                                  AT&T
                            The Last Phreak?
                            ----------------
                             Vol. 1 Aug 8-93

   Could it be?  No more Phreaking!!  Yes fellow hackers, after viewing
   this text file you may change your mind all together about the sport of
   phreaking.  AT&T has introduced a new digital phone switch system which
   will revolutionize recognition of calls.  AT&T now has the ability to
   to catch a phreaker as soon as your call hits one of AT&T's many
   switches.  You may have noticed your calls accidentaly being diverted
   to other households.  This is due to the installation of the new AT&T
   digital Switching system.

   With this new system, AT&T will have all calling information up front
   instead of having to call it up from an outer terminal.  All information
   will be displayed and stored in a computer network.  Information such as
   the number you're dialing from, dialing to, time of dial, duration of
   time between each digit dialed ect...  You're instantly CNA'd as soon
   as your call hits the switch (DAMN!).  The information is then stored.

   In our area, this system has just been introduced and will be fully
   installed with in the next month.  After August, most area's will have
   this new digital system installed in every area.  MCI and AT&T are
   currently debating the format of programming on the system.

   You may have noticed the increase in phreakers being caught.  This is
   due to the new system.  Im sure this new system will have its bugs,
   but once it is perfected, there will not be a need for Jeff Dial Tones!!

   This system will give a new name to ANI (Automatic Number
   Identification). This file is not fully accurate, all the info has not
   been completely uncovered. 75% of this 1993 Phreak file has been based
   on fact, 25% on opinion. Watch for Volume II for more info on this
   system. If u have any info that was not mentioned in this file contact
   The Duelist on Jyer Inc.  And if u dont have the # your LAME!!!!!
----------------------------------------------------------------
