                 

   
                      /-<  The Beginners Phreaking guide  >-\

                        Brought to you by concerned phreak :


                                `-_> Jimmy'z <_-'


                                   Volume 1.0 






Introduction :

        Happy new year, and welcome to a new decade of phreaking!  Although
the phreaking world has taken a drastic dive, since ESS is now commonplace, I
believe that with the superior knowledge of the phreaking community, we can win
the fight for phree fone calls.  

        These days, a phreak must be smart, trained, diciplined and most of all
a phreak must remain noble.  

        I hope you veteran phreaks enjoy this phile, and to you aspiring 
phreakers out there, pay attention and follow these instructions.  They are the
"right" way to be doing things these days... Since the latest philes about 
phreaking are around five years old.  And very out dated at that. 




Getting started :

        One might ask, "How do I get started in the phreak world?"  Well, the
answer is very simple.  One thing you can do very easily is to scam MaBell out
of twenty cents.  To my experiance, the following project can only be done on a
Pacific Bell fortress phone (pay phone.)  You know, the ones with the orange 
and blue instructions on them.


  Project:   Getting phree local calls from a PacBell fortress

     Materials needed :

            a)  One nail : Approxamately 2 inches long and 2/8 inches wide
            b)  A friend (Hmmm, may be hard to come by with some of you guys.)
            c)  The desire to have the power of free fone calls!
            d)  One Pacific Bell Fortress Phone   

     Procedure:

        This is fairly simple, although I suggest reading my notes and hepful
hints about doing this.  This procedure becomes more of an art after a while.  
You see, it takes just the right amount of pressure.

        Ok, here it is.  Take the nail, and insert it into the center hole of 
the microphone  (The mouthpiece.)  It should fit in nicely with slight pressure
  Meanwhile, your phriend is looking out for any people that might put a damper
on your plans.  Ok, heres the crucial point of this project... With controlled
strokes, use the handset as a sort of a hammer to pound the nail into the
mouthpiece.  I suggest using the side of the phone as an 'anvil.'  Keep tapping
the nail into the mouthpiece untill 'something' gives way and enables you to 
insert the nail into the mouthpiece more freely.  

        After you have done this, you can test your handiwork by hanging up, 
and while touching the nail (that is now inserted into the mothpiece) to the
silver metal that surrounds the keypad... dial any seven digit number.  You 
should be now holding a *two way* conversation between someone.  You did good!
And now, you can consider yourself a REAL phreak.  Not just aother one of the
masses of code abusers.


Technical Explanation :

        If you have just begun into the wonderful world of phreaking, then this
may confuse you somewhat, but just bear with this section of the phile, as it 
is very important in becoming a phreak, you see... A phreak should not only use
the phone system for his personal endavors, but he should also *understand* the
telephone network as well...  Ok, what is happening inside the phone when you 
touch the nail to the keypad is that the phone is being grounded.  Thats simple
enough.  Before, you had to enter a dime.  You can attest to this grounding, by
becoming the ground yourself.  Simply pickup the reciever, place your thumb 
over the nail, and with your other hand, hang the phone up.  You should feel 
a shocking sensation in your wrist that is making contact witht the nail.  I 
have foud this to be extremely painful, and doing this is only reccomended to 
be done as a joke to phriends.

        This 'nail' method may be used in conjunction with a green box, to get
long distance calls... All you green boxers out there will no longer have to 
enter a nickel before you play your tones... Just Touch the nail to the pad, 
dial, and play your tones while the "The call you have made..." recording 
is going,  And then, an electronic womans voic should then say, "Thank You." 
And, thus... Your call being connected.  

        For all of you beginners, who have no idea of what a green box is, or 
does, is this.:  A green box is simply a micro-recorder that has a recording of
quarters dropping into a telephone on it.  You see, when a coin is put into a 
pay phone, the equipment sends a series of "controll tones" to the telephone 
office.(By chance, they can be heard over the handset.)  These tones are like 
"proof" that you put your money in.  So, what one might do, is :  Go to an 
arcade  and get about $2.00 worth of quarters.  Then go find your payphone.  
Put your radio shack telephone amplifyer over the earpiece, and plug your
micro - casette recoreder into the MIC output.  Start dropping money into the 
phone, then after you are finished... Hit coin return.  Then go back (to the 
arcade) and play your two bucks worth of video games, since thats the only 
real thing you can do with quarters these days.




Notes :


        As I have previously mentioned, this procedure becomes more of a 
skill, and an art as you become more adept in this technique.  Keep trying 
different means of getting that nail at *just* the right depth.  As you 
will soon find out, the microphone of the handset will sometimes be destroyed
in the prcess, in that case, move on to the next phone (very seldomly will one
find a 'lone phone booth.')




Closing:


        In closing, I would like to recognise a few people for helping to 
perfect this technique.  Dream Warrior, Master Of servants and a few 
others were there when this all happened. 

        I hope this file taught all of you beginners out there something 
about the telephone system, and please... by all means feel phree to ask
me any questions pertaining to this project.



Forward:

        Keep your eyes open for the next volume of beginners phreaking, 
I will try to explain how codes may be used to a phreaks advantage, and
the do's and don'ts of code hacking/phreaking.

	For later issues and constant updates on hacking, phreaking and
anarchy, Call Hotel California BBS at (618)-258-0939




                        File completed 1/19/90

                       Written exclusively By   :

                         >< Jimmy'z >< [213]



