
           %MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%
           %MWI%                                       %MWI%
           %MWI%        -=> MICRO WORLD INC <=-        %MWI%
           %MWI%                PRESENTS:              %MWI%
           %MWI%                                       %MWI%
           %MWI%           The Technical Book          %MWI%
           %MWI%              Of Phreaking             %MWI%
           %MWI%                                       %MWI%
           %MWI%         For The Master Phreak to      %MWI%
           %MWI%           Those Just Learning         %MWI%
           %MWI%             Some Definitions          %MWI%
           %MWI%                                       %MWI%
           %MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%MWI%

   Created during January and Febuary 1989
    v1.0

Introdution to the Article
    File One (of four)

    This file was just to be a short set of definitions for those of you who
don't know all the phreaking terms.  This was requested by a few people on a
small 312 board called The Magnetic Field Elite (312-966-0708, call, board has
potential) like Th e Don.  But I have decided against making this small file
that is common in many places but instead to make something that I have never
seen before.  Not just a common file but one of high technical use.  With a
printout of this you will never need to mis sout on a definition again.  But
that's not all.  The file will discuss, indepth, the working of each of these
operations below.  If you are viewing this file simply for the sake of finding
one meaning I suggest that you get the entire thing and then never need to call
and view phreak files again.



Topic 1:  The Phone/Modem

    Scince phreaking is impossible without a phone or modem you I will start
with the most important and most complex part of phreaking.  The Phone.  Now,
the phone is a device that transfer sounds as sound enters a receiver, is
transfered to an amoun t of voltage, sent tcall goes out.  The
station determines the units per minute and start billing as soon as the called
phone answers.All calls are automaticaly one minute long.  If you hit a one as
the first digit you dial the phone recignizes this as a long distance call and
sends you to either the At&t switching station or to another long distance
service if you have chose to use other than At&t.
    If you are using a At&t the call goes through the long distance switching
station where unit per minute is determined and then it is refered to the
number you called.  The call may be slowed down depending on how many times the
switching station c hanges between you and the place you are calling.  If it
changes between ESS and X-Bar (described below) one it would go through fast.
If it changed between them 50 times it would be a very slow call going through.
Plus the sound quality may decrease bu t that is not a fact, just an
understanding I have come to when callign long distance with At&t.
    If you are calling through any other service, such as MCI, Alnet, Teleco,
US Sprint or any of the other endless companies, then things are not the same
for long distance calls.
    You call first goes to the company you call through and price of call is
determined by any of the ways a company determines price.  The call then goes
out through the lines to the long distance companie's station nearest to the
number you dialed a nd tres to go though.  If the number is too far away from a
station you may get a "The number you have dialed cannot be reached from your
calling area."
    Thus, you have the basic information of how call goes out.Now to get to
phreaking and the real reson you read this file.



Topic 3:  The Long Distance Company and Codes.

    The way of using a different long distance company or not paying a quarter
when calling from a payphone.  Using the phone card or the code.
Names for these numbers:
950's
800's
Extenders.
PBX's
950 ports
Port
Code port
(Company name) port

    The above mentioned names are the phreaks lifeline.  They are places where
you call and enter a code, then the area code of the place you want to call and
finally the number for the place you want to call.  When the code is entered it
is checked i f it is valid and then the person how owns the code pays for the
call.  If the code is not valid you normaly get a message saying that the code
you entered is not valid.
    When a call goes through it is the same as a normal long distance call
except that it is charged to the owner of the card.
    Some places may require that you enter a nine or a one before you enter the
code.
    Now, the phreak uses these places by calling them over and over again until
they get a code.  But they do this with a computer and a program such as
Hack-a-Matic, Hacking Construction Set (often called HCS), Hack This Buddy,
Intellihacker (Old), C at-(and then a name, for the Apple Cat.Has to many
names to list), and some others.  These are all Apple programs but there are
also code hackers for the Commodor 64, 128, Amiga, IBM (of course) and so on.
Most computers have them.
    One thing I have found useful is to use a Radio Shack portable computer
with a built in modem and hack from other houses, this is much safer.  Secrity
in these companies run from really tough (MCI) to sad (like the places that try
to scare off hackers with tape recordings).  950 ports in the ESS area are set
up to trace and could do so very easily but for some reson they are against it.
Possibly the time and modey to cheack the calls and pay for tracing.  Places
have gotton tougher though, if three people get busted off a number in one week
and this has never happened before then you can almost be sure that they have
stepped up security and that it is time to use a new port.


Now I will discuss some of the things used by the Phreak.

Topic 4: The Loop

    Loops, although they may seem fun they are really rather useless.  They
work as follows.
    Two numbers are looped together.  Usually they are almost the same just a
digit different from one another.  If you call the lower number you will wait a
few secounds and then hear a 1000mhz.  tone.  If you call the higher number you
will hear nothing.  If you can one number (dosen't matter which) and someone
else calls the other number you will be able to talk to each other.  The
purpose of these is to test trunk lines.  This way they could make sure there
was no break in each trunk.
    Now the old purpose for loops was that they where free to call so one
person would call one and another would call the other and they would get to
talk for free.  Also, one person might call one number and just wait and talk
to whoever called the other number.  Like a two line bridge.
    Today you cannot call these without being charged because the phone company
caught on.  But you can split a phone call with these so if there is a loop
between you and a person you want to talk to you can only pay for half by
calling the loop.  And the phone company dosen't care because either way they
get their money.
    The billing service for a loop is one all by itself, not like normal local
calling and for this reson I might almost belive the rumor that Blue Box tones
can be used to call loops.
    The loops billing service didn't exist awhile back so a call to one was
free.  Now, if you call this new billing system picks it up.  But the loops
billing system is just something that At&t scraped together and there are most
likly some holes in the system (like not recording blue box tone generation
numbers).


Topic 5: The Diverter

    The diverter has been a very simple, yet incredibly usefulthing through the
years.To use one you must call, after hours and let someone answer the phone,
don't answer them, let them hang up and get a faint dialtone.  Then you dial
again and call from the diverter.
    Before, you could use a diverter and call through it.  The you would only
be charged for the call to the diverter, not the one after it.  That bill went
to the diverter itself.  But they fix this problem easily and now you still get
charged if you are in the ESS area.
    Also before, you could use a diverter to call a number that traces and
instead of being traced to your number it is traced to the diverter.  But ESS
eliminated that too.
    But you can still use a diverter to call hard to reach numbers.  Like if
you called a place and it gave you a "The number you have dial cannot be reach
from your calling area" then if you knew of a diverter in the area of the
number you could call through it to the unreachable number and get through.
The way a diverter works is after hours when you call a place the call is
forwarded to another place.Then, when you don't answer the person at the other
place hangs up and your call tries to disconnect from the forwared number and
you end up at the diverter with it's dialtone.




 Hope this file was of some use to you all.
       If you want to see more like it leave me E-mail
 on
  these great boards!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ripco -        (312)-528-5020
TFBII -        (312)-945-3665
The Blue Fire
    BBS        (312)-377-????  sysop: The Micro Master
The Metal AE   (201)-879-6668  entry: Kill
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
To those of you who are new to phreaking and modeming I really hope to have
helped.  The modem world is a great place to be.In all my time here I have only
found one person that I don't like (The Belgarion De Riviara).  Although he
and his friends pestered me alittle to much I hold him alone responsible, not
his friends, as friends seem to follow their own.

öööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööööö

  Distributed in part by:

   Skeleton Crue  415-376-8060  located out of Moraga, California.
	 !!Get on the band wagon before it RUNS YOU DOWN!!
The very LAST bastion of Abusive Thought in all of the Suburbian West Coast...
			      (CH&AOS)