
     This response was prepared in response to a question about where
     the membership functions and rules of a fuzzy logic unit are
     stored in the assembly code generated by Fide.

     Aptronix has a methodology we use in the generation of the assembly code. 
     We call this methodology TVFI which stands for the Truth Value
     Flow Inference method.  This is a proprietary method which was
     developed by the Fuzzy Logic experts at Aptronix to permit faster
     execution of the assembly code as well as the most efficient use
     of memory possible.
     
     There are three major steps that occur during the generation
     of assembly code.  First, FIL,  (fuzzy inference language) is a
     high level language that allows humans to easily define a fuzzy
     inference unit.  This language is designed to be a user-friendly
     interface for humans.  Secondly, the FIL source code is converted
     into the format of the standard data structure of Aptronix.  This
     data structure is a medium between the easy human interface of
     FIL and assembly code.  The data structure is designed to be 
     compatible with hardware and has a format such that it can
     easily generate code for almost any target chip.  Thus, as FIL
     is the interface that allows humans to work easily with fuzzy
     logic, the standard data structre allows hardware to use fuzzy
     logic easily.
     
     Finally, the FIU (fuzzy inference unit) stored in the
     standard data structure format is converted into assembly code. 
     It is impossible to trace directly from this assembly code line
     for line to the source code written in the FIL. This is because
     different parts of rules and membership functions may be combined
     as part of the TVFI methodology. We have the capability to
     optimize the target- specific code generated completely for speed
     or completely for efficient use of memory depending upon your
     application.  Custom RTC (Real Time code convertors) can be
     designed by Aptronix upon customer request.
     	
     
     To summarize, the assembly code generated by Fide is
     optimized for the fuzzy logic aspect.  We know how to optimize
     the code because the Aptronix engineers have used fuzzy logic in
     applications for many years and are experts on fuzzy logic and
     its applications.  Thus, there is no way to optimize assembly
     code generated from a fuzzy inference unit more than with the
     TVFI methodology of Aptronix and the standard data structure. 
     The individual instructions for the target chip contained in our
     assembly code can be modified for optimization however. 
     (Although this should be done carefully).  For instance, three
     instructions executing a load and multiply sequence can be
     replaced by one instruction accomplishing the same sequence. 
     This does not interfere with the assembly code for the fuzzy
     inference unit. 
     
     
     Scott Irwin
     Software Engineer
     Customer Support

                                                                                                                                                             







