
Subject: NEW CANADIAN LOW POWER LICENSING POLICY

[Note: This was received by the moderator of rec.radio.broadcasting and was
felt to be of sufficient intereste to cross-post. Bill]



        [In Canada] Non-profit broadcasters have gained an advantage
when applying for Low Power radio allotments in congested areas with a
new CRTC Policy announced last summer.

        Public Notice 1993-95, entitled "A Licensing Policy for Low Power
Radio Broadcasting" establishes guidelines for the allotment of
unprotected allotments of less than 50 watts ERP.   This policy does not
affect licensees or applications for protected class allotments of greater
than 50 watts. 

        The Comission initiated a review of Low Power policies in 1991 in
response to the growing requests for LP frequencies, especially for non-
conventional services in congested areas.  The NCRA's comments to the
Commission calling for preferential treatment for conventional non-profit
services and severe limits on non-conventional services was well
reflected in the new policies.

        The notice establishes two tiers of priority services for low power
frequncies in congested areas.  This means that some types of services
will have priority over others when the commission makes licensing
decisions.  The Commission notes congested areas to currently include the
Montreal area, Southern Ontario and the lower mainland / Island of British
Columbia.

        The new heirarchy of service places conventional not for profit radio
services (community, campus, native, etc.) at the top of the first tier,
followed by originating private broadcasters, local private rebroadcasters
and distant rebroadcasters (including CBC rebroads). The second tier will
include non-profit public information services (i.e. traffic/weather info
services) and commercial announcement services (real estate / talking
billboards).

        The Commission also established a policy of issuing a call for
competiting applications upon receipt of any application for a low power
drop in allotment in areas where frequencies are scarce.  This will include
applications from non-profit broadcasters. The commission noted that, in
addition to the priority heirarchy, the duration of the proposed service,
the proposed power and the availability of alternate delivery means may
be used in assessing competing applications.

        The new policy also places a general requirement on all LP licensees
to adhere to all existing policies for other services. However, the
Commission notes that individual applications for exemptions
from specific policies will be dealt with on a case by case basis.


