SB DX @ ALLBBS $OPDX.148
Ohio/Penn DX Bulletin No. 148
The Ohio/Penn Dx PacketCluster
DX Bulletin No. 148
BID: $OPDX.148
February 21, 1994
Editor Tedd Mirgliotta, KB8NW
Provided by BARF-80 BBS Cleveland, Ohio
Online at 216-237-8208

Thanks to the Northern Ohio Amateur Radio Society, Northern Ohio DX
Association, Ohio/Penn PacketCluster Network, ARRL DX Bulletin, DL7VEE &
DXNL, DF4RD, ON7GB, VP2ML, NT2X, K4CEF & Southeastern Cluster Group,
WA6YOU and AH9B for the following DX information.

3Y0PI, PETER I ISLAND (UPDATE). (ed.- A DXpedition of "EXCELLENCE") Now
that the 3Y0PI operation is history, there is only one word to describe
this DXpedition, "SUPER". Making 60,000 QSOs, the Peter I DXpedition team
(Ralph/K0IR, Tony/WA4JQS, Bob/N4GCK, Bob/KK6EK, Terry/W6MKB, Willy/HB9AHL,
Peter/ON6TT and Martin Tosseyn, a Belgian, who is a non-ham, but acted as
campsite manager looking after the tents, food and generators.) should
be commmended for a well organized operation despite set backs, such as
being hit with major snow storms, equipment being damaged during their
landing on the island and the storms freezing generators and damaging
antennas. But members of the team were technical enough to repair some
things so all operations were not lost. The operation has officially
gone QRT February 16th, but as this bulletin was being written during
the weekend some of the team remains on the island. Extremely bad weather
has hampered efforts to get the team off the island. A fax sent to
WA4JQS's mother, Ada, from the Russian ship which is picking up the
3Y0PI operators indicated the following: At 2315Z February 18, only two
operators (K0IR and HB9AHL) had made it to the ship via only one
helicopter run.

1. Very slow evacuation from the island because of bad weather
(too much fog). Helicopter flights very risky and difficult.
2. Two operators are already on board the Russian vessel. Only one
flight was possible yet.
3. Everybody is OK and waiting for better weather.
Once the 3Y team is safely aboard the Russian ship, they will be taken
to Puntas Arenas, Chile to take flight home, instead of a long sea trip
home. (UPDATE February 20th at 0001z: Operators still on the island and
they are now in a middle of a tremendous blizzard. Currently, very little
equipment has been taken to the Russian ship and all are doing fine. In
case of extreme emergency, they will evacuate the island leaving all
equipment behind.) (Another UPDATE just before  going to print: A fax
sent Sunday morning indicated that 5 of the operators and half of the
equipment from the DXpedition are now safely aboard the Russian ship.
Tony, WA4JQS, and 3 others operators still remain on the island, but
all are expected to be completely off the island by 1700z Sunday.)
OH YEA! There is one more group to be commended during the 3Y0PI
operation and that would be the amateurs (DXers/Non-Dxers) all over the
world. The amateurs of the world were on their best behavior, EVER,
during this DXpedition. There were no real major problems of deliberate
interference or an overabundance of policemen on patrol (only a couple
of minor infractions). This can be attributed to the amount of 3Y0PI
stations operating at the same time and the amount of spectrum they used.
It is a shame that most DXpeditions are not well thought out (ORGANIZED)
and planned like the 3Y0PI.

HS, SAMUI ISLAND - IOTA AS-101 (THAILAND). A group of Thailand amateurs
will activate this island sometime in March, no specific dates were
mentioned. Samui Island is located in the Malay Peninsula North East
group and has not been active for two years. During the operation the
operators will pay special attention to the WARC bands. Operators are
only allowed to operate on these bands with a special licences and can
only obtain these licences for special occasions (such as an IOTA
activity).

KH8, AMERICAN SAMOA. Andy, G4ZVJ, will be active from February 16 thru
March 16, as AH8F. He will be active mostly on CW, only little SSB and
RTTY.

KP5, DESECHEO ISLAND. Bad news! The ARRL DX Buletin and other sources
report that the upcoming DXpedition for the SSB weekend of the ARRL
International DX Contest has been cancelled. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service has denied landing permission because a group of Haitian
squatters are on the island. The Coast Guard was unsuccessful in
removing them, and reports are that the U.S. Navy may be called to
remove the group. Until this situation is resolved, no landing permission
can be given.  AB4JI and crew hope to make last minute arrangements to
operate from another island.

PY, BRAZIL. PY0A and PY0B will be active from Abrolhos Archipeligo (IOTA
SA-019) from February 23-28. This island is located in the Bahia State
South group and will only count for Brazil. Activity will be CW/SSB on
10-80 meters. QSL to Roberto Stuckert PT1GTI, P.O. Box 09647, 70001-970,
Brasilia DF Brasil.

T5, SOMALIA. Ron, WA6YOU, will be active from Mogadishu from February
24th thru March 4th (Information was not clear. It may be March 24th
thru April 4th). He will sign T5YOU and will be active on a time
available basis from 1800-2000z daily. Due to location constraints, his
rig will be an Icom 735 and a dipole antenna. Ron will attempt to operate
on the usual DX splits on 15/20 meters SSB only. QSL to WA6YOU direct.

TI9, COCOS ISLAND (UPDATE). Members of OKDXA and the Young Gunners DX
Foundation are in the final stages of planning a May 94 DXpedition to
Cocos Island. The trip will last for 10 days beginning around the 2nd
week of May. Transportation has been obtained, permission to land and
operate has also been granted. This will be a full-scale, multi-national
effort with about 12 ops. There will be six stations, including one
dedicated satellite and another to RTTY. Heavy emphasis will be given
to CW and WARC bands. The co-leaders of the team are Javier/AH6MM and
Craig/AH9B. Other operators include V73C, AD1S, TI2JJP, XE2CQ, NH6UY,
N5MIH and Dr. Pete/N0AFW. QSLs will be handled by OKDXA, Box 88 Wellston,
OK  74881.

WORLD NEWS: A rumor is circulating around 20 meters that Voice of
America had a report on the air that all BY hams have been rounded up
and sent to labor camps. Apparently, they were charged for "listening to
unauthorized frequencies". No more info is available on this one, but
there has not been any BY QSN reports on the Ohio/Penn Network since
February 1st. Hope it is not true. (This information from KN4QS.)
According to Ed, NT2X, the Reuter news agency had a report on the
Spralty Islands (which are contested by several nations). The report
states that two of the countries which contest the islands, China (PRC)
and Taiwan (ROC), will have a joint scientific expedition that will
explore the Spratly Archipelago. A Chinese oceanographic vessel will
carry a team of scientists, including 9 ROC citizens. This is a first
such joint trip since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949. There
were no details when all this takes place, and obviously, this is not
amateur radio related, but perhaps the BV and BY stations may find a
way to put a different twist on a Spratly DXpedition in the future.

XF4, REVILLA GIGEDO. Hector, XE1BEF, and others plan to activate XF0C,
from February 18 thru March 4. Activity will be all bands 160-6 meters
on CW/SSB/RTTY. QSL via XE1BEF.

ZS0, PENGUIN ISLANDS. Just a reminder to begin looking for Baldur, DJ6SI,
and others as ZS0X, February 23-28. This will probably be the last ZS0
operation to count for DXCC. Word has it that Baldur and crew will stay
after the 28th and use V5 callsigns.

FAX YOUR DX INFORMATION NOW! Faxing is available Mon/Wed/Fri from
0430-2330z only. The number is 216-237-8208 and the FAX card is sharing
the same phone line as BARF-80 BBS using a data/fax/phone switch.

Excerpts and distribution of The OPDX Bulletin are granted as long as
OPDX/BARF80 receive credit. To contribute DX info, call BARF-80 BBS at
216-237-8208 and leave a message with the Sysop or send email to:
aq474@cleveland.freenet.edu via BitNet: aq474%cleveland.freenet@cunyvm
or PRODIGY:DFJH48A or via packet KB8NW @ WA8BXN.OH.USA.NA
/EX
