
   Guide to Shortwave Radio:


This posting contains answers to the following questions:

o What is shortwave radio?
o Where can I find broadcasts by Radio Foobar?
o Where can I find a list of broadcasts in the English language?
o What kind of receiver should I get?
o Where can I get a shortwave radio?
o Could you explain the frequencies used?  What's the 40 meter band? etc.
o What is SINPO/SIO?
o Why can't I receive all of the broadcasts listed in Monitoring
  Times/WRTH/Passport/etc.?
o What are some books or other resources that can help me get started?
o Where can I find further information?


o What is shortwave radio?

>From a purely technical point of view, shortwave radio refers to those
frequencies between 3 and 30 MHz.  Their main characteristic is their ability
to "propagate" for long distances, making possible such worldwide
communications as international broadcasting and coordination of long-distance
shipping.

>From a social point of view, shortwave radio is a method of facilitating
worldwide dissemination of information and opinion, and a way to find out what
the rest of the world thinks is important.  Many countries broadcast to the
world in English, making it easy to find out what a given country's position is
on those things it finds important.  Shortwave radio can also provide a way to
eavesdrop on the everyday workings of international politics and commerce.


o Where can I find broadcasts by Radio Foobar?

The World Radio TV Handbook is the standard reference for this sort of
information.  The WRTH provides SWLs (shortwave listeners) and DXers 
(listeners specializing in distant [DX] and weak stations) worldwide with
virtually everything they need on frequencies, schedules and addresses.  It
comes out annually, right about the first of the year, with an optional
update magazine throughout the year.  It covers virtually every shortwave
station in the world, and many of the medium wave (AM), FM, and television
stations as well.  The body of the book is a listing of stations by country,
with a cross-reference in the back by frequency.  It's available from any
radio store dealing in shortwave.  You can also contact the WRTH through
their publishers, Billboard.

World Radio TV Handbook
ISBN 0-8230-5921-9

The past five years have seen competition of a sort for the WRTH, in the form
of Passport to World Band Radio.  Passport's main section is a graph/table of
what's on the air, by frequency.  There are few addresses, but the beginning of
the book is filled with articles of interest to the beginner.  There is also a
comprehensive review section of shortwave receivers currently available, one of
the few places all this information can be found in one place.  The book is
more useful for identifying a station you've already tuned in than for
searching out a particular transmission; the WRTH is useful at both, however,
rendering the purchase of this book not essential.  It can still be worthwhile,
though, especially for beginners who won't be put off by the "gee whiz, look
what we can listen to" tone of some of the articles.  The book is unabashedly
an advocate of making the hobby of "World Band Radio" accessible to people who
wouldn't have participated before the advent of good, cheap portables.

For utility band (non-broadcast transmissions) listeners, there are a couple
of books that perform much the same function as the above two books, although
due to the nature of such point-to-point communication, not with the same
sense of definitiveness.

Confidential Frequency List
Published by Gilfer Shortwave

The Shortwave Directory
Published by Grove Enterprises


o Where can I find a list of broadcasts in the English language?

The World Radio TV Handbook has a list of English Language Broadcasts,
starting on page 536 of the 1991 edition.  Unfortunately, since the WRTH
only comes out once a year (they do have a quarterly magazine to update
the book; information is available in the WRTH), the data tend to go out
of date fairly quickly.  There are a number of sources for current lists:

-Monitoring Times magazine carries a listing every month, one of the best
arguments I know of for subscribing (it's what keeps me on their rolls....)

-The North American Shortwave Association (NASWA) periodically publishes a
complete listing in their bulletin, The Journal, sent to all members monthly;
each month there are updates to the list.

-Tom Sundstrom, sysop of the Pinelands BBS in New Jersey (609-859-1910 modem)
offers a subscription service with constantly updated electronic versions of
his listing (which are also the source for the NASWA listings).  It comes in
dBASE III format, compressed using the .ARC format; dBASE III is the format
used by Tom's Shortwave Database program for MS-DOS computers.
 

o What kind of receiver should I get?

That depends largely on what kind of listening you expect to do.  There are two
or three basic kinds of radios.  The first is the travel portable.  These
usually cost between $30 and $250.  Their main characteristic is their
extremely small size, making them most suitable for the person who spends a lot
of time on airplanes.  They do an adequate job of receiving the major
broadcasters, such as the BBC, the Voice of America, Radio Nederland, etc.
They are generally not capable of receiving hams, or utility transmissions, and
they do not do a good job on weak stations.  Many of them also lack frequency
coverage beyond the major international broadcasting bands.  As such, they
cannot receive the channels outside the defined bands that often provide
clearer reception (due to lessened interference) of such stations as the BBC,
Kol Israel, and the Voice of Iran.

There are two very low cost (under $50) SW receivers that are the subject of
frequent inquiries in rec.radio.shortwave: the DAK MR-101s, and a Chinese-
built unit that is sold under (at least) the names Pomtrex, MCE, TEK, Windsor,
and Citizen.  The DAK, despite its digital tuning, has received generally
negative reviews. The Pomtrex, which is an analog unit, has had much greater
acceptance by users.  Since the unit is sold under many names, it is best
identified by its appearance: it is about the size of a large paperback, with
a whip antenna, dc in and earphone jacks, and a carrying strap.  4 AA
batteries go in the back.  The left front is speaker grille and controls/
displays are on the right.  Controls are on/off, SW/LW/AM/FM select, SW 1-6
band select, volume, and hi/lo treble.  An analog tuning knob sticks out the
upper right side.  Displays are a tuning LED and a multiband slide rule
frequency display.  Sensitivity is excellent; the ability to separate
stations, especially when one of them is powerful, is poor.  Strong AM
stations will "bleed" over into the SW bands.  Despite this, the radio is
quite suitable for tuning through the bands to see what is there before
investing in a "real" receiver.  The unit has been available from a variety
of low-cost outlets; the most consistent source of supply is Radio for the
People at (904) 397-4145.

The second category of radios overlaps with the first, and consists of
slightly larger portables.  Common among this category are radios like the
Sangean ATS-803A, a fine starter radio with many capabilities for the
inexpensive price of $200.  These radios often have digital readout, making
it easier to know which frequency you are tuned to, and such features as dual
conversion (which decreases the possibility of your radio receiving spurious
signals from other frequencies), audio filters (which allow you to decrease
interference from stations on adjacent frequencies) and beat frequency
oscillators (which allow you to decode morse code and single sideband (SSB)
transmissions on the ham and utility bands).  The top range of this kind of
radio includes technically sophisticated radios like the Sony ICF-2010, Sony
ICF-SW77, and Grundig Satellit 500, which contain innovative circuitry to
lock on to a given signal and allow you to choose the portion of the signal
you want to listen to, depending on which part gets the least interference.
If you follow the newsgroup for any amount of time, you're bound to notice
some discussion of the relative merit of these features versus their cost
(about double that of the Sangean radio.)  Many of these radios can be and
have been used to receive distant and weak stations from a number of
countries; they're also suitable for listening to programs from the major
broadcasters.

The third category of receivers is the tabletop receiver.  These receivers cost
from $600 upward, with a concentration of radios around $1000.  These radios
naturally contain many more features than the portables, and are used by
serious hobbyists who specialize in rare and weak stations.  Current radios in
this group include the ICOM R-71A, the Kenwood R-5000, the Japan Radio
Corporation NRD-525, the JRC NRD-535D, and the Drake R-8.  These radios can be
very complex to operate, and are generally not recommended for the beginner.
Radios from the first two categories can give a beginner a very good idea of
what's on the air and where their interests lie, at which point one of these
radios may be an appropriate acquisition.  Strangely enough, not all of these
radios contain the kind of innovative circuitry that are part of less
expensive portables like the Sony 2010 mentioned above.  Newer radios, such
as the NRD-535D and the R-8 are starting to include such capabilities.

There are many sources for detailed information on specific radios, most of it
provided by two groups.  Larry Magne, who publishes the Passport to World Band
Radio, includes a review of virtually all shortwave radios currently available
in that publication.  For more extensive reviews of selected receivers, he
offers detailed "white papers", which run between ten and twenty pages or so.
Magne also contributes a monthly review column to Monitoring Times.

The other main source for equipment reviews is a group centered around Radio
Nederland and the WRTH in Holland.  The WRTH, as mentioned above, has a review
section covering mainly new receivers, but also contains a table with ratings
of most currently available radios.  Radio Nederland also offers a free booklet
with receiver reviews.

There are also two books published by Gilfer Shortwave in New Jersey that cover
the subject of receivers, called *Radio Receivers, Chance or Choice*, and *More
Radio Receivers, Chance or Choice*.


o Where can I get a shortwave radio?

Many stereo stores and discount chains carry the Sony and Panasonic lines of
receivers; the people there, however, generally don't know much about
shortwave, and you're not likely to find many accessories there.  Mail order
stereo sources like J&R Music or 47th Street Photo in New York generally give
the cheapest prices, but have the same problem.  More knowledgeable, and
falling roughly between the two in price, are the mail order houses that
specialize in ham and/or shortwave radio.  Many of them offer catalogs that
contain useful tips for the beginner.  Addresses for some of the better-known
and respected businesses can be found at the end of this article.


o Could you explain the frequencies used?  What's the 49 meter band? etc.

As you tune around, you'll notice certain kinds of signals tend to be
concentrated together.  Different services are allocated different frequency
ranges.  International broadcasters, for instance, are assigned to ten
frequency bands up and down the dial.  These are:

3900-4000 kHz (75 meter band)         13600-13800 kHz (22 meter band)
5950-6200 kHz (49 meter band)         15100-15600 kHz (19 meter band)
7100-7300 kHz (41 meter band)         17550-17900 kHz (16 meter band)
9500-9900 kHz (31 meter band)         21450-21850 kHz (13 meter band)
11650-12050 kHz (25 meter band)       25600-26100 kHz (11 meter band)

In general, lower frequencies (below 10000 kHz) are better received at night
and for a few hours surrounding dawn and dusk, and higher frequencies (15000
kHz and up) are better received during the day.  The frequencies in between are
transitional, with reception being possible most times.  In practice, these
guidelines are not absolute, with reception on high frequencies being possible
at night, and lower frequencies can provide decent medium-distance reception
during the day.

Hams (who have their own newsgroups, rec.radio.amateur.*) and point-to-point,
or utility communications, fill most of the rest of the frequencies.  The
Confidential Frequency List and The Shortwave Guide mentioned above can provide
more information on what can be heard in these areas, as can utility loggings
in magazines like Monitoring Times and Popular Communications, and in club
bulletins.


o What is SINPO/SIO?

The SINPO code is a way of quantifying reception conditions in a five-digit
code, especially for use in reception reports to broadcasters.  The code
covers Signal strength, Interference (from other stations), Noise (from
atmospheric conditions), Propagation disturbance (or Fading, in the SINFO 
code), andOverall.  The code is as follows:

(S)ignal       (I)nterference   (N)oise        (P)ropagation   (O)verall
 5 excellent    5 none           5 none         5 none          5 excellent
 4 good         4 slight         4 slight       4 slight        4 good
 3 fair         3 moderate       3 moderate     3 moderate      3 fair
 2 poor         2 severe         2 severe       2 severe        2 poor
 1 barely aud.  1 extreme        1 extreme      1 extreme       1 unusable

In recent years, many broadcasters have tried to steer listeners away from
the SINPO code and toward the simpler SIO code.  SIO deletes the extremes
(1 and 5) and the noise and propagation categories, which were confusing
to too many people to be useful.  In sending reports to stations other than
large international broadcasters who are likely to understand the codes, it
is better to simply describe reception conditions in words.


o Why can't I receive all of the broadcasts listed in Monitoring
Times/WRTH/Passport/etc.?

This is a fact of life on shortwave.  Because of propagation, antenna headings,
the kind of radio you have, your local environment, etc., you're never going to
be able to hear all the things you find in a list.  The lists in Monitoring
Times, etc., aren't lists of what's being heard in a general location.  They're
lists of everything that you could possibly hear, from a daily powerhouse like
the BBC to a once or twice a year rarity like Bhutan.  They're listed because
you *might* hear them, depending on where you are and the given circumstances,
not because they're necessarily being heard outside of their immediate target
area.

If you want lists of what is actually being heard in something roughly
analogous to "your area", the best source for these are the logging sections 
of the bulletins of the SWL/DX clubs.  You might want to sample a few club
bulletins to see if they'll help.  The bulletins also offer articles from
experts on many facets of the hobby.


o What are some books or other resources that can help me get started?

There are a number of books dealing with the basics of the hobby.  The most
recent book, one that has been getting good reviews, is *The Shortwave
Listening Guidebook* by Harry Helms.  The book should be easily available
from most shortwave specialty outlets.  It is also being published directly
by Mr. Helms, and is therefore likely to stay in print for a while.

Due to the extreme difficulty in finding copies of Gerry Dexter's *Shortwave
Listening With The Experts*, the recommendation of this book has been 
removed from this article.


o Where can I find further information?

There are a number of hobby publications available.  Two glossy magazines which
cover the hobby are Monitoring Times and Popular Communications.  They both
cover a number of aspects of the hobby, including international broadcasts,
scanning, pirate radio, QSLing, and Utility broadcasting.  Monitoring Times
also contains listings of broadcasts and programs in English, which gives it a
slight edge.  PopComm, however, is the one you're more likely to find on your
local newsstand.

There are many clubs catering to the hobbyist, many of which publish bulletins.
Many of these groups are part of an all-encompassing group known as ANARC, 
the Association of North American Radio Clubs.  ANARC has a list available
of its constituent clubs, listing addresses, what the focus of each club is,
club publications, and current dues.  You can contact them by writing to
ANARC, 79 Kipps Street, Greenfield Park, Quebec J4V 3B1, Canada.  You should
include some form of return postage when asking for the club list.  The WRTH
contains contact addresses for the  clubs that constitute ANARC.

ANARC has counterpart organizations in Europe and the south Pacific.  The
European organization is the European DX Council (EDXC).  More information on
their constituent clubs is available for 2 International Reply Coupons from
P.O. Box 4, St. Ives, Huntingdon, PE17 4FE, England.  In the south Pacific, the
organization is the South Pacific Association of Radio Clubs, or SPARC.  They
offer information from P.O. Box 1313, Invercargill, New Zealand.

A company called The Radio Collection offers a number of publications in a
series called "Radio 101" aimed at the beginner.  The compiler hasn't seen
any of the publications, but judging from the titles, they look like they
would be useful to anyone getting seriously interested in the hobby aspects
of shortwave radio.  A catalog is available for US$1 from The Radio
Collection, P.O. Box 149, Briarcliff Manor, NY 10510.

And, naturally, listening to the radio can provide you with excellent
information on radio.  There are a number of excellent "DX" programs on the air
for the radio hobbyist.  The WRTH contains a comprehensive list of such shows;
Tom Sundstrom also has a list as part of his Shortwave Database subscription
service, Different shows have different strengths.  DX Party Line on Ecuador's
HCJB is directed toward the beginner.  Sweden Calling DXers on Radio Sweden 
is a compendium of news about shortwave and satellites, including frequency
changes, station reactivations and deactivations, and such. Radio Nederland's
Media Network is a slickly produced general-coverage program.


o Addresses

Billboard Publications      Billboard Ltd.        WRTH
1515 Broadway               71 Beak Street        Soliljevej 44
New York, NY  10036         London W1R 3LF        DK-2650 Hvidovre
United States               United Kingdom        Denmark

Radio Nederland Receiver Guide         Passport to World Band Radio
Engineering Department                 International Broadcast Services, Ltd.
PO Box 222                             Box 300
1200 JG Hilversum                      Penn's Park, PA  18943
The Netherlands

Electronic Equipment Bank              Gilfer Shortwave
137 Church St. N.W.                    52 Park Ave
Vienna, VA  22180                      Park Ridge, NJ  07656
(800) 368 3270 (orders)                (800) GILFER-1 (445-3371) (orders)
(703) 938-3350 (local and              (201) 391-7887 (New Jersey, business
   technical information)                 and technical)
(703) 938-6911 (FAX)                   Free Catalog
Free catalog

Grove Enterprises                      Radio West
(also Monitoring Times)                850 Anns Way Drive
P.O. Box 98                            Vista, CA  92083
Brasstown, NC 28902                    (619) 726-3910
(800) 438-8155                         Price list: $1
(704) 837-9200         
Free Catalog  

Universal Radio                        Popular Communications
1280 Aida Drive                        76 North Broadway
Reynoldsburg, Ohio  43068              Hicksville, NY  11801
(800) 431-3939
(614) 866-4267
SWL Catalog: $1.00

NASWA
45 Wildflower Road
Levittown, PA 19057
Membership costs: $23/yr; sample issue $1


