 APT - Advanced Pirate Technology
 "Whats Up With INC?"
 Part 1: Fourth Interview
 Conducted By: The Illusionist

 Bloody ButCher -Head of INC Courier Operations-

 Bloody ButCher is basically head of courier operations as stated above.  He
 controls all courier assignments and activities.  Bloody runs the INC Courier
 HQ, Splatter House.  Currently he is stationed in California.
 
 (The Illusionist)
"You run one of the largest board in the country.  What would you suggest to
someone who would like to run a decent board?"

  (Bloody ButCher)
"Well running a decent board doesnt mean you must have multinodes and a couple
Gigabytes online.  What I consider a decent board is 1 line and about 500 megs.
(Maybe even less). The most important thing about a BBS is the quality of the
users.  If you have 200 users and they are all a bunch a lamers who don't
contribute shit then whats the use?  I would rather have 20 Elite Users who
contribute to the message bases and transfer sections then 1000 users who dont
do shit..."This brings me back to the old saying, "Its not the quantity but the
quality."

 (The Illusionist)
"What would you say to all the Couriering Groups out there?  What is essential
for a couriering system to work and be successful?"

 (Bloody ButCher)
"Well organization is the key to a successful couriering group.  If you are
unorganized then you will never get anything accomplished.  Being in charge of a
bunch of couriers is a very hard task to do, as I found out when I took over the
INC Courier System.  Before I was in charge of the couriers, I had so many
bright ideas to excel the courier system, but when it came time to actually
apply my ideas, it was quite hard to follow through.  I honestly thought that
I could just kick back and the courier system would run itself... Well lemme
tell you, its nothing like that at all. I have dedicated so much time into the
INC courier system that I can't even believe it.  When you accept such a
position you are not just excepting the title of INC Courier Coordinator but
its more like a package deal which include complaints, and alot of time and
dedication to INC. But what I enjoy the most about this position is all the
friends I have made and basically just the feeling that I know I am doing
something to help my fellow INC affiliates. I greatly thank all the INC Couriers
that I have worked with in the past and couriers I am currently working with.
You guys are all of great importance! Good Job Guyz.. Keep it up."

 (The Illusionist)
"What do you think about INC's current condition?"

 (Bloody ButCher)
"INC has been around for quite some time and is obviously a group that has
always dominated the pirate scene.  Many appreciate and enjoy what INC has
brought forth in the past and INC will continue to do so in the future. INC's
status is very stable and I believe INC will continue to dominate the Pirate
Scene FOREVER!!!! "INC'92 No Competition"

 (The Illusionist)
"How did you manage to get where you are in INC and run a 3.2 Gig board at the
same time?"
                 
 (Bloody ButCher)
"Well about a year ago I decided to put up a board.  Like everyone I wanted to
join only the best groups available, INC was one of the groups I wanted to be
affiliated with.  At the time there was a board called Nuclear Wastelands in 408
that was already a INC Dist site and what I found out really made my chances of
getting in real low.  His board was affiliated with INC almost eversince the
group was formed. Well one day I get a phone call from a local friend saying he
is no longer affiliated with INC.. So I took this opportunity to fill out the
INC Dist site application and send it up to Line Noise.. I waited about 2 weeks
and no one contacted me from INC so I thought I was not excepted. Well one day
when I was eating lunch on a Saturday morning I recieve a phone call from Line
Noise and Cool Hand.. I was pretty shocked. Well to make a long story short I
was excepted as a Dist site and I gradually worked my way up to what I am today...Everything I have
 done for INC was worth it. INC proved to be what I thought it would be.

 ( The Illusionist) 
"Do you have anyother comment you would like to make
 to the BBS world?"

 (Bloody ButCher)
"Well there is really nothing more to say... Except INC is the BEST and
 will continue to rule the Pirate World"

 Thanks For Your Time!
 APT congradulates you for your outstanding work and 
 contribution to the pirate world!

