 
 APT - Advanced Pirate Technology
 "Whats Up With INC?"
 Part 1: Second Interview 
 Conducted By: The Illusionist

 Cool Hand -INC Vice President- 

 Cool hand is currently maintaining the rank 
 of INC's VP. He is stationed in Texas.

 (The Illusionist)
"How did you progress from first entering the pirate
 world to becoming a VP of INC?"

 (Cool Hand)

Well hmmmmmm! Lets see, I quess it started for me like 
with most people by running a BBS, it is called 
The Mid-Nite Oil some of you may have heard of it. Then 
with the help of a friend the infamous Freddy Krueger 
who turned me on to the group scene with the 
formation of -=UnioN=- a short lived group that was 
absorbed by a brite cute little kid from Miami who 
ran a group called Iternational Network of Crackers 
-=INC=- his handle is Line Noise. Once I got into INC 
I became very involved and got busy. 

 Then there was a new group forming called THG, 
I was approached by them to become thier first Distro 
site outside thier original members and seeing
how there was some internal things going on at the 
with INC, I left. This group was hot and new and 
I was tired of following Freddy around. With THG 
hitting the scene, the way groups were ran in the 
past changed with THG spending money for 
games and not relying on the stores. 
What became important then was distribution 
and I came up with the Idea of Coordinating 
Couriers and Candy Man liked the idea and decided 
to call the couriers slaves and wanted 
me to change my handle to the Slave Lord, I 
told him too call the couriers slaves was degrading 
and I would not change my handle, this guy was 
really a dick. Well Time Lord said he would 
change his handle to Slave Lord and run 
the slaves. Well with Slave Lord gone from 
INC I thought it would be nice to return to 
INC and help bring the group back to what it is 
today -- The Best Damn Cracking Group of All 
Time... With hardwork and Loyalty and sticking 
it thru the bad times as well as the good 
I became INC VP..

 (The Illusionist)
"What do you think of INC's future?"

 (Cool Hand)

Our future well I guess that will be up to 
the Federal Goverment, I do this for fun as I 
see it I do nothing illeagal but when big 
brother says you will go to jail for it then 
we will have to quit. In the mean time we will try 
to continue what we are doing but only better.

   
 (The Illusionist)
"What do you think about INC's current Competition?"
                 
 (Cool Hand)
  
Well there have been lots of changes, The way 
I see it is like this the group that gets it 
out first is the winner. I think double releaseing 
games takes the fun out of it. But if it were not 
for double releasing then some of the groups around 
today would not be groups at all. Our best 
competition right now are the ones that play 
by the rules I have a lot of respect for RAZOR 1911
they do it right. Fairlight IBM is a Joke and 
should give it up, THG well there are a few good 
guys left in the group and they are picking up steam
and should be more familiar with what is released so 
they won't continue to imbarrass themselves. 
TDT and Hardcore come thru on the euro stuff and we
will give them that credit and we will not double 
release them and he should do the same. 
Things are gonna be getting harder for 
Hardcore overseas our euro division is getting 
better. TRSI, DRG and XEROX won't do any of us
any good till we all learn to read German.. 

 
 (The Illusionist) 
"Do you have anyother comment you would like to make
 to the BBS world?"

 (Cool Hand)

Yes, There are 3 types of Pirates out thier 
Givers, Takers, and those that give and take. I 
would like to see those that do all the taking give 
a little more respect to those that are doing 
all the giving such as INC, RAZOR, THG, TDT and 
remember a lot of money and time go into the effort 
to bring you something for free so quit complaining. 
Also to those that dont know anything
quit acting like you do please! 

Some of the givers I know, 
Line Noise, The Cracksmith, Lestat, Bar Manager, 
Bloddy Butcher, The Jet, Jake Picket, Null Set, 
Bit Manipulator, Cracker Jack, Jenetic Bytemare, 
Stykx, Aftermath, Nyble Knight, Cyber, Hardcore, 
Barimore, Flecther Christain, The Toyman, Tom Kat, 
The Unknown, The Reaper, Gun Slinger, Dumper, 
Night Ranger The Triton, Jack and those that I 
forgot...


 Thanks For Your Time!
 APT congradulates you for your outstanding work and 
 contribution to the pirate world!

