
         FREEMASONRY: SATAN'S DOOR TO AMERICA?

         by J. Edward Decker


         When the average American thinks of Masonry, the thoughts are
         of Children's Burn Centers and Hospitals, and the Shrine
         Circus, where handicapped children are often carried to front
         row seats in the strong arms of weeping men who are wearing
         the Red Fezes of their fraternity.  Rarely do we see a parade
         without these same Shriners driving up and down the parade
         route in their little cars and motorcycles, wearing clothes
         out of the Arabian nights, bringing laughter to the children
         lined up along the way.

         On more serious occasions, such as the laying of public
         building cornerstones or at the funeral of a Lodge member,
         these same men, dressed in somber attire, wearing their
         ornate sashes, medallioned chains of office and ceremonial
         aprons, will perform with solemn dignity the rites handed
         down through the centuries of their ritual secrecy.  "Good
         men," they say, "becoming better."

         Yet, once you get past the good-old-boy fraternal act, the
         funny red hats of the Shriners and the sheltered reputation
         of the local Blue Lodge Masonic groups, there is something
         beyond the colorful mask, an aura of mystery, power and
         intrigue, complete with undertones of false gods, blood
         oaths, conspiracy and back room politics.

         The Fez itself, is an example of the double meaning behind
         most of Freemasonry's facade.  Worn and even carried to the
         grave with pompous dignity, the history of the Fez is
         barbaric and antiChristian.  In the early 8th century, Muslim
         hordes overran the Moroccan city of Fez, shouting, "There is
         no god but Allah and Muhammed is his prophet."  There they
         butchered almost 50,000 Christians.  These men, women and
         children were slain because of their faith in Christ, all in
         the name of Allah, the same demon god to whome every Shriner
         must bow in worship (and proclaim him the god of his fathers)
         in the Shrine initiation ceremony.

         The Shriner's blood oath and confession of Allah as God is
         found in the sacred ritual book, THE MYSTIC SHRINE, An
         Illustrated Ritual of the Ancient Arabic Order of Nobles of
         the Shrine, (1975 Ed., pp. 20-22).  Realize that Allah is NOT
         just another name for God.  Allah is the name of another god
         in usual occult fashion, the initate swears that he will be
         inseparably obligated to this "most powerful and binding
         oath.", in advance and that he may NEVER retract or depart
         from it.

         During the butchering of the people of Fez, the streets
         literally ran red with the blood of the martyred Christians.
         The Muslim murderers dipped their caps in the blood of their
         victims as a testimony to Allah.  These blood stained caps
         eventually were called Fezes and became the Muslim badge of
         honor.  The Shriners wear that same red Fez today.  The
         greatest tragedy is that the Fez is often worn by men who
         profess to be Christians themselves.  It must cause God to
         weep.

         A curious piece of the Masonic conspiracy puzzle in the
         founding of America is the actual street layout for our
         Capital city, Washington, D.C.  Actually, it's as much the
         audacity of the thing as the conspiratorial nature of it.
         You see, the city was laid out in the form of key Masonic
         Symbols, the Square, the Compass, the Rule and the Pentagram.

         Take any good street map of downtown Washington, D.C. and
         find the Capitol Building.  Facing the Capitol from the Mall
         and using the Capitol as the head or top of the Compass, the
         left leg is represented by Pennslyvania Ave and the right
         leg, Maryland Ave.  The Square is found in the usual Masonic
         position with the intersection of Canal St. and Louisana Ave.
         The left leg of the Compass stands on the White House and the
         right leg stands on the Jefferson Memorial.  The circle drive
         and short streets behind the Capitol form the head and ears
         of what Satanists call the GOAT OF MENDES or Goat's head.

         On top of the White House is an inverted 5 pointed star, or
         PENTAGRAM.  The point is facing South in true occult fashion.
         It sits within the intersections of Connecticut and Vermont
         Avenues north to Dupont and Logan Circles, with Rhode Island
         and Massachusetts going to Washington Circle to the West and
         Mt. Vernon Square on the East.

         The center of the pentagram is 16th St. where, thirteen
         blocks due north of the very center of the White House, the
         Masonic HOUSE OF THE TEMPLE sits at the top of this occult
         iceberg.

         The Washington Monument stands in perfect line to the
         intersecting point of the form of the Masonic square,
         stretching from the House of the Temple to the Capitol
         building.  Within the hypotenuse of that right triangle sit
         many of the headquarter buildings for the most powerful
         departments of government, such as the Justice Dept, U.S.
         Senate and Internal Revenue Service.

         It would be great to know that your national Capital is
         bathed in continual prayer and to believe that its buildings
         and monuments have been dedicated in prayer, but do you
         realize that EVERY KEY FEDERAL BUILDING from the White House
         to the Capitol Building has had a cornerstone laid in a
         Masonic ritual and had specific Masonic paraphernalia placed
         in each one.  Again, wonderful if we are talking about our
         one true God in all this, but such is not the case.  The
         cornerstones of all these buildings have been laid in Masonic
         ritual, dedicated to the demonic god of Masonry, JAO-BUL-ON.
         That is the secret name of the Masonic god, the "LOST WORD"
         in the rite of the Royal Arch degree.  "JAO" is the Greek
         name for the god of the Gnostics, laldabaoth or lao, "BUL" is
         a rendering of the name, Ba'al and "ON" is the Babylonian
         name of Osiris.

         What you see represented in this name of the Masonic Deity is a
         three headed pagen deity so remote from the Christian faith and so
         blasphemous as to damn the eternal soul of anyone who would dare
         to pronounce its name in worship.  The ritual, and full
         explanation is found in DUNCAN'S MASONIC RITUAL AND MONITOR,
         (Third ed., pp. 224-226, 249-251, esp note #1, p. 250).

         The Washinton Monument actually represents the Phallic Principle
         upon which Speculative Masonry is based.  From above, the monument
         and its circular drive form the esoteric Masonic "Point within a
         circle."  The Reflecting Pool bears its shadowed image, with the
         illusion duplicated in the Lincoln Memorial.

         Strange?  Not if you understand the occult principles involved.
         The respected Masonic author and authority, Albert Mackey states
         in MACKEY'S MASONIC RITUALIST, (pp. 62-63): "The point within a
         circle is an interesting and important symbol in Freemasonry...the
         symbol is a beautiful but somewhat abstruse allusion
         to...sun-worship and introduces us for the first time to that
         modification of it known among the ancients as the worship of the
         Phallus.  The Phallus was an imitation of the male generative
         organ.  It was represented usually by a column, which was
         surrounded by a circle at its base, intended for the cteis, or
         female generative organ.  The union of the Phallus and cteis,
         which is well represented by the point within the circle, was
         intended by the ancients as a type of the prolific powers of
         nature, which they worshipped under the united form of the active
         or male principle and the passive or female principle."

         Winding about the streets of D.C. are a hundred such applications
         of "The Principle".  They are there by design and we can barely
         touch the simplest.  Our nation and leaders have been deeply
         effected by this occult power.

         The News Rocked the Nation!  ASTROLOGY IN THE WHITE HOUSE!  PEOPLE
         magazine ran it as its cover story in the May 23, 1988 issue.
         Nancy Reagan was manipulating the President's schedule based upon
         astrological charts drawn up by a San Francisco soothsayer named
         Joan Quigley.  It wasn't the first time the resident of the White
         House was doing a balancing act with the stargazers.  Teddy
         Roosevelt kept his own affected by this occult power.

         The News Rocked the Nation!  ASTROLOGY IN THE WHITE HOUSE!  PEOPLE
         magazine ran it as its cover story in the May 23, 1988 issue.
         Nancy Reagan was manipulating the President's schedule based upon
         astrological charts drawn up by a San Francisco soothsayer named
         Joan Quigley.  It wasn't the first time the resident of the White
         House was doing a balancing act with the stargazers.  Teddy
         Roosevelt kept his own affected by this occult power.

         The News Rocked the Nation!  ASTROLOGY IN THE WHITE HOUSE!  PEOPLE
         magazine ran it as its cover story in the May 23, 1988 issue.
         Nancy Reagan was manipulating the President's schedule based upon
         astrological charts drawn up by a San Francisco soothsayer named
         Joan Quigley.  It wasn't the first time the resident of the White
         House was doing a balancing act with the stargazers.  Teddy
         Roosevelt kept his own affected by this occult power.

         The News Rocked the Nation!  ASTROLOGY IN THE WHITE HOUSE!  PEOPLE
         magazine ran it as its cover story in the May 23, 1988 issue.
         Nancy Reagan was manipulating the President's schedule based upon
         astrological charts drawn up by a San Francisco soothsayer named
         Joan Quigley.  It wasn't the first time the resident of the White
         House was doing a balancing act with the stargazers.  Teddy
         Roosevelt kept his own a
         such a design is a SPRITUAL DOOR to the occult, a planned invasion
         by the powers of darkness against this Christian nation.  "We have
         been under siege from the first day our first President walked
         into the Oval Office," Bill stated.

         Bill added that Albert Pike, the giant of Masonic philosophy who
         is entombed just 13 blocks from the White House in the "House of
         the Temple" has identified the pentagram (or "Pentapha") as the
         blazing star which is at the heart of every Masonic lodge and
         which represents the star Sirius.  (MORALS AND DOGMA, pp. 14-15)
         Now Sirius has been know for 5,000 years as the symbol of the
         Egyptian devil, SET; and it is regarded as a star of GREAT EVIL!
         (ALEISTER CROWLEY AND THE HIDDEN GOD by Kenneth Grant, p. 12).

         Bill emphasized that to the magician, the inverted pentagram has
         one use only, and that is to call up the power of Satan and bring
         the Kingdom of the Devil into manifestation on earth (MAN, MYTH
         AND MAGIC, p 2159).  Yet this very same symbol straddles the
         corridors of our nation's power and is "aimed" right at the White
         House!

         The pentagram is found almost constantly at sites of ritual
         murders; and in the notebooks of teens who have become involved in
         satanism and ended up killing themselves.  In the Arizonia
         Republic, 11/27/88; section B, an article by Bill Donovan and Mark
         Shaffer, talks about 3 teenage suicides.  The authors quote a
         school administrator,

                All you have to do to know we have a large problem
                on our hand is to drive down the street.  There are
                pentagrams everywhere, on top signs, buildings, trash
                dumpsters, even one that's been on the post office.
                Pentagrams are five-pointed stars used as a symbol by
                practicing satanists.

         It is evident that death, destruction and carnage follow this
         symbol everywhere.  It is a key which opens up the door of hell;
         at least according to sorcerers.  WHAT DOES THE BIBLE SAY?

         This star, which has been identified even by the Bible as the
         accursed "tabernacle of Molech, and the star of your god, Remphan,
         figures which ye made to worship them..." (ACTS 7:43, cf AMOS
         5:25-27) is an idolrous image sullied by unfold centuries of
         debauched worship; and yet it is carefully placed right upon our
         nation's capital.

         Every bit as staggering is the fact that this same pentagram is
         the central symbol of the CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR, this
         nation's highest military award for bravery.  The inverted 5
         pointed star, within a circle is the highest form of satanic
         expression, representing BAPHOMET, the Goat of Mendes, or the
         embodiment of LUCIFER AS GOD.

         Of course, nearby the main part of Washington D.C. is one of the
         most famous and distinctively shaped buildings in America, the
         PENTAGON.  Although most recognize the Pentagon as the nerve
         center of our nation's defence establishment; few realize that the
         Pentagon itself is a geometric design used in magic and witchcraft
         as well.

         The Pentagon, through its use of the number 5 is associated
         profoundly with the planet Mars and the ancient god of war, called
         variously Aries, Horus or Mars.  (see A PRACTICAL GUIDE TO
         QABALISTIC SYMBOLISM by Gareth Knight, p. 124ff).  This is because
         Mars is the fifth planet on the magical diagram, the Tree of Life;
         among other reasons.

         The pentagon is also one of the two secret symbols of the highest
         levels of Freemasonry, the ANCIENT AND ILLUMINATED SEERS OF
         BAVARIA (aka the Illuminati) - the other being the Pentagram.  It
         may be observed that EVERY PENTAGRAM HAS A PENTAGON WITHIN IT; and
         that every proper pentagram can fit perfectly point-to-corner
         within a pentagon.

         Thus, the magician sees the Pentagon as a GIGANTIC TALISMAN OF WAR
         or battle.  Bill Schnoebelen points out that throughout the
         witchcraft underground of the U.S. there has been circulating a
         rumor that a demonic war-god is imprisoned inside the pentagon and
         that he is what keeps causing wars.  During the anti-war movement
         of the Vietnam era, in the midst of a demonstration at the
         Pentagon, some "witches for peace" were present and actually
         attempted to levitate the Pentagon and "exorcise" the demon god
         "YOG SOTHOTH" from within it.  Needless to say, the building
         remained unlevitated.

         Freemasonry boasts 16 Presidents, including Ronald Reagan, 41
         Federal Judges, 60 Congressmen, 14 members of the Judiciary
         Committee and 18 Senators.  One can only guess at the numbers
         involved within the many government departments.  There is no
         doubt that Masonic conspirators plotted against this nation from
         its very inception to the present hour.  WE PRAISE GOD that there
         have been that many real Christians praying for this country and
         its leaders to keep a rightous God from bringing deserved
         judgement against this nation.

         IS THERE ANY WONDER THAT THE BATTLE SEEMS SO DIFFICULT?  How have
         such evils like greed and conspiracy within our national
         leadership been able to rock our nation?  How has the Federal
         Judicial system become such a power cult that it is able to
         violate our human rights with total freedom?  How have such
         Biblically opposed acts as abortion and homosexuality become
         acceptable and even welcomed practices?  When did this people give
         up the right of freedom OF (and not from) Religion?  When did we
         say it was OK for the open practice of Witchcraft and Satanism in
         our government and schools while Christianity is prohibited?  When
         did humanism and the New Age philosophies replace Christianity as
         the Rock upon which this nation was built?

         Well, it began when we allowed the soothsayers and worshippers of
         JaoBulOn to lay out our National Capital as a giant Satanic
         Talisman, an open door to the demonic world of darkness.  IT IS
         NOW TIME FOR US TO TAKE BACK WHAT SATAN WOULD TAKE AWAY.

         Christian brothers and sisters, WE have the authority and power of
         the believer.  WE have the Biblical promise and example of the
         power of prayer, the miracle of intercession.  WE have the need
         and the right to go to our knees in private and in our
         congregations to break the power and influence of these demonic
         abominations in our Nation, Church and families.  LET'S DO BATTLE
         IN SPIRITUAL PLACES (Eph. 6) LET'S CLOSE THAT NO-LONGER-SECRET
         DOOR OF THE ENEMY IN OUR NATIONAL CAPTIAL!

         To those readers who would make light of this urgent message, the
         Bible speaks directly to this national sin.  "Be ye not unequally
         yoked together with unbelievers; for what fellowship hath
         righteousness with unrighteousness?  And what communion hath light
         with darkness?  And what concord hath Christ with Belial?  Or what
         part hath he that believeth with an infidel?" (2 Cor 6:14, 15)

         Verse 17 says, "Come out from among them and be ye separate, saith
         the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing; and I will receive
         you."

         Even as Elijah called out, "Ye have forsaken the commandments of
         the Lord and thou has followed Baal!", I Cry out, "How long halt
         you between two opinions?  If the Lord be God follow him, But if
         Baal [be your god], then follow him!" (1 Kings 18:18,21)

         If you are a Mason, I charge you to choose Jesus and the Church or
         choose the Lodge and Lucifer, but stop playing games with God,
         your family and your own soul.  There is a reason that the Masons
         do not allow Lodge prayers to include the name of Jesus.  It's not
         his temple you worship in, but that of JaoBulOn, or Lucifer.  You
         are not bound by those blood oaths!  RENOUNCE JaoBulOn AND HIS
         OATHS AND BE SET FREE!

         I pray that you will choose Jesus, repent and be set free from
         this wicked power unto whom you have submitted your soul.  If this
         be your desire, remember that we have this promise:  "If we
         CONFESS our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive our sins and
         to cleanse us FROM ALL UNRIGHTEOUSNESS." (1 John 1:9)

         Write to us and let us know of your decision for Jesus Christ!

         For more information, write:

         FREE THE MASONS MINISTRIES
         P.O. BOX 1077
         ISSAQUAH, WASHINGTON  98027


         TRANSCRIBED 8 FEBRUARY 1991
         <END OF FILE>

