===========[ The Christian BBS - 604-478-2789 - 24 Hrs - 8,N,1 ]=========== 
The following file has been put up, though not necessarily done by Dave 
Geauvreau who is the Sysop of "The Christian BBS," and can be contacted for 
more information by phoning the bulletin board at (604)-478-2789, or the 
voice line at (604)-478-0254, or by writing to 3053 Metchosin Rd., 
Victoria, B.C., Canada - V9B 4Y9! All donations if by check are to be to 
"The Christian BBS," and please note that finances do not allow me to 
accept long distance charges and return mail must be pre-postaged paid. 
=========================================================================== 


                              THE F.A.T.A.L. FLAW

"They he brought me to the gate of the LORD's house which was toward the 
north; and behold, there sat women weeping for Tammuz."  Ezekiel 8:14 

Since 1868, thousands of decent Christian women have innocently taken part 
in pagan rites around an altar to the gods of witchcraft.  They have been 
deceived into bowing the knee to gods so vile and ancient that even the 
pagan priests of Egypt blotted them out from their history.  Women who 
would blush with shame at the mention of satanism have been led to Satan's 
altar by people they trusted.  Often their own husbands, who were given 
stewardship over them by Jesus Christ have violated that trust by leading 
them into paths of idolatry. 

Alarming accusations!  Yet this altar of idolatry is nestled right in the 
bosom of Christianity - The Order of the Eastern Star!  Much has been 
written on the spiritual dangers of Freemasonry.  Yet the "Star," is 
equally perilous. 

                             SPIRITUAL "ADOPTION"

The Star is known as "Adoptive" Masonry.  This means mothers, daughters, 
wives and sisters of Freemasons my be spiritually "adopted" into the 
Masonic order.  Hence, they come under its spiritual authority.  Now since 
Lucifer is the acknowledged god of Masonry, what does this "adoption" mean 
for the woman who joins the Star?  She is submitting herself to the 
spiritual headship of Lucifer?  Even a Christian woman is surrendering 
herself, however innocently, to the gods of Masonry - and this will give 
Satan an entry point into her life, regardless of how devout she is. 

When anyone, man or woman, becomes a Christian they are adopted into the 
family of God (Rom.8:15-17).  Yet when they kneel at a Masonic altar and 
take those oaths, they are entering Satan's dominion, whether then know it 
or not.  This opens the door to all manner of problems.  We have dealt with 
women who entered the Star and then found their nights troubled by strange 
dreams and demonic activity.  As soon as they repented of their involvement 
in the Star and renounced their oaths in the name of Jesus, the oppression 
ceased.  

This is why we are told by Paul to avoid all contact with idolatry because 
of what it can bring to our very door:  "Do not be yoked together with 
unbelievers.  For what do righteousness and wickedness have in common?  Or 
what fellowship can light have with darkness?  What harmony is there 
between Christ and Belial?  ...Therefore come out from them and be 
separate, says the Lord." - 2 Cor.6:14-15,17. 

                         HOOFPRINTS ARE EVERYWHERE!

We need not look far into the Star to find evidence of Satan's presence.  
His hoofprints are everywhere!  To begin with the most obvious, we look at 
the "signet" of the Order, which is an inverted five-pointed start- called 
a pentagram in witchcraft.  The fact is that this inverted pentagram is so 
deeply and unmistakably associated with satanism that many witches fear to 
use it for fear of the demons they attract.  This star is used to draw down 
the kingdom of Satan into manifestation on earth! (MAN, MYTH AND MAGIC, 
vol.16,p.2159) 

This star can be drawn with the goat's-head inside.  It then becomes the 
badge of the Satanist, the infamous Goat of Mendes!  This goat's name is 
Baphomet, and it is the blasphemous god of the 12th Century Knights Templar 
(the ancestors of today's Freemasons). 

Here is this sinister star, exalted as the very centerpiece of the Chapter!  
Not only is the star inverted, by the colorful attributes of the 5 points 
are even the correct colors for the four magical elements, air (blue), 
earth (yellow), water (green) and fire (red); plus the fifth point, the 
bottom, represents "akasha," the spiritual power of the "astral plane" 
which is the fusion of all the other "rays" of the star into white. 

It is evident that the person who designed the Eastern Star had more than a 
passing knowledge of black magic.  That, in itself should make Christians 
nervous.  The Bible forbids any involvement with sorcery: 

"Let no one be found among you who sacrifices his son or daughter in the 
fire, who practices divination or sorcery, interprets omens, engages in 
witchcraft, or who is a medium or spiritist or who consults the dead. -
Deut.18:10-11 

Worship of starts is especially condemned:

The houses in Jerusalem and those of the kings of Judah will be defiled 
like this place, Topheth - all the houses where they burned incense on the 
roofs to all starry hosts and poured out drink offerings to other gods. -
Jer.19:13 

He (King Manassah) built altars to all the starry hosts.  He sacrificed his 
own son in the fire, practiced sorcery and divination, and consulted 
mediums and spiritists. -2 Kings 21:5-6 

Please note the grievous sins associated with star-worship.  "Tophet" is a 
place where during the days of deepest sin in Israel, parents sacrificed 
their children to the god Molech!  It is a "place of burning" which later 
on came to be known as Gehenna, the word often used by Jesus for hell!  
(EERDMANS' CONCISE BIBLE HANDBOOK, P.203).  Manassah sacrificed his own son 
in the fire! 

If you lay out a satanic star and offer devotions at it, the moral and 
spiritual consequences are ominous!  You may say that you have been in the 
Star for years and you are still a good member of your church and that you 
aren't making sacrifices of your children - but think! 

Are our children not being sacrificed every day through abortion?  Are not 
the generations reared under the influence of the Star the first mothers to 
lay their babies willingly upon the altars of the abortion clinic by the 
millions?  Are we not seeing the dividends of this pagan worship in the 
corruption of the very ideals of motherhood?  Are we not witnessing the 
moral destruction of whole generations of children because of the mothers' 
participation in these "harmless rituals"? 

Perhaps it is too much to blame the moral decay of our children on the 
Star, but remember how in the Bible, the people of Israel kept falling into 
disaster because they allowed a ""little" idolatry to creep into their 
culture.  If you wish to corrupt a culture, corrupt its mothers - and the 
spiritual leprosy of Masonry is doing just that! 

                           "HIS STAR IN THE EAST"

At this point you may protest and say that the Star is based on biblical 
stories and that the star of the altar is intended to represent the "star 
in the east" mention in Mt.2:2 which heralded the birth of Jesus.  You may 
point out that the motto of the order is:  "We have seen his star in the 
East and are come to worship Him."  This sounds very pious, but actually it 
is misdirection! 

First of all, the star of Bethlehem could not have been an "eastern star," 
since most biblical expositors agree that the magi came form the east, and 
that therefor a star over Judea would be in the western sky to their 
viewpoint.  Some scholars feel that the passage means that the magi were 
"in the east" when they saw the star - others say that the term "in the 
east" can also be translated alternately as "seen when it rose," meaning 
that they saw the star as it rose. 

STRONG'S CONCORDANCE, in fact, gives the primary meaning of the Greek word 
there, Anatole, as a rising of light; with "eastern" as only a figurative 
meaning.  VINE'S EXPOSITORY DICTIONARY concurs.  The "Eastern Star" cannot 
be the star of Bethlehem!  Then whose star is it? 

In reality, the Eastern Star is a term among sorcerers for the star Sirius.  
(See CITY OF REVELATION by John Michell, p.4)  This fits perfectly because 
in black magic, the inverted pentagram is the sign of Sirius or Set.  (See 
ALEISTER CROWLEY AND THE HIDDEN GOD by Kenneth Grant, p.12).  But who is 
Sirius, or Set? 

Sirius is the "Dog Star", the first star to rise in the east in the 
latitudes of Egypt.  It is sacred to Set, the satanic figure of Egyptian 
religion.  The Egyptians celebrated Sirius' ascendancy in the skies with 
horrible, obscene rituals!  In fact, the rites of Sirius or Set were so 
debased that later rulers of Egypt deface their temples and obelisks and 
tried to drive them from the land (See Grant, pp.70-71). 

                            "THE F.A.T.A.L FLAW"

When the ladies of the Star say, "We have seen His Star in the East and are 
come to worship Him.", who is "Him?"  Is it the Jesus of Calvary or is it 
some dogheaded, obscence god named Set?  What does the evidence tell us? 

The Biblical elements in the Star ceremony are suspect to say the least - 
based as they are upon dubious actions and mythical additions to the Bible.  
Yet the occult elements in the Star's symbolism are obvious for anyone to 
see!  The Eastern Star is not the star which heralds Jesus, but the star 
which heralds Set - the most ancient form of Satan in recorded history! 

But you may say that you don't believe in Set, and that you believe that 
you are performing pious exercises.  You say that you thought the Star was 
a order which worships the true God.  But my dear friends, every person 
believes that the god they worship is the true God.  The important they is 
that if you are a Christian, the Bible tells you to "avoid even the 
appearance of evil." -1 Thess. 5:22 and to "keep yourselves from idols." -1 
Jn.5:21.  How can you keep yourself from idols when every other week or so 
you gather around the most ancient and evil idol in human history? 

Is your presence in the Chapter really pleasing to the God who thundered 
from Mt. Sinai and said, "I am the Lord your God..you shall have no other 
gods before me."  You can no longer protest innocence.  You know the evil 
origins of the symbols of the star and you know that the Lord Jesus forbade 
the taking of oaths of any kind (Mt.5:33-37).  What more do you need than 
the knowledge that you are breaking the commands of the Gentle Master Whom 
you serve? 

That is the F.A.T.A.L. flaw of the Star.  The very term "cabalistic word" 
refers to an ancient system of Jewish magic--the Quabalah!  The Star's 
"word" may be "Fairest Among Thousands Altogether Lovely," but it is asking 
you to choose between the star of the evil and One who is your beloved 
Bridegroom, "...dazzling and ruddy, outstanding among ten thousand." -
Cant.5:10  Flee the headship and authority of Satan, and return to the arms 
of Him who should be your Head, your Bridegroom, and your Savior, Jesus 
Christ!  

