=========[ The Christian BBS - (604)478-2789 - 24 Hrs - 8,N,1 ]=========
Dave Geauvreau is the Sysop of "The Christian BBS," and can be contacted 
for more information by phoning the bulletin board at (604)-478-2789, or 
the voice line at (604)-478-0254, or by writing to 3053 Metchosin Rd., 
Victoria, B.C., Canada - V9B 4Y9!  All donations if by check are to be 
to "The Christian BBS," and please note that finances do not allow me to 
accept collect long distance charges/return mail must be pre-postaged 
paid. 
======================================================================== 

                               FREEMASONS 
              THE SECRET AGENDA OF THE MANAGERS OF HISTORY

For many people recalling their school days seldom includes fond 
memories of the history class. Boring lists of dates and names, who, 
when and where but rarely ever why; it was all seemingly disjointed and 
almost contrived to be instantly forgettable. 

The two-hundredth anniversary of the founding of America was celebrated 
in 1976 and the same anniversary is being celebrated by the people of 
the French Republic in 1989. There, is of course, an historical 
connection which may not be too clear in many minds but even less clear 
is why each celebration has been attended by some harsh criticism. A 
glimpse behind the scenes of textbook history, however, reveals a hidden 
agenda and exposure of this not only enables many historical episodes to 
fall into place but provides a very clear picture of where present-day 
world events are taking us. 

We begin early
in sixteenth century Europe where the invention of the printing press 
had made both Bibles and the works of the Greek philosophers available 
to many would-be scholars. The Background Ever since the fourth century 
when the Roman emperor Constantine I made Christianity the official 
religion, the Latin Church had gained increasing power and by the 
sixteenth century the Western world was virtually ruled by the priest. 
The Latin clergy in Europe, and the Pope in particular, had tremendous 
power. But power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely with 
the result that although Christian principles were generally the basis 
for law, they were enforced more by the letter than by the spirit. 

The old Latin Church had governed by providing the people with all the 
schools, universities and hospitals and ensured that everyone received 
Christian instruction; most knew Scriptural principles and many, though 
poor, tried to live by them. The ruling classes, however, received a 
more extensive private education, often paid mere lip service to 
Christian principles and believed it was their God-given right to keep 
the poor in submission. The feudal working classes were thus submitted 
to both priest and landowner who was in turn submitted to the King. But 
then we find the shadowy figure of the priest standing behind every 
throne! 

The corruption in the Latin Church eventually became so extreme that a 
revolt was finally triggered against the papal system in Germany led by 
Martin Luther; the date was 1517. England rejected the Latin pope about 
a decade later only to make King Henry VIII pope of the Church of 
England. These were the beginnings of the Protestant Church. 

The Latin Church continued and, after the Council of Trent (1545-1563), 
became the Roman Church we know today. The Protestant Church dominated 
Britain, Holland and parts of Germany and, at first, tried to adhere to 
Biblical principles but power corrupts... Protestants generally regarded 
the Roman Church as the root of all evil although in England by the 
Seventeenth century, the Protestant Church itself was as full of 
hypocrisy as the Roman Church was of superstition; both were filled with 
corruption and each went to war against the other. 

Certain free-thinking men in England and in Europe perceived that it was 
not just the Roman Church but Christianity itself which was responsible 
for all the wars, corruption and inequality which had besieged Europe 
for the past several hundred years. These men, who became the founders 
of the "Enlightenment", wanted a total change. But it was dangerous to 
speak openly against the Church and the King and organized discussion 
had to be in secret. It happened that there were a number of secret 
societies already in existence including the Rosicrucians and the 
Freemasons. 

The latter were the builders of the great cathedrals and other major 
buildings across Europe and England; they were a kind of early trade 
union. In most parts of Continental Europe their numbers dwindled after 
the Reformation and the Wars of Religion but in England they were still 
very active. Then, in the late seventeenth century, they took on a very 
different character. The free-thinkers, who were for the most part 
Protestant, educated and influential, joined the Freemasons and, since 
most of these gentlemen would not have known a square from a compass, 
they were enrolled as "Speculative Masons" to distinguish them from the 
original "Craft Masons". 

The distinction was of little consequence to the gentlemen of the 
Enlightenment who had cuckooed their way into the secret society and 
could now make their plans and network their intentions across Europe 
with little fear. The dissatisfaction with Church and King had produced 
four literary works on the Utopia theme: Thomas More began the trend 
with his Utopia in 1516, Sir Francis Bacon followed with his New 
Atlantis published posthumously in 1627; in Italy, Tommaso Campanella 
produced his City of the Sun about 1634 and later, in France, Jean 
Jacques Rousseau published his Social Contract in 1762. 

The authors of these works were well aware that the Greek philosopher, 
Plato, writing in the 5th century BC, had also been dissatisfied with 
corruption in the various systems of government. He had proposed a 
Republic in which a team of "wise men" ruled the people. Plato's 
Republic then became an ideal for the humanist free-thinkers in England 
and Europe; the objective adopted by the speculative Masons was to 
replace the existing order of rule by Church and King with a Republic. 


They realized that in order to bring this form of government into 
existence, they had to continue to work secretly and internationally 
with the aim of first destroying the existing order. The long-term aim 
was world peace through the elimination of wars between nations. But, 
this would only be possible by dissolving all national sovereignty and 
introducing a new world order un der one Republican World government. 
The Masonic organization became world-wide from India to the Americas 
under the old British Empire and, as we shall see, has been dedicated to 
these lofty aims ever since. 

Who are the Masons? Although the history of Masonry has been 
deliberately obscured, much work has been done in recent years by non-
Masonic historians to restore a reasonable measure of truth. However, 
far worse than distorted Masonic history is the fact that Masonic 
involvement in the affairs of nations has been completely erased from 
the textbook. Thus, textbook history has been left as a series of 
disjointed episodes without an agenda. Proof of this is the fact that 
the early accounts of such leading historical characters as Benjamin 
Franklin or Giuseppe Garibaldi make it very clear that Freemasonry 
played a central part in their lives. However, by the time history was 
written up in formal and scholarly tomes by the fellows of Trinity 
College, Cambridge, there is not one hint that anyone was ever a Mason! 
Cambridge historians George Trevelyan and his son, Sir George, were in 
all likelihood fellow Masons and their censorship has, in a sense, been 
too complete; the absence of any reference to Masonry is quite 
noticeable. 

Masonic historical works are available in public libraries and they like 
to claim many eminent names as their own; this is a starting point but 
caution is necessary because some, like Voltaire, entered the 
brotherhood virtually on their deathbed. Nevertheless, the point of 
persuading eminent men to join, even though they may not be active, is 
that their names can legitimately be used later to influence others. 
Rousseau, Goethe, Mozart and Kipling to name a few, were all Masons. In 
this way, many kings and presidents have become Masons. In England, for 
example, we find Kings Charles I and II, William III, George IV, William 
IV, Edward VII, George V and George VI were all Masons and several were 
masters of the Grand Lodge. We will also find an impressive list of 
Church of England Bishops among them (Calvert 1917). 

Then, in America, we will find that most signers of the Declaration of 
Independence, including Franklin and Hancock, were Masons together with 
practically every president since George Washington; president Reagan 
was elected into the Scottish rite just before he left office and 
president Bush has been a senior Mason for a many years. Some of these 
men will have been aware of the ultimate aims of the brotherhood, others 
will have been duped in by association with the great names in history 
and remain blissfully unaware of the real objectives; president Reagan 
was probably one of the latter. 

The roots of Masonry are closely allied with Sir Francis Bacon (1561-
1626) and Sir Elias Ashmole (1617-1692) in England. Both were associated 
with the Rosicrucians and the Freemasons (Gould 1904, 243 and Webster 
1924, 120). Ashmole was the founder of the Asmolean Museum at Oxford and 
Bacon has been credited with today's "scientific method". Perhaps of 
greater interest is Bacon's New Atlantis which describes the land of 
Bensalem in which there is a co-operative college of science called 
Solomon's house. The house is essentially a religious community in which 
the men must all take an oath of secrecy; there are 33 orders of tasks. 
The similarity between this and modern Masonry with its emphasis on 
Solomon's temple and 33 degrees is surely more than coincidental. But 
wait, careful reading of New Atlantis shows that there were three more 
orders making a total of 36 and these last three are called 
"Interpreters of Nature". Theirs is the most important and secret task 
since all the others report to them. 

Is it possible that there are three higher orders in Masonry who oversee 
the grand plan? From the number of Shriners in North America, each of 
whom is a 32nd or 33rd Mason, it is amazing that not one, as far as is 
known, has ever broken down and confessed all. The most likely 
explanation is that most of the Shriners have no idea of the grand plan. 
The effort to convince the public (but not the Inland Revenue Service) 
and their own members that the Masonic objectives are charitable works 
has evidently been highly successful. Many of the Rosicrucian and 
Masonic groups were fused in 1717, the year of the inauguration of the 
Grand Lodge, and their ritual standardized and canonized at this time. 
John Toland is said to have been responsible for introducing the legend, 
ritual and theology of speculative Masonry which he took from the 
Hermetic and ancient Egyptian religions. 

Masonry itself is a religion while their own publications admit this; 
they meet in a "temple", worship the "Grand Architect", use the King 
James Bible but are very careful not to mention the name of Jesus. The 
name is omitted from 1 Peter 2:3-5 which is their opening prayer. This 
alone should indicate that their religion is anti-Christian by nature. 
Bernal (1987, 173) has shown more recently that although the Masonic 
objective was to create a band of illuminati who would lead the world to 
a better, more peaceful and more tolerant way of life, many millenarians 
within their ranks believed that knowledge had to be reassembled before 
the coming thousand-year reign. It was this thinking added to the 
thought that "wise men" needed to be trained in readiness for the first 
Republic, that resulted in the establishment of the Royal Society in 
1662. 

Founded by King Charles II, a Mason, the first president was Sir Isaac 
Newton who was a Deist and most probably a Mason. The original craft 
Masons always had a strong attachment to Egypt. The route is perhaps 
tenuous but in the recognition that the ancient Egyptians were indeed 
masters of building in stone, amythology was built up in which the 
Masons saw themselves in theimage of Hiram, the half-Phoenician 
craftsman builder of Solomon's temple. The Phoenicians were firmly 
linked to the Egyptians in the Bible--both are listed as sons of Ham--
and Hiram Abif is at the core of Masonic mythology. The name Hiram Abif 
appears only in the Coverdale translation of the Bible published about 
1540 and becomes simply "Hiram King of Tyre" in the King James version 
(1 Kings 5:1). Every Masonic temple is patterned after the Egyptian 
temples, aligned East to West with the main entrance at the East end and 
the altar at the West end so that at the vernal equinox the rising sun 
will cast a shaft of light through the entrance to the altar. This is a 
vestige of pagan sun worship. 

The Egyptian obelisk has been adopted as a symbol of Masonic victory 
over traditional Christianity and, once recognized, serves as a very 
useful guide. In Egypt, the obelisk was a phallic symbol of the 
resurrection through procreation, that is, the phallus was the means by 
which man lived again through his off-spring. Thus, as a symbol of the 
resurrection the obelisk has been used as a grave marker by the Masons, 
particularly those in the senior ranks, since the sixteenth century. It 
seems that the bodies of most of the English humanist thinkers 
gravitated to Westminster Abbey in London and the place fairly bristles 
with obelisk tomb markers. A few cemetery obelisks will contain a 
Masonic square and compass to leave no doubt as to the connection but it 
will be found that the personal graves of many an influential man is 
topped by an obelisk: the grave of George Washington and of Sir John A. 
MacDonald, first prime minister of Canada, are classic examples. The 
craft Masons also tend to use the broken column as their marker but very 
seldom will the empty cross be found marking a Masonic grave. 

As far as their use as victory markers, an obelisk was erected to mark 
the battle of the River Boyne in Northern Ireland where Protestant 
William of Orange defeated Catholic King James II in 1690. There is no 
evidence that William II was a Mason but the obelisk was erected in the 
following century to celebrate the victory of Protestantism over 
Catholicism. The Masonic organization has always opposed the Roman 
Church while the Roman Pontiffs have known this and have forbidden their 
people to join the Masonic Order. In recent years, however, Masons have 
infiltrated the Vatican and there now seems to be some sort of unholy 
alliance. The largest stone obelisk in the United States is the 550 ft. 
tall Washington Monument purportedly to commemorate George Washington's 
birth place. There was a great scandal when it was erected because it 
was done so at public expense and the people of the time knew its real 
purpose was to commemorate Masonic victory over King George III and even 
victory over Christianity itself in 1776. The monument was completed in 
1884. Various other victories, real and perceived, will be found to be 
marked by obelisks such as that at Bunker Hill in Charleston. The French 
Revolution was even more successful than the American and they had to 
have an even larger obelisk to celebrate their victory. 

There is a genuine obelisk stolen from Egypt to mark the victory of the 
Bastille in Paris and then there is the daddy of them all, the Eiffel 
Tower, just twice as tall as the Washington Monument and completed in 
time for the centenary celebrations in 1889. 

These victory markers will be found world-wide and enquiry will usually 
show that the loser in the battle will have been some sort of 
Christianity while the victory will have been asignificant step towards 
the establishment of a Republic. For example, on a hill in Sicily there 
is an obelisk to commemorate the Masonic victory at Gibilrossa under 
Garibaldi (A Grand Orient Mason) in 1860 which led to today's Italian 
Republic. 

Masonic Objectives Achieved The plans had been made, the location was 
sufficiently remote from Old World authority and a mildly oppressive 
opportunity presented itself to justify the beginning of arevolution. 
The place was Philadelphia and the date was 1776.

Benjamin Franklin, journalist and publisher, was also shuttle diplomat 
between like-minded revolutionaries in England and in Paris. Franklin 
had persuaded Englishman and fellow-Mason, Thomas Paine, to return to 
Philadelphia to help liberate America by inciting the common man to 
revolt against King George III. Paine produced his Common Sense and, 
after a successful revolution, this booklet was used a few months later 
to form the basis for the now famous Declaration of Independence. Of the 
fifty-six signatures, eight of the signatories are known to have been 
Masons while twenty-four others are also claimed by the Masons to be of 
their own (Knight 1983, 34). 

America was no longer a British colony but a Masonic Republic: Plato 
would have been delighted. The problem with Plato's Republic however, is 
that the "wise men" form a one-party government in which there are no 
checks and balances. Many people in America at this time knew that this 
was simply inviting trouble and insisted on an opposition party. A 
right-wing Democratic party was formed, however, since that time, both 
parties have slipped progressively further to the left and today the 
Democratic party has overtaken the Republican in its quest for the left. 

It was mentioned earlier that the craft Masons looked to the early 
Egyptians as masters of their craft but at the same time the speculative 
Masons saw in early Egyptian government an ideal closely approaching 
that of Plato's republic. The Egyptian pyramid epitomized both ideals: 
extreme skill and a hierarchy of power. In choosing the Great (Cheops) 
pyramid for the reverse side of the Great Seal of America. Would it be 
idle speculation to suggest that the missing capstone of this pyramid 
representsthe elite, the three final and secret degrees, seeing but not 
being seen? The Great Seal of the United States was designed in 1789 and 
it was American President and 32-degree Mason, Franklin Delano 
Roosevelt, who commissioned the Great Seal to be placed on the back of 
the one dollar bill in 1935. The reverse side of the Seal shows the 
Great pyramid with the capstone replaced by the all-seeing eye and the 
Latin caption which proclaims: "1776: 


In this year began the New World Order". The French Revolution was a 
contrived affair from the beginning with many of the same prime movers 
as in the American Revolution thirteen years earlier. The difference was 
that by 1789 every Protestant had been driven from France and the Roman 
Church was fully in control whereas America had become the home to many 
of the persecuted Protestants. A food shortage was engineered in Paris 
and the people incited to revolt against authority. The focal point was 
a great prison house, the Bastille, which was said to contain many 
hundreds of their compatriots. On July 14th, 1789 the mob stormed the 
Bastille only to find it occupied by seven dirty old men; one of them 
was the Marquis De Sade who well deserved to be there! A hollow victory 
but one which has been celebrated by Frenchmen now for 200 years. 

The story of the French Revolution ha s been told many times and has 
been vilified and glorified according to every writer's viewpoint. For 
those who find comfort in the thought of living in a Socialist Republic, 
the French Revolution was the most wonderful thing that could have 
happened. Liberty, equality and just fraternity were promised but what 
did the promises really mean?  Liberty from God, equality for all except 
the ruling elite and fraternity such as may be found in a thieve's 
kitchen! We might also recall that the Russian people have lived under a 
Socialist Republic ever since their revolution in 1918. Royalty was 
beheaded and the church defrocked and drummedout. Priests had the 
choice: publicly renounce their faith or accept the guillotine. Churches 
were closed, bibles publicly burned and within three short years the 
country had moved from Catholicism to atheism to paganism. Pantheism and 
Nature worship had replaced whatever vestige of Christianity there was 
in France in a matter of months. With a zeal to completely change th 
eentire order of things, the Metric system was introduced in 1793 and 
attempts were also made at this time to metricate time itself with a 
ten-day week. Fortunately, the long-suffering Frenchman refused this but 
the idealists have been trying to introduce the ten-day week with every 
revolution since; it has never been successful. 

The first French Republic was a failure and so was the second; 
eventually, the 'wise-men' turned out to have feet of clay and Napoleon 
Bonaparte was invited to rule over the brave new Republic. He was not 
even a Frenchman and was generally regarded by the Christian world as 
the Antichrist himself. 

Napoleon was a diabolically clever megalomaniac and Mason who knew just 
what he was about. He led thousands of the best of the nation 's young 
men to their death in a futile attempt to bring the World under one 
Republican rule. Lord Acton in his Essays on the French Revolution 
wrote: "The appalling thing in the French Revolution is not the tumult 
but the design. Through all the fire and the smoke we perceive the 
evidence of calculating organization. The managers remain studiously 
concealed and masked; but there is no doubt about their presence from 
the first" (Webster 1969, ix). 

The managers are still there, still manipulating with one steadfast 
purpose: to destroy the existing order and install in its place a one 
World Republic. If we have any doubts about the identity of the managers 
we have only to look to the statue of Liberty in New York harbour. 
Presented in 1884 as a gift from the Masons of France to the Masons of 
America in celebration of the centenary of the first Masonic Republic 
and liberty from the laws of God. At the great bicentenary celebrations 
in Paris on July 14th 1989, it was no coincidence that the G7 Conference 
was held there at the same time. Today's managers were there: 
M.JacquesDelors, the President of the ECC, Helmut Kohl, President Bush 
and the others, many known to be Masons, lined up for the publicity 
photograph. A typical Masonic touch was the backdrop to the picture: a 
large pyramid especially erected for the occasion. 

1992 will see the dissolution of European and British national 
sovereignty and the making of one monolithic European Republic.  
Government will no doubt still have the appearance of being democratic 
with opposition parties but, in fact, there will be only token 
opposition because every party, no matter what the name, will be as it 
is today, stacked with like-minded individuals and with one Masonic 
objective. Welcome to Plato's Brave New World. 

REFERENCES 

Bernal, Martin. 1987. Black Athena .Volume 1.   London: Free Association 
Books. 

Calvert, Albert. 1917. The Grand Lodge of England:1717-1917. London: 
Herbert Jenkins Ltd. 

Gould, Robert F. 1904. A Concise History of Freemasonry. London: Gale 
and Polden. 

Knight, Stephen. 1983. The Brotherhood . London: Grenada Publications. 

Webster, Nesta. [1919] 1969. The French Revolution . Reprint. Hawthorne, 
CA.: Christian Book Club of America. 

Confirmatory evidences are invited, please send them to: TFE Publishing 
P.O. Box 5015, Station F Toronto, Ontario CANADA M4Y 2T1 

Copyright TFE Publishing 1989 

                               End of Text
                               ***********


