===========[ The Christian BBS - 604-478-2789 - 24 Hrs - 8,N,1 ]=========== 
The following file has been put up, though not necessarily done by Dave 
Geauvreau who is the Sysop of "The Christian BBS," and can be contacted for 
more information by phoning the bulletin board at (604)-478-2789, or the 
voice line at (604)-478-0254, or by writing to 3053 Metchosin Rd., 
Victoria, B.C., Canada - V9B 4Y9! All donations if by check are to be to 
"The Christian BBS," and please note that finances do not allow me to 
accept long distance charges and return mail must be pre-postaged paid. 
=========================================================================== 


                                FREEMASONRY 
                              A GRAND CHAPLAIN 
                                 SPEAKS OUT 

                                GRAND LODGE 
                          FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS 
                                   OF THE 
                             STATE OF NEW YORK 

 GRAND CHAPLAIN 
 1983-1984 
 REV. HARMON R. TAYLOR 

                             NOVEMBER 25, 1984 

Dear Servant of God, 

Knowing that you desire to serve the Lord with all your heart, I share this 
letter with you.  Perhaps you have been struggling with the same situation.  
On November 22nd, I sent the facts contained in this letter to all masonic 
bodies of which I am a member.  I invite you to prayerfully read it.  It 
will explain why I as a Grand Chaplain of the Grand Lodge of Free and 
Accepted Masons of the State of New York am requesting a demit from all 
bodies of the masonic fraternity.  There is much more that I could share.  
I would be happy to share more if it will help you in the Lord's service. 

Many have asked me if Freemasonry is a religion.  I have always responded 
"No".  Others have told me that it is a religion.  Study has revealed the 
fact that learned writers in the fraternity say MASONRY IS A RELIGION.  The 
Lord Jesus Christ said, "In the mouth of two or three witnesses, every word 
is established" (Matthew 18:16).  In order to be brief, I will quote only 
four masonic authorities that masonry is a religion. 
 
Albert Mackey, one of the most well known masonic authorities, wrote in A 
LEXICON OF FREEMASONRY (Pg. 402): "The religion, then, masonry, is pure 
theism...". 

Albert Pike, the most important of all American masonic authorities wrote 
in MORALS AND DOGMA (Pg. 213-214): "Every masonic lodge is a temple of 
religion, and its teachings are instructions in religion...this is true 
religion revealed to the ancient patriarchs; which masonry has taught for 
many centuries, and which it will continue to teach as long as time 
endures. 

J.S.M. Ward, a masonic authority who has written several important books on 
masonry, wrote in his book FREEMASONRY: ITS AIMS & IDEALS (Pg.185): "I 
consider freemasonry is a significantly organized school of mysticism to be 
entitled to be called a religion."  Ward continues on page 187, 
"Freemasonry...taught that each man can by himself, work out his own 
conception of god and thereby achieve salvation."  It holds that there are 
many paths that lead to the throne of the all-loving father which all start 
from a common source.  Freemasonry believes, according to Ward, "that 
though these paths appear to branch off in various directions, yet they all 
reach the same ultimate goal, and that to some men, one path is better and 
to other, another. 

"Frank C. Higgins, a high mason, wrote in ANCIENT FREE MASONRY (Pg.10), "It 
is true that Freemasonry is the parent of all religionl" 

These masonic witnesses all agree in their doctrine that masonry is, 
indeed, a religion.  It is necessary now to ascertain whether masonry is a 
true religion or a false religion.  In an article entitled, "HOW TO 
RECOGNIZE A FALSE RELIGION" (Faith for the Family Nov/Dec 1974),  a 
prominent Christian leader wrote: "All false religions,have some things in 
common.  Here are three simple tests by which any religion should be 
judged; 
 
FIRST: What is its attitude toward the Bible? 

SECOND: Any religious teaching should be tested by this question; What is 
its attitude toward Jesus Christ? 

THIRD: In judging a religious system, we should ask, What is its attitude 
toward the blood of Jesus Christ!" 

According to these three tests, masonry is a false religion manifesting a 
satanic attitude toward the Bible, the Deity of Jesus Christ, an dht eblood 
atonement of Jesus Christ.  In order to establish this charge, keep in mind 
the Wordo our Lord Jesus Christ who said, "In the mouth of two or three 
witnesses every word shall be established.  Please consider now the 
testimony of masonic authorities which reveal masonry's satanic attitude 
toward the Bible, the Deity of Jesus Christ and the vicarious atonement for 
the sins of mankind by the shedding of christ's blood on the cross. 

Joseph Ford Newton, a famous authority and writer, in an article entitled 
"The Bible and Masonry" wrote "The bible so rich in symbolism is itself a 
symbol...thus, by the very honor which masonry pays the Bible, it teaches 
us to revere every book of faith in which men find help for today and hope 
for tomorrow, joining hands with the man of Islam as he takes his oath on 
the Koran, with the Hindu as he makes covenant with God upon the book that 
he loves best." 

Albert Pike, in Morals & Dogma, wrote (Pg.718) "Masonry propagates no creed 
except it's own most simple sublime one; that universal reigion, taught by 
nature and reason." 

One who is truly born-again can see from the above statement that masonry 
totally rejects the doctrine of an infallible, God-breathed, inerrant 
Bible. 

According to the Second Test, masonry is a false religion because it 
totally rejects the crucial doctrine of the Deity of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

J.D. Buck, M.D., another masonic writer of importance, in his book 
Symbolism of Mystic Masonry wrote (Pg.57) "In the early Church as in the 
secret doctrine, there was not one Christ for the world but a potential 
Christ in every man.  Theologians first made a fettish of the impersonal, 
Omnipresent divinity; and then tore the Christos from the hearts of all 
humanity in order to Deify Jesus; that they might have a God-Man 
particularly their own." 

One would have to look far and wide in the writings of false teachers to 
find statements more blasphemous than this about the person of Jesus 
Christ, my Lord. 

According to the Third Test, masonry is a fase religion because masonry 
dogmatically rejects the doctrine of salvaion from the penalty of sin by 
faith in the vicarious atonement of Christ's shed blood on the cross. 

Thomas Milton Steward, another masonic author, in his book Symbolic 
Teaching on Masonry and Its Message, to support his doctrine quoted 
favorable an apostate Episcopal minister who wrote (Pg.177), "Did Jesus 
count Himself, conceive of Himself as a proprietary sacrifice and of His 
work as an expiation?  The only answer possible is, clearly, He did 
not...He does not call Himself the world's priest, or the world's victim." 

Salvation by Faith in the vicarious atonement are not "ingnorant 
perversions of the original doctrines" as masonry teaches, but they are 
vital ingredients of the Glorious Gospel of Christ, which is the power of 
God unto Salvation to everyone who believes.  THEREFORE, masonry fails all 
three tests.  It manifests a satanic attitude toward the Bible, the Deity 
of Christ, and the vicarious atonement.  In addition to failing these 
tests, there is much more proof that masonry is a false religion. 

For instance, Henry C. Clausen,  33 decree, Sovereign Grand Commander of 
the Supreme Council 33 Decree mother council of the world, in the NEW AGE, 
November, 1970, (Pg.4) wrote regarding masonry, "It is dedicated to 
bringing about the Fatherhood of God, the Brotherhood of Man, and making 
better men in a better world."  

The doctrine of the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man is not 
found in the Bible.  It is a doctrine taught consistently by apostates.  
Also, the Bible makes it crystal clear that no organization, masonry 
included, can make better men.  Only God can make better men! 

According to a masonic creed, found in the Masonic Bible, masonry teaches 
that "character determines destiny." 

The teaching that character determines destiny is a false doctrine of the 
Arch Deceiver of Souls.  The Bible says, "There is none that doeth good," 
and "For by Grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; 
it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast." 

Masonry is anti-Christian in its teachings.  For example, J.M. Ward in 
FREEMASONRY - ITS AIMS AND IDEALS wrote (Pg.187), "I boldly avere that 
freemasonry is a religion, yet it no way conflicts with any other religion, 
unless that religion holds that no one outside its portals can be saved."  
Ward, in his statement, reveals the fact that masonry has no conflict with 
any apostate religion on the face of the earth, but he also reveals that 
masonry is in conflict with Christianity.  The Bible says, "Neither is 
there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven 
given among men whereby we MUST be save" (Acts 4:12).  Jesus said, "No man 
cometh unto the Father but by Me."  (Jn. 14:6).  The Bible is plainly 
teaching that there is only one way to heaven and the is Christ. 

A prominent college president said of masonry, "It is a luciferian 
religion.  We are fully aware of its diabolical origin and purpose.  I 
believe that any born-again Christian, when the facts from the lips of 
masonic writers themselves are presented showing that masonry is a religion 
and is the worship of Satan, will immediately withdraw."  To this I must 
add my hearty agreement! 

The God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ, the only True and Living God, 
has clearly commanded Christian, "Be ye not unequally yolked together with 
unbelievers, and swear not at all, and have no fellowship with the 
unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them." 

Charles Finney, the famed evangelist who God used to bring a revival in 
America in the 1830's, in his book, FREEMASONRY wrote (Pg.115), "Surely, if 
masons really understood what Masonry is, as it is delineated in these 
books, no Christian Mason would think himself to remain at liberty to 
remain another day a member of the fraternityl.  It is as plain as possible 
that a man knowing what it is, and embracing it in his heart, cannot be a 
Christian man.  To say he can is to belie the very nature of Christianity." 

For me, the signs of the time compared with prophetic Scripture, make it 
apparent that we are livin in the last days prior to the Rapture of the 
Church.  Satan is hard at work trying to hinder believers' spiritual 
growth, as well as trying to keep the unsaved from entering God's Family.  
Freemasonry, I have come to believe, is one of Satan's master deceptions.  
Many ministers, elders, deacons, trustees, and Sunday School teachers 
belong to this cult.  Today, my membership ends!  Today, a new ministry 
begins.  There is a tremendous need to scrutinize the cultic nature of 
Freemasonry in view of the massive infiltration of its effects on the 
working body of the Church.  It should be exposed to the True Light - Jesus 
Christ! 
 
                      Love in Christ, Harmon R. Taylor 

 FOR INFORMATION CONTACT REV. HARMON R. TAYLOR 
 BOX 12 NEWTONVILLE, NY 12128 
 
 OR 

 FREE THE MASONS MINISTRIES 
 P.O. BOX 1077 
 ISSAQUAH, WA 98027 





