From: Peter Trei <ptrei@mitre.org>
Subject: Pamphlet: Freemasonry as a way of Life.


     What follows the <FF> is  a  verbatim  copy of a booklet printed for
     distribution  to prospective members of Masonry.    It  attempts  to
     explain what Masonry is about and to  address  many  of  the popular
     myths.
     
     It was published by the Most Worshipful Grand  Lodge of Ancient Free
     and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in 1980 (so
     the numbers are somewhat dated).
     
                           FREEMASONRY--A WAY OF LIFE
        
     The Fraternity of Ancient Free  and  Accepted  Masons is the oldest,
     largest, amd most widely known fraternal organization in the world. 
        
     Literally thousands of  books have been published about Freemasonry,
     but its organization and philosophy are still misunderstood by many.
     
     This  folder  therefore  has  been  prepared  to  present    correct
     information for everyone and thereby dispel incorrect beliefs.
     
     HISTORICAL SKETCH
     
     In a broad sense, the history  of  Freemasonry  may  be divided into
     three periods, namely:  the ancient or  legendary,  the  medieval or
     operative, and the modern or speculative.
     
     The ancient or legendary period has been traced by historians to the
     Tenth Century B.C.  when masons, or stone workers, were  employed in
     the  building  of  King  Solomon's  Temple.   During the medieval or
     operative period,  guilds or associations of artisans were formed as
     operative masons.   Their  work was largely confined to the building
     of  cathedrals.  As  artificers  in  stone,  these  masons  traveled
     through  Europe making use of  their  skill  and  secrets  of  their
     guilds.
     
     The modern or speculative period occurred  during  the 17th Century.
     It was then that ecclesiastical building declined.  This caused many
     guilds of stonemasons, then known as "Operative Masons" to accept as
     members  those  who were not a part of the  mason's  craft.    These
     members were then called "Speculative," and acquired the designation
     of "Accepted Masons."
     
     As a  result  of this significant development, Freemasonry, as it is
     known today, had its historic beginning.
     
     In 1717 four Lodges of Freemasons meeting in London, England, formed
     the first Grand Lodge in the world.    This  Grand  Lodge  chartered
     Masonic  Lodges  and  Provincial  Grand  Lodges  in many  countries,
     including the United States.
     
     MASONRY IN MASSACHUSETTS
     
     Regular  and duly constituted Freemasonry in North America was  born
     in Massachusetts in 1733.  It was on July 30 of that year in Boston,
     that  Henry    Price    organized  the  Provincial  Grand  Lodge  of
     Massachusetts at the  famous  Bunch of Grapes Tavern.  This followed
     the issuance of a deputation in April 1733 by the Mother Grand Lodge
     of England appointing Henry Price  the  "Provincial  Grand Master of
     New England and Dominions and Territories thereunto belonging."
     
     The Grand Lodge  of  Masons  in  Massachusetts is the administrative
     authority  for  the  Masonic   Lodges  within  the  Commonwealth  of
     Massachusetts as well as Lodges  located  in  the Canal Zone, Chile,
     China, Japan, and Caribbean Naval Base Guantanamo Bay, Cuba;  with a
     membership of approximately 95,000.
     
     MASONRY AROUND THE WORLD
     
     There  are  approximately  6,000,000 Masons who are members of about
     150 Grand Lodges in the world today.  Of these, there  are  49 Grand
     Lodges  in  the  United  States with a membership of about 4,000,000
     Masons.
     
     A MASONIC LODGE
     
     The basic  unit  of  all Grand Lodges is the Masonic Lodge, commonly
     referred to by  its  members  as  the  "Blue  Lodge."  This is where
     Masonry operates on a  local  level  under  the  Jurisdiction of its
     Grand Lodge.  It is here that the Masonic Lodge receives and acts on
     petitions  for  membership  in Freemasonry, and  confers  the  three
     Symbolic Degrees known as the Entered Apprentice,  Fellow Craft, and
     Master Mason Degrees.
     
     MEMBERSHIP
     
     Membership in Freemasonry is limited to adult males  without  regard
     to race, color, or creed, who are of good character and reputation.  
     
     Information concerning membership must be requested by a man  of his
     own free will and accord, from one one he believes  to  be  a Mason.
     This  is necessary because Freemasonry does not solicit members, nor
     can a  Mason  invite  a  friend  to  join.   All inquiry is strictly
     voluntary on the part of the applicant.  Then he must be recommended
     by a member of  the  Masonic Lodge to which he is seeking admission.
     When  his  application  is favorably  received  by  the  Lodge,  the
     applicant must be given a unanimous ballot before he can receive the
     Degrees.
     
     A VIEW OF FREEMASONRY
     
     Freemasonry is many  things, but one brief description could be that
     it  is a society  for  the  joint  effort  of  its  members  towards
     individual  self-improvement,  a  fraternity  for    learning    and
     culivating the art of living and the building of character.
     
     It is  not a club, nor a mutual benefit or insurance society.  It is
     not an organization  or  a forum for political or social reform, and
     profit is not one of its motives, although members of the Fraternity
     do share in the many services and charity that are afforded them.
     
     The principles of Freemasonry are steadfastly acclaimed as Brotherly
     Love, Relief and Truth.  In  its  teachings great emphasis is placed
     on  the  cardinal  virtues  of  all ages:    Temperance,  Fortitude,
     Prudence, Justice, Faith, Hope, and Charity.  Its ethical principles
     can be accepted by all good men, and tolerance toward all mankind is
     embraced by the entire membership.
     
     MASONIC SECRECY!
     
     Freemasonry  is  secret  only  in  the  manner  by which one  member
     recognizes  another,  and its method of symbolic instruction.  It is
     not a secret society, but a society with secrets.  Freemasonry makes
     no attempt to conceal its existence, its principles, its purpose, or
     its aim.  Its  members  proudly  declare their affiliation.  Masonic
     buildings are publicly located and  clearly  identified.  Gatherings
     of its members are frequently public with announcements published in
     the press.  Its Constitutions are printed  for  any  to see, and its
     rules and regulations are available for inspection.
     
     IS MASONRY A RELIGION?
     
     Though religious in character, Masonry is  not  a  religion,  nor  a
     substitute  for one.  It fosters belief  in  a  Supreme  Being--this
     being a prerequisite for membership.  Freemasonry accepts  good  men
     who  are  found  to  be  worthy,  regardless  of  their    religious
     convictions, and strives to make better men of them by emphasizing a
     firm  belief  in the Fatherhood of God, the Brotherhood of Man,  and
     the Immortality of the Soul.
     
     A good Mason is invariably  a  better  church  member, and a regular
     church attendant makes a better Mason.   Religious men go to church,
     not to their Lodge, to worship God.   They go to their Masonic Lodge
     to learn moral truths and how to apply  them  to their everyday home
     and business lives.
     
     A WAY OF LIFE
     
     Freemasonry is Charity for all mankind; practice of the Golden Rule;
     love of country; serving God with reverence; treating  the  home and
     family with tenderness and affection; being humble; helping the weak
     and  lowly; adherence to the cardinal virtues; and greeting everyone
     on the same level of human understanding.  All these, and many other
     ways constitute
     
                          FREEMASONRY AS A WAY OF LIFE
