Upgrading for Astra 1D                (set your page width 78)             
          October 1995
<---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
This article is Copyright 1995 M T Pickering
You may store or print it for your own use but you may not publish it
without permission from the author and you may not sell it.
<---------------------------------------------------------------------------->


Astra 1D is the fourth Astra satellite. The satellites sit together in a
tight cluster out in space (see the promotional video if it is still being
broadcast).

Each satellite broadcasts 16 or more channels.
Each satellite transmits these channels within a certain band of
frequencies.

Astra 1E uses the highest band. 1F is also planned.
Astra 1C uses a high band.
Astra 1B uses a lower band
Astra 1A uses a still lower band
Astra 1D uses the lowest

The old, standard LNB is designed to amplify channels in the middle three
bands.
Some can also amplify channels in the lowest (1D) band but the tuner in
your old receiver probably can't tune low enough to receive them. (Some
receivers can just about tune down to the TOP channel of Astra 1D but no
further).

There are several ways of getting to watch these 1D channels:

Some receivers can't tune lower but they can tune HIGHER. If the numbers in
your tuning display go up to 11.990 then you may be in luck. An "Enhanced"
LNB not only amplifies the 1D channels but it also sends ALL channels down
the cable at a higher frequency. It effectively shifts them all higher by a
count of 250.

So if you fit an "Enhanced" LNB to your dish and tune EVERY channel higher
by 250, you should be able to receive every channel listed, or at least
from NBC Super Channel near the bottom of 1D up to CNN International near
the top of Astra 1C band.

(For example, with your standard LNB you will find CNN tuned to
approximately 11.627 but with an "Enhanced" LNB you must retune to 11.877 -
that is 250 higher. Do this for every channel and the job is done. An
hour's work with a calculator.

Examples of receivers which will work with an "Enhanced" LNB are:

Most Pace SS9200 and derivatives (GIRD3000, SAT1600, BUSH IRD150).
Any Pace PRD800 or 900 which has "2GHz" on the serial number label
underneath -
(Otherwise a small modification may be needed to extend the range)
Almost any receiver whose tuning display goes to 11.999 or higher.
Receivers built in 1995 or later. You may need to change the Installation
Menu LNB Offset from 10.00 to 9.75 or 09.75 in the case of Grundig
GRD150/250.

(Some receivers such as PRD800/900 can have "Enhanced" software fitted so
that the frequency display is correct with an "Enhanced" LNB. In addition,
a PRD800 can be given 199 channels instead of 120. This is also true for
the Amstrad SRD510).

Even if your receiver will not tune high enough, you can still use an
"Enhanced" LNB but you will lose the higher channels, such as Sky Sports,
UK Gold, CMT and CNN.

However, you can get these channels back by fitting a "Global ADX Plus".
When it is switched ON it shifts all the channels DOWN by a count of 500.
So it counteracts the effect of the "Enhanced" LNB which has shifted them
UP by 250.

The "ADX Plus" connects between the satellite receiver and the LNB cable.
There are various ways of switching it ON and OFF, dependent on your
satellite receiver. I won't go into this; just assume that you use the
ON/OFF switch on the "ADX Plus". With a paperclip you have to push in a
little internal switch when you first fit it.

With the "Enhanced" LNB fitted to the dish, tune ALL channels 250 higher,
except channels which are above Sky Movies. Tune these top channels 250
LOWER.
To watch these top channels you will need to switch the "ADX Plus" ON. For
the rest of the channels switch it OFF.

You CAN watch some Astra 1D channels if you use a Standard LNB.
You have to fit an ADX which will shift the channels UP by a count of 500
when it is ON.
All your existing channels remain tuned the same with the ADX off. You
don't need to alter them. Starting with a channel number higher than those
already in use, you can tune in the Astra 1D channels. With the ADX
switched ON, tune all the Astra 1D channels by a count of 500 higher than
the magazine listing says. Switch the ADX ON when you want to watch these
channels. Switch it OFF when you want to watch your existing channels. (In
fact, you don't really need to tune in extra channels for astra 1D. When
you switch the ADX on you will find that they appear instead of some of the
existing ones).

The main drawback of using your old standard LNB is that it was not
designed to amplify the Astra 1D channels. Some channels may be so sparkly
as to be unwatchable.
---------------------------------
Confused?      It will be much clearer when you actually try it!

Martin Pickering
Technical Author.
Repairer of receivers, decoders and handsets.
Supplier of spare parts for satellite receivers.
100613,2105@compuserve.com




