read new nonstop follow
86724 10-APR 21:28 General Information
     OSK USER
     From: JPOTTAGE     To: ALL

     I have been meaning to write this for about four weeks now, but never
quite got around to it. Anyways, here goes, I have upgraded to a PT68K4
from peripheral technology. It's a great system! Currently I have a 40 meg
hard drive (MFM), 2 meg memory, and a 3 1/2 inch high density drive. The
system runs from a cybernex xl87 terminal and is linked through the
t1 port to a coco 3 (eliminator with a 9600 baud modem, 20 meg drive, 24
pin printer etc). I use netlink (by Keith Alphonso) to access the modem and
printer from the 68K4 machine and this runs fine using info express. The 68K4
system runs wonderfully. After a few minor problems with hooking it up and
ensuring I had the proper software, everything runs fine. I also must note
that the people from Peripheral Technology were very helpful with answering
my questions and with replacing one of the disks that I could not access.
I believe this is a good machine for anyone who wishes to upgrade from the
Coco but does not want to pay a great deal.

     As well, I have some parts for the COCO 3 that I am willing to sell:

1. Slot Pak III (multi Pak replacement) - $50
2. 1200 Baud modem - $15
3. WD 1002-shd cntrl for disto SCII - $30
4. Hard drive power supply and case - $30
5. MEB adapter for disto cards - $15
6. RS232 PAK (DC modem converted) - $35
7. COCO DISK Drive case and power supply (2 drive case but no drives or
                                          controller - $15
8. COCO single drive case, full hieght drive and controller - TRS 80
                                  Controller (COCO I) - $25

To order, contact JPOTTAGE by email,

As well, add $5 for shipping cost to each order.



                                           o o
                                            U
                                           \_/
                                     / Jim Pottage \

-*-

86725 10-APR 21:29 General Information
     RE: SCSI tape drive (Re: Msg 86721)
     From: COLORSYSTEMS To: WA2EGP (NR)

 > Archive Viper has 150/250 meg storage capacity.  Mark only sell them for
 > the MM/1 but if you ask nice, he might give you some basic info on that
 > drive.

I bought a 2150 from Mark, a 250 Mb drive. It is my impression that the
drivers which came with it should work with any standard OSK system, MM/1
or otherwise. Of course, I could be wrong, and the authoriative source,
Mark himself, will undoubtedly set the record straight as soon as he sees
this thread!!! <grin>

btw, As I said in private email to the original requestor of this info,
I like my 2150. With it I can do compelte backups of both of my 7213S
200 Mb Maxtors on my MM/1a in less than a couple of hours.


 ------------------------------------
  Zack C Sessions

  "We did not inherit the Earth from our Ancestors,
     we borrowed it from our descendants."           Ancient proverb


-*-

86726 10-APR 21:30 General Information
     RE: workspace (Re: Msg 86717)
     From: COLORSYSTEMS To: DONALDS (NR)

 > Could someone help me with my workspace? when I first signed on to Delphi
 > I was learning my way around and I think I created a file in my workspace
 > that I now can not get rid of or cannot even reduce in size. it showsup
 > as  MAIL.MAI   35/35 blocks   - I have deleted this  and get cannot
 > delete because it has private messages in it goto mail and extract. Well I
 > go to mail and do EXTRACT and it says I am not reading anything.  I can
 > delete the file MAIL.MAI from the workspace but it will return the nxt
 > time I get any mail.  How can I reduce the size of this or fully delete
 > it? I have tried most everything.

Isn't there a FAQ on the MAIL.MAI file? I know I've posted at least three
lengthy explanations of this file over the years I have been on Delphi.

Delphi is a computer based subscriber service which runs on a computer
system known as a VAXCluster from Digital Equipment Corp (DEC). It is
running an operating system known as VMS (Virtual Memory System). All
users on Delphi are actually VMS interactive users. But they are special
types of users which VMS supports known as "captive users". They are users
who automatically, when they successfully login, run a specialized
application, in this case a "BBS" style software package which supports
forums, libraries and the like.

One service Delphi offers to its subscribers is Electronic Mail. We can
send electronic mail messages to other Delphi subscribers and now we can
even send electronic mail to any addressee in the Internet. To make
the BBS software easier to manage (I suppose) TPTB at Delphi decided to
utilize the builtin electronic mail capability which is inherent to VMS
on DEC VAXen.

So, when a Delphi subscriber runs MAIL and you see the "MAIL>" prompt, you
are actually now running the standard MAIL utility which comes standard
on every VAX which is running VMS. This utility stores your messages
in a special file MAIL.MAI in your workspace. Sometimes, when you receive
larger messages, only the "header" information of the message is actually
stored in the MAIL.MAI file, while the text of the message is stored in
a special external file called MAIL$xxxxxxxxxx.MAI or somesuch.

You should try to endeavour to keep your mail folder cleaned up. Delete
ALL messages. If you want to keep a message, EXTRACT it (you have to be
READing it first) and download the extracted file from your workspace.
(Don't forget to delete the extracted file after downloading it!!)
Alternatively, you can EXTRACT/ALL to extract all messages in the SELECTed
folder into a single extracted file.

As you DELETE messages, the space they occupy in the MAIL.MAI file is not
actually reused, it is only "marked for delete". (If the message was large
enough to have had its text portion extracted into a MAIL$xxxxxxxx.MAI file,
of this marked for delete space currently is, just enter a SHOW ALL command
at the MAIL> prompt. You can get this space back by running a COMPRESS command
at the MAIL> prompt. (After doing this, though, you need to get out of mail,
go to your workspace and delete the file MAIL.OLD.)

TPTB at Delphi are well aware of how VMS MAIL works, and when they are
running the billing program on your account, the perform an automatic
compress operation for you on your MAIL.MAI file BEFORE they add up your
current disk space usage. So, if you keep your mail file clean of messages,
you should never be charged for space used by your MAIL.MAI file.

One last note, even an empty MAIL.MAI file takes up some space, but it is
well below the amount of free space Delphi gives all users.

Hope this helps!


 ------------------------------------
  Zack C Sessions

  "We did not inherit the Earth from our Ancestors,
     we borrowed it from our descendants."           Ancient proverb


-*-

86727 10-APR 21:39 General Information
     RE: workspace (Re: Msg 86726)
     From: COLORSYSTEMS To: COLORSYSTEMS

 > As you DELETE messages, the space they occupy in the MAIL.MAI file is not
 > actually reused, it is only "marked for delete". (If the message was
 > large enough to have had its text portion extracted into a
 > MAIL$xxxxxxxx.MAI file, of this marked for delete space currently is, just
 > enter a SHOW ALL command at the MAIL> prompt. You can get this space back
 > by running a COMPRESS command at the MAIL> prompt. (After doing this,
 > though, you need to get out of mail, go to your workspace and delete the
 > file MAIL.OLD.)

Somehow, IX screwed up and portions of the previous paragraph should have
read, "If the message was large enough to have its text portion extracted
into an external file, then that file IS deleted when the message is.
To see how many marked for delete bytes you have in your MAIL.MAI file
just enter the SHOW ALL command at the "MAIL>" prompt.



 ------------------------------------
  Zack C Sessions

  "We did not inherit the Earth from our Ancestors,
     we borrowed it from our descendants."           Ancient proverb


-*-

86729 11-APR 00:44 General Information
     RE: workspace (Re: Msg 86717)
     From: COCOKIWI     To: DONALDS (NR)

you cannot delete the mail file in workshop,UNTIL you do something else first!
   goto MAIL......type COMPRESS......

   then   PURGE
..Typing del after reading mail helps a little....do a DIR to check up
then Purge it....THEN compress......makes the file smaller....you then
my find two Mail files in Workshop...DEL the one MAIL.OLD
you will ALLWAYS have a MAIL file in Workshop! Just clean it up every so often
Dennis

-*-

86730 11-APR 01:09 General Information
     RE: workspace (Re: Msg 86729)
     From: MITHELEN     To: COCOKIWI (NR)

Purgeing in mail is unnecessary, since the default setup for mail is to auto-
purge deleted messages when your leave mail. It is of course important
to delete old messages you do not want to save. you can see what old messages
are in your mail box file by typeinf DIR at the MAIL prompt...And then
DELETE # to delete the ones your don't want... Delphi also compresses your
mail filefor you once a month before it runs its billing program. So the
only real maintenance necessary for a user in mail is to just
remember to delete messages you don't want.
--
Paul

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

86728 11-APR 00:11 General Information
     RE: Disk backup (Re: Msg 86723)
     From: MODEL299     To: DSRTFOX (NR)

The SyQuest drives are great indeed.  I use an 88 Meg as /h1.  The only
reason it is not the primary drive is that I also use RGB-DOS and the
SyQuest drive does not seem to like the 256 byte sector size required.  The
speed of one of these is fantastic with the Scsisys drivers.  The most
significant advantage of this shows up when loading large sound files.
  Question: will you be at the Chicago show this year?  A while back we
exchanged some messages about the way my COCO is setup.  Another project
has (and is) keeping me very busy.  After the show it should much easier
to find time to do articles on it if you still want something like this.
   Mark

-*-

86731 11-APR 01:13 General Information
     RE: Infocom Games for OSK (Re: Msg 86708)
     From: JEVESTAL     To: ILLUSIONIST

 > :) I was thinking the same thing, would be nice playing hitchiker's while
 > DLing those big files (or when delphi decideds to take a nap on me) :)

Delphi does that to you too?  What I hate is when the internet link slows
down and dies during an ftp or telnet session!  I'm not very patient.

Jim

-*-

86732 11-APR 01:13 General Information
     RE: Infocom Games for OSK (Re: Msg 86710)
     From: JEVESTAL     To: BOISY

 > I suspect with a little effort, the code could be ported to OS-9 Level 2.
 > If someone is willing and doesn't have access to chestnut, I can provide
 > them with the source code.  Takers?

If I were more fluent in C I would try porting it myself.  But I'm
still learning the libraries and such.

Jim

-*-

86733 11-APR 01:13 General Information
     RE: Infocom Games for OSK (Re: Msg 86711)
     From: JEVESTAL     To: MITHELEN

 > If I get a sudden burst of programming energy... I'll give it a try. I've
 > got the source already at SandV (and even got the interpeter running
 > on my Sun) I made some nice little changes too.

Paul, that would be really cool if you could port it over... thanks
for considering it.

Jim

-*-

86734 11-APR 18:30 General Information
     RE: Infocom Games for OSK (Re: Msg 86731)
     From: ILLUSIONIST  To: JEVESTAL

Yeah, delphi is always slowing down on me.. and I am not patient either of
course, that is why I am using OS-9 rather than DOS, I cant stand waiting
arond, esp for a machine..
                                                        -* Mike

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

86735 11-APR 21:06 General Information
     Drives
     From: REVWCP       To: ALL

Dear Friends:
How many floppies can I control off of a Disto SC-2?  I have two 5-1/4's
 and I would like to add a 3-1/2 as well.
With all best wishes,
Brother Jeremy, CSJW
OS9 User's Group Treasurer

-*-

86736 11-APR 22:10 General Information
     RE: Drives (Re: Msg 86735)
     From: WDTV5        To: REVWCP

#3, Brother Jeremy, same as the regular controller, I've got 3 on one of
'em here, all 5.25", but 2 40's and one *80* that runs to about 84 real
nice, gives me 765k on that one. One of my local pc dealers had a kit I
rather liked, is a 3.5" in a 5.25 bracket with all adapters already
attached. 'bout $60 as I recall.  You might check around at your local
pc purveyer and see whats in the service dept. Cheers, Gene

-*-

86738 11-APR 22:31 General Information
     RE: Drives (Re: Msg 86736)
     From: JRUPPEL      To: WDTV5 (NR)

You might want to check at the local RS also. I recently picked up a new
80 track 3-1/2 Sony at the closeout table for $35! I found one of the RS
adapters in a closeout bin in another RS for $10 and I'm in business.
John

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

86737 11-APR 22:30 General Information
     New MM/1 Monitor
     From: BOISY        To: ALL

Hi All,

For those of you with MM/1's (or CoCo's for that matter) looking for a good
RGB Monitor, take a look at the Sony CDP-1302.  I bought one off the net
for my MM/1, and today it came in.  This monitor has a .25 dot pitch, a built
in swivel stand, 800x600 resolution, multisync and can handle analog or
digital signals.

The picture is remarkably clear and crisp.  Not only that, but in overscan mode,

no part of the picture is cut off.  Everything can be seen clearly, and fits on
the monitor screen quite nicely.  Flicker is still a present factor, though not
nearly as bad as it was on the Magnavox.

The only think lacking with this monitor is sound, and I plan to remedy that
soon by looking for a cheap amplifier/mixer combination.  I would be interested
in hearing from other MM/1 owners who use this type of sound system for their
computer.

-*-

86739 12-APR 00:40 General Information
     GOAL??
     From: REVWCP       To: ALL

Dear Friends:
On page 60 of the LJune 1991 issue of Rainbow, there was an add
for a program called GOAL (Graphics Oriented Assembly Language).
It was produced by American Computing Equipment of Louisville, KY.
Did this ever see the light of day?  Any information would be
appreciated.

With all best wishes,
Brother Jeremy, CSJW
OS9 User Group Treasurer

-*-


FORUM>Reply, Add, Read, "?" or Exit> 