read new nonstop follow
90192 3-OCT 00:18  General Information
     RE: ATLANTA FEST (Re: Msg 90191)
     From: CHARLESAM    To: DSRTFOX (NR)

Geez Frank, what kept you? You live right around the corner if I'm not
mistaken. I reformatted my Hard drive already. Now I have to reload it.
I'll never know how much material I lost. At least my HD is back in action.
Now I just have to install the second drive. The fest was fun and I met
some real good folks there(in person). I'll do it again if it happens next
year, and I believe it will. Later Charlie

-*-

90193 3-OCT 04:30  OSK Applications
     RE: Problems with XY/Z (Re: Msg 90174)
     From: EDELMAR      To: TIMKIENTZLE (NR)

 Tim,

 Haven't had a chance to really exercise your new versions of XY and Z.
 Don't expect to get to them for a couple of weeks.

 I did try to download your new TEX stuff.  First attempt was at 14400.
 Got 2,143,232 bytes of the latex_tar.gz file and then error'd out.  Time was
 1 hr 11 minutes.  Wasn't able to successfully download the 2 files following.

 This morning I logged in at 9600 and was able to successfully download
 latex_tar.gz, tar and gzip using XY.  Time for latex_tar.gz was 1 hr 13
 minutes.  Works out to about 5158 baud.

 Ed

-*-

90196 3-OCT 18:57  OSK Applications
     RE: Problems with XY/Z (Re: Msg 90174)
     From: MITHELEN     To: TIMKIENTZLE (NR)

I've used xyz a few times...So far, I can't recall any perticular problems
in the transfer part, alhough, I have noticed, that if frorked from
a shell (<ESC>S) in sterm, and you are at the bottem of the screen when you
start it, it will whipe out the transfer stats line when it finishes (ie. you
need to put in an extra CR or two to scroll the screen after it is done..)
--
Paul

-*-

90197 3-OCT 19:09  OSK Applications
     RE: Problems with XY/Z (Re: Msg 90174)
     From: JOHNBAER     To: TIMKIENTZLE (NR)


   Tim,

   Been using the Ymodem-G side to download from a doz BBS
that's local to me.. Works every time.  It does do some
hand shacking first, then down comes the files.

   Will get back to you later after I do some uploading
and see how that goes Tim.

   Haven't tryed the x/ymodem yet, as I saw your interest
in the ymodem-g side of it.  So far so good<g>.

--
   John -

   < Posted with Ved 2.3.1  &  IX 1.2.0 >


-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

90194 3-OCT 05:30  OSK Applications
     RE: New Tex Upload (Re: Msg 90173)
     From: EDELMAR      To: TIMKIENTZLE (NR)

 Tim,

 > Oops.  Yeah, you should create /dd/sys/tex/fonts/tfm/new, ...

 Found that one the hard way.  Another caveat - the directories created
 under 'tar' did not have their execution bits set.  I used the version of
 tar you provided.  Couldn't load the required programs when running the
 'install.script'.  Once the 'e' attributes were set, everything went fine.
 Ran 'sample' and 'short' through to my laser printer (has post script) -
 print out was fine.  'story' is missing something.  When runing 'latex story.
 tex', it comes up with '! Undefined control sequence' (and more).

 From your docs, I gather you've been working with TEX, fonts, etc. for quite
 a while and perhaps you can help me.  Is info available for extracting
 Adobe fonts?  What kind of license do they require?  How about the TEX fonts?
 I've talked to AGFA, Bitstream and Linotype - they want anywhere from
 $20,000 to $35,000 for a license.  I wasn't able to get through to the
 right people at Adobe Systems.  Need is two-fold - first for G-WINDOWS and
 secondly, for the FAX program I writing.

 From my investigation, I gather that most type faces are not copyrighted
 but font names are as are the methods of storing and extracting.  I haven't
 talked to my attorney about this yet but do you have any info on this?

 Ed

-*-

90195 3-OCT 18:51  General Information
     RE: Atlfest (Re: Msg 90168)
     From: MITHELEN     To: RICKULAND (NR)

Welp,,, I just woke up (well, about 40 minutes ago), after my 14 hour drive
back from Atlanta. You presence was truely missed Rick... Fortunately, I talked
Scott G. into rideing back with me, instead of useing the plane ticket he
already bought, otherwise, I would not have survived the trip, because, the
other two car loads of people from Chicago decided to stay another night...

As usual, the Fest was a great deal of Fun... And I ended up missing most
of the szemimars again (I did get to see the tail end of Kevin Darlings
seminar) At least I FIANLLY got to see the Stone Mountain Laser show this
year... For those that have never been to an Atlanta Fest. Hope that
they have one next year so you have an excuse to go down to see this Laser
Show!.. it is truely a spetacular event, and qworth ever penny of the 5$
parking fee.

I actually bought some software this year! Gold Runner 2000! What an EXCELLENT
new varation of an old classic... This is a MUST buy program for every MM/1
owner!

It was also verty cool to see a CDi machine actually running an OS-9 shell,
and playing around to see what was REALLY on the CDi disks...

Welp, I got to eat "breakfast", and go to work... I'll let someone else fill
in nore details....
--
Paul

-*-

90198 3-OCT 22:37  Programmers Den
     blobstopper
     From: WDTV5        To: ALL

Hi all, got one fur ya thats got me a bit puzzled. I grabbed the file
blobstop_v10.ar from chestnut last nite, a file which purports to be
the actual, we've been looking for it for 8 years now, blob killer.
Well, after splitting up the kernel and applying the patches to both
Boot and the disto cc3disk, I attempted to use "merge" to re-assemble
it. 7 flippin times! Each and every time, the os9p1 was trashed for
about 50 bytes starting at offset $D3F into the kernel file it made.
I screwed around for a couple of hours with it. Finally, in desperation,
I made the new kernel with "cpa" one file at a time for all 5 files
that are generated by my own vfy ed 11. That one vfy'd ok, and its
working right now.

Has anyone else ever had such a problem with merge? Edition 5, crc=6AD7A5

Just curious, its never done anything like that before, but it was
absolutely consistent in where it messed up the output file this
one time. 6 times that is.

Gene, WDTV5@delphi.com

-*-

90199 3-OCT 23:32  General Information
     UUCPbb 2.1 Announcement
     From: BOISY        To: ALL

UUCPbb v2.1 has been uploaded to the /incoming directory on
chestnut.cs.wisc.edu.  Shortly, it will be move to its permanent directory.

Due to differences in compression between the OS-9/68K and OS-9/6809 version
of LHA, we have decided to use the lowest common denominator for archiving.
Since OS-9/6809 LHA 2.11b and OS-9/68K LHA 2.01 generate compatible archive
files, these are the archivers that were used for this package.  For this
reason, OS-9/68K should use LHA 2.01 dearchive these files.

All the archives were created with LHA 2.11b.  To burst the archives under
OS-9/6809 you will either need LHA211 or UNLZH7.  Both are available on
chestnut.cs.wisc.edu and Delphi.

UUCPbb v2.0 made its debut back in April.  This update fixes most, I hope,
of the bugs reported to me since then.  This includes the mutant RNEWS which
got itself into v2.0.  Thanks to Brad Spencer, RNEWS was completely rewritten
making it a lot faster and more reliable.  The package is now completely user
configurable.  The only hard-coded directory is /DD/SYS/UUCP.


What UUCPbb is NOT
------------------
UUCPbb allows you to run a UUCP node on your OS-9 system.  UUCPbb is NOT a
terminal program.  UUCPbb is not a BBS program; although it could be
interfaced with one.  UUCPbb will NOT connect you to the Internet.  You can
make use of some systems which are on Internet and provide access via e-mail,
but you will not be on the Internet.  So, sorry, no FTP or SLIP.  These are
not part of UUCP.  (There are FTP mailservers on the net, so you still have
indirect access to FTP sites.)


So what the heck is it?
-----------------------
UCPbb is an update of the UUCP software Rick Adams wrote a few years ago for
the Tandy Color Computer 3 running OS-9 Level 2.  It gives you a way to hook
your CoCo or OSK machine to the world UUCP network for exchanging email, news
and files.  The original software has been extensively rewritten with many new
features added.  It was ported to OS-9/68K; although not to OS-9000--yet. ;-)
The features include:

   * Calling multiple systems from a single command line

   * Ability to process mail after each call, after all call (when calling
     more than one system), or not until a later time.

   * Retrying a call every few minutes if the initial call fails

   * Improved logging of call progress and error messages.

   * Tested with UUCPs on DEC Ultrix, Taylor (GNU), UUPC (MS-DOS), whatever
     UUNET Technologies uses, HoneyDanBer, and itself.

   * Improved mailer with lots more features.  In addition, Jeff Shepler's
     Elm-like mailer, Palm, is has been ported.

   * Software to let you read and send Usenet news.

   * Mini-listserver written and donated Rick.  (Thanks Rick!)
     Now you, too, can be a fileserver! :-)

   * Utilities to do UUCP administrative chores.


How much does it cost?
----------------------
Zilch...nada...nothing!  Thanks to Rick, UUCPbb is released as free software
under the GNU General Public License.


Where do I get it?
------------------
The official site for this and all updates will be the OS-9 archive site on
the Internet.  Right now, this chestnut.cs.wisc.edu.  It will also be posted
to Delphi, Compuserv and various landline BBS.  Official updates will always
show up on chestnut first.  It will probably be on the OS-9 mirror archive
site, wuarchive, after a short while.


What do I need?
---------------
For OS-9/6809, a 512K (128K may work but it hasn't been tested) CoCo 3 running
OS-9 Level 2, with a hard drive.  Floppies may work, but it will be painfully
slow (I know ran it on 720K *halting* floppy controller system!) a C compiler
if you will be compiling the source yourself.  Or you can get the "add water
and stir" executables.

For OSK, you need any OSK machine with either Microware's Ultra C or C
compiler ver3.2.  I received one report that GCC was also used to successfully
compile the code.

You need the following files in order to compile and run this software:

   uucpbb21.lzh         -the source code
   uub21doc.lzh         -documentation and miscellaneous files

Not required but a good idea for OS-9/6809:

   clib1990.lzh     -this is the 1990 edition of Carl Kreider's CLIB
   cc250.lzh        -latest replacement of Carl Kreider's C compiler executive


The "add water and stir" version for either OSK or the CoCo is a second
option.  Unfortunately, these executable files are rather large.  Sorry, there
is no real way to crunch them down significantly.

The CoCo executables were compiled both with and without termcap support.  The
OSK execuatables were compiled only with termcap support.

For OSK, you need the file:

   uub21osk.lzh         -executable modules for OS-9/68K

For the CoCo, you can choose between two files:

   uub21os91.lzh        -executable modules for OS-9/6809 with a 6809
   uub21os92.lzh        -executable modules for OS-9/6809 with a 6309

If you opt for the executable files, you will also need the docs archive.

Questions, comments, suggests and bug reports can be sent by e-mail to me.

Share and enjoy!  More is on its way! ;-)

     Bob <bob@kc2wz.bubble.org>

-*-


FORUM>Reply, Add, Read, "?" or Exit> 