              A   M I N D   F O R E V E R   V O Y A G I N G 
                                 (Infocom)

Before  you start to play this adventure, read the documentation thoroughly
so that you have an idea of what is going on and who you are.

The  game  itself  is very strange. There are actually very few problems. A
lot of the adventure is a mapping exercise!

PART ONE.
You  start  the adventure just after your awakening, being told by Perelman
that  the  simulation  to  test  the  plan can begin soon. Note the various
communications outlets at your disposal.

"PEOF"; you are now in Perelman's office. "Wait" till Perelman says you can
now  enter  simulation  mode.  The Social Science group wants you to record
several  things  which are listed for you. "Enter simulation"; use the code
wheel  from  the  packaging and you find yourself 10 years in the future in
Kennedy Park.

This  first  section  is to familiarise yourself with recording and also to
let  you  map  the  area.  This  map  will  form the basis for other future
simulations.   In  some  cases,  there  are  several  ways  to  record  the
information  required  in this simulation eg eating a meal in a restaurant,
as  there  are  several  you  can  visit. If your record buffer should fill
before  you  have  recorded  everything  you  want,  just "abort, PEOF, ask
Perelman  to look at recordings" and when he returns, he will tell you want
else he wants recorded.

The recording required are as follows.
(1)Eating  a  meal in a restaurant. Go to one, eg Roy's Pagoda. "Record on,
buy meal, record off".
(2)  Talking to a government official. Go to City Hall, "record on, talk to
official, record off".
(3)  Visiting  a  power-generating  facility.  Go  into  the power station,
"record  on,  look,  record  off".  (4) Reading a newspaper. Go to Bodanski
Square, "buy newspaper, record on, read newspaper, record off".
(5)  Riding  some  form  of  public  transportation.  Go down into the tube
system,  wait till a tubecar arrives. "Record on, enter tubecar, wait" till
the tubecar stops, "leave tubecar, record off".
(6)  Attending  a  court  in  session. Go into the court. "Record on, look,
record off".
(7) Talking to a church official. Go into a church eg St Michael's, "record
on, talk to elder, record off".
(8) Going to a movie. Go to the cinema , "record on, buy ticket, in, record
off".  (9)  Visiting  your  own  home  or living quarters. "Inventory, open
wallet,  read  licence"; you now know your address is Parkview Appartments,
Southway.  Go  there,  "unlock  door,  w,  unlock door, record on, n, look,
record off".

"Abort,  PEOF,  ask  Perelman  to  look at recordings". So long as you have
recorded  all  the  things  required, he will tell you that the experts are
pleased  and  it  looks  as though the Plan will be adopted. As a result of
your recordings, more accurate simulations will be possible in future.


PART 2.
At  the  start  of  this section, you will be asked to do some psych tests.
This is just a bit of fun, the answers don't mean anything so you can reply
whatever you want!

In  a  while,  Perelman  tells  you  the plan has been recommended for full
adoption  in  a  few weeks. But he says he has a funny feeling about it. If
you  "enter  simulation mode" now, you can go to either 10 or 20 years into
the future. So go into 20 (2051).

If you have a look around, you will see several things have changed and the
situation seems to be deteriorating. Record anything like this that you can
see  and every so often, return and show them to Perelman. If he wants more
recordings, go back into the simulation. Some things you can do are: "look"
at  Rockvil Reformatory, talk to the elder in the church, read a newspaper.
Go to the old station, it is now the Church of God's Word. "Look" there and
read  the  pamphlet.  Visit  the  soup  kitchen, Heiman's World, the police
station,  your  own  appartment.  Go  to  Huang Hall, the city dump, skycar
factory, courthouse.

When  you have spent enough time in the simulation and recorded enough, you
will  find a new simulation, 30 years into the future, is available. Do the
same  here  (2061).  Some useful recording for 2061 are: spend some time in
your  appartment  and  have  a  good look round, the soup kitchen, the city
dump,  the  skycar  factory,  Church  Street  Park,  the Health Centre, the
church,  read  the  pamphlet in the Church of God's Word, visit the school,
the  stadium,  the  reformatory  and Huang Hall. Go to Kennedy Park and the
airport terminal. Various incidents also happen on the streets.

In  a  similar  way, spending time and recording enough here will open a 40
year  simulation into 2071. Again, record changes and things that happen in
the  street. Visit your appartment, the zoo, read the banner in the zoo, go
to  the  aquarium,  fire  station,  stadium, bank, athletic field, airport,
cinema.

These  are  just  some  of  the  places  you  can  go  in  each simulation.
Eventually,  Perelman  asks  you  to  visit the last simulation in 2081, 50
years  in the future, to see if everything turns around. This simulation is
very  small and dangerous. Go into the inn, onto the bridge over the river,
examine the sack there, get eaten by dogs, or killed when you enter certain
locations.
Show  these  recordings to Perelman. He says the plan must be cancelled and
he's going to Washington!

PART 3.
At  the  start of this section, you're informed that a WNNF device is about
to  be  added to your auxiliary systems and will be online in 4 or 5 hours.
Perelman  returns  and  tells  you  that  he's  been  accused of faking the
recordings.  He goes to meet some colleagues. There is also a message given
to you that the complex has been sealed for security reasons.

"PEOF" and "wait" in Perelman's office. When Ryder enters, "record on"; you
make a recording of him threatening Perelman. Then Perelman is taken away.

Now  go  to  the  roof  with  "RCRO".  "Wait"  till some men arrive. "Enter
interface  mode"  and  "HVAC  controller,  turn  off  ventilation  in delta
sector".  "Enter communications mode, MACO"; in a while, the men arrive and
start  working  on  one  of  the  conditioning units that house your brain.
Eventually, the build up of fumes caused by you turning off the ventilation
causes them to pass out. This saves you from being killed.

Now  wait  till  the WNN feeder is active (check by entering interface mode
and  looking at the active ports). When it is, "WNN feeder, transmit record
buffer,  enter  communication  mode, WNNF"; you see your recording of Ryder
threatening  Perelman  being  broadcast,  thus  discrediting  Ryder and his
Plan!

Wait  till  Perelman  contacts you telling you Ryder has fled. The plan has
been cancelled and you're a hero!

You now have one final simulation to enter and enjoy..........


  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
