                           USA-DoX Presents:

Cadaver Walk-Thru Solve
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1. First room: take the pickaxe, the coin and the diary go north

2. 2nd room, pull the switch, go north

3. Take the sack with the stones (weapons) go west

4. Kill the monster (with the stones) take the jewelry (?) go south

5. Take the runestone, kill spider, go north

6. Go north! go north

7. Move the sacks and take the green stone, kill worm, then south

8. East, east, go south into the 'main chamber'

9. Take the rope and kill the worm, then go east, go east

10. Take the key, return to the room you started in

11. Go east, pull switch (opens south door in main chamber) open the
    chest for a clue

12. Return to main chamber, kill worm (or avoid it) go south

13. Throw pickaxe against the wall, go south

14. Check out the skeleton, take the book, go east

15. The knobs on the wall will unlock the door to the dragons room,
    the combination is 1432  (like the knob to the far left is one,
    and the one to the far right is 4) (you have to press the knobs
    in that order (1432) to unlock the door) dont open it yet though

16. Go east, go north go west into the well

17. Take the key under the bones, watch out for water monster go east

18. Go west, open chest, take food and coins, go west, go north

19. Take the coin on the table, use coin in keyhole on west wall
    go north into cell 1, go south, kill monster, go north into cell 2
    give prisoner food, (gives ya clues) go south

20. East into cell 3, go west,

21. Go east into cell 4, go west

22. Return to location described a few rows above (16) then go east

23. Take green stone, press button in wall to open the down to the
    .. uhh dont know but it opens some shit, read book for clues, go north

24. Drop rope in hole, go over hole to fall down,

25. Open rat (huh?) take key to east door, pickup the other key
    from the floor and open chest, take vase, or whatever it is, go east!

26. East, take the green stones there, (you should know have six green
    sontes) return to the first room where you fall down from above

27. Throw all green stones and you teleport

28. Go east into embalming room

29. Look thrugh skeleton and take key, dont touch the cadaver go north

30. Several magic drinks, cure poison blah blah etc,
    the key on the floor will fit into the key on the wall
    kill spiders, go south

31. Use learn potion and giant jump potion, go west

32. Offal store (south) is not very interesting

33. Return to the place with the four buttons (west west west west)

34. Go south, kill jumping brain, put skeleton key in key hole, south

35. Go west into mourning room, kill brain, take potions and jewelry
    go south

36. Kill the brain again (quite hard) take key, go west, dont take
    the jewelry its cheap (huh?)

37. Go north into royal armoury, take bronze sheild, sword, the
    shield with red tape on it (or whatever it is), and the bronze helmet
    go south, go west into ante room

38. Press button on wall will teleport into the kings secret room, take
    the crown, the coins and the jewelry, pull switch,

39. Back in ante room, go south, open chest with the key from the brain
    take join of meat, and coin

40. Return to mourning room (35) go east , east, south, youre know
    with bugs on the floor, kill or avoid em, blow out the light in
    the shells by jumping on the, this will unlock east door, go east

41. East into common crypt, take key on altar (crush the vase first)
    shoot the fore stones down from the altar   take cure potion,
    shoot  move away the two remainging urns from the stone hill,
    take dispel trap  and the box with experience (open it) go east

42. Take coins and sack of stones, return to common crypt (41)

43. Drop meat on altar (shrine) you get a super fast potion
    reutrn to common crypt, gp west

44. North into lesser crypt, take away sontes and you get runestone,
    go south, go north into priests crypt, look at the big urn and you
    find a mask (worm?) and a jewelry, go south, go south into  
    warriors crypt, drop funery coin on kazahs grave , take potion
    (fire shield, needed to kill dragon), go north

Go west, south, take key, north, north into lords crypt,north, use dispel
trap on chest, open chest take jewelry and urn go to the first room in the
chapel, (40) drop lord carolus urn on lord carolus altar, take massacre
spell, southwest into the crematorium, place alchemist ragnar urn on the
right stone hill take potion of blood, go east put flask of blood on high
altar, take key and spell (read magic) use the key in key hole on west
wall, go west, use dispel trap on chest, open chest, take runeston, read
language, north into library take map spell, return to inner sanctum
drop unknown spell and use read magic on it, go south, west into
purificatory. drop holy water in the shell, drink, and you teleport
somewhere, pull switch and you teleport to room beside purificatory, keep
doing that until the holy water is gone, go to the room with the four
buttons, push the code (1,4,3,2) go west, north into the dragon chamber,
drink fire shield potion, hold massacre spell and press fire button
to throw it (dunno if its fire button on the pc?_) dragon will explode,
pull the button in the wall, north, pull switch, and youre on level 2
(there are five levels) uhhh

Typed by rygar!


                         -=USA/Fairlight=-     
