               ---Hints for Conquests of Camelot by Sierra---

Q: How do I enter rooms in the castle? 

A: Move to the room you wish to enter and press the <Return> key.


Q: I'm in Arthur's room, what should I do? 

A: Wear the clothes that are in the southwest corner of your room.
Be sure you pick up the purse that is lying on the table. 

Q: What should I do at the Queen's Bower? 

A: Talk to the Queen. Ask her about Launcelot and about flowers.
Get the rose. 

Q: What do I do at the Treasury? Which coins do I get? 

A: Look around. Ask the man about bundles, Gawain & coins. Give the
man the purse and get Copper, Gold, and Silver coins. 

Q: What do I do at the Treasury? Which coins do I get? 

A: Look around. Ask the man about bundles, Gawain & coins. Give the
man the purse and get Copper, Gold, and Silver coins. 

Q: What should I do in Merlin's room? 

A: Talk to Merlin. Ask him about the map, Glastonbury Tor, Ot Moor,
Southampton. Look at the scroll and read it. Open his chest & get
the lodestone. 

Q: What should I do at the Chapel of the Two Gods? 

A: Kneel at each altar. Put a gold coin on the altar of Mithras and
a gold coin on the altar of Christ and receive your blessing. 

Q: I keep dying at the castle gate because I offended a god! 

A: Restore your game. Kneel at each altar in the Chapel in the Castle.
Put a gold coin on the altar of Mithras and a gold coin on the altar
of Christ and receive your blessing. 

Q: I need to know about Galahad, Gawain and Launcelot. Who should I
speak to? 

A: Ask the guards about Galahad. Ask the Queen about Launcelot and
Ask the man in the Treasury about Gawain. 

Q: What should I do at the outer Courtyard? 

A: Ask the guards about Galahad then mount your horse and use your
arrow keys to control him. Don't worry, your donkey will follow you.


Q: I need to re-enter the castle! 

A: You will need to Restore to re-enter the castle. Merlin told you
that you could not go back to Camelot until after you have completed
your quest. You need to get everything from the castle before you
leave. 

Q: What do I do with this Widdershins character? 

A: Give him a copper coin or he will play a trick on you. 

Q: I've met the poor Hunter. What should I do? 

A: Greet him and give him a copper coin. Ask him about the Mad Monk,
Gawain, The Black Knight, the spear, the Grail, and the boars. Buy
the spear with a gold coin. 

Q: My donkey keeps bolting! 

A: Don't worry if your donkey bolts when you leave the scene. You
will find him later on in the game. 

Q: I keep getting boared to death! 

A: You need to buy the spear from the hunter. Save your game just
before you enter the boar room. Use the spacebar to thrust the spear
into the boar. You must be very quick. If you have difficulty, select
an easier arcade setting. 

Q: I've come upon a raven and a dead body. What must I do? 

A: Talk to the raven. Answer "yes" when the raven gives you the challenge
of the Black Knight. Examine the poor soul leaning on the rock. Get
the sleeve. You will give the sleeve to somebody later on in the game.


Q: I have been challenged by the Black Knight. What should I do? 

A: Accept his challenge and Joust for Gawain's life. You need to
knock the Black Knight off his horse 3 times to win. Read page 20
of your Liber Ex Doctrina for further instructions on how to Joust
with the Black Knight. If you have difficulty, select an easier arcade
setting. 

Q: How can I free Gawain? 

A: Joust and win against the Black Knight. Cut Gawain's shackles
and ask him about the Grail. Put Gawain on your horse and he will
be taken to Camelot. 

Q: How can I get past the hag? 

A: She wants the sleeve you got from the poor dead soul near the
raven. 

Q: How can I get past the five talking stones? 

A: Read the runes on the pedestal. Go to the archway and you will
come to 5 stones. Get close to each stone and talk to it. Each stone
will ask you a riddle. Answer the riddle correctly and the stone will
start to glow. You must answer all 5 riddle stones correctly before
you can cross the barrier. 

Q: I can't answer any of the riddles! 

A: There are 26 different riddles. In no particular order, the answers
are: water, glove, iceberg, snail, candle, riddle, ship, heart, key,
net, mirror, gold, icicles, arrow, wine, fire, shadow, waterfall,
echo, pearl, time, air, blue, wheel, music, turtle. If you are stuck
trying to find the answer that makes sense of the riddle, just keep
trying different ones. There is no penalty for wrong guesses and you
can guess as many times as you wish. If you are completely baffled,
please write to our Customer Service Hint Department and we will send
you the list of riddles AND answers. 

Q: I have encountered a mad Monk! 

A: Ask the monk about the Grail. Follow him and Draw your sword.
There will then appear to be 3 of them fighting you! Only one is real,
the others are illusions. Defeat the real Monk and you will defeat
them all. Read page 21 in your Liber Ex Doctrina for further instructions
on how to fight. If you have difficulty, select an easier arcade setting.


Q: The Old Ones never let me leave the ruins of Glastonbury Tor! 

A: Go to the altar, 2 screens north of the covered well. Put 5 silver
coins on the altar and the Old Ones will release you from bondage.


Q: How do I open the well? 

A: Go to the altar, 2 screens north of the covered well. Put 5 silver
coins on the altar and the Old Ones will give you an iron key to unlock
the well. 

Q: What should I do at the well? 

A: If you have opened the well, reach into the water and you will
find a crystal heart. You may now leave the ruins. 

Q: I keep falling through the ice. 

A: If you have a rose, you can recite the message of the rose that
can be found on page 7 of your Liber Ex Doctrina. Stay within the
whirlwind of rose petals and you will be guided through the ice maze.
If you don't have the rose, you must use the heart that you found
at Glastonbury Tor. Gold means you are on safe ground. Purple means
you are walking on dangerous ground. 

Q: What should I give the Ice Maiden? 

A: You must give her the heart you found in the well on Glastonbury
Tor. 

Q: What do I do after I have given the heart to the Ice Maiden? 

A: You must help Launcelot by successfully completing the Ice Maiden's
Test. 

Q: How do I win the Ice Maiden's test? 

A: You can find the Language of Flowers on page 7 of your Liber Ex
Doctrina. To win the test, you must pick the flower that best answers
the riddle. Good Luck! ou will be guided through the ice maze. If
you don't have the rose, you must use the heart that you found at
Glastonbury Tor. Gold means you are on safe ground. Purple means you
are walking on dangerous ground. 

Q: What do I do at the Southampton Harbor? 

A: Ask the Harbormaster about Galahad. 

Q: Why does the Harbormaster tells me to come back later? 

A: You must first give the crystal heart to the Ice Maiden before
you can travel on the ship. 

Q: Where should I travel to? What is the price for passage? 

A: The Ice Maiden will tell you where to travel to. You will travel
to Gaza. Ask the man about prices. You better have gold coins or you
won't be able to proceed. 

Q: Who should I go with? Jabir or Hazm? 

A: Go with Hazm, he will take you to his master Al-Sirat who will
help you on your quest. 

Q: What should I ask Al-Sirat? 

A: Ask him about Galahad, the Grail, the Goddesses and the Guardians.
Be sure you write down the goddesses names and their symbols. 

Q: Should hire Jabir as a guide? 

A: No. 

Q: How can I cross the desert? 

A: After you come to the first screen of the desert go East 1 screen,
then South 1 screen, then East again. You should come to a pool with
a camel skeleton next to it. 

Q: OK. I've made it to the pool with the skeleton nearby. Now what?


A: Don't drink the water, it is poisoned. Draw your sword to get
Jabir out of the way. Travel East past the skeleton where Jabir stood.
Then travel North until you come to a building with a stone platform.


Q: I'm at the building in the desert, what should I do? 

A: Go down the stairs in the lower corner of the opening. You will
see a pool of water. Drink from the pool. Ask about pool and the aqueduct.


Q: I'm at Zion gate and it is blocked by 4 guards, how can I pass?


A: Talk to the guard. Give him 4 copper coins and he will let you
pass to the next gate. Walk to the West along the wall until you come
to Jaffa gate. 

Q: I made it through the Jaffa Gate but I've been robbed! 

A: Draw your sword and the thief will run off. You will not be able
to recover your money. 

Q: I've been robbed! What should I do? 

A: There is nothing you can do to prevent the thief from robbing
stealing your purse. You may chase him into the alley, but you will
never catch him. You must find another way to make money. 

Q: How can I make money? 

A: Sell your mule to Mohammed, the man taking care of your mule.


Q: What is a Dinar, Dirham, or Fal? 

A: Listen to what Mohammed tells you about the money of the land.
He will tell you about the denominations of the Dinar, Dirham, and
Fal. 

Q: What should I do in the Bazaar? 

A: You will enjoy the whole Bazaar more if you first wander around
and talk to as many of the merchants as you can (a few will not be
cooperative and one will not talk to you at all). Wait until last
to talk to the Seeress, who is the old woman selling apples. After
you talk to her, buy an apple. Give her a gold coin. Listen carefully
to her instructions after you eat the apple. 

Q: I've eaten the truth apple, now what? 

A: Go across the street, then West. Talk to Ibrahim, the textile
merchant. The textile merchant will reveal that he needs a veil he
promised his wife. Talk to Sarah, the felafel seller. Buy a felafel
and give it to the urchin. You may buy and eat a felafel yourself,
but be careful how you spend your money. 

Q: What should I do at the pottery seller's? 

A: When you find Farabi, the pottery seller (Fictilia), buy a mirror
from him. You need something to trade Mari for the veil. 

Q: Where can I find Mari? 

A: Go to Mohammed's weapons shop. Yell for Mari. Ask about the veil.
Throw the mirror to Mari. She will throw you the veil. Go across the
street and give the veil back to Ibrahim. 

Q: I've returned the veil, now what? 

A: Find the meat merchant, Fawaz (Tabulae Lanius). Talk to Fawaz.


Q: Fawaz is in a bad mood. What should I do? 

A: Find Hayyam, the fishmonger (Cetarius). Talk to Hayyam. Sweet
smelling herbs should solve this problem. 

Q: Where can I find herbs? 

A: Tariq, the lamp merchant (Lucernae) carries herbs. 

Q: What do I do at the lamp merchant's? 

A: Talk to the Tariq. He will reveal that he needs a religious relic.
Buy herbs and give the herbs to Hayyam. Go back to Fawaz and buy a
piece of lamb. Find Sarah, the felafel seller, and give her the lamb.
Go East on the same side of the street until you come to Ismail, the
relic merchant. 

Q: What should I buy from the relic merchant (Antiquarius Rex)? 

A: A relic. Fingerbones of St. Peter are acceptable relics. Give
the relic to the lamp merchant. The lamp merchant will give you a
broom. 

Q: OK. who wants my broom? 

A: Go to the Inn (Caupona) and knock on the door. Give Achmed the
broom. If you feel like it, spend the night there. When you leave
the Inn, go East. Talk to the leprous beggar. 

Q: What do I give the beggar? 

A: Give the beggar a bag of charcoal. You may buy charcoal at the
lamp merchant's (Lucernae). After you give the beggar the charcoal,
go back to Mohammed's weapons shop. You will see a crying girl. Notice
that her birds have escaped. Grain will help Ione retrieve her birds.


Q: Where can I find grain? 

A: Ali, the grain merchant (Horreum) will gladly sell you grain.
After you buy a bag of grain return to the crying girl (Ione) by Mohammed's
and scatter the grain on the ground next to the cage. 

Q: Where should I go after completing all the tasks in the bazaar?


A: Go back to the Seeress. Talk to her and she will give you the
Strength apple. Do NOT eat it yet! The Seeress will tell you to go
to Fatima's. 

Q: Which house is Fatima's? 

A: Fatima's door is marked by the star and crescent. 

Q: What should I do at Fatima's? 

A: Say no to all of her seductions. Ask her about the Grail, Test,
Galahad, Catacombs and the Hierophant. Give her the purse and enter
the door that opens to take the test. 

Q: How can I pass the Test of Symbols? 

A: To pass the test, you must have the symbols that Al-Sirat gave
you when you asked him about goddesses and the information found on
pages 9 and 10 of your Liber Ex Doctrina. When you have the symbols,
put the correct symbol in the correct square. Fatima will tell you
if you passed the test. 

Q: Where is the Hierophant? Where are the catacombs? 

A: The Hierophant is the old beggar who wanted charcoal. Talk to
him and ask him to open the catacombs. If you have passed the Test
of Symbols, he will give you the elixir. 

Q: What should I do in the catacombs? 

A: You should use your lodestone to find your way around. Look at
the murals. You should locate a child's mummy with a medallion and
a sarcophagus that opens. Search the catacombs until you find Galahad.


Q: What do I do when I find the child's mummy? 

A: Stand close to the right of the child's mummy (not too close).
Use your sword to get the medallion. 

Q: What do I do when I find the sarcophagus? 

A: Read the inscription on the lid of the sarcophagus, go up to the
open end of the sarcophagus. If you have the medallion you can get
the Golden apple, if not... well you can always restore. 

Q: I have found Galahad, what should I do? 

A: Give Galahad the elixir that the Hierophant gave you to save his
life. 

Q: I keep getting bitten by a rat when I try to rescue Galahad! 

A: There is nothing you can do to avoid being bitten by the rat when
you enter this chamber. From now on, your time is limited so do not
delay. Give Galahad the elixir and leave this room. Find the statue
of Aphrodite. 

Q: I've found the statue of Aphrodite. What should I do? 

A: Put the golden apple into the palm of her hand. You can get the
golden apple from the sarcophagus. 

Q: I can't answer Aphrodite's questions. 

A: You can find the answers to her questions on page 10 and 11 of
your Liber Ex Doctrina. 

Q: How do I get out of the catacombs? 

A: After you have saved Galahad, go to the statue of Aphrodite and
put a golden apple into her palm. Answer all of her questions correctly
and she will give you the directions on how to get out of the catacombs.
Listen carefully and make a note of the directions she gives you.
When the secret doors open, use the lodestone to determine which door
to take. The lodestone will always point North. Take the stairs out
of the catacombs after looking at the dead warrior's skull. 

Q: What should I do in the Temple? 

A: Walk all around the Temple so that you have seen each part of
it. When the Saracen appears and challenges you to battle, eat the
Strength apple. Eat it before you put on the helmet. This is also
a good place to Save your game. Put on the helmet the Saracen offers
you. You are then locked in battle to the death. For instructions
on how to fight the Saracen, Read page 21-23 of your Liber Ex Doctrina.
If you have difficulty defeating the Saracen, adjust the arcade mode
to an easier setting. 

Q: I keep dying of poison! 

A: If you die of poison you must restore to the catacombs and try
to accomplish your tasks after being bitten by the rat more quickly.


Q: What do I do once I defeat the Saracen? 

A: Use the dove that Aphrodite gave you. Follow the dove until Aphrodite
appears. Listen carefully to her words. Ask Merlin about the Spiral.
Facing the spiral on the inside of the Temple (not from the stairs),
move to the left. Count the places where each pillar once stood until
you come to the remains of the sixth pillar. Push the pillar. 

Q: Where is the Grail? 

A: Beneath a broken pillar in the Temple. 

Q: A thief has stolen the Grail! What should I do? 

A: There is nothing you can do to prevent the thief from stealing
the Grail. Chase the thief down the stairs and into the alley. Once
you have trapped him in the alley, you may either kill the thief of
show mercy by picking up the Grail. 





X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
