
             EcoQuest : The Search for Cetus

Introduction

You play the role of young Adam, who join Delphineus, the dolphin 
on  a  quest to find the great whale, King Cetus. First you must 
gain  the trust  of the citizens of Eluria before they help you. 
Next you  are to fullfil  the prophecy of the Oracle and to save 
Eluria.

Walkthru

You begin the quest at your home. Talk with your father. Look at 
the seagull.  Poor thing, it's covered with oil. Take the detegent 
and the  rag beside the  box. Pour some detegent on the rag and use 
it to clean  the seagull. Before  your father leave, he'll pass you 
a bottle of  fertilizer and a transmitter.  Look at the tank of 
water. It's full of  oil, pour some of the fetilizer inside  and 
let the bacteria eats up  the  oil. Look at the cage, the gerbil 
is thirsty.  Get the water  beside the  cage and give it to the 
gerbil. 

Take the letter on the chair. It contains your certificate and a 
membership  card. Take the letter on the chair and dump it in the 
recycle box. Look  at the  computer. Look at it a second time to 
play King Quest V. Get  the aluminium can  on the table and throw 
into the recycle box. Pick up  the trash bag. Look at  the  
blackboard.  Click on the individual part of  the drawing for more  
details. 

It's time to leave the room. Open the door with the combination 
number  9731.  You are now inside the swimming pool. Read the 
instructions on  the blackboard.  Talk to dolphin a few times. Get 
mackeral from the  bucket and feed the dolphin  a few times. Go 
inside the pool and ride  the dolphin. Get the frisbee and  throw 
it at the dolphin. Play with  the dolphin until it starts talking. 
Talk  to it. It's name is  Delphineus.  Throw the frisbee at the 
dolphin a few more  times. Look  at the propeller  and see how it 
was kept safe. Pull the lever  beside  the gate to open  the hatch. 
The dolphin will then swim away.

Days Passed...

The dolphin has return. Open the cabinet and get the swimming gear.  
Wear  the swimming gear and enter the sea.
Swim around until you 
reach   the  cruiser. Pick up all the rubbish with your trash bag. 
Pick up the  bottle.

(Note : I did not manage to stop the cruiser oil leak, maybe you 
can  figure it out yourself.)

Swim to the left until you see an island. Put on your oxygen tank 
and  dive into the water. Swim in the weed until you have found 
the  city of  Eluria.

Swim to Eluria. Pick up the iron cage and gather all the rubbish. 

Enter the temple. Get the bronze couch shell. Swim outside. Look at 
the  statue  with the trident. Give the couch shell to the servant, 
take the  trident. Go  to the temple again. Use the trident to poke 
the three eyes.  The Oracle appears, talk to it. Arrange the mosiac. 
The Oracle will then  ask you three riddles and tell you to click 
on  the picture to answer it.  For my case the 3 answers are : MAN, 
FISH  and LOVE. (I don't know whether  everytime the same riddles 
will be  asked or not) The oracle will tell you  to gain the trust 
of the  citizens of Eluria before it tell you the  prophecy. 

Swim outside. Enter the building with a few pillar. Talk to the 
golden  mask. Turn the pillar until all 9 parts are in the correct 
position.  Talk to the hermit crab, Superfluous. Exit. 

Swim to royal garden. Pick up all the trash. Use the fertilizer to 
remove  the  oil from the coral. The lobster, Demeter, will appear 
and give you a  healing  potion. Pick up the oily shell that have 
just fallen. Exit. 

Swim to fish department. Pick up all the trash, and get the cotton 
cloth.  Use  the cotton cloth to clean the oily shell. Exit. 

Go to find the hermit crab and give the shell to it. It will give 
you a  badge.

Swim to the fish department. The watchman, Gregarious, will appear 
when  you  try to enter any of the department. Show the badge to it 
to gain  entry. At  this time, a blowfish was caught in a plastic 
bag. Push it  into it's apartment. Remove the plastic bag from it. 
The blowfish,  Narcissus, will give you some  sea urchin. 

Enter the apartment of the anglefish, Epiderm
is. Talk to it. Use 
the  sea  urchins to eat up the algae from the plant. You get a 
sharp shell  as a reward.

Look for the apartment of the swordfish, Hippocrates. Cut the six 
pack  rings  using the shell. You receive a fish bone tweezer as a 
reward.  Pick up the 6  pack rings. Cut it with the shell and then 
trash it.

Look for Erraneous, the turtle apartment. Talk to it. Pull the 
string  out of  it mouth and use the fish bone tweezer to remove 
the balloon.  The turtle will give you 4 screws. Put the balloons 
into your trash  bag.

Look for the watchman apartment. Talk to it. Follow it to the 
surface.  Talk to fisherman. Use the 4 screws on the cage and then 
use it to fix  the  propeller.

Return to the fish apartment. Pick up the water pump and remove 
the  additional trash. Enter Olympic, the lionhead fish apartment. 
Remove  the  chlorine bottle  and use the water pump to clean up 
the chlorine.  Talk to  lionhead fish, get a  spine from it.

Now, you are ready to attend the meeting. After the meeting, get 
the  gold mask. Enter the temple. Show the gold mask to the Oracle 
and it  will  give you the prophecy. Exit Eluria.

Swim to the giant head. Pick up the mirror and remove all the trash. 
If  you  have clean up all the rubbish in the game, you receive a 
certain  award and  gain some additional points. 

Swim right until you reach the anemore, enter the cave there. Look 
the  a  key  on the skeleton. Pull the pike out (twice). Open the 
chest to  free  the crab.  Swim out the cave. Get the key. Too 
late,  the red fish  swallowed it. There is  no need to follow the 
red fish  immediately. So,  do the following task when you  reach 
appropriate  screen. 

At the octopus place, pull the cable. Then show the mirror to the 
octopus  and  then get the cable. 

At the submarine, use the trident to open the box to get the 
floating  bulb.  Pick up the fish lure. Open the storing cabinet 
behind the seat  and get the  hacksaw, trash the hammer head. 

Swim to the toxic cave, touch the red fish. It's wil
l swim back to 
the  anemore.

At the octopus, use the bottle on the octopus. Hide inside the 
plant  and watch  what happened. The octopus has opened the 
bottle for you.  Get the bottle. 

Swim back to the anemore, the red fish is being eaten by the 
anemore.  Use the  fish lure on it. Since the anemore can only 
can't digest the  key, it got vomit  out. Get the skeleton key.

Go to the giant head. Use the bottle on the ear to catch the 
flashlight  fish. 

Swim to the toxic cave. Release the flashlight fish to light up 
the  cave.  There is a brick wall inside the cave. Remove the 
brick one by  one until you  see something among the rocks. Look 
at the rock, there  is a metal box hidden  there. Use the oily 
rag to ease the lock, and  then open it with the skeleton  key. 
There is a suit inside, get it  and wear it. Enter the hole. 
Attach the  followings together: floating  bulb, transmitter and 
cable. Then tied them to  the barrels of toxic.

Wait for the divers to clear up the toxic...

Swim through the toxic cave to reach the boat. Use the trident to 
open  the cabin door. Watch out, flesh-eater is behind you. Swim 
all the way  until you are caught in the drift net. Use the shell 
to cut yourself  free. In the meantime, the dolphin is captured 
by  flesh-eater. 

Swim to the boat, use the trident to open the cabin door. Enter 
the  cabin door  and follow the cable until you found King Cetus. 
Talk to  it. Swim away until  you see the full view of it. Click 
the hand on  Cetus mouth to enter its mouth.  Use the hacksaw to 
cut the harpoon  shaft. Swim outside and pull the shaft out.  Use 
the healing potion  on the wound to save Cetus.

Follow Cetus to the boat. Swim to the manta's cave when Cetus is 
fighting  with it. Use the shell to cut the drift net to free the 
Delphineus.  Swim outside. Use the spine to attack flesh-eater. 
Note  that you must  attack at the right time. When you have 
strike  the  manta, Cetus will  defeat it.

From here onwards, just sit back and watch the ending.

Well Done !!!
You have completed the game.

                                                       VOLUME 
                                                       3/2/92

