Ecstatic Walkthrough Lite v1.0
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Typed and figgured out by MuggZ@IRC

Disclaimer: This is a VERY lite walkthrough that shows you the QUICKEST way
to get to the end. I don't explain everything near the end (Gotta keep the game
fun anyway..), so don't bitch and moan. I give away most of the secrets, so just
read and figgure it out. Have fun, and talk to me if you have any questions.

P.S. Don't try killing the wolfman, he's a bitch and a half. Wait till you have
a magic item.


	First off, walk forwards and to the right, if the Wolfman doesn't jump
you, go into the first door on your left. There should be some sort of key type
sign, and you should be able to see the church behind your character in the 
background. 

	Enter the building, there should be someone (An old Knight) fighting
a green Dragon. Wait till the Dragon defeats the Knight, and hope that it flies
out of the room. Pick up the Knight's bludgon, then hang around and talk to
him. You'll pick him up and take him to the building that is on your right when
you begin the game. There will be a man lying on the ground holding a key, if
all goes right, you shouldn't need to pick up the key because the Knight will
open the door for you.

	Once inside, ignore the Knight unless you give a shit about the plot,
then go to the shelves to the right of the door (To the right, as if you are
just entering the room), and pick up the vegitable laying on it. It's part
of a magic potion.

	Next, go outside, you should be at the 'beginning' point basically.
Now, go to your right again down the alley, go to the end of the alley until
you get to the door that you'll be facing. Open it, go inside. There should be
a demon sitting at the foot of the stairs drinking, kill him, go up the stairs,
you'll be in a bedroom. Go up the stairs to your right, you'll automatically
put the vegitable into the device.

	Now, go outside to the front of the door, go straight forwards, you'll
be inside the church. Grab the little stick figure thing that is laying to the
right of the altar. Go back to the room where you put the vegitable, put it
in the device. 

	Go back to the church, grab the bible, now, head back to the doorway
that leads to the demon you killed that was drinking.. Go left down the alley,
keep on going that direction until you find an opening that will lead to 
vegitation and grass. 

	There are two options at this point, to the right, and to the left.
Go to the left, it will lead down a path, and in the distance you will see
a beggar walking in front of a small fortress. (An Abbey). At this point
the Wolfman might try to attack you from behind, if he does, just FUCKING
RUN, towards the abbey. He is IMPOSSIBLE to kill with any weapon short of a
magical one. Trust me, I've fought him literally for 30 minutes with the best
sword available, and it DOES NOT work. Once you get to the abbey, you should
read the book automatically and get let in. If the Wolfman is following you,
go inside the abbey, look around a little bit, do NOT go down the hole in the
library, just walk around the different rooms. 

	If you do this for about 5 minutes, the wolfman should go away. At
this point walk outside of the Abbey, drop the Bible in front of the abbey,
then walk down the path towards the town. There will be a flower, pick it up.
It's the last part of the magic potion. Go back to the room where you put
the other two ingredients, but BEFORE you go into the room (When you are in
the bedroom..), DROP the flower, and pick up the teddy bear. Go outside again,
head towards the Church, turn to the right as soon as you get past the building
on your right.. Walk straight forwards, then once you are inside the Barn,
you should automatically throw the teddy. At this point, the girl will start
walking and ask you to follow. Do so, she'll try to go into a hole you're
too big to go into under the Church. But she will open up the Dungeon for you.
Go down the dungeon, there will be like.. 6 skeletons. Easy to kill, then go
down even further, until you get to the bottom. You'll freak out and run back
to the top. At this point, go BACK to the bedroom where you dropped the flower.
Pick the flower up, and go and put it in the device, and you've got the
potion. 

	At this point, you'll drink the potion and turn into a beaver or some
shit. Go back to the place where the girl tried to take you, but you were too
big. Now.. you're just the right size. Cruise down the little hallway until
you get to some stairs, at this point you should turn back into a human. Kill
the gnomes if you want, then go up the stairs. You'll open a trap door an 
there will be an old man waving a sword. Hang around for a bit and he'll drop
it and you can get it. Drop the bludgon, and the sword. Pick up the sword, and
you'll automatically wield it. Now pick up the bludgon. You'll need it.

	Now, go outside, and go back to where the path leads in two directions,
(One being the Abbey, and the other being..?).. You'll have to fight and kill
two Minotaurs, but with the sword you now have, it should be easy once you get
the rythm down.

	Anyway, you'll towards a castle, take the steps _DOWN_ towards the
fountian. Walk past the fountian and keep going that direction. At this point
you'll find a lake, stand on the rock, you'll automatically throw the sword 
into it, and get Knighted by the Lady of the lake. NOW, turn around, go back
towards the castle, do not take the front enterance, take the SIDE enterance
on the right. You'll get let in, and be told to go to the tower. Go to the
tower, don't bother going up. Go straight down. At the bottom there will be
a statue that will swing at you, if you time it right you can duck and walk
forwards and he won't hit you. Keep going forwards, there will be 2 phantom
warriors that will try to attack you, just smack them around, they die quick.
Then, go forward more until you get to the room that has downwards staircases,
take the RIGHT side of the room (The one with the fire breathing stone dragon),
walk around the edge of the room, take the stairs down.. (If you go the other
side, a spike will come up and kill you).. Once you're in the centre of the
first two sets of stair, get to the farthest right (Perspective right), and
hop down to the next set of stairs that is on the perspective right. If you
do this, you won't get nailed by the second spike. 

	Now, go down those stairs, avoid the spikes in the floor, go into the
center room. There will be two coffins standing on end.. Walk past the first
one, a skeleton should pop out, kill it. Walk past the second one, it'll open
up showing a Skeleton wearing armor. Walk past it again and towards it until
it closes on you, and opens up again.. poof, you got armor. Now, go to the
outside of the inner room (Where the floor has spikes that come up and tag
you..), and pick an enterance that has gargoles around it. There are three,
I won't tell you which one or the directions.. Gotta make it somewhat fun. ;)

	But, one of them will have two naked guys fanning.. You can lie down
on the bed they're fanning on. It'll have two other exits other than the one
you came in. One of them will be a stairwell down, (The perspective will show
you being at the top with the 'Camera' being at the very bottom. do NOT go
down here JUST yet..). The other exit in this room (The one with the guys
fanning) is a death trap. So avoid it.

	Another one is a prison cell with two guards. Avoid this one.

	The last room (The last of the three that you can get to from the room
with the spikes that come out of the floor) will have a ghostly beaver, it'll
tell you some things.. grab the BOOK, and go UP and OUT. Go BACK to the Abbey,
grab the Holy Relic (That the two monks are worshipping.) At this point you 
might have to kill them all. Now, you'll have to drop your bludgon to get the
book. It's cool. Just do it. Now go to the stone circle (If you walked around
you'll know where it is, I've coddled you enough!).. And get in the center,
bam shablam, you now have a fireball shooting relic. Drop the magic book (You
don't need it..), Now go back down the tower till you get to the bottom, (The
room where the naked guys fan..), find the stairwell that the perspective will
show you being at the top of, walk down.. You will fight against 'yourself',
shoot a fireball at yourself, you'll die. (The alternate you will..) Then talk
to the king for a few minutes, then run back to where you picked up the magic
Book. The demon's head should now be gone and the door will be open. The rest
explains itself.

-muggs@irc
 



	


