HERBAL HONEY

Required elementes: Honey and Hay

Make a decoction with 2 handfuls of hay.  Boyle for 20
minutes in water and pour liquid into bowl.  Stir in jar of
honey until dissolved and allow to cool before transferring to
suitable container.

Allow 30 minutes for completion of this delicious elixir.
Imbibe to become one with the vitae naturae and gain knowl-
edge of the true names of all plants.

ALPHABET SOUP

Required elementes: Dandelyons, Elderberries & Rose petals

Crush a handful of Elderberries and save the extract.  Steep
the petals frpm 1 rose in water for 1 hour.  Cut the stem from
a dandelyonand allow the white sape tp drip into the
elderberrie extract.  Remove rose petals from liquid & discard.
Add rose water to elderberrie and dandelyon, heate to 62
degrees and stir in dandelyon flowers.  Turn heate off, allow
to stand for 20 minutes and strain into container.

Allow 90 minutes to prepare this potion.  Essential before
understanding of Runes can be gained.

BRAIN ACHE

Required elementes: Poppys, mushrooms and one maggot

Choppe 1 large maggot into small pieces.  Boyle 2 handfuls of
fresh mushrooms until reduced to a mushe and mix in the
seeds from 5 poppys then add the maggot pieces to the result-
ing dough.  Place in a baking tray and cook in the oven for 15
minutes or until golden browne.

Allow 30 minutes for preparation.  Consuming this cake
allows you to cast Brain Ache spelles to the confusion of your
foes.

MIND LOCKE

Required elementes: Poppys, one maggot and Bloode Root

Choppe 1 large maggot into small pieces and sautee until
brown.  Add sliced bloode root and continue on heate until
soft.  Grinde up seeds from 5 poppys ans sprinkle on surface
and allow to cool.  Grinde mixture into fine paste, make into
small balles and allow to harden.

Eating these balles allows you to cast Mind Locke spelles to
freeze your enemies.  This takes one hour to prepare.

SPAGETTY CONFUSION

Require elementes: Belladonna, Parsley, White Wine &
Witch Hazel

Dry one cup of witch hazel leaves until dry and crisp then
crush to produce a powder.  Add a belladonna flower and a
pinch of parsley to the powder, mixing them together well.
Heate a bottle of white wine to boyling and stirr in the
powdered mixture while continuing to boyle until the mixture
turns into spagetty-like strings which should be formed into
patties and baked for five minutes in a hot oven.

This should take about an hour.  When eaten, the user gains
the Tangled Mind spelle.

SIZZLING EGGES

Required elementes: Bird's egge, Hellebore, Firethorn &
Water Lily

Boyle a large lily leaf in water for 15 minutes, add a cupfull
of firethorn petals and a hellebore flower.  Add the white of a
smalle egge and stirr thoroly for 10 minutes before allowing to
cool.  Drain remaining liquid into suitable container.

This takes about one hour to make a will give user a real 
knockout spelle.

CLOTTED SURPRISE

Required elementes: Spyder's web, Hawthorn & Mosse

Peel a saucepan full of hawthorn berries.  Take great care to
remove all trace of outside skins.  Crushe the berries to pro-
duce a fine puree which should be put to one side.  Wash three
handfuls of common mosse, to remove any dirte and then boyle
in water to cleanse.  The mosse will break down into a green
and slimy substance to which the pureed hawthorn should be
added.  Mix thoroly into a homogenus paste.  This paste
should be liberally spread over a bandage made from spyder's
web.  The bandage thus encrusted should be applied to any cut
area which requires healing.

This poultice takes twenty five minutes to prepare and will
restore your strength and ability.  To use apply to injured
area.  For many minor injuries.

ICED MAGICK

Required elementes: Hawthorn, Thistle and Bloode Lily

Remove all of the petals from a bloode lily flower and discarde
them.  Remove the seed pod and place over a low heate to
encourage it to open up.  When it does so, remove all of the
seeds.  Boyle two handfuls of hawthorn berries for twenty
minutes and drain off the liquid to use.  Discard the boyled
hawthorn pulpe.  Remove the thistle down from one thistle
and add to the liquid from the hawthorns together with the
bloode lily seeds.  Take resulting mixture and place it in
freezer for one hour.  Pour off liquid into suitable container.
To be drunk as required with this recipe providing sufficient 
for two portions.

Will take one and three quarters hours to prepare.  The decoc-
tion should be used for more serious injuries than the previous
poultice.

WOODEN HEART in ALGAE SAUCE

Required elementes: Dogwood, Algae, Bleeding heart and
Honey.

Bake 6 handfuls of dogwood barke for two hours in a hot
oven.  Whilst the bark is baking, prepare the sauce as follows:
Disolve a jar of honey in warm water, add a pint of Pond
algae and one chopped bleeding heart flower.  Simmer for one
hour and pour over the dogwood when baked.  It sets into a
hard jelly and provides enough for three helpings.

Taking two hours to make, each helping is a powerful restor-
ative and healing agent.

PAINFREE

Required elementes: White Wine, Black lotus & Laudnum

Take the flower of a black lotus and remove its petal.  Care-
fully extract the pollen from the remainder of the flower and
mix the pollen into the tincture of laudnum.  Warm a glass of
white wine and mix in the combined black lotus pollen and
laudnum.  This should be stored in a suitable container until
needed.

It takes about half an hour to prepare and will take all pain
away for three hours.

FIRE SPONGE

Required elementes: Plantain, Flame flower & Moss

Add water to 2 handfuls of moss and knead to form a sticky, 
dough like paste.  Remove seed heads from 2 handfuls of
Plantain, add to mixture and set aside for 15 minutes.  The
seeds act as a speedy yeast.  Grate a whole flame flower plant
including leaves, flower & root and add to the moss dough,
after the plantain seeds have done their work.  Ensure an
even dispersal.  Place in baking tray and cook in a warm oven
for 15 minutes.  When cool, slice and serve.

This receipt make sufficient for six slices.  It takes 35 min-
utes to prepare and eating a slice allows the casting of a 10
second Fire Wall.

ICE SPONGE

Required elementes: Plantain, Hawthorn & Moss

Follow instructions for making Fire Sponge but substitute 2
handfuls of grated hawthorn berries for flame flowers.  It
takes the same tyme to prepare but allows the casting of a 20
second Ice Wall.

MAIDENS TURNOVER

Required elementes: Maidenhair, Fern, 3 Spyder's webs &
Honey

Take two handfuls of leaves from the Maiden's Tree and
choppe them finely.  Boyle the finely chopped leaves until
totally dissolved into the water to leave a dirty brown liquid.
Blend into this liquid one jar of honey which acts as both a
sweetener and thickening agent.  Shred a handful of fern
sprigs and stir into the mixture which then forms a thick
dough-like paste.  Shape this paste into small packets and
wrap each one in a spyder web.  There is enough of the mix-
ture to make three packets.

The receipt takes twenty minutes to prepare.  Eating a packet
causes an increase in skin toughness as tho wearing armor.  It
has no effect on magick and provides no protection against
spelles.

MANTICORE FLIP

Required elementes: Maidenhair, Fern, 3 pieces of Manticore
hide & Honey.

Prepare as Maiden's Turnover but wrap each packet in a piece
of Manticore hide.  Causes greater increase in skin toughness.

KNIGHTYME PLEASURE

Required elementes: Bird Feather, Deadly Nightshade and
beetles

Crush two handfuls of Knightshade berries to extract their 
juice.  Mix juice with the bloode sucked from five live beetles.
Stir the mixture widdershins with the tail feather of a bird
and recite my name backwards.  Store drink in a bottle untill
required.

As the ingredients for this receipt are difficult to obtain at the
same tyme, it is unlikely that more than one portion of this
poyion can be prepared in any one year.  Should you be fortu-
nate enough to obtain the necessary for more than one portion
then a second batch should be stored as though it were fine
wine.

It only takes fifteen minutes to prepare but is most powerful
in its effects.  When consmed it offers total protection to all
non-contact magick weapons and substantial protection from 
any other weapone for a considerable tyme.  It should not be
used lightly but saved until needed.

LUCKY SURPRISE

Required elementes: Nettles & one Four Leaf Clover

Boyle a saucepan full of fresh nettles in water for twenty 
minutes.  Add a sprig of four leaf clover and continue to boyle
for a further five minutes.  Strain off the liquid, bottle it and 
allow to cool whereupon it may be consumed.  This potion 
should be used judiciously as excessive consumption will cause
drowsiness and lethargy.

It takes thirty minutes to prepare.  Use of this portion will
make you react quicker unless taken to excess when it will
tend to cause the opposite effect.

PROPITIOUS SURPRISE

Required elementes: Aconite, Nettles & one Four Leaf Clover

This mixture should be prepared as Lucky Surprise but after
straining off the liquid, add three drops of aconite extract to
the decoction and stir for five minutes before bottling.  It
takes forty minutes to prepare.  This potion has the advantage
of not causing drowsiness but otherwise acts as a Lucky Sur-
prise.  The addition of Aconite must be at the tyme of prepara-
tion.  Later addition makes a deadly poison.

MONSTERA PIE

Required elementes: Monstera, Parsley & Ivy

Line a medium sized baking dish with Ivy leaves.  Clean and
separate a 2 cm. basketful of Monstera petals and slice into 
thumb joint sized strips.  Place the strips into a baking dish,
add the parsley and cover the contents with another layer of
Ivy leaves.  Place the baking dish in a hot oven and cook for
twenty minutes.  This receipt should provide enough for five
portions and takes thirty minutes to prepare.

Eating a slice of this pie will make the eater stronger but 
slightly slow down the eater's reactions.  This slowing is
cummulative for each slice eaten before a previously consumed
slice is fully digested.  Only the foolhardy shude try eating the
whole pie at one sitting because of this side effect.  Used with
due care, consuming a slice of pie will give the eater a useful
boost in strength when it is needed.

GLOWING PRIDE

Required elementes: Thistle, Dandelyon & Flame flower

Remove the petals from one Flamed flower and press them to
remove the oil of which they contain.  Take one Dandelyon and
split its stem.  Allow the milky liquid contained therein to
drip into the previously extracted oil and mix thoroughly.
Pull the down from one Thistle and drop into the oil mixture
so that the down soaks up the mixture.  Roll the down into a
ball.  Thro' practice, tis possible to increase the oil yield from
each flower.

This should take fifteen minutes.  Store the soaked down in
darkness.  As soon as a prepared ball of down is removed from
complete darkness, it will begin to glow.  The length of tyme
that each ball will glow for, is directly proportional to the
user's experience.  If the user is twice as experienced the
second tyme that this magic is used then the light will last for
twice as long.  Useful in those unexpected dark places when
there is no normal light available.

MUSHROOM TENDERNESS

Required elementes: Hellebore, Elderberry & Mushroom

Slice up one bucket of mushrooms and then boyle them untill
reduced to a thick mush.  Crush two handfuls of elderberries
to extract their juice and add the juice to the boyled mush-
rooms.  Choppe up one Hellebore leaf and add to the mixture.
Pour into an appropriate container and drink when required.

Preparation takes 25 minutes and produces enough mixture
for four doses.  Drinking this potion will infuse the user with
superhuman strength for a short period of time.

THORNY SPLINTER

Required elementes: Firethorn & Nettles

Boyle four handfuls of nettles for ten minutes and strain off
the liquid, discarding the nettles.  Add thorns from the 
Firethorn bush and allow to brew for one hour.  Bottle &
drink as soon as cool.  Takes one and a half hours to prepare.

Drinking this potion will arm the drinkers with Fire Dagger
spelles.

FINGERLIGHT

Required elementes: Earwigges, Deadly Knightshade and
Belladonna

Extract the juice from a saucepan full of Nightshade berries,
add five earwigges and one chopped belladonna leaf to the 
juice and allow to stand for twenty minutes.  Drain the liquid
into a bottle and drink immediately.

Preparation takes twenty five minutes.  When drunk this
potion imbues the user with the ability to cast Fingerlight
spelles (lightning boltes).

PALMLIGHT

Required elementes: Centipedes, Mistletoe, Belladonna &
Absinthe

Extract the juice from a saucepan full of Mistletoe berries,
add five centipedes, one chopped belladonna leaf & two
spoonfulls of Absinthe to the juice and allow to stand for
twenty minutes.  Drain the liquid into a bottle and drink
immediately.

Preparation takes forty five minutes.  When drunk this potion
imbues the user with the ability to cast Palmlight spelles
(lightning ball).

CAT & DOG BROTH

Required elementes: Spyder, Horse hair, Lily flower and
Witch Hazel

Take a large lily and finely choppe it.  Add the chopped lily to
a basketful of Witch hazel leaves and simmer over a gentle
heate for one hour.  Drain off the resultant liquid into a
saucepan and discard the remains of the flower & leaves.
Remove the skins from ten common spyders and throw them
away.  Crush the spyders to release their bloode and add to the
liquid in the saucepan.  Stir the mixture thoroughly and then
add a tuft of Horse hair.  Raise the liquid to boyling point and
simmer for twenty minutes or until it thickens.  Pour into a
suitable container.  It may be eaten either hot or cold.

This recipe takes an hour and forty minutes to prepare.  When
eaten, this powerful mixture has two effects.  The minor result
of its use, is a boost to strength and general health but the
major effect provides the eater with a large number of
Tunderflash Spelles which can inflict serious damage on the
enemy.

DEMONS BREW

Required elementes: Vampire dust, Dragon's bloode & Deadly
Nightshade

Extract the juice from a saucepan full of Deadly Knightshade
berries and discard the pulp.  Add this juice to one pint of
Dragon's bloode.  Put the Vampire dust in this liquid and
allow it to stand for five minutes.  Drain the mixture through
a muslin cloth to remove all of the sediment and bottle the
resultant liquid.  It is absolutely essential to discard the
sediment on consecrated ground, failing to do so will cause
you moste serious regrets.

This decoction takes twenty five minutes to prepare and
equips anyone who drinks it with a terrible weapon.  For this
reason and because of the ingredients, this is a rare decoction
that you are likely to make only once in a lifetime.  Careless-
ness in making it can also ensure that you only get to make it
once in a lifetime.

Drinking the decoction will provide the drinker with a large
number of Fearful Spelles that do an amazing amount of
damage to any normal creature.

POSTSCRIPTUM

Brain Ache:

When this spelle is cast upon an opponent, it reduces dexterity
by a random amount for the duration of the fight.  It may be
used only once in any single confrontation.

Fearful:

This awesome spelle does terrible damage to any standard
opponent upon whom it is cast.

Fingerlight:

This more potent fight spelle casts a fork of lightning at an
opponent causing damage when it hits.

Fire Dagger:

This spelle appears and acts like a flaming, thrown dagger but
doing three times the damage of a dagger unless the target is
immune to fire.  Used against a mummy, there is a chance of it
catching fire.

Fire Wall:

Lasting for 10 seconds each time it is used, this spelle stops an
opponent attacking and allows the caster to use a ranged
weapone or run away.  It also destroys any ice-based weapon
as well as severely damaging any wooden weapones but these
effects also apply to the caster's weapons.

Ice Wall:

The ice version of Fire Wall, it lasts twice as long but is
almost instantly destroyed by fire-based weapones and only
allows the caster to use ice spelles for its duration.

Identify Plant:

This magickal ability is essential to allow identification of the
many plant ingredients used in the magickal arts.  It is gained
by consuming Herbal Honey.

Knightyme Pleasure:

This is the greatest defensive spelle in that it eliminates all
effects from magickal ranged weapones and halves the effect
of any other weapone.

Lucky Surprise:

This potion increases the imbiber's dexterity by one tenth for
each swig but if more than one swig is taken before an earlier
one wears off this is partially negated by becoming drowsy.

Maiden's Turnover:

This causes a magickal hardening of the eater's skin which
effectively halves sword damage for a tyme.

Manticore Flip:

Similar to Maiden's Turnover but reduces sword damage to
one tenth for a much longer tyme.

Mind Locke:

This spelle is similar to Tangled Mind but of even greater
intensity.

Palmlight:

A more powerful version of Fingerlight that casts ball light-
ning at an opponent for even greater damage.

Propitious Surprise:

Similar effect to Lucky Surprise but without the drowsiness 
disadvantage for multiple swigs.

Runic Reading:

This is the ability to read and understand runic writing which
is necessary to understanding and can be obtained by drinking
Alphabet Soup.

Sizzling Egges:

This gives an offensive spelle equivalent to hitting an oppo-
nent somewhat harder than the deadliest concussive weapon.

Tangled Mind:

Similar to Brain Ache but reduces dexterity by a greater
amount.

Thunderflash:

When cast at an opponent this spelle acts as a percussion
weapon which inflicts extensive damage.




X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
