

FUTURE WARS WALKTHRU
by Marci Rogers

General:  This game is so linear and so playable that everyone (and
his dog)  has not only finished it, but has written a walkthru (the
dog is still working on one). Therefore, I'll keep this brief to avoid
duplicating thousands--now that's a grim thought. There are really
only two things to bear in mind.  Timing is tricky in many sequences,
and the storyline is lethal.  In fact, if you're not careful, you will
spend more time dead than alive, so SAVE EARLY, SAVE OFTEN!!  Now, on
with the show:

Follow the instructions in the back of your manual for the opening
sequence.  You don't have a manual?  Then get your clues somewhere
else, Blackbeard!  After your boss is all wet, enter the office and
close (operate) the door behind you.  Use the key on the cupboards
until you find the one it fits, then read the number on the
typewriter.  Open the desk drawer and take the sheaf of paper, then
examine the wall map.  Use the red flag you found in the hole, and a
secret passage will open.  SAVE, then go down it.  The roof will fall
in (literally), so examine the control panel on the right and operate
More[n,Y,=]           each number separately using the combination you got froe
typewriter.  Whew, that drywall's close!  However, you are still alive
and can enter the lab, where you need to put the sheaf of paper in the
slot on the machine.  Now operate first the green and then the red
button.  Ignore the alarm, but don't dawdle, or you're dead!  Grab the
documents as soon as they print and head for the pillar of light.
It's actually a teleporter, and you are sent back to....

Medieval Times:  Right here, right now, SAVE, before you take even one
step.  You must stay on the green/brown squares only.  Walk carefully
west until you're within one square of the mosquitoes.  Easy, don't
rush.  Zap them with the insecticide and the rest of the going west is
easier.  Search the ground carefully just before you leave the screen.
Examine the gleam and take the pendant.  Keep walking into the lake
area.  Don't waste your time with the mound (it's a red herring), and
don't walk further west or you'll be mugged to death by monks; no, not
hugged, mugged.   Instead, go to the tree nearest the water and
examine the branch and the trunk base.  Take the rope and tie it to
the branch, then climb up and nap until a local villager decides to go
skinny dipping.  Climb down and take his pants and tunic.  Use them on
yourself.  There, you look positively serfish, so much so that the
monks will have vanished.  Now, that's what I call intuitive!

You can show the pendant to the guard, but he'll only tell you to come
More[n,Y,=]           back later.  Better not to bother, and simply walk up leo the
screen with the mini-forest.  Shake (operate) the tree and a coin will
fall from the robe.  You can't get the robe itself yet, so take the
coin and go back to the inn.  Give the coin to the innkeeper and
listen to the conversations after he brings your food.  As  soon as
you hear that the Lord's daughter is missing, go to the castle and
show the pendant to the guard.  You'll be taken to the Lord for an
automatic sequence, during which you will, of course, agree to rescue
the kidnapped lady.

When you leave the castle, you'll find that the guard has conveniently
dozed off (he doesn't work for your old boss) and you can grab his
spear.  Use it to get the monk's robe, which you can then use on
yourself.  Don't you just love costume parties.  Now go south from
the castle screen to the monastery.

Goodness, what big teeth that wolf has!  Fortunately, despite your
hood, you're not little Red, and a careful examination of the beast
will reveal his electric personality.  The first thought that will pop
into your head here is the correct one, but doing it is the problem.
Return to the lake and SAVE!  Now fill the plastic bag with water,
move as fast as you can back to the wolf, and use the FULL bag on the
it.  This requires careful timing and will probably take several
tries.  Heavens, it's just shocking how you treat animals!  After the
More[n,Y,=]           wolf's gone, cross to the monastery and SAVE.

Inside you find the monks of the renowned Order of the Clockwise
Motion.  Better worship as they do, or you'll be their first
sacrifice.  Start by circling left to open the door on the left room.
Enter and approach the monk near the cup, who will send you to Father
Superior.  Exit and CIRCLE right to the far right door, where you meet
"Father Superior".  Rasputin had nothing on this fake, but go when he
sends you to get him some wine.  The monk in the first room is now
gone, so pick up the cup.   Circle around to the door in the back
wall, which is the wine cellar.  Open it, and go down the stairs where
you should examine the barrels until you find a full one.  Operate it
to fill the cup and return to "Father".  He'll chew you out for
getting the wrong thing, but he'll drink it anyway and pass out.
Search him, get the remote control, and use it on the chest below the
library shelves.  Take the magnetic card that's inside, exit, and
circle back to the wine cellar.  Climb the ladder, examine the
barrels, and then use the remote control on the empty one.  Voila!
Another secret passage.  Enter it.

You're in another lab, and look at that beautiful girl!
Unfortunately, her make-up is absolutely plastic.   Examine her area
carefully and take the gas capsule on the floor, then examine the
console.  Use the magnetic card, and she'll be free not only to look
More[n,Y,=]           at you, but to take you out of there and into another autic
sequence.  Don't relax too much.  Humanity is faced with a grim future
and you're about to be part of it.  Next stop....

4135 A.D.:  You've just dropped into a future wasteland, and it looks
as if Lo'Ann stood you up.  You're on your own in the rubble, so
examine it closely, especially in the lower right until you find the
empty blowtorch.  Pick that up and proceed right to where you'll find
more rubble, hiding a box of fuses and a manhole in the center.  Open
the manhole and go down.  Welcome to the sewers, where you will not
find the ghost of Jean Valjean, or even the Phantom of the Opera, but
you will encounter a gas tap about three screens down.  Use the
blowtorch with it and keep walking.  This isn't a maze; just follow
the paths and you'll do fine.  Quite soon you run into a mutant
octopus threatening a mother and child.  SAVE before you get close and
then make it your latest flame.  Mom will be so grateful that she'll
open up an exit, which beats the heck out of candy and flowers at this
point.  Take it.

Naturally, your exit will seal up the minute you use it and leave you
before a sealed door.  Never fear; your spear is here.  Use it on the
camera lens to enter the subway station.  Examine the newspaper
machine and the coin collector.  Use the coin you find there in the
coin slot.  Gee, it works just like a real vending machine, so you
More[n,Y,=]           will have to repeat the process.  Don't worry if you misur train
while all this is going on.  There are at least two, and they all go
to the same place.  Take the newspaper and board the car to the air
terminal.  This is a depressing place for someone as broke as you are.
The attendant wants money and the security guard isn't about to move.

Might as well go down to the loo, where the commodes are equally
greedy and the fuses are exposed.  Shame on them, but at least you get
the chance to examine them and replace the ones that are burned out.

When you return to the lobby, you find that the guard has found
something to distract him.  The attendant is still demanding, but you
can get past her if you notice how vain she is.  In fact, she powders
her nose every other minute.  Just stand close to the guard and wait
until she looks in the mirror.  Now use the escalator and board the
plane for a comfortable ride--that is, if you don't mind kidnappings.

The Crughons will take over your plane only a few minutes after you
leave.  This is automatic, so just wait until you wake up in the cell.
Luckily, the Crughons are related to the aliens in Zak McKracken
through generations of inbreeding, and they left you with everything
in your inventory.  Use the key on the grate, then SAVE.  Toss the gas
capsule into the opening and QUICKLY cover it with the newspaper.
Wait until your cell door opens, and then go out.  Your captors are
More[n,Y,=]           all dead, and, better yet, you're being rescued by humanMaybe not
so good, since they arrest you as a spy, and order your execution,
without even giving you a chance to save.

In true adventure style, you're gasping your last when Lo'Ann shows up
with the reprieve.  Looks like she didn't stand you up after all, and
you get to recover during another automatic sequence which details the
Crughons' dastardly plan.  Lo'Ann gets a bit carried away with all
this and resolves to stop them single-handedly.  You're not about to
let her do it, since you're the hero, and, besides, she's the first
decent date you've had in months.  So you volunteer to accompany her,
and it's off to....

Dinosaur Days:  This time the transfer goes well, at least as well as
you could expect, and you only have to navigate an easy outcropping to
reach Lo'Ann.  Take the weapon she gives you, and then SAVE THE GAME.
You are about to go left into one of the obligatory arcade sequences
which plague recent games.  We are all suffering from the current
belief among programmers and distributors that the only people playing
computer adventures are teenage boys.  Obviously, they never read
polls or surveys, and the majority of adventurers are left grinding
their teeth while yet another Amiga program attempts to present a
great computer as a Nintendo.  This trend is frustrating, infuriating,
and even insulting, but we're stuck--so SAVE.  The field below you
More[n,Y,=]           will be covered with Crughons who will start blasting moarily, and
they will regenerate infinitely until you blast their commander off
his floating platform.  After that, you will simply have to clear out
the current bunch.  I use simply as a comparative term, since most
folks who have worked their way through this part are now muttering to
themselves about murders in Paris.  (Individually, I didn't have that
much trouble, but I was a real joystick jockey as a teen, and I was
using a Golden Image mouse.  This little device is basically a graphic
artist's tool, and thus is very fast and VERY accurate.  I'm not
saying that it made the difference--no "sponsor's plugs", but I was
through in three tries.  The next lowest number I've heard is twenty-
two, with more than thirty being average!)  So prepare; you have been
warned.

After this ordeal is finally over, the last Crughon will, with his
last breath, shoot Lo'Ann.  You can't prevent this, although you can
add a parting shot of revenge if you desire.  Naturally, you need to
help Lo'Ann immediately, so examine her.  She's still alive, so search
her again, and again.  Come on, you know you've wanted to do this.
The first search will equip you with an invisibility pill, and the
second will turn up Lo'Ann's pendant, which you can use to send her
back to the future (kind of a catchy title) for proper treatment.  You
need to go down to the Crughon ship.

More[n,Y,=]           When you do, you'll find a dead Crughon by the ramp.  Se him,
which won't be as much fun, but will give you a magnetic card.  Now
enter the ship and go to the cockpit.  Use your card in the card
reader and then open the cryocase in front.  Take the garment and put
it over the video camera.  Move yourself to the case, SAVE in
preparation for the next stage, then lie down.  An automatic sequence
will take you to....

Crughon Headquarters:  Timing is absolutely vital in these next scenes
and you will likely take several tries to succeed.  As soon as the
case opens, go to the back wall by the card reader.  Ready the
invisibility pill, but wait until the door is almost completely open
on the Crughon guards before using it.  Don't move until the second
guard clears you, then go down the ramp.  Don't head for the door.
It's a dummy to trick you.  Instead, go carefully forward past the
guard and tuck in behind the crates on the left.  There is just barely
time to make it, and you can't bump a Crughon, but it CAN be done.
Have patience.

Once you're safely hidden, examine the crates until you find the one
you can open.  Hide in it, and you'll be taken to the cargo room.  As
soon as you emerge from the crate, Lo'Ann's pendant will chat you up
and tell you the only way to defeat the Crughons.  This involves
hacking into the master computer, but, worse than that, it also
More[n,Y,=]           involves another of those nasty little arcade sequences.is one
isn't as hard, but it's TIMED, so SAVE before you go out the door
into....

Chutes & Ladders:  Actually, it ought to be "shoot the ladders",
because that's all there are, and this is NOT a fun game for children,
or adults.  I'll try to talk you through it as follows:  When you are
told to go "Right 1", you should actually leave the screen in that
direction.  However, a simple "right" means to remain in the same
frame.  The same will hold true for directions to the left, as the up
and down directions are not confusing.  So, here goes:

Right 1, down, right 1, down, right and down, left 1, down, right 1,
down, right and down.  Left 1, down, down, left 1, down, down, down,
down, right 1, up, up, right 1, up, up, up, then right and down, down,
down, down, down.  Left 1, down, right 1, down, left 2, down, right 1,
and head into the computer room.

Go as quickly as you can to the console in the upper left and use your
card in the console.  The pendant will take over from there, and you
will have saved humanity.  That's nice, but it doesn't do much for
you.  In order to preserve your piece of humanity, you must make it to
the hangar before time runs out.  If your time down was close to three
minutes (my very best time after many runs was 2:35), save the game.
More[n,Y,=]           The hangar is not all the way back up.  Aren't you glad have this
walkthru and don't have to find that out the same way as the idiot who
wrote it?

To the hangar, it's back out and left 1, up, right 2, up, left 1, up,
right 1, up, up, up, up, up.  Left and down, down, down, left 1, down,
down, left 1, up, up, up, up, right 1, up, left 1, up, and right into
the door marked with the arrows.  And now....

WINDOW WASHERS IN SPACE!!

Congratulations.  You get the girl, a better job, and hero status,
while Future Wars gets yet another walkthru.  Au revoir.


Gfiles: 

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
