

CompuServe             TEG-10177




 HERO'S QUEST
    Part 1

 INTRODUCTION

 This walkthru is for a thief character. Other character types can use it, but
they will not get the full benefit.

 When you create your thief, make sure you increase its strength, intelligence,

Press <CR> for more !



CompuServe             TEG-10178

vitality, parry, and magic at least once. It is highly recommended that you give
the extra point to strength, but do with it as you please. You are ready to
begin the game.

 FREEING THE BARONET

 When you enter the town, you automatically go to the sheriff. The sheriff
rambles on about the town and the valley, and he will eventually ask you for
your name. Press return after the test box has been displayed (with your name
already in it). After the conversation, go up to him and ask him about the guild
hall.

 !
CompuServe             TEG-10178

 Go left to the guild hall and enter it. Go to the book and sign it. Go to the
board, look at it, and read the notices on it. Go to the guild master and ask
him about the hall. You will have to repeat the question as he is asleep, and
the first time you ask the question, it just wakes him up. Then ask him about
Antwerps. Once he recounts the story, leave the guild hall. (Of course, you do
realize the tourists were the two guys from Andromeda.)

 Being bored with this, go to the inn (one screen to the right) and ask the
innkeeper about the inn. If you wish, you can also ask him about Shema (his
wife), Abdulla Doo (his friend), and about the lost caravan.

 Once you are finished, leave the inn and go to the upper right (until you

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe             TEG-10180

change screens). Go to the centaur and ask her about the fruit and her father.
Buy fruit (do this six times) and vegetables (do this 2 times).

 Next, go to the dry goods store and ask the merchant about the weapons he has,
or about the store. Buy two flasks and one dagger, then leave the store. Exit
the town by going down to the lower right part of the screen.

 Once outside the town, go down two times, and right once. Take some of the
water from the falls. Try climbing the cliff (try about four times). If that
does not work, take some rocks, and start throwing them. Keep on doing this
until you hit the door three times, which will make the hermit come out. (This
took me 18 tries.) Once he comes out and shows you the ladder, climb up the

Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10181

cliff. Go to the door and knock. After knocking, go right twice (the first right
brings you to the rock; the second presses you against it so that you can
survive).

 Enter the cave and sit down at the table. Ask the hermit about the cave, his
family, the ladder, the spell, and finally about the trigger spell. Ask for the
scroll (respond yes to his question), then take the scroll. Say thank you and
leave.

 Climb down and go left six times. Near the end of this trip, you should be
following a white stag. When you enter this little niche of the woods, the dryad
appears. When she asks "Are you one with the woods?" say yes. Leave by going to

Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10182

the right, then go up. Take some mushrooms (type it in twice), then eat some
mushrooms (do this only _once_). The colors are neat, huh?

 After your psychedelic experience, go up four times; ignore the goblin screen.
Go to the skull at the gate and ask about the deal. (Respond yes to his
question.) Now, go down, right, up, right, and up. Once here, you will see the
seed and the plant the dryad wanted. As a thief, try climbing up the rocks and
catching the seed. You can also throw a rock and knock the seed out of the air,
or you can cast a fetch spell. Once you have the seed, go right, up, right, and
up.

 This is Erana'a Peace. Go to the tree and take some flowers (do this twice),

Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10184

then eat some of the fruit. After eating the fruit, sleep. (If you're a magic
user, the rock here has the calm spell. You must go to the rock and cast the
open spell. The rock will move and the scroll for the calm spell will be hidden
underneath.) After sleeping, go down, then right.

 There is a extremely large, tough ogre here. You _do not_ want to fight this
ogre. When he starts walking toward you, go down and around him, dodge him, and
enter the cave. Go up to the bear and feed him. (If you're a magic user, you can
cast the calm spell.) "Sneak" so you are now tip-toeing. Go right, then go to
the kobold. Take the key from him, and go left. Use the key on the bear, and he
will be transformed into the missing baronet!


Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-12734

 HERO'S QUEST is published and distributed by Sierra On-Line.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Andrew Aye. All rights reserved.

Last page !

CompuServe             TEG-10176

HERO'S QUEST (a.k.a. QUEST FOR GLORY)

 1 Introduction, Freeing the
    Baronet
 2 Baba Yaga, Dispel Potion
 3 Freeing Elsa, Fulfilling the
    Prophecy, Endgame
 4 Additional Encounters and Items

Enter choice !

CompuServe             TEG-10185




 HERO'S QUEST
    Part 2

 SURVIVING BABA YAGA AND THE DISPEL POTION

 Unfortunately, you are still in the cave. Go down and you will immediately be
confronted by the ogre. You can fight him if you want, but make sure you have
saved your game before doing so. The sane thing to do is escape the battle, and
go to the left. Go to the left again, then down four times.

Press <CR> for more !



CompuServe             TEG-10185


 Go to the centaur and ask him about his farm, the brigands, the brigands'
leader, and the warlock. You can also ask him about the healer, harvest time,
and crops.

 Go to the right, then go to the tree, and climb it. This will take many, many
attempts (it took me about 21 tries). Once you're up in the tree, look at the
nest, then at the ring. Take the ring. Go to the house and knock on the door.
Give the ring to the healer. You automatically leave the house, so you have to
knock on the door again. Once inside the second time, look at the house and the
bird. Give some of the flowers from Erana's Peace to her (do this only once so
you'll still have some), then give her all your mushrooms. Buy the undead
 !
CompuServe             TEG-10186

unguent and leave.

 Go right three times and you will meet the big bad dude from the north. _Do
not_ try to fight this guy because he will turn you into mincemeat (just in time
for Christmas) in a second. Casting a spell at him won't work, either; even
before you complete the spell, you will have endangered yourself. Instead,
bargain with him, and give him your fruit. Leave (go to the left once), and rest
here for a while (rest as may times as you can).

 Go down and to the left twice. If you meet a fox, free him from the trap. You
are back at the town gates. Go up twice so that you're in front of the castle.
The guard will open the gate for you. Now, go up twice to the front entrance to

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe             TEG-10188

the castle doors where you are formally congratulated by the old windbag of a
king. Ask him about the curse, Baba Yaga, his daughter, and finally, the baronet
(you can tell he was thankful for what you did). Leave the room by going left.

 Go down then to the right. Go to the window and answer yes to the proposal made
by the stable manager. Once you are finished cleaning up the stable (ugh!), go
to the left, and down. Yell up to the guard and ask him about the rewards. Go
down twice and left once so that you enter the town.

 Go left and up into the magic shop. Here you can buy either the open spell, the
dart spell, or the fetch spell. You should buy at least one of them (the open
and/or the dart spell). You can also buy a potion if you want. _Do not_ spend

Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10189

all your money as there as more important things left to get. While Zara is here
ask, her about the valley, the town, the Aura, magic, Baba Yaga, Erasmus,
wizards, the Curse, and the Baron.

 Leave the shop, go right, then to the upper right. Go to the dry goods store
and buy two daggers. Leave the town and go the dryad (from the town gates go
down twice and left five times). Respond yes to her question, and take the acorn
from the ground.

 Go right, up twice, then left twice. Talk to the Meeps. Ask the green Meep
about magic, and ask it for some green fur. Take the scroll and the fur.


Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10190

 Go right twice then up three times. Go to the skull and respond yes. Give it
the gem and go past the gate. Say the rhyme ("Hut of brown, now sit down"),
enter the hut, and go to the pot. When asked, say your name, and respond yes to
the next two questions.

 Go down twice and save your game. Go to the bush in which the goblin is hidden
(the upper right), go to the left, and as the bush moves, type in "kill bush."
Once you have killed the goblin, search the body. Once you have the money from
the goblin, go right. Beware: Now that you have killed the first goblin,
whenever you enter, the goblins will want to fight you. You will have to start
the fight, but whenever you kill them, they will come back in stronger numbers
(e.g., after killing the first goblin, the next time you will have to kill two

Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10191

goblins).

 Go right four times to the healer's hut. Knock on the door and give her the
acorn, the water, and the green fur. Ask her about the potion components she
needs. Leave and rest outside.

 Go down three times, left, then up. Throw your daggers at the board. Take your
daggers back. Keep doing this until it is night (be careful because your screen
will not change; you have to check the time with the Control-T function). Once
it is night, climb the town wall, go to the upper right, and to the left to the
bar. Go up into the alley and then to the flashing coin.


Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10192

 When the thieves appear, show them the thief's sign. They will tell you the
password. Once you know the password, leave the alley. Go into the bar and go to
the Goon. Tell him the password.

 Listen to the guild master's outrage, then go to Bruno (the guy behind the
door) and buy a license, some thief's tools, and an extra pick. Go to the guild
master and ask him about the guild, the brigands, and a traitor. Play the dagger
game with him. (Note: His accuracy with the dagger increases with the amount you
bet.) Once finished, leave by climbing the ladder, and exiting the bar.

 This is were it gets extremely tricky. You must watch your clock; when it
becomes midnight, you must leave the town, and go to the farm on the northern

Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10194

side of the town. Use the undead unguent, then go to the left and down. Take the
mandrake root which is on the tombstone to your left (it's the red plant coming
out of the ground near the tombstone). While you're out here, go back to the
screen with the mushrooms (down twice and left three times). Dance for the
fairies, then ask for some fairy dust. As soon as you have both the fairy dust
and mandrake root, return to the town and make your way back to the bar.

 From the bar, go left one screen, and go up to the pink house. Pick the door
(this will take a few tries). Once inside, "sneak." Get the music box, the
candelabra, and the vase. Go back to the desk and search it. Go to the painting,
move it, pick the safe, and take the coins. Once you have the coins, close the
safe and replace the painting. Leave the house and "walk." Go down and left.

Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10195


 Pick the door of the blue house. Get the candlesticks. Go to the basket and
take it (it has pearls inside). Go to the desk, search it, then go to the couch,
and search it. Pet the cat, leave the house, and climb the town wall.

 Note: Make sure you clean out all of these houses before dawn.

 Go down once, left twice, up four times, left, and up. Say the rhyme again.
Enter the house and answer yes to the witch's question.

 Congratulations! You have survived Baba Yaga!


Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10196

 HERO'S QUEST is published and distributed by Sierra On-Line.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Andrew Aye. All rights reserved.

Last page !

CompuServe             TEG-10176

HERO'S QUEST (a.k.a. QUEST FOR GLORY)

 1 Introduction, Freeing the
    Baronet
 2 Baba Yaga, Dispel Potion
 3 Freeing Elsa, Fulfilling the
    Prophecy, Endgame
 4 Additional Encounters and Items

Enter choice !

CompuServe             TEG-10197




 HERO'S QUEST
    Part 3

 FREEING ELSA AND FULFILLING THE PROPHECY

 Once Baba Yaga's speech is over, go down, right, down, right twice, and climb
the town wall. (If it is daylight, enter the town through the gate.) Go to the
thieves guild. Once in the thieves guild, go to Bruno and sell the music box,
candelabra, vase, candlesticks, and pearls. Leave the guild and the bar.

Press <CR> for more !



CompuServe             TEG-10197


 Wait for daybreak. Once dawn has arrived, go back into the alley and give the
beggar some money. Ask about the brigands, thieves, the bar, and dragon breath,
then leave the alley.

 Go to the healer's house and give her the fairy dust. Go out, then reenter and
get the dispel potion. Go back to the town gate and wait for midday. Once it is
midday, from the town gate go down once (if you're at the healer's house when
midday arrives, go down twice), then go to your left. Bruno and Brutus should be
here, but it is a slightly random thing. Listen to what they say. If you can,
kill Brutus with long-range weapons like thrown daggers and the dart spell. If
you cannot kill Brutus this way, go down then up quickly...very _quickly_. If

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe             TEG-10199

you don't, you will be killed by Bruno. Kill Brutus. Once he is dead, search his
body and take the key.

 Next, go down, left, up twice, right twice, then down. Bruno should be here. Go
up to him and buy some information about the thieves guild, the Baron, and Baba
Yaga. When you leave, he should say something about the dragon breath, and you
should gain two points.

 Go down twice, left three times, and down one more time. Go to the left of the
screen and search the rocks. Use the key on the door, then open it. Go forward
slightly (but not much!) and say Hiden Goseke. The troll should move back. Enter
the cave, go left, down, then right. Exit the screen on the lower right cave. Do
 !
CompuServe             TEG-10200

not go left!

 Here you should cast the calm spell then go to the gate. Either pick the door,
or cast an open spell. Once it's unlocked, open the gate, and go in.

 This is the trap room. Go to the far left and go forward. Cross the chasm using
the right-hand plank (the one with a square on it). Once you have crossed the
chasm, go to the two stacks. Be careful! Once you are close to the stacks, go in
between them by moving DIAGONALLY. Go to the door and open it.

 This is a time-pressure event, so go quickly. First, close and lock the door.
Then, go to the chair by the door (upper right side), and "use" the chair to

Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10201

block the door. Go to the candelabra and wait for some of the brigands to enter.
Once they are near the table, "use" the candelabra to block their path. Go to
the lower part of the table and wait. Once they start to move (wait until the
second or third one has started to move), "use" the rope, and do your Tarzan
impression. When this is finished, open the door and meet ME.

 This is the warlock. Ask him about the brigands, the mirror, Elsa, Toro, the
enchantment, and a dispel potion. Also you can ask him about himself, the search
for Elsa, and the Baron. When you start moving, he disappears using his private
exit.

 This maze is actually very easy. First, go right and up. Then, go left and

Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10202

through the door. When you come out, go down and right through the next door.
Pull the chain after you appear by the doorway. Go back, left, then up through
the door. Go up to the door there, and "open" it. _Quickly_ go back or to your
left. Once the board has fallen, go to the door and open it.

 Here you meet Elsa. Once you see her and she has challenged you, use the dispel
potion on her. She and Elsa escape into the wild, blue yonder. Get the healing
potions and the mirror. Go to your right and enter the caves again. Leave the
caves and go to Baba Yaga's hut (up five times, left, then up again). Enter the
hut, but this time use the mirror. You have done it: You have completed the
prophecy!


Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10203

 HERO'S QUEST is published and distributed by Sierra On-Line, Inc.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Andrew Aye. All rights reserved.

Last page !

CompuServe             TEG-10176

HERO'S QUEST (a.k.a. QUEST FOR GLORY)

 1 Introduction, Freeing the
    Baronet
 2 Baba Yaga, Dispel Potion
 3 Freeing Elsa, Fulfilling the
    Prophecy, Endgame
 4 Additional Encounters and Items

Enter choice !

CompuServe             TEG-10205




 HERO'S QUEST
    Part 4

 ADDITIONAL ENCOUNTERS AND ITEMS

 1. The walkthru didn't cover the encounter with Erasmus. This was omitted
because it is not really useful for thieves. But this is the only way to get
Razzle Dazzle. When you meet Erasmus, you can ask him about magic, the Aura, and
wizards. Once you win against him, he gives you the spell. When you have it, you

Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10205

can leave.

 2. The walkthru doesn't return a troll's beard or a cheetaur's claw to the
healer. Doing so is worth a couple of points.

 3. A fighter should kill one (at least) of every type of creature.

 4. Sleep with the hermit. This is fun.

 5. Kill the Ogre. This is hard, but fun to try. Hint: Try attacking him first
with long-range weapons, and fight him for a while, then escape and drink some
potions. Use some more dart spells on him, then kill him during the fight.

Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe             TEG-10206


 HERO'S QUEST is published and distributed by Sierra On-Line, Inc.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Andrew Aye. All rights reserved.

Last page !