                              Hero's Quest Solve
                               Written & Solved
                         by Hill Billy and Golden One

様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様

We urge you to try and finish the game before you look at this solve.  However,
if you cannot do so, feel free to get some hints.

Some hints on playing the game.  You should rest sometime or your stamina will
decrease.  To find out about your stats, hit Ctrl-S.

First, ask the Sheriff and Otto questions, (e.g., ask about hero, ask about
baron, ask about elsa, just to name a few).  Next go northeast, you should see a
girl selling fruit.  Buy those.  Next enter the grocery store and buy a flask or
two.  You should also go to the Magic Shop NW from the Sheriff if you're a Magic
User or have Magic Skill.  Then you should go to the Adventurer's Guild and ask
the Adventurer questions if you're a Fighter.

Next, exit the town, go north, you will see the house of the healer.  Enter it
and ask her about spells, magic, potion and all the goodies. Now exit the house,
there is a tree next to the house, go to tree.  Now try to climb the tree (You
should be able to if you're in the right place.)  In the bird's nest there
should be a ring, get it and reenter the house and sell it to the healer. When
you are in the house the healer would probably want you to go get some stuff for
her (You get money for it).  Also, in the healer's place you can get potions.
Listed below are a few of the things that the healer wants (the most important
one):

The magic mushroom - exit the healer house, go all the way to the left, just
before the last screen, go down, pick up 9 mushrooms.
The flower - exit the healer house, go left one till you meet the centaur, go
all the way up and left one, get 9 flowers (well, pick the flower three times)
The ring - It's in the bird nest
The Cheetaur claw - I don't know where that is, but it isn't a necessity
The Troll beard - Where it is, who knows.

Along the way, you would also expect to see a a stag, follow it until you get to
the screen with the tree, go near the tree and something should happen. Get all
that is requested and bring it to the healer.  They are:

The Green Fur - this can be acquired from the Meeps people.  From the healer's
house go all the way to the left, they are the little people that keep popping
up from the ground, go near one of them and say "talk" one of them should come
up, the green one (hence the green fur).
The Flying Water - the flask from the grocery store would come in handy here.
Exit the town, go down two screen till you see a screen with a log in the upper
right hand corner, go right, you will see a river, get the water.
The Faery Dust - This can only be acquired at night, press Ctrl-T to see what
time it is, this is acquired in the same screen where you got the magic
mushroom, when you approach them, they should start speaking to you and to
themselves, they would ask you to dance, say "yes", after you are finish they
will ask what you want and say "ask for faery dust"
The Magic Acorn - the Dryad will give it to you the moment she disappear (this
is where the stag is)
The Seed of the Seed Spitting Spores - Use the Fetch spell to get it.  You'll
know when you meet them (Hint:  They spit the seed, hence the name Seed Spitting
spores or something like that)
All this should make the Dispel Potion for later.  You should get this as soon
as possible.

THE TOWN

The Magic shoppe in town - you will acquired a whole bunch of stuff here,
including the Flame Dart, Open, and Fetch Spell.  The spell can only be bought.
You can get money by spelling the healer the stuff that was ask.

The Grocery store - get some daggers if you have Throwing skill (about 3),
flasks, and chainmail armor if you have enough money.

The Saloon in town - The password for the guy sitting on the door is
"SCHWEINHUND" (The password can be acquired at night when you enter the alley
behind the tavern and the thief jump up at you, just "show sign" and they will
let you free and give you the password.) Say that password to Crusher and you
will be allowed entrance to the Theives' Guild.  Next talk to that guy sitting
at the desk, when he is finish, buy the lock pick (this will be used to pick
lock, at night only.) You can also play the dart game w/the guy sitting at the
desk for Throwing skill.

The Sheriff's House - To the left of the Grocery store. Keep picking the lock,
it won't open for a while (you will get experience points for trying.) Once
inside get the musical box (don't open it), next go to fireplace, get the vase,
move the painting, pick the safe's lock and get the stuff inside then get out.
You can reenter the Thieves Guild (inside the Tavern) and sell the stuff to
them, and buy the acme tool kit.  Drop the lock pick you bought early.

The old lady's house - pick the lock, get the candle holder, open the drawer,
get the coins and get out before you meet a surprise.

OUTSIDE THE TOWN

The Hermit - this is in the same screen where you got the flying water, there
should be a door up there, get next to the rock proportionally to the door and
"climb" it should say that it is looking for a good spot to climb, if not the
sucker would climb and you would get climbing experience. Next, go to the door
and knock and move out of the way or something dreadful will happen, move to
the right. When you enter the place, start asking about stuff, like "ask
scroll".  He will give you the Trigger spell.

The big mutt at the icy screen - Give him all of the fruit (apples) you acquired
in town, he would in turn give you a glowing gem. Keep it as it will be used to
open the place of Baba Yaba (the chicken feet place).

The ogre that's guarding the cave (to the left and down one after the flower
screen) - If you want to, you can fight him if you think you're good enough.  If
not, try to dodge him.  When you're in the cave, cast the Calm spell (this can
be acquired at the flower screen. Hint: Cast a spell there).  Go to the right of
the big figure and you should see a figure sitting.  You should now cast the
Dazzle spell which you acquired from the wizard Erasmus (Hopefully, if not, just
dodge him and get as close to him and then fight him.)  Then after you kill him,
get the key and explore the bottom.  You'll find something there.  If not,
explore more.  Now go out of the screen (upper-left) and then cast calm again
immediately.  Use the key to free the bear.  And you should get a reward for
this.

Erasmus the Wizard - At Healer's hut, go all the way right.  You should save it
here when you see a house on the top of the screen somewhere.  Then signs will
pop up (e.g., Welcome to Magic Mountain, Now Go Home, etc.).  Climb the path and
then you should get to the house.  Then you meet a Gargoyle.  Answer his
questions and you shall be able to enter.  (Note: You cannot climb to his house
more then three times in a row.)  Questions commonly asked are:

What is your name?  (You should know this)
Who do you seek?  (Erasmus)
What is your goal?  (To become a hero)
Who's spell protects Spielburg?  (Erana's)
What is the thieves' password?  (Anything except SCHWEINHUND)

In the house, you should go straight up the stairs only.  Then you'll meet
Erasmus and Fenrus.  Ask them questions if you wish.  Then play the Magician's
Maze if you're a Magician or have Magic skill and Open, Fetch, Trigger, and
Flame Dart spell are in your possession.  If you beat him, you get the Dazzle
spell.

Baba Yaba's Hut (The house with chicken feet) - Give the glowing gem you got
from the babarian you got trading fruit for to the talking skull.  You should
be able to get past the gate now.  Now, say these words:

"House of brown, now sit down"

And watch what happens.  Now try to enter the hut.  You should be able to, but
it's sorta hard.  Baba Yaba is going to turn you into a frog now.  You are going
to have to say 'Ask about rhyme', then watch what happens and answer everything
she asks you.  You will now have to get the Mandrake root from the graveyard.
(It's the red plant growing up at the top of the screen.  You'll have to get it
at precisely midnight though.  And at the time, the spooks party.)

The brigands - When you come to a screen with a blue bouncing Antwerp, you
should dodge him and go to the right.  Keep on going to the right, then down,
the left.  You should save it now.  You'll meet the brigands now.  Dodge the
arrows and go all the way to the log at the left.  Now climb over and you HAVE
to beat those three brigands.  Looks impossible, but it's only improbable.
After that, go left and cast the Calm spell on the Minotaur.  Now, cast the Open
spell to open the gate.  Open the gate and go through.  Now, you should come
into a room.  Don't step on the carpet and go right.  Go across the right
bridge.  Now, go to the place where the boxes and bages meet.  Look at the
ground.  This is imparative.  Then jump over the wire.  Go through the door and
you should come to another room.  Close the door behind you and go to the upper
right door.  Push the chair and push the candle.  Now go to the middle of the
table in the middle of the room.  When the three Stooge looking soldiers start
going around the table (They have already come towards the candle and are coming
back the other way) you get the rope and have fun.  Now, open the door and you
shall meet Yorick.  Just talk to him and ask questions if you wish.  Now, save
it here.  Follow the path and go to the door on the lower-left.  You should come
out on the upper right red door.  Go to the door with the smiley faces now and
enter.  Now type pull and the door on the upper-right should open.  Now go back
and go to the door that you pulled open.  You should now emerge from the door
above the upside-down 'Exit' sign.  Open the door and move back or you will have
a miserable experience.  Now open the door and you'll meet Elsa (aka The Brigand
Leader).  Splash the Dispel Potion on her.  And watch the cartoon.  Now go over
to her desk and get the two Heal Potions and the Magic Mirror and go to the
middle-right of the screen and exit.  You'll come to the screen with the Antwerp
again.  Avoid him again and go back to Baba Yaba.  You should know the way by
now.  Enter the hut the same way and show her the mirror.  Watch the cartoon
again and now go back to the castle.  Ta-da!  Watch the longer cartoon and have
patience for the next Hero's Quest II:  Trial by Fire!  Hope you had fun.  Maybe
not cause of this solve.

Remember to support your API sites...
 
 
 


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
