Hints for Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade

This is a list of the topics in this hint file:
INDY AT SCHOOL, HENRY'S HOUSE, ROMAN CATACOMBS, VENICE, THE NAZI CASTLE,
BERLIN, and THE GRAIL!


W A R N I N G: The answers start HERE!
Note:As you scroll down the page the answers be more direct.

INDY AT SCHOOL

What should I do first?
     Have you gone into the locker room?
     You can look in all the rooms.
     Why don't you stop asking questions and look around?

Is there anything I need to get before I leave the school?
     Yes.
     Look in your office.
     Did you look on your desk?
     GET the PACKAGE.

How do I leave the school?
     You can't go out the door. The kids are there!
     What else can you go out of?
     Yes! The window!


HENRY'S HOUSE
  What do I need to do here?
     You can look around, first.
     You can also GET some things.
     Did you get the TAPE?
     How about the picture? Did you get that?
     Did you get the Old Book?

  Where is the machete?
     Did you look under something?
     No? That is good...there is NO machete!

  Where is the tape?
     The tape is behind something.
     It is behind the bookcase.
     PULL the bookcase.

  Where is the old book?
     The old book is in the chest.
     The chest is under the tablecloth.

  How do I remove the tablecloth?
     You must take everything else off it first.
     PICK UP the PLANT.

  Where is the key to the chest?
     The key is inside something.
     Inside something LUMPY.
     Yes, inside the tape.

  How do I open the tape?
     You need something tstronger than water.
     Have you looked in your office?
     Did you open any jars?
     USE the TAPE in the JAR.

  How do I get in the attic?
     Well, you must find the attic first.
     That would be pretty hard...there is NO attic.

VENICE

  What can I get in the library?
     Books.
     In fact THREE books.
     Three books and a metal post.

  Which slab has the catacomb under it?
     Did you LOOK at the GRAIL DIARY?
     What are you waiting for??? LOOK GRAIL DIARY.

  How can I pick up the slab?
     You need something with leverage.
     USE the METAL POST

  What can I do with the lovers?
     Did you talk to them?
     Did you look at their table?
     Did you look at the wine?
     Did you GET their wine?

  Why does Marcus keep getting killed by the knights?
     I have NO idea.
     There are NO knights in VENICE...at least not in THIS game.

ROMAN CATACOMBS

  What can I get here?
     Something sharp.
     A hook.

  Where is the pirates hook?
     On a dead pirate, I guess.
     Look at a few skeletons.

  Where is the match?
     Hmmmmm..I don't know!

  How do I remove the plug?
     You must go UNDER the plug to remove it.
     Do you have the hook?
     Did you put the hook in the plug?
     Did you WHIP the hook?

  How do I get the torch?
     Well, the torch is held by DRY mud.
     Maybe you can WET the dry mud.
     Put some water on it.
     Use the wine bottle.

  How do you open this door? (The one with the three panels)
     Look at the grail diary.
     You must push the panels until you get the correct combination.

  What do I do with this machine?
     You need to turn it on.
     Also, you need to fix it.
     Use something ROPE-like to fix the machine.
     Use the red cordon.

  How do I get this stone bridge down?
     See the previous question.

  How do I play the skeletons?
     Again, LOOK at the DIARY.
     Remember, Indy is FACING you. His left is YOUR right.

  How do I get out of the catacombs?
     You can go out of the manhole.
     First, you may need to open the rusty lock on the grating.

THE NAZI CASTLE

  Where is my father?
     He is on the top floor (3rd)
     In a room.

  How do I get past the guards?
     You can fight some.
     You can talk to some.
     (See the WHAT TO SAY at the end of this file)

  Where is the key to the uniform lock?
     It is upstairs.
     On the second floor.
     In a chest.

  How do I get past the guard dog (In Vogel's Room)?
     You can give him something.
     Feed him something.
     Feed him the roast boar.

  How do I get the Roast Boar?
     Well, you need to cool the coals.
     Use a liquid to cool the coals.
     Pour some beer on the coals.
     Now, get the boar!

  How can I past Biff the Nazi?
     Give him something.
     Maybe you can get him drunk.
     You need something BIG to get him drunk.
     Fill the trophy with beer!
     Give the trophy to him!

  How do I get in the alarm room?
     Give the guard a book.
     Give guard, Mein Kampf

  How do I disarm the alarm?
     Go to the alarm room.
     Look at the security system.
     You know that water (or liquid) can damage electric equiptment.
     Pour some beer on the grate!

  I'm tied up (with my dad). How do I get free?
     Well, you can't use a lighter. (Like in the movie)
     Try to PUSH or PULL the chairs.
     You can go to the suit of armor.
     Line up the axe with the ropes.
     Push the suit of armor.
     SWOOOOSH. You are free.

  I'm free (of the ropes), I got my dad, now what?
     Well, you can leave!
     Look for a secret exit.
     Go to the fireplace.
     Push something.
     Push the left statue....goodbye!

BERLIN

  What do I give to Hitler?
     Something for him to write in.
     Give him a book OR
     the unsigned pass you got from Vogel's room.

AIRPORT

  I don't have money?!? Now what?
     You can steal a ride.
     You can fly the biplane.
     Or you can try to ride the zepplin.

  How do I fly the biplane?
     Try to use the manual?
     You knowm the one in the library.

  How can I get on the zepplin?
     You need to find tickets.
     The man in the airports has some in his pocket.
     Have Henry talk about the man's grandchildren...
     while you try to grab 'em!


ZEPPLIN RIDE

  How do I get in the locked room?
     Well, have you listened to any music?
     Have Henry give coins to the piano player.
     When the guard leaves, go in!

  They turned us around, now what?
     Well, you must try to escape.
     Do you have the wrench? (It was behind the locked door)
     Use wrench in hole
     Turn wrench.


ESCAPE FROM GERMANY

  How do I get past the boarder guards?
    Show them what they are asking for.
    The pass! (Signed by Hitler!)

THE GRAIL?!?

  How do I get past the first danger? (The pentinent man will pass)
     You must be humble before god.
     A humble man kneels before god.
     KNEEL!
     Where do you kneel? Look in the REAL diary.
     Walk to the `x' that is in the real diary.

  How can I get past the second danger? (Word of God)
     You can walk on SOME of the stones.
     You can only walk on the stones that are in the name of god.
     Look at the top of the screen for the letters you can walk on.

  How can I get past the third danger? (Leap from the lions head)
     Just walk across.
     You must walk to a certain part of the screen.
     (Sorry, I can't describe it here.)

  Which is the REAL grail?
     Remember the inscription in the catacombs?
     The grail changes each game.
     You choose.

  Rats?!? Why do the rats keep killing me?
     There WERE rats in the movie...
     But, no rats in the game.




WHAT TO SAY

  In the castle:

  If you go one screen to the right from the entrance,
  (the one near the storage room where he found the uniform)
  you tell the nazi (while wearing the IndyWear):
              You are here to talk to the prisoner.
              You are Dietrich's successor.
              He is leaking information.

  Tell the nazi to the north (near the steps):
              You are selling jackets.
              You got authorazation.
              They are 15 Marks.

  For the 2nd floor nazi (near the art room), wear the servent uniform and
  GIVE the guard your painting.

  For the other 2nd floor guard: You must avoid or fight.

  For the 3rd floor nazi near the steps:
              Tell him his pants are wrinkled.
              And he has a stain.
              Then call him a baffoon.

  For BIFF: See hints above

  For the other 3rd floor nazi:
              When he asks for a pass, ask him if he
              has top secret clearence.


THINGS TO TRY (After you solve the game)

  Shut off the lights in the gym.

  Punch Hitler.

  Let the axe (in the castle) hit your dad.

  Drink from the wrong grail.

  Drink the Stein.

  Walk past the seal with the grail.

  Get the grail (and return it) before Elsa gets it.


Hints by Mark Schey. If you still have questions, leave E-mail to me
on CompuServe at 70701,1411.


************************************************************



Here it is!!! The solve to....

      Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade (Indy music added here)
                      by Shadow Dragon (who else?)

Well, there are lots of random things in the game so what might
work for me wont work for everyone cause I am not entirley sure
what parts are random.

   In the beginning, you can go box if ya want by going to your
locker room. Then go out the door and talk to Marcus. Ask him
about the guy's situation and the new archaeologist. Then go
back to the 1st door you saw and open it. When inside, tell the
kids you have a solution for everyone and for the secretary to
take down their names. When inside your office, pick up all the
junk mail and papers to get the package. Open the package and
there's the grail diary! Then leave by the window.
   Then go to Henry's house and go to the bedroom. Pick up the
painting of the trophy. Go back to the living room and pick up
the plant and table cloth to move them. Then go to the leaning
bookcase and push it. Get the tape on the back of the bookcase.
Go back to your office and use the jar of liquid on the tape. Go
back to your dad's house and open the chest with it. Get the old
book and leave to Italy.
   In the library, go to the lower shelves to look for books.
Keep going to the lower shelves until Mein Kampf, biplane
instruction book, and a catacombs book are found. Mein Kampf is
the leaning book, the biplane book is black and in a how-to-do
enclopedia like series. The catacombs is a yellow book in a
series about maps of ancient Rome. Now go find the post and red
cordon and pick them up. After that, open the computer version of
the grail diary and it will show a window and tell what plaque to
look at. Go find the correct window and look at it. It says it's
the correct window.Now look at the correct plaque and use the post
on the slab with the roman numeral from the plaque.
   Now look at the book about the catacombs. The top map is the
upper level which you're on and the lower map is the bottom
level. The sections where it shoes a closer view of Indy are the
round looking parts which connect tunnels. Find the nearest one
from the one you started from and go there to pick up the
skeleton's arm/hook. Now keep going till you come to the
manhole. Go up it and look at the wine bottle near the lovers.
Get the wine bottle and use it in the fountain. Go back to the
torch you should have passed along the way to get to the
manhole. Use the bottle on it and pick it up.
   You should have fallen into a passge. Go right and choose the
room on the right. Keep going past the bridge to look at the
inscription. The inscription will narrow the grail choices to 2.
BE SURE TO WRITE THEM DOWN. That is very important for the
end.Now go to the plug and use the hook and whip on it. Go to
the room on left and climb the ladder. Then go right and go to
the room to the southeast where water use to be until the plug
was pulled. Continue along the passage.
   Go north into the machine room and use the red cordon on the
machine. Then use the wheel to operate it. Leave and go east and
north and east again to a room with statues. Use the computer grail
book again and push the statues to correct combo. Enter the door
and go in a westerly direction past the bridge and skeleton room.
In the next section go northwest to the skull playing room. Look at
the computer grail book for the correct notes and play them. Enter
the door and continue to go in an easterly direction to the tomb.
Open the tomb and look and then go to the lock and pull it.
Leave to the castle where your father is!
   Once in the castle, ask the butler if he has relatives near
him and till him Otto sent you but he is ok. Then say you have
proof you are telling the truth. Go north to passageways and go
south then east. Choose the lower door on the east wall. Talk to
the drunk about everything except don't say he's drunk. After
getting the stein from him, go to the next door in the hallway
just above the one you're in. Once there, get the ale from keg
and use it in the fire place. Get more ale and get the roast
boar after it cools off. Go back to castle entrance and go to
the hall.
   I am not sure if the guards are random about what you can say
to keep from fighting them. I will tell what I said. Go to south
hallway and tell the guard you have come to interrogate the
prisoner, you are Gestapo, and ask if he's leaking information.
Then go to 1st room on right to get servant uniform. Then go to
room on left and push the suit of armor in the far right corner.
Leave and go to north hallway. Tell the guard you're selling
leather jackets for $15 and you have authorization. Go upstairs
and go south and east. Enter the north door and open the trunk
to get money. Then wear servant uniform. Walk south to the guard
and give him the painting. Watch the cut-scene about the
painting and change back to Indywear.
   Now go to east end of hallway and north. Enter the door and
open the trunk for the uniform. Look at the uniform to get the
key. Go back to where you got the servant uniform and unlock the
officer uniform. Go back to where you found the key and wear the
officer uniform. Now go north to hallway and walk east. Tell the
guard you are on official bussiness and new here. After asking
for authorization, tell him to go talk to the colonel. Go south
and enter the room on west side. Get the 1st aid kit and leave.
Go north and west till you can go west no more. Go north and
enter the 1st door you come to. Tell the guard you're on
official business. Leave by the way you came in and continue on.
   Go north and enter the door farthest right. Tell the guard
you're on official business, you're new, and when he asks about
you ask him if he has clerance. Open the door and enter and open
the window. Go outside and walk to the 3rd window. Open it and
enter. Push the loose brick near the window and go back outside.
Use the whip on the brick and enter the 1st window on 3rd level.
Open the cabinet to get money and come back for your father
later. Go back to 2nd level by pointing the arrow at the 3rd
window. Once inside, wear the officer uniform. Open the door and
go to the door on the far left. Give Mein Kampf to the guard and
use the stein with ale on the grating. Leave and go to the
stairs leading to 3rd level.
   Go to the 1st door you find. Before entering, tell the guard
he has wrinkled pants, a stain, and for the buffoon to get out
of your way. In the office, give the roast to the dog. Get the
trophy and open the cabinet to get the pass. Go back to 2nd
level where you gave the guy the painting. This times go to the
room on the far left. Go to the Mona Lisa and move it. Open the
vault and go in. Look at the painting. I couldn't tell anything
except it made the grail seem to be a bowl. Not sure though.
Leave and go to the ale place and fill the trophy with ale. Be
sure to change uniforms before 1st level. Go back to 3rd level
and give the trophy to the big strong Nazi. Go south and tell
the guy the same thing you told the guard about the security
clearance. Go west and north into a room. Get the key there and
go back east and north. Unlock the door your father is in and go
to any guard. They will capture you and put you tied up in
chairs near the knight in armor.
   Have Henry push the chair so the space between the 2 chairs
is at the mark you made earlier on the carpet. Have Indy push
the armor. Once free, push the top statue and leave. Go the
motorcycle and talk to the guard at the guard post. Tell him you
are a superior officer on a top secret mission with no ID. Once
in Germany, have Hitler sign the passcard that had the
combination on it. At the airport, have Indy ask the man about
his grandchildren. Then switch to Henry to steal the tickets.
Leave and go to the biplane or the blimp. Know what to do from
the book if you decide to use the biplane. You don't have much
time. If you go to the blimp, give the man your tickets.
   In the blimp, have Henry put a coin in the piano man's cup.
Then have Indy enter the door and push the radio. Fight the guy
and open the cabinet for the wrench. Leave and use the wrench in
the hole and turn it. Save the game before hand. Climb the
ladder and run from the guards. Go up the ladder in the top left
corner. Keep  going up the ladders to 3rd level. On 3rd level
run to a different ladder going down. Go down to 1st level and
this time you'll go to the biplane. Henry will already be there.
Fly around and dodge the plane. Just don't let them shoot ya
down for a while. After crashing, choose the expensive looking car.
   Give the pass to the guards at the guard posts. Once outside
the grail temple save the game for the last time. Once inside,
go to Donovan and go past the 3 trials. If you die on the trials
you will have to start over from the 1st. The 1st trial is
tricky. You have to get Indy to go more south or he will get cut
all up. The 2nd trial is easy. All you have to do is step on
letters that spell out the word Indy keeps saying. Just wait
till he says the word. For the 3rd trial, immediatly possition
the pointer over the cave to the right and press return to go
there. Once inside, you must choose the correct grail from the
written version of the grail book the game comes with and use it
in the water. Then you can pick up the grail after rescuing your
father and give it to the knight. You can also give it to Elsa
and look at the seal once it is broken to use your whip to get
the grail back. Be sure to give it to the knight. After that,
the game ends! Pretty good game, huh? Corny jokes though.
Good luck. Later....



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
