FOLLOWING IS FROM COMPUTER GAME REVIEW , JAN 92 ISSUE SOME MIS-
SPELLING BUT WHAT THAT HELL DO YOU WANT, ENJOY!!!!!!!!!!!!
                                   mADDOg
GO IRISH IN 92!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


     If your into Norse Mythology then the game Dusk of the Gods by
Interstel is the game for you.  You are a brave warrior who, having
fallen in battle, finds yourself transported to Valhoil by the
choosers of the slain, the Valkyries.  There you are brought before
Odin the All-Father who bestows upon you a truly daunting quest. 
It is your duty to travel to all of the lands of man, giant, elf
and god in order to discover ways to make sure the forces of Angard
win the battle of Ragnarok, the end of the world.  To
accomplish this you will travel for and wide slaying evil beasts
and recovering fabulous treasures.
     Not all of the quests you will undertake will be to aid the
Asgard.  Some must be accomplished in order to obtain weapons and
items that will help you during your adventure.  Don't forget that
information can be the most valuable treasure;  talk to everybody
that you can and take notes on what they tell you.  Occasionally,
one of the people that you encounter will tell you to ask someone
else about a about a "keyword" item.  Write this down and be sure
to ask that person next time.
     Starting off, you can choose to create a character or choose
from pre-made characters that come w/ the game.  The pre-made are
generally specialized but are rounded enough not to be at an
extreme disadvantage during the game.  However, nothing beats a
home-made hero, so you may prefer to create you own.  The creation
process takes place during your character's life and the choices
you make represent the ones made before the beginning of you quest.

Time passes in real time during the creation, so stopping to make
decisions wastes the time you have to develop the character.  It
also takes time to travel from one place to another so try to visit
locations closer to the icon representing your character.  Once
you've finished the creations process, name your hero and start the
game.
     You start out in Asgard in the chambers of Odin.  He will give
you an overview of your quest and your first task. You will have to
find six items: a mountain's root, a cat's footfall, the spittle of
birds, a bear' sinews, a womans beard and the breath of fish, which
will allow the smith Thjasse-Volund to forge fetters to forever
bind the mighty Fenrir Wolf.  Before you begin this search you must
first equip yourself, for one ill-prepared for his journey will not
travel far.  Leave the main building by the west exit and go south
where you will find another small building.  There inghen will give
you boots, a spear and a torch.  With the spear in hand go west to
where there are several warriors in a partially enclosed area.  The
warrior standing near the entrance will ask you to join in on their
training exercises; this is your signal to hack away.  After
killing one of the warriors you will be able to obtain his broad
axe and can use both it and your spear against the next opponent. 
Pick up his axe also, and nw you are ready for some real opponents.

Finish off the last tow warriors and you will be ready to go get
the first item to forge the chains.
     By talking to all of the people in Asgard you will discover
the location of a bear from which you can get the sinews.  You
should kill the wolves too, for the experience and to possibly
increase you warrior skill.  If at any time you find your opponents
too though you can go visit Eil to have your wounds healed.  You
can also go see Hlif for a blessing of protection.  Both are found
northwest of the western entrance to the main hall.  You can also
get you torches blessed by Bjort while visiting Hlif.  If during
your adventure you discover yourself becoming encumbered, look for
and easy-to-find location and dump all of your items that are not
immediately useful - you can always come back to them later.
     By talking to Lady Sif, Sindre and Thor, you will find out
about the terrible fate of Thor's Hammer, Mjolinir.  During a
battle on Midgard the head was split asunder from the haft and fell
upon the battle ground.  UIn order to retieive the head you will
have to travel to Midgard.  Use the north passage out of the cave
and travel southeast to the battlefield.  Look for the large stone
with the face, this is a landvoettir,  and earth spirit.  He
witnessed the battle and revovered the hammer and is quite willing
to part with it for your secrecy.  Give the hammer head to Sindre
and he will reforge Mjollnir.
     Return to Midgard using the south passage this time and go
northwest to find the hold of King Nitheri.  He will tell you of
the kidnapping of his daughter by the giant Treesmiter, and will
ask you to rescue her.  If you wish you can go north to obtain a
bow and arrows before going to assail the giant, west of the king. 
If unencumbered, you will be able to sneak past the majority of
Treesmiter's guards and only have to deal with him.  Killing any of
the giants will allow you to get a stone club which is very heavy
but does 60 points of damage.  YOu decide whether the damage of you
encumbrance is more important to you.  After defeating tresmiter
you will get the key to rescue the princess in the room.  W/ her is
a chest holding the Cloak of Obscurity and the magic sword
Blutgang.  Keep in mind that magic items for the most part have
only limited uses and should not be used unnecessarily.  The
fireball spell of Blutgang is also limited, so use it sparingly.
     Return to King Nitheri and he will give the magic regenerating
shield, Lifegiver, as he promised (use this sparingly). Now if you
travel further west you will come upon the great hall of King
Beowulf where he will ask you to slay a dragon for him. In reutrn
he offers the sword of lightning, Hrunting. You will find the
dragon just south of the hall in the mountains . Be careful
approaching the cave as the dragon will breathe fireballs in a
random pattern. If you get above him and burn down the tree w/ fire
from you sword you will be able to enter his cave and steal hios
hoard.  When you decide to fight himm get between the pillars
directly beneath him and use a patern of moving up, attacking and
retreating to destroy him. Bring the head back to Beowulf and
collect you reward.  If you wish you may speak to the old woman in
a hut and she will give you information on the effects of various
herbs you will encounter during your quest.
     you can now return to the othere part of Midgard through the
tunnel. Speak to the woman in the hut near the cave entrance and
she will direct you to hte hill Lady, Huldre. If you are careful
you will be able to kill her from a distance w/ a wellaimed
fireball from Blutgang. Having slain here go north to the coast and
follow it east until you find a boat, whose captain is Ragnar, the
Storm Raiser. Speak to him using the keyword "father" and he will
give you the Odin Torc (you should have already gotten the Freya
Torc from Huldres' cave).
     These are only a few of the numerous quests you will
undertake. Wresting the chains Ledling and Dromi, which were first
used to bind the Fenrir Wolf, from the warlord Magnus will not be
easy. Nor will stealing the marvelous Mead of Consequence from the
fire giant lord, Surte, fulfilling Odin's promise to the Vanir. Can
you succeed in preventing the forces of Jotunheim from being
victorious at the battle of Ragnarok? The tale is told in the fall
fo the runes; the rest is up to you.