
 KING'S QUEST IV
      Part 1

KING'S QUEST IV: THE PERILS  OF ROSELLA, by Sierra On-Line,  begins with
an animated sequence to establish the plot.  There is nothing for you to
do but sit back  and watch, so grab  your coffee (pop, or  whatever) and
relax.  As the plot unfolds,  Graham, your father, is taken  gravely ill
and you, Rosella, are naturally  distraught.  What can you do,  what can
you  possibly  do???   As  you  sob  your animated heart out, Genesta, a
beautiful fairy, appears and offers you hope.  There is, she tells  you,
a fruit which can restore your father's health.  Joy of joys!  There  is
a catch to this news (isn't there always?).  Genesta will transport  you
to the land where this fruit may be found, but you will have to find  it
for yourself _and_  (there is always  an "and" in  these games) you  are
asked  to  help  Genesta.   It  seems  that  one Lolotte, Genesta's evil
counterpart, stole Genesta's talisman, leaving the good fairy a scant 24
hours or so to live.  Rosella  is transported to the land of  Tamir, her
royal  gown  exchanged  for  common  peasant  garb.  Here your adventure
begins.  And remember: Save your game often!

 LAY OF THE LAND

The first thing to do is wander around.  Make a crude but useful map  of
the areas most  easily accessed.  Tamir  proper is about  5 screens high
and 6 screens wide.  Going north indefinitely will scroll you around  in
a nice loop.  This is not true of the east-west movements.  On the  east
is that vast ocean,  and on the west  is a high mountain  range.  Get to
know where things are and who  you are likely to find around  the place.
Talk to  the inhabitants,  and generally  search around.   Once you have
that done, you may begin solving the various puzzles in this area.

 PUZZLES OF MAINLAND TAMIR

Watch for birds trying to catch  WORMS.  Get the WORM, as you  will need
it later.  Swimming in the POOL  will startle CUPID and net you  his BOW
AND ARROWS.  You will have two arrows only, and they will be put to good
use later.

Under the STONE BRIDGE you will find a GOLD BALL.  Give the BALL to  the
FROG in the lily pond.  Actually  you end up dropping it, and  the frog,
whom  you  cannot  approach,  will  return  it.   Once he does, kiss him
(yuck).  This will  get you a  GOLD CROWN --  good for turning  yourself
into a frog (and there are times when that will come in handy).

Visit the MANSION.  In the living room you will find a secret passageway
with the obligatory winding stairway.  There's no need to climb it  just
yet, nor is there a need to collect the SHOVEL you find at the bottom of
those stairs at  this time.  Search  the shelves in  the living room  to
find a BOOK (The Complete Works of Shakespeare).

Give the  BOOK to  the MINSTREL  (he was  an _extremely_  bad minstrel).
He'll accept the book, take on  a new profession, and give you  his LUTE
in thanks.  (How rewarding to help someone in such a meaningful way!)

Find PAN.  Pan  will ignore you  because he is  busy playing his  flute.
Play the LUTE and Pan will suddenly find you interesting.  Give the LUTE
to PAN, and he will give you the FLUTE in exchange.

 KING'S QUEST IV
      Part 2

Visit the TREE HOUSE.  Unlike normal tree houses that are built high  in
the branches, this one  is nestled in the  roots.  It's a terrific  mess
inside,  so  CLEAN  HOUSE.   Rosella,  working  her domestic magic, will
trigger the return of  the dwarves\ They will  sit down and share  their
dinner with  Rosella.  Speaking  with them  is not  very informative but
does pass the time.

Once they leave, clean the dishes;  notice that the dwarves have left  a
blue POUCH  on the  table.  The  pouch is  filled with  diamonds (Wow!).
Being very honest, Rosella will want to return the pouch to the dwarves.
TAKE THE POUCH and visit the  MINE.  There are two screens in  the mine,
so make certain that you've moved  to the lower level, all the  way east
into the second  screen near the  diamond pail, and  close to the  dwarf
with a white beard.  Give pouch to dwarf.  He tells you to keep it,  and
gives you a LAMP to boot!

Visit the  PIER.  Walk  all the  way to  the end,  which will  cause the
fisherman to stand and return to his shanty.  Enter the shanty and  give
the diamonds  to the  fisherman.  He  will give  you a  FISHING POLE  in
return.  Return to the  end of the pier,  put the worm on  the pole, and
FISH.  This will, oddly enough, get you a DEAD FISH.

Go to the  Waterfall.  Wear the  crown, and you  turn into a  frog.  You
will  automatically  swim  under  the  waterfall,  where you find a cave
entrance.  There is  a BOARD here  which you can  pick up now  or later.
Entering the cave  (it's very dark)  will reveal a  pile of bones  right
next to the entrance.  Get BONE.   (Watch out for the troll!)  Save  the
rest of this cave for later.

 KING'S QUEST IV
      Part 3

Following the path up the mountains  will get you (via Goon Airways)  to
Lolotte's.  The program runs by itself for a while, during which Lolotte
will eye you with great suspicion and have you thrown into the  dungeon.
Never fear: You'll soon be released and given a quest.  The first  quest
is to get the UNICORN for Lolotte.

Once you're back in Tamir, return to the PIER, and swim@westward.  Watch
out for sharks and avoid the whale.  It's a good idea to save your  game
before crossing the ocean just in case you end up as dinner.  Swim  east
until you reach the  island home of Genesta.   You may wander about  and
become familiar  with the  island if  you like,  but the  only thing  of
importance here is the FEATHER on the beach.

Once you  have found  the feather,  prepare to  swim eastward (save your
game again).  This time you are  looking for that WHALE.  If you  cannot
find him easily,  restore your game  and swim east  again until you  do.
The whale will swallow you, which  normally would not be too great,  but
it does have its compensations.

 INSIDE THE WHALE

Look around.  Look at the mouth, or teeth, or something specific to  get
the description that mentions  the UVULA.  Now take  a good look at  the
tongue.  On the left  hand side of the  tongue you will find  a "row" of
black dots that gradually rise  toward the middle of the  tongue.  Climb
these  carefully  until  Rosella  stands   up  automatically.   Continue
climbing to the right and up until Rosella is directly under the  UVULA.
TICKLE UVULA with FEATHER.  This will cause the whale to laugh and  spit
you out.  You will find yourself  swimming in the ocean, with an  island
to the north.

Swim to the shipwreck island.  On the island there is the bow of a  ship
in which Rosella may stand.  Here she will be able to see (with the  use
of LOOK GROUND) what you cannot  see.  She will pick up a  GOLDEN BRIDLE
(just the thing for a unicorn).  FEED or THROW the FISH to the  PELICAN.
The  pelican  will  drop  a  WHISTLE.   BLOW the WHISTLE, and a friendly
dolphin will come by to give you a safe ride back to the Tamir mainland.

Search among the screens until you spot the unicorn.  Shoot the  unicorn
with one of the arrows.  This will make him your friend.  Put the bridle
on the unicorn,  and RIDE the  unicorn.  The program  will automatically
take you to the Goon Airways Airport and return you to Lolotte.   She'll
send you on a second quest: Find the goose that lays the golden eggs.

Visit your local  OGRE house.  If  you had tried  to get in  before, you
found that the door was always locked -- well, it isn't now!  Go in, and
throw the BONE (the one you got in the cave behind the waterfall) to the
vicious dog.  He  will be delighted  and leave you  alone.  Go upstairs,
and get the AXE.  Come downstairs, and enter the CLOSET.  Do NOT go into
the kitchen unless you wish  to be dinner.  LOOK THROUGH  KEYHOLE.  Keep
doing that until you see the Ogre fall asleep.  Exit the closet, get the
HEN, and move  quickly to the  door.  EXIT as  quickly as possible,  and
keep going until you are safely away from the ogre.

Take the hen to  Lolotte.  She still doesn't  trust you and gives  you a
last quest: Retrieve Pandora's Box.

 KING'S QUEST IV
      Part 4

Now that you have the AXE, go to one of the three "Scary Forest" screens
and chop down  a tree.  This  will get those  trees to behave  properly!
You may now  visit the one  screen in the  5 x 6  screen layout of Tamir
proper that you haven't been able to see until now.  Here you will  find
a SKULL CAVE.  Enter the cave.

Inside are three witches, each  with only one eye socket.   Between them
they have but one glass eye, which they pass amongst themselves.  One of
the witches  will move  out from  the wall  and attempt  -- slowly -- to
catch you.   Avoid her  and watch  the other  two carefully.  Notice how
they pass the eye back and forth  to one another?  As soon as you  think
you have the movement  and timing pretty well  figured out, move in  and
GET THE EYE.  This can be  tricky, so save your game before  you attempt
this.

Once you  have the  EYE, exit  the cave.   Now, re-enter  the cave.  The
witches, who are helpless without the eye, will toss you a SCARAB.   Get
the SCARAB (which  protects you from  the undead), and  throw back their
eye.

 INTERMISSION

Time to do something for yourself:  You remember why you're here in  the
first place?   You know...dying  father?  (Meaningful  pause....)  Good!
Well, let's do something about that, shall we?

Return to  the Waterfall,  become a  frog, and  go behind the waterfall.
Get the board if you haven't already, and get back to that CAVE.   LIGHT
the LANTERN, then save your game!  Enter the cave.  There is a troll  in
here who badly  wants you for  dinner.  We are  going to do  our best to
deny him such a delicious meal.

Move directly across the screen.   Before you move into the  next screen
(and ONLY if the troll has not appeared), save your game.  Move onto the
next screen.   Move almost  all the  way across,  and then  begin moving
down.  Still no troll?   Save!  If you _do_  see the troll, RESTORE  and
try again.  Continue moving down into the next screen.  Save as often as
necessary.

You will not be able  to see well, even with  the light of the lamp,  so
move carefully, saving when needed,  until you find where that  CHASM is
hiding.  PUT  BOARD OVER  CHASM!  Move  directly "right"  over the board
(you'll pick it up automatically).  Move  up one screen and exit to  the
swamp.

Notice in  the swamp  that there  are tufts  of reeds,  grass, whatever,
stretched out  before you,  rather like  skipping stones.   JUMP to move
from one to another.  Do not swim,  do not turn into a frog; just  JUMP.
Move onto the next screen, and you will see the tree with the FRUIT  you
seek for  your father!   JUMP until  you're on  the last  clump of grass
before the little isle.  PUT BOARD  OVER WATER.  You may now cross  onto
the island, but watch out for the COBRA!

PLAY FLUTE.  (Snakes just love flute music!)  Once the snake is charmed,
move in and GET FRUIT!

Having done that, return the way you came, jumping across the swamp  and
through the cave.  It will suddenly get very dark, because this sequence
triggers nightfall!

 KING'S QUEST IV
      Part 5

 INTERMISSION'S OVER -- BACK TO QUEST III!

Oh yes, Pandora's box.  Well, night  is a great time to visit  a haunted
mansion, so why don't you?  Get  the SHOVEL from the secret passage  off
the living room.  You will now  hear and/or see a number of  GHOSTS, one
at a time.  These ghosts' mortal remains are buried in one or the  other
of the graveyards.   Once you have  identified which ghost  it is (baby,
miser, lord, sad  woman, child, etc.)  go to the  appropriate grave, and
dig.  Don't worry about the  zombies; you've got the scarab,  which will
repel each zombie that touches you.

 GRAVE ROBBING AND OTHER HOBBIES

Digging in the right grave will  reveal something that the ghost of  the
moment wants.  Take  the item, and  give it to  the ghost.  Repeat  this
process.  The  small ghost  child will  lead you  up a  ladder into  the
attic.  Once he disappears (you'll  have to go to the  eastern graveyard
screen and  dig up  his toy),  you will  be able  to OPEN  and LOOK in a
CHEST.  There you will find SHEET MUSIC.

Go to the secret passage off of the living room and climb the stairs  to
the tower.  There you  will find an ORGAN.   Sit on the bench,  and PLAY
SHEET  MUSIC.   Having  done  that,  a  drawer will pop open revealing a
SKELETON KEY.

Go to the CRYPT and open it with the SKELETON KEY.  ENTER.  GET THE ROPE
and it'll fall down  to form a ladder.   Go down the ladder  (the scarab
will protect  you from  the mummy),  and take  PANDORA'S BOX.  Return to
Lolotte's!

 YOU'RE GETTING MARRIED IN THE MORNING

Lolotte is at last  satisfied that you are  not Genesta's spy.  She  has
agreed to  let you  marry her  son in  the morning.   All your items are
taken away,  and you  are led  to Edgar's  tower bedroom  for the night.
Edgar, who is nicer then he looks, shortly brings you a rose.  GET  ROSE
and LOOK ROSE.  This reveals that a  key is tied to the rose which  will
let you leave the tower.

Carefully climbing down  the tower's winding  stairs, you move  into the
dining room.  There are two exits at the right of the screen.  Take  the
one to the  rear into the  KITCHEN.  Look in  the cupboards to  find all
your items.  Now,  move back into  the dining room,  and take the  front
exit to the right.

This puts you in the throne  room.  Avoid stepping on the rug,  and take
the  exit  to  the  right.   Now  you  are in the east tower.  Climb the
stairs.  Ignore the exit to the left halfway up, and continue to the top
of the tower.  Here you find Lolotte's bedroom.  Unlock the door and  go
in.  Move close  to Lolotte and  SHOOT Lolotte, thus  using Cupid's last
remaining  arrow  to  a  useful  end.   Lolotte dies a spectacular death
(worth replaying at least once).   GET TALISMAN.  Climb down the  stairs
to the first exit on the left.  When the screen changes, you will see  a
hall and a door.  Open the door and enter the storage closet.  GET  HEN,
and GET PANDORA'S BOX, then exit.

Climb down the remaining stairs and leave the castle.  Enter the stables
and OPEN  GATE to  free the  UNICORN.  Once  you are  outside the castle
again, move down the path to return to Tamir proper.

 LET'S LEAVE EVERYTHING TIDY

Return to the CRYPT and drop  PANDORA'S BOX.  Exit the crypt, close  and
LOCK DOOR.  Move back  to the pier, and  swim west to Genesta's  island.
Enter  her  ivory  tower,  and  climb  the  stairs to her bedroom.  GIVE
TALISMAN TO GENESTA.   The program will  take over from  here, finishing
off the story nicely while you enjoy another cup of coffee!
 
 
 


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
