                  KING'S QUEST III HINT


To play King's Quest III effectively you have to have and 
know how to use every magic spells.  The only place you 
can make these magic spells is in the Wiward's laboratory.

To get to the Wizard's lab, go to his room and move a book 
on the shelf and then pull the lever behind the book.  
There will be a stair leading down to the lab, becareful!

You can not successfully compose the magic spells with the 
Wizard around the house.  Wait until he takes a nap or 
goes on a trip.  He is usually gone approximately twenty 
five minutes (on the IBM-PC clock speed).  This allow you  
just enough time to get the mirror, the rose essence, the 
tin cup in the house; go down to the country side to get 
the required ingredients; and come back to the Wizard's 
lab to make these seven spells.  Once finished making the 
spells, hide it under the bed; otherwise the Wizard will 
kill you when he finds you carrying these forbidden 
(starred) stuffs.

You can get rid of the Wizard forever by turning him into 
a black cat (a different one).  Break the "Cat Cookie" 
into little pieces and hide it in the porridge bowl.  
Given the Wizard the poisoned porridge when he asks for 
some thing to eat.  

To get the cat fur, kick the cat, take it in your hand and 
pluck its fur (you might have to try this several times to 
succeed).  To get the dog hair, pet the dog.  To get the 
chicken feather, cacth the chicken then pluck the feather. 

To get the eagle feather watch for the flying eagle across 
your screen while in the country side, the eagle sometimes 
will drops its tail feather once.

To kill the spider, transform into an eagle and watch what 
happen.  To kill Medusa the hag, use the mirror while 
hiding behind the big rock in the desert - show mirror to 
Medusa (You might have to try this several time).  The 
cactus is right beside the big rock.  To get mud, use the 
spoon you got from the kitchen.

If you get robbed by the bandits, don't worry because you 
can get it back.  Go to the large oak tree on the edge of 
the desert.  Reach inside the hole at the base of the tree 
for a lader.  Climb up to the bandits' shack and get the 
gold coins and your stuff back, but becareful!  Use these 
gold coins to buy the ingredients from the store and buy 
the ship passage from the captain in the tavern.  Don't 
forget to kiss the barmaid, she is a knock-out.

Once on the ship, go to the other room to find a small box 
(listen to what the mouse on the ship said).  Put the 
small box on top of the large crate and jump to lader.  
Before that, wait until you hear the sailors shout "Land 
ho..." then cast the sleeping spell on the other room 
floor.  Climb the ladder and go to the captain bin to get 
your possession back.  Jump off the ship to get ashore, 
watch for sharks!  To get pass the snow man use one of 
your magic tricks.  To kill the dragon, use your magic.

There are seven magic spells which you can cast on 
somebody else or use it on yourself.  Whichever spell you 
use, make sure you follow exactly the given directions; 
even a wrong step or a misspell immediately means death.  
So, pay close attention to these spells.


I. UNDERSTAND THE LANGUAGE OF CREATURES

    INGREDIENTS:

    - One small feather from a bird (chicken or eagle, but 
      save the eagle feather for a more usefull use)
    - One tuft of fur from any animal (dog or cat hair)
    - One dried reptile skin
    - One round teaspoon of powdered fish bone
    - One thimbleful of dew
    - One magic wand
    
    DIRECTIONS:
    
    1.  Put the small feather in a bowl
    2.  Put the fur in the bowl
    3.  Put the reptile skin in the bowl
    4.  Add a spoonful of powdered fish bone
    5.  Put a thimbleful of dew in the bowl
    6.  Mix with hands
    7.  Separate mixture into two pieces
    8.  Put dough pieces into your ears
    9.  (Recite the followings)
        Feather of fowl and bone of fish
        Molded together in this dish
        Give me wisdom to understand
        Creatures of air, sea and land
    10. Wave the magic wand


II. FLYING LIKE AN EAGLE OR A FLY

    INGREDIENTS:

    - One tail feather from any feather (to become an      
      eagle) or one pair of fly wings (to become a fly)
    - One pinch of saffron
    - Rose petal essence
    - One magic wand

    DIRECTIONS:

    1.  Put a pinch of saffron in essence
    2.  (Recite the followings)
        Oh winged spirits, set me free
        Of earthly bindings, just like thee
        in this essence, behold the might
        to grant the precious gift of flight
    3.  Wave the magic wand

    You now have a potion allows you to transform yourself 
into an eagle or a fly.  To cast the spell, at any time, 
dip the eagle feather or the fly wings in the essence; you 
will be transformed into an eagle or a fly.  To return to 
human form before the spell wear off, recite this verse:

    Eagle begone!
    myself, return!
    
    or

    Fly begone!
    myself, return!


III. TELEPORTATION AT RANDOM

    INGREDIENTS:

    One spoonful of salt grains
    One sprig of dried mistletoe
    One smooth rounded stone of unusual color
    One magic wand

    DIRECTIONS:

    1.  Grind a spoon of salt in a mortar
    2.  Grind the mistletoe in the mortar
    3.  Rub the stone in the mixture
    4.  Kiss the stone
    5.  (Recite the followings)
        With this kiss, I thee impart,
        Power most dear to my heart.
        Take me now from this place hither,
        To another place far thither.
    6.  Wave the magic wand

    To cast the spell, rub the stone.  It will immediately
take you away from where you are and put you to some 
random place in the map.

IV. CAUSING A DEEP SLEEP

    INGREDIENTS:

    - Three dried acorns
    - One cup nightshade juice
    - One magic wand
    - One empty pouch

    DIRECTIONS:

    1.  Grind the acorns in a mortar
    2.  Put the acorn powder in a bowl
    3.  Put the nightshade juice in the bowl
    4.  Stir the mixture with a spoon
    5.  Light a charcoal brazier
    6.  Heat the mixture on the brazier
    7.  Spread the mixture on a table
    8.  (Recite the followings)
        Acorn powder ground so fine
        Nightshade juice, like bitter wine,
        Silently in darkness you creep
        To bring a soporific sleep
    9.  Wave the magic wand
    10. Put the sleep powder in the pouch

    To cast the spell, pour the sleep powder on the ground 
(or floor) in a dank, dark place.  Then recite:

    Slumber, henceforth!


V. TRANSFORMING ANOTHER INTO A CAT

    INGREDIENTS:

    - One-half cup mandrake root powder
    - One small ball of cat hair
    - Two spoonfuls of fish oil
    - One magic wand

    DIRECTIONS:

    1.  Put mandrake root powder in a bowl
    2.  Put the cat hair in the bowl
    3.  Put two spoons of fish oil in bowl
    4.  Stir the mixture with a spoon
    5.  Put the dough on the table
    6.  Pat the dough into a cookie
    7.  (Recite the followings)
        Mandrake root and hair of cat
        Mix oil of fish and give a pat
        A feline from the one who eats
        This appetizing magic treat
    8.  Wave the magic wand

    You now have a cookie that, when eaten, will turn the 
victim into a black cat.


VI. BREWING A STORM

    INGREDIENTS:

    - One cup of ocean water
    - One spoonful of mud
    - One pinch of toadstool powder
    - One magic wand
    - One empty jar

    DIRECTIONS:

    1.  Put a cup of ocean water in bowl
    2.  Light a charcoal brazier
    3.  heat the bowl on the brazier
    4.  Put a spoon of mud in the bowl
    5.  Add a pinch of toadstool powder
    6.  Blow into the hot brew
    7.  (Recite the followings)
        Elements from the earth and sea,
        Combine to set the heavens free.
        When I stir this magic brew,
        Great god Thor, I call on you
    8.  Wave the magic wand
    9.  Pour the storm brew into the jar

    To cast the spell, stir the storm brew with your 
finger and recite:

    Brew of storms, Churn it up!

    To clear the storm, recite:

    Brew of storms, Clear it up!


VII. BECOMING INVISIBLE

    INGREDIENTS:

    - One jar of lard
    - One cactus
    - One spoonful of cactus juice
    - Two drops of toad spittle
    - One magic wand



    DIRECTIONS:

    1.  Cut the cactus with a knife
    2.  Squeeze the cactus juice on spoon
    3.  Put the cactus juice in a bowl
    4.  Put the lard in the bowl
    5.  Add two drops of toad spittle
    6.  Stir the mixture with a spoon
    7.  (Recite the followings)
        Cactus plant and horny toad
        I now start down a dangerous road
        Combine with fire and mist to make
        Me disappear without a trace
    8.  Wave the magic wand
    9.  Put ointment in the empty lard jar

    To cast the spell, rub the ointment on your body.  You 
will become invisible for a short while.  This only work 
in a place where both fire and mist exist.



OJECTS                  LOCATION
-------------------     ----------------------------------
Snakeskin               Desert ground
Thimble                 Bears' house
Dew                     Bears' garden
Porridge                Bears' house
fly wings               Wizard's tower
Rose petal essence      Wizard's bedroom
Salt                    Store
Mistletoe               Tree south of town
Amber stone             Oracle's cave
Acorns                  Under the large oak tree
Empty pouch             Store
Fish oil                Store
Ocean water             Ocean
Mud                     Stream
Lard                    Store
Knife                   Kitchen
Magic wand              Wizard's study cabinet
Brass key               Wizard's bedroom closet top
Bowl                    Kitchen
Spoon                   Kitchen
Tin cup                 Dining room
Mirror                  Wizard's bedroom
Coin purse              Bandits' shack
Bread                   Kitchen
Fruit                   Kitchen
Mutton                  Kitchen
Other ingredients       Wizard's lab
Shovel                  Ship
Treasure chest          Listen to the rats
Magic map               Wizard's bedroom closet


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
