
          Hints for..

          ---------------------------------
          King's Quest IV Perils of Rosella
          ---------------------------------


               Written by  Lord Zombie

The First thing you should do is read through the entire document
and look what you need help with... If you just got King's Quest
IV and the hint file then read this and do it in order.

     
You start out standing by the seashore.  From here walk into the
forest and find the dwarf's house, it is built under a tree.
Walk into the dwarf's house and type 'CLEAN HOUSE'. After
cleaning the house the dwarfs will pile in and eat dinner, after
you are seated in the chair eating with the dwarfs, type 'TALK TO
DWARF'. Keep doing to this until they don't talk back. After they
leave walk to the pouch and pick it up, walk south from the house
and into the mine, walk to the dwarf with the lamp and type 'GIVE
POUCH TO DWARF'. Now leave the mine and go to the fisherman. Wait
till he gets up and goes in to his house. Enter the house and
give the diamonds to the man.  Leave hear and go to the house,
the old mansion, walk in there, go west to the living room and
type 'GET BOOK'. Now type 'LOOK AT PICTURE' then 'LOOK AT WALL'
then 'PULL LATCH'. Walk through the secret door you opened and
get the shovel, don't worry about the stairs yet. Now go where
the bridge is, the one with the odd looking tree next to it.  Go
to the left side and type 'LOOK UNDER BRIDGE'.  You should pick
up a gold ball.  Now off to the swamp with the frog in it. Stand
behind the shrubs to the north of the swamp and type 'GIVE BALL
TO FROG'.  Walk over to the point where the frog is, then get the
frog and kiss it.  Now you have to find the worm, it is located
west of Lolotte's Castle. There should be a bird pecking at the
ground, just walk near it and it will fly away, then get the
worm, now would be a good time to talk to Lolotte.  To talk to
her just go all the way to the east side of the game, one screen
below the waterfall.  Just walk up the path. Now we are gonna go
north from where the goons dropped you off, you should be at the
waterfall. Just 'WEAR CROWN' near the waterfall and you will
appear behind it. Now walk up to the board and get it. Now be
REAL careful and walk into the cave. Don't take a step after you
are in just type 'GET BONE' then leave, to leave just swim out. 
Now go to the pool, the one with the pillars, and just keep
leaving and coming back until the cupid shows up, now all you
have to do is walk into the pool and the cupid will fly away,
then walk to the side of the pool and get his bow.  Now you are
off to find the unicorn, when you find him stop immediately and
'SHOOT UNICORN', this will make him like you.  Now we find the
minstrel, not Pan, the minstrel, he sits on a rock or stump, when
you do find him give him the book, he will give you his lute. 
Now find Pan, the dancing guy that plays the flute, when you find
him play the lute then give it to him, this will give you the
flute. Ok, now we go fishing, walk out to the pier and 'BAIT
POLE', now 'FISH' until you catch a fish. After you have caught
the fish then jump off the pier and swim westward until you hit
Genesta's Island. Walk around the island until you find a
peacock's feather. After you find this feather then walk back to
where you got on the island then go off the screen to the right,
from here go directly south, now east back to the pier, if you
don't get caught by the whale then go back west. You will get
caught by the whale soon enough. After being caught walk to the
left side of the tongue and walk up the tongue diagnolly, this is
very hard to do, so I suggest you save the game every half inch
or so. After you reach the top then walk up to the uvula, the big
bag like thing and 'TICKLE UVULA'. That should put you right out
near the island, swim north. After reaching the sand stop and
'THROW FISH TO PELICAN', then walk over and get the whistle. Now
walk into the bow of the ship on the right and 'LOOK ON GROUND'.
This will get you the bridle.  Blow the whistle and mount the
dolphin.  After you have reached the mainland find the unicorn
walk up to him and 'BRIDLE UNICORN'. Now mount the unicorn. You
should have talked to Lolotte again, and told to bring her the
magic hen. Walk to the ogre's house, the one with the thatched
roof. When you get there the ogre's wife will be there, just run
away and go back. Walk to the door and open it then 'GIVE BONE TO
DOG'.  Now we go up the stairs and get the axe. Ignore the door
in the bedroom. Go back downstairs and open the door there, you
should be in the closet. Wait for it to say that the ogre is
home, when it says this type 'LOOK THROUGH KEYHOLE. Ok, now out
the door and get the hen, this should not be a problem. Now out
the door and off the screen. From here go to the man eating
forest and 'USE AXE ON TREE', now you are free to roam around
through the trees.  Go bring the good old hen to Lolotte. Now we
set off for the fruit and Pandora's Box. Go behind the man eating
forest to the skull house, enter, and let the witch chase you
around until you are far away from her. The proceed right in
between the two stationary witches and 'GET EYE', now leave, go
back and 'THROW EYE TO WITCH', now get the scarab. Ok, go to the
cave behind the waterfall and enter the cave. Turn on your lamp,
then go south, if you are not eaten by the troll then  save, east
again, save, you should be at a point where there is a little
light in the corner. When you get here walk about two inches and
'PUT BOARD OVER CHASM', if it says you are not close enough then
take a step then try again until you are across. From here go
north then out the hole.  Walk to the nearest lilypad and 'JUMP'.
Keep jumping until you arrive on the last pad before the island.
'PLAY FLUTE' and 'PUT BOARD OVER SWAMP'. Now cross the board and
wait until the cobra wakes up then play the flute again, you are
now free to get the magic fruit, now return but don't forget the
board!! To leave the cave do the same thing with the chasm and
the troll.  It will be night when you return. Now you go to the
mansion and you will find a baby crying, actually you will here a
baby crying.  Go out into the graveyard and find the gravestone
with the description of the baby on it and dig, if you don't find
something like a rattle, restore becasue you can only dig five
times until the shovel breaks, and there is five different
ghosts.  Ok, this is a big pain now, you have to find the certain
object for the certain ghost, just read the gravestones and find
the descriptiom that best fits the ghost you are looking for.  I
can not help you on the whereabouts of the gravestones.  After
you have done this, you will have access to the trapdoor in the
bedroom ceiling.  After you give the toy to the little boy, open
the chest and get the sheet music.  Walk up the stairs in the
secret passage to the organ room and 'PLAY SHEET MUSIC'. This
will open up a drawer in the organ that contains the key to the
crypt.  Walk down to the crypt and unlock it. Enter and 'GET
ROPE'. Then 'CLIMB', don't worry about the mummy, he will run
away, just get the box and go to Lolotte.  Lolotte tells you that
you are to marry Edgar tomorrow. You are sent up to Edgars room
to sleep for the night.  Edgar will give you a rose and look at
the rose. Alas! it has a key, get the key and unlock your door. 
Proceed down the stairs carefully. There is no trick to avoiding
the guards, you just walk around them real carefully. After
reaching the bottom of the steps you walk right and hit the
dining room.  There are two exits here, take the one in the back
near the guard, be careful walking past the guard.  After you are
in the kitchen open the left cabinet and 'GET ALL'.  Ok, walk
out, and again be careful, then take the other right exit, walk
through to the right, then ALL THE WAY UP THE STAIRS. Do not stop
off at the side yet.  When you reach the top unlock the door with
the gold key and enter walk over and 'SHOOT LOLOTTE' and after
the big talk 'GET TALISMAN'. Now downstairs and off to the side
where you will find all the guards gathered. From there walk to
the north into the storage room and get the hen and Pandora's
box. Proceed to the entrance, the throne room.  After leaving the
castle enter the stable and walk in between the two stalls and
'OPEN STALL GATE'.  Now you are off to Genesta's Island. After
you are in her bedroom 'GIVE TALISMAN TO GENESTA'........


          You WIN!!!     



Typed by: Lord Zombie
Solved by: Lord Zombie


          Call ESP HeadQuarters
             (602) 942-2111
            Sysops: Mr. Peace
               Party Animal   
                   and
               Lord Zombie
CALL NOW!


























X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
