 1 Basement, Ground Floor
 2 First Floor, Green Tentacle
 3 GT's Story, Package,
    Chandelier, Demo
 4 Remover, Weight Training
 5 Keycard, Wires, Plant,
    Observatory, Safe
 6 Microwave, Contract, Radio,
    Plans, Door, Tentacle,
    Destruct Sequence, Meteor

 MANIAC MANSION
     Part 1

 Okay, you guys, like, it's time to rescue Dave's adorable cheerleader
girlfriend, Sandy, from the clutches of Dr. Fred! Sandy has been kidnapped by
Dr. Fred for her brain -- not her beauty! Dave needs an adventure party of two,
each with their own weaknesses and strengths. For this outing, we'll use Razor
and Bernard; however, the walkthru will cover solutions involving other
characters. Now, get going to MANIAC MANSION, you tuna heads!

 Dave leads the way. Move him west until he comes to the front door of the
mansion. Lousy architecture, isn't it? Tasteless, but sinister. He goes up the
front steps, where he can PICK UP MAT, then PICK UP KEY. Now switch to Razor and
Bernard and let them join Dave. Have Dave UNLOCK FRONT DOOR WITH KEY, GIVE KEY
TO RAZOR, and enter the Mansion. Take Bernard and Dave into the foyer. Note that
each room has about three views or angles; you may have to scroll in order to
see everything. You initiate scrolling by clicking the cursor on the bottom
corners of the screen.

 Hm, the door to the right of the center stairs has no knob! Dave has seen a lot
of "B" movies, so he goes to the gargoyle on the right and tries to PUSH
GARGOYLE. Creak! The door opens! Golly, gee, this ain't your average split
level. Switch to Bernard, and dare him to go first. Bernard bravely inches
through the door into the darkness beyond. Gee whillikers, this is the first of
many dark rooms. A light can be found in all but one. In order to turn it on,
click WHAT IS then move the cursor around the screen. Once you find the light,
enter the keyboard command TURN ON and press <Return>. The light goes on, and
Bernard finds himself in a basement with a furnace and nuclear reactor --
standard equipment for maniacs. He walks west to the fuse box, skirting the
puddle of radioactive slime (it's a red herring, anyway), in order to PICK UP
SMALL, SILVER KEY. Note the door to his left because it leads to a very
important region. Go back to Dave, who says, "That's nice, Bernard, I think I'll
go join Razor outside." Switch to Dave in order to get him outside the front
door.

 NOTE: You have to move the characters out of the halls at certain points
because Dr. Fred's toothsome wife, Nurse Edna, and their repulsive son, Weird
Ed, have a habit of roaming around in real time. Anyone they find, they throw in
the dungeon. Should this happen to one of your characters, two ways out are
available, one of which will be revealed shortly.

 Well, switch back to Bernard, who is on his own now, so OPEN DOOR to the east
and WALK TO DOOR to a living room with a large, crystal chandelier. OPEN OLD
FASHIONED RADIO, as Bernard is really into stuff like that. PICK UP RADIO TUBE;
spare parts might come in handy. OPEN CABINET DOOR and note the cassette player.
If you examine the chandelier carefully, you'll see a white key on the right
side. None of the characters will climb the couch; you'll have to get it down
some other way. Patience! Bernard continues east through the double doors, then
lights the Library. The circular staircase is interesting but a red herring, as
is Chuck the Plant. The phone is broken, and perhaps Bernard will find tools
later. He notices a loose panel just above the phone and can OPEN LOOSE PANEL
then PICK UP a blank CASSETTE TAPE. He returns to the foyer.

 Now is a good time to save your game. Depending on your timing, Edna might be
found snacking in the kitchen. If so, she'll throw Bernard in the dungeon.
Should that happen, he can get out by using the key from the chandelier;
however, he hasn't got it yet. The other solution requires that two characters
work together, so someone else will have to get caught at the first opportunity.
Under the left barred window in the dungeon is a loose brick. If one character
PUSHes LOOSE BRICK, the other can escape out the door to the east. It's not so
terrible getting caught, because you get some important information: 1) The
dungeon door is the same one by the fuse box, and 2) the outer door to the
"Sekrit" lab, where Sandy is being held, is in the dungeon, even though it's
heavily padlocked and secured with an electronic keypad. Do not leave anyone in
the dungeon with key objects. (I once left Dave there for the entire game, only
to let the others out. So much for his heroism!)

 Bernard opens the door next to the grandfather clock. He finds himself in a
modernized kitchen. PICK UP flashlight from the counter. What's that on the
wall? Ick! Dull knives and a chainsaw. The knives are stuck to the wall with a
suspicious, gummy substance. The chainsaw has no fuel -- at least not in this
game -- so forget it. Continue to walk Bernard east and hope that Edna is not
grazing. She's not there? Good! He can OPEN REFRIGERATOR and PICK UP CAN OF
PEPSI. There's a lot of other dubious stuff in here, which Bernard leaves
strictly alone. Moving east again, he enters yet another room and not a moment
too soon as, about now, Ed will come down to pick up the cheese for his hamster.
If Bernard is in the kitchen, it's the slammer again for him. Ed has no humor
about cheese.

 The banquet hall looks fit for Banquo's ghost, so he walks east again. Bernard
enters the pantry in order to PICK UP BOTTLE OF DEVELOPER. Oops, what a klutz!
The bottle topples, smashes on the floor, and the developer seeps through a
grate. Hm, wonder where it went? Oh, well, Bernard can PICK UP FRUIT DRINKS and
GLASS JAR. Then, he should UNLOCK DOOR WITH SILVER KEY and go out to the pool.
It, at least, looks well-maintained, though the water has a strange glow. USE
GLASS JAR WITH SWIMMING POOL. Never know when Bernard might need some water. A
nice radio floats in the pool, but he doesn't like the water -- none of the
characters do, including the surfer dude. Time for Bernard to OPEN GATE and go
east to the garage. The doors are firmly shut and very heavy. Wow, what a wimp!
He can't even budge them!

 MANIAC MANSION
     Part 2

 Fingering the little knobs Bernard laughingly calls his biceps, Bernard returns
to the foyer and heads up the center stairs. His footsteps sound unnaturally
loud, but no one stops him. At the head of the stairs is a door, which, in the
IBM version, is a steel security door with keypad. In other versions, where the
diskettes themselves are copy protected, he can go straight through. In any
case, he shouldn't go through now as he has stuff to do. Walk him west into the
artist's studio in order to PICK UP BOWL OF WAX FRUIT, PAINTBRUSH, and PAINT
REMOVER. Then, he goes east to the music room. That's a nice TV and even nicer
cassette recorder! The Victrola looks old, but serviceable.

 Now, he may return to the hallway and go through the center door either by
walking straight through or by using the sheet in the docs to USE KEYPAD. The
coded numbers can be located in those columns of the red and gray sheet. Once
through the door, Bernard finds himself in a blue hallway surrounded by tasteful
art. He opens the first door to the east, and turns on the light: It's a medical
examining room. Feeling nervous, Bernard OPENs DESK, and PICKs UP MANUSCRIPT,
which is the memoir of a meteor, ill-written though and not his sort of thing at
all. If Jill picks it up, she must deal with its ungrammatical structure; it is
her puzzle and vital to winning the game. Exactly how she deals with it will be
revealed later. For now, Bernard exits this room and enters the next door to the
east, where he finds a great game room with standalone video games. Too bad
there isn't any power, and, anyway, he has no change in his pocket. He spent all
his money on more memory for his computer last week. Sighing over what might
have been, he exits and goes up the stairs to the east.

 On the next floor, he walks west, and a Green Tentacle hops toward him. Bernard
screams hysterically and runs away! You see, Bernard has one little weakness:
He's terrified of giant, hopping tentacles. Fortunately, it doesn't come up very
often. So temporarily retire Bernard, preferably inside another room and switch
to Razor, who should stop off in the music room to watch TV. Great, an ad from
Three Guys Who Publish Anything. Maybe they'd accept a demo if she had one! If
she feels the urge, she can also play the baby grand. Razor is interchangeable
with Syd, who is also musically talented. Once she arrives at Bernard's
location, switch to him, and GIVE FRUIT DRINKS, WAX FRUIT, and CASSETTE TAPE TO
RAZOR.

 Razor continues up the stairs. That cute Tentacle is just hungry for its
favorite munchies. No, silly, not people, just GIVE WAX FRUIT TO TENTACLE. Then,
GIVE FRUIT DRINKS TO GREEN TENTACLE. He lets her past, where she continues up
the stairs. She passes a door that is the photo lab, only important to Michael.
What horrors await on the next floor?

 MANIAC MANSION
     Part 3

 Walk softly on the third floor because the family's bedrooms are here. If Razor
enters Edna's or Ed's, you know where they'll put her! However, she can OPEN the
very first DOOR, since it's just the radio room. Hm, looks more like Bernard's
kind of place. Rock stars are always hungry, so PICK UP DIME -- it's that little
speck on the floor -- then scroll the room, and go up the ladder. Razor is blown
away by the Green Tentacle's bedroom, where he'll tell you his secret sorrow:
He, too, is an aspiring rock star who can't get his band to gel. It seems they
keep disappearing into the basement, so GT is in a major depression. Razor
admires his mondo stereo, humongous speakers, and PICKs UP RECORD. Then, scroll
the room and she can PICK UP YELLOW KEY hanging on the wall near GT's corner of
gloom. Go back through the radio room, where she learns from the wanted poster
that a murderous purple meteor is on the loose. She puts two and two together,
and they add up to radioactive slime!

 About now the doorbell will ring. If you have any characters in the halls,
better get them out because Ed will go downstairs to pick up a package. He deals
with some strange mail order houses. Switch to Dave quickly and beat Ed to it;
go west to the mailbox, and PICK UP PACKAGE. Ed comes outside but doesn't bother
Dave. This is the last time one of the family goes roving. From now on, you can
solve the game without that kind of interference.

 Dave cannot help but OPEN PACKAGE. Some stamps fall off, though the package
doesn't yield. If you're playing with Michael, you will probably need to deliver
the package to Ed. In order to do so, a character can take it to his room or
ring the doorbell. At this point in the game, undeveloped film has appeared in
the bushes to the right of the front steps. Michael can develop it into commando
plans, which Ed will use to rescue the kids from the Meteor at the end of the
game. The package has another use: Until it is delivered, Ed can be extracted
from his room by ringing the doorbell. This allows another character to get in
there and search!

 Switch back to Razor and find Bernard, then GIVE YELLOW KEY TO BERNARD. A cut
scene pours on the pressure, as you see that Dr. Fred is about to connect Sandy
to the brain sucking machine -- if the Purple Tentacle (another one!) doesn't
mess with her first. Must be her fetching little halter top. Razor goes to the
music room. Have her USE RECORD WITH VICTROLA, then TURN ON VICTROLA. Some
high-pitched tentacle cries rend the air and shatter Nurse Edna's favorite
antique vase. That gives Razor an idea: TURN OFF VICTROLA, then USE CASSETTE
TAPE IN CASSETTE RECORDER. TURN ON RECORDER, then TURN ON VICTROLA. Now, she
should turn everything off and PICK UP CASSETTE TAPE.

 Razor must go downstairs to the living room and USE CASSETTE TAPE IN CASSETTE
PLAYER. When she TURNs ON CASSETTE PLAYER, the din shatters the windows, and,
just as she hoped, the chandelier as well! Now Razor can PICK UP OLD RUSTY KEY
from the broken glass. Now she has a key to the door between the dungeon and the
basement. If anyone gets caught, just send Razor down with the key! Razor must
now TURN OFF PLAYER and PICK UP TAPE. Then walk her back to the music room, and,
this time, Razor makes a recording of her tune on the piano. She collects the
tape and goes to the Green Tentacle's bedroom. When she USEs THE CASSETTE TAPE
IN the PLAYER, GT is so impressed that he recruits her for his band. The new
possibilities snap GT out of his depression. He gives her his treasured DEMO
TAPE. Too bad she doesn't have stamps and an envelope -- she could do GT a real
favor by sending the demo to the Three Guys. She goes to the hall and thinks it
over.

 MANIAC MANSION
     Part 4

 Switch to Bernard, who should go to the third floor. Then he can enter the
fourth door to the east, which has some very strange gimmicks in it. Don't miss
any of them! Bernard sees the answer to a prayer when he has the chance to USE
HUNK-O-MATIC (tm) twice!! That puny body just ripples with newfound strength.
Any of the characters can use it and perform the two tasks it makes possible.
Now scroll the room and walk Bernard through the door to the east. He finds
himself in a bathroom that shows what a lousy housekeeper Edna is: For one
thing, she left Dead Cousin Ted in the shower. Something is written behind him,
but the dummy, er, mummy won't move over. Make sure to have your character PICK
UP SPONGE to the left of the sink, especially if playing with Michael.

 Bernard goes back to the hallway and through the door at the east end of the
hall. It's a family room with portrait, typewriter, and Man-eating Plant, just
what every family has! An unsightly paint blotch is on the wall. Have Bernard
USE PAINT REMOVER WITH PAINT BLOTCH and a door appears. He OPENs it. Since it
looks dark and there's NO light, he decides to let it wait until later. Now send
Bernard outside the house (trudge, trudge, trudge), and on the way, switch to
Razor so that Bernard can get the YELLOW KEY and DIME.

 Outside Bernard should go to the left of the front steps, and OPEN BUSHES.
Inside he finds a grate, which, with his new muscles, he easily opens. He climbs
through the grate and follows the pipes to the east. Along the way, he sees the
puddle of developer. USE SPONGE WITH DEVELOPER, and, presto, he's got it! Only
Michael can use it, along with water from the pool, to develop the film in the
photo lab. If Michael then gives those to Ed, Ed will charge in to remove the
Meteor at the end of the game.

 Bernard comes to a water valve. "Hey, Dave," Bernard shouts, "I've found a way
to empty the pool. Get over there!" Guys with muscles give orders, so switch to
Dave and walk him to the pool ladder. Then, switch to Bernard and TURN ON VALVE.
Bernard now hears a terrible whooshing sound, so switch to Dave and move him
down the ladder into the empty pool. At this point, a cut scene will inform you
that Dr. Fred has been using the pool to chill out his nuclear reactor and now
fears a meltdown. He sends Purple Tentacle to check; if anyone is in the
basement, they will get thrown in the cell. Ignore this, and quickly have Dave
PICK UP RADIO and GLOWING KEY. If Dave pushes the tempting red button, he will
start a meltdown, so just move Dave back up the ladder. If he is still in the
pool when you switch to Bernard and TURN OFF VALVE, then Dave will drown. Sandy
would be most unhappy, so do all that and the water refills the pool instantly.
Bernard can now join Dave by the pool, where Dave gives him the YELLOW KEY, the
STAMPS, and the RADIO. Bernard has the know-how necessary to OPEN RADIO. Hurrah,
batteries for the flashlight. Right away, Bernard should take this opportunity
to USE BATTERIES WITH FLASHLIGHT. I'll bet Bernard can explore that dark room
now!

 Before he does, however, he walks over to the garage and easily opens the
garage door. Lo! and behold: It's Weird Ed's Edsel! What vintage wheels! What
fins! A little exploration reveals that Ed has been modifying it with a rocket
engine (left fin). Store away that little tidbit of information. The shelf on
the left contains a WATER FAUCET HANDLE which Bernard should PICK UP. The cement
slab is a red herring and useless. Now let Bernard OPEN TRUNK WITH YELLOW KEY,
and, finally, Bernard has TOOLS to PICK UP. With that in mind, he goes back to
the library to FIX PHONE WITH TOOLS. Switch to Dave and leave him in the library
contemplating calling a chat line. Now save your game again.

 MANIAC MANSION
     Part 5

 The next bit of timing can be tricky, as someone needs to search Weird Ed's
bedroom (the third door to the right on the upper floor). Take Bernard right up
to the door. Now you have a choice. Assuming you have NOT delivered the package,
you can have Dave ring the doorbell while Bernard nips in the room. Or, if you
prefer, Razor (remember her?) can go in the room, and, while Ed is throwing her
in the clink, Bernard can search. In any case, before this sequence, Razor must
GIVE DIME TO BERNARD. Once in the room, he should move quickly to PICK UP
HAMSTER, and PICK UP CARD KEY that is under it. Move briskly to the piggy bank,
then OPEN PIGGY BANK. As it cracks open, Bernard realizes he's applied too much
pressure. PICK UP DIME and get him out of there fast! He should enter the weight
room again or Ed might get him! Whew, hacking was never such sweaty work!

 Save your game at this point, because Bernard is about to enter the room to the
east of the family room. Before Bernard does this, position Razor (if she's down
there) or Dave at the fuse box and OPEN FUSE BOX. Now, Bernard should TURN ON
FLASHLIGHT, and go through the hatch door in the paint blotch. As he plays the
flashlight around the room, he sees broken wires on the back wall to the left.
No wonder the arcade games won't play. Switch to the character by the fuse box
and TURN OFF CIRCUIT BREAKER. This is tricky again, because Bernard must FIX
WIRES WITH TOOLS before Dr. Fred sends the Purple Tentacle to turn on the power
again. And, of course, the character who is in the basement may wind up in the
dungeon. If you have time, TURN ON CIRCUIT BREAKER, and get Razor or whoever out
of there!

 At some point after this, Dr. Fred will play the arcade games. Note that he is
playing Meteor Mess. Maybe one of your characters would like to play, too? Too
bad no one has a quarter; the games won't accept the dimes. Switch back to
Bernard, since he's so handy, and send him into the bathroom to FIX WATER FAUCET
WITH HANDLE. Turn the shower on and off. Eek! Dead Cousin Ted moves over to
reveal the following message: "For a good time, call Edna ____." The phone
number varies according to the combination of characters. For Razor and Bernard,
it is 5235. Let's play a trick on Edna, who has appeared most unsympathetic in
several cut scenes.

 Save your game because she may get Bernard -- she's skinny but fast! Position
Bernard just outside her door (the second door to the east or right on the upper
floor). Dave must USE PHONE, and click in the number Bernard saw in the
bathroom. Get Bernard into her door right after the phone rings. Seems Edna has
a little phone habit; so as she demonstrates how to make an obscene phone call,
Bernard can PICK UP SMALL KEY from Edna's nightstand, and go up the ladder in
the eastern corner of the room. If he has time (or doesn't mind getting caught),
he can check out what's over her bed!

 Once more Bernard is in the dark, so TURN ON LIGHT to look around Edna's attic.
OPEN PAINTING and note the wall safe. Underneath is scrawled a number too tiny
to read. Have Dave call Edna again, walk Bernard to the hall, and into the radio
room for a minute. Be sure to shut Edna's door, or she may nab him.

 The coast is clear, so send Bernard back to the family room and save your game.
Have Bernard USE JAR OF WATER WITH MANEATING PLANT and watch it grow. Then he
can USE CAN OF PEPSI WITH MANEATING PLANT and watch it burp. Disgusting. (NOTE:
In some versions, it appears to grow twice. Early Apple versions contained a bug
that sometimes required reverse syntax, i.e., USE MANEATING PLANT WITH JAR OF
WATER. Your saved game will allow you to experiment.) Walk Bernard straight
toward the plant. It's satisfied, so it won't bite him and he climbs up to the
hatch above its head, and winds up in the observatory with an immense telescope.
Save your game here, too.

 Bernard is curious about the equipment, so he decides to USE DIME IN COIN SLOT,
then PUSH RIGHT BUTTON. He should repeat this with the second dime. Then he can
USE TELESCOPE and see the combination to Edna's safe, which, again is variable
according to which characters are being used. For Bernard and Razor, it is 1230.

 Save your game again, or you could be sorry! Bernard sneaks back to Edna's
door. Dave calls her on the phone, while Bernard whips up to the attic. He
should USE WALL SAFE and PICK UP SEALED ENVELOPE. Do NOT open it, because it'll
tear and cannot be repaired. Repeat the process you used before to get back to
the hall, saving your game beforehand. Bernard is doing well; so send him out to
the pool to fill up that jar again. Also, get the other two characters back to
the foyer for convenience's sake. Around this time, Dr. Fred says he is going to
shut off the power for five minutes. If you haven't repaired the arcade wires,
or you found it too troublesome, Bernard can easily make the repairs by himself
once the power is off. Wait for the rooms to go dark.

 MANIAC MANSION
     Part 6

 If you have time, move Bernard to the kitchen. OPEN MICROWAVE OVEN. USE
ENVELOPE WITH MICROWAVE OVEN. USE JAR OF WATER WITH MICROWAVE OVEN. CLOSE
MICROWAVE OVEN and TURN ON MICROWAVE OVEN. After a suitable interlude, TURN OFF
MICROWAVE OVEN. Now be patient, for if he opens it too soon, a cloud of
microwave steam will envelop him and his tombstone will be a small, tasteful one
out on the front lawn. Bernard's part is almost done, so he can GIVE CARD KEY
and SMALL KEY TO DAVE and GIVE STAMPS TO RAZOR. Then, send him up to the radio
room, where he can READ WANTED POSTER. It includes a number for the Meteor
Police (in this game, 3412). First Bernard must fix the radio, so USE RADIO TUBE
IN TUBE SOCKET. (Aren't you glad he carried it around for practically the whole
game?)

 Switch to Razor and OPEN MICROWAVE OVEN. Now she can PICK UP ENVELOPE and USE
STAMPS ON ENVELOPE. The envelope now opens without tearing and a quarter falls
out. She has other things on her mind than video games, so she can GIVE QUARTER
TO DAVE. Now, she goes up to the family room and USEs ENVELOPE WITH TYPEWRITER.
If the character has seen TV, she/he types the address of Three Guys Who Publish
Anything. Will she promote herself? She will NOT! She must be magnanimous and
USE DEMO TAPE WITH ENVELOPE, go outside to the mailbox west of the house, and
OPEN MAILBOX. Then she can USE TAPE IN MAILBOX and PULL FLAG. Now she can go
back to the front door and wait.

 It's now Dave's turn, and is he ever burning for action! Does he go get Sandy?
No way! He heads straight to the arcade room and stands in front of Meteor Mess.
USE QUARTER IN SLOT. If Dr. Fred has played, it is important to record his high
score: At long last he has the combination to the inner door of the Sekrit Lab,
which, in this game, is 5858. If Dr. Fred has not played, Dave must wait until
he sees him do so. No problem, though; he can USE SMALL KEY WITH COIN BOX and
PICK UP QUARTER. Play as many times as he wants or needs to!

 At some point, you will see the Three Guys discover the Green Tentacle's genius
and send him a recording contract. When the doorbell rings, Razor can PICK UP
CONTRACT, and either give it to Dave or deliver it herself. Whichever character
delivers it, the Green Tentacle vows to always protect that person later on.
This promise will not hold for the other characters. This contract is a major
point of variation among scenarios tied to the character combinations. Syd can
follow the same route as Razor. Jill must USE MANUSCRIPT IN TYPEWRITER. However,
this scenario has a different outcome. The contract is prepared for the Meteor.
If it is delivered to the Green Tentacle, he kills her for being on the Meteor's
side. However, the contract can be used in just a minute! So be patient, you're
almost done!

 While Razor is waiting for the postman, it is a good idea for Bernard to TURN
ON RADIO, and USE RADIO to call the Meteor Police. They declare they will arrive
in five minutes and that the inner lab door must be unlocked. It is also useful
for Razor to GIVE RUSTY KEY TO DAVE. Have Razor PUSH GARGOYLE so that Dave can
go down to the basement and UNLOCK DUNGEON DOOR WITH RUSTY KEY. Once inside the
dungeon, he can UNLOCK UPPER PADLOCK WITH GLOWING KEY, and repeat that process
with the LOWER one. If playing with Michael, the film should be developed and
delivered to Weird Ed. If you have Bernard in the party, the police -- and they
are a strange bunch -- arrive and bear off the nefarious Meteor. If you have
Michael, Ed goes and gets him. However, if you have neither character, Dave can
take care of the Meteor, provided he has the YELLOW KEY before going into the
Sekrit lab.

 So, gather your courage for the closing scenario and let one character open the
inner door with the combination Dave got from Meteor Mess. If the police have
been there, check out the dungeon floor carefully, and let Dave PICK UP BADGE.
It's a bona fide piece of ID for the Meteor Police. Now he can go through that
door and meet his fate...and the sinister Dr. Fred! First, however, he must get
past the Purple Tentacle. If Dave is the character who helped GT, then he will
appear and tell PT to bug off. If Dave has the badge, then merely GIVE it to PT
and watch him turn into a quivering mass of tentacle flesh. If you are using
Jill, she can show him the contract for the Meteor, and PT will let her through
to talk to the big guy himself.

 This taken care of, go through the door to the east, where Dave sees the
nefarious Brain Sucking Machine, complete with Sandy in chains. Dr. Fred, who is
nearby, goes berserk and starts a countdown to nuclear destruction. Ignore
Sandy, go right to the locker, OPEN it, and USE RADIATION SUIT. USE CARD KEY in
the slot of the automatic door to the east. Once in the Meteor room, Dave must
PULL SWITCH, which detaches Dr. Fred from the evil influence. He halts the
countdown, and you win the game and Sandy, provided the Meteor is gone.
Otherwise, Dr. Fred appeals to Dave for help. Stifling his revulsion, Dave must
PICK UP PURPLE METEOR and open the door to the east of the Meteor Room.

 Dave's back in the garage, where he stuffs the Meteor in the trunk of the
Edsel, and can CLOSE TRUNK, then USE YELLOW KEY IN ROCKET ENGINE. This blasts
the Meteor into outer space and, maybe, a sequel. You've saved our brain trust,
until the aliens get their hands on the phone company in ZAK MCKRACKEN AND THE
ALIEN MINDBENDERS, anyway!


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
