	HYBRID PRESENTS THE MANIAC MANSION 2 HINT FILE!
        -----------------------------------------------

	Ehrm guys, to be really honest with you I think
	that the only way to be sure about MM2 is to use
	the manual protection textfile we put out yester-
	day, coz all the cracks seems to fuck up somehow!

-Hoson 93.06.12
---------------------------------------------------------


        Here's the hints guys! All summarized up!

As Bernard when starting-
1)So where is the secret lab?
        Open the grandfather clock.

2)Where are the battery plans?
        On the bulletin board in the lab between the generator and the
        Sludge-o-Matic machine.
AS HOAGIE-
1)So how am I supposed to save the world?
        Find Red Edison, get the battery built, get the battery charged,
        plug in the Chron-o-John.

2)How do I find Red Edison?
        Enter the grandfather clock in the foyer and enter the secret
        passage.

3)Who's the guy in the field?
        That's Ben Franklin-knows a lot about electricity-check back with
        him after you get the battery built.

4)What about the mummy?
        That's Dead Cousin Ted-talking to his silent, bandage-wrapped bod
        often helps Hoagie organize his thoughts.

5)I can't get Red to build the battery.
        He needs oil, vinegar, and gold; you'll have to provide the 
        ingredients.

6)How can I get the gold?
        You could try to take the pen on the table, but they would catch
        you, You'll need to get rid of them, there is a smoke alarm on the
        mantle, they seem very concerned about fire.
        To start a fire, you'll need Jefferson's log.

7)Jefferson won't fork over the log.
        He sure does admire Washington!
        If he thought Washington was cold maybe?

8)What would make Washington look cold?
        Make his teeth shake so he thought he was cold.
        Replace his current false teeth with the chattering teeth
        found in the convention hall in Bernard's timeframe.

9)How do I get the chattering teeth?
        Open the floor grate by the fireplace, then chase the teeth into the 
        grate, and pick them up from there.

10)Washington won't take the teeth.
        You'll need a cigar to remove those teeth.  You have to find a way
        to get one from the novelty salesman in the convention hall in
        Bernard's time.

11)How do I get the cigar from the salesman?
        Sabotage the lighter so he can't use it! You need to switch the flag
        gun from Dwayne's room for the lighter gun in the convention hall.
        Dwayne's chair (on the door) is in the way; you need to get Dwayne
        to leave, so Bernard can grab the gun.

12)How can I get Dwayne to leave?
        He is very depressed-he could use some good news.  If only someone
        admired one of his ideas....Have Hoagie get the letter from the 
        mailbox and give it to Bernard to give to Dwayne.

13)O.K., I've built a fire, but I still can't get the pen.
        You need to block the chimney, but you need something that can be
        stuffed into the chimney to keep the smoke in.  Use Handcock's
        blanket-go up on the roof (through the attic) to do it.

14)Where can I find the oil?
        Check the kitchen for the oil.

15)How do I get vinegar?
        Start with the bottle of wine in Franklin's room.
        Wine turns into vinegar if not properly stored.
        Time is the key factor-give it to Jefferson for his time capsule.

16)How do I open the time capsule?
        Laverne has to open it in the future after the tentacles dig it up,
        now if only Laverne had some way to open a metal canister.  Have 
        Hoagie give Laverne the can opener.  Then she can use it in the
        Colonial Room to open the time capsule and give Hoagie the vinegar.

17)How do I get Laverne out of the tree and upstairs?
        See Laverne's section in this Hint Book.

18)O.K., I've given the battery ingredients to Red, and i've got the battery,
but it still won't work.
        Try looking at the battery. You need to get it electriclly charged-
        try Franklin's kite.

19)Ben says it's too sunny for his experiment.  How can I make it rain?
        Wash the carriage with brush, soap and water.

20)I've found the water.  Where's the brush and soap?
        The brush is in the cabinet in the washroom where you found the 
        bucket.  The soap is on the maid's cart.

21)I still haven't found where the soap is.
        You'll need to do something in Washingtons room to make it messy..
        Use the bed, pull the sash, then run out in the hall and pick up the 
        soap off the cart.

22)How can I get Ben to fly the kite again?
        He still needs waterproof kite material.  The lab coat in Red's 
        workshop is waterproof.  Give him the lab coat from the lab 
        downstairs, then use the battery with the kite when Ben gives it to
        you.  Push the kilte when Ben says "Now". Then pick up the battery
        and plug in the Chron-o-John.

23)How can I get the lab coat?
        Red might give it to you if you were trusted.. Hire on his assistant
        by giving him the Help Wanted sign.

AS BERNARD-

1)When can I get a diamond for the time machine?
        You need money. If Dr.Fred were to sign the contract in the safe in 
        his office...

2)How do I get Dr.Fred to open the safe?
        Talk to Edna about the way to his heart..
        Put him to sleep by using the Decaf coffee from the kitchen in his
        mug.

3)I still can't get the safe combination.
        He keeps his combination in his head.  You need someplace to observe
        Fred carefully.  Watch Dr.Fred on TV in Edna's room

4)How do I get past this Edna person?
        Don't you wish you could push her out of the way? The problem is 
        that sword on the statue.  If only the statue were right-handed...

5)How can I get rid of the statue?
        Have Hoagie get the left-handed hammer from Red's workshop, and
        switch it for the right-handed one in Jed & Ned's room, then push
        Edna.

6)Dr.Fred spins the dial too fast.  How can I slow him down?
        Maybe you could slow the TV image down... Get the video tape from
        Green Tentacle's room.

7)Fred is still to fast for me.
        Try instant replay.. Use the tape with the VCR, then press the red
        record button.  Rewind the tape, then change the right hand switch to 
        EP. Now play the tape again.  Bernard now knows the combonation and
        can open the safe.

8)How do I get the contract signed? Dr.Fred has disappeared.
        He hasn't disappeared; he's up in the attic tied to a bed.

9)The IRS won't let me see Dr.Fred.
        Sneak up the chimney.

10)Dr.Fred can't sign the contract. He's all tied up.
        Pick up the rope.

11)How do I remove red tape?
        If only someone would take his place.. Maybe you could get another
        family member to help here..

12)How do I move Ted?
        Use the rope with the pulley. Tie the rope to Ted.  Pull the rope 
        while standing on the roof.

13)The IRS dosen't seem to be fooled.
        Color him red.. Get the red paint from the attic.

14)How do I get Fred out of the attic?
        Try the same way you got Ted in. Tie the rope to Fred, then go out on
        the roof and pull it.

15)Now that i've freed Fred, how do I wake him up?
        You need the regular coffee from the kitchen.

16)Fred dosen't seem thirsty.
        Use the funnel from the cabinet in the washroom with Dr. Fred, then
        use coffee with the funnel.

17)Fred won't sign the contract.
        Tell him you'll stop the tentacles by yourself.

18)Wait a minute; this contract's outdated.
        Just like he should have shut off the sludge machine earlier.  This
        isin't a problem when you've got a time machine. Let Hoagie mail it.

19)Where can I get a stamp?
        Weird Ed's got some and as long as their useful he'll keep them.  
        Get the disappearing ink from Dwayne's room and use it with the stamp
        album.

20)O.K., Dr. Fred has money, but he won't order the diamond.
        Get Dr.Freds bankbook from the office, then make sure to watch TV
        before you call the Shopping Network.
AS LAVERNE-

1)How do I get Laverne out of the tree?
        That tree has got to go.

2)What could hurt a kumquat tree?
        Get Hoagie to talk to George Washington about chopping down the tree!

3)This isin't the right kind of tree for George.
        Paint the tree red with the paint from the attic, then challenge
        George's tree-chopping ability while he's in the convention hall.
        (Dialouge path 1,1,2,2, if you haven't alked to him before, otherwise
        2,2)

4)Now Laveren is imprisoned.  How can I get her out?
        Have Laverne talk to the guard and say she's sick or ask to go to the
        bathroom.

5)O.K., how can I get Laverne out of jail FOR GOOD?
        You need to make a tentacle costume with the tentacle chart from the
        tentacle doctor's office, those would make a good patern for a 
        costume.

6)Who would make a disquise?
        Try leaving the tentacle pattern with Betsy ROss.

7)Laverne can't get to the Chron-o-John.
        You'll have to get Laverne captured again, then tell the guard you 
        have to go to the bathroom and head for the yard.

8)How can I get to the roof?
        Use the fireplace!

9)How can I reach the disquise?
        Get the crank from Bernard and use it with the crank box, then turn
        the crank.

10)How can I get the guard to let me open the clock?
        Get rid of him. What is the thing he loves to do? Chase down and
        catch escaping humans. So get some to escape.

11)None of the humans in the front hall want to go anywhere.
        Get rid of the Kennel Guard. If you won the contest, you could use
        the dinner certificate.

12)How do I win the contest? I don't have a human.
        Ted, the mummy, sort of looks like a human.

13)Ted won't leave the room.
        Use the skates. Then push.

14)When does the contest start?
        You need to register Ted first.  Get a tag from the blue tentacle
        by the fireplace in the regisration room.

15)When does the judging start?
        Talk to the judges to get them to attend to business.

16)How can Laverne win?
        Get rid of Harold.

17)Harold won't leave.
        He might if he were sick or looked sick.  What about the fake barf
        in Bernard's time? You need to get it off the ceiling. Turn on the 
        stereo and push over the speaker in the middle of the tentacles'
        room, then get the barf and have Laverne use it with Ted.

18)I got rid of Harold, but I still don't think Laverne will win.
        Ted lacks a certain lifelike quality.  He needs a better laugh,
        a better smile, and better hair.

19)How can I get a better laugh?
        Get Oozo's laugh box from the clown in the convention hall in 
        Bernard's time.

20)That clown drives me crazy.
        Use the scapel to do him in.

21)How can Ted get a better smile?
        Who has nice teeth? The talking horse in Hoagie's time has a really
        good smile.

22)Smiles aren't easy to steal.
        They are dentures. Put the horse to sleep.

23)What could relax a horse?
        Bernard's textbook could put anyone to sleep.

24)How can I cure Ted's scalp problem?
        Have you flushed the spaghetti?

25)Ted's "hair" just isin't good enough.
        Use the fork from the kitchen in Bernard's time with the spaghetti
        on Ted's head...

26)Even with the kennel guard gone, those darn humans still won't leave.
        You'll have to scare them.

27)What could possibly scare a human?
        A wild animal? a SKUNK?

28)Where could I find one of those human-scaring critters?
        The black cat outside? Paint the fence white so when he rubs his back
        he will get a white stripe.

29)How could I improve the appearence of the fence?
        There is no white paint in the whole game.  So use the Booboo-b-gone
        from Fred's office on the fence.

30)I still can't pick up the cat.
        Cat food could be a good thing to use to lure him down.  Use the toy
        mouse from the attic in the past.

31)That cat in the past is very selfish.
        What if there was something to distract him like a mouse? Something
        like a squeaky mattress?

32)The cat's too fast for Hoagy.
        Use the squeaky mattress with the other bed.

33)I made it to the basement, but there's no way to use the generator.
        You'll need a hamster from Ed's room in Bernard's time to power it.

34)Ed threw me out of his room, and I can't get back in.
        Give Ed the stamp album.

35)The only hamster is in the present, and I can't flush it.
        How can I preserve the hamster? Put him on ice-Put the hamster in 
        the ice machine.

36)What good is a cold critter?
        Thaw the hamster out in the microwave.

37)A chilly and wet hamster isin't very useful either.
        Maybe a sweater would warm it up.  The sweater's stuck under the guy 
        in the bedroon in Bernard's time.

38)How do I wake up the guy in pajamas?
        The Fickle Finger machine might move him-if you had enough dimes.

39)How do I get the dime out of the gum?
        Use the crowbar.

40)The guy in the ski mask won't give me the crowbar.
        He needs some other way to get in the car.  Give him the keys you
        can get by closing the door inside the honeymoon suite.

41)The sweater won't flush.
        2 problems - it's too big and it's too wet.  A dryer might solve both
        but it needs quarters.

42)Where can I get quarters?
        Use the crowbar with the candy machine.

43)Bernard can't get the sweater out of the dryer.
        Laverne can get it out...

44)I forgot why I needed the sweater.
        To warm the hamster so it can run the generator.

45)I've lost my hamster.
        He's in the mousehole.  What you need is a vaccum-cleaner.

46)Where could I find a vaccum cleaner?
        Have Hoagie use the vaccum cleaner flier from the lobby with the
        suggestion box.

47)Help! The hamster's stuck in the vaccum cleaner.
        Open the hatch and get it out!

48)How do I disable the booby trap?
        You already have - it's a one-hit wonder.

49)The generator's running, but I can't connect it to the Chron-o-John.
        Use the extension cord from the seventies exhibit through the 
        basement window to connect the Chron-o-John to the generator.

AS HOAGIE, LAVERNE, AND BERNARD TOGETHER

1)I'm too small to do anything and somebody stole my inventory.
        Everything you need is in the mansion, and being small wears off.

2)How can I get to the switch? There's 10 tentacles guarding it.
        Get the bowling ball from green Tentacle's room.

3)Old Purple Tentacle zaps me before I can do anything.
        Maybe there's a secret passageway you haven't noticed yet all through
        the game.  Get Dwayne's door open when large, get Old Purple to zap
        you, run through the mousehold when small, wait there until you grow, 
        and pick up the bowling ball when large.

4)Now Old Purple Tentacle won't let me throw the switch.
        If only you could shoot HIM with the ray gun.  There IS a mirrow in
        the room.  Talk to Old Pur into shooting Dr.Fred (Dialouge path
        1,4,1,3)

                Was this a bitch to type? YES! Enjoy it!

        -DeaD GooN of Hybrid
