Solution for
MURDER ON THE MISSISSIPPI

Solved by Oistein Ihle, sent by Mr 2703, typed by Martin Brunner
Originally found at http://solutions.c64.org/

The first task involves identification of the body at Nr 4. To do this,
go into cabin 4, then up to the captain and ask him to follow you. Take
him into cabin 4, and after he has told you what he  knows, go out of
the cabin, still with the captain following you. Try to open a cabin
you know is closed (nr1 for example). This action gets the captain to
say "I'll ask Henry to open the door for you" or something like that.
After the captain has said this, Henry will when he is following you.
All closed cabins can be opened in this fashion. This rigmarole is necessary
to open the doors (and getting the clues) to cabins 1 and 16.

To use the list, just go into the room listed and inspect, but before
you inspect always ask the passenger about the victim. This makes them
aware of the situation (you wouldn't be able to inspect the cabin if
you didn't). For example, go to cabin 20, ask Twylla about the victim,
then inspect her cabin. You will find a rosewood box.

Right, here's a list of where clues are to be found:

Rosewood Box: Cabin 20
Colt Pistol: Cabin 15
Cleaning Cotton: Cabin 27
Key to Box: Cabin 1 (left near the pillow of the bed)
Bullet: Cabin 16
To get cabin 1 and 16 open ask Henry to follow
you, then try to open the cabin. Henry will open it for you.

In room 16 a knife comes against you when you open the door. To avoid
it, pull the joystick backwards as you enter. This should help, but
save the game before entering rooms 1 or 16, just in case. In these
rooms the roof may fall down, although it becomes apparent if this is
going to happen when you open the door. If you see something dropping
from the top edge of the door, when entering it pull joystick backward
to go out of door, then try again. If you do not, you die and are forced
to start it all over again! The floor is occasionally weak in cabin
1, so to avoid falling through the floor. Go near the wall until you
are in front of the bed. Now inspect the picture, where the key is hidden.

Drop as many clues as you can in the steamer trunk, Regis' pockets only
take between six and eight clues.

Go to cabin 3, inspect and put key and box on table. It opens, so examine
box, and examine it again (it has a false bottom). In the box there's
a Derringer and a newspaper clipping. Stand outside on the deck between
cabins 4 and 6, inspect and you see something that you can't reach dangling
in the railing. After you have done this, you must go down to the engine
room where Regis sees a gaff.

Getting the gaff is a little tricky, and involves inspecting twice in
the engine room. First Henry allows you to search his cabin. Inspect
for the second time, and Regis sees the gaff, and is able to take it.

After getting the gaff, inspect between cabins 4 and 6 again. This time
you're able to reach the dangling thing, which turns out to be a weapon
stock with chain.

Now the going begins to get tricky. Get all the new and old clues and
go to cabin 3. Inspect, then examine the table: the colt and bullet,
the Derringer and bullet and finally the Derringer and weapon stock.

Now the obvious clues have been solved, but more are needed. Go to Godwin
(cabin 12) and ask about Henry. No notes needed are needed here. Go
to Mdm Des Plaines (cabin 23) and ask about Captain Overbight. Note
this down "I gave him my jewels to keep in save".

After you've done that, ask about Henry, (take no notes) and go up to
Captain Overbight and share the "jewels" note with him.

He opens the safe. Inspect the safe and take the ticket. Go to Mr Humphrey
(cabin 15) and ask him about Mdm Les Plains and Henry. No notes are
needed, so don't take 'em.

Go to the Judge (cabin 9) and ask about Henry. Note this down "He wouldn't
tell me where next stop was". Go to Ms Smallworth and ask her about
Henry. No notes are needed. Share this note with Henry, (Engine Room).
He will answer (and please note this down) "He kept on asking me about
the stops". Ask Henry about Ms Smallworth. No notes are needed. Share
this note with the Captain (at the Wheelhouse). He answers (and note
this down) "Pree said she wanted to mail a letter". Share this note
with Daisy Du Pree (cabin 8). She tells you that the letter is in the
dresser. Inspect the dresser, get the letter and go to cabin 3 to inspect
and examine it, and out comes a mining certificate.

Go to Mr Humphrey (cabin 15) and ask him about Mdm Les Plains. Note
this down: "I'm fond of her unusual perfume". Share this note with Mdm
Les Plains (cabin 23) and she answers (and not this down) "He liked
that cologne Twylla loaned me". Share this not with Ms Smallworth (cabin
20). She answers, "I returned cologne to Daisy Du Pree". Note this down
and ask Ms Smallworth about Henry. No notes are needed. Share this note
with Daisy Du Pree (cabin 8) and she tells you that she has put the
cologne in her dresser. Inspect her dresser, and get the bottle of cologne.

Now go to cabin 3, inspect and then examine the cologne and cotton.

Go down to Henry and ask him about Ms Smallworth. The go to Ms Smallworth
again and ask her about Henry. If you now go to Henry and ask him about
Ms Smallworth again, he calls her Ms Gold... So a connection between
Mr Golden (see Newspaper Clipping) who committed suicide and Ms Smallworth,
who perhaps is his daughter becomes apparent? No notes are needed here.
Accuse Ms Smallworth (cabin 20) and take her to the saloon (cabin 24) and
the complete explanation is displayed, for your delectation.
