

Welcome  to  POLICE  QUEST II.  Things haven't changed much  since  our  last 
adventure.  Other  than  your having been promoted to Detective  in  Homicide 
division,  and Lytton Police Station undergoing extensive remodeling, all has 
been quiet. Oh yes, one major change: You no longer have to maneuver your car 
through  the  streets of Lytton;  that nightmare has been removed  in  POLICE 
QUEST II.


     LYTTON POLICE STATION AND LOCKER

Get into your car,  open the glove compartment,  take the business card,  and 
read both sides.  Hm, I wonder what that number could be? TAKE THE KEYS. Now, 
go into the Police Station.

Enter  your  office (that's the door on the upper left).  Read  the  bulletin 
board on the rear wall. Well, you are going to have to improve your shooting. 
Walk over to your desk in the middle of the room.  Sit down. Open the drawer. 
Take and read the letter.  Take your wallet.  Now to get your gear. Leave the 
room,  and  go  into the door on the back wall (to the left of  the  evidence 
window).  Your  locker is the first one on the left wall.  Open  the  locker. 
What?  You don't know the combination?  What do you think that number on  the 
back of the business card was? Open your locker. Wow! Look at that picture of 
Marie: What a girl! Get your gun, ammo, and handcuffs. Close the locker.

     ADJUSTING YOUR GUN

Now,  to  improve your shooting.  Go right.  Get ear protection from the  guy 
standing outside the booth,  then go in.  (On the IBM keyboard, F6 loads your 
gun,  F8  draws  gun,  and F10 fires gun -- this may be  different  on  other 
keyboards. Read the card enclosed with the game.)

Aim  at the target and fire three shots.  Now press the  view  button.  Those 
bullets were well off the mark.  You're going to have to adjust your  sights. 
Type ADJUST SIGHTS.  Use the cursor keys to move the screws in the  direction 
you need.  Move it a few turns, that hit enter. That target is full of holes, 
so CHANGE TARGET.  Press the back button.  Now practice shooting  again.  You 
might  have to repeat this step a few times to perfect it.  You'll  know  you 
have it right when you get points for firing at the center of the target.  If 
you run out of ammo, get more from the man outside.

     COMPUTER PASSWORDS AND BAINS MUGSHOT

Go back to your office. Jessie Bains, the "Death Angel" (whom you risked your 
life to capture),  has escaped!  Your job:  Find him!  Look at the  Captain's 
table, and read the papers. Remember those passwords; you'll need them later. 
Go to the filing cabinet on the right.  Get the file on Bains,  and take  the 
mugshot.  You could do with a better one than that though;  that one is  left 
over from POLICE QUEST I! You'd better go to the Jail to gather information.

Take the keys from the rear wall.  On your way out,  pick up your field  kit. 
Where is it?  In the storage bin of course!  Where is that?  Oh,  it's on the 
wall  on the right,  opposite the evidence window,  where it can't  be  seen! 
Obvious,  isn't it?  In your car, RADIO DISPATCH. They like to know where you 
are (even detectives aren't trusted!).

     ADDITIONAL POINTS

ADJUSTING YOUR GUN:  Make certain you use up all of your ammo on the shooting 
range. This will allow you to "REQUEST AMMO" for 2 points. Also, don't forget 
to "RETURN THE EAR PROTECTORS."





OTHER THINGS: At some time, look in your basket for 1 point. Also, you should 
use the computer a little at this point.  Use "DIR" to get  directories,  and 
"CD" to change directories;  sometimes you will need to enter passwords.  You 
should  go into the Personnel directory and read Pratt's file.  Don't  forget 
your passwords,  though, as you'll need to get into the Vice directory later. 
After reading Pratt's file, go "ASK PRATT ABOUT DRUGS" for another 5 points.

     JAIL

Go to the jail door. Put your gun in the locker (you remember that from PQ I, 
don't you?).  Press button. Even the jail has been remodeled. Now you have to 
show your ID and pose in front of the closed-circuit camera!  Oh  well,  into 
the jail.  Ask about Bains. Take the new mugshot from his file. Now ask about 
the kidnapped officer.  Read his file.  Ask about the getaway car. That's it. 
Out you go.  (Don't forget your gun!) Radio dispatch.  You're told there's  a 
stolen car located in the Mall. Drive to the Mall.

     MALL

At the mall,  get your kit from the trunk.  Open the car door.  Examine  car. 
Dust for prints.  Look in glove compartment. Talk to the woman. Ask her about 
her car.  There doesn't seem to be much else here (the game won't let you  go 
shopping <sigh>).

     COTTON COVE AND MURDER EVIDENCE

A jogger reported violence at Cotton Cove!  You know that place; you had some 
fun  there back in PQ I.  (I wonder if it's been remodeled,  too?)  Get  your 
field kit.  Talk to the girl,  and ask her what happened.  She tells you that 
she saw blood marks,  You'd better check that out.  Go to the left.  Look  in 
garbage can.  Get the clothing.  Watch out for that car!  Look on the ground. 
Now to gather the evidence:  Take pictures,  get a blood sample,  and use the 
plaster on the footprint.

     DIVING, BODY, BADGE, AND KNIFE

Diving?  That's  part of the fun of being in Homicide!  Show the  diver  your 
diving certificate.  You don't have one?  Try looking in your wallet!  Now to 
change  into  diving gear.  Go into the van.  Put everything on  (except  the 
second set of flippers,  of course).  Look at each air tank, and take the one 
with the most air.  Now go and dive. Get the badge (in the middle screen) and 
the  knife  (to  the left of the screen).  The body is to the  right  of  the 
screen,  on the right, behind a rock. Up you go, hauling the body between the 
pair of you. Change your clothing, go back to your car, and (as if you didn't 
know) radio dispatch!

     ADDITIONAL POINTS

JAIL:  In  addition  to all the things mentioned in the  main  walkthru,  you 
should  also "ASK JAILER ABOUT KIDNAPPING." Then,  you can "ASK SAXTON  ABOUT 
KIDNAPPING." You may replace "kidnapping" with "escape" if you prefer.

MALL: When dusting for prints in the car, make certain you dust the glove box 
before  you  open it.  "DUST GLOVE BOX FOR FINGERPRINTS," then "USE  TAPE  ON 
GLOVE BOX." Be sure that you get the holster and bullets from the glove  box, 
as well.  After talking to the woman,  return to your car, "RADIO ABOUT GUN," 
and "RADIO ABOUT CAR" for a total of 3 points.

COTTON COVE: After talking to the jogger and asking her about blood or marks, 
walk  one screen to the left.  While still on the right edge of  the  screen, 
draw your gun.  Proceed left.  When Bains appears,  fire.  After scaring him, 
holster the gun,  and stay off the road.  Once the car goes racing by,  it is 
safe to proceed to the next screen to the left.  But better than that, return 
to your car and radio.  Then proceed two screens to the left.  After  getting 
the clothing, be sure to examine it, and read nametag (2 points).

     AIRPORT, STOLEN CAR, FLOWERS, AND GUN

Another stolen car has been seen in the vicinity of the airport.  Off you go. 
The  car  is  at the bottom right of the parking  lot.  Examine  car.  Get  a 
fingerprint  from  the rear view mirror by dusting  the  mirror,  then  using 
fingerprint tape.  Go over to the airport.  Press the button before crossing 
the  street!  (Didn't  your mother teach you that?) Wait for  a  few  seconds 
outside the airport, and buy flowers for Marie from the woman. What flower do 
you want? Why, a rose, of course!

Go into the airport and talk to the agent.  If the agent is busy,  show  your 
badge.  Ask about Bains, show the mugshot, and ask to see the passenger list. 
You're told that flight left 20 minutes ago. Looks like the bird got away! Go 
to the bathroom.  You don't need to go,  but do it anyway.  Enter the  middle 
stall.  Look at toilet,  open toilet,  and look in toilet. (Get that look off 
your face!) Flush the toilet,  get gun,  and leave. Go back to your car, and, 
yes, you guessed it: Radio dispatch.

     THE STATION, MARIE, COMPUTER, AND OFF DUTY

Drive back to the Police Station.  Book the evidence at the window, and go to 
your  office.  Look  in your basket.  Marie wants you to call.  To  find  her 
number,  call 411.  You don't know her last name (better not tell her that -- 
she'd be very upset!),  so go to the computer.  (You didn't know Sierra  made 
hardware,  did you?) Type DIR for directory,  and CD to change directory. You 
have  the passwords (they were written on the papers on the Captain's  desk). 
Go  to the "vice" directory,  (Marie was a prostitute in PQ I,  and a  record 
always  remains.)  When you find her name,  go back and  call  411,  get  her 
number, and call her.

You have a date tonight now.  (For a good laugh, use the phone to call Sierra 
Customer Service (209) 683-6858, and Sierra BBS (209) 683-4463). Put the keys 
back on the wall.  Put your gun, ammo, and cuffs back in the locker. Put your 
field kit back in its storage bin. You're now off duty.

     RESTAURANT

Take your own car and drive to the restaurant.  Marie is waiting for you. Sit 
down.  Talk to Marie. Give her the rose. Kiss her. (That was good, wasn't it? 
And you got 2 points for it,  too!) Kiss her again (for an extra point), call 
the waiter, and order food. (Yep, good food does take a while.) Eat the food; 
then, call the waiter again, and pay for the meal. Thus ends day 1.

     ADDITIONAL POINTS

AIRPORT: First, you should examine the car's license plate for 1 point. Then, 
after  getting the print,  you should radio the office for 2 points.  In  the 
bathroom,  you really should dry that gun off.  Try drying it underneath  the 
hand dryer. In addition, go northwest from the ticket agents. There, show the 
mug  shot (and your badge,  if necessary) to the rental agents.  One of  them 
will recognize Bains, and you can ask for a rental list. You can get 4 points 
at the rental agency.  Also,  don't forget to push the traffic button on your 
way back to the car.  Once in your car, make sure you both "RADIO" and "RADIO 
ABOUT RENTAL CAR."

     DAY 2, WAREHOUSE MURDER, AND ENVELOPE

There's been a murder at the Warehouse!  Drive to the warehouse.  The body is 
in the trunk.  Look at body,  then look in hand.  Get the envelope.  You have 
nothing else to do here; so, drive to the address on the envelope.






     MOTEL, SEARCH WARRANT, AND BUSINESS CARD

The  address  turns  out  to be a motel.  Ask the man  in  the  window  which 
apartment you want,  and ask for the key.  He won't give it to you; so, radio 
for a warrant.  Show the man the warrant and get the key.  Stand on the right 
of the door,  draw gun, and open door. BOOM! Good thing you were standing out 
of the line of fire!  Enter the apartment and go into bathroom. You can't see 
the bathroom,  but look around to see what's there. Look in the sink, get the 
business card,  and read it.  Colby?  You remember him: He's the guy who gave 
evidence  against Bains in PQ I.  What's Bains doing with his  card?  Nothing 
left to do here, so go to see Marie. You did promise her you'd visit.

     MARIE'S HOUSE

Drive to Marie's house.  You see a note on the door.  Take it and read it. Go 
inside.  What's happened here? Oh, no! Marie has been kidnapped! Look around. 
Look at table,  look in the ashtray,  take the paper, and read it. Looks like 
Bains' hit list...and you and Marie are next!  Heartbroken,  you head back to 
the station.

     THE STATION, BURGLARY OFFICE, AND STEELTON CALL

At the station,  book the evidence,  but get the number from Colby's business 
card first -- you'll need to call and warn him.  Go into the burglary office, 
and  ask about the gun you discovered.  Go back to your office,  sit down  at 
your desk,  and use the phone to find out the number of Steelton Police. Call 
them and warn them about Bains.  Now call Colby and warn him.  (Doesn't  seem 
too concerned, does he?) Read the envelope in your basket. If you're going to 
chase Bains,  you'd better go and adjust your gun sights again.  (You  should 
know  how to do that by now,  or you'd never have gotten this far!) Get  your 
field kit, and drive to the airport.

     THE AIRPORT, TICKETS, AND METAL DETECTOR

Careful as you cross the street to the airport. Go in and ask for a ticket to 
Steelton. How much? You don't have that much money! Ah, Keith has an idea. He 
calls the Captain and gets the okay to charge the tickets.  (If he doesn't do 
this,  you didn't read the envelope in your basket. Go back and read it.) Get 
the  tickets,  go  to the right,  up the escalator,  and  through  the  metal 
detector. You'd better show your ID to pass through. Next stop: the plane!

     PLANE, HIJACK, AND BOMB

Sit  down  and wear seatbelt.  Drink your drink.  The flight  seems  terribly 
uneventful  until  hijackers suddenly appear!  Remove seat  belt.  While  the 
hijacker is holding the stewardess,  stand and draw gun.  As soon as he drops 
her,  fire! Shoot the other guy as he leaves the cockpit. Check their pockets 
and turbans. Get the instructions and wire cutters. Now to find the bomb.

Go to the bathroom at the back of the plane. Open the dispenser. There it is! 
Read the instructions for making the bomb;  then, do the exact opposite. When 
the instructions say connect,  you cut; when it says disconnect, you connect! 
Well done! Now the the flight will be uneventful!

     ADDITIONAL POINTS

WAREHOUSE:  Before  departing  the  station,  be sure to  grab  all  of  your 
equipment out of your locker.  Also,  make sure you have your field kit. Once 
at the warehouse,  make certain that you take pictures of the trunk, and take 
a blood sample.  After getting the envelope's corner, "MOVE BODY." Then, look 
in the trunk again to find a death threat.  Looks like Bains really wants  to 
get you! These extra things will earn you an additional 6 points.




MOTEL:  To ask the manager which room you want,  show him the mug shot. After 
getting the key,  "RADIO FOR BACKUP," since Bains just might still be in  the 
room. After opening the door, wait a while for the smoke to clear, then enter 
the  room.  In addition to the business card,  you can find some lipstick  by 
"LOOK  UNDER BED." You should thoroughly examine the nightstand for the  rest 
of the envelope.

MARIE'S HOUSE: Make sure you "EXAMINE WRITING" on the note. It's not Marie's, 
and it gets you 3 points.

STATION:  When on the phone with Colby and the Steelton PD, say "HELLO," then 
"TELL MAN ABOUT BAINS." And be sure to check your message basket.

     STEELTON POLICE STATION

After a brief helicopter flight (Lytton station could do with one of  those), 
you find yourself in Steelton Police Station.  Go into the office and talk to 
the Inspector.  It seems as if you are too late:  Colby has been killed.  But 
Bains made a call from Burt Park;  perhaps he's still there!  Get the two-way 
radios from the table and go to the Park.

     BURT PARK, MUGGER, MANHOLE, SEWER, AND GAS MASK

Walk  around the park.  When the mugger runs over to you,  call Keith on  the 
radio.  Got him!  Now go to the right of the pond.  Look at manhole, open it, 
and down you go!

Walk very carefully down here -- don't slip into the sewer!  Cross the  sewer 
and go to the right.  At the end of the tunnel,  go down one screen.  DO  NOT 
STOP or you'll die of gas poisoning. Make a left and avoid the sewer pipes by 
crossing  the tunnel when necessary.  Open the cabinet,  get  the  mask,  and 
continue left.  Whenever you start to feel weak,  wear the gas mask.  Now  go 
down one screen and to the right: a door!

     FIND MARIE, BAINS, AND ENDGAME

Go through the door, and look! There's Marie tied up! Walk toward Marie. When 
she starts to mumble,  tell her to be quiet,  or else Bains will hear her and 
kill you both!  Untie Marie.  What's that?  Footsteps!  Quick!  Run and  hide 
behind that big pipe on the left. Load and draw your gun. As soon as Bains is 
level with you, fire three shots, and he's history!

That's it, the game takes over now! Sit back and enjoy the ending!

     ADDITIONAL POINTS

BURT PARK: After calling Keith to aid you with the mugger, you need to follow 
regulations.  "READ  RIGHTS" to mugger,  then "QUESTION MUGGER.


     POLICE QUEST II is published and distributed by Sierra On-Line, Inc.

     This walkthru is copyright (c) 1989 by Benny. All rights reserved.

     Additional Points are copyright (c) 1989 by Andrew Hatchell. All rights
     reserved.







X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
