 







                    Police Quest Hints








     You start out in the police station you need to get the
keys from the key board to your left To get the key type get
key geezz some people. Than go to the desk with the radios
and get one By typing get radio wasn't that hard. Than enter
the room at the top right go to the bottom right hand desk
and get the newspaper by typing get paper. Read the newspaper
carefully. After you do that type drop paper. Than go to the
upper right hand desk and stand there (Isn't this boring???).
Read everything the sergeant says. He talks to much. Don't
strain your Brain capacity by remembering some numbers.
Remember Your call number. After this is done go back where
you started and enter the bottom right hand room. Try to find
your locker by typing open locker. Find it yet hahahahaha.
Type get all. Close the locker by typing close locker go out.
Go through the top left corner and keep going out. Now try to
find your car by typing open door. Find it yet hahahahaha.
Now after you find it walk around your car now get in it by
opening the door. When you get in it type Get Pr-24. Now type
close door then get out put this in normal speed by typing
normal. Drive around the city for a while and get the hang of
driving. Get on Fig street to find out where you are hit
Crtl-D key travel east and west only! When the dispatch calls
you to go to fig and 4th corner just travel east and west
until you see a green car park in the block when I mean in I
mean like the car hit the block hard. Ask question to the
crowd like talk to man, talk to women, etc. and look at the
car like look window, look man, look car, etc.. Use the radio
here a lot and read the response carefully. Get out of there
when told to. Go on the freeway type slow hit F8. Now go to
the map marked C3 or B? well it is somewhere where the
freeway passes. The dispatch will call you to Castle Caffeine
it tells you what to do you have to find it yourself hehe.
Look for a red car that turns a red light read the screen
carefully to pull the car over hit F10 be careful now this
tuff. Use the radio when you get her to turn over. Press F4;
open the door; get out; close the door; walk to the car; look
girl; talk to girl and keep talking until she gives you her
phone number do not call this number no matter what you can
try but save it before you do. Now go to the screen A3 and
stop in a safe spot save the game here. Wait. Wait. Wait.
Type Fastest. Wait until the dispatch calls you again. This
is where the castle Caffeine is located. Then enter the
castle talk to carol go next door talk to the man type ask
man to move bike or something like that when they surround
you type use Pr-24. After the girl talks to you leave and go
to your car and start roaming around the city. Look for a
purple car driving funny. Read the pop up screens carefully.
Use the same way of making the drunk pull over as you did the
hooker. Use the radio when you get him to pull over. Get out
of the car walk toward the drunk ask drunk to get out of car;
give drunk a test; read drunk his rights; Arrest drunk; cuff
drunk in the front always cuff people in the front never in
the back; put drunk in the back seat; and use the radio. Go
to the screen right below the screen you started in. Go to
the bottom road; go to the seconded; road go north and enter
the space in the block to the right. Get out of the car; get
the drunk out of the car; close the doors; go up the stairs;
open locker; put gun in locker; close locker; push button on
the other side of the door; enter;book him for drunk driving;
remove cuff;do not forget to get your gun when you are done
always get your gun and do what the girl says; go back to the
station; write memo. I think you are off duty go to The Blue
Room if you are not off duty roam around some more if not do
the following; go to your locker; open locker;get towel;
close locker; take a shower; open locker; get clothes; get
key; return the patrol car key back and also the radio.  Go
to The Blue Room; head left one screen; up one screen; it is
the first road on your left; enter the pub; have a seat; wait
a while;get back to the station; go to your locker;get
towel;take a shower;get into your uniform;get key; get radio;
go to the second room you went to at the beginning. Go to
your briefing desk;remember most of the things he is talking
about. Go to the right side of the room and type near the
boxes read mail and read it carefully. get the key and the
radio and go to work. Check your car before leaving the yard.
Drive around and look at the pop up screen a lot. You are now
looking for a lightest blue car you can see. Try to stay the
same speed as he is (F8) but sometimes go to F10 and make him
pull over finally you will get him to pull over. Use your
radio. Push F4 and use your radio again but do not get out of
your car until your backup says you can.(Look at the help
screen)Load your gun and draw it tell man to get out of car
and type fast now type hold it. Tell the man to put up his
hands. Then tell man to lie down by just typing these
commands out. Walk toward the man;cuff him;search him;put him
in the back seat;open his trunk;get bag(you won't be able to
but you must find it;close trunk;go to his car door;open
compartment;get book;drop book;close door;and use your radio.
Your now ready to drive him to the jail. Don't Forget to put
your gun in the locker before you go in. Book this one on
drugs. After this go back to the yard. Drop the Key. Go in to
the door at the left hand side by typing open door you have
to read the not yourself. Do what the note says the office is
the door to the right in the screen to the left. Go to the
room to the left of the screen in the hall. Follow Laura
around the room. Get one of the keys on the board. Go to your
locker and get all. Get the radio. Go to your the car in the
very back. Give the car a check get in after you are done.
Press F4 two times wait for Laura to get in the car. Get out
of the yard. Go to the left screen until you can not go left
anymore. Go up until You can go in a little section of the
left some more and push F4. Go up one screen. Go behind the
back bush to your right and stay there until the two men come
but do not move until I tell you to. Wait until the men are
arguing the use your radio then load your gun. Type halt
press return the draw your gun. Move out to the open. You can
only get the first guy who gets there cuff him. This is hard
so you might have to do this a lot of times. Tell guy to
follow you to the car. Read them their rights. Type talk to
man and you get what you want. Use your radio. Drive them to
the jail do the same thing but do not forget to put your gun
in the locker. Book these guys on drugs. Go back to the
station. Go to the blue room sit with jack. Talk to jack.
Wait for a while. Go back to the station. Enter the office.
Go to your desk. Look in basket. Go in the office again.
Leave the room enter the room with your desk in. Go back to
the office. Go to the jail. You have to put your gun in the
locker. Talk to Sweet Cheeks. Type in help me. Then type help
hotel. Go to your Left for two screen enter the Bottom right
hand corner. To find who it is type look dead man body then
use your Radio. Go back to the station. Enter the office.
Read the pop up menus. Go take a shower. While in the shower
read the bottle to know how to bleach your hair. Get your
suit and cane and go to the office. Before going look at the
telephone and remember the number. Go to the hotel. It is one
left screen from Castle Caffeine. Ring the bell and when the
guy ask you what you want type in buy room. After that he
wants the money so type Pay Man. Go to the upper left hand
corner to enter the pub. Order a whiskey. (Be a man) Sweet
Cheeks will to the rest do not forget to pay the man. When
she tells you four man gone in the back room get up and talk
to Woody.  To make him talk Pay Man. Read what he has to say.
Go to your room. Call the chief. To call the cab call 0 the
when they ask Last name of party insert cab it will give you
the number call this number. When it ask where is the pickup
tell them hotel. Go to the bar pay woody by the ways of Pay
Man. Follow him to the back room. Sit with the two guys only
table and play poker with them. Save the game before you play
and every time when you win more money. You Have to reach
over $1100. They will give you a password remember it. After
this go back to your room. Wait until three guys enter your
room. Go to the guy who is alone and type get radio. Go Back
to woody give him the password Go to the Back room. Do the
same routine as you did to get money now you have to reach
more than $1400. Answer yes to his question and follow him to
his suit. Before he gets to his room use your radio. Now you
are home free the computer will do the rest.





     Cab's Number 555-9222     Chief's Number 555-6674
     Information 411           Password" frank sent me "
     Chief's wife Number 555-4369
     Call Number when on Beat 83-32
     Call number when on Narcotics 83-nora-10




     If You Need Any Help Call This Board

     CopyWorks Inc.
     (714)496-7069
     300/1200/2400
     Located in
     Dana Point, CA
     call 9:00pm-7:00am
         Only!




         Maker Of This Hints For You

          Co-Sysop of CopyWorks Inc.
               Lord DiskBoy

     Help From
          The Snake Sysop of Games Inc. Node II
          The IceBlock









     Coming n Soon Leisure Suit Larry Part Two
     Call This Rad Sierra-On-Line Board
     (209)683-4463
     300/1200/2400


          Tell Them Lord DiskBoy Sent ya


                         Bye




X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
