        The Complete Beneath A Steel Sky Walkthrough - Spoiler 3.21.94
           Solvers:  FOURTYoz, Hitiek, Red, OLiVER
                                                           jS Release!|
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-==-=-ÄÄ-ÄÅÄ-
                                                                      ³
                                                                      |
In the beginning ....

Get metal rod on left of screen.  Use rod (crow bar) to open the door on
right.  Go through door.  After ditching the cop go back downstairs and
exit to the right.  Put the circuit board in the robot shell (the middle
piece of junk at the bottom of the screen).  Look at the transporter robot.
Step on lift and quickly go to the room on the right.  Open the cabinet and
get the spanner before the man comes back.  Talk to the man and talk to
Joey.  Go back to left.  Talk to Joey and have him give the transporter
robot a jump start.  When the transport robot brings a barrel and activates
the lift go down the hole.  Look at the lock next to the door.  Talk to
Joey and have him open the door.  That camera sure was helpful.  Search the
body and get his ID.

Go through the door.  Go down the walkway to the right.  Go in the door on
the right.  Talk to the girl (Anita).  If Lamb kicks you out, just go back
in. Go to the right.  Put the spanner in the cogs.  Take the spanner back.
Go back to the left.  Use the spanner to loosen the welder shell. Talk to
Joey to give him a new shell.  Go right again.  Try to go in the room on
the upper left.  Talk to Joey and send him in the store room.  You can
watch him through the window if you want to.  Talk to Joey and have him
weld the fuse box. When Joey comes back, go into the storeroom and open the
gangway. The WD-40 and key are not needed.  Get the putty from the floor
where the gangway was.  Leave the storeroom.  Go to the electric plant
(left, left, left, left, left door)  Use the spanner to loosen both buttons
on the right control panel.  Have Joey help you push both buttons at once.
Shut the switch off on the left section of control panel.  Take the light
bulb and put the putty (plastic explosive) in the socket and turn power
back on. Make sure both switches are down!

Go back to the lift (right, right, right) Look at the red cable and have
Joey weld it.  Use the id in the slot on the lift to go down a level.
Congrats.  You're now getting somewhere. First thing to do is pick up that
cable you just cut.  Then go to Reich's room (left, green door, id in left
slot) and get the magazine under his pillow.  Go to the travel agency
(down, right, right, up) and talk to the man.  Give him the magazine and he
will trade it for a ticket.  Go find Lamb.  Outside the apartments is a
good place. (exit left, bottom left, left, green door)  Talk to Lamb.  Give
him the ticket.  He will give you a tour of the factory as a reward.  Go to
the factory (down, right, lift, upper right door).  Wait for Lamb, talk to
him and get your tour from him.  Go to the reactor area (right) and talk to
Anita.  Give her your id card and she will give you the jammer.  You can
now get more information from the terminals.  You must also get Anita to
tell you about the Schriebmann port.

The next stop is the implant office. (left, left, left, lift (make sure
Joey comes along), left, left, left) Talk to the projector. Have Joey talk
to the hologram so you can get in.  Go left and see the doctor and barter
for your port implant.  Talk to the doc again until he tells you to go see
his friend and this time go see Anchor (right, right, right, right, right,
right). When you ask for the special insurance tell him the doctor sent
you.  When anchor goes out back to make a phone call have Joey weld off the
anchor. Combine the anchor and the cable and you have a grappling hook.  Go
back up to the fire escape (left, left, lift, left, left, upper right,
stairs, right) and attach the grappling hook onto the Security sign. Forget
the lockers and go right to the interface in the next room.  Put your id
through the slot and use the interface.

Welcome to VR.  Pick up the ball.  Exit right.  Open the carpet bag (use
the doorknob in your inventory).  Pick up the magnifying glass and the
birthday surprise.  Use the decompress program on the compressed data. (in
your inventory)  Exit right.  Use the passwords you obtained on the floor
spots. It shouldn't be much trouble. Just basically put one in the closest
hole and then pick up the other.  Eventually exit up.  Get the bust and the
book.  Use the magnifying glass on the three documents.

Now disconnect and use the terminal (with your id card).  Activate phoenix
so you have unlimited access and screw over Lamb by taking his credit and
access.  Also, be sure to read the first two documents in the security
services. Go talk to Lamb again (he should be next to the elevator going
down) (lift, left, right) (if he isn't there wander around and come back,
he will show up).  Talk to him and get access to his apartment.  Go down to
the next level and go to Lamb's apartment. (lift, left, green door, id in
right slot, right door)  Feed his cat if you feel like it and get the video
tape off the bookshelf.  Now you can go down to the next level. (exit left,
down, lift) First thing you should do is go talk to the doorman. (left)
You are then going to need a sponsor so go find Mrs Pierdman and talk to
her.  When she goes back to her apartment buzz her so you can get in.
(private lift on rightmost screen) Ask her about sponsorship again and she
will go use the phone.

Go play the video tape you got from Lamb's apartment to distract the dog.
Take the dog biscuits and leave.  Go back the the elevator and the bricks.
(exit lift, left)  When Miss P and her mutt come around again put the dog
biscuits on the plank and pull the rope.  Time for the mutt to take a bath.
You can now get into the cathedral.  There isn't much to do in there but
you will find that Anita is dead. (exit upper right(where the guard was
standing), up through middle door, open middle locker)  Time to go back to
the reactor and investigate. (left, left, lift, right, lift, upper right,
right)  Open the middle locker and put on the radiation suit.  Go right.
Use the control panel to open the reactor and go get Anita's card from the
reactor.  Leave the reactor.  Exit left.  Put your clothes back on.

Go back to the Security building.  (left, left, left, left, upper right,
lift)  Use the interface with Anita's card.  This part is time dependant,
you may want to slow down the speed.  Use blind on the first eye, go right,
use blind on the second eye and go up immediately.  Go up, right, and pick
up the tuning fork.  Did you make it in time?  Go left again.  Use the
playback on the well.  Disconnect. Go down to the park. (lift, left, right,
lift, left, lift, right)  Talk to the gardener/Eduardo.  Talk to the boy.
Talk to Eduardo again.  Head to the courthouse next to the club. (left,
left) Defend Hobbins.

After you help him out, go to the club (exit right by the doorman) and play
the first song on the jukebox.  When the owner gets up take his glass from
the table and head to the implant doctor. (exit left, upper right, lift,
left, left, left)  Give the glass to him and he will copy the fingerprints
onto you.  Time to pick up something before you go to the wine cellar.  Go
to the shed. (exit right, right, lower right, lift, right, lower left) Look
at the door.  Use an id card on the lock.  Go in and get the clippers
(secateurs).  Head back to the club (exit left, left, club door)  Put your
thumb on the metal plate next to the door in the upper right corner. Use
the crow bar to pry open the lid of the packing case and place it on the
smaller box.  Climb up on the box and use your crow bar on the grill. After
you make the hole use the clippers to gain entrance.

Go through the narrow passage.  Go right.  Follow the diagonal track. Right
again.  Now put the light bulb in the socket on the left side of the hole.
Make sure you don't get in front of the hole or a monster will get you.  Go
right.  Right again.  You might want to slow the game down again. Run down
the tunnel or the ceiling will fall on you.  Use the metal bar on the
plaster above the swelling in the vein. Use the bar on the bricks you just
exposed.  Pick up the brick.  Use the metal bar on the swelling, then hit
the bar with the brick.  Pull the bar out again.

Go through the door when the repair robot comes.  Go through the door in
the center of the screen.  Use the control unit to decrease the
temperature. Pull the metal bar in the ceiling before the cover opens
again.  Go back upstairs.  Go to the right. Go through the door.  Put
Joey's circuit board in the slot in the back of the medical robot.  Have a
complete conversation. Exit through the lower left door.  Go to the left.
Look through the grill on the wall.  Tell Joey to check out the tank room.
You can watch him through the grill.  Wait for Joey to come back.  Talk to
Joey until you can tell him to open the tap on the nutrient tank.  You can
watch him through the grill again. Once he opens the tap, go to the right,
through the door, and through the upper left door.  The android will fall
through the grate.

Exit to the upper right. Go through the door to the upper right. Use your
id card in the terminal to open the access door. Leave the room. Search the
corpse and take Joey's board.  Go back through the upper right door.  Use
the red link card to access the interface.  Go right, blind the eye and go
up. Use the devine wrath to knock out the crusader. Disconnect.  Use
Anita's card to access the interface.  Go back to where the crusader was
and go right.  Use the oscillator to break the crystal. Pick up the helix
and disconnect.  Exit the room.  Go through the lower right door.  Use
Anita's card on the console.

Use the tongs (next to the right door) to get a piece of tissue out of the
rectangular huge tank. Quickly, use the tongs on the frozen huge tank.  You
should end up with a piece of frozen tissue. Exit to the right.  Open the
cabinet under the console for the middle android.  Put Joey's board in the
cabinet.  Use the console to download the character data.  Run the startup
program. Have a complete conversation.  Go to the right. Tell Ken to put
his hand on the sensor. Put your hand on the other sensor at the same time.
Joey will get stuck. Go through the door. Go to the right. Tie the cable to
the pipe support.  Go down the rungs. Use the tongs on the orifice.  Grab
the cable.  When your father falls out of the chair you will regain control
for a short time. Tell Ken to sit in the chair.

Now wasn't that fun?

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-==-=-=-=-=-=-=
Greetz go out to:

FOURTYoz: PHOENiX for cracking the game, TheMack, OS for getting me started
  Barnabus, Hacker, CP, Midiman, RetsaM, Jizmak, Snkeyes, Megafork, Eveso, etc
OLiVER: The jS Crew, Enforcer, and the rest of the channel of course
Hitiek - he's still catatonic after typing the solve
Red: Major thanks to Schmoo, Sup to Paco, Smellferd, Ratt, and Shubey
