CompuServe CIS:TEG-11018




 SORCERIAN
   Part 1

 INTRODUCTION

 Due to the unique manner in which SORCERIAN is presented, this walkthru will be
a guide to finding your way through the various quests. After you've solved each
quest, before exiting back to the menu screen, take the time to travel back
through the quests' landscapes to locate hidden goodies -- items which won't be
discovered until after the quest is over.

 CREATING CHARACTERS

 You can create up to ten characters, but most parties may only consist of up to
four characters; several quests only allow three characters to participate.

 Generally, fighting characters (fighters and dwarves) have low (or minus)
Press <CR> for more !




CompuServe CIS:TEG-11019

intelligence, but high strength and vitality; magical characters (wizards and
elves) have high intelligence but low (or minus) strength and vitality. At
various points in the quests, these attributes become important: High vitality
is required to open doors in the later quests; intelligence is needed to use the
magic in the items you will acquire; karma is important when talking to the NPCs
you'll meet, getting better prices, and for dealing with the priest in the
temple on the "Go to Town" menu. Other important stats are dexterity,
protection, magic protection (the ability to escape magical traps), and age.
And, as is true in most games of this type, male characters have higher strength
and vitality than females, but the ladies have higher karma and intelligence.

 So, give your character a name, select their class (fighter, dwarf, elf, or
wizard), their sex, and press ENTER to see what point bonus you get. Fighters
and dwarves get relatively high bonus points, while wizards and elves get lower
bonuses; females get lower bonuses than males, regardless of class. If you get a
bonus lower than five points, you might want to consider deleting the character
and trying again. Additional bonus points can be gained by raising the
character's starting age. You receive one additional point for increasing the
age of fighters, dwarves, and wizards by two years; elves' ages increase in
increments of five years per point.
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11022


 Spread the bonus points around your characters' stats. Strength, dexterity, and
intelligence are the best ones to add to at the beginning; the other stats will
go up with experience, training, worship, and magic item acquisition.

 OCCUPATIONS

 This gets rather tricky. The occupations carry stat bonuses and penalties with
them. For example, some occupations may lower your character's strength but
increase his intelligence. Refer to the SORPRO.HLP file in LIBrary 9 -- CRPGs --
in The Gamers' Forum for a list of occupations, bonuses, penalties, and
earnings. There are four occupations which carry no point penalties (Farmer,
Florist, Housekeeper, and Cook). If you don't change your characters'
occupations, they'll all be Farmers. One of the quests requires that certain
occupations be included in the party. These will be noted at the beginning of
the quest.

 When you view the Occupations Menu, only those jobs printed in gold can be
selected by the character; occupations printed in purple cannot be selected; the
character's current occupation will be printed in white. The gold coins paid per
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11024

year will be listed at the top of the screen, and this will change as you move
the cursor to the different jobs. Note: Karma will affect the annual pay of your
characters; the higher the karma, the higher the pay.

 GOING TO TOWN

 After you've generated at least four characters, save them, and go into town.
Take each character to the weapons shop for outfitting; if they're not fully
equipped, they can't go on quests. That's all you need to do in town at the very
beginning. After you've been through the first quest, you'll do much more here.
The following paragraphs explain the functions of the various town locations:

 WEAPONS SHOP: In addition to buying weapons and armor, you can sell items and
potions: Don't! The prices you'll get are ridiculously low. Instead, sell them
after a quest is over (on the "end of quest" menu) to get fantastically high
prices.

 MAGICIAN: Come here to enchant items, retrieve those already enchanted, remove
enchantments from items, and to resurrect the dead (it's cheaper than the
temple, and karma's not a factor). Item enchantment takes three years to
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11026

complete and costs vary. Remember that you can only add one god's influence to
an item per enchantment request. So, if you want to create a sword with two Mars
influences, you'll have to enchant it twice -- that's six years. (Refer to the
MAGIC.SOR file in LIBrary 9 -- CRPGs -- in the Gamers' Forum for explicit
details.)

 HERBALIST: You can buy potions here, or you can have the herbalist mix the
herbs you've found in the quests. Note that all the potions listed in the
documentation aren't available; refer to it when you're having herbs mixed to
get those not for sale.

 While I'm talking about the herbs and potion mixtures, I'll touch briefly on
the creation of potions by characters skilled in Herbs. As mentioned, not all
the potions listed in the documentation can be purchased; some need to be mixed
by the herbalist. On the quests, you'll find the five different herbs which
combine to create potions. Refer to the documentation to have the herbalist mix
a potion he doesn't carry from your list of herbs. Once you have that potion,
the game will automatically "clone" it if the character possessing the potion
has Herb Knowledge and if the proper herbs are in _any_ character's possession.

 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11028

 To summarize: If your Herb Knowledge character has a potion of Cure and a
potion of Anti-Magic, and if the party's carrying five Verbenas and two Savorys,
the Cure potion (Verbena) could be cast six times, or the Anti-Magic (Verbena
and Savory) and Cure (Verbena) potions could be cast three times each. It's a
bit tricky and requires a close check of your herb/potion inventory, but you'll
get the hang of it as you go along.

 TEMPLE: While seemingly unimportant, a visit to the temple is necessary after
each quest to keep your karma high and to keep you in the gods' good graces.
Donate gold and make a confession to raise the negative karma of a character.
Only do this once a year, though. Praying after each quest is equally important;
doing so lets the gods know you're worthy of their intercession -- essential if
you need to resurrect a fallen hero. Only use the resurrect feature in the
temple if the magician isn't guaranteeing a 100% rate of success, or if his
price is beyond your means.

 ELDER'S HOUSE: Until you have a character trained in Item Knowledge, bring
items you find in quests here to be identified. The elder will charge for his
services, but it's money well spent. In addition, he'll tell you various legends
about which combination of gods create which spells; be sure to answer YES when
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11030

he offers to tell you the legends. He'll only tell you a legend after he's
identified one of your items. It's a good idea to make notes of what influences
your items have for future reference. If an especially powerful spell is on an
item, he'll charge you to "turn on" the magic spell. Again, the prices for this
service will vary.

 THRONE ROOM: This is where you come to gain level and stat increases after a
quest. These will be automatically bestowed if you're ready to go up a level.
The king will also tell you how many points are required to gain your next
increase. Be sure to bring both your participating and non-participating
characters here; even inactive characters will gain experience during their year
of occupational duty.

 TRAINING FIELD: Bring your characters here for training. Training takes two
years to complete regardless of the skill in which you're being trained. After
the first quest, the best skills to train your characters in are Item Knowledge,
Trap Escapes, and Herb Knowledge. The other skills are equally important, but
get several quests "under your belt" before you spend the two years to learn
them.

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11069

 MUSICIAN'S GUILD: I'm still not certain what this place does, but it's free,
and the music's pretty if you have a music card in your computer.

 After all your characters have been to town this first time, save them, create
a party, and you're ready for your first quest!

 THE QUESTS

 In order to avoid repetitious directions, I've given names to each of the rooms
you'll visit in the various quests. I'll give you detailed instructions to reach
the room the first time; afterward, I'll refer to it by name only (e.g., "Go
back to the Throne Room"). At the end of the quests, I'll give you a list of
special items I was able to locate which aren't listed on the "Items" pages at
the beginning of the quest descriptions in the SORCERIAN documentation.
Consequently, I'll mention those items which are listed in the documentation,
but which I couldn't locate.

 FIGHT THE DRAGON

 When your heroes are experienced enough, after you've organized a party, you'll
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11071

be given the option to Fight the Dragon. This quest is murderous; it doesn't
appear to be an actual quest, but more of a dragon-bashing expedition. I was not
able to complete that quest, but it looks pretty straightforward; just close
your eyes, cross your fingers, and pray.

 Now, on with the quests!

 SORCERIAN is published by Nihon-Falcom and distributed by Sierra On-Line.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Barbara Baser. All rights reserved.
Last page !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11073




 SORCERIAN
   Part 2

 THE STOLEN SCEPTER

 Put your fighters in the front, your magic user (if you have one) in the back,
and press your CAPS LOCK key so that you'll have your characters' hit and magic
points displayed at all times. Go to the right across the bridge (Ball Room),
jump, and get the blue ball. Go left, fall down into the chasm (don't worry
about falling; your characters won't ever take hit points from falls), and go
all the way right to the hole.

 Go through the hole (Demon Room), right, and insert the blue ball in the hole
next to the door to open it. Enter the door and fight the Bogards (Bogard Room).
The magic user's Wooden Cane has a fireball spell on it. Hold down the ENTER key
to use it. This is a good place to gain experience; if you position your party
just right, the Bogards can't reach them, but pile up in a nice, tight column,
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11074

making them easy pickings. Allow them to pile up so that your party can regain
their hit points. Then, fight them and make your way to the right to the Stone
Switch. Jump and touch the switch to enter the Rat Room. Don't jump in front of
any holes in the Rat Room which have rats (red eyes) in them unless you want to
fight the rat hordes which come forth when you do.

 Go left until you see a hole without rats (almost to the left wall), and enter
it (Water Jug Room). Go to the jug and jump twice to get it. Go right through
the door into the Bat Room. Dash to the right (hold the Shift and right-arrow
keys down) and go through the door (Two-Jug Room). Go through the left-hand door
first. Jump twice to put water in the jug (One-Jug Room) then, go through the
right-hand door (Skeleton Room). Dash right and enter the first door you come to
(Spike Room). Heal up, then dash across the spikes to the left wall to get the
first Crystal. Dash back to the right, heal, go through the door, and dash right
to the next door. Go through it (Bridge Room) and head right to the torch. Jump
up to reveal a hidden door in the Rat Room (directly below you). Then, continue
to the right, and go through the door. You're back in the Ball Room.

 Go back to the Rat Room, go right, and through the door. Go up the stairs,
through the door, and walk to the right to find the second Crystal. Then, walk
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11077

to the left hole, and enter it. Go back to the Rat Room and make your way to the
Two-Jug Room.

 Put one Crystal in the left jug and the other in the right jug. This has
drained a particularly nasty acid lake; take the Crystals from the jars. Go
through the right-hand door to the Acid-Drop Room. Go through the middle door
and dash right (even more bats!) to the stone switch. Jump up and touch it (you
won't get any flashing lights this time), race back, and jump up to get back
into the Acid-Drop Room. Go back through the left-hand door, and work your way
back to the Ball Room, then on to the Demon Room. Get the blue ball, exit the
room, then go left and through the door (3-Door Room).

 Dash all the way to the right (watch your head!), and go through the last door
into the Torch Room. Insert the ball in the niche, and enter the door (Acid Lake
Room). Go all the way to the right and leap over the last gap to the ledge. Go
to the statue and take the jewel. (Note: The trap won't affect your fighter
characters' ability to fight.) Go left and make your way back to the Demon Room.
(Don't forget to take the ball with you!)

 Heal completely, then insert the jewel in the Demon's hands to open the
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11079

right-hand door. Kill the two hydras with your fighters' swords (fireballs won't
work on them) for 250 experience points (EPs), and go right to get some Savory.
Exit the Hydra Room, take the Jewel, open the left-hand door, and enter it. Go
back to the Acid-Drop Room, insert the jewel in this statue's hands, remove it,
and go back to the Acid-Lake Room. (Inserting the jewel in the second demon's
hands removes a stone trap blocking your progress under the statue in the
Acid-Lake Room.)

 Go all the way right, down into the gap, stop, and heal. Now, go all the way
right to the chest. Fight the Ouks, get the Scepter, Long Sword, and Sage. Then,
go back to the 3-Door Room. Enter the middle door (Goran's Room), go down the
stairs, and talk to Goran. Leave him, go left, and through the next door you
come to (Hole Room). Go all the way right and through the door at the top of the
stairs. You'll find yourself in the Spike Room. Unfortunately, it's still in
operation. Jump right and enter the Skeleton Room.

 Now that you've found the Scepter, all the monster activity has halted. Take
your time to stroll through the caverns, touching walls to find herbs. Go to the
Ball Room, then return to Goran's Room. He should be gone. Go to where he was
sitting to find Goran's Axe.
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11086


 When you're ready to leave, go back to the Ball Room. Save your game, go to the
ledge's edge, and jump across the chasm. You want to get out with that blue
ball! If you fall down to the lower level, restore, and try again until you make
it. Go all the way left and the quest is over. Make sure you have the following
items in your inventory before exiting the quest: Long Sword, Scepter, Blue
Ball, two Crystals, Water Jug, Goran's Axe, and Jewel.

 Give the Scepter to the king for gold. Sell the crystals, jewel, and jug. Keep
the Long Sword and Goran's Axe (use the DIVIDE option on the menu), and the Blue
Ball (it has a resurrect spell on it). Sell the short sword of the fighter who
receives the Sword and/or Axe (press the right-arrow key to get to your
characters' items for selling purposes). Disband the party, go to town to
convert herbs into potions, to visit the king for stat increases, for training
(if you wish), and to pray at the temple. In addition to gaining experience
through battles, training will net you experience. Be sure to visit the king
after training in case you've gained a level.

 Repeat the Lost Scepter quest until each of your fighters has a Long Sword,
your magic user (if you have one) has a Blue Ball and a Scepter (you only need
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11089

to give it to the king once; refuse the second time you complete the quest), and
each of your characters has at least 600 hit points. Train one character in
Items, another in Herbs, and a third in Traps before starting the next quest.

 HINT: While training is in progress, item enchantment should be done if you
want. That way, instead of having to play through three years' worth of quests
before an item's ready, you only have to wait one additional year after
training's completed.

 THE LOST TALISMAN

 Lots of traps in this quest; put your character with Trap Knowledge in the lead
before examining anything!

 Battle your way right and through the hole in the hedge (Left Hedge Room).
Then, go all the way right and stand under the cross. You hear the voice of the
Forest God who tells you what you must do and gives you the Golden Pedestal.
Head back to the Left Hedge Room, then go right, and up the stairs (Hill Top
Room). Wait at the top until the Hill Giants reach you. Do battle with them
until you win. Go right to receive the Emerald Ring.
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11095


 Go downstairs to the right (Well Room), go left, and through the hole in the
hedge (Sap Room). Jump over and get the Jar of Sap. Exit back to the Well Room,
and go through the wooden door into the Statue Room. The statue's trapped.
Examine it twice to open the stone slab, then heal before entering the opening
(Destru's Room). Equip your fighters with the Long Swords (if you haven't done
so already), your magic user with the Crystal Ring (it has the Heal spell on
it), and do battle with Destru. HINT: Destru is putty in the hands of a Long
Sword-wielding dwarf! Hold down the Spacebar, stay close to where his balls of
light coalesce, and beat on him until you win. (Press the ENTER key when you
need to heal your characters. Note that use of the Crystal Ring uses magic
points; magic points regenerate quickly.) After the battle, you receive Destru's
Diamond Staff which will get you through most of the doors.

 Heal and go through the right-hand door to the Purple Worm Room. Go left to the
door just before the ornate statue and use the Emerald Ring to open it. Enter
the room and examine the mediating man twice. After he tells you what a terrible
thing you've done, go back to the Purple Worm Room, jump over the worms, go all
the way left, heal, and go through the hole into the Chronodemon Room. Dash down
the hill, and left to the stone slab. Examine it twice, then go through the door
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11098

to its right. Now, examine the niche twice. When the sand starts pouring
through, exit this room, cross over the ex-slab, and go through the door into
the Niche Room.

 Enter the open niche, and go right though the door into Ria's Room. Talk to her
and do as she bids. Go left, upstairs, through the door into the Well Bottom
Room. Then, go all the way right, jump onto the rope, and climb it. As you do,
you drop the pedestal (it can't be helped). You're back in the Well Room. Go
right, upstairs, and examine the door until it opens. Enter it to find Ria's
uncle. Talk to him, and after he leaves, go back to the Well Room, and down into
the water. Walk right to learn you can't find the pedestal. Exit the well (don't
go back up the rope!), and you find wet footprints leading left. Follow them and
a hidden door is revealed to you.

 Go through it, down the stairs, and through the door. You're back in the Purple
Worm Room. Return to the Chronodemon Room, go left up the hill through the door,
up and through the next door, then stop and heal. Fight the Sand Maribo to earn
500 EPs. HINT: Stand on the lower stairs to the left of its lair, and make it
have to go to the bottom of the stairs to _your_ left. Hold both the Spacebar
and the up-arrow keys down continuously. Eventually, it will be impaled on your
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11109

swords.

 Go back to Ria's Room to report in. She tells you about a dungeon key dropped
nearby. Make your way back to the Well Room, go right, and through the hole in
the hedge to the 3-Door Room. Go through the middle door, jump down, through the
door, and talk to the guard. Go left past the door to get the Dungeon Key, then
through the door you just passed into the Ceiling Trap Room. After Ria opens the
door for you, dash left into Ria's Room, heal, and talk to her again. Return to
the Purple Worm Room (via the secret door in the Well Bottom Room), dash right
to the top of the hill (you'll see more footprints leading that way), and use
the Dungeon Key to open the door. Enter the Dungeon Room, go down, and talk to
Ria's Uncle. He gives you the Shrine Key, but won't come with you.

 Leave him, and return to the Purple Worm Room. Go left and through the first
door you come to. When you take the Golden Pedestal, the door closes. Put the
Dungeon Key on the altar in its place to reopen the door, then leave. Go back to
Destru's Room, and enter the left-hand door (with the Shrine Key). Get the
Talisman, return to the 3-Door Room, and go through the right-hand door. Walk
all the way to the bottomless swamp. You'll automatically throw the Talisman
into the swamp. The Forest God rewards you with 500 EPs, and the quest is at an
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11112

end.

 Wander around the scenery, bumping into walls to find herbs, and climbing down
into the water in the Well Bottom Room to find the Fog Robe. Before leaving the
quest, you should have the following items in your inventory: Emerald Ring,
Diamond Staff, Shrine Key, and Fog Robe. Be sure to identify these items (use
APPRAISE on the "end of quest" menu). Sell the Key, and DIVIDE the remaining
items to your magic user. Make the decision of whether you want to keep the Fog
Robe or the standard Robe of Protection (which your magic user currently has).

 SORCERIAN is published by Nihon-Falcom and distributed by Sierra On-Line.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Barbara Baser. All rights reserved.
Last page !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11114




 SORCERIAN
   Part 3

 LUCIFER'S FLOODGATE

 Enter the first opening you come to (Powder Room) and get some White Powder.
You'll come back here two more times for white powder. The powder is used to
extinguish flames that are hiding one of the five swords you'll need in order to
solve this quest.

 Leave this room and head right. Go through the first door; as you go down the
stairs, touch the third lamp to learn about messages hidden in other lamps. Go
through the door at the bottom of the steps into the 3-Door Room, then through
the door to your right. Touch the extinguished lamp (second lamp down the
stairs) twice to remove a blockage in the Rod Room. Go back upstairs and through
the far left door. Fight your way across the bridge and go through the door.
Touch the second lamp down the stairs to get another clue.
Press <CR> for more !



CompuServe CIS:TEG-11115


 Heal up and go through the door at the bottom of the stairs. Save your game,
enter the water, and kill the two Kraken for 2,000 EPs. Exit the water (left),
then leap from island to island (above the lake) to get the Gabriel Sword (on
the fourth island). There's sage on the fifth island, and savory on the seventh.
There's nothing else further to the right. On the way out of this room, go to
the left wall to get lavender.

 Go upstairs, through the door, then hurry across the bridge (try to avoid the
mud being thrown by the Golems above you), and go to the wall to find lavender.
Enter the left door. After the battle with the Lizardmen, touch the second and
fifth lamps for clues. (You've already found the sword above the lake.) Now,
have your strongest character push the fourth rod to stop the waterfall. Leave
the room, go back across the bridge, and go through the far left door.

 Fight your way across the bridge to the third hole and enter it. Throw the
white powder on the flame to find the Rafael Sword. Exit, go back to the left,
across the bridge, through the door, up, and through the center door. Go up,
through the door, and all the way left back to the Powder Room for more white
powder. Exit, and go all the way right, past the door, and up the narrow crawl
Press <CR> for more !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11132

space. Examine the sword you find (it matches the Rafael Sword) again, to place
the Rafael Sword over it and open the door.

 Fight your way downstairs and through the door to another door with a sword
next to it. This sword matches the Gabriel Sword. Open and enter this door, then
examine the extinguished lamp on the staircase. When you do, you hear the sound
of something moving overhead. That's all you can do here for now. So, go back
upstairs, retrieving your sword as you go. Ah! A hidden door has been revealed;
go through it. Strange place, this, but it's sort of like one of those "slide
the block" puzzles. If you have CAPS LOCK on, turn it off so you can see the
entire room.

 It looks like you can only go a short distance, but if you stomp on the block
without a blinking light (press down-arrow), you'll see it will go down one
"square" for each stomp. Note the reaction of the other blocks in the room! Stop
three times to uncover the Silver Sword. Jump up the "stepping stones," go left,
and stomp on the first blinking stone to lower it. Now, you can exit the room.
Leave this area (up), and head all the way right to find lavender. (Remember to
take the Rafael Sword before you go back downstairs!)

 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11861

 Go back down to the main level, left, and through the door. Cross the bridge
and go through the far right door. Go upstairs (Troll Room), fight the trolls
(they looked like mummies to me), and put the Silver and Gabriel Swords in the
empty niche to open the door. Go through and throw powder on the fire. Return to
the Powder Room, get more white powder, and return to the Troll Room. Throw the
second handful of powder on the fire to find the Michael Sword. Take it, exit
the room, get your Silver and Gabriel Swords from the niche, and go back to the
3-Door Room.

 Go through the right door, all the way left, and place the Michael Sword in the
niche. Go through the door into another of those sliding-block puzzle rooms.
Turn off your CAPS LOCK key to see the entire room. Stomp the first non-blinking
block, then stomp on the second non-blinker. Go to the left, down the stepping
stones to the bottom, right to the wall, and push up on the non-blinker to
reveal the Crystal Sword. Go up, over, and down to get the Sword.

 To exit this room, go back down the center set of stepping stones, go left, and
push up on the far left blinker. Go up through the center steps, back to the
door, and exit. Take the Michael Sword from the niche, go all the way to the
left wall for some sage, then exit back to the 3-Door Room.
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11863


 Go through the middle door, up, and right. Go up the narrow crawl space, place
the sword to open the door, then go through the door, and use the swords to open
the other doors barring your progress. Work your way through the doors in this
manner until you come to Lucifer's Floodgate. Place the Silver Sword on the left
and the Crystal Sword on the right to open the gate.

 Take the Silver and Crystal Swords and exit, collecting your other swords as
you go. Now that the Floodgate is open, the monsters are quiet. Explore all
areas before leaving. Before ending the quest, make sure you have the following
items in your inventory: Rafael (6 Mars, 4 Saturn), Michael (7 Mars, 3 Saturn),
Gabriel (8 Mars, 2 Saturn), Crystal (6 Jupiter, 8 Sun), and Silver (7 Sun, 7
Venus) swords.

 THE CURSED OASIS

 Go to your right through the opening into the Desert of Pillars. Battle your
way across the desert to the opening and enter it. You wind up inside a well.
Don't wait around long, but exit the well to the left to find sage, then go
right into the tunnel. Go through the tunnel to the Castle's front, and through
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11869

the door.

 Start fighting immediately to get through the Berserkers. Wade through the
fountain (left), and go through the door on the lower level. You can't help the
girl yet, so go under her and through the door, across the screen, through the
other door, and down the stairs to your left to the Kitchen. Talk to Olvara;
don't go near her fire or you'll get a nasty burn.

 Go back upstairs, exit this entire area, fight the Berserkers, and go up to the
door on the upper level. Go through it, upstairs, and out the door to the
Walkway Room. On this long walkway is a number of doors. The first one leads to
the Upper Winch Room; the second leads to the Lower Winch Room. These winches
need to be turned to free the girl. Unfortunately, they're rusted tight; you'll
need oil to loosen them.

 Before entering the third door, heal. This door leads to a swamp which houses a
suspicious-looking dragon fountain, complete with statue. Wait around long
enough and both the dragon and statue come to life. Vanquish Ruwan and his
Golden Dragon for 1,500 EPs. That's all there is in this room; you'll never need
to come back. Go back to the Walkway Room and enter the fourth door.
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11871


 Go downstairs and through the door into the Piston Room. Avoid the "pistons,"
and make your way to the lower left-hand corner into the well. Go down to the
Ocula Room. These things are quite nasty. The free-floating pillars (baskets)
control the gates which lead to the other sections in the room. To use them, get
behind the pillar and stomp. If you can catch the oculas in the gates, that will
kill them; otherwise, just beat on them. Work your way through the room to the
upper left-hand corner, and go through the door into the Oil Room. (Don't go
through any of the lower openings, yet.)

 In the Oil Room, dash to the shelves; examine the jars which are the second
from the left to get the oil. Go back through the Ocula Room and make your way
back to the Walkway Room. Go to the Upper Winch Room and oil the winch connected
to the rope. Go back to the Oil Room for more oil, go to the Lower Winch Room,
and oil that winch. As you do, the winch begins to turn. While you're in this
area, return to the Oil Room for more oil; you'll need to oil two more times
before the quest ends.

 Return to the Kitchen (via the lower-level door in the Berserker yard) and talk
to Olvara to receive her thanks and a gift for freeing Riala. Heal, then go
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11876

right, and go through the door (under the stairs). Be very careful with these
poisonous snakes; if your characters become poisoned, they'll never heal (unless
you have a Cure potion with you).

 When you're past the snakes, enter the center door, fight the Berserkers, then
examine the jar. It's trapped, so be sure the front character has Trap
Knowledge. Examine the jar until you hear sliding block sounds, and you find
Savory. Leave (fight more snakes), and go through the right door. Cross the
walk, go through the door, and fight more snakes. Go through the center door
(even _more_ snakes!), and perform the same examination on this jar as you did
on the other. This time, you'll find Sage.

 Go back through the left-hand doors until you get back to the Kitchen, and go
back to the Walkway Room (via the upper-level door in the Berserker yard). Go
all the way left and you'll see the stones of the wall have moved inward,
opening up an alcove. When you enter the alcove, you'll see a jar. Upon
examination, you learn it's Holy Water.

 Go back to the Kitchen and talk to Olvara. She tells you to take it to Riala
who's at the Oasis (where the quest began). Leave the Castle (right), the
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11878

Courtyard (left), through the tunnel and Sandworms into the well (left), and
cross the Desert of Pillars (left) back to the Oasis. Give Riala the Holy Water.
When see looks at it, she tells you it's hydrochloric acid and gives it back to
you. Go back to the Kitchen and talk to Olvara again.

 She tells you to go back to the Oasis for some herbs which you are to bring to
her. Do so (Riala has the herbs). Olvara takes the herbs and tells you about a
magic barrier Ruwan has setup around the Oasis, and that burning the herbs
should remove it. This time, the "Oasis" being referred to is not the one where
Riala is, but is beyond where you found the acid.

 Go back to the Walkway Room, and walk to the far left. You'll see another set
of stones has moved inward (this is the barrier to which Olvara referred), and a
door within a room beyond the Alcove has been revealed. Go through the door, and
you'll be in the upper level of the Oil Room. Continue left and you're told a
wall with a keyhole blocks your way and that there are wedges at the top and
bottom of the door. Yes, back to Olvara, who tells you Ruwan hid the key in the
Desert of Pillars. Leaver her and go back to the Desert of Pillars. Go to the
tallest pillar (second to the left of the castle in the background). When you
examine it, you automatically pour the acid on the pillar, which dissolves into
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11880

a key.

 Go back to the Walkway Room, and go left to the wall. However, when you use the
key, the wall still won't open; must be those wedges! Go back to the Ocula Room.
Now open and close the gates until you can go through the right-hand exit at the
bottom. Go down and over through the door. Fight snakes, then go to the jar. You
will oil and turn it as you examine it. Doing this removes one of the wedges.
Leave and go back to the Oil Room, get more oil, then return to the Ocula Room.
This time, open and close the gates until you can go through the left-hand exit
at the bottom. Go down and over through the door, fight the Berserkers, then oil
this jar to remove the second wedge. Return to the upper level of the Oil Room.

 This time when you approach the wall (left), it will be gone. Continue left to
find real Holy Water. Then, return to the Oasis, and give the water to Riala to
end the quest. Be sure to examine the entire area before leaving.

 SORCERIAN is published by Nihon-Falcom and distributed by Sierra On-Line.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Barbara Baser. All rights reserved.
Last page !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11890




 SORCERIAN
   Part 4

 THE TOWER OF THIEVES

 Warning: Be sure to put CAPS LOCK on because these thieves are tough!

 Go right, through the door, and upstairs. Go through the right door, fight your
way up, and through the door. Go upstairs and through the second door. Go
upstairs and through the door. Go all the way to the right, through the door,
upstairs, and left through the first door. Go left and through the door. Walk
all the way left into the Chapel Room, and get the jug from the altar.

 Go right, through the door, right, down, and through the door. Go all the way
to the left, through the door, down, through the door, and right. Go down,
through the door, fight your way downstairs, and through the door. Then, go left
and through the Narrow Tower door. Go downstairs, right, and fill the jug with
Press <CR> for more !




CompuServe CIS:TEG-11891

wine. (You'll need to fill the jug two more times.)

 Exit the Wine Room (left and up), then go right, through the door, and up. Go
through the door, upstairs, left, and through the second door. Go upstairs,
through the door, right, and through the door. Go upstairs, left, through the
second door, up, and through the left-hand door into the Key Room. Hanging on a
pillar to the left of the man is a gray key (it's difficult to see); however, he
won't let you near it. Get him drunk; give him the wine. He asks for more, so
don't delay! Return to the Wine Room, fill the jug, and come back to the Key
Room. Give the man the second jug. It's still not enough, and he demands more!
Make one last wine run, and give him the third jug. That does the trick; after
he's asleep, get the key and leave this room (forever).

 Go through the right door into the 3-Door Room, right, and through the middle
door (there are three on this walkway) into Zorak's Room. In this room, talk the
man (Zorak...but he's really not; you'll learn this later on). Leave his room
and go right through the last door. Fight your way upstairs and through the
door. You have one more battle. When you go through the door, stay there; all
the thieves will congregate on the left side of the walkway. When you're ready,
go upstairs and fight your way through the right-hand door into the Elevator
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11894

Room. Talk to Oram. He won't let you ride...yet! Go back to Zorak's Room and
talk to him again. Return to Oram; this time he let's you ride.

 A word about the elevator. As it moves (up only), jump to the left or right to
access the various tower levels. Make sure your speed is relatively slow (3 or
higher) to make the jumps easier. If you miss, step off the elevator, fall down
a level, and try again.

 Get on the elevator and exit left just above the Elevator Room (you should
still see Oram on your screen). Fight the thief to gain his Pass. Leave his room
and just step to the right off the ledge. Don't get back on the elevator. Fall
down to the main level, go through the door, then through the left-hand door.
Show the guard your pass, through the left door, upstairs, and through the door
to the Ball Room. Embedded in the left pillar are red and blue balls. Take the
blue ball (you can't take both) and leave. Go back to the Elevator Room, ride up
one level, and exit to the left. Go through the door, downstairs, all the way
left, and down. These two jugs contain save, verbena, and lavender. Go up and
back to the Elevator.

 Now, it gets a little tricky. Jump on, then off to exit to the lower of the two
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11896

right-hand levels. Go all the way right, and talk to Kuore. He gives you a clue
about Zorak's odd behavior. Leave Kuore, get on the Elevator, and ride up one
more level. Exit to the lower of the two right-hand levels. Go right, upstairs,
and open the door with the blue ball. Enter and head right. You've found
Princess Zeyna, but she's afraid of you and won't talk. Leave her, return to the
Ball Room, replace the blue ball, and take the red. Leave (right, down, right),
and go through the door (on the guard's level).

 Go down, through the door, and down. Go through the door, all the way right,
and through the door. Go down, through the door, and left (you'll fall to the
next level down). Go through the door, left, through the door, down, and through
the door. Go left (you'll fall to the next level down again), through the door,
and down. Go through the door, down, left, and through the door. Go down,
through the door, right, and open the gate with the red ball.

 Go over and talk to the Baron. After he dies, leave, take the red ball, and
return to the Ball Room. Replace the red ball, take the blue, and go back to
Princess Zeyna's Room. This time, she talks to you (because you've been to see
the Baron), and she gives you the Pendant. Suddenly, into the room comes Zorak!
(But is he really?) Before you can react, the floor opens beneath your feet and
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11906

you find yourself falling.

 Down, down you plunge into the strange realm beneath the Tower into a
subterranean lake (Lake Room). Leave the lake (left), and go through the
opening. Continue all the way left through the last hole, then left again
through the opening. Go right, through the hole, and down. A fierce Shadow
Dragon awaits you! Whack it with your swords for 2,000 EPs, then go left, up,
and through the hole.

 Go over to this contraption, stand on the right-hand block, and stomp to make
the upper block rise. (You'll find out why, soon.) Leave here, go all the way
right, and down into the water (watch out for the killer Gar!). Take the right
fork (not the downward one), down at the next intersection, exit the water, and
go left. Go through the hole, then right down into another of the lake's
tributaries. This water is either acidic or poisonous because your characters
start losing hit points. Dash down, right, and up to Zorak's Island and his
final resting place. Examine his bones and you learn of his door puzzle: "From
where the sun sets, one land, three skies coming together opens the door."

 Here on his island is another of those contraptions (like the one the Shadow
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11911

Dragon was guarding). Stand on each of the blocks and stop to make each of the
upper platforms rise. Return to Zorak's bones to find the Mark. (The "one land"
refers to the left-hand stone block in the other room remaining down; the "three
skies" refers to the other blocks being raised to the "skies.")

 Exit the island to the right (more poisonous water), dash down, right, and up
to the last room in the door puzzle. (If you didn't put the platforms in the
proper order, you would have been stopped by the currents from getting here.)

 The "shelf" in this room is useless. Stand on the lower block and stop to raise
the upper platform. Now, let's go find out what we've opened up. Go back to the
Island, exit to the left, dash down, left, up, and out. Go up and through the
hole, right, and down into the water. Go down, left, up, and left at the fork.
Go down at the intersection, left, down, left, and up. You'll automatically
float to the top.

 Exit the water, go through the door at the top, all the way left, up, and talk
to the Wizard. Even though you've solved the puzzle, he demands the Pass. Give
it to him (you'll get another from Kuore). Enter the water and follow it until
you're sucked upward and spat out into the wine fountain (whew!).
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11913


 Go back to the Elevator Room and ride it back to Kuore's Room (up one level and
off at the first right). Talk to him and he'll give you another Pass. (Be sure
to tell him you'll help!) Leave his room and make your way to the Chapel Room
where you found the jug on the altar. You'll find a guard's been posted here.
Show him your new pass and go left into the Chapel. Inside, it appears a
wedding's in progress. When you approach the couple, you learn the false Zorak
is about to marry Zeyna. The chapel becomes dark, and the Princess and Zorak
disappear. Talk to the remaining man in the chapel, the leave.

 Go back to the Elevator Room and take it to the top level. Go up, through the
door, up, through the door, and left through the upper door. Go all the way left
to the Widow's Walk where you find Zorak and Zeyna. Talk to him, and he finally
reveals himself as a Major Demon, and demands that you give him the Pendant.
Suddenly, he transforms from Zorak into his true appearance, and begins to
assault you with magic. Leave and go back to Kuore's Room. Kuore tells you the
only thing which will defeat the demon is the Garateen, a holy sword carved with
sacred runes, and that it comes from Zorak's and Zeyna's home country. The
Garateen can be found in the underground on Zorak's Island.

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11918

 To return to the underground, go to the right-hand level just above Kuore's
Room via the Elevator, go through, and through the door. Talk to the sleeper.
After he finishes, walk to the right wall. When you touch it, it pushes away
revealing a passage. Walk all the way right, and you'll find a breach in the
floor. Jump into the gap and you'll be back underground.

 (Note: If you play through this quest a second time and have the Garateen sword
in your inventory, you will not need to return to Zorak's Island to get another
one unless you want to get a second (or third!) to give to your other fighters.)

 After you have the Garateen, return to the Widow's Walk to do battle with the
demon. The best strategy is to stand still, jump in place continuously, and use
the Spacebar to fight. After the battle, talk to Zeyna, give her the Pendant,
and get 2,000 EPs. Return to the lower level of the Tower and exit left to end
the quest. Before leaving make sure you have the Garateen in your possession.

 THE MASTER OF THE DARK MARSH

 Don't stand still for too long, or the zombies will get you. Talk to the woman
in the doorway. Tell her you'll help, then go right, and enter the first hole.
Press <CR> for more !
CompuSorve CIS:TEG-11924

Go down to the left and over to the chest to find three herbs. Go back up to the
hole, leap out, go right, and fall into the second hole. Work your way right and
down to the chest for three more herbs. Leave this room, and go right through
the hole in the hedge. (If you inadvertently take the Wolfsbane or Mandragora,
put it back or Leeza won't talk to you.)

 In the Water Caverns, the bubbles will take your hit points, so don't stand
around. Go down and through the first door. Go right and through this door. Go
left, jumping over the moving pillars, and enter Leeza's Room. Talk to her until
she accepts your help. Tell her you'll get the cauldron and she'll tell you
where it is. Then, she'll warn you of zombies. Leave her and go back (right)
into the Water Caverns.

 Go all the way right as far as you can. Pass the trees and the door to reach
the Old Castle Ruins. Continue right until you see an odd pillar which appears
to be hanging suspended and attached to another pillar. When you see it, jump on
the pillar which is in the ground. Just _barely_ move to the right and jump to
find the cauldron. Fighting as you go, return to Leeza's Room. Go left and put
the cauldron in the fireplace. Then, go talk to Leeza to learn what ingredients
are required for the potion.
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11926


 Leave her and go back to the Water Caverns. Go to the lower level and open the
chest to get the Mandragora. Then, go to the upper door (right above you), and
enter it. Go up to the chest above you and get the Wolfsbane. Return to Leeza's
Room, put the two herbs into the pot, and go back to the Water Caverns. Go all
the way left until you're outside again. Follow the directions carefully because
it gets a little tricky.

 Go left until you see the guard. (Talk until he says, "What do you think you're
doing?" Greet each guard you see until they say something about being sick.) Go
through the center, go left twice, go through the center twice, go right threT
times, down twice, right, and talk to the sick guard. Leave to the left, then
come back (he'll be gone). Go right to get the Bloodstone.

 Go left twice, center twice, left three times, down, left, down twice, left
twice, and talk to the sick guard. Leave to the right, then come back. Go left
to get the Moonstone. Return to the Water Caverns by going right three times,
center twice, right, down twice, right, center, right, down, and right all the
way back.

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11933

 Once you're back in the Water Caverns, go all the way right to the first tree,
and insert the Moonstone in the hole. Next, go right to the next tree, and
insert the Bloodstone in the hole. Come back (left) to the door (which will now
open), and enter it. Jump to get the beehive. Leave the room, take both stones,
and return to the Water Caverns.

 One thing left to do before the potion can be brewed. Go up and left to the
door, enter it, then go right and through that door. Go left, through the next
door, then right to the pillar. Jump to get the Jack's Flame. Now, head right
again to confront Fragiore. Accept his challenge to fight the Red Dragon. Beat
on it with your swords until it turns to stone, cracks into little pieces, and
disappears. Now, you're ready to free Leeza from Fragiore's spell.

 Return to Leeza's Room. Put the hive in the pot, then talk to her. Go back to
the pot and place the Jack's Flame under it. After the fire's going, talk to
Leeza again. Now, go to the fire, get the pot, and give it to Leeza. She takes a
sip and is transformed to her former self. When she leaves, go back to the Water
Caverns, go left, through the door, left, through the door, and all the way left
to collect your reward and end the quest. Before ending the quest, make sure you
have the following items in your inventory: Coin of Joy, Moonstone, and
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-11935

Bloodstone.

 SORCERIAN is published by Nihon-Falcom and distributed by Sierra On-Line.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Barbara Baser. All rights reserved.
Last page !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11937




 SORCERIAN
   Part 5

 THE DRAGON KING

 Note 1: Only three characters may participate in this quest.

 Note 2: You must have a Fortune-Teller and a Doctor (or Nurse) in your party.
If your current character roster can't take accept these jobs, you'll need to
create a character who can. (I had two wizards and one of my seasoned fighters
in the party; the second wizard was a new character I created for this quest
only.)

 Go left, through the door, talk to the King's brother, then leave. Put your
Doctor in the lead, then go through the fourth door to the right into the Temple
(the other doors are barred or locked). Talk to the man who tells you he has the
sickness. Talk to him again to heal him. He tells you to bring Lili to him when
Press <CR> for more !






CompuServe CIS:TEG-11938

you find her. (I was never able to do this.) Leave, go right, and enter the big
white building. Talk to the man until he gives you the Wise Man's Cane.

 Put your Fortune-teller in the lead, leave, go up the hill (right) and into the
water. Jump on the blocks in this order: center, left, and right. Go down the
hill and left into the hole. Talk to the man who opens the door to Lili's Room
for you. Enter, go down, right, up the ladder, back to the left, and talk to
Lili. After you purify the water, she gives you the Golden Key. Put your Doctor
back in front, and leave by going all the way right, through the wall, and up
the well. Jump right at the top of the well to exit.

 Continue right and enter the white building. Talk to the man who gives you Tree
Medicine. Leave and go right across the bridge. With the exception of Vadis and
his underground creatures, you won't kill anything; when you hit something, it
changes (briefly) back to human form, and bounces away.

 Head right and go into the first opening (not a door) you see. Go down the
ladder, all the way left, and up the left-most ladder. Go to the pig and talk to
it. It takes the Tree Medicine and reverts back to Prince Frederick. He gives
you the Scroll. That's all you need down here. Go through the door. Go all the
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-11960

way right, down the hill, and turn left. Walk to the wall. It crumbles at the
touch of the Wise Man's Cane. Go left and into the hole. Go right to the red
gate. The Golden Key shines on the gate, and it opens to reveal Bibi, Lili's
sister. After she leaves, exit this cave and return to Lili's Room.

 Lili tells you to come back to her after you talk to the people at the Temple.
So, leave and go back to the Temple (all the way left back into the town area).
When the priest sees you have Lili's Key, he gives you the Hermit's Robe. Go
back to Lili who will enchant the robe for you.

 Leave and go all the way right as far as you can. Jump over the volcano for
now, go to the wall to find some hyssop, then enter the door. Talk to the King.
When he sees the robe you have with you, the madness leaves him, and he tells
you where Serina is. The citizens he enchanted are once again themselves.

 Go right, through the door, down the ladder, and all the way right to find some
lavender. Then, go up the ladder, fight your way to the wall, and touch it with
the scroll. At its touch, the wall collapses. Go right, down the ladder, and
left through the hole. Go down and all the way to right to the gate. As you
reach it, the door opens, and Serina steps forth. (Note that Serina will join
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12331

your party, has hit points, and items in her possession. Don't get her killed
off!) Take her back to the King, then take her back into town to the Castle
where her father waits. He gives you gold and EPs, and Serina gives you her
necklace. The father tells you about the cane being used to build bridges, and
about a fabulous sword called Dragonslayer.

 Leave Serina and her father, and go back to talk to the King. He tells you
where Vadis is. Leave him, go right, and jump into the volcano. Because you have
the robe, you survive the lava's heat. Travel down, right, and up out of the
lava.

 Go down the stairs and right into the chasm (don't talk to the man, yet). At
the bottom, jump right and go to the wall to find some savory. Go left across
the lava, take the stairs to the "stone pipe," and go down. Talk to the man who
gives you the Dragonslayer sword. Go up the pipe, go right, and up the pipe
(just left of the lava).

 Now, go talk to the man and let him transform the cane into a bridge. Put your
characters with the highest hit points at the front and back; sandwich the
character with the lowest hit points in between them. Heal completely, and if
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12333

you have a magic user with a Heal spell, turn it on!

 Jump, go across the bridge (right), and battle Vadis. The strategy to beat
Vadis is to hit its last end-section. As Dragonslayer hits an end, it dissolves.
Keep hitting until it's completely gone. Go right to find some savory, then go
back to the man and get the cane back. Return to the King for your end-of-quest
reward.

 Before ending the quest, you should have the following items in your inventory:
Wise Man's Cane (3 Jupiter, 4 Mercury, 1 Venus), Hermit's Robe (4 Jupiter, 2
Saturn, 2 Moon, 1 Venus), Golden Key, Scroll, Necklace (2 Jupiter, 2 Sun, 2
Moon, 2 Venus), Dragonslayer, and the Sacred Shield (6 Jupiter, 2 Moon). Note: I
was never able to locate the Potion of Longevity mentioned in the documentation.

 RIDDLE OF THE RED JEWEL

 Before organizing your party for this quest, I strongly suggest you have a lot
of Cure potions or a magically-charged item with the Cure spell on it. There are
several extremely poisonous insects and snakes in this adventure. Also, during
the quest, do not look for the hidden herbs while you're playing. Instead,
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12335

search for them after you've found and healed the Red Jewel. There is a lot of
arcade action in this adventure involving the "dash-jump" maneuver. When I refer
to it, hold down the shift key and the up-arrow key at the same time to jump off
the logs. I will tell you which direction (left or right) to move after the jump
has been executed.

 Go right, up the stairs, all the way right, and enter the hole in the tree.
Now, go left, up, and to the left edge of the log (do not go through the hole
yet). Save your game, dash-jump to the left, and try to land in the bird's nest
below you (Nest Room). (If you miss, restore, and try again.) Now, dash-jump
from the Nest Room to the right, to land on the unconnected log where the hut
is. Enter the hut and talk to the person inside to receive the Fairy Tears.

 Exit the hut, go right, upstairs, and insert the Tears in the pipe (it looks
like a periscope) to make the Elves' Bridge solid. Go right, dash-jump right,
cross the bridge to the right, and retrieve the Tears from the pipe. Go right
through the tree hole, left, and up the blue "elevator" (Elevator Room) to the
level above the inaccessible hut.

 Go left, up the stairs to the Dark Elves Room, and go right. Insert Tears,
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12337

cross the bridge, enter the hut to learn about the scales, leave, and go through
the tree hole. Dash-jump to the left across the bridge, upstairs, and through
the tree hole at the left to the Scales Room. You can't do anything with the
scales just yet. Go up the left stairs, dash-jump to the right, and fall down
past the two right-hand logs back to the Dark Elves Room. Go downstairs (left)
to the left edge of the log. Dash-jump to the right, then immediately change
direction to the left to land on the level with a door and a hut directly below
it.

 Heal completely, go left, and enter the door. Kill the silkworms, then leave.
Go left, and dash-jump right to the next level down. If you miss the log, go
through the tree hole to get back there. Now, go through the previously closed
door, and talk to Teto to get the letter. Leave the hut, go all the way right,
and jump down to ground level. Go all the way right, up the stairs, and "stomp"
on the fifth step to go down into that grassy-looking strip.

 Go right and talk to the person guarding the machinery. When he sees the
letter, he lets you go to the lever. Go right and touch the lever to turn off
the blue "elevator." Leave the Machinery Room, go all the way back left, up, all
the way right through the hole, left, through the hole, right across the bridge,
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12340

down, right, and jump-dash over the missing bridge.

 Go through the hole and left into the hut. Talk to the person to learn about
the location of additional Tears (birds' nests), then leave. Go to the left edge
of the log and fall straight down. Go into the hut and approach the person.
You'll automatically be shooed out and deposited outside a tree hole. Go back to
the Nest Room, get the Tears you find, and go back to the Machinery Room to turn
the elevator back on.

 Go back to the Dark Elves Room, right to the middle of the bridge, and enter
the hole in the foliage (about midway across the bridge). Talk to the person who
tells you how to get the Jewel. Leave and go to the Scales Room. Heal
completely, then enter the right-hand door. Kill the moth (jump on the tallest
of those pistoning logs), heal up, and leave. As you leave the room, the
left-hand weight lowers. Enter the left-hand door and get the Red Jewel.

 Return to the Dark Elves Room, go to the edge of the log at the bottom of the
stairs (left), dash-jump to the right, then fall straight down through the
bridge at the right to land on the log with the hut, and enter it. This time,
when you approach the person, he opens the door to the Sacred Fountain room for
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-12342

you. Enter the room, go down, and enter the water. When you do, the Red Jewel is
healed and turns yellow.

 Leave this hut and head all the way left to end the quest. Reminder: Search for
the herbs. The ones I found were all on the ground level and were all detected
by jumping while moving left and right. Before ending the quest, make sure you
have the following in your inventory: Fairy Tears, Letter, and the Yellow Jewel.
Give the Jewel to the King if you want, or divide it to your magic user, and
have the Town Elder turn on the spell it contains: Become Air.

 SORCERIAN is published by Nihon-Falcom and distributed by Sierra On-Line.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Barbara Baser. All rights reserved.
Last page !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12344




 SORCERIAN
   Part 6

 THE DARK MAGICIAN

 You are limited to three party members in this quest, but you don't have to
include special occupations (see "The Dragon King").

 Go right from the Main Room and go through the door. Go downstairs, and through
the door. Dash right, go through the door into the Demon Room, go right, and
through this door. Now, go all the way right to where the trail dips downward.
Stand directly over the supporting pillar (directly below you), and go up to
enter the hidden door.

 Walk over to the front of the first blue grate and search to find the Dungeon
Keys. Enter this blue grate and search in the upper-left corner of the room for
another hidden door. Enter it and take the Moon Stone. Go through the left door,
Press <CR> for more !




CompuServe CIS:TEG-12345

up, and through the door back to the upper level of the Main Room. Go left, jump
down, go all the way right, and enter the door into the Pedestal Room. Place the
Moon Stone on the right holder.

 Leave the Pedestal Room, go left, and through the door back to the Demon Room.
Go right, through the door, and this time, go all the way right across the
bridge. Jump to the upper level, enter the door at the right end, and go through
the left-hand blue grate to find Orsa. Talk to him, and he will join your party.
Immediately equip his Saint's Robe.

 Leave his cell and go right through the second blue grate. This cell only
contains a clue about the Gold Pillars (not those in the Demon Room, though), as
does the other cell (next to the one where you found the hidden door). Exit the
Dungeon Area (for good) and return to the Pedestal Room.

 Orsa knows spells of teleportation which involve the Moon and Star Stones. So,
stand in the stone arch (between the pedestals) to travel to the Garbug Room.
Dash right across the lava, enter the door, and take the Star Stone. Go through
the right door, stand between the pillars, and "stomp." Now, you can exit the
area via the right door or go back to the Pedestal Room the same way you got
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12348

here; for now, go through the right door, head left, and go into the Giant
Snakes Room. Dash left, through the door, and enter the Column of Light Room.

 Stand in the light to rise to the top, then step off to the right. (Note: If
you bump your head at the top of the Column, you'll loose HPs.) The door at the
top returns you to the left side of the Demon Room. Return to the Main Room
(right and through the door), and go back to the Pedestal Room.

 Place the Star Stone in the empty holder, heal completely, and enter the stone
arch once more. Go right (you can use the "islands" if you want), and as you
pass the third island, the Blue Dragon attacks! Try to get onto one of the
islands, jump in place, and stab at it with your swords. After the battle, go
right to get the Steel Sword, then return to the Pedestal Room. Take the Moon
Stone, enter the arch, and touch the loose stone to lower the pillars. Go left
to find savory, then return to the Pedestal Room. Replace the Moon Stone, take
the Star Stone, and enter the arch.

 Dash across the lava, enter the door, and return to the Demon Room. (After
lowering the two pillars, you can't get back to the Demon Room via the Main
Room.) Hm, some alterations have been made since your last visit. Go up the
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12350

stairs, enter the door, and go right to find the Sun Stone. (Read the tablet on
the way. It contains a clue about how to exit after the quest is over.)

 Return to the Demon Room, go right, and through the door. Go across the bridge,
and through the door at the right end of the lower level. Go down, through the
door, and battle your way to the door at the right. Heal, enter the door, and
confront Ghedis (he's easy with Orsa's help). After Orsa leaves, go back and
search for herbs in the cavern walls, then return to the upper level to the
right of the bridge. Go to the low point and exit through the hidden door. Enter
the first cell, go through the door in there, go left, up, left, and down to the
Main Room. Before leaving take: Star Stone, Moon Stone, Sun Stone, Dungeon Keys,
and Steel Sword. (8 Mars, 1 Jupiter, 6 Sun, 2 Venus: It has the Sun Ray spell on
it; have the Elder activate it.)

 THE CURSED SHIP

 Another three-member limitation in this quest. Make sure you have a character
with at least 20 Vitality.

 Enter the ship (through the door) and talk to the Captain to learn what's
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12352

happening. We'll take care of getting Joshua off the ship, first. Go all the way
left, down the hatch, downstairs into the Upper Crew Level, and left through the
door. This is Lucas's Room. Talk to him, leave, go left through the gap in the
bulkhead and to go left through the door. This is Jeremiah's Room. Talk to him,
leave, go back right through the bulkhead, all the way right, and through the
door on the lower level at the far right side.

 Go down and through the door to the Lower Crew Level. Go left, down the ladder,
left, down the next ladder, and left into Jacob's Room. Go to the desk, read the
diary, and get the Hatchway Key. Leave Jacob's Room, go right, up the ladder,
and work your way left to the upper level of the Lower Crew Level. The last of
the rooms you need to visit is Ezekiel's. The door to his room has a barrel on
either side of it. Talk to him, then exit Ezekiel's Room and return to the Main
Deck (topside).

 Go to the middle mast and climb it to the very top. Night should occur
immediately; if it doesn't, you missed one of the crew's rooms. Return to all
four rooms to make sure you've hit them all before you go back up to the top of
the middle mast. As soon as night falls, go to the left side of the mast's top
cross-beam to receive a light from St. Elmo's Fire. (It doesn't show up in your
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12354

inventory, but it does seem to make your characters glow with light.) After you
receive the light, go back down to the Main Deck, then make your way back down
to the door which leads into Jacob's Room.

 Go all the way right, up the ladder, and through the door to your left. Go
down, through the door into Door Room One. Work your way down to the lowest
level and go right. Climb up and over to the top right side and continue right
into Door Room Two. Go right down, over to the door, and enter it. Go up,
through the door, and into the Aft Room. Go up, through the door on the middle
level, and all the way left to talk to Joshua. Go back to the Aft Room, up, and
through the door on the top level at the left into the Two Barrel Room (so named
because there are two barrels here that may be examined). Go down, left through
the door into the Ghostly Room. (I haven't found anything which will protect you
from the ghosts, yet.)

 Climb to the upper left-hand exit and go left. In the next room, go through the
lowest level's exit to the left, and continue on the lower level to the left
until you reach the Macaw's Room (watch the rats!). Go up to the bird. As you
make a grab for it, it flies away. Return to the Main Deck, climb the mast at
the far right, and dash-jump left to the middle mast's cross-beam to get the
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-12357

Macaw.

 Return to the Aft Room and take the bird to Joshua. He decides he should go
ashore and joins your party. Return to the Main Deck, go talk to the Captain;
then, take Joshua ashore, and return to the ship. Tell the Captain you'll help
solve the murder. Now, go back and visit all the crew's rooms again. Lucas's
will be locked, but you'll find him loitering outside Jeremiah's door.
Jeremiah's not feeling just right, and Ezekiel's lost his axe. After leaving
Ezekiel's Room, return to the Main Deck, and climb the middle mast to the top
again. You find Jeremiah's on watch.

 Now, go back down to the Lower Crew Level, and enter Jacob's Room to catch
Lucas snooping. When he leaves, return to the Upper Crew Level, go to the right,
and down to the lowest level in this area. Enter the door on the left which was
previously locked: This is your party's room. When you enter the room, you
should hear a sound. Leave the room, and return to the Two Barrel Room where you
find Ezekiel waiting. Talk to him, then return to Door Room One where you find
Jeremiah, dead, and take his Desk Key.

 Working your way all the way left via the upper levels, go to the Hidden Door
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-12359

Room. Go to and examine the one barrel sitting atop a crate to find the secret
door. Enter it, and fight all the rats while working your way up and right to
the bloody axe. Take it, then return to Jeremiah's body, go through the door,
and return to Ezekiel's Room. Talk to him, leave, and go to Jeremiah's Room. Go
to his desk and read his diary.

 Return to the Main Deck and talk to the Captain. Tell him you found the killer
(keep answering "Yes") until he tells you to return to your room. Go down the
first hatch you see (left), down the stairs, left, and through the door into
your quarters. As you enter the room, the ship sets sail, shakes, and you find
yourself tossed ashore on a grassy island. Go right to the shrine. Continue
right where you find Lucas who warns you to leave. Head all the way left where
you find Lucas once more. He's badly hurt; talk to him, take his Cabin Key, and
return to the ship (through the hole in the hedges). Go to Lucas's room and
search his desk to find an Auger. Take it and return to the Two Barrel Room. On
your way, you find a bloody, dying Ezekiel. Talk to him to learn what he saw.
After he dies, continue to the Two Barrel Room. Go to the top left-hand barrel
and examine it to get the Holy Water.

 Return to where the "Captain" waits and confront him. After you sprinkle the
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-12361

Holy Water on him, he regains his senses, but you hear something evil calling
from the island. Go back to the island, head right, and do battle with the
Archdemon. He looks nasty, but he's easy. After the battle, return to the
Captain and talk to him. He thanks you, then asks if you'll climb up the mast to
see why the sail won't open. Climb the left mast and jump on the cross-beam to
free the sail. Climb down, go right, and you find the Golden Bottle. Return to
the Captain, exit the ship, and go left to end the quest.

 Note: Nothing you find in this quest can be divided among your characters, not
even the Golden Bottle (it has four charges of every god on it). So, give it to
the King for 1,000 extra EPs (or sell it for 145 gold pieces). Also, I found no
herbs in this quest.

 SORCERIAN is published by Nihon-Falcom and distributed by Sierra On-Line.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Barbara Baser. All rights reserved.
Last page !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12364




 SORCERIAN
   Part 7

 GARDEN OF THE GODS

 This quest is limited to three characters. Go right and enter the first door
(Wine Shop). Talk to the merchant, then leave. Enter the next shop (General
Store) and talk to this man. Exit, continue right, and enter the next door. It's
an empty house, but the right wall has verbena. Leave, enter the last door to
the right and take the Red Seed in the right corner.

 Exit, go all the way right (past the temple; you can't do anything here, yet),
go up the hill, and through the hole (Blue Mountains). Don't stand around too
long, but dash right and through the hole (Black Mountains). This is another
place in which you don't want to tarry. Dash all the way right, go through the
hole, and approach the gatekeeper. As you do, he tells you that you can't go any
closer because you're mortals. But he seems to be thirsty. If you could find
Press <CR> for more !





CompuServe CIS:TEG-12365

some wine....

 Go all the way left back to the Wine Shop and talk to the merchant. Luckily, he
found a bottle of wine. Take it and go back to the gatekeeper. Now that his
thirst is quenched, he lets you through the gate. Stand in the sparkling curtain
and ascend to the porch. Don't stand here too long or you'll be hit by the
shooting stars. Go right, through the portal, and continue right into Zeus's
Chambers. When he sees you, he growls about uninvited guests, summons a
whirlwind, and tosses you out.

 Go left to the Black Mountains. As you go, you drop the Red Seed. Leave to the
right, then come back; the seed has sprouted. Do this once more, and soon, a
vine worthy of climbing rises before you. Climb the vine up to the first porch,
exit to the left, and go visit Dionysus. He, too, seems thirsty, and asks that
you bring him a tribute the next time you visit him. Return to the vine and
climb up to the next two porches. Exit to the right (leave the left for later),
enter the door, and talk to Hephaestos. He sends you on an errand to Apollo.

 Go back to the vine, climb up to the last two porches, and exit to the left
(leave the right for later) to visit Apollo. When he learns that Hephaestos sent
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12368

you, he gives you the Seed of Flame, then asks a favor: to find out what
Aphrodite (whom he loves) wants. Go back to Hephaestos and give him the Seed of
Flame. He rewards you with a bottle of his Golden Wine. Take the wine and return
to Dionysus. He takes the wine and tells you that Aphrodite longs for the red
fruit which grows on the vine.

 Go to the vine, climb down, and get the red fruit. Go back to Apollo and give
him the fruit. He gives you some gold and tells you how Zeus might be appeased.
Now, go see Aphrodite (on the right side of this level). She tells you about the
harp and needing someone to play it. Go back to the vine, climb down one level,
and exit to the left. Go all the way left and you find Anna. Talk to her and she
joins your party. Return to Aphrodite. When you tell her about Anna, you get the
harp.

 Return to the vine, go back down to the ground level, and return to Zeus. Anna
immediately begins to play. Talk to Zeus to receive his thanks. He tells you
about Adana stealing his Bracelet, which is what had angered him so.

 Go back to the General Store and talk to the man. Then, go to the Wine Shop and
speak to the wine merchant. Suddenly, the wine merchant disappears, and in his
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12370

place is the Shrine Maiden, Adana! She transports you to the top of a mountain
and attacks you. Go to the tallest peak to kill her. When you do, Zeus's
Bracelet falls into your hand. After you've retrieved the bracelet, you find
yourself back in the Wine Shop. Talk to the merchant for 10 gold coins. Go to
the General Store for another 10 gold coins.

 Now, exit, go right, and enter the Temple. It's too dark for you to see, but
gradually, your eyes become accustomed to the darkness, and you see a bag of 100
gold coins in the right corner.

 At this point, the quest can be ended. You have the option of returning the
bracelet to Zeus for 200 gold coins and 50 EPs; or, you can take it with you (it
contains the Barrier Spell). In the Blue Mountains, you should find a Shield
with 4 Jupiter enchantments (in a ravine just to the right of the door). There's
also hyssop growing in these mountains. Search the flowerpots on the gods'
porches for verbena. After you've explored, exit the quest by going all the way
left.

 THE CAVERNS OF ICE

 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12372

 Enter the door in the facade into the Icicle Room, go right, and through the
door into the First Polar Room. Go through the left door, down, and through the
door into the Second Polar Room. Go through the right door into the Angel Room,
and through the door at the bottom of the stairs into the Cell. Talk to both
prisoners for clues to the puzzles Sukoram has placed on the doors. Return to
the Second Polar Room, go through the left door, down, and enter the Lever Room.
You'll see something twinkling on the pillar above the door. Go up and get the
Lever.

 Now, go all the way left to the pile of bones to get a clue about the doors in
the Lettered Doors Room: "C thrice...B twice...A once." Return to the Angel Room
and get the letter "A." Then, return to the Icicle Room, dash all the way left,
and enter the door into the Hell Room. Go to the first "L" and replace it with
the "A" to "heal hell." Go back to the First Polar Room, go through the right
door, down, and into the Demon Room. Fight the killer snakes and go left. Enter
the water, do down, around, and up to the God Room. Exit the water, go left,
through the door, down, and enter the door into the Lettered Doors Room.

 Go left and enter the "C" door; go right and enter "C"; go right and enter "C."
Now, go right until you loop back to the "B" door, and enter it; go left and
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12374

enter "B" once more. Finally, go right, and enter the "A" door. You should be in
the Refrigerant Room. (If you're not, go back through the door, and try again.)
Walk to the pipe going into the ground and use the Lever to turn off the gas
fueling the refrigeration unit. Exit, then go back through the same door ("A"),
and return to the Demon Room.

 Go back to the Icicle Room and go right. You'll see three frozen waterfalls.
Use them as stepping stones to get to the upper level and go through the door.
Go down and enter the Evoke Room. Jump up and touch the "V" to open a secret
door (don't enter it yet!) Go through the right door into the Blast Room and
talk to Kahzeh. To free him you'll need to change the "Blast" to "Bless."

 Go back to the Evoke Room, take the last "E" from the word, return to the Blast
Room, and place the "E" where the "A" is. Now, go right, through the door, and
battle Sokuram. You'll need to use the waterfalls to rise high enough to kill
him (he's the one with the hammer and lightning bolts). After the battle, go
right, and take the letter "S" from the word. Return to the Blast Room and place
the "S" where the "T" is to free Kahzeh from his prison. As a reward, you
receive the Tears of Wind from him.

 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12376

 Go right and through the door into Ekim's Room. He's easy to beat. After you
do, the quest is over. Return to the Demon Room, enter the water, and search the
walls for the Shield. Then, return to the bones in the Lever Room to find the
Armor. Return to the Icicle Room, exit through the middle door, and go left to
end the quest. The Armor has 9 Jupiters; the Shield has 6 Jupiters and 2 Suns.
Give the Tears of Wind to the king for 400 extra EPs.

 THE CURSE OF MEDUSA

 This quest is limited to three characters. Go right and enter each of the three
houses. The first has a fireplace, the second is empty, and the third has herbs
stored in the right-hand cupboard. At the end of the quest, the fireplace in the
first house will contain a valuable treasure.

 Exit the last house, go right past the stone people, continue right over the
bridge, and go down into the hole you find (it's a depression in the grass). Go
left until you see Medusa. Immediately, go right, take the Mirror Shield, and
continue right to the rope. Go up the rope, exit, and talk to Anna, who joins
your party. Go back to the stone people and examine the one standing by himself
to the left of the mine entrance. This is Anna's master; she takes the Antidote
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-12378

from him.

 Now, go into the mine entrance, and go right until you see Medusa. Again, as
soon as you see her, go left and exit the mine. Go right, across the bridge, and
you should see a knothole in a tree. Enter the knothole and talk to all the
people you see down there. Exit, go right, and back down into the hole in the
ground. Go left, and this time when you see Medusa, dash-jump over her to get
into the newly opened mine tunnel. Go left to the jar and get the Blue Cord.

 Go back to the right, dash-jump over Medusa again, and continue right, up the
rope, and out. Go right to where the stones are piled around the tree on the
riverbank, and throw the Blue Cord into the water to get your weapons' power
increased. You're now ready to battle Medusa.

 Go back down into the mine, find Medusa, and kill her. After the battle, go all
the way left to exit the mine, and talk to the girl standing where Anna's master
was. She tells you that he's gone into the mountains to look for Anna. Go all
the way left as if to end the quest. As you do, Anna will leave your party.
Continue left; suddenly, Medusa's live head comes flying at you! To kill her
once and for all, stand in place (do not jump), face left, and attack with your
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-12381

swords. When she finally dies, her head is severed, turned to stone, and dropped
at your feet. You take the head automatically.

 Return to the mine where you fought Medusa, go all the way right to the rope,
and search the right-hand wall for the Armor. Go up the rope, jump to the left
(into the bushes on the next screen), and get the Laurel Rod. Finally, exit the
mine, go all the way left, and enter the house with the fireplace. Search the
fireplace to find the Ring of Power. Exit all the way left to end the quest.
Give Medusa's Head to the king, sell the Mirror Shield, and equip your party
with the Armor (contains the Resurrect Spell, 10 Jupiters, 2 Suns, and 2
Venuses), the Ring of Power (contains the Turn Spell, 7 Jupiters, 6 Suns, and 1
Moon), and the Laurel Rod (contains the Bolt Spell, 1 Mars, 3 Jupiters, 1 Sun,
and 7 Mercuries).

 SORCERIAN is published by Nihon-Falcom and distributed by Sierra On-Line.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Barbara Baser. All rights reserved.
Last page !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12383




 SORCERIAN
   Part 8

 THE MISSING MAGICIAN

 Go right through the spinning stone columns and all the way right to the wall
to find lavender. Then, go through the opening into the Machine Room. Go through
the right door into the Lava Pool Room and go across the moving ledges to the
other side. Turn and face back to the left to see something glittering. Dash
left across the lava to get the Flame Crystal. Dash back to the right, all the
way right, and down into Stairwell One (there are a lot of these, so keep them
straight). Go down and enter the stone tube. Go down into the Harpy Room, dash
left, and enter the door. Go left and examine the globe to learn how to stop its
spinning; there's hyssop in the right wall.

 Exit this room, return to the stone doorway in the Lava Pool Room, and get the
Red Gemstone. Go back to the Harpy Room, go all the way right, down the tube to
Press <CR> for more !





CompuServe CIS:TEG-12384

Stairwell Two, down, and down into the tube to the Fireball Room. Go left,
insert the Red Gemstone into the square niche to open the grate, and dash left
to the doorway into the Amoeba Room. Go right, down to Stairwell Three, down,
and down through the tube into the Ogre Room. Go left, down the tube to
Stairwell Four, down, and down the tube to Kaji's Room. Go right and talk to
her. Insert the Flame Crystal to release her. She gives you advice on defeating
Haiko, and the Energy Rod.

 Go back up to the Ogre Room, right, and touch the gate. Go right to the central
globe and examine it. As you do, a force draws you into the globe and deposits
you in a different room. Work your way down to and take the Morning Star (lower
right). The writing on the wall tells you the weapon will destroy something.

 Return to Kaji's Room, get the Flame Crystal, and dash right, up, and through
the door into Haiko's Room. Start attacking the flames shooting up from the
floor. The more you extinguish, the lower Haiko will come. You must get him down
to the highest level your party can jump before you can destroy him. After the
battle, go right to find Chain Mail.

 Return to the Machine Room (all the way back up to the top level) and hit the
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12387

globe with the Morning Star to destroy it. Now, return to the Harpy Room, go
left over the bouncing columns, enter the opening, and destroy this globe. When
you do, the door out closes; you must destroy the two bouncing balls in order to
reopen the door.

 Go back to the Fireball Room, dash left to the other grate, and insert the
Flame Crystal to open it. Go all the way left, up the tube to Stairwell Five,
and up to the Missing Magician's Room. Go up to him to learn what the quest was
really about. After he returns you to the surface, you may want to go back to
get the Red Gemstone and Flame Crystal (Fireball Room), or to search for herbs.
To end the quest, return to the Machine Room, go through the left door, and
continue left.

 Sell the Crystal and Gem, divide the Mail and Morning Star to your fighters,
and give the Energy Rod to your magic user.

 THE WATER OF LIFE

 Before beginning this quest, I strongly advise that: You have at least three
Cure potions or an item enchanted with the Cure spell with you, and some means
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12388

of resurrecting your characters (they'll die several times); you put your magic
user somewhere in the middle of your party; you have a method to heal your
characters quickly. Also, expect to be attacked immediately upon entering just
about all the rooms in this quest (there are a few "safe" rooms).

 Dash right, leap to the upper ledge, and enter the hole. Go right to enter the
Pillar Demons Room. The tactic that worked best for me was to stand in place and
jump while I used the Spacebar to attack. When standing in front of the left
column, face left; face right in front of the right column. After the battle
(good for 2,000 EPs), go left, through the hole, down to the lower level, and
all the way right (stay on the lower level), through the hole into the Long
Room. Dash right, examine the hand to take it, and go left through the left-hand
hole into the Two Door Room. Jump down, go right, down, and through the hole
(you can't open these doors yet) into Heart Rome One. Go down and through the
door at the lower right into the Muscle Control Room. Touch the red spot next to
the muscle to activate it: This is an elevator of sorts you'll use elsewhere.
Every time you use it, you will need to come here to reactivate it.

 Return to Heart Room One, go left, up at the first opportunity, and through the
hole into Heart Room Two. Go right, through the hole into the Stomach Room, and
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12391

right, then left to the bottom level. Go through the left hole, over to the
right door, and through it into the Cask Room. Go to the cask and examine it to
get some advice and the Tuning Fork. Exit this room, go through the left hole to
get back to the Stomach Room, then back through the hole on the upper level to
get back to Heart Room Two.

 Go down to the lowest level of Heart Room Two and enter the door. Put the
Tuning Fork on the left stand; you should hear a loud sound. Go back to the
Stomach Room, go down, and through the hole on the right side into the Acid Lake
Room. Save your game before making another move, then jump from ledge to ledge
until you reach the door on the right side of the lake; enter it. Go up and
right to get the first of three Crystal Valves. There's savory on the ledge
above the crystal. Exit this room, save your game once more, and return to Heart
Room Two. Go down through the door and take the Tuning Fork.

 Go back to the right, get to the upper level of Heart Room Two, go left, and
through hole back to Heart Room One. Go down, left, up, and right through the
hole back to the Two Door Room. Go left and work your way back to the Long Room.
Dash right (talk to the rope where the hand was hanging for more cryptic clues),
and go through the hole into the Elevator Room. Jump onto the elevator, ride it
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12393

up, and jump off to the right. Go through the hole into the Cilia Room,
dash-jump right, and enter the Valve Control Room. (Stepping on the waving cilia
is what deactivates the elevator.) Insert the Crystal Valve into the right-hand
niche and return to Heart Room One (go right, through the square hole, left and
over the top of the elevator, down through the hole back to the Long Room, left
to the Two Door Room, and through the hole).

 Go to the Muscle Control Room and reactivate the elevator. Then, go back to
Heart Room One, left, and through the first hole you come to on the lower level
to Heart Room Four. Go down and through the door on the bottom right. Place the
Tuning Fork; you should hear an unclear sound. Exit this room, go left, up, and
through the top hole back to the Two Door Room. Go up and enter the right-hand
door to Crawler Room One. Go right, down, and through the hole to the Slug Room.
Go right, through the hole, get the second Crystal Valve, and return to the Two
Door Room.

 Now, go back to the Valve Control Room, remove the right-hand crystal, and
insert a crystal in the left-hand niche. Return to Heart Room One, reactivate
the elevator, then go back to Heart Room Four. Go down, right, through the door,
and get the Tuning Fork. Exit this room and go up to the left at your first
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-12396

opportunity back to Heart Room Two. Go right, down, and left on the middle level
(above the lowest level's door). Go left and through the hole into the Bivalve
Room. Go through the upper hole to Heart Room Three, all the way right, through
the door, and place the Tuning Fork; you should hear a clear sound.

 Exit the room, go all the way left, down, and through the hole into the Leech
Room. Dash down, left, up, left, and down. Go through the door into the Stone
Arch Room. Go left, upstairs, and through the door into Crawler Room Two. Go
right, get the last Crystal Valve, return to the Leech Room, and go back to
Heart Room Three. Go right, up, and right to retrieve your Tuning Fork. Then,
return to the Valve Control Room. Remove the left-hand crystal, and insert a
crystal into the middle niche.

 Return to the Long Room, and go through the new hole in its center. You see
some odd changes in the heart walls; passages once open are now closed.
Reactivate the elevator, go back to Heart Room One, then return to the Bivalve
Room. Go up through the hole, and all the way right to the door. Enter and place
the Tuning Fork; you should hear a clear sound. Go back to Heart Room Two,
right, and through the hole into the Stomach Room. Go down, left, and all the
way right through the hole into the Acid Lake Room. This time, you're going to
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-12398

have to enter the acid. Jump down, dash-jump left (to get out of the acid as
quickly as possible), and enter the hole. You're back in the Leech Room at its
far right side. Go all the way left, through the door, and back to the Stone
Arch Room. Go through the arch, dash all the way right past the muscle, and go
through hole to get back to the Two Door Room.

 Now, you can enter the left-hand door. On the other side, you find another of
those muscle elevators. Ride it up, jump off to the right, and enter the hole.
You've found the Water of Life Room. Take the Water from the statue. At this
point, all the monsters have been deactivated with the exception of the cilia
and those pulsing yellowish spots; you'll still lose hit points when you touch
them. Return to the Valve Control Room and take the middle crystal. You'll need
to use the new hole connecting the Long Room and Heart Room One to get back
there.

 Now, return to the Two Door Room, back to the Stomach Room, and through the
lower left hole. Go through the door, down, and get the Potion from the Cask
Room. Return to Heart Room One, reactivate the elevator, then go back to the
Bivalve Room, up, and right to the door to retrieve your Tuning Fork. Now, go
back to the Long Room. Go through the right hole into the Elevator Room, and
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-12401

ride it up to the Cilia Room. Dash-jump left, go through the hole, and head left
to end the quest.

 Give the Water of Life to the king for 2,000 extra EPs, sell the crystals and
the tuning fork, and divide the potion.

 SORCERIAN is published by Nihon-Falcom and distributed by Sierra On-Line.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Barbara Baser. All rights reserved.
Last page !