******* Brought To you by The Raven- Freelance Oerative *******

 ULTIMA V
  Part 1

 You, the great Avatar of legend, were enjoying a comfortable 
sleep in your own world. It had been a long time since you ç
ventured deep into the Great Stygian Abyss and entered the Codex ç
of Ultimate Wisdom. Returning back to Britannia, the world you ç
had begun to love as your own, was not as easy as it seemed. The ç
gate into Lord British's realm had not appeared since the fateful ç
day the Codex returned you to your home.

 But now things are looking pretty grim. I'm sure Iolo has given ç
you the story,and those three beings he calls Shadowlords are ç
more than enough evidence that Britannia is in trouble. It is ç
time to don your armour and carry the Ankh again.

 First of all, my compliments go out to Lord British, who has ç
created the best adventure/RPG game I have ever played. He pushes ç
the point of realism and has cleared up a lot of the "minor ç
things" that were wrong with ULTIMA IV. More importantly, ç
however, he has doubled the size. ULTIMA V (in case you may not
have dug into the game yet) is BIG, but fun!

 Let's get some of the preliminary things cleared up. First of ç
all, it will be beneficial to you to open up your "Book of Lore" ç
and read it straight through. Pay attention to the section on ç
"Virtue" if you didn't play ULTIMA IV. Next, I recommend that you ç
memorize the runes in the "Language" section. Several times
in the game, you will be required to read and/or translate ç
messages in runic writing. Having the table committed to memory ç
makes things a lot easier. As for the other information ç
(geography, economy, etc.), it will help you understand and get ç
closer to the detailed and enchanting world you are about to ç
enter. Take a peek at the "Ethics" section. You'll soon see how ç
Britannia came to be in this shape because of these "laws."

 But behold! There is more: a map, a journal of Lord British's ç
fateful trip, aplayer's reference card, and a quick reference ç
card. Set the map out where it's comfortable -- for you and for ç
it (your map is probably tired of being folded in that dark box): ç
You'll be using it a lot. Read the sheet about Lord British's
trip, then set it aside for later (it will be used to obtain a ç
needed item). The player's reference card deserves a read, and ç
the quick reference card would do well sitting next to your ç
keyboard. There is a list of spells on the back that
helps considerably.

 NOTE: It is assumed that you have played ULTIMA IV (you should ç
definitely do so, if you haven't already), although you need no ç
prior experience. The "Create a character" function is self-ç
explanatory; nevertheless, the gypsy's questions may be confusing ç
to someone who did not witness the same thing in ULTIMA IV.
Each virtue represents a class. By repeatedly choosing the virtue çäof the classyou wish, you will e as that class. For example: ç
If you're given a choice between Honesty and being humble in some ç
way, choose the Honesty response if you want to be a Mage. Since ç
there are only three classes in ULTIMA V (instead of eight, as in ç
ULTIMA IV), and you're automatically an Avatar (regardless of
class), the only things that are minimally affected are the ç
intelligence, strength, and dexterity stats.

 The introduction fits well with your current location in the ç
game. You're inIolo's hut with Shamino (who doesn't look so ç
good). Iolo is already in your party. First things first. Let's ç
try out some of those spells on Shamino. A few MANIs should do.

 Next, teach yourself good searching habits. Searching is of ç
major importance in ULTIMA V. Almost anything can be searched, ç
and many things hold items of value and power. Barrels, ç
bookcases, beds, vanities, coffers, trunks -- if you see it,
search it. For example, a barrel in Iolo's barn contains a ç
potion. Try to S)earch there. When you're sure you've mastered ç
lesson one, it's time for lesson two.

 Lesson Two. What you find is yours, no matter where it is, with ç
one exception: food. DO NOT, under any circumstances, get into a ç
habit of looting fields or tables for food -- no matter how ç
painful those hunger pangs are. "Stealing" food is one of the few ç
things in this game that are detrimental to your Avatarhood. The ç
best way to obtain food is to buy or summon it. Details on food ç
-- a major obstacle in the game -- will be discussed later.

 After picking up any items you might find at Iolo's, exit to ç
Britannia. If you're lost, you should be in the northwest corner ç
of the map, just east of Empath Abbey. Hike west and find Empath ç
Abbey. Enter and utilize your new talent for searching and ç
getting. Next comes Lesson Three.

 Lesson Three. Much like ULTIMA IV, talking is essential to the ç
game. Similar to the rule of searching, the rule of talking is: ç
If you see someone, talk to him or her and use the general topics ç
to extract as much information as possible. JOB is the most ç
useful starting point. JOIN works, but for most of the
characters you won't need it, since they ask you if they may join ç
you. As with the rule of taking, there is an exception. Don't try ç
to talk with guards in towns. More often than not you'll end up ç
in the slammer or out a goodly sum of gold.

 Inside Empath Abbey you should begin to draw some conclusions: ç
Think about what is going on, who is corrupting who, where to go ç
for further information, etc. When you feel you've talked to ç
everyone you can, hang around in the kitchen. Julia, an old ç
companion, wants to join you. If you wish, pick her up. ç
Also, Toshi, a bard, would like to join. Be picky with whom you  ç
let join because there are only six slots, and you will be ç
meeting all seven (actually eight) of your former companions. ç
Exit Empath Abbey and head east onto the road.
ä Follow the road around to Yew. This will be your first ç
experience with Blackthorn's tyranny. Upon entering (after ç
passing the signs bearing Blackthorn's law of justice) a guard ç
should beset you. Just this once, let him
approach you and demand a fine. Refuse to pay, but go with him ç
quietly. You end up in a cell in Yew any time you are caught in ç
the above manner. Here you can talk to your fellow prisoners and ç
learn how to get keys. Always be kind, and always be on the ç
lookout for help.
                               
 After receiving your keys, head north through the secret door ç
behind the bed. Jaana is in the underground, as well as rats and ç
a silver sword. Search, search, search! After you escape, head ç
over to the father and son "criminals" in the manacles (be ç
careful to avoid the guards!). Talk to them and learn of ç
their plight. This, for me, was the first example of Blackthorn's ç
evil perversion of the virtues. Think about it, then prepare ç
yourself to battle evil. Be an Avatar, and release the two poor ç
souls.

 From here, you're on your own. T)alk and S)earch. Here are a few ç
things to listen for: the Resistance (a bartender can help with ç
this one); Lord British's items; the names of the Shadowlords; ç
the locations of the shards; and the Words of Power. There is ç
much more to do in the game, but these are the main subjects you ç
will need to acquire and learn before you can successfully ç
complete your quest. Good luck!

 After many days in Britannia, you will begin to encounter the ç
single most frustrating problem of the game: lack of food. A ç
spell, IN XEN MANI, can be found in Moonglow and allows the ç
creation of a meager amount of food. Unfortunately, the quantity ç
is not worth the price of the spell. A few suggestions follow to ç
help alleviate the problem:

 1. Don't carry a full load of people until you carry a full load of gold.
 2. Moonglow and Britain usually have the best prices for food: ç
    Stock up when in town.
 3. Save the game at milestones. If you feel you've wasted your ç
    food floating at sea, turn the computer off and come back.

 The food problem soon leads to a development of the philosophy ç
of the "ULTIMA Chain." Everything starts at the bountiful ç
encounters of the night. To survive, it will be necessary for you ç
to fight as often as you can. Land monsters, such as Ettins, ç
Headlesses, and Trolls, are the best monsters to attack, ç
especially when you compare the difficulty to defeat them with ç
the treasure you receive for your efforts. From these encounters, ç
you'll gain a tiny amount of food, and a tremendous amount of ç
weapons and armour. Stockpile equipment, and then sell it.
This brings you gold. And we all know what gold brings you, right?



ä






 ULTIMA V
  Part 2

 Iolo's hut is just one of the many interesting places you will ç
visit in yourQuest of the Avatar. You will encounter two castles, ç
eight major towns, six villages, four lighthouses, three major ç
keeps, four minor keeps, four huts, and the Codex. Most of these ç
locations are in the same places in Britannia as they were in ç
ULTIMA IV. The major exceptions are the keeps, huts, lighthouses, ç
and one of the castles. It is helpful to use the map provided in ç
the game box. Pin tags on it showing the names of the specific ç
locations, dungeons, and shrines as you visit them. This helps ç
when you need to return to a specific location.

 In each of these places, it is imperative that you search the ç
buildings and environs thoroughly and talk extensively with all ç
the inhabitants, if you are to succeed in ULTIMA V. The order in ç
which you visit the locations cannot be set precisely, so a step-ç
by-step walkthru is impossible. In some cases, conversations at ç
one location will lead you to another, and then back again toget ç
all the information you need for a particular situation. It is ç
suggested, however, that after investigating Iolo's surroundings, ç
you travel south and east to Brittany Bay, and begin your ç
investigating at Lord British's Castle.

 Of course, during your travels, visitations, and investigations, ç
you will be building your group's attributes so that you will be ç
ready for the final quest: the assault on Doom. Since there is no ç
real order to visiting, this walkthru will take the locations in ç
basically the order listed above, and discuss the major features ç
and personalities in each. One word of caution: Do not eat the ç
food from the tables or take food from the fields. This is the ç
only activity that can have a negative effect on the "growth" of ç
your party. Otherwise, you can search and take all you want. Be ç
sure to search all trees, stumps, chests, furniture, etc. ç
Additionally, you can back out of fights without penalty in this
game. Occasionally, when you enter a town you will be told, "An ç
air of __ surrounds you!" When this happens, leave the town ç
immediately (unless you like frustrating experiences). This ç
simply means that one of the Shadowlords is in residence, and he ç
will keep you from getting good answers, even disallowing the ç
people to talk to you. If you persist, the Shadowlord will attack ç
you, and, believe me, you cannot win that fight. Usually you can ç
exit the town, camp for the night, and re-enter the town the next ç
day. There is one other general note: Some of the people will not ç
talk with you completely until you have finished several of the ç
Shrine Quests. One other suggestion: Mapping the towns, ç
villages, and buildings is helpful in locating hidden doors and  çäpassages, as well as in saving yo time used to retrace your ç
footsteps. Now, let's get on with the specifics.

 THE CASTLES

 Lord British's Castle is located just where it was in ULTIMA IV ç
-- right on Brittany Bay. Only now, after years of peace and ç
prosperity, it has grown. The building consists of five levels ç
and has some interesting things and people in it.

 LEVEL 1 (MAIN FLOOR)

 The major features here are a kitchen and a stable. You won't ç
get much information here from either Stephen (the Cook), or ç
Treanna (the Stable Girl), although the latter may help you ç
later. There is a locked door off the corridor outside the stable ç
which leads to the outside. If one of your party has enough ç
dexterity to unlock this door, you can mount a horse here, and ç
ride out of the castle. In the northern corridor, there is a door ç
to the outside that is locked. Don't worry with it or waste your ç
time. Those of you who played ULTIMA IV will recall that one of ç
the dungeons had an entrance in the back of this Castle. It is ç
not there in ULTIMA V. This exit to the castle can be used to get ç
back to the great outdoors, but only if: 1) you can open the ç
door, and 2) you have the flying carpet to get over the stream. ç
In each corner of the castle, there are towers with up and down ç
ladders. Down leads to the Basement.

 THE BASEMENT

 On this level you will find the North Star Armoury, proprietor ç
Max Engle, the jail, and several storage rooms. In the armoury ç
you will be offered some nice pieces of equipment, if you can ç
afford them. The magical shield is quite nice, but very ç
expensive. In the storage rooms (if you can get in), search all ç
the containers. There should be some interesting artifacts ç
available. By the way, some of the hidden special items will ç
regenerate when you leave the building and town; others will not. ç
Now, about the locks. Some are magical and will require either ç
Skull Keys or the IN EX POR spell to open. Don't waste keys when ç
you are told that the key broke. You either don't have enough ç
dexterity yet, or the door is sealed with magic. There are three ç
doors in the Jail: Behind the right there is nothing, the middle ç
holds a nasty prisoner who gives no real hints or service (he ç
will fight you if you let him out), and the left is a mystery ç
this Avatar never solved. If you get the door open, there is a ç
stone wall! Don't waste time, spells, or keys in this area. Go ç
back to a tower and go up twice.

 LEVEL 2

 Here you will find lots of rooms to explore, but little of ç
value. There is a kitchen, cook's room, dining room, banquet ç
room, guard barracks, throne room (empty), and banquet hall. ç
There is a secret passage running down the middle of the level çäwith entrances to the banquet hall,ne room, and kitchen. As ç
far as I could determine, there was no real value to this ç
passage. It required a lot of keys and spells to finally solve ç
with no gain. You may encounter Desiree on this floor. In ç
chatting with her, she will tell you that Lord Stuart (he is in ç
Moonglow) is working on a magic spell to create food. More on ç
this later. Go back to a tower, and go up once.

 LEVEL 3 (THE ROOF)

 What a view from the battlements! Although not of any real value ç
but cute: Go to one of the cannons and F)ire it. You can actually ç
move them around, but they have no use. DO NOT try to use them on ç
the guard (who will try to keep you from entering the center area ç
of the roof). As a matter of fact, do not, repeat, DO NOT kill ç
the guard. You may not get out of the Castle alive. By the way, ç
this warning applies to all places in Britannia (don't fight or ç
kill the denizens unless they assault you first). Okay, if you ç
can't kill the guard, how do you get by him? Play a waiting game ç
until you can't see him, and then sneak to the center of the ç
roof, where you will be faced with a door you can't open! The ç
sign says this is Lord British's apartment. You will need the IN ç
EX POR spell or a Skull Key to gain entrance.

 Right inside this entrance you will see a carpet on the floor. ç
Get it! You now have a flying carpet, which is one of the most ç
useful modes of transportation in this game. By the way, it ç
regenerates when you leave the castle, which means if you lose ç
the one you have, you can return for another. Search the room ç
thoroughly. If you have mapped the roof, you will see that the ç
room and the outside walls do not match. Go through the ç
fireplace. Ah ha! A secret room! Search and take potions/scrolls ç
you are offered. Again, look at the diagram. There is still an ç
area in the northeast corner unaccounted for. Go back in the ç
room, sit down at the harpsichord, and play the tune you were ç
taught by Lord Kenneth in the Grayhaven Lighthouse. (On your ç
keyboard type 6 7 8 9 8 7 8 7 6 7 6 5 3, in that order.) There ç
will be a rumble, and a secret door in the northeast will be  ç
revealed. Enter the room, and take the box. Don't waste your time ç
trying to use it, open it, etc. Just take it and keep it with you ç
until you get to the end of the game. Its use will be made ç
apparent to you then. From the apartment, you can go up to the ç
final level, which is the observatory.

 THE OBSERVATORY

 On the roof of Lord British's apartment, you will find a ç
telescope and flag. If it is night, look through the telescope at ç
the stars and comets. The comets represent the Shadowlords and ç
the stars/planets represent the eight towns of Britannia. The ç
Shadowlords will be occupying the towns to which the comets are
closest.

 That's it for this Castle. Exit the penthouse and go to the ç
nearest tower, go down to main floor, and exit. A couple of  çäinteresting points about this buildinere are not a lot of  ç
people to talk to, nor are there many clues which will help you ç
in the rest of the game. The other interesting feature is if you ç
and your party are killed during your travels, you will be ç
resurrected by Lord British, and you will find yourselves on the ç
top level of this Castle with all your hit points restored and ç
all your possessions intact. Additionally, if you are ready for ç
advancement, you will get that honor from LB during the ceremony. ç
Actually, it is worth dying just for the show.

 BLACKTHORN'S CASTLE

 You will not be able to reach this location until you have ç
sufficient funds to buy a ship. Secondly, you should not even try ç
to assault this bastion of evil until you have acquired the Black ç
Badge and learned the password of the Opposition. Wearing the ç
badge and giving the password when asked will allow free passage ç
around the castle in search of Lord British's Crown. By the way, ç
the Badge will be given to you by Elistaria (located in Windemere ç
Keep) when you give her the password for the Opposition (IMPERA), ç
which you you will learn from Judge Dryden in Yew, after you've ç
talked to Tactus in Minoc. Confused? Just goto Windemere Keep ç
with this information, and ask Elistaria about the opposition. ç
You have all the information you need to get the Badge. She will ç
tell you that Thrud has other items. Don't bother. It's a sword ç
and shield of dubious value. Also, if you have talked to Toede (a ç
prisoner in the Serpent's Hold), you will have been told to ç
beware of trapdoors in Blackthorn's Castle. How true! These ç
devilish traps are located in most hallways, and can be very ç
frustrating. You can try to avoid them (in the Apple version, you ç
can see little red dots surrounding squares that have trap doors ç
in them), or you can travel the corridors on the magic carpet.

 There is one other way to get around Blackthorn's domain without ç
the subterfuge afforded by the Badge. It is called sneaking, but ç
when you're caught (and you will be!), you'll be taken to the ç
dungeon and tortured until you tell Blackthorn what he wants to ç
know. In this process one of your party -- Shamino or Iolo ç
usually -- will be sacrificed. You will be put in a cell with ç
Gorn, who will offer you some information if you will let him ç
join your party. Okay, take him up on the offer. He will tell you ç
how to escape from the castle using secret passages and doors. ç
Specifically, he says: "There is a secret door behind me.
Klimb to the roof, and sneak down the northern ladder. In ç
Blackthorn's bedroom there is a secret door. Klimb down the  ç
ladder to the other side. Go through the secret door to the ç
north, down another ladder, and out the back gates. Wait there ç
until morning, when the drawbridge is lowered, and flee for our ç
lives." Confused? So was this Avatar. That is why I chose to do ç
this part of the game with the Badge and Password. Additionally, ç
I didn't care for Gorn and preferred my old friends, Shamino and ç
Iolo. By the way, Hassad, one of the former Council Members, is ç
imprisoned here. He can give you the Word of Power -- MALUM -- to
open the Dungeon Wrong.
ä Blackthorn's Castle is made up of many rooms, confusing ç
stairways, and lots of locked doors. Interestingly, most of the  ç
doors can be opened only with skull keys. But don't waste them; ç
they are too hard to come by. Since it is really not necessary to ç
explore this whole castle, I will not give a complete floor-by-ç
floor description, but I'll leave that to you if you want to do a
complete exploration some time.

 Wearing the Black Badge, take Gorn's advice and enter the Castle ç
from the rear. Here you will find a hallway with doors to the ç
east and west, and stairs going up to the south. The western door ç
leads to a Stable. Be careful! There are two trapdoors in the ç
center of the hallway. Walk next to the wall all the way south, ç
then take the stairs up. In this room you will see stairways in ç
the northeast, northwest, southeast, and southwest corners. You ç
will also see an individual sitting in a chair. If you talk to ç
him, you'll find he is Weblock, a mysterious old mage who offers ç
to help, but who really won't! Anyway, take either the
northwest or northeast stairway up to Level 3.

 It makes no difference whether you enter this level from the ç
northwest or northeast stairway on Level 2. Let's assume you ç
entered using the northeast stairs. (If you use the northwest ç
stairs, just reverse the following instructions.) Go east as far ç
as you can. Go south through the room of columns, and continue ç
south past the fountain, as far as you can. Turn west and go to ç
the first door going north. Enter the room. Wow! Blackthorn's ç
throne room. Are you in trouble? No, just stay to the side, and ç
go all the way north, turning to the center of the room, then ç
west to the door. Go north, and you are in Blackthorn's bedroom. ç
Take the time to search everything here, and get all the ç
"goodies." You have earned them! To the north there are stairs to ç
the roof; use them.

 You are on the northern wall of the Castle. Board your Carpet ç
because there are trapdoors in all four of the corner towers. ç
Just to be sure, travel along the walls. Go either west or east, ç
then south, then either west or east to the center of the ç
southern wall, and the walkway that leads to Lord British's ç
Crown. You will cause the Gargoyles to come alive and attack you. ç
If you're strong enough, you should be able to kill them easily;  ç
as an alternative, have one of your party equipped with a Ring of ç
Invisibility, and remove all the others from the battle. The ç
Gargoyle with think everyone has gone, and he will leave, too. ç
You have beat him and have access to the Crown. Open the door ç
using a skull key. (Again, magic won't work here.) Stay on your ç
carpet, and get the Crown. That's it. Exit by reversing your ç
route. As long as you keep the Black Badge on and speak the right ç
password to any guard who stops you, you will be able to get out
with no problem.

 Now that you have completed this quest, TAKE OFF THE BLACK ç
BADGE! There aremany good people in the land who will not talk to ç
you if you are wearing it.
ä




 ULTIMA V
  Part 3

 THE MAJOR KEEPS

 These buildings were in ULTIMA IV, but they have changed greatly ç
in the years since that scenario. There are three such keeps: ç
Empath Abbey, The Lyceum, and Serpent's Hold.

 Empath Abbey can be found in the northwestern part of the main ç
continent. This keep represents LOVE. There are two levels to ç
this keep. Searching them will reveal the major features: a ç
healer on the first level, and the Flame of Love (on the second ç
level on a balcony off the northern wall). From Tim, the Keep's ç
Bard, you will learn about Sir Kenneth, the court composer, and ç
where he can be found. Lady Barbara is the Keeper of the Flame of ç
Love. Lord Michael will discuss the principles of Love, give you ç
the Grapple, and reveal the name of the Shadowlord of Hatred: ç
ASTAROTH.

 The Lyceum is located on the same island as the town of ç
Moonglow, and is due east of Brittanny Bay. This keep stands for ç
TRUTH. The building has three levels. It contains a stable, a ç
pub, a healer, a library, and the Flame of Truth. The stable is ç
on level one, the healer and pub are on level two, the Flame of ç
Truth is in a room to the north of the throne room, and the ç
library is in the northwest quarter of level three. There is ç
nothing hidden in this keep. Lady Hayden and Lord R'hien will ç
share some philosophical views of the state of the land with you. ç
Lady Janell will give you the information on the twins in Cove, ç
who can help you reach the Shard of Falsehood. Shalineth, the ç
Lord of the Keep of Truth, reveals to you the name of the ç
Shadowlord of Falsehood: FAULINEI. Rollo, The Lyceum's scribe, ç
validates the final travels of Lord British -- a loose hint about ç
the location of the Amulet if you have accurately strung all
the other clues together.

 Serpent's Hold is on an island at the far south of the realm. ç
This keep stands for Courage. The building has two levels above ç
ground, and an underground area. Exploring them will reveal an ç
armoury (with standard fare), a dungeon, and the Flame of ç
Courage. The basement level houses the Flame of Courage, and a ç
couple of secret doors and corridors which have nothing of real ç
interest behind them. The armoury and dungeon are on the main ç
level. On the second level is a training room and the throne ç
room. Lord Malone, the Lord of the Keep, reveals the name of
the Shadowlord of Cowardice: NOSFENTOR. In the training room, ç
Monsieur Loubet, the fencing master, tells you that a magic ç
carpet can be secured from Bandaii in Paws. In the dungeon, Toede ç
(a prisoner there) tells you to beware the trapdoors in Lord çäBlackthorn's Castle, which he helped ruct. Kristi, the cook ç
for the Keep, will sell you some Skull Keys. Buy them! At 100 ç
gold pieces, they're a bargain! Gardner, the keeper of the Flame ç
of Courage, tells you where to locate the Shard of Cowardice from ç
the Underworld entrance to the Dungeon Hythloth. He gives you the ç
coordinates L'A"-L'I" and explains that the area is composed of ç
many small chambers, which require magic (IN POR) to reach, and ç
lots of exploration to locate the Shard.

 THE TOWNS

 The eight towns -- Britain, Yew, Jhelom, Minoc, Moonglow, New ç
Magincia, Skara Brae, and Trinsic -- are in the same locations as ç
they were in ULTIMA IV. For those who did not play the previous ç
scenario, this walkthru will pinpoint their locations for you.

 BRITAIN

 Britain is located on Brittany Bay just to the west of Lord ç
British's Castle. In the town you will find a full service inn ç
(food and lodging), and an armoury. This armoury will provide you ç
with a magical bow (if you can afford it) and other fine wares. ç
The Inn has two stories and is worthy of exploration. Food can
be purchased in the tavern section of this inn. Also in town, you ç
will find the Bard Gwenno, who will join your party if asked. You ç
will also learn the Mantra of Compassion (MU) in town. The major ç
personalities and the clues they will give
you are:

 Greyson: He tells you about the guardians of the Codex. He warns ç
you that only those on a sacred quest can be granted passage to ç
the Codex. What he means is that unless you have visited a Shrine ç
and received the Quest, you cannot visit the Codex to get the ç
information you need to complete the Quest.

 Terrance, a soiled farmer: He is located in the Orchard and will ç
tell you to ask the owner of the Arms of Justice in Yew about the ç
Resistance.

 Telila, the cleaning lady: She is in the Inn and will tell you ç
about a strange man, Annon, who spends his days alone on the ç
balconies. Additionally, say the word Gossip to her, and she will ç
give you a very important clue about finding the Mystical Arms ç
and Armour. She will relate a conversation she overheard
involving a man named Bullwier from Jhelom.

 Annon, a wizard and former Council member: Probably the first ç
time you meet Annon, he will be most reticent with you unless you ç
have completed a couple of the Shrine Quests. He will tell you ç
that he does not trust your virtue. Once he opens up, he will ç
give you the Word of Power (FALLAX), which can be used to unseal ç
the Dungeon Deceit. He tells you that the eight dungeons were ç
sealed with these words of power, but Blackthorn is hunting down ç
the former Council members to obtain the words so he can unleash ç
the horrors from the dungeons. He will also tell you that the çädaughter of another Council Member was a sailmaker. "Ask the ç
child about her mother, for she knows one of the Words of Power." ç
The child is Fenelon. She is in Minoc, and her mother is Fiona, ç
who runs the Poorhouse there.

 Eb, a young boy: He is the busboy in the tavern in the inn. He ç
will help you find the Glass Sword by telling you to talk to ç
Malik in Moonglow.

 YEW

 Yew is located in the northwest part of the main continent of ç
Britannia, and it may be the first town you encounter after ç
leaving Iolo's hut (located in the deep woods just to the south ç
of this town). Yew and Empath Abbey are connected by a road; one ç
of the Moongates is located between the two locations. The town ç
itself has two levels. You can secure the Mantra of Justice (BEH) ç
here. On the main level, you will find an armoury, an apothecary ç
(reagents), a tavern, a cemetery, and a hall of administration ç
and justice. By the way, avoid the guards. They will want to take ç
your money as a donation to "charity." If you don't give ç
willingly, you will be attacked! At the Arms of Justice, you can ç
purchase a magical axe. This is probably the best weapon in the ç
game, and I would recommend that all members of the party be ç
equipped with one as soon as you can afford to do so.

 Obviously, food is available in the tavern. Madam Pendra's ç
Apothecary offers Sulfur Ash, Ginseng, Garlic, Spider Silk, and ç
Blood Moss. If you enjoy translating the language of Britannia ç
(which I found to be a pain), explore the cemetery and read the ç
headstones. By the way, there is a secret exit in the wall in the ç
northwest corner of the cemetery. It can be handy if you are ç
running from the guards. The administrative offices also contain ç
the town's jail. There is a trapdoor here which will take you to ç
the lower level (see below). On this level you will meet and talk ç
to:

 Jerone: He is a prisoner in the Hall of Justice jail. He tells ç
you about "seeing" Lord British as an apparition while  ç
adventuring. This is a loose hint about how LB will visit and ç
bestow advancement on your party when you camp and rest "before ç
the campfire."

 Chamfort, a hearty Blacksmith: He owns the Arms of Justice and ç
can tell you about the Resistance if you remember who (Terrance ç
in Britain) told you about him. He will give you the password ç
(DAWN) for the Resistance and tell you to talk to Landon, who is ç
the local leader. He can be reached through the fireplace, which ç
leads to a secret passage in the lower level.

 Mario and Aleyn: This father and son are prisoners in the public ç
shackles. Talk to them, then unlock and free them as an act of ç
kindness.

 Judge Dryden: He is in charge of running the town and will help çäyou get into the Oppression. Ask bout the Chain of  ç
Oppression. He will want to know who sent you (Tactus in Minoc). ç
He will then tell you to see Elistaria "on the northern-most isle ç
of Britannia." Tell her the password IMPERA when you see her.

 Graymarch: He is a prisoner who is concerned about                            ç
his son Froed (Skara Brae).
               
 Felespar: This old wizard is also a prisoner, and you will find ç
he was a Council Member. If you know the password for the ç
Resistance, he will give you one of the Words of Power (VILIS), ç
which will open Dungeon Despise.

 Now, go to Chamfort's quarters, enter the fireplace, and go to ç
the lower level of Yew. Follow the passage north as far as you ç
can go, then east to the junction with a passage going south. ç
Take the passage south. You have found the secret quarters of ç
this Yew's Resistance movement. Here you will meet Jaana, who is ç
a good addition for your party. She will add magical powers to ç
your group, which will be needed later. Go back to the east/west ç
corridor, and continue east. The next passage to the south leads ç
to what looks like a blank wall. Search, and you will find a ç
secret door. Don't bother with it. This room is under the jail ç
and has a rat in it. If you have fallen through the trapdoor in ç
the jail above, this is the room in which you landed. You can get ç
out by opening the secret door. Go back to the east/west corridor ç
and continue east to the final southern passage and stairs up. ç
You can go south, dispose of the rats, and search the barrel if ç
you want. Go up the stairs. You will be in an east/west passage, ç
which is actually a secret route between the cells in the jail. ç
There is a secret door in the exact middle, which will put you ç
into the middle cell in the jail where Jerone is incarcerated. In ç
this passage you will probably encounter Landon, who will tell ç
you that Blackthorn has Lord British's Crown in a room at the top ç
of his castle. He warns you that Blackthorn prohibits magic from ç
being used in his castle, and tells you to seek out Sir Simon "on ç
a mountain isle, west of the Spiritwood."

 JHELOM

 Jhelom is located on an island to the southwest of the main ç
continent. There is a moongate located here. The town itself is a  ç
single level; however, each of the buildings -- armoury, inn/pub, ç
and shipwright -- all have second floors. Each of the corner ç
towers has two stories. The towers are entered by going to either ç
the southeastern or southwestern corners, then by going up to the ç
top level, and traveling the walls. Really, there is little to be ç
gained in these towers.

 The main thing here is the northwestern tower. This is the home ç
of Goeth, whowas one the Council Members. He is difficult to talk ç
to, since you need to reverse your words with him. In addition to ç
giving you one of the Words of Power (INOPIA) which opens Dungeon ç
Destard, he will tell you the secret of the Moonstones. He tells ç
you to stand at a moongate until just after it closes, then çäsearch for and take the stone. The ston then be planted ç
elsewhere and used for travel. This is most important when you ç
begin to search the Underworld for the Shards, since in a couple ç
of cases, it may be the best (or only) way to return to the ç
surface.

 Other people of interest:

 Thorne, a battle-worn fighter: He will give you the Mantra of ç
Valor (RA). He will also give you great help with Dungeon Destard ç
by telling you to push on and shoot at walls and torches across ç
chasms.

 Bullwier: He tells you that Ambrose (who is recuperating in ç
Cove) was injured while searching for the Mystical Weapons and ç
Armour. Ambrose is evidently only lucid for about an hour each ç
evening around midnight.

 Trian, a young minstrel: He tells you about Goeth's speech ç
impediment (or dementia), and tells you about Thorne and the help ç
he can give.

 MINOC

 Minoc is located far north and east of the main continent. There ç
is a moongate in the vicinity, and its harbor is protected by ç
Lighthouse Stormcrow. The town is one level with an armoury,  ç
shipwright, and healer having second floor living quarters. You ç
will find the Mantra of Sacrifice (CAH) here. There is also a
Mission for the poor here. The people and important clues:

 Tactus, an obvious follower of Blackthorn's: Ask him about the ç
Oppression and he will direct you to Judge Dryden in Yew.

 Fenelon: She makes sails for Captain Blythe and is the daughter ç
of Fiona. She will tell you that the guard is off at lunch time ç
and at night, and that you should enter and leave the town then ç
to avoid him.

 Fiona: She runs the Poorhouse and was a former Council Member. ç
She will give you the Word of Power (INFAMA) to open the Dungeon ç
Shame.

 The Beggar: Give him some charity, and he will tell you about ç
Shenstone the Armourer who sneaks around town at noontime. If you ç
follow Shenstone, he will lead you to a tree in the northwestern ç
corner of Minoc. Search the tree, and get some badly needed Skull ç
Keys.

 MOONGLOW

 Moonglow is located on a large island due east of Brittany Bay. ç
On this island is The Lyceum and a moongate. Lighthouse Waveguide ç
is just to the west of the island. Moonglow is one level with ç
towers and walkways that have two levels. Actually, there is çälittle of interest in these towers. Ee them if you like. Let ç
me stress the words of caution given earlier: Avoid the guards! ç
The town's main attractions are a tavern and an apothecary. ç
Reagents (Ash, Garlic, Nightshade, Ginseng, and Mandrake) are ç
probably as inexpensive here as anywhere in the domain. In the ç
Tavern you will meet Lord Stuart, who will tell you about the ç
Spell to make food. It is a second circle spell (IN EX MANI) and ç
requires Ginseng, Garlic and Mandrake. Actually, food created ç
this way is very expensive. The use of this spell is recommended ç
only in a major pinch. The Gypsy will give you the Mantra of ç
Honesty (AHM). Zaccariah, who tends the Observatory atop the ç
central tower in this town, explains a little about Astronomy, ç
and tells you about Goeth in Jhelom, who "can tell you about the ç
Moonstones." He is also a former Council Member, who can give you ç
the Word of Power (AVIDUS) to open Dungeon Covetous.

 NEW MAGINCIA

 New Magincia is located on a small island in the east part of ç
the ocean between Brittany Bay and Moonglow. There is a moongate ç
nearby. This town has been established on the ruins of Magincia, ç
which was destroyed prior to the ULTIMA IV scenario. It is a ç
farming community. There is a tavern where you can buy food. ç
Otherwise, its prime importance is the conversation its citizens ç
can offer. The people of New Magincia move from place to place  ç
depending on the time of day. Most of their conversation is ç
philosophical and political about the problems in the realm ç
caused by the loss of Lord British, and the rise to power of ç
Blackthorn. Shirita, who tends the cemetery, tells you about the ç
history of New Magincia, and tells you to visit the town's  ç
recluse for some information about the virtue of Humility. The ç
recluse, Wartow, gives you the Mantra of Humility (LUM). Kaiko ç
relates to you the story of Hassad, one of the former Council ç
Members, who spent time with them during his flight from Skara ç
Brae, before Blackthorn caught him and imprisoned him in Castle ç
Blackthorn's dungeon. Felicity will tell you to talk to the ç
Daemon in the desert, for he has knowledge about Lord British. ç
(Note: One of this location's residents may join your party
if you ask.)

 SKARA BRAE

 Skara Brae is located on an island off the western coast of the ç
main continent, and south and west from Britain. There is a  ç
moongate on the island, which can be reached by skiff (if you ç
have the courage and time to sail along the coast all the way ç
from Britain). The town has an apothecary, a healer, an inn, and ç
a mysterious, hard-to-access tower at its center. Reagents  ç
available for purchase at the apothecary are Ash, Ginseng, Blood ç
Moss, and Black Pearl. By the way, the globe in the Apothecary ç
will give you a view of the town; it can also shock the devil out ç
of you! The healer is the cheapest in the realm, and she will ç
actually perform her work free if you are without funds. The ç
mysterious tower can be entered by using an IN EX POR to unlock ç
the door. Fight the bat, unlock the door, fight the bat, ad  çänauseam, or until the last bat is deaimbing to the top level ç
reveals a surly (and I do mean surly!) wizard and a telescope. ç
The wizard will talk to you when you ask about the Oppression, ç
but he wants you to rat on the Council Members for the ç
information he has, which is that you should talk to Tactus in ç
Minoc. The other residents of interest:

 Saul: He tells you about Kindor, who is recuperating from a ç
battle with the Shadowlords, and who is usually available at the ç
healers at 6 p.m. each day.

 Kindor: He will give you the Mantra for the Shrine of ç
Spirituality (OM), and will tell you to talk to the Lady Janell ç
in The Lyceum for the Shrine's location.

 Froed: He's in the grove of trees and will tell you his father ç
is imprisoned in Yew. He asks you to go tell him that is son is ç
fine.

 TRINSIC

 Trinsic is located almost due south of Brittany Bay on the ç
eastern coast of the main continent. Trinsic has an armoury, a ç
healer, and a fine stable. Here you learn the Mantra of Honor ç
(SUMM). From the old, sleep-walking Wizard Sindar, who was a ç
former Council Member, you learn the Word of Power (IGNAVUS) to  ç
open Dungeon Hythloth. Gruman may join your party if you ask at ç
the right time. Otherwise, Trinsic offers little of value.

 
 





 ULTIMA V
  Part 4

 THE VILLAGES

 There are six villages scattered around the kingdom: East ç
Brittany, North Brittany, West Brittany, Buccaneer's Den, Cove, ç
and Paws.

 THE BRITTANYS

 The Brittanys (East, North, and West) lie around Lord British's ç
Castle, and provide services to this region. In East Brittany you ç
can buy a ship from the shipwright. By talking to Sir Adam, The ç
Torch, you'll learn that there is a way to make ships go faster. ç
Actually, if you search this building thoroughly, you will find ç
the plans to HMS Cape, which when used aboard a ship, will cause ç
it to go very rapidly, but not without some peril.
ä North Brittany is a farming community. Don't eat food from the ç
field or off the tables; such actions are harmful to your virtue!  ç
One of the farmers may join your party if asked correctly, and if ç
you know the Resistance password. You can get a horse from the ç
stable here. Also the stable boy, Kurt, will give you some ç
insight into the horses of the land, and direct you to Treanna in ç
the Castle's stable.

 West Brittany is also a farming community whose residents are ç
hard working. Talk to them to get a flavor of what is happening ç
in Britannia; otherwise, they have little to offer.

 BUCCANEER'S DEN

 Buccaneer's Den is a very interesting place. It offers a guild ç
where very exotic things can be purchased (if you can find its ç
entrance), an Armoury (which offers among its "goodies" a Ring of ç
Invisibility), an inn, restaurant, and a ship builder. You will ç
meet Geoffrey, an old friend from ULTIMA IV, who is willing to ç
join your quest. The village is located on a small island south ç
and east from Brittany Bay. Entry to the Guild is best gained ç
from outside the village walls; there is a secret door due east ç
of the main entrance, which can be opened with an IN EX POR ç
spell. You can exit through the fireplace. A secret door in the ç
northeast corner of the shop leads to a passageway, which will ç
take you back into the main part of the town. This is especially ç
helpful since the village gates are closed at night. The guild ç
offering is standard -- keys, gems and torches. (Note: For those ç
who played ULTIMA IV, the sextant is not available
as an unlisted item here, as it was in the former scenario.) In ç
the tavern you will meet Tierra. Buy her a drink and she will  ç
tell you about Bidney, who knows how to climb mountains. When you ç
get Bidney (who is the town drunk) to talk about his mountain ç
climbing days, he will tell you to see Lord Michael in Empath ç
Abbey, and ask him about the Grapple. Scalley, the town's bard,  ç
will tell you the story of a seaman named David, who now tends a  ç
lighthouse (Grayhaven). David is the answer to the sextant ç
question many of us had.

 COVE

 Cove is still as hidden as it was in ULTIMA IV, but is now  ç
easier to get to by use of a ship/skiff or the magic carpet. It ç
lies north and east of Brittany Bay on the south side of the ç
large inland lake. The Apothecary in Cove offers Silk, Moss, ç
Pearl, Nightshade, and Mandrake for your spell mixing. There are ç
three people in Cove who have two very important clues:

 The Twins, Leona and Ava, priestesses in the Temple: They relate ç
to you the route to the Shard of Falsehood. To quote: "In the ç
deep of night, many moons ago, a vision came unto my sister and ç
I. We saw the Shard of Falsehood deep below a dungeon named ç
Deceit. The path that was revealed traveled first southwest ç
across many high peaks, opening to a large system of caverns. ç
Then the way lead southwest. At a major intersection it turned çänorthwest, soon branching northeaster a long journey ç
northward, the passage turned west. Here the path went on to  ç
rocky hills to the southwest, then turned northwest. Over a lake ç
it ran, unto a massive series of great falls, ending in a larger ç
lake. Here upon a small isle lies the Shard of Falsehood." ç
Unfortunately, the instructions end here, and there are no ç
directions for your return. (See the section on the Underworld ç
for further discussion of this problem.)

 Ambrose, who resides with the Healer where he is recuperating ç
from wounds sustained while searching for the Mystics, awakes at ç
midnight daily: He tells you that these magical weapons and ç
armour are located north of the Underworld entrance to Hythloth, ç
across some mountains, and in a lava field.

 PAWS

 Paws is located on the southern shore of Brittany Bay. It offers ç
travelers an inn and a tavern for rest and nourishment. There is ç
a stable called Wishing Well. This is a hint of what the various ç
wishing wells throughout the realm will do. At the wells, pay one ç
gold piece, and wish for a horse. At many such locations you will ç
be provided with a ride. The guild provides keys, gems, and ç
torches. You will meet Bandaii, a mage, who will tell you about a ç
talking horse named Smith. This fabulous creature can actually be ç
found in Iolo's barn. The words he can speak will restore shrines ç
destroyed by Lord Blackthorn. (This is rumor and legend to this ç
Avatar, as all shrines were found intact when I reached them.) It ç
is also said that if questioned correctly, you can obtain a ç
flying carpet from Bandaii.

 THE LIGHTHOUSES

 There are four lighthouses: Stormcrow, Grayhaven, Waveguide, and ç
Fogsbane.
   Stormcrow is located near Minoc and protects its harbor. ç
Windemere, the lighthouse keeper, warns you about leaving a ship ç
in the port of Minoc. Windemere's wife, Emily, has little to add ç
which will help you.

 Grayhaven is located on the southern tip of the main continent ç
south of Trinsic. Here you will meet Lord Kenneth, who will teach ç
you to play the Harpsichord using the music Stones printed in the ç
Book of Lore. You must take this lesson and learn it well if you ç
want to complete the game, since a very important artifact is ç
available, but only to those who know how to play. (See Lord ç
British's Castle.) David, the lighthouse keeper, will give you ç
the Sextant when you ask him about it. Arbuthnot, the royal ç
coinmaker, tells you the story of the Coin of the Codex, and you ç
will meet David's son, Anthony.

 Waveguide, which is just off the coast of Moonglow's island, is ç
tended by Gregory, a very caustic and unfriendly man, and his  ç
spaced-out wife, Jacqueline. Neither offered any words of wisdom ç
to this Avatar when he visited and was rudely asked to leave çätheir island.

 Fogsbane, which protects the harbor at Brittany Bay, is tended ç
by Jotham and his granddaughter, Jennifer. Although both are very ç
hospitable, neither is able to provide insights needed for your ç
quest.

 THE HUTS

 There are four huts to visit: Iolo's hut, where you begin the ç
game; the Daemon's hut in the desert; the Alchemist's hut on the ç
shore north and east of Brittany Bay; and Sutek's Hut, which is ç
on an island in the southern ocean.

 Iolo's hut is warm and cozy, but you cannot stay, for the great ç
Quest of the Avatar awaits you, Iolo, and Shamino (who are a part ç
of your immediate starting party). Exploration of the area around ç
this hut, which is located deep in the woods south of Yew, will ç
reveal a stable. Later in the game, Smith (the talking horse) ç
will be there and talk with you. Some say his words have the ç
power to restore shrines destroyed by Blackthorn. There is a ç
wishing well here. You might try wishing for a horse so you can ç
ride to your next destination.

 In the desert to the far northeast of Brittany Bay, you will ç
find the hut of the Daemon. Getting there is half the fun. You ç
will run into many Sand Traps, which are almost indestructible. ç
Use the flying carpet to save yourself some frustrations. The ç
Daemon reveals the coordinates of the Shard of Hatred (I'A"-I'A") ç
in the Underworld, and that it can be reached from the dungeons ç
by Lost Hope Bay (Covetous and Wrong).

 The Alchemist will teach you a new spell: REL XEN BET. This ç
sixth circle magic is composed of Silk, Ash, Mandrake, and ç
Nightshade, and will turn foes to rats, making them easier to ç
kill. This spell is especially useful for getting rid of dragons, ç
but Daemons seem to have a resistance to it.

 Sutek, whose hut is on an island in the southern ocean, relates ç
to you the proper method for using the Shards to dispose of the ç
Shadowlords. He tells you that you must stand before the proper ç
flame (Love, Truth, and Courage), call the name of the ç
appropriate Shadowlord, and when he appears and is standing in ç
the flame, (U)se that Shard. After the fireworks, the Shadowlord ç
will be gone. Sutek explains the origin of the Shards for those ç
who are really into the history of the land.

 THE MINOR KEEPS
                                   
 There are four minor keeps: Bordermarch, Farthing, Windemere, ç
and Stonegate. They are all hidden in obscure locations ç
throughout Britannia.

 Bordermarch is nestled in the mountains of an island off the ç
western coast of Britannia. You will need the Grapple to climb çäthe mountains to reach this keep. Sing the keep will reveal ç
an Armoury in the northwest tower. Here you can buy Rings of ç
Regeneration. This artifact is handy for regenerating your ç
party's hit points while traveling. You will meet Dupre, a ç
shining paladin and friend from ULTIMA IV, and he will offer to ç
join you. Lady Tessa will tell you all you need to know about ç
Lord British's Amulet, including the fact that without it, you ç
cannot find the entrance to DOOM. Sir Simon gives you the ç
information you need about the Crown and Sceptre. The Sceptre can ç
dispel magical force fields, and the crown absorbs all magic -- ç
no matter how powerful. All three of these artifacts are ç
absolutely necessary in order for you to complete the Quest of ç
the Avatar successfully.

 Farthing can be found on a small island off the southwestern tip ç
of Britannia. Again, you will need to search the island and climb  ç
a few mountains to locate the keep. Once in the keep, you will ç
meet some interesting people. Quinton, the keep's cook, tells you ç
about Britannia's biggest gossip, Telila, who lives in Britain; ç
he tells you to ask her about rumors or gossip. Dufus, a clumsy ç
boy who is apprentice to the mage, Temme, tells you of a spyglass ç
owned by the keep's owner, Lord Segallion. When you meet Lord ç
Segallion and ask him about the spyglass, he will give it to you ç
if you can answer his question. The poser he gives you is: "What ç
is it the eight planets represent?" The answer: Virtues. With the ç
spyglass, you can check the heavens in the evening to locate the ç
Shadowlords. Temme, a mage of great repute, tells you of a new ç
spell she has invented: AN YLEM. It will cause things to ç
disappear. The problem is she cannot remember which reagents she  ç
used; they were either Ash and Mandrake, or Garlic and Blood ç
Moss. You might experiment. I didn't, and I finished the quest ç
without ever knowing.

 Windemere can be found on an island to the far north and east of ç
the realm. Here you will meet Elistaria, who will give you the ç
Black Badge of the Oppression when you can tell her the ç
Oppression's password (IMPERA). She will also tell you that Thrud  ç
has other things for you. Thrud has a sword and shield, which I ç
found had little use or value. But the Black Badge, along with ç
the password of the Oppression, are the keys to a successful ç
foray on Blackthorn's Castle, and the acquisition of the Crown of ç
Lord British.

 Stonegate, the home of the Shadowlords, can be found in the ç
mountains north of Cove. You will need to climb the mountains to  ç
secure entrance, and the pass is from the west side of the range. ç
Use a gem to locate the access; however, do not waste your time ç
in trying to assault this keep until you have disposed of the ç
Shadowlords. Once you have taken care of all three of them, the ç
entry to the keep and acquisition of Lord British's Sceptre is ç
fairly easy. At the door to the keep you will meet a Daemon, who ç
will pose you a riddle. Don't even bother trying to figure it out ç
because it makes no difference whether you answer it correctly or ç
not: He will still attack you. Just kill the sucker, and go on ç
in.äThe Sceptre is in the center of the keep, but board your carpet ç
to get it or you will be sorry. Actually, using the carpet is the ç
only way to get the Sceptre. Once you have it, leave. There is ç
little else of interest in this keep.

 THE CODEX

 There is a large island in the far southeastern part of the ç
ocean. This is the island on which the original entry to the ç
Codex in ULTIMA IV was located. The path leading to the Shrine ç
itself is quite obvious. Park your ship, take your skiff, dock, ç
and walk up the path past the Guardians. You had better have a ç
quest assigned from one of the Shrines, or you will not be able ç
to pass. If you enter the Shrine to the Codex, everything else ç
will be automatic. Once finished here, return to the Shrine from ç
which you received the quest, and receive your reward.









 ULTIMA V
  Part 5

 THE UNDERWORLD

 There is one thing to bear in mind about the Underworld: It is ç
huge! One should not explore the Underworld without a specific ç
quest; random wandering is discouraged -- that is, unless you ç
relish the idea of relentless attacks by Mongbats, and other ç
creatures who are almost indestructible.

 There are two ways to get to the Underworld: by accident and by ç
design. Let's dispose of the former. As you explore the oceans of ç
Britannia, you will see your old "friend": the whirlpool from ç
previous ULTIMAs. Unfortunately, you WANT to avoid this ç
whirlpool, for it will whisk you and your party off to the ç
Underworld without proper preparation (or, more importantly, a ç
way back to the surface). It is, therefore, advisable to save ç
your game any time you are beginning an ocean voyage. If you get ç
caught in a whirlpool, you will probably want to quit and restore ç
from that point. Actually, you can explore, earn experience and ç
treasure, then "die" and be taken back to Lord British's Castle; ç
however, there are more interesting ways to accomplish the same ç
goals in this game.

 Instead, let's discuss planned trips into the Underworld. And, ç
planned trips they should be! To be able to sustain the many ç
dangers -- and frustrations -- you and your party will encounter, ç
characters should be at least fifth or sixth level. You will need ç
the best armour and weapons you can obtain at this point in the çägame. The magic axe is probably tht weapon you can use, and ç
one of your Underworld quests will provide you with the Mystical ç
Armour (and weapons) which provide the best protection. Absolute ç
"musts" to have with you: the magic carpet, the mountain climbing ç
grapple, many gems for viewing, and several moonstones (you have ç
learned how to obtain the moonstones, haven't you?). You should ç
have as many reagents as you can afford, and be sure to mix many ç
cure poison (AN NOX) spells. On one of your quests, you will need ç
a LOT of IN POR spells also. One of the most helpful artifacts ç
you can have with you (in addition to the suggested inventory) is ç
the Ring of Invisibility. Generally, you can equip one member of ç
the party with this ring and remove all others from the screen ç
during combat; the monsters will think everyone has left, and you ç
will win the battle. Unfortunately, you will only get points for ç
the monsters actually killed. While helpful in the Underworld, ç
the Ring of Invisibility is an absolute MUST in the Dungeons.

 The quests can be categorized into four areas: search for the ç
Amulet, obtain the Shards, quest for the Mystics, and enter Doom. ç
Besides the whirlpool mentioned above, there are two planned ç
methods for reaching the Underworld. The order in which you ç
perform these quests (except for entering Doom, which must come ç
last) is immaterial. However, acquiring the Shards and disposing ç
of the Shadowlords was high on this Avatar's list of priorities!

 To obtain Lord British's Amulet, you must read and follow ç
Remoh's Journal, which is contained in the boxed game material. ç
This entrance to the Underworld is through a small lake to the ç
east of Spiritwood, which lies to the south and west of Lord ç
British's Castle. Getting to the lake is a real pain, as you must ç
get there by skiff. The best plan is to sail your schooner around ç
the southern tip of the continent, then up the west coast to the ç
group of islands at the entrance to the large bay just south of ç
Spiritwood. Board your skiff at this point, and sail up the river ç
to the small lake that empties over a waterfall. Sail into the ç
lake and into the waterfalls. Voila! You are in the Underworld. ç
From this point, and until you reach the Amulet, follow EXACTLY ç
the route taken by Lord British and his group as reported by the ç
Scribe Remoh in his Journal. These directions are quite clear and ç
don't need to be repeated here. Once you have the Amulet, you ç
will be faced with the problem of getting back. Remember the ç
impassable waterfalls and obstacles you passed getting here? ç
Returning the way you came is impossible. You will have to use a ç
Moonstone. Plant it and return to the surface. (Make sure you ç
record where you use each moonstone. If you don't, you may find ç
yourself teleporting endlessly around the Underworld later in the ç
game.)

 Each of the three Shards is obtained by entering the Underworld ç
via one of the dungeons. The Shard of Falsehood is from Deceit, ç
the Shard of Hatred is from Covetous or Wrong, and the Shard of ç
Cowardice is from Hythloth.

 If you talked to the twins in the Temple in Cove, you got very ç
detailed instructions on how to get to the Shard of Falsehood.  çäWhat these young ladies failed to you was how to get back to ç
the Dungeon entrance. If you follow their instructions closely, ç
you will find a series of waterfalls, which end in a lake, in the ç
middle of which is an island on which the Shard of Falsehood ç
rests. You will obviously need the flying carpet to get it. Once  ç
obtained, you would normally try to hike, fly, or climb to get ç
back; fortunately, you have this walkthru to save you lots of ç
frustration! There are three ways to get back: Use a moonstone, ç
climb some mountains, or commit suicide. The easiest way is to ç
plant a moonstone, and return to the surface. There is a passage ç
through the mountains to the east of the island. It requires lots ç
of exploration (the magic gems come in handy here) and hit points  ç
to get through, but once you're through this mountain chain, you ç
will be near the dungeon entrance.

 The last way is to allow your party to run out of hit points, ç
die, and be returned to Lord British's Castle. Somehow, to me, ç
this did not seem like the hero's way out! So you have the Shard ç
of Falsehood and are back in Britannia. Other parts of this ç
walkthru will cover what to do with the Shard.

 The Shard of Hatred is probably the easiest to find in the ç
Underworld. From the Dungeon (either Covetous or Wrong), use a ç
gem, and look for an area which is surrounded by paths. It will ç
appear that you cannot enter because of the mountains. There is a ç
path through the mountains from the northwest. The actual path ç
will require exploration, use of gems, and lots of hit points. To ç
get back to Britannia, another moonstone is suggested; however, ç
you will need to return near to the dungeon entrance to use it. ç
For some reason, I was never able to plant the moonstone in the ç
enclosed area where the Shard was found.

 From Dungeon Hythloth you can take care of two quests. The ç
Mystical Armour and the Mystical Arms are found in the center of ç
a cross-shaped lava field to the north of the dungeon entrance. ç
Again, as with much of the Underworld, you will need to climb ç
mountains to get there, which requires many hit points and heal ç
spells and potions. To obtain the Mystics, walk into the lava ç
field and position the party just south of the center. Have each ç
character S)earch twice.

 For the Shard of Cowardice, you will need a BUNCH of IN POR ç
spells and gems. This area of the Underworld is like many rooms ç
without any doors. The only way to get from room to room is to ç
position the party at the furthest point of the direction in ç
which you want to move, and cast an IN POR. Start from the area ç
in which the dungeon entrance is located, and IN POR west until ç
you can go no further. To tell where the boundaries to this area ç
are, if you use a gem, you will not see any additional open ç
spaces. Generally, the whole area is shaped like a long  ç
rectangle. Once you have the pattern down, just IN POR from area ç
to area, search the area thoroughly (the Shard is in plain ç
sight), gather experience, and then you are ready go back to the ç
entrance to Hythloth. This dungeon was the only one I found that ç
could be re-entered for travel back to the surface.ä
 Now you have the Amulet, the three Shards have been obtained and ç
used, you have the party equipped with the Mystics, and you're ç
ready (hopefully!) to begin the final quest of the game. For the ç
trek to Doom, you will need a little more preparation than that ç
which was required at the beginning of this section. Since you ç
will be entering the end-game phase, your Avatar should be at ç
least level eight. The spells of the Eighth Circle are very nice ç
to have. You will absolutely have to have the following with you,  ç
because once you reach and enter Doom, there is no turning back. ç
In addition to the Amulet, you need the Crown, Sceptre, and the ç
mysterious box from Lord British's private apartment atop his ç
Castle. You need the carpet, as well as many reagents and mixed ç
spells as possible, and lots of food. Okay, if you're ready, ç
let's go to Dungeon Shame and enter the Underworld.

 At the Underworld entrance to Shame, board your magic carpet. ç
The ground in this part of the Underworld is deadly swamp. Travel ç
due east as far as you can go. Use a gem, and you should see an ç
area to the west which is grassland bordered on the east by ç
water. IN POR to the east, and travel by carpet to the island, ç
which has many lava flows and mountains. Again, be prepared to ç
take lots of damage trying to reach your goal. Equip the Amulet. ç
Repeat, equip (Use) the Amulet, enter one of the lava streams, ç
and walk towards the center of the island. You will come to ç
darkness. Enter the dark area and use a gem. The Amulet allows ç
you to "see" the entrance of Doom. Work your way to it, enter, ç
and begin the final stages of the QUEST of the AVATAR.







 ULTIMA V
  Part 6

 So you've destroyed the Shadowlords, completed all of the shrine ç
quests, gathered a group of powerful heroes, and recovered all of ç
Lord British's items (including the Sandalwood Box!). Your ç
incredible quest is almost at its end. Take a breather, then ç
enter Dungeon Doom.

 Level 1: You'll find yourself in a strange room with ethereal  ç
walls that appear to hide any exit. It's time to use Lord ç
British's Sceptre. Walk over to one of the walls (I went west) ç
and use it. The power of the sceptre will cause the walls near ç
you to disappear. Walk through (it doesn't matter which direction  ç
you go). Walk down the corridor until you find a ladder. Klimb ç
down.

 Level 2: View a gem. Get oriented, and then walk forward a ç
space, turn left, walk forward twice, turn left, then walk ç
forward to the down ladder, and Klimb down.ä
 Level 3: View a gem again. The room you want to go to is the ç
farthest to the east, and lies beyond those secret doors.  ç
Depending on which route you have taken so far, this route will ç
be different. From wherever you are, though, head east. The way ç
through the secret door is east. Enter the room, and defeat the ç
demons. You should know good battle tactics by now. The only ç
trouble you should have in this room is with the ghostly "ward" ç
blocking your passage. The sceptre will destroy it as it did at ç
the start of Doom. Klimb down the ladder twice to
level 5.

 Level 5: You may want to save your game at some time; just keep ç
this in mind. Fortunately, ULTIMA V allows us that privilege. ç
From here go east to an up portal. Using a gem, you'll find that ç
this level is shaped like a diagonal 8. Again, you may have taken ç
a different route, in which case you would go west to the other, ç
north up portal. Whichever you use, go up.

 Level 4: You should be in a "plus" shaped room. Walk into the ç
center of the "plus," then descend through the portal.

 Level 5, again: It's another of those wacky repeat levels seen ç
so often in the ULTIMAs. Go east to the crossroads, then turn ç
right, and go forward twice. Take this ladder up.

 Level 4, again: From here, jog east a couple of squares, then ç
descend the portal (it may be concealed). Klimb down from the ç
ladder on Level 5. Welcome to Level 6.

 Level 6: Go north a square, turn right, forward four times, turn ç
right, forward three times, turn left, then forward into the ç
room. Basically, just follow the corridor. Once in the room, ç
polish off its denizens, then head north. You'll find a ladder at ç
the end of the corridor. Take it down to Level 7.

 Level 7: Here we'll do something tricky. If you kept going down, ç
you'd end up at level 8, but it would only be a turnaround back ç
up to level 6. So let's see what's in this little room to the ç
south. Geez! Demons, Dragons, Sandtraps, oh my! With luck, your ç
Avatar or wizard is eighth level. It is now IN VAS GRAV CORP or ç
IN FLAM HUR time. The aforementioned spells work splendidly in ç
this room. Finish off the incinerated inhabitants, pick up your ç
spoils, and find the ladder down (in the middle of the room). Go ç
down.

 Level 8: Your quest is almost over. At this point, exhale ç
voluntarily. Feels good to have almost completed ULTIMA V, eh? ç
The rest of Doom is a convoluted contortion of some "Chutes and ç
Ladders" offshoot. Right now, though, you're in a room filled ç
with nasties. Position your mage at the bottom of the screen, ç
then start lobbing your magic axes toward the northwest corner. ç
There is a secret door trigger there somewhere. When you hit it, ç
a slew of mongbats will parade out of a new opening. IN VAS GRAV ç
CORP them (or IN FLAM HUR). Crisp, crisp, crisp little bats!  çäDance wildly through the passage to est. Go up the ladder in ç
the corridor.

 Level 7: Here's a neat room. After defeating the foul host, find ç
the secret triggers on the east wall (three of them, I believe). ç
After opening the passage, hike north, then take the ladder or ç
down portal (whichever) down.
                           
 Level 8: Go west from the portal, then take the ladder up.

 Level 7: View a gem. There should be a down portal in the middle ç
of this "C." Take it down.

 Level 8: You'll end up on an isle in the middle of a tiny lake. ç
Fight your way off, then walk around in the north. A trigger ç
should open a passage in the northeast corner. Go into the ç
passage, and push around. Another passage will open to the east. ç
Go through it, then klimb up to level 7.

 Level 7: This room is fairly similar to the one higher up on ç
level 3. Kill the demons, then run to the east after using the ç
sceptre -- a pool of fire usually springs up. Exit the room, and ç
search in front of you. I wonder where that pit leads to? Take it ç
down.

 An odd room. Definitely not the kind of thing you'd normally see ç
in a dungeon. Are you at the core of the world? Where's Lord ç
British? Search around. I will leave the final "puzzle" up to ç
you. Once you've found out where you need to go, go there.

 Congratulations on the completion of a truly wondrous game! Good ç
thing you brought that sandalwood box along. Revel in your glory, ç
and prepare for the next of Lord British's unique gaming ç
experiences -- ULTIMA VI. Just as ULTIMA V has defied the law of ç
sequels, I am confident that ULTIMA VI will, as well.

 Always remember: The quest of the Avatar is forever!

 ****Call Dark Domain BBS ----- The Raven*****
                              
 




                                         



 ULTIMA V
  Part 7

 MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS

 The following paragraphs will give specific information that's çäuseful in obtaining Lord British'sn jewels, which are needed ç
to complete your quest.

 Crown: The crown can be easily retrieved with the use of the ç
magic carpet. This item is within Blackthorn's castle (located at ç
position P'F"-M'E", or west from the Codex). The crown is located ç
on the top level. This is how to get there:

 From the entrance of Blackthorn's castle go north, and go up ç
either one of the stairways located on the back wall. You will ç
arrive and see a man sitting in a chair. Go through the secret ç
door behind the ladder, and then go up the ladder right after it. ç
You will find yourself in Blackthorn's throne room. Do not talk ç
to Blackthorn or the jester. Go through the door on the north  ç
wall (not the secret one), and up the ladder. You're on the roof. ç
On the southern side is the entrance to the chamber with the ç
crown. Try to avoid the Gargoyles, for they are hard to kill and ç
will duplicate like slime. Use a skull key to open the door and ç
get the crown. The crown will absorb all magic used against you.

 Amulet: The amulet is located in the Underworld and is found by ç
reading the journal of Lord British's travels which come packaged  ç
with the game. The following is a summary of the directions:

 Enter the waterfall located in Spiritwood (I'J"-D'G"), and you ç
will end up in the Underworld. From there, travel south along the ç
river. Soon you will come to a fork leading east and south; take ç
the southern route. Continue past the waterfall, and take the ç
west route at the next fork. Continue north from here. You will ç
go through a waterfall and then into a lake. Go south, following ç
the shore, until you come to two streams; take the western one. ç
Follow this stream, through three waterfalls, into another lake. ç
Here, you should see a rowboat. Follow the footpath south into a ç
grassy area. Go through the north exit, which will lead to an  ç
eastern path. Soon your path will turn south and you will enter ç
into an area of swamps. There is a passage out to the northeast. ç
This path will eventually lead to the "grave of lost souls," ç
which is where the amulet is hidden.

 Sceptre: The sceptre is located within the Shadowlords' castle. ç
This castle is locked in by mountains and is located at E'K"-ç
J'E". No spells can be cast in this castle, and all three ç
Shadowlords will be there. The sceptre is in the center of the ç
castle. Just enter (use the skull keys to get in), and go north ç
until you see the sceptre. It is surrounded by trapdoors, which ç
will drop you into a screen of fire; you will die if you fall. ç
The solution to this is to use the magic carpet. The sceptre is ç
used to dispel magic fields anywhere.

 POTIONS AND SCROLLS

 There are many extremely useful potions and scrolls in ULTIMA V. ç
They are usually found in bookshelves or under beds. Here is a ç
list of these useful potions and scrolls, and their functions:
ä POTIONS:

 Purple - Turns player into a rat, just like the spell.
 Black - Turns player invisible for combat. Same as a Ring of ç
 Invisibility.
 White - Gives a short view of the non-combat, non-dungeon ç
 screen. Very handy in the Underworld!
 Yellow - Performs a heal spell on the player it's used on.
 Green - Poisons the player it's used on.
 Orange - Performs a sleep spell on the player it's used on.
 Blue - Casts awaken on a player.
 Red - Cures a player of poison.


 SCROLLS

 Purple - Rel Xen Bet (1 Sp Silk, 1 S Ash, 1 Mandrake, 1 ç
 Nightshade) Rat Spell Black - Sanct Lor
 White - Wis An Ylem
 Yellow - Mani, occasionally Vas Mani (unpredictable)
 Green - In Nox Grav (on player); not really applicable to spell
 Orange - In Zu Grav (on player); not really applicable to spell
 Blue - An Zu
 Red - An Nox (Extremely handy!!!)

 
 

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
