Principia Entropius Book Two >>The Principia EntroHocusPocus
Part five of 15
----------------------------------
         The Book of Explanations:


         Early Explanations of the Froot Loops Faith:
       Ancient Scriptures written By Ancient Hittite
             S'wingitus D'ickitius the Younger,
               Translated from the Cuniform

This is the froot loops, It is place where naked women,who are all 
Quite good looking and single, Converse about how they would 
like to meet a Computer geek, or complete stranger over the bbs. 
You are fotunate to even be in this Extremely Useful Echo area.
Well  it is actually not a place where Naked Women, Converse about  
how they would like to meet a Computer Geek, or complete stranger 
over the bbs. I chose the namefroot loops, because I figured it 
would make most people curious. 
I am not in the habit of explaining anything I do on BBS's, 
because Fear and Ignorance, are my two favorite tools. 
Since I am no longer a sysop, but a moderator I figure, 
I might want to explain a little here in the beginning. 
Think of this as an Ancient Roman Forum, where Ideas 
and Thoughts are presented and debated by anyone who feels 
like participating, and those that participate feel
a sense of joy and Community involvement. 
No, Come to think of it, thats not at all
what this net is about, Let me try again.
  Think of this Echo, as a Bunch of frightened monkeys, 
hiding in an open field under a single tree,in the cold rain. 
With The Larger Monkeys, Taking their place high in
the tree, only to be struck by lightning. The Smaller, 
weaker monkeys are easy prey for the Roaming Jackals. 
When the rain ends, nothing but dead, smoking Monkey
flesh remains....No thats not at all what this echo is about, 
Forget all that too.
  Ok, Picture the above two Examples, Mixed together into one 
  concept. Throw in a Moderator...Now do not think of 
  me as the typical moderator. Over time, you
will get to Know me, I am Called "Swinging Dick" by my friends, 
but you may call me "John Kanash", I have been known to answer 
to "ALL" from time to time.
Thats not important right now. I am open to alot of ideas, 
I will gladly converse with just about anyone, 
regarding almost any subject, however since this is my net, from
time to time I will declare a topic or present some information. 
  All I need you, as a user to do, is to Read it all very carefully, 
comment on it, and Apply negative advertising about this 
echo everywhere you go. What I mean is,
insist that people not  Read this echo, 
Tell the sysops to stop carrying it in the name
of decency, Warn people not to get embroiled in the discussions 
in this echo. This will result in alot of people doing 
just the oppisite of What you tell them. 
I am not sure, but I call this Phenomenon 
"Swinging Dicks First Law of Cheese"
There is no reason for that, I just thought I would share it with you.
 Remember when negative advertising the Echo, 
 to inadvertently, but blatantly tell  people how to get to the Echo. 
  The name of this Echo, is Currently froot loops as you probably know. 
This is subject to change, periodically, so do not get too attached 
to the name. I am a big fan of mediocrity, and  the chinsey, 
and gaudy aspects of life, and hopefully
this echo will reflect that. I Also tend to refer 
to an "Echo" as a "NET", however the "NET" represents a 
group of Echo's,  You will have to learn to live with it.
 I will be posting The Rules of this Echo, The sysops carrying the 
echo, have the responsibility to scan for "OFFICIAL RULES".  
They must the Correlate them, Zip them, Convert them to Gifs, 
then into .PCX files, IF time permits, they should
read them aloud in sound files. They should make them available 
for Download, Users should then Download them, and Print them 
onto Parchment colored Paper,or If they do not have parchment, 
should atleast use a nice border to surround the 
text, Then Place them into a black, plastic 3-ring binder. 
Do not use one or two ring binders, as there is a greater chance 
the paper can be torn out, and you might lose one
of the valued rules. These rules are to be guarded dearly, 
and coveted like religious Artifacts. Failure to follow even 
One of them will result in  Extreme pain, Monstorous
amounts of Bullshit, Monogamy, And eventual death threats.  
This is not limited to the "rule breaker" or offender. 
I may punish someone who is completely innocent, as a warning to the 
offender. I ofcourse, am not limited to following the rules, as 
I will be to busy making up new ones, and conducting indepth 
investigations and Trial revue boards. Pressing "N" or ">enter<" or 
any number, or any key on your keyboard
means that you accept this as gospel, and that you are 
more than willing to suffer the consequences, and possibly have 
a good time on thefroot loops. 
                                           Thanks very little,
                                                   Swinging Dick!

BTW---Please ignore the above text, do not read it, or believe it.

 ---------------------

Explanation #2:
  There is no explantion.

Explanation #3:
  fnord.

Explanation #4
 it is 5 tonnes of flaxxe

 ------------------------------------------

 --I did not know I was looking in the womens showers, honest...
            ----Early confused pre-teen Erisian
                   book of explanation
                   part five, of 15 
                   book two principia Entropius.
                   ------------------------------



 
