                  First Untied Church Kalisti
                            Tenets
                         - Copyright 1992 by Grinning Coyote

1.  First Untied Church Kalisti (hereafter known as
    F.U.C.K.) is a Religious Organization dedicated to the
    Illumination of Humanity to its highest potential.  This
    Illumination is given by electronic media as messages
    and text files on electronic bulletin board systems
    (BBSs) located around the world for that purpose.  All
    services are held in this manner.  The mailing address
    for the main organization is P.O. Box 4062, Kingman, AZ
    86402.  The data phone number is (602) 753-3784.  The
    voice message phone number is (602) 753-3615.

2.  F.U.C.K. follows the supreme rules of Agnosticism
    tempered by the attention of the Goddess Eris, the God
    Coyote, and other deites of "Excrement Occurs", and the
    recognition of the fundamental Truth of Murphy's Laws.

3.  F.U.C.K. does not condone actions which are illegal or
    unethical in nature.  F.U.C.K. ethics are defined in the
    document "First Untied Church Kalisti Ethics"
    (FUCK_ETH.ZIP).

4.  F.U.C.K. Organization includes one Avatar, plus at least
    one Pope of Discordia per BBS.  Popes of Discordia have
    final say on their on BBSs, as all F.U.C.K. positions
    are voluntary, including the use of any equipment,
    including Computer and any other information media, and
    if a volunteer leaves the Church, he or she takes their
    equipment with them.  F.U.C.K. is not responsible for
    costs incurred by volunteers, nor will it receive
    payment from them for any reason whatsoever.

5.  F.U.C.K. holds education in all subjects as the Key to
    Illumination and the only True Path to Nirvanna, so it
    has begun a campaign to "Just Say Know", which is
    considered the answer to Life, the Universe, and
    Everything.  We believe that the human species will rise
    to a higher plane of existance when bigotry and
    ignorance are extinct and freedom of the soul is
    complete with no constraints.
