                  First Untied Church Kalisti
                         Organization
                         - Copyright 1992 by Grinning Coyote

The AVATAR
    There shall be one Avatar of F.U.C.K.  He or she is
    answerable only to Eris, Coyote and other deities.  The
    responsibilities of the Avatar are as follows:

    A.  Review and release all sermons.
    B.  Maintain F.U.C.K. Headquarters BBS, paying all phone
        bills for the Headquarters, and upgrading whenever
        possible and/or necessary.
    C.  Keep copies of all F.U.C.K. materials in the
        Download and File Request areas online and backed up
        at all times.
    D.  Make all Church Policy.
    E.  Able to Appoint any position except Popes of Eris
        and Kalisti, except on his or her own BBS.

1.  POPES of DISCORDIA
        There shall be either one or two Pope of Discordia
        per BBS which is part of F.U.C.K.  He and/or she is
        answerable only to the Avatar regarding Church
        matters, but have full and complete power over his
        and/or her own BBS.  The responsibilities of the
        Popes of Discordia are as follows:

        A.  Able to submit Sermons.
        B.  Maintain the BBS which they are in charge of.
        C.  Offer F.U.C.K. materials whenever possible.
        D.  Make all BBS policy.
        E.  Able to appoint any position below them.

2.  POPES of ERIS
        Popes of Eris are appointed as needed in order to
        help individual Popes of Discordia in the workings
        of their BBSs.  Responsibilities of Popes of Eris
        are as follows:

        A.  Able to submit Sermons
        B.  Help the sponsoring Pope of Discordia in any way
            requested.
        C.  Be knowledgible of F.U.C.K. materials.
        D.  Able to appoint Popes of Nox and below.

3.  POPES of KALISTI
        Popes of Kalisti are appointed under special
        circumstances by Popes of Discordia.  They have no
        responsibilities that they may submit Sermons.
        Other benefits are the sole responsibility of the
        sponsoring Pope of Discordia on the individual BBS
        involved.

4.  POPES of NOX
        Popes of Nox are appointed at any time by Popes of
        Eris and above as a reward for Illumination.  They
        are allowed to submit Sermons, but have no other
        responsibilities or benefits whatsoever.

5.  PRACTITIONERS and PETITIONERS
        Practitioners and Petitioners are considered members
        who hold no office.  The practitioner is the normal
        member of F.U.C.K.  Petitioners are those
        Practitioners who have submitted a Sermon but have
        not yet had it accepted by the Avatar.  Once the
        Sermon has been accepted, the Petitioner will be
        notified of his or her new status as a Pope of Nox.
