                                MYSTIC LIGHT:

                    Symbolism Is Our Source of Knowledge


    A previous consideration of the symbolism of numbers had the premise 
that as knowledge increased, we also advance our ability to observe 
accurately and analyze. Therefore, as we proceed along this path, we shall 
eventually come face to face with some very important Rosicrucian principles 
Ä that we must carefully examine ideas regarding their true merit before 
passing judgment. 

    There is a definite purpose for such instruction, the development of 
reason, which will aid in the unfolding of spiritual sight. Furthermore, as 
we achieve, there follows the realization that we have, in fact, proven to 
ourselves how the 1 to 10 cycle, which has been under consideration, does 
actually contain information, that life is everlasting and that we are 
spirits with bodies that are but temporary dwelling places and instruments 
for use. 

    It is widely recognized that words are but symbols of ideas, while 
numbers can be shown to be symbols of divine realities, having the key to 
the evolution of both man and the Cosmos, by symbolizing and illustrating 
the cosmic principles back of all manifestation. Therefore, when approached 
from this concept, symbolic messages may be communicated by numbers. This, 
then, becomes ample reason to study and carefully evaluate this line of 
thought. Gaskell's Dictionary of Scriptures and Myths contains this 
statement: 

    Numbers become symbols because the internal universe is on a definite 
and co-ordinated plan in which quantitative relations are repeated 
correspondentially through different states and planes. Number is common to 
all the planes and thus unites them. 

    The following statements are from Rosicrucian Teachings: 

    If our minds are occupied with such subjects as mathematics. . . we are 
in the Region of purely Abstract Thought, beyond the influence of Feeling, 
and the mind is directed upward towards the spiritual realms and liberation. 
(Cosmo-Conception, p. 202). 

    The Father speaks to us in the language of symbolism, which both hides 
and reveals the spiritual truths. . . . Each occult truth requires 
examination from many points of view; each viewpoint presents a certain 
phase of the truth. . . . Any object in the three dimensional world may, or 
rather must, be viewed from all points to obtain a full and complete 
comprehension thereof, so all symbols have a number of aspects. Each 
viewpoint reveals a different phase from the others, and all have an equal 
claim to consideration. 

    These statements reveal that the time has come when we must not base our 
judgments on who said it, but that the most worthwhile conclusions are to be 
the result of our own investigations into the facts or opinions being 
presented. Therefore, efforts directed to our most reliable source of 
information, the study and interpretation of symbols, become our most 
desireable path. Of the many symbols to be considered, quotations found in 
the Rays Magazine, printed with approval of Max Heindel, maintain that it is 
Numbers that become the only absolute science. "Numbers, then, are symbols 
of eternal principles, and figures are symbols of numbers."1 This, along 
with Blavatsky's view that "Numbers. . . are the key to the ancient views on 
Cosmogony (creation and origination of the world, or Universe) in its broad 
sense, including man and beings, and the evolution of the human race, 
spiritually as well as physically" gives us an interesting base from which 
to continue our study of Numbers. Please understand that the objective of 
these articles is to encourage the reader to carefully investigate points 
being made. How can we ever expect to make accurate judgments without 
investigating the subject from many points of view? To that end, in order to 
have a base to investigate information symbolically concealed within the 
numbers from 1 to 10, let us briefly consider a few points previously made. 
The first consideration was that of the dot and circle, with the dot showing 
the first activity, and the circle the extent of the influence. Within the 
circle, movement is shown by the line, which reveals the movement of the dot 
influence. This movement becomes the symbolic number 1. 

    At this point, Diagram 1 comes under consideration, where number 1 is 
shown in the upper half of the larger circle. It was previously suggested 
that the top circle symbolized the spiritual and the lower the physical. 
Therefore, the first activity of the Creator was in the spiritual world 
(Remember: "In the beginning was the Word"). Within the top circle are two 
smaller that show higher or lower (positive or negative) even in the 
spiritual world. The next action being in contrast to the vertical line, 
number 1, is shown by the horizontal line. As a result of this division we 
have number 2 becoming the number of separation, or the number of polarity. 
"The unity of the number 1 is broken up into its positive and negative 
aspects, with the upper representing Spirit and the lower matter."2 Another 
concept is that "number 2 is a symbol of the duality of manifestation, the 
One becoming Two, Spirit and matter. Also of the relative, the opposites, 
higher and lower, good and evil, etc."3 With respect to the opposites, 
Gaskell further states that "These are the positive and negative aspects of 
qualities, without which manifestation on the lower planes could not occur. 
The negative aspects imply the absence of the positive, and therefore the 
illusive."4 Also is noted that once this differentiation takes place, we 
have a new point to consider: "As above, so below." Therefore, with the 
division shown in the upper circle, the separation into the positive (upper) 
and negative (lower) becomes the basis for number 2. With this influence 
extending into the lower circle (physical) we have the makings of number 3. 

    We are now concerned with the fourfold nature of man: body, mind, spirit 
and soul. Spirit and soul from the spiritual plane has now come down into 
the physical and unites with body and mind, which becomes the square, or 
sometimes referred to as "four-square." At this state of development man 
attained the necessary tools for return to the Spiritual World. Numbers 
reveal this when we add 1+2+3+4=10, the number of completion. Revealed is 
that number 4, of the physical plane, now becomes the first number to carry 
this potential. 

    As pointed out in Article 2, number 5 is the mid-point in the 1 to 10 
cycle. 

                           (1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10)

    In this example, number 5, the number of man, is the only number that 
cannot combine with another to become number 10. Therefore, this is the 
reason in Genesis that Eve came into being. At this point 5+5=10. This you 
will find illustrated in Diagram 1. When Eve, an opposite, is combined with 
Adam, we have illustrated the circle completed on the physical plane. 

    With this potential it becomes very interesting to note that number 6 
reveals Divine influence coming down into the physical circle made possible 
when Adam and Eve became one. Revealed is that the Divine influence will 
provide the stimulus that makes it possible to return to the Spirit World. 
Note, that when we add the numbers 1 to 6: 

                       (1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 = 21= 3)

    The Trinity is at this point revealed, making it possible for man to see 
and respond to this higher influence. 

    Beyond doubt, number 7 reveals the Divine influence within the lower 
physical circle and extending only partially into the upper spiritual. Note 
that as with number 2, there is still the horozontal, or contrast, as 
emphasis is to the physical. Spiritual problems will come later. 

    Now that man has begun to identify some of the problems related to the 
physical, it is interesting to note number 8 as the number of evolution. 
Demonstrated is activity around the physical circle and then up and around 
the spiritual. When, finally, man awakens to his higher potential, number 9 
reveals the solution, for here we have the bottom physical circle of the 
number 8 straightening out into the number 9, revealing a direct path, 
upward, into the Spiritual World. 

    As implied, number 9 reveals a different path, as the physical circle of 
the 8 has now changed into a straight line leading directly into the upper 
spiritual circle. In this way is revealed the path of Initiation, with 
number 8 showing the path of Evolution. All this carries implication of 
definite change taking place as the path of Initiation is traveled and 
becomes an inner experience that makes contact with the Spirit World a 
possibility. As stated in the Cosmo-Conception, page 96, "Activity of the 
spirit in the dense body, which results in right action, promotes the growth 
of the Conscious Soul." 

    The intended purpose of this article is to point out some very 
interesting correlations that tie the Rosicrucian Teachings, the Bible and 
Numbers together once we have begun to understand the symbolic information 
that is to be found in Numbers and symbolic writing. For example: "And the 
Lord God formed man (5) of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his 
nostrils the breath of life and man became a living soul." (Gen. 2:7). This 
takes place in the world of spirit. The "fall" came after Adam's helper, 
Eve, was created. While Adam and Eve dwelt in the Garden, it was a time when 
humanity was spiritual and "living" in the Spirit World. Mankind now goes 
from a state of spiritual consciousness into the physical world with dense 
physical bodies. 

    When Cain (that part of the human consciousness which strives to acquire 
and possess) killed Abel (high mental realm), it meant that the lower 
materialistic mind was taking over, or another way of stating it is that man 
was becoming materialistic. Since most of the stories in the Bible are 
written to portray qualities within each of us, the implication is that 
there are changes that must be eventually made. Now do you see that most of 
humanity, at this time, is involved with the problems indicated by numbers 5 
and 6? 

    By the way, have you ever given consideration to the symbols that 
identify the Earth, Jupiter and Venus Periods, found in Diagram 8 in the 
Cosmo-Conception, p. 197? Here, the Earth Period is identified by a 5 with 
the circle. Is not the "5" another way to reveal number 10? Then, in the 
Jupiter Period we have the symbol of soul above matter. The Venus Period 
that follows is identified with the cross of matter below the circle, which 
implies that by that time the soul, or temple within, will have gained 
control over the lower physical. Is not there a similarity of essential 
points? 

    There is to be found, in the Old Testament book of Ezra, an account of 
how religious reform may be managed. The first verse refers to the goal 
that: 

1. The word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah (religious thoughts in true 
observance of divine law. Also, an exalted state of consciousness connecting 
us with Divine Mind, exaltation of Jehovah) might be fulfilled, the LORD 
stirred up the spirit of Cyrus (the will ruling in sense consciousness) King 
of Persia (that which lies between the outer and the true inner spiritual 
consciousness), that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and 
put it also in writing, saying, 

2. Thus sayeth Cyrus King of Persia, The LORD God of heaven hath given me 
all the kingdoms of the earth; and he hath charged me to build him an house 
at Jerusalem (abiding consciousness of spiritual peace), which is in Judah 
(spiritual facultyÄincrease in the mental; prayer and praise). 

    The key verse (5) states: Everyone whose heart God had moved, prepared 
to go up and build the house of the Lord in Jerusalem (abiding consciousness 
of spiritual peace). Chapter 2 begins with the statements: 

    Now these are the children of the prince that went up out of the 
captivity, of those which had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar (human 
will backing itself up by the human intellect; this brings about human 
judgment which gives full attention to material subjects and feels all-
powerful) the king of Babylon (outer, sense, and confused thoughts of the 
material consciousness) had carried away into Babylon, and came again unto 
Jerusalem (spiritual peace) and Judah (increase of the spiritual mental 
faculty), every one unto his city (higher soul activity); 

    Following this is a long list of the children's names and when checked 
out every name will relate to some type of progress, or advancement. Next, 
in chapter 3, the altar is set up, but in chapter 4, the work is hindered, 
the work is suspended, then work begins again, "and the foundation of the 
house of the Lord was laid." (3:11) Again, there is opposition to the 
rebuilding. Isn't all this what we might interpret from number 5, which 
implies living in physical surroundings. But then comes the influence into 
the physical from number 6. 

    Ezra now comes to Jerusalem and the key verse here is that he "had 
devoted himself to the study and observance of the Law of the Lord, and to 
teaching its decrees and laws in Israel (spiritual consciousness)." (Ezra 
7:10). 

    All this leads up to religious reform (Ezra 10:11), the influence of 
number 6. Now it becomes time for Nehemiah to "rebuild the wall of 
Jerusalem, and we will no longer be in disgrace." (Nehemiah 2:l7). This wall 
is representative of our own individual consciousness and mind protecting 
spiritual substance, which previous error thoughts cannot penetrate. Numbers 
7 (Divine influence in the physical), and number 8, will take a period of 
time, or evolution. But the cycle is broken and the wall is completed as we 
go up number 9, into the spiritual world. With number 10, the Divine 1 
stands with the 0 of number 10 (the wall has been completed). After this 
completion process, number 11 reveals the new achiever working with the 
Divine. Number 12 becomes the completion number 

                                (1 + 2 = 3),

the number of the Trinity. Finally, 13 reveals activity in the World of Spirit.

    The Cosmo-Conception, page 151, has a comment that will help in our 
interpretation of the above account: 

    Evolution is "the history of the progression of the Spirit in Time." 
Everywhere, as we see about us the varied phenomena in the universe, we 
realize that the path of evolution is a spiral. Each loop of the spiral is a 
cycle. Each cycle merges into the next, as the loops of the spiral are 
continuous, each cycle being the improved product of those preceding it and 
the creator of those more developed states which succeed it. 

    Regarding Nehemiah and his efforts to rebuild the wall: 

    The prophet Nehemiah (Neh. 4:1-20) is the faithful, persistent one 
within us that believes in this divine possibility for man: the rebuilding 
of the walls of Jerusalem, which is a symbolical description of the 
reconstruction of the soul consciousness so that it will keep out negative 
and error thoughts and conditionsÄthis of course results in a renewed and 
spiritualized body.5  

                                                                     --E.W. 

1. Rays from the Rose Cross, February 1918, p. 134. 

2. Key to The Universe, Curtiss, p. 82. 

3. Dictionary of Scriptures & Myths, Gaskell, p. 773. 

4. op. cit., Gaskell, p. 551. 

5. Metaphysical Bible Dictionary, Unity, p. 476. 

