                                 ASTROLOGY:

                   Emerson--America's Great New Age Mystic

    Surely the spring of 1803 was a most benefic time for America. In April 
the Louisiana Territory, called the biggest real estate bargain of all time, 
was acquired, greatly enlarging its boundaries. And in May there was born in 
New England one destined to become a New Age pioneer. 

    Even the pulpit of one of the most forward-looking churches was not 
sufficiently progressive for him. He resigned, and travelled to Europe to 
meet some of its avant garde thinkers like Wordsworth, Carlyle, Coleridge. 
On returning, he founded (in 1836) with Margaret Fuller, Henry Thoreau, and 
others, the movement that came to be known as Transcendentalism, no doubt 
the nation's most influential New Age initiative of the time. 

    At first glance, his chart does not appear at all unique. It seems to be 
just another Splash pattern with the planets scattered in seven signs. He 
himself is credited with the saying that concentration is genius' essence, 
yet his own planetary energies seem widely dispersed. (Of course he also 
said that a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.) For his 
activity was broadly focused: he travelled, wrote, and lectured widely, yet 
he was a genius nevertheless. 

    Our big clue to understanding his chart is in the 3rd house. Neptune is 
closely conjunct the Part of Fortune; this symbolic point's closest aspect 
often points to where the emphasis is. The configuration's meaning: "A sense 
of participation in vast social or spiritual movements."1 

    It is well to remember that in charts where Neptune is prominent, much 
is submerged, subtly concealed. After all, Neptune is "monarch" of the 
maritime; we must look deeply. In doing so, we find Neptune and Pluto in 
mutual reception. Uranus' solstice point is also with them: all the three 
New Age planets are together in the 6th house of work. 

    Too, they are linked by (minor) aspects. Uranus and Neptune form a semi-
square; Neptune and Pluto a biseptile (103 degrees, small orb allowed) of 
destiny. The extra-Saturnian orbs are very strongly interconnected, even 
though in a somewhat concealed, typically Neptunian manner. They have 
congregated in Neptune's sign that, greatly increasing its importance. Even 
though Gemini is the Sun sign and chart signature, Pisces is the real basis 
of Emerson's achievements. 

    We have his own words for this: "The greatest genius is he who offers 
fewest obstacles to the illumination from above."2 Pisces is the sign most 
capable of self-abnegation, giving itself away. Only an empty vessel can be 
filled. How regrettable that the sign of the fishes is at times referred to 
with such disparaging remarks as "dustbin of the zodiac" when potentially it 
is most capable of responding to divine dynamics. 

    This goes along with the 8th cusp of regeneration, bringing out the 
best, whose degree symbol is "An empty hammock."3 Nature Ä incidentally, 
this is the brief title of the book that helped launch Transcendentalism Ä 
abhors a vacuum. It will eventually be filled by something, in the spiritual 
realm either by demons or divinity.4 Surely Emerson emptied his own 
"hammock," or vessel, for an inflow from above, and with the strength of his 
New Age planets as noted above, his bent was to respond to their positive 
vibrations. 

    All the more because we also glimpse two Finger of God configurations. 
Even one in a chart is quite rare; what comment would be adequate when there 
are two? Especially when their components are so exquisitely harmonious? In 
one, Venus, Jupiter, and Neptune are all in some way tied to Pisces: Venus 
is exalted therein, the other two orbs dignified. In the other, Mars, 
Uranus, and Pluto are all related to Scorpio: Uranus is exalted, the other 
two dignified. The more harmonious the components of a configuration, the 
greater its potential. The apexes of the two figures of destiny are in the 
6th and 8th houses; esoteric work was his appointed assignment. 

    And esoteric astrology further helps explain his success. In addition to 
the regular mutual reception already noted, he has an esoteric one. Venus is 
Gemini's esoteric ruler; Mercury that of Aries; they're in each others' 
signs.5 Hence, special emphasis and relationship. Gemini is the logo of 
communicating where Emerson excelled. Aries is not only the symbol of 
forcefulness (here Venus removes abrasiveness), also of simplicity. It was 
said of a preacher, Six days a week he's invisible, the seventh he's 
incomprehensible. By contrast, Emerson was highly visible and just as 
comprehensible, a fact supported by these important degree meanings: 

    The Ascendant: "Vibrant simplicity." 

    The M.C.: "Warmth of simple living." 

    The 12th cusp: "Death of useless things."6 

    Mercury: "A man trimming palms."7 In the sense of getting rid of the 
unnecessary, this surely is a step in the direction of simplicity. 
"Trimming" also implies making something short, brief. Emerson could not be 
accused of being long-winded. When lecturing, he would put his watch on the 
lectern and always stop at the time promised. 

    There was a self-authenticating naturalness about Emerson's message. 
Though rightly called New Age, it was part of the Ageless Wisdom. This is 
clearly indicated by the chart. Straddling the Ascendant are Saturn, 
Jupiter, Uranus. The first represents the old, the last the new; since 
Jupiter is almost exactly in their middle it ties them all together even 
though no actual aspect exists.9 

    Emerson once said, "Astrology is astronomy brought to earth and applied 
to the affairs of men."9 It can similarly be said that the New Age Message 
is the Ageless Wisdom adapted and applied to this age. 

                                                            --A Probationer 

1. The Lunation Cycle, Dane Rudhyar, p. 116. 
2. Emerson, Lillian A. Maulsby, p. 14. 
3. The Sabian Symbols, Marc Edmund Jones, p. 166. 
4. Matthew 12:43-45. 
5. Astrology, The Divine Science, Moore and Douglas, pp. 697, 699. 
6. Astrology of Personality, Dane Rudhyar, pp. 360, 351, 357.
7. Marc Edmund Jones, op. cit., p. 234.
8. Astrology, Ronald C. Davison, p. 111.
9. A to Z Horoscope Maker and Delineator, Llewellyn George, p. 255.
