                                 ASTROLOGY:

                       America's Prophet of Astrology

    Incredible as it may seem, astrology was persecuted earlier this century 
in the Western World. England's Alan Leo had to pay œ30 in fines and court 
costs in 1917 (ca. $1,500 today). But an American contemporary fared much 
better. 

    It all started in 1899, when with Saturn and Uranus transiting her M.C., 
Jersey City born and Boston resident Evangeline Adams decided it was a good 
time to move to New York City. She read the chart of the owner of the hotel 
she planned to stay in on March 16 and predicted imminent disaster. On St. 
Patrick's Day Warren Leonardi's Windsor Hotel burned to the ground. He 
admitted she had predicted it; the press headlined it; Ms. Adams was on her 
way to fame. 

    That was too much for the skeptics, and she was summoned to court on 
basis of an old state law equating astrologers with those "who pretend to 
tell fortunes."2 

    She refused to have the case thrown out of court. Judge Freschi gave her 
the data for a chart to interpret; she accurately read the personality of 
his honor's son, and the judge cheerfully admitted that "the defendant 
raises astrology to the dignity of an exact science."3 Astrology now became 
legal in New York, then the nation's "trend setter." The defendant rejoiced: 
"I have Mars conjunct my natal Sun in the 12th house. I will always triumph 
over my enemies."4 

    She now began to make a host of famous friends. Her Carnegie Hall studio 
in the heart of the city was visited by English royalty and the likes of 
Enrico Caruso, Mary Pickford and J. P. Morgan. In 1930 she started a thrice 
weekly radio program; mail poured in at the rate of 4,000 pieces a day. She 
surprised her public by turning down a travel tour for the fall of '32. Did 
she really know that she would then depart this plane? 

    Her chart contains two patterns, indicator of an advanced ego, as also 
the fact that two of her New Age planets are angular.5 It is a Seesaw, two 
groups of planets separated by sextiles. She could view things from all 
sides. This is underscored by this also being a Full Moon map, bringing 
added awareness. All the more since the two lights are drawn even closer 
together by belonging to a ring (mutual reception of more than two planets) 
with Uranus, "patron planet" of the celestial science. 

    Straddling the Ascendant is a cluster of seven planets compressed within 
94 degrees. This is the natus of a talented person uniquely drawn to the 
public. The Sun may be in the "weak" 12th house, but one way or another it 
is connected with all the other planets.6 

    This is also a bucket Ä one planet at least a sextile from all others. 
It is Saturn, on the 9th cusp of the higher mind, dominating the entire 
chart, also co-ruler of the Sun sign and in a critical degree.7 

    Ms. Adams was a highly disciplined lady. We must never lose sight of the 
fact that one's capacity for discipline reflects one's progress on the 
Path.8 Students of astrology must be truly disciplined, from within, for 
there is no control over them from without. Anciently, they were 
"regulated"; Daniel was a "master of. . . astrologers."9 But today, the 
astrological community prefers to regulate itself, but as newsman Paul 
Harvey repeatedly reminds his listeners regarding mundane matters: self-
government without self-discipline won't work. 

    There are diverse kinds of discipline. Our Lord in the Sermon on the 
Mount spoke of a discipline consisting of activity whose "rewards were 
wholly in secret. He spoke of prayer and giving,10 but the principle also 
applies to those who would use the wisdom of the stars to serve mankind. To 
do the utmost good, astrologers must continue to labor at perfecting their 
skill even if inclined to think they could "get by" with less, that "nobody" 
would know the difference. Not on earth, perhaps. 

    But rivalling Saturn's strength in her chart is Neptune Ä ruler, final 
dispositor, in a critical degree, cardinal sign and angular house. It is 
also lord of the most occupied sign, Pisces, with three planets and the 
Ascendant, and natural ruler of the most heavily tenanted house, the 12th. 
Its sign is also that of the sign signature, indicating compassion, 
sympathy, and understanding. It is noteworthy that at her funeral the 
preacher did not dwell on her skill or fame; he "commented on Miss Adams' 
'love and understanding' of her fellow man."11 

    Dale Carnegie, in his classic "How to Win Friends and Influence People," 
claimed that sympathy and understanding is "what everybody wants."12 Of 
course it is no substitute for skill in reading the stars, but a necessary 
adjunct. The identical facts can be presented as encouragement or the very 
opposite. An author once admitted he felt better after a certain publisher 
rejected his manuscript with profuse apology than after another accepted the 
same grudgingly! 

    Ms. Adams not only knew the planets and their screeds, she also 
understood people and their needs. In comparing her chart with that of her 
country we find that the two closest planetary links are her Neptune and 
Jupiter in Neptune's sign to the U.S. Sun; too, her Part of Fortune is in 
the same sign and degree as the U.S. Neptune. Her sympathy as well as skill 
made her what she was.	p 

1. America's "Dean of astrologers" called her a "prophet" because "astrology 
to her was not so much a profession as a cause." The Guide to Horoscope 
Interpretation, Marc Edmund Jones, p. 84. 
2. My World of Astrology, Sydney Omarr, p. 73.
3. Sydney Omarr, op. cit., p. 75.
4. Astrology, Louis MacNeice, p. 196.
5. Astrology: A Cosmic Science, Isabel M. Hickey, p. 130.
6.In midpoint configuration with Mercury and Jupiter; nonagen (40 degrees) 
to Venus; conjunct Mars; in ring formation with Moon and Uranus; sextile 
Neptune; disposited by Saturn; square Pluto. 
7. Saturn's closest aspect is a challenging square to Mercury, which is 
widely conjunct Jupiter of expansion and growth, both in the sign of 
intuition, in the house of ferreting out secrets. Truly she was queen of her 
art. 
8. The Astrology of Human Relationships, Sakoian and Asher, p. 40.
9. Daniel 5:11.
10  Matthew 6:l-6.
11. Louis MacNeice, op. cit., p. 198.
12. How to Win Friends and Influence People, Dale Carnegie, pp. 189-195, 
paperback edition. 
