WHAT TO DO IN CASE YOU MISS THE RAPTURE
   
        Matthew 24:36 "But of that day and hour knoweth no 
man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only.

        37 "But as the days of Noe were, so shall also the 
coming of the Son of man be.

        38 "For as in the days that were before the flood they 
were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, 
until the day that Noe entered into the ark,

        39 "And knew not until the flood came, and took them 
all away; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.

        40 "Then shall two be in the field; the one shall be 
taken, and the other left.

        41 "Two women shall be grinding at the mill; the one 
shall be taken, and the other left.

        42 "Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your 
Lord doth come.

        43 "But know this, that if the goodman of the house 
had known in what watch the thief would come, he would have 
watched, and would not have suffered his house to be broken 
up.
        44 "Therefore be ye also ready: for in such an hour as 
ye think not the Son of man cometh."
   
        Some day soon, the Lord Jesus Christ is going to 
return and take all the born again Christians to heaven.  
These instructions are written to the people who are left 
behind, to tell them what to do after they have missed the 
Rapture.  We are warning you about this now, because we won't 
be around then.  All of these instructions are found in the 
Holy Bible, which is the first thing you're going to need to 
find out what is going on.
   
1.  DON'T GET EXCITED.
   
        If you never worried about the Rapture before it 
happened, then it is absolutely useless to worry about it 
after it's already over.  If you had wanted to get right with 
God before the Rapture, you could have, but you chose to wait.  
Now your only chance is to stay on the earth and to endure to 
the end of the Tribulation.  Matthew 24:13 says, "But he that 
shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved."  It is 
useless for you to bang your head on the wall and scream and 
holler.
   
        The Christians are gone--they are all gone.  If you 
had a little baby, the little baby is gone.  Sin is not 
imputed when there is no law (Romans 5:13).  Sin is not 
charged while the child is still innocent, so you don't have 
to worry about the baby.  The baby is with Jesus.
   
2.  START WORKING YOUR WAY TO HEAVEN.
   
        If the Lord comes and you remain behind, then start 
working like a madman to get to heaven, because you're going 
to have to.  You have entered a period of time called "The 
Great Tribulation," and the plan of salvation in the 
Tribulation is faith in Jesus Christ plus your own good works.
   
        Revelation 12:11 "And they overcame him by the blood 
of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they 
loved not their lives unto the death."
   
        Revelation 6:9 "...I saw under the altar the souls of 
them that were slain for the word of God, and for the 
testimony which they held...."
   
        Revelation 14:12 "Here is the patience of the saints: 
here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith 
of Jesus."
   
        Revelation 22:14 "Blessed are they that do his 
commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, 
and may enter in through the gates into the city."
   
        Revelation 7:14 "...These are they which came out of 
great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and made them 
white in the blood of the Lamb."
   
        You must keep the Ten Commandments (all of them, 
Ecclesiastes 12:13), keep the Golden Rule (I John 3:10), give 
your money to the poor, get baptized, take up your cross, hold 
out to the end of the Tribulation, wait for Jesus Christ to 
show up at the Battle of Armageddon, and be prepared to die 
for what you believe.  In the Tribulation you cannot be saved 
by grace alone, like you could before the Rapture.
   
        Before the Rapture, you could have been saved by grace 
through faith plus nothing (Ephesians 2:8-9), but one minute 
after the Rapture took place you must get out the Ten 
Commandments and the Golden Rule and start learning them, 
because you're going to be judged by them (Matthew 25:31-46).  
The way to get to heaven in the Tribulation is to earn it:  do 
right by God, and do right by your fellow man, as well.
   
        Isaiah 1:16 "Wash you, make you clean; put away the 
evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil
        17 "Learn to do well; seek judgment, relieve the 
oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow."
   
3.  DON'T TAKE ANY MARK OR ANY NUMBER.
   
        The Bible says whosoever takes the mark of the beast 
goes to Hell.
   
        Revelation 14:9 "And the third angel followed them, 
saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and his 
image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or in his hand,
        10 "The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of 
God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his 
indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone 
in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the 
Lamb:
        11 "And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for 
EVER AND EVER: and they have no rest day nor night, who 
worship the best and his image, and whosoever receiveth the 
mark of his name."
   
        When somebody comes around and wants to put any number 
on your body or give you a number, especially the number 6-6-
6, DO NOT take it.  People have heard so much about the "mark 
of the beast" that they think it's a joke that will never 
happen.  Well, a few decades ago in Germany, every Jew was 
required to wear a six pointed star.  It would be just as easy 
for the government to require every citizen to take a number 
and a mark.
   
        In the book of Revelation a man shows up on this earth 
called the Antichrist.  His number is 666.  He comes from 
Rome.  He has connections with Moscow, but he comes from Rome 
(Revelation 17:18).  This fellow will take over the entire 
world and become the main political and religious leader.  
When he does, he will pass legislation and establish a global 
economic system, designed so that you can't buy, sell, or eat 
unless you take his mark or the number of his name.  Now, it 
isn't that you won't have enough money.  You will be in a 
store, buying your groceries, and when you get in line they 
will say, "Put your hand in the machine."  You put your hand 
in the machine, and if that mark shows up in your hand, you 
can take the groceries, and if it doesn't, you can't buy 
anything no matter how much money you have.
   
        Revelation 13:16 "And he causeth all, both small and 
great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark IN 
THEIR RIGHT HAND, OR IN THEIR FOREHEADS:
        17 "And that no man might buy or sell, save he that 
had THE MARK, OR THE NAME OF THE BEAST, OR THE NUMBER OF HIS 
NAME.
        18 "Here is wisdom.  Let him that hath understanding 
count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man; 
and his number is SIX HUNDRED THREESCORE AND SIX."
   
        It must be a terrible thing to be a mother and hear 
your little baby cry for milk and be unable to get any milk.  
It would be a terrible thing to have your baby crying, "Momma, 
I'm hungry," and the fellow at the store saying, "Lady, all 
you got to do is get this mark."
   
        They will tell you to conform.  They will point out 
that even the world leaders have the mark.  Presidents, kings, 
queens, prime ministers, governors, mayors, city councilmen, 
neighbors, friends, and even relatives have the mark.  It's 
only the Bible that says it's wrong.
   
        The baby is sick and you want medicine:  "Do you have 
the mark?"  You pull into a gas station:  "You got the mark?"  
It doesn't matter whether or not they have the gas, it matters 
if you have the mark.
   
        Don't take a mark, and don't take a number.  You will 
go to Hell if you do.  The Bible says so; if you don't believe 
this article, then check it out; read the Bible for yourself.
   
4.  GET FANATICAL.
   
        Be a religious fanatic.  Die as a martyr.  Be 
fanatical after Christ comes, because when Christ catches the 
Christians off this earth and takes them up, you are going to 
be up against the devil, with his people trying to control you 
or kill you.
   
        Revelation 12:11 "And they overcame him by the blood 
of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they 
loved not their lives unto the death."
        Revelation 14:12 "Here is the patience of the saints: 
here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith 
of Jesus.
        13 "And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, 
Write, Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from 
henceforth: Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from 
their labours; and their works do follow them."
   
        If somebody calls you in and says, "Raise your hand 
and swear by God that the Antichrist is King of kings and Lord 
of lords," then keep your hand down, and say, "Jesus Christ is 
the Lord."  Stand up against your friends, and against your 
boss, and against the way your parents raised you.  It is too 
late to give up a few hours on Sunday for the Lord.  In the 
Tribulation you may have to lose your job for the Bible, lose 
your money for religious convictions, and lose your life for 
the Lord Jesus Christ.
   
        Most people were indifferent to God, indifferent to 
the Bible, indifferent to Christ, and indifferent to the 
Second Coming.  The only thing that upset most people was what 
affected their finances or their egos.  But now in the 
Tribulation you have to put first things first.  Nobody in the 
Tribulation gets to heaven unless he escapes the Antichrist, 
or else he faces the Antichrist and refuses to take the mark 
of the beast or the number and has his head cut off.
   
        Revelation 20:4 "...I saw the souls of them that were 
beheaded for the witness of Jesus, and for the word of God, 
and which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, 
neither had received his mark upon their foreheads, or in 
their hands; and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand 
years."
   
5.  SUPPORT THE JEWISH PEOPLE.
   
        When Jesus returns at the Second Coming, all will face 
"The Judgment of Nations":
   
        Matthew 25:31 "When the Son of man shall come in his 
glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit 
upon the throne of his glory:
        32 "And before him shall be gathered all nations: and 
he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd 
divideth his sheep from the goats:"
   
        The test for a Gentile is how he treated Jesus's 
brethren: the Jews.  Remember Hitler?  Well, the Antichrist 
will be ten times worse.  At first, he will negotiate a peace 
treaty with the nation of Israel (Isaiah 28:15), but three and 
a half years later he will break the covenant and try to 
destroy them (Daniel 9:27; Mark 13:13-25; Matthew 24:4-51).  
But whatever you do, don't assist the Holocaust, because the 
Lord will judge anyone who stops the Jews from escaping:
   
        Obadiah 14 "Neither shouldest thou have stood in the 
crossway, to cut off those of his that did escape; neither 
shouldest thou have delivered up those of his that did remain 
in the day of distress.
        15 "For the day of the LORD is near upon all the 
heathen: as thou hast done, it shall be done unto thee: thy 
reward shall return upon thine own head."
   
        Always help the Jewish people.  Go against the 
government, go against established religion, be willing even 
to sacrifice yourself and your family to save the lives of 
Jews, because they are God's people, and He gave them His 
blessing.  He said to their father Abraham:
   
        Genesis 12:3 "And I will bless them that bless thee, 
and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all 
families of the earth be blessed."
   
        Later, God said to the nation of Israel:
   
        Isaiah 41:11 "Behold, all they that were incensed 
against thee shall be ashamed and confounded: they shall be as 
nothing; and they that strive with thee shall perish."
   
        So no matter how much pressure you are put under, 
never hut a Jew.  Your own soul depends upon it.
   
        What you should have done was to get saved BEFORE the 
Rapture.  However, the vast majority of people on this earth 
missed out on the Rapture.  This is because there has never 
been a time in history when the majority were right about 
spiritual things.  Jesus Christ was the one who said, "BROAD 
is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and MANY there be 
which go in thereat" (Matthew 7:13).  The same Saviour said, 
"The love of MANY shall wax cold...MANY shall be 
offended...MANY false prophets shall rise" (Matthew 24:10-12).  
The world does not care to believe these warnings, exactly as 
it rejected the warnings in Noah's day of the coming Deluge 
which was to destroy all of the civilizations of that time.  
For more than 120 years before the Flood, men were warned 
about the approaching catastrophe.  It came.  Christ said, "AS 
IT WAS IN THE DAYS OF NOE, so shall it be also in the days of 
THE SON OF MAN" (Luke 17:26).
   
        If you were in the company of a saved person when the 
Rapture took place, you have no doubt about the catastrophe, 
for you found yourself standing next to a heap of clothing 
soaked in blood (I Corinthians 15:50).  The terrible and 
tragic truth is apparent that the believers have gone and you 
are left behind.  The prophetic word says that you are now in 
"the time of Jacob's {Israel's} trouble" (Jeremiah 30:7), 
which Christ called "great tribulation" (Matthew 24:21).  This 
period of time will be approximately SEVEN years long and has 
been referred to by Biblical scholars as "Daniel's Seventieth 
Week" (Daniel 9).  If the Rapture has preceded your reading of 
this article, then you are NOW in this period.  This period 
will be unparalleled in trouble and horror.  Jesus Christ 
said:
   
        Matthew 24:21 "For then shall be great tribulation, 
such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, 
no, nor ever shall be."
   
        Now what must you do?  You have to do all the things 
explained above, and you must do them quickly and thoroughly 
if you ever hope to obtain eternal salvation and be accepted 
by God.  If you want to know whether or not these instructions 
are absolute truth or only someone's opinion, get a Bible as 
quickly as you can and read Matthew 24 and 25, Hebrews 6 and 
10, and Revelation 13 and 19.
   
        Start now.  The salvation of your soul depends upon 
it.  Act now and determine that, come what may, you will not 
take "THE MARK OF THE BEAST."  You still have a chance to be 
saved, but this time you will have to be "FAITHFUL UNTO 
DEATH."
   
        You may have anywhere from a month to seven years 
until the Second Coming, depending upon when you read these 
lines.  But the Great Tribulation will end, and it will end 
with "THE GLORIOUS APPEARING OF THE GREAT GOD AND OUR SAVIOUR 
JESUS CHRIST" (Titus 2:13).  May God find you ready in that 
hour.
   
WARNING!!  Almost all of the past Christian literature about 
the way of salvation is now obsolete.  Beware that you are not 
deceived:
   
Matthew 24:11 "And many false prophets shall rise, and shall 
deceive many."
   
        If the Rapture has not taken place as yet, don't 
        procrastinate: tomorrow may really be too late.
   
        II Corinthians 6:2 "...behold, now is the accepted 
        time; behold, now is the day of salvation."
   
        If this sounds like foolishness to you, consider this 
        verse:
   
        I Corinthians 2:14 "But the natural {unsaved} man 
receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are 
foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they 
are spiritually discerned."



