Demonic Influence & Bondage

According to God's Word

Getting Free-->><<--Staying Free

The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me... the Lord hath anointed me to
preach... to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the
prison to them that are bound (Isa. 61:1).

Many people today live in prison. The cells may vary, the jailor's face
may be different, but the result is still the same. They are bound by a
force that they cannot control. They cannot touch the force nor can they
see it, but it is real. It may be a chemical dependence, such as alcohol,
heroin, cocaine or tobacco. It may be lust, envy, jealousy, gluttony,
hatred, fear or mental torment.

This force is not a respecter of persons, it attacks at will, sometimes
rendering its helpless. Man for centuries has tried to control it. He has
tried various cures, various treatments, and the advice of assorted experts.
A separate science has been developed because of it, but for the most part
the cure has eluded man.

This force destroys everything it touches. It robs, it maims, it tears apart
families, it kills individuals, and brings about the fall of a nation.

This force is the power of Satan.

The majority of people today are totally ignorant of Satan and the evil
spirits, demons, that are under his control. On the other hand some people
believe all human problems are the activity of demons, either extremes are
dangerous and harmful, both to the church and the world. Looking for a demon
around every corner has a tendency to bring skepticism from the world. While
wholly ignoring the reality of spiritual beings that are warring against
us - leaves some in a spiritual fog, unable to determine the exact cause
of the difficulties.

By and large, unsaved people are influenced by demon spirits. We see India,
a nation with some 300 million, with many gods to worship, It is a place
of starvation due to the fact they believe that certain animals may be
ancestors reincarnated. Children are allowed to starve in order for an
ancestor to move up the ladder of reincarnation. Such religions are started
and promoted by demon spirits.

In recent months mass murders have become common place in our society. These
people, who kill at random with no apparent motive, are demonically
controlled. For the most part these are extreme cases where Satan is allowed
to run rampant in a nation or in an individual's life. What about the average
person?

Man is a sinner by nature of the Spiritual laws that are in effect. The Bible
teaches that all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. If you are
not a friend of God, you are His enemy. You are either for Him or against
Him. If you are against Him you could be under the influence of demon
spirits.

Even though the Spirit of God may also be dealing with you, the way man makes
decisions, to some degree, depends on two basic sources. The first is himself,
the Bible calls the old man, the flesh. Man gets himself into trouble where
he desires something that is not good for him and then decides that he is
going to obtain it or do something to achieve his desires. The second Is
this outside force, the spirits, usually evil spirits under Satan's control.

The old man is dealt with by giving one's heart and life to the Lord Jesus
Christ in a total commitment to Him. The evil spirits must be taken authority
over in the name of Jesus and cast off or out. The popular phrase "the devil
made me do it", or "l just couldn't help myself", is usually said in jest.
Not knowing it may be the very reason. The old man is not cast out, but he
is crucified with Christ (Rom 6:11). Demon spirits will not give up control
of someone unless forced to do so. Knowing where the root of the problem
lies is the most important point in helping an individual that is in bondage.

If a person has given his heart to the Lord and is still struggling with
areas in their life then deliverance from the demon influence is needed.
This is not a case where an individual is constantly tempted within a
certain area, but where the individual doesn't find or doesn't know how to
use the power to resist the temptation and is falling constantly, due to
the tremendous pressure from the outside forces.

There are a number of areas where Satan will attack. In the last few years
there seems to be certain places where his concentration is the greatest. One
main area - is lust. Since the sexual revolution took place the pressure to
fit in to a sexually liberated society is overwhelming. If you are not
participating then you are "old fashioned" or "weird". We are constantly
bombarded with advertisements with sexual tones. Any day or night of the week
you can turn on your television set and see acts of premarital sex, adultery,
and perversion. The quick stop shops are plastered with material that would
make the most wicked blush. With these things taking place it is no wonder
men and women alike are having trouble controlling their thought lives in
this area. The person wrestles in themselves, with their own strength,
trying to gain control, only to find themselves wearied and giving in to
the thoughts and committing the act, either mental or physical, they know
is wrong.

Emotional stress and mental torment are areas where Satan is gaining the
upper hand in the lives of Christians. "The peace that passes all
understanding" is just not there. They are crying out for help and many
simply don't know what to do.

A third area is that of occult activity. This includes ouija boards,
horoscopes, witchcraft, fortune-tellers, contacts with mediums and dealing in
E.S.P. We have seen a rash of occurrences where houses have become "haunted"
(inhabited by demon spirits). Interest in the supernatural has increased,
while the church has pushed the supernatural out, people have gone seeking it
in other places. God has set specific warnings about witchcraft in His word.
The Jews were not to even suffer a witch to live, yet today, people openly
boast their "Witch" status on national TV and radio. Today Christians readily
pick up the morning newspaper for a look at their horoscope, while ignoring
the Bible for their spiritual breakfast.

Satan is out to control your mind, your life and to ruin your testimony for
God. Many pastors are experiencing difficulty in counseling with members of
the opposite sex without becoming emotionally and physically involved with
them. We do not war against flesh and blood but spiritual wickedness in high
places, our battle is not with society, nor with the conditions we grew up in,
nor is it dependent on the circumstances we find ourselves in now. Our battle
is with the prince of darkness, the god of this world system, Satan.

He cannot be fought with material weapons or the mind. A man said one time
that the hope for his state was in it's educational system. All education will
do is make people smart sinners. Education deals with mind only, The spirit
and the heart must be set free. It can only be set free by the power of an
Almighty God, The God of the Universe who created you and me, who sent His Son
to die for you and me on an old rugged cross. He shed His blood for our sin
and our deliverance from the bondage of Satan. Jesus Christ is the only one
strong enough to defeat Satan and set you free from the mental prison you are
now in. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God
to the pulling down of strongholds; casting down imaginations, and every high
thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing every
thought to the obedience of Christ... (2 Cor. 10:4-5).

Some of you are crying out now, saying this is me! I have struggled for so
long and fought so hard but I just can't get rid of this thing in my life. It
may be depression, discouragement, lust, alcohol, or drugs, whatever it is,
you don't have to live in bondage, oppression or extreme pressure by any
demon. You have authority over it, you can have the victory. The battle has
already been won, Jesus Christ paid the price almost two thousand years ago.
He paid the price so that you don't have to live life depressed, bound,
discouraged, or broken hearted. He came that we might have life and have it
more abundantly. Jesus gave you the power and authority, and said that He
would fight your battles if you would just use the authority He gave you.
Arise up out of that pit that you are in, shake the dust from yourself and
walk in the Victory that He paid for with His precious blood!

Complete, total deliverance is available. It is yours for the taking. Most
importantly you must surrender your total life to God, right now. Give Him
every area of your life. Follow this guideline.

1. Ask Jesus to forgive you of your sin and to come into your heart afresh and
new.

2. Renounce the sin that has been holding you back. Tell God you don't want it
anymore and ask Him to give you a deep hatred of it.

3. Command the demons to go in the name of Jesus (Luke 10:17),

If the control is severe, it is important to have believers that are full of
God's Spirit present to help pray.

HOW TO STAY DELIVERED

Staying delivered is the majority of the battle. Satan cannot force you to do
anything. He cannot separate you from God's love or power (Rom 8:34-39). He
will try to get control of your thought life. Philippians 4:8 tells us what to
think on "...whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest,
whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are
lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if
there be any praise, think on these things."

Father, I pray for those reading this tract desiring deliverance from the
bondage the enemy of their soul has put them in. I rebuke every foul spirit
and every demon that has tried to control their lives. Show them any hidden
sin, wash them as white as snow, change them, and set them Free. May their
lives never be the same again. May they walk in joy unspeakable and full of
glory. Give them the peace they need, and the knowledge of how to use the power
of your Spirit they need to walk a life of victory in Jesus. We thank
You and praise You for it, in Jesus' name, Amen.

"Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved
us (Rom 8:37)."

WHOSOEVER SHALL CALL ON THE NAME OF THE LORD SHALL BE DELIVERED.. JOEL 2:32

---------------

Reprint permission was granted to Computers for Christ #22 for the expressed 
purpose of posting this tract in electronic form. Please DO NOT modify this 
file nor distribute hard copies of this file. 

Printed copies for distribution are available from the Gospel Tract Society 
for a donation. 

The Gospel Tract Society is supported by our contributions. Please help them 
continue their work by sending them a contribution today.

 The Gospel Tract Society, Inc.
 P.O. Box 1118
 Independence, MO 64061

