1

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 1
                    MONROE TECHNIQUES FOR ASTRAL PROJECTION


              Note: After having studied many methods of Astral
         Projection, I have found that this is the easies to do.
         Monroe teaches these techniques in a week, but they can be
         easily done in a day, with proper devotion. I feel that this
         technique is superior to others because it doe not require
         intense visualization, which many people cannot do.
         enjoy!


         (Taken from Leaving The Body: A Complete Guide to Astral
         Projection, D. Scott Rogo, prentice Hall Press)

         One of the chief barriers people learning to project face is
         fear.  Many are afraid that they may die, or be harmed in some
         way as a result of their projection.  Nothing could be farther
         from the truth.  The Cantebury Institute, reknowned for its
         occult studies, executed an experiment in projection involving
         over 2,000 people.  None of them were hurt in any way by this,
         and now, three years later, none have complained of any newly
         arising problems.

         Once you are aware that you cannot be harmed by projecting,
         you should begin monroe's techniques, step by step.

         Step one:
             Relax the body. According to Monroe, "the ability to relax
         is the first prerequisite, perhaps even the first step itself"
         to having an OBE. (out of body experience) This includes bothe
         physical and mental relaxation. Monroe does not suggest a
         method of attaining this relaxation, although Progressive
         Muscle relaxation, coupled with deep breathing exercises
         (inhale 1, exhale 2, inhale 3.... until 50 or 100) are known
         to work well.
         
         Step two:
             Enter the state bordering sleep.  This is known as the
         hypnagogic state. Once again, Monroe doesn't  recommend any
         method of doing this.  One way is to hold your forearm
         up, while keeping your upper arm on the bed, or ground. As you
         start to fall asleep, your arm will fall, and you will awaken
         again.  With practice, you can learn to control the Hypnagogic
         state without using your arm.  Another method is to
         concentrate on an object.  When other images start to enter
         your thoughts, you have entered the Hypnagogic state.
         Passively watch these images.  This will also help you
         maintain this state of near-sleep. Monroe calls this Condition
         A.

         Step three:
             Deepen this state. Begin to clear your mind.  observe your
         field of vision through your closed eyes.  Do nothing more
         for a while. Simply look through your closed eyelids at the
         blackness in front of you.  After a while, you may notice
         light patterns.  These are simply neural discharges.  They
         have no specific effect.  Ignore them.  When they cease, one
         has entered what Monroe calls Condition B.  From here, one
         must enter an even deeper state of relaxation which Monroe
         calls Condition C-- a state of such relaxation that you lose
         all awareness of the body and sensory stimulation.  You are
         almost in a void in which your only source of stimulation will
         be your own thoughts.
             The ideal state for leaving your body is Condition D.
         This is Condition C when it is voluntarily induced from a
         rested and refreshed condition and is not the effect of normal
         fatigue.  To achieve Condition D, Monroe suggests that you
         practice entering it in the morning or after a short nap.

         Step Four:
             Enter a state of Vibration. This is the most important
         part of the technique, and also the most vague.  
             Many projectors have noted these vibrations at the onset
         of projection.  They can be experienced as a mild tingling, or
         as is electricity is being shot through the body.  /their
         cause is a mystery.  It may actually be the astral body trying
         to leave the physical one.
         For entering into the vibrational state, he offers the
         following directions:

         1. Remove all jewelry or other items that might be touching
         your skin.
         2. Darken the room so that no light can be seen through your
         eyelids, but do not shut out all light.
         3. Lie down with your body along a north-south axis, with your
         head pointed toward magnetic north.
         4. Loosen all clothing, but keep covered so that you are
         slightly warmer than might normally be comfortable.
         5. Be sure you are in a location where, and at a time  when,
         there will be absolutely no noise to disturb you.
         6. Enter a state of relaxation
         7. Give yourself the mental suggestion that you will remember
         all that occurs during the upcoming session that will be
         beneficial to your weel-being. Repeat this five times.
         8. Proceed to breath through your helf-open mouth.
         9. As you breath, concentrate on the void in front of you.
        10. Select a point a foot away from your forehead, then change
         your point of mental reference to six feet.
        11. Turn the point 90 degrees upward by drawing an imaginary
         line parallel to your body axis up and above your head.  Focus
         there and reach out for the vibrations  at that point and
         bring them back into your body.

              Even if you don't know what these vibrations are, you
         will know when you have achieved contact with them.

         Step five:
             Learn to control the vibrational state.  Practice
         controling them by mentally pushing them into your head, down
         to your toes, making them surge throughout your entire body,
         and producing vibrational waves from head to foot.  To produce
         this wave effect, concentrate of the vibrations and mentally
         push a wave out of your head and guide it down your body.
         Practice this until you can induce these waves on command.
             Once you have control of the vibrational state, you are
         ready to leave the body.

         Step six:
             Begin with a partial seperation.  The key here is thought
         control.  Keep your mind firmly focused on the idea of leaving
         the body. Do not let it wander. Stray thought might cause you
         to lose control of the state.
             Now, having entered the vibrational state, begin exploring
         the OBE by releasing a hand or a foot of the "second body".
         Monroe suggests that you extend a limb until it comes in
         contact with a familiar object, such as a wall near your bed.
         Then push it through the object. Return the limb by placing it
         back into coincidence with the physical one, decrease the
         vibrational rate, and then terminate the experiment.  Lie
         quietly until you have fully returned to normal. This exercise
         will prepare you for full seperation.
            
         Step seven:
             Dissociate yourself from the body. Monroe suggests two
         methods for this.  One method is to lift out of the body.  To
         do this, think about getting lighter and lighter after
         entering this vibrational state.  Think about how nice it
         would be to float upward.  Keep this thought in mind at all
         costs and let no extraneous thoughts interrupt it. An OBE will
         occur naturally at this point.
            Another method is the "Rotation method" or "roll-out"
         technique.  When you have achieved the vibrational state, try
         to roll over as if you were turning over in bed.  /do not
         attempt to roll over physically.  Try to twist your body from
         the top and virtually roll over into your second body right
         out of your physical self.  At this point, you will be out of
         the body but next to it.  Think of floating upward, and you
         should find yourself floating above the body.
             Monroe suggets you begin with the lift-out method, but
         argues that both are equally efficacious.

         If, after all this, you still can't project, I recommend
         purchasing Leaving The Body, by R. Scott Rogo.  It only costs
         $7.95 and contains another eight or so techniques.  Not all
         techniques work for everyone, but chances are you'll find one
         that works for you in this book.
          Good luck!
          Thich Van.


Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 2
                      Astral Projection #1
                  ]-========================-[

       Astral Projection or more simply, seperating your Spirit and
     letting it travel without your body is one of the most entertain-
     ing OcculT skills you can learn.
       Yes, your spirit can be sent forth, out of the body, with full
     awareness and return with full memory. You can travel thru time
     and space, converse with other non physical entities( spirits,
     ghosts, shades), obtain knowledge by non-material means, and 
     experience higher dimensions. Adventuring into the realms of the
     proven real Astral Plane as well as our own Earth Plane.
       These text files will explain 2 ways to seperate the Spirit 
     from the body and enter the Astral Realm. Many people have had 
     these so-called out of body experiences, contained within this
     text is ways to control it and benefit from it.
       The first way that will be discussed in the text "ASTRAL 
     PROJECTION: THE WICCAN WAY", is the way the majority of the
     Witches Astral Project (the word WICCAN meaning:of WitchCrafT).
     This is probably the best if already a Witch but can be used
     quite effectively by all. This method is by far one of the best.
       The second method of training the spririt to seperate from the
     body involves using a body of light, that is the charging of the
     chankras or power centers of the body.....the easiest to develop.
     This way is recommended to beginners and novices of the ArT.

       BE SURE TO READ **ALL** TEXT ON ASTRAL TRAVEL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!




Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 3
                 Astral Travel : The Wiccan MethoD
              z____________________________________z

    Desribed here is how to seperate the Spirit from the body the
   Wiccan way (i.e. the way of the WitcheS).

    Find a quiet area where you will be free from ANY interruptions.
  (This is very important). Lie down on a bed, couch, or whatever is
  comfortable. (The light level should be fairly low, almost dark).
  Place your arms at your sides, palms upwards (NEVER cross the legs,
  always keep them straight). Now make a mental picture of where you
  would like to project (note this must be a REAL place!). Make this 
  mental picture as vivid as possible, think as hard as possible about
  this place. Do this for about 1 minute, then concentrate on the center
  of your forehead, imagine it buzzing, do this for 1 minute then go
  back to concentrating on the place you want to visit. Switch between
  Concentrating on the Destination and the Forehead Center each for
  1 minute about 5 times.

  Now relax, let everything slow down. Start with the feet and feel
  them realx so all the tension flows out. Once they have been relaxed
  move up to the legs, and so on all the way up the body relaxing
  all parts. When you have relaxed every part of your body think about
  your breathing. SLOW it down, slower and slower. When you have got it
  as slow and deep as you can comfortably manage return to concentrate
  on the center of your forehead buzzing.

     Your experience from here will take one of two paths:

  Path 1:  The lift out phenomenon. If your type of Astral Travel is 
         like that of most people, as you are lying on the bed you will
         gradually begin to lift out of your body. Just like a mist
         rising from a swimming pool. The spirit will rise up from the
         body. In this case the spirit should gently move away from the
         body and drift up into the corner of the room. With this sep-
         eration begin again to think of your Destination. You spirit
         should immidiatley take off. If this does not happen move the
         spirit further away from the body (thru the wall, outside the
         house), then try again. This requirment for physical seperation
         is well known. It seems as though the aka thread which connects
         the spirit and the body has elastic-like properties. When it is
         short it is very strong, but as you stretch it, it becomes
         weaker. Once you have put in about 30 feet of seperation it
         seems you can go anywhere.

 Path 2: The instant-transition phenomenon. One moment you are lying
         comfortably, and the next instant you are somewhere else. To
         many people this instant transition is so startling that it
         jolts them back into their body.

            Rejoining the Spirit and the Body:

  Eventually, no matter how much fun your having, you must return. DO NOT
  attempt to think yourself back into your body, instead, come to the
  door of the room, approach the body slowly, and drift gently back into
  it. When you get close to the body you will suddenly snap back in.
  Take a few moments to take some deep breaths and to relax...........


            Here endeth---



Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 4
              Astral Projection using the Body of Light
          Z__z__________________/\____________________z__Z

   Preperation for this technique requires only that you find a quiet
 place to lie down where your body will not be disturbed. Lie comfort-
 ably on your back with your eyes closed and begin to conciously to
 direct your breathing process. Use the lower back muscles for deep
 diaphragmatic breathing as slowly as you find comfortable. Now send
 forth to a convenient distance above you a jet of silver grey mist.
 It should form at a distance into a small cloud, and you should define
 it until it takes on your own size and general shape. You should
 fashion it in the same posture as yourself but facing you.(That is,
 it will be floating in the air above you in a horizontal position, look
 ing down at you).
   Keep clearly in visualization this projection figure and its connect-
 ing cord. Then make a single CLEAR resolution(mentally, not aloud) to
 transfer yourself to that astral vehicle. Directly you have made this
 resolution, imagine yourself, concentrated as it were in your single
 point of conciousness, gliding swiftly upwards toward the figure and
 entering it at a the point corresponding to your own Centre of Concious-
 ness.
   Now make a deliberate effort to "turn around" in the figure, so as
 to see from its viewpoint(See the room from somewhere near the ceiling-
 and see your physical body lying below). Now you can Project to any
 sight you wish.
   To return to the body presents no difficulty. Your Astral Presence
 should lie about 8 feet directly above your physical body, then you
 should sink slowly back into your physical body.





Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 5
                   IMPORTANT notes on Astral Travel
              I________________________________________I

               Heaven 'N' Hell or Nexroth
     will NOT be responsible for what may happen as you Astrally
     project...this is the chance you take, however there is practically
     nothing to worry about if the guidelines are followed.


 -- When the Spirit seperates from the body you will look down and
    actually see your body lying there as if you had died (this may
    cause you to snap back into the body...after a few times you will
    learn to deal with this and it will diminish).

 -- On the Astral you will see the Spirits of Dead People (Discarnate
    Spirits), other Astral Travellers (Incarnate Spirits, which means
    they have a body to return to), Entities, Shades, Strange Creatures,
    (Some tend to be very frightening to the Appearance).

 -- NOTHING can hurt you on the Astral ( this means you can do anything
    you like....you can actually pass thru objects. A car can pass thru
    you and it will harm nothing).

 -- The ONLY thing you can actually feel physical contact with is another
    Spirit. 

 -- On the Astral colors and sounds are very VIVID

 -- All dreams you may have when you are flying are actually Astral
    Projections and you can control them.

 -- a thread called an AKA THREAD connects the spirit and the body.
    (If this thread should ever become disconnected it means that you
    have passed on). When you first seperate the spirit from the body
    you will actually see this small white-like thread connecting the
    two beings).

 -- As you progress in Astral Projection you can actually visit what
    are called the Spiritual Realms (this is why the reading of the
    suggested books is highly recommended).

 -- On the Astral you are able to enter another persons sleeping body
    and possess them.

 -- Care should be taken that another Spirit does not try to possess you
    while you are projecting ( VERY VERY IMPORTANT ). See the file:
    PROTECTION CIRCLE OF ASTRAL TRAVEL.

 


Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 6
          Suggested Readings on : 'Astral Travel (Projection)'
    ===---===---===---===---===---===---===---===---===---===---===

     Conatined within these readings on Astral Travel are the basics
     required to develop being able to seperate the spirit from the
     body and travel into the Astral Plane of existence! However, to
     truly get an learn an understanding of ALL aspects of the Astral
     world you are advised to read and learn from these books, which are
     ALL available from the Tyrad Catalog (no I'm not pushing Tyrad..
     and if you can find them elsewhere, so mote it be!).


 *'Astral Travel',Your Guide to the secrets of Out-of-body-Experiences
              Author(s): Gavin and Yvonne Frost

 *'The Llewellyn Practical Guide to Astral Projection'
              Author(s): Melita Denning and Osborne Phillips

 *'Your Psychic Powers and how to develop them'
              Author(s): Hereward Carrington
 
 *'The Miracle of Universal Psychic Power'
              Author(s): Al G. Manning

 *'The Handbook of Astral Projection'
              Author(s): R. Greene





Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 7
             Protection Circle for Astral Projections
         oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

  It is best to choose ONE area for all your OcculT experiments with
  Astral Projection. Find a quiet area, one where you can lay down and
  one that is free from alot of electrical disturbances ( that is, make
  sure you are not surrounded by alot of electrical wires and appliances
  which may distort projection). 

  When you have found this area, lay down and begin drawing a circle
  of white light with the tip of your finger mentally in the space of
  about 6 feet around your chosen projection area. At the four Cardinal
  Points it is necessary to make a cross or crucifix of white light.

  Start at the north by making a cross of white light and then say to
  yourself ,"Michael"..pronounced : Mick-aye-ell, then proceed drawing
  the circle until you hit the east point to draw the cross then say
  to yourself "Gabriel"..pronounced: Gahb-ree-ell, proceed drawing the
  white light until the southern point is reached where you will draw
  the cross and say "Raphael"..pronounced: Raf-eye-ell, proceed with the
  line of light until the westen point is met, draw the cross and say
  "Emmanuel", then proceed in closing the circle. When this is done,
  visually see the white circle of light with the 4 Cardinal Crosses
  glowing with a bright white light above you. Then say to yourself:
  "Protect me".

  This experiment has only to be done once, but may be used at any time
  to assure protection. This protection circle retains the Physic powers
  that you build while projecting and thus retains them, making it easier
  to project on each succession.

                        



Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 8
                                C A B A L A

This ia a simple discourse on some of the major facets of the Cabala.
It is also spelled as Kabbalah and Qabalah.


                                O R I G I N S

Kabbalah: From the Hebrew word QBL meaning 'an oral tradition', the
esoteric and mystical division of Judaism. The Kabbalah presents a
symbolic explanation of the origin of the universe, the relationship
of human beings to the Godhead, and an emanationist approach to
creation whereby the Infinite Light (AIN SOPH AUR) manifests
through different SEPHIROTH on the TREE OF LIFE. Although the central
book of the Kabbalah, the ZOHAR, was not written down until around
1280 -- probably by MOSES de LEON -- the Kabbalah has spiritual links
with GNOSTICISM and other early mystical cosmologies.
  
In the Kabbalah, all manifestations are said to have their origin
in the AIN SOPH AUR and the successive emanations of the Godhead reveal
aspects of his divine nature. The system is thus monotheistic in
essence, but allows for the tenfold structure of the sephiroth
upon the tree of life. The emanations as they proceed down from the 
Godhead to the manifested world, are:
KETHER (The Crown);CHOKMAH(Wisdom); BINAH(Understanding);CHESED(Mercy)
GEBURAH(Power);TIPHARETH(Beauty & Harmony);NETZACH(Victory);
HOD(Splendor);YESOD(Foundation);MALKUTH(The Kingdom)

Occultists in the HERMETIC ORDER OF THE GOLDEN DAWN use the Kabbalistic 
Tree of Life as a matrix or Grid for comparing the Archetypal images of
different mythologies that could be adapted to Ceremonial Magic.
For example, the merciful father (Chesed) has parallels in other
pantheons, namely ODIN (Scandinavia); ZEUS(Greece);JUPITER(Rome);
and RA(Egypt). This system of comparison became known as
MYTHOLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCES. It has become common in the occult
tradition to link the ten sephiroth of the Tree of Life with the
22 cards of the MAJOR ARCANA of the TAROT.

                     D E F I N I T I O N S

QBL: Hebrew word meaning 'from mouth to ear', thereby signifying a
     secret oral tradition. It is the meaning of Kabbalah.

Ain Soph Aur: Hebrew expression meaning 'the limitless light'.

Sephiroth: The ten speres or emanations on the Kabbalistic Tree of Life,
           a symbol which depicts the divine energy of creation
           proceeding like a lighting flash through ten different stages,
           culminating in physical manifestation. The sephiroth represent
           levels of spiritual reality both in the cosmos and in people
           because the Tree, metaphorically, is the 'Body of God', and
           people are created in his image. The Tree is sometimes shown
           superimposed on the body of ADAM KADMON --the archetypal man.

Tree of Life:The Tree consists of Ten spheres, or sephiroth, through
             which according to mystical tradition--the creation of the
             world came about. The sephiroth are aligned in three
             columns headed by the SUPERNALS (KETHER, CHOKMAH, BINAH)
             and together symbolize the process by which the infinite
             light (Ain Soph Aur) becomes manifest in the universe.
             Beneath the Supernals are the 'Seven days of Creation':
             CHESED,GEBURAH,TIPHARETH,NETZACH,HOD,YESOD,MALKUTH.
             Taken as a whole, the tree of life is also a symbol of the
             archetypal man -- ADAM KADMON, and the sephiroth have a 
             role resembling that of the CHAKRAS in YOGA. The mystical
             path of self knowledge entails the rediscovery of all the
             levels of ones being, ranging from Malkuth (physical reality)
             to the infinite source. With this in mind, the medieval
             Kabbalists divided the Tree of Life into three sections of the
             soul: NEPHESCH (the animal soul) corresponding to the 
             sephiroth YESOD: RUACH (the middle soul), corresponding to the
             sephiroth from HOD to CHESED: and NESCHAMAH ( the spiritual
             soul) corresponding to the Supernals --especially BINAH.
             Practitioners of WESTERN MAGIC, who use the Tree of Life
             as a glyph for the unconscious mind, sometimes distinguish
             the MAGICAL PATH (which embraces all ten sephiroth) from
             the MYSTICAL PATH of the MIDDLE PILLAR, which is an ascent  
             from MALKUTH through YESOD and TIPHARETH to KETHER on the
             central pillar of the Tree.

Zohar: 'The Book of Splendor'--the principal book of the Kabbalah. It is
        thought to have been written by Moses de Leon and was first
        circulated around 1280-1290, in Guadalajara. It included
        commentaries on the TORAH.

Gnosticism: Gnosis is a Greek term for 'knowledge'. The term applies to
(Gnosis)    certain religous sects that emerged during the early formative
            years of early Christianity, and which belived in 
            'Hidden Spiritual Knowledge'. The main factor that
            differentiated them from Chritianity was their emphasis on
            knowledge rather than faith.
            The Christian churche fathers considered the Gnostics
            Heretical, or Heretics.

Kether:The first Emanation on the Tree of Life. Occultists indentify
       Kether as the state of consciousness where creaton merges with
       the veils of nonexistance. Kether lies on the MIDDLE PILLAR and
       trancends the duality of CHOKMAH (male) and BINAH (female), which
       lie immediately below on the Tree. It is therefore symbolized
       in mystical tradition by the heavenly ANDROGYNE (male and female
       united in one), and represents a state of mystical Transcendence
       and union with the Supreme. It is compared to SATORI and NIRVANA.

Chokmah:The second emanation on the Tree of Life, following Kether.
        Occultists identify Chokmah with the Great Father, the giver of
        the seminal spark of life which is potent only until it enters
        the womb of the Great Mother, Binah. From the union of the
        Great Father and Great Mother come forth all the images of 
        creation. Chokmah is associated with such deities as KRONOS,
        SATURN, THOTH, ATUM-RA,and PTAH, in other pantheons.

Binah: The third emanation on the Tree of Life. Occultists identify
       Binah with the Great Mother in all her forms. She is the womb
       of forthcoming, the source of all the great images and forms
       that manifest in the universe as archetypes. She is also the
       Supreme female principal in the process of Creation and, via
       the process mythological correspondences, is associated with 
       such deities as The VIRGIN MARY, RHEA, ISIS, and DEMETER.


Chesed: The fourth emanation on the Tree of Life. Occultists 
        identify Chesed as the ruler (but not Creator) of the manifested
        universe; and he is characterised as stable, wise, and
        merciful by contrast with his more dynamic opposite, GEBURAH.
        Chesed is asscociated with Gods ZEUS (Greek), and JUPITER(Roman).


Geburah:The fifth emanation on the Tree of Life. Geburah is often
        associated with MARS, the Roman God of War, and represents
        severity and Justice. The destructive forces of the sphere of
        Geburah are intended to have a purging, cleansing effect on the
        universe. Geburah represents the Creator God, who applies
        discipline and presicion in governing the cosmos and removes
        unwanted or unnecessary elements after their usefullness has
        passed. Geburah is reflected in THE CHARIOTEER in the TAROT.

Tiphareth:The sixth emanation on the Tree of Life.It is the sphere of
          beauty, harmonizing the forces of mercy(Chesed) and Judgement
          (Geburah), higher on the Tree. Occultists identify Tiphareth
          as the sphere of spiritual REBIRTH, and ascribe to it the
          Solar Deities such as RA,APOLLO, and MITHRA as well as OSIRIS
          and JESUS CHRIST. The TAROT card TEMPERANCE identifies the
          direct mystical ascent to Tipareth from Malkuth(the physical).

Netzach:The seventh emanation on the Tree of Life. Netzach is regarded as
        the sphere of creativity, subjectivity, and the emotions -- a very
        clear contrast to the sphere of HOD, which represents intellect 
        and rational thought. Netzach is the sphere of Love, and spiritual
        passion and is therefore associated with such deities as
        APHRODITE, VENUS, HATHOR, and others that personify these qualities.


Hod:The eighth emanation on the Tree of Life. Hod is associated with the
    planet Mercury and represents intellect and rational thought. It also
    represents the structuring and measuring capacities of the mind as
    opposed to the emotion and intuitional aspects of Netzach. Hod has
    no exact parallel in the TAROT, but is closely linked to the card
    JUDGEMENT, ascribed to the path between Hod and Malkuth.

Yesod:The ninth emanation on the Tree of Life. Yesod is associated with 
      the Moon and the element Water. Regarded as a Female sphere, it is
      the seat of sexual instinct and corresponds to the Genitals Chakra
      on the archetypal man, ADAM KADMON. On the Tree of Life Yesod has
      the function of channelling the energies of the higher down to the
      earth below(Malkuth). Occultists associate Yesod with the 
      ASTRAL PLANE, because if the sephiroth above Malkuth are regarded
      as a map of the unconscious psyche, Yesod is the most accesible
      area of the mind. Because Yesod is the sphere of Fertility and
      Lunar imagery, it is identified with Witchcraft and Goddess Worship.
      It also the so called 'animal soul' know by kabbalists as
      Nephesch.

Malkuth:The tenth emanation of the Tree of Life. Malkuth is associated 
        with the Goddesses of the Earth especially PERSEPHONE(Greece),
        PROSERPINA(Rome), and GEB(Egypt). Malkuth is the domain of the
        manifested universe, the immediate enviroment, the plane of
        physical reality. As a consequence, all 'inner journeys of
        consciousness' begin symbolically in Malkuth; it is particularly
        appropriate, for example, that the myth of the rape of PERSEPHONE
        confirms her both as queen of the UNDERWORLD and as a Lunar
        Goddess. From an occult point of view, the Underworld equates
        with the Lower unconscious mind, and the Moon, represented by the
        sphere of Yesod, is the first Sephirah reached on the inner
        mystic journey up the Tree of Life. Malkuth is closely linked
        with the TAROT card THE WORLD.




Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 9
     [THIS FEATURE IS PART OF AN EXPERIMENT BEING SPONSORED BY OMNI TO HELP
SCIENTISTS REFINE CERTAIN DREAM TECHNIQUES NOW BEING STUDIED IN THE LAB.  THE
FULL EXPERIMENT APPEARS IN THE APRIL OMNI MAGAZINE.  THE EXERCISES PRESENTED
HERE ARE FOR THOSE WHO MIGHT WANT TO ATTEMPT A LITTLE LUCID DREAMING ON THEIR
OWN.]

Most people don't realize they've been dreaming until after they've awakened and
the dream has come to an end.  Some people, however, are conscious that they're
dreaming.  These people -- called LUCID dreamers --
 can literally direct the
content of a dream, scientists have discovered, deciding perhaps to talk physics
with Einstein, woo and marry a movie star, or assume the powers of Superman.
For those who have acquired the knack of lucidity, the benefits can be enormous:
 Lucid dreaming gives one the chance to experience unique and compelling
adventures rarely surpassed elsewhere in life.  These experiences can enhance
self-confidence and promote personal growth and self-
development.  By facing
fears and learning to make the best of the worst situation imaginable, lucid
dreamers can overcome nightmares.  Because recent scientific studies have
demonstrated a strong connection between dreams and the biological functioning
of the body, lucid dreams might facilitate physical as well as mental health.
And finally, because lucid dreaming allows us to tap the power of the
unconscious, it may also be useful for creative problem solving.

After nearly a decade of piloting these daring nocturnal flights, 2
psychologists --
 Stephen LaBerge of Stanford University and author of LUCID
DREAMING [Ballantine], and Jayne Gackenbach of the University of Northern Iowa
--
 have begun to develop a series of techniques aimed at helping ordinary
dreamers "turn" lucid and lucid dreamers gain greater control over the woolly
behemoth of night.  These special techniques, still under development, have
never before been presented in a public forum.  To direct your own nightly
dream-
time show, please attempt exercises one, two, three and four as outlined
below.  LaBerge and Gackenback suggest that you do the tasks as often as
possible over a 2-
week period. Some people may succeed in having a lucid dream
the first night they use the techniques; others, the researchers note, may need
to practice for several weeks before getting results.

EXERCISE ONE

  A number of techniques facilitate lucid dreaming.  One of the simplest is asking
yourself many times during the day whether you are dreaming.  Each time you ask
the question, you should look for evidence proving you are not dreaming.  The
most reliable test:  Read something, look away for a moment, and then read it
again.  If it reads the same way twice, it is unlikely that you are dreaming.
After you have proved to yourself that you are not presently dreaming, visualize
yourself doing whatever it is you'd like.  Also, tell yourself that you want to
recognize a nighttime dream the next time it occurs.  The mechanism at work here
is simple; it's much the same as picking up milk at the grocery store after
reminding yourself to do so an hour before.

At night people usually realize they are dreaming when they experience unusual
or bizarre occurrences.  For instance, if you find yourself flying without
visible means of support, you should realize that this happens only in dreams
and that you must therefore be dreaming.  If you awaken from a dream in the
middle of the night, it is very helpful to return to the dream immediately, in
your imagination.  Now envision yourself recognizing the dream as such.  Tell
yourself, "The next time I am dreaming, I want to remember to recognize that I
am dreaming."  If your intention is strong and clear enough, you may find
yourself in a lucid dream when you return to sleep.


EXERCISE TWO:  DREAM FLYING

Many lucid dreamers report dreams in which they fly unaided, much like Superman.
 Some lucid dreamers say that flying is a thrilling means of travel; others,
that it has helped them rev 
endless fall.  Flying is so important because it's a form of dream
control that's fairly easy to master.  It gives the dreamer an exhilarating
sense of freedom.  And it's a basic means of travel in the dream world.  During
the 2-
week period of your experiment, try to focus on dream flight.  If you're
falling, turn that fall into flight:  Remember, there's no gravity in dreams.
And if you're simply going from here to there, do it with flight.  This simple
activity will cue you in to the fact that you are, after all, in a dream.

How do you make dream flight happen at all?  We suggest that before you retire
for bed, you simply repeat these words: "Tonight I fly!"  Then, while still
awake, imagine that journey. If you find yourself flying, it will be a clear
sign that you are in a dream.  In any case, when you realize you're dreaming,
remember that you want to fly.  When you actually feel yourself flying, say,
"This is a dream."  Make sure you start modestly, by simply floating above the
surface of your dream ground.  As you gain confidence both in the notion that
you are dreaming and in your ability to control that experience, you might
experiment with flying a bit more.  Run, taking big leaps, and then stay aloft
for a few seconds, so that you resemble an astronaut walking on the moon.  Try
sustained floating and then flying at low altitudes.

As your confidence increases, so will your flying skills. While asleep, work on
increasing your altitude, maneuverability, and speed.  As with speed sports, you
should perfect height and maneuverability before speed.  Of course, you couldn't
really hurt yourself --
 it's only a dream.  But you COULD get scared.  After you
have become proficient in dream flying, remember to ask yourself these
questions:  "How high can I fly? Can I view the earth from outer space?  Can I
travel so fast that I lose awareness of my surroundings and experience the
sensation of pure speed?"  Throughout your efforts in dream flight, remember
that you're in a dream.  With this in mind, your fear will be held at bay, and
your control over the dream will be greatly enhanced.

EXERCISE THREE:  DREAM SPINNING

Even if you're a frequent lucid dreamer, you may not be able to stop yourself
from waking up in mid-
dream.  And even if your dreams do reach a satisfying end,
you may not be able to focus them exactly as you please.  During our years of
research, however, we have found that spinning your dream body can sustain the
period of sleep and give you greater dream control.  In fact, many subjects at
Stanford University have used the spinning technique as an effective means of
staying in a lucid dream. The task outlined below will help you use spinning as
a means of staying asleep, and, more exciting, as a means of traveling to
whatever dream world you desire.

As with dream flying, the dream spinning task starts before you go to bed.
Before retiring, decide on a person, time, and place you would like to visit in
your lucid dream.  The target person and place can be either real or imaginary,
past, present or future.  Write down and memorize your target person and place,
then visualize yourself visiting your target and firmly resolve to do so in a
dream that night.  When following this procedure, it's possible that you might
find yourself visiting your target in a non-lucid dream; you will be aware that
this has happened, of course, only after you awaken.  Nevertheless, you should
strive for lucidity by following the techniques outlined in exercise one.  Then
proceed to your goal.

To do so, repeat the phrase describing your target in your dream, and spin your
whole dream body in a standing position with your arms outstretched.  You can
pirouette or spin like a top, as long as you vividly feel your body in motion.
The same spinning technique will help when, in the middle of a lucid dream, you
feel the dream imagery beginning to fade.  To avoid waking up, spin as you
repeat your target phrase again and again. With practice, you'll return to your
target person, time and place.  When spinning, try to notice whether you are
moving in a clockwise or counterclockwise direction.

EXERCISE FOUR:  CREATIVE DREAMING

Up until now we have had little control over the occurrence of creative dreams.
But with lucid dreaming it may be possible to intentionally access the
creativity of the dream state.  You can help determine the feasibility of this
idea by attempting to solve a problem in a lucid dream.  Before bed, decide on a
problem you would like to solve.  Frame your problem in the form of a question.
For example, "What is the topic of my next book?"  "How can I become less shy?"
If you have an illness, you might consider the problem, "How can I regain my
health?"

Once you have selected a problem question, write it down and memorize it.  When
doing the lucid-
dreaming introduction exercises, remember your question and see
yourself looking for the answer in your next lucid dream.  Then, when in a lucid
dream, ask the question and seek the solution.  You might be most successful at
problem solving if you try a direct approach. For instance, if your problem is
health, try to heal yourself in your dream.  Then reflect on how your dream
solution relates to the waking problem.  It may help to question other dream
characters, especially if they represent people who you think might know the
answer.  You can even combine this task with the dream spinning and flying
tasks, visiting an expert on your problem.  You can also just explore your dream
world with your question in mind, looking for any clues that might suggest an
answer.



Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 10
              ** MAGICK 9 -- ASTRAL PROJECTION **


            Astral projection (OOBE, out of the body experience)
    is a popular area of occult literature; for traveling to see
    other worlds and places while the physical body sleeps or is
    entranced is an exciting notion. Astral projection is not
    dangerous. It is as safe as sleeping. Most dreams are probably
    unconscious astral projections, anyway. Although there has
    been quite a bit written on the subject, astral projection
    is difficult for many people. The main difficulty is the
    tendency to forget dream consciousness upon awakening.
    Accordingly, the successful practice of astral projection
    requires work.
        Modern psychology discounts the idea of actual OOBE
    (that the spirit temporarily vacates the physical body).
    However, the idea is very ancient. The Tibetans have an
    entire system of yoga (dream yoga) based upon astral
    projection. And here we have an important assumption: you are
    involved in an OOBE (at least to a degree) whenever you
    dream. What sets it apart from a full OOBE is your hazy
    consciousness during the experience and poor recall
    afterwards. Many people forget most of their dreams
    completely. Learning astral projection requires a kind of
    inner mental clarity and alertness.
        Dreams are a door to the subconscious which can be
    used for psychological and spiritual insight, and sometimes
    for precognition. Dream content is influenced by external
    sounds and sensations. For example, a loud external noise
    (such as a train) will likely appear in your dream (if it
    doesn't wake you up!). Dreams are also influenced by events
    of the previous day, by your moods, and by suggestion.
    Everyone normally dreams 4 or 5 times a night (about every 2
    hours). The longest dreams occur in the morning. Everyone
    dreams. You are more likely to remember the details of your
    dream when you first wake up. By keeping a dream diary you
    will improve dream recall. Have writing equipment or a tape
    recorder at your bedside for this purpose; also a light
    which isn't too bright. Suggest to yourself several times
    before you go to sleep, "I will awaken with the knowledge of
    a dream." Then when you do awaken, move quietly (sometimes
    just turning over drives the idea away). Remember first,
    then write the dream down, and then add as many details as
   possible. The next day check for objective facts and expand
   if you can (by remembering 'what happened before that'). Once
   you start remembering your dreams in this way, it will
   become easier to do so. (If you are unsuccessful at this,
   and *really* want to remember your dreams, you could
   arrange for someone to sit by your bedside all night long
   with a dim light on. Then when he sees your eyes moving back
   and forth -- rapid eye movements, a sign you are dreaming --
   he can wake you and ask for a dream report.)


    FORMS OF ASTRAL PROJECTION

        Astral projection may be subdivided into three basic
    types: mental projection, astral projection (proper) and
    etheric projection. And your OOBE may shift between them.
    Mental projection is really simple clairvoyance ('remote
    viewing'), and 'traveling in your mind'. Imagination plays
    a key role. The experience of mental projection is not
    particularly vivid, and you will more likely be an observer
    than a participant. Nevertheless, mental projection is an
    important 'way in' to astral projection proper.
        During mental projection and astral projection you
    are able to travel through solid objects, but are not able
    to act directly upon them or to move them (if they are in
    the physical world). This is not true during etheric
    projection. Whether it is simply subconscious expectation,
    or whether it is a true etheric projection which in theory
    means that part of your physical body has been relocated
    with your projection (the etheric or vital part) may be
    difficult to determine. Etheric projections generally travel
    at or very near the physical world. There are even cases
    reported (very, very rare ones) in which the entire physical
    body is transferred to another location (teleportation), or
    cases in which the physical body exists and acts in two
    separate places at once (bilocation)! 
        But our primary interest is astral projection
    proper, and mental projection to a lesser extent. Astral and
    mental projection are not confined to the physical world.
    Travel in the mental and astral realms is feasible, and
    often preferred. Nor are astral and mental projection
    restricted to the realm of the earth (you could even go to
    the moon and planets).


     STATES OF CONSCIOUSNESS

        The electrical activity of the brain has been
    observed and classified with EEG (electroencephalograph)
    equipment; signals picked up from the scalp by electrodes,
    then filtered and amplified, drive a graph recorder. Brain
    activity has been found to produce specific ranges for
    certain basic states of consciousness, as indicated in 'hz'
    (hertz, or cycles/vibrations per second):
        delta -- 0.2 to 3.5 hz (deep sleep, trance state),
        theta -- 3.5 to 7.5 hz (day dreaming, memory),
        alpha -- 7.5 to 13  hz (tranquility, heightened
                       awareness, meditation),
        beta  -- 13 to 28 hz   (tension, 'normal'
                                   consciousness).
    As you can see, some form of physical relaxation is implied
    in the alpha, theta, and delta consciousness. These states
    are in fact reached through deep breathing, hypnosis, and
    other relaxation techniques. OOBE occurs during these
    states, and delta is probably the most important for it.
    The problem is really, as we have said, one of maintaining
    mental awareness and alertness while experienceing these
    altered states. Experimental subjects hooked to an EEG do
    not show a discrete change from drowsy to sleep; it is very
    gradual.
        At the threshold between sleep and waking
    consciousness is a drowsy condition known as the hypnogogic
    state. OOBE seems to occur during this state, or a
    variant of it. By careful control of the hypnogogic state
    (not going beyond it) it is possible to enter OOBE directly.


     BASIC TECHNIQUES

        Most methods of astral projection are methods of
     conditioning. Some form of trance or altered consciousness
     is always involved. No one ever projects consciously while
     fully awake (some may think that they do). Although there
     are many techniques used to produce an astral projection,
     they boil down to nine of them. They all sort of overlap.
        1) Diet -- Certain dietary practices may aid in OOBE,
    especially at first. These include fasting, vegitarianism,
    and in general the eating of 'light' foods as discussed in a
    a previous lesson. Carrots and raw eggs are thought to be
    especially beneficial, but all nuts are to be avoided.
    Over-eating should be avoided. And no food should be eaten
    just before an OOBE attempt. If you intend to practice
    during sleep, for example, allow 2 to 4 hours of no food or
    drink (except water) before bedtime. In general, we see here
    the same kind of dietary restrictions advocated for
    kundalini yoga. 
        2) Progressive muscular relaxation -- This is one
    of the basic methods used in hypnosis and self-hypnosis.
    Physical relaxation can assist one in attaining the
    requisite trance state. These techniques involve beginning
    at the toes and tensing, then relaxing the muscles,
    progressively up the entire body.
        3) Yoga and breath -- Yoga, mantra, and breathing
    exercises similarly aim at physical relaxation. The practice
    of kundalini yoga is particularly relevant, since it is
    concerned with altered consciousness. In fact the arousal
    of kundalini requires a similar state of consciousness to
    OOBE. 
        4) Visualization -- This involves a type of extended
    clairvoyance or picturing of remote surroundings. If you can
    experience the feeling of being there, so much the better.
    Although this technique is essentially mental projection, it
    is possible to deepen mental projection into astral
    projection through (you guessed it!) visualization. Crowley
    taught a similar technique: a) visualize a closed door on a
    blank wall, b) imagine a meditation symbol on
    the door, c) visualize the door opening and yourself
    entering through it. And J.H. Brennan describes similar
    techniques wherein the door is shaped and colored like a
    tattva, or alternately, a chosen tarot card is visualized
    and the student visualizes entering into it.
        5) Guided imagery -- In many respects similar to
    visualization. Except in this case, there is a guide (or
    perhaps a voice on tape) directing you by means of
    descriptions. As with visualization, mental rather than
    astral projection is most likely.
        6) Body of Light -- The old Golden Dawn technique.
    Imagine a duplicate (mirror image) of yourself in front of
    you. Then transfer your consciousness and sensation to the
    duplicate ('body of light').
        7) Strong willing -- Sort of like creative
    visualization experienced in the present. That is you
    express your strong desire to project through your willpower
    while you visualize yourself doing it.
        8) The Monroe techniques -- These are a series of
    steps developed by Robert Monroe: a) relax the body,
    b) enter the hypnogogic state, c) deepen the state,
    d) develope the senstation of 'vibration', e) separate from
    the body. The Monroe Institute has developed some cassete
    tapes which are claimed to help in this.
        9) Dream control -- This is one of the most
    important techniques. It involves becoming aware that you
    are dreaming. There are several ways to do this. Oliver Fox
    says to look for descrepancies in the dream to realize you
    are dreaming. One occult student I know of visualized a
    white horse which he could ride wherever he wished to go.
    After a time, when the horse appeared in his dreams it was
    his cue that he was actually dreaming/projecting. Don Juan
    tells Castaneda to look at his hands while he is dreaming.
    And even the tarot and Cabala may also be used as dream
    signals. Another method is to tell yourself each night as
    you go to sleep, "I can fly"; then when you do, you will
    know you are dreaming. Once you know you are dreaming you
    can control your dream/OOBE and go anywhere you want.
    Repetitive activities will also likely influence your
    dreams. For example, if you are on an automobile trip and
    spend most of the day driving, you will probably dream about
    driving. You can condition yourself to be aware you are
    dreaming by doing a repetitive activity many times (walking
    across the room or a particular magick ritual, for
    example). Then when you dream about it, you will know you
    are dreaming. 
        Although all these techniques may appear
    straightforward, they all require effort. Astral projection
    is generally learned.
        The astral world is the "ghostland" into which one
    passes after death. It is sometimes possible to visit with
    the dead, or you might be called upon to reassure and assist
    those who have just passed over (died) or those who are
    consciously projecting for the first time. Many spirits,
    elementals and ghosts exist in the astral world. The
    magician should feel comfortable there. Tibetan belief is
    that through proficiency in OOBE, you no longer need
    reincarnate after death. The astral world is extremely
    changeable and subject to your thoughts. Your will can
    control your movements in the astral world, and if you seem
    to be going somewhere non-volitionally ('astral current') it
    is probably your true will causing it anyway. You might also
    experience heightened magical ability while in the astral realm.



Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 11
** MAGICK 6 -- THOUGHTFORMS AND SPIRITS **


        	Although there are hundreds of kinds of divination,
the principle ones are astrology, geomancy, the tarot, the
I Ching, and direct psychic means (especially clairvoyance).
True divination is more than a mechanical system, for it
implies true psychic interpretation (receiving). Some form of
divination is often used in magick ritual to communicate with
the entity invoked.
        	Since divination operates through the mind, it is
affected and biased by the mind. Our attitudes and fears may
alter it. Sometimes results are very detailed, and accurate
-- but not always. Often the future is plastic and changeable
anyway, and the use of magick may alter the result. Thus
divination shows tendencies only, which may be helpful, but
must not rule us.


DEVELOPING CLAIRVOYANCE

        	It is possible to improve your natural ability with
clairvoyance through practice. A good start might be to look
around you, then close your eyes and try to picture your
surroundings. This is also good exercise for visualization. And
visualization is an essential talent in magick. Open your eyes
again and check your accuracy. Then close your eyes and try it
again. When you use your physical eyes, look at everything
like a child seeing it for the first time. Let the vividness
of color and form burn into you, until everything takes on a
veritable glow. Try to capture that glow when you close your
eyes now and picture your surroundings. It's just a simple
step to extend what you see with your eyes closed into what
you remember seeing in the next room, or what you *imagine*
seeing in the next building, the next city, even the other
side of the world. Don't expect perfect results, especially at
first. Just try to be even partly right. Another exercise is
to picture a clock face, and thereby tell the time
clairvoyantly.


THE AURA

        	Under the right conditions, it is possible to
clairvoyantly observe a colored light around other people.
This is known as the 'aura'.  Sometimes the aura is seen as
multi-colored emanations around the person, built up of
various differently colored layers and zones.  Although many
occult dabblers claim to be able to see the aura easily and
under many varied conditions, I seriously doubt that they do.
There are optical illusions and qualities of sight which can
sometimes trick one into thinking he sees what he does not
see. In this area, the quality of sight known as after image
is especially pertinent. Do this: stare at any solidly colored
bright object for a few moments. Very intense red, green, or
blue are especially good for this. Now look away at a white
surface and you will see a phantom image of the object in its
complementary color (a red object will show green, a blue one
orange, etc.).  	If the bright object is in front of a light
surface, you may observe a fringe of complementary color
around the object after a few moments. This is all very
normal, and is used by some magical groups as an aid to
visualization sometimes called 'flashing colors'. Some silly
people will stare at other people in the same way. And when
they see the after image of the person's clothing, they think
they are seeing his aura. What is more, various meanings have
been attributed to the colors of the aura. A psychic who can
see the aura is supposed to be able to determine that persons
emotional state. Thus psychic frauds can have a marvelous
time with auras.  One deluded psychic taught a class I
attended in which he performed instant psychoanalysis on the
basis of the supposed aura. It was obvious that he was
actually observing after images from the students clothes!
        	This brings us to the chart of aura colors on the next
page.  It is a general guide, based mostly on Theosophical
material.  Various groups may attribute different meanings to
the colors.  The colors we show on the chart are emotional in
nature; useful if you plan to create an artificial elemental
or do healing.  	Surrounding yourself with a particular color
will tend to produce the specific psychological effect
described in the chart.  That quality of color is useful in
magick ritual.

.pa (next page)



        	        	        	COLORS OF THE AURA

BLACK   	malice
        	        	        	dark gray       	depression
        	        	        	pale gray       	fear
BROWN   	materialism
        	        	        	muddy gray      	selfishness
        	        	        	  or
        	        	        	dull rust
RED     	energy
        	        	        	bright red      	anger and force
        	        	        	dirty red       	passion and sensuality
        	        	        	dull red        	selfish love
        	        	        	rose    	        	unselfish love
ORANGE  	pride
        	        	        	orange cloud    	irritability
        	        	        	bright orange   	noble indignation
YELLOW  	intellect
        	        	        	yellow-green    	low intellect
        	        	        	earthy yellow   	selfish thought
        	        	        	lemmon  	        	high intellect
        	        	        	bright gold     	logical thinking
        	        	        	brt. red-yel.   	spiritual thought
GREEN   	empathy
        	        	        	gray-green      	deceit, jealously
        	        	        	greenish-brown  	jealousy
        	        	        	emerald green   	unselfish resourcefulness
        	        	        	foliage green   	sympathy & empathy
        	        	        	brt. apple-grn  	strong vitality
        	        	        	brt. turquoise  	deep sympathy & compassion
BLUE    	devotion        	(religious feeling)
        	        	        	gray-blue       	fetishism
        	        	        	light blue      	noble spiritual devotion
        	        	        	dark blue       	religious feeling
        	        	        	brt. lilac-blu  	lofty religious idealism
VIOLET  	spiritual       	        	        	psychic & spiritual
        	        	        	        	        	  faculty
WHITE   	purity/protection

.pa


THOUGHTFORMS AND SPIRITS

        	Whenever we concentrate our thoughts, we draw psychic
energy together.  This is called a thoughtform.  Usually the
energy dissipates as soon as we break the concentration, but
it is possible to purposely concentrate energy in this way,
producing very strong thoughtforms.  Such thoughtforms are
vortexes or centers of psychic energy.  	They can exist as
entities by themselves, at least for a while.  They are
basically inanimate, non-thinking forces.  Talking to one is
about as logical as talking to a chair.  In this way,
thoughtforms are similar to elementals, ghosts, and spirits.
All of these psychic entities consist of a psychic energy
vortex which could be described as a localized field or as a
discontinuity of the physical world.
        	Psychic entities respond to certain electrostatic and
magnetic fields, and to other energy vortexes. That is why
they respond to magick ritual. Someday, we may accomplish the
same thing with electronic machines. Psychic entities are
sometimes able to affect our thought processes.
        	Thoughtforms, elementals, and ghosts are usually not
very smart.  If they display any intelligence at all, it is
limited.  They are the morons of the spirit world.  Their
behavior is usually automatic, repetitive, robot-like (just
like some people).  We see that artificial elementals
are little more than astral robots.  Spirits and deities are
more intelligent and volitional.


DIRECTED ATTENTION

        	Your mind follows your attention. Wherever you direct
your attention, there will your thoughts go too. By directing
attention to a specific place or purpose you *focus* mental
energy upon it.
        	For example: you're having lunch in a cafeteria
crowded with people. It is a large place, and everyone there
is talking at once, so that the room is a constant jumble of
noise. You happen to notice a man accross the room; he
reminds you of someone. All at once he drops his fork and you
hear it hit the table. But would you have noticed the sound
of his fork if you had not been looking? No. Only by focusing
your attention there were you able to pick out that
individual event and associated sound.
        	It is a dark night. You are walking and the only
light you have is from the flashlight you hold in your hand.
As you move the flashlight around, the beam of light from it
directs your attention first one way then another. Now, the
mind is something like that flashlight in the dark. And by
directed attention, you point the mind to one place or
another. As with that flashlight beam, you see where the mind
is pointed; nothing more. The rest is 'noise'. And so we
could define mental noise as anything not focused upon. In
another way, noise could be considered as negative emotions,
attitudes, and thoughts which make it more difficult to
direct the attention.
        	Your emotions follow your thoughts quite easily. Your
emotions are not YOU, but are rather reactions prompted by
your model and ego -- like a performance or an act, while
the real you watches. In a similar way, directing your
attention toward a specific emotion will cause you to
experience that emotion.


REVIEW QUESTIONS

1) What is the aura?
2) What is a thoughtform?
3) How can you develope clairvoyance?


BOOK LIST

Annie Bessant and Charles Leadbeater, Thought Forms.
W.E. Butler, How to Develop Clairvoyance.
J.H. Brennan, Astral Doorways.
Piero Ferrucci, What We May Be.
Kilner, The Human Aura.
Swami Panchadasi, The Human Aura.
A.E. Powell, The Etheric Double.
Harold Sherman, How  


Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 12
** MAGICK 4 -- ELEMENTS AND FORCES **

        	The Ancients divided the world into four basic
principles or *elements* -- earth, water, fire, and air.
That viewpoint has mostly changed with advances of science,
but the four elements are still accepted in magick, for they
are more closely linked with the emotions than modern
explanations of the world. Many occultists think of the magical
elements as forces, or as *qualities* of energy; especially
within the astral world. Each element has a symbol and color.
(Common symbols are -- fire: a triangle pointing up; air:
a triangle pointing up and with a horizontal line through the
middle of it; water: a triangle pointing down; earth: a
triangle pointing down and with a horizontal line through the
middle of it.) Colors of the elements are -- earth: brown and
green; water: blue; fire: red; air: yellow...The Eastern
tattvic system uses different symbols and colors. The elements
are often used in magick ritual.
        	Magick sees relationships between things. These
relationships are called 'correspondences'. Although magical
correspondences are not literally equal to one another, you can
think of them that way (such as gold equals sun). Tables of
these relationships, called 'Correspondence Tables', are
available (an important one is Crowley's '777'). Thus one thing
or symbol can be used to suggest another. This is important in
magick, for the magician may surround himself with as many
appropriate correspondences as he can to vividly affect the
senses; thus making his magical contact with the inner planes
more lucid.
        	The magical elements have correspondences with the
tarrot cards as the four suits. The four quarters (directions
of the universe as used in magick ritual) and the Archangels
also correspond with these same elements --

Element         	Suit    	        	Quarter         	Archangel
=======         	====    	        	=======         	=========

earth   	        	pentacles       	north   	        	Uriel
water   	        	cups    	        	west    	        	Gabriel
fire    	        	wands   	        	south   	        	Michael
air     	        	swords  	        	east    	        	Raphael


ELEMENTALS

        	The magical elements are said to be peopled by spirits
and mythological entities called elementals or nature spirits.
These are grouped into four main categories --

Gnome (earth)   	Undine (water)  	Salamander (fire)  Sylph (air)
=============   	==============  	=================  ===========

dwarfs  	        	nymphs  	        	jin (genies)    	   fairies
elves   	        	tritons         	        	        	   storm angels
brownies        	mermaids
hobgoblins      	mermen
lepricauns      	sirens
        	        	harpies


        	Elementals are usually only visible to those with
clairvoyant sight and are more likely to be seen at night in
the mountains or country away from cities -- especially if you
are tired or sleepy. Although elementals exist naturally, it is
also possible to create one which will exist for a limited time
-- no elemental has immortality. A created elemental is called
an 'artificial elemental'.
        	To the Ancients, elementals were the physical
explanation of the universe. However, some contemporary
occultists see them only as symbols for forces and otherwise
not 'real' at all. Another word sometimes used for elemental is
'familiar' (usually in medieval witchcraft); the term is
ambiguous, as it might merely be an ordinary household pet such
as a dog or cat.


YIN YANG

        	Chinese philosophy and acupuncture talk of yin yang.
This is the idea of polarity, or opposite pairs, as shown --


        	YIN     	        	        	YANG
        	===     	        	        	====

        	water   	        	        	fire
        	contraction     	        	expansion
        	cold    	        	        	hot
        	feminine        	        	masculine
        	moon    	        	        	sun
        	negative        	        	positive
        	passive         	        	active
        	ebb     	        	        	flow
        	wane    	        	        	wax

The list could go on. In Chinese literature it is quite long.
Some occultists suggest everything can be similarly arranged
into related opposite pairs.


SIMPLE MAGICK

        	Here is a simple magical technique you may wish to
try. It is a variation of affirmation, which was discussed
in an earlier lesson...To help to you achieve your goal
(magical or otherwise), find a word or short phase which sums
up what it is that you want to accomplish. Write the word (or
phrase) down 10 times each day until you achieve success.


REVIEW QUESTIONS

1) List the four elements.
2) What is an elemental?
3) What are correspondences?


BOOK LIST

William Britten, Art Magic (long out of print, but in some
        	libraries).
Pete Carrol, Liber Null.
Wing-Tsit Chan, A Source Book in Chinese Philosophy.
Manly Hall, Unseen Forces.


========
Phil Hansford, 11/86
THE OUTPOST RCPM
(818) 353-8891 (modem)
P.O. Box 83
Tujunga, CA 91042


Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 13
** MAGICK 3 -- THE FOUR WORLDS **

        	The ancients described man as mind, body, and soul.
Psychologists of the twentieth century added the
subconscious to that deffinition. This produces a four-fold
classification. The universe is also divided into four
corresponding parts ('worlds'), as shown below:

WORLD   	        	        	BODY    	        	        	QUALITY
=====   	        	        	====    	        	        	=======

spiritual world    spiritual body (soul or kia) intuition
mental world    	   mental body (conscious mind) rational
        	        	        	        	        	        	  thought
astral world    	   astral body (subconscious)   	emotions
physical world  	   physical body        	    physical senses

        	The astral body (subconscious) is the intermediary
for intuition, magical and psychic phenomena, and is the
'psychic link' to the physical world. Most occult and
magical phenomena originate in the invisible, non-sensate,
non-physical realm (ie. without physical senses). Each of
the four worlds interacts with the other worlds. Psychic
energy flows from the spiritual to mental to astral to
physical. The physical world is a projection (manifestation,
reflection, or shadow) of the higher worlds. Our center of
consciousness is generally within these higher worlds.
"We are", to quote the rock music group the Police, "spirits
in the material world".
        	There are many similar terms used by other occult
groups. For example, 'astral light' is another name for
astral world, although it may sometimes also refer to the
entire non-physical realm, as may 'inner planes' or 'the
invisible world'. Planes are essentially the same as worlds.
Vehicles or sheaths are the same as bodies. Some groups
include an etheric or vital body between physical and
astral: it is mostly 'physical' with a little of the
lower 'astral' besides. And sometimes astral and mental
are each divided into two parts (upper and lower). The
'causal body' is the upper 'mental'.


MICROCOSM AND MACROCOSM

        	We have been describing 'traditonal' occult
philosophy here, and certainly an important part of the
tradition is the idea (and terms) microcosm and macrocosm.
The greater universe, known as the *macrocosm*, includes
everything that exists. It corresponds with the *microcosm*,
or tiny universe, ie. man -- who is thought of as a
miniature replica of the macrocosm (whole universe).
This basic magical relationship is demonstrated in the
Bible (Genesis 1.27), where God is the macrocosm; and in
the writing of Trismegistus ("As above so below"). Since
man is in the image of God (universe) it follows that God
is in the image of man (in other words, man and the
God/universe match each other). The magician, as a microcosm
is thus connected with the macrocosm. There is an intimate
relationship of energies between you and everything else.
The universe is reflected within us and we are projected
into the universe. This is an important theory behind magick
and astrology.


MAGICK WHITE AND BLACK

        	'Personal magick' is that magick used to affect the
self; often involving affirmation, self-suggestion, and
self-hypnosis. 'Active magick' is outer directed magick (as
in PK) used to affect someone or thing, or to bring about
an event. 'Passive magick' is to be affected (as in ESP)
by an outside non-physical cause. Everyone possesses some
magical (and psychic) potential. Some are especially
gifted. Usually people are better at one kind of magick
(ie. active or passive) than they are at the other kind;
only rarely does an individual excell at both. Traning
and practice will, of course, improve ability somewhat.
        	Although the forces of magick are neutral, various
systems may take on the qualities of good and evil. There
is so-called white magick or good magick, black magick or
evil magick, and gray magick between them. When many people
refer to white magick they mean magick for unselfish
purposes, also healing and mental influence with specific
permission. By black magick they refer to magick for
self-interest and healing *without* specific permission.
Using magick to forcefully control another's will is, in a
sense, black magick too. There are also some people on the
occult fringe who claim to be, possibly even think they are,
'Satanists', devil worshipers, or black magicians. These
people are most likely charlatans, hoaxters, dablers, or
merely misinformed. They may be attracted by the 'art' of
black magick, or even by the 'glamor' of doing something
against the 'rules'. But a real black magician is very
dangerous. Because he has dedicated his life to evil. We
usually think of 'white magick' as having *unselfish
intent*, and (in the extreme case) of 'black magick' as
being actual Satan worship, human or animal sacrifice,
dangerous unconventional magical practices, and other
bizarre stuff as makes a nightmare. It is all a matter of
degree. Most mild self-interest magick (one of the most
common kinds) would be called 'gray'. Better terms may be
*constructive magick* as being beneficial; and *aversive
magick* as magick intended to work against the natural
order, and to tear down. There is also the *high magick* of
spiritual alchemy (ie. spiritual growth), also known as 'the
Great Work'; and conversely there is 'low magick' which is
concerned with materiality. 
        	Any magick act is likely to produce side effects
regardless of whether or not the desired result is achieved.
Such side effects are no problem for constructive magick,
since they are benificial as well. However, aversive magick
can produce aversive side effects which may even harm the
magician -- aversive magick is dangerous!


MAGICK IS A CONTINUOUS PROCESS

        	What we have been calling 'magick' is actually a
continuous process. Since your subconscious never rests,
your environment is continually being shifted into line with
your model. This is true whether you study magick or not.
For most people, these effects are usually very subtle, and
they are probably not aware of them. However, as you work
with the occult, the flow of psychic energy and your
awareness of it increases. Your true will is more likely
to be strongly expressed. Your luck may be affected (either
in a positive or a negative way). Remember, our lives tend
to follow what we want down deep. That is why a positive
outlook is so very beneficial to us.


THE MAGICAL DIARY

        	Sometimes it is helpful to keep a diary of your
magical experiments and research. Such a diary should include
the date, perhaps even some astrological data (or anything
else you think may have a relationship to what you are doing).
This is also a good time to begin recording your dreams --
at least the important ones -- in a dream diary. Your dreams
can tell you a great deal about yourself, and may sometimes
reveal premonitions. Dreams are personal. Don't fall for the
commercial 'dream book' gimmick.


AFFIRMATIONS

        	The mind is always open to suggestion -- especially the
subconscious. Most of the time we censor any suggestions
according to the model; but one way to break through the censor
is with repetition. An affirmation does this exactly. By
suggestion, we mean any statement which is capable of affecting
your model. Usually suggestion is in the form of a positive
statement (such as the hypnotist's patter -- " You are
becomming sleepy"). An affirmation is the same kind of thing --
a positive suggestion, which you repeat (affirm) to yourself
aloud or silently (for example, "I remember my dreams"). If
there is some quality you wish to change or develope within
yourself, an affirmation is ideal. Repeat it several times
every day at several different times throughout the day,
expecially when you go to bed. Affirmations are subtle and may
require a few months to work. Use them for changes, not
miracles.


SIMPLE BANISHING TECHNIQUE

        	Visualization is another important method we use to
influence the subconscious. A good example of this is the
simple banishing technique which follows. Banishing is used in
magick to 'clear the air' of negative 'vibes' and
interference... 

        	Visualize a strong white light flowing out the top of
your head, flowing down around you and covering you. At the
same time imagine you are throwing away any 'problem' vibes.
Maintain the visualization for a half a minute or longer.
Good way to help you handle your emotions, and to control
worry or anger.



REVIEW QUESTIONS

1) What is a microcosm?
2) List the four worlds. Explain.
3) What is an affirmation? Give an example.



BOOK LIST

Geoffry Hodson, Theosophy Answers Some Problems of Life.
Marc Edmund Jones, Key Truths of Occult Philosophy.
Marion Weinstein, Positive Magic.
Nelson & Ann White, The Wizard's Apprentice.
Beatrice Bruteau, The Psychic Grid.



========
Phil Hansford, 10/86
THE OUTPOST RCPM
(818) 353-8891 (modem)
P.O. Box 83
Tujunga, CA 91042


Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 14
  <------------------------------------------------------------------->
  <___Astral Projection__Part I_>< Brought to you by:_________________>
  <___Preliminary Exercises_____><______The Falcons Nest______________>
  <___By: The Falcon____________><_______(302)-875-7465_______________>
  <__ Uploaded By: The Loon_____><______60 Megz 12oo Baud_____________>
  <------------------------------------------------------------------->

  This information is taken directly from the book Journeys Out of 
  the Body by Robert A. Monroe.

        Throughout this writing, I have made many references to 
  one evident fact:  the only possible way for an individual to 
  appreciate the reality of this Second Body and existence within 
  it is to experience it himself.
        Obviously, if this were an easy task, it would now be 
  commonplace.  I suspect that only an innate curiosity will enable 
  people to overcome the obstacles in the path of this achievement.  
  Although there are many cases of existence experienced apart from 
  the physical body, they have for the most part - at least in the 
  Western world - been of a spontaneous, one time nature, occurring 
  during moments of stress or physical disability.
        We are speaking of something entirely different, which 
  can be objectively investigated.  The experimenter will want to 
  proceed in a manner that will produce consistent results, perhaps 
  not every time, but often enough to validate the evidence to his 
  own satisfaction.  I believe that anyone can experience existence 
  in a Second Body if the desire is great enough.  Whether or not 
  anyone should is beyond the scope of my judgment.
        Evidence has led me to believe that most, if not all, 
  human beings leave their physical bodies in varying degrees 
  during sleep.  Subsequent reading has proved that this idea is 
  thousands of years old in man's history.  If it is a valid 
  premise, then the condition itself is not unnatural.  On the 
  other hand, conscious, willful practice of separation from the 
  physical is contrary to the pattern, it would seem, in view of 
  the limited data available.
        Harmful physical effects from such activity are 
  undetermined.  I have not detected (nor have any physicians) any 
  physiological changes, good or bad, that can be attributed 
  directly to the out-of-the-body experience.
        There have been many psychological changes that I 
  recognize, and probably many more that I have not been aware of.  
  However, even my friends in the psychiatric profession have not 
  claimed that these have been detrimental.  My gradual revision of 
  basic concepts and believes is apparent in a number of ways 
  throughout this writing.  If these psychological and personality 
  changes are truly harmful, there is not much that can be done 
  about it now.
        A note of caution is in order here for those who are 
  interested in experimenting, for once opened, the doorway to this 
  experience cannot be closed.  More exactly, it is a copy of "you 
  can't live with it and you can't live without it."  The activity 
  and resultant awareness are quite incompatible with the science, 
  religion, and mores of the society in which we live.  History is 
  strewn with martyrs whose only crime was non-conformity.  If your 
  interest and research become commonly known, you run the risk of 
  being labeled a freak, phony, or worse, and of being ostracized.  
  In spite of this, something extremely vital would be missing if 
  you did not continue to explore and investigate.  In the 
  unaccountable "low" periods when you cannot produce this activity 
  no matter how carefully you try, you realize this deeply.  You 
  have a strong sense of being left out of things, of the shutting 
  out of a source of great meaning to living.
        Here, then, is the best written description I can give of 
  the technique of developing the non-physical experience.


  THE FEAR BARRIER

        There is one great obstacle to the investigation of the 
  Second Body and the environment in which it operates.  Perhaps it 
  is the only major barrier.  It seems to be present in all 
  people, without exception.  It may be hidden by layers of 
  inhibition and conditioning, but when these are stripped away, 
  the obstacle remains.  This is the barrier of blind, unreasoning 
  fear.  Given only small impetus, it turns to panic, and then to 
  terror.  If you consciously pass the fear barrier, you will have 
  passed a milestone in your investigation.
        I am reasonably sure that this barrier is passed 
  unconsciously by many of us each night.  When that part of us 
  beyond our consciousness takes over, it is not inhibited by fear, 
  although it seems to be influenced by the thought and action of 
  the conscious mind.  It seems to be accustomed to operating 
  beyond the fear barrier, and understands better the rules of 
  existence in this other world.  When the conscious mind shuts 
  down for the night, this Super Mind (soul?) takes over.
        The investigative process relative to the Second Body and 
  its environment appears to be a melding or blending of the 
  conscious with this Super Mind.  If this is accomplished, the 
  fear barrier is overcome.
        The fear barrier is many-faceted.  The most fearless of 
  us think it does not exist, until, much to our own surprise, we 
  encounter it within ourselves.  First and foremost, there is the 
  death fear.  Because separation from the physical body is much 
  like what is expected at death, early reactions to the experience 
  are automatic.  You think, "Get back in the physical, quickly!  
  You are dying!  Life is there, in the physical; get back in!"
        These reactions appear in spite of any intellectual or 
  emotional training.  Only after repeating the process eighteen to 
  twenty times did I finally gather enough courage (and curiosity) 
  to stay out more than a few seconds and observe objectively.  The 
  death fear was either sublimated or assuaged by familiarity.  
  Others who have tried the technique have stopped after the first 
  or second experience, unable to suppress this first aspect of the 
  barrier.
        The second aspect of the fear barrier is also linked with 
  the death fear:  will I be able to return to the physical or to 
  get back "in."  With no guidelines or specific instructions, this 
  remained a prime fear of mine for several years, until I found a 
  simple answer that made it work every time.  Mine was a matter of 
  rationalization.  I had been "out" several hundred times, and the 
  evidence showed that I was able to return safely one way or 
  another.  Therefore, the probability was that I would return 
  safely the next time also.
        The third basic fear was fear of the unknown.  The rules 
  and dangers of our physical environment can be determined to a 
  reasonable degree.  We have spent our lifetime building up 
  reflexes to cope with them.  Now, suddenly, here is another, 
  completely different set of rules, another world of entirely 
  different possibilities, populated by beings who seem to know all 
  of them.  You have no rule book, no road map, no book of 
  etiquette, no applicable courses in physics and chemistry, no 
  incontrovertible authority you can turn to for advice and 
  answers.  Many a missionary has been killed in a remote land 
  under just such conditions!
        I must confess that this third fear still crops up, and 
  with justification.  The unknown is still to a great degree 
  unknown.  Such penetration as I have made has brought forth 
  pitifully few unalterable and consistent rules.  I can say only 
  that, to date, I have survived these expeditions.  There is so 
  much that I do not comprehend or understand, and more that is 
 beyond my ability to do so.
        Another fear is the consequent effects on the physical 
  body as well as on the conscious mind of participation and 
  experimentation in this form of activity.  This too is very real, 
  as our history, at least to my knowledge, does not seem to 
  contain accurate reporting of this area.  We have studies on 
  paranoia, schizophrenia, phobias, epilepsy, alcoholism, sleeping 
  sickness, acne, virus diseases, etc., but no assembled body of 
  objective data on the pathology of the Second Body.
        I do not know how to circumvent the fear barrier, except 
  by cautious initial steps that create familiarity bit by bit as 
  you proceed.  I hope this writing in its entirety will provide 
  the psychological "step" over the barrier.  It may help to 
  recognize conditions and patterns that are familiar in that at 
 least one person has had similar experiences and survived.
        The following are the necessary procedural developments.

  1.  RELAXATION

        The ability to relax is the first prerequisite, perhaps 
  even the first step itself.  It is deliberately generated, and is 
  both physical and metal.  Included with the condition of 
  relaxation must be the relief from any sense of time urgency.  
  You cannot be in a hurry.  No pending appointments or anticipated 
  calls for your services or attention must clutter up your 
  thoughts.  Impatience of any sort can effectively stifle your 
  prospects for success.
        There are many techniques available for obtaining this 
  kind of relaxation, and a number of good books cover the subject.  
  Simply select the method that works best for you.  There are 
  three general methods that seem to work, two of which are 
  applicable in these exercises.
        Auto- or self-hypnosis.  Most self-study books offer this 
  method in different versions.  Again, it is a matter of which is 
  most effective for you individually.  The most efficient and 
  speediest way is to learn self-hypnosis through the training of 
  an experienced hypnotist.  He can set up posthypnotic suggestion 
  that will bring immediate results.  However, select a tutor with 
  care.  Responsible practitioners are rare, and neophytes 
  numerous.  Forms of meditation can be converted to effective 
  relaxation.
        Borderland sleep state.  This is perhaps the easiest and 
  most natural method and usually ensures relaxation of both body 
  and mind simultaneously.  The difficulty here lies in the 
  maintenance of that delicate "edge" between sleep and complete 
  wakefulness.  All too often, you simply fall asleep and that ends 
  the experiment for the moment.
        By practice, conscious awareness can be taken up to this 
  borderland state, into it, and through it, to your destination.  
  There is no way to achieve it that I know of that than practice.  
  The technique is as follows:  lie down, preferably when you are 
  tired and sleepy.  As you become relaxed and start to drift off 
  to sleep, hold your mental attention on something, anything, with 
  your eyes closed.  Once you can hold the borderland state 
  indefinitely without falling asleep, you have passed the first 
  stage.  It is, however, a normal pattern to fall asleep many 
  times in the process of this consciousness deepening.  You will 
  not be able to help yourself, but do not let this discourage you.  
  It is not an overnight process.  You will know you are 
  successful when you become bored and expect something more to 
  happen!
        If attempts to remain at the borderland state make you 
  nervous, this too is a normal reaction.  The conscious mind seems 
  to resent sharing the authority it has during wakefulness.  If 
  this occurs, break the relaxation, get up and walk around, 
  exercise, and lie down again.  If this does not relieve the 
  nervousness, go to sleep and try another time.  You are just not 
  in the mood.
        When your "fixative," the picture thought you have been 
  holding, slips away and you find yourself thinking of something 
  else, you are close to completion of condition A.
        Once you have achieved Condition A - the ability to hold 
  calmly in the borderland state indefinitely with your mind on an 
  exclusive thought - you are ready for the next step.  Condition B 
  is similar, but with the concentration eliminated.  Do not think 
  of anything, but remain poised between wakefulness and sleep.  
  Simply look through your closed eyes at the blackness ahead of 
  you.  Do nothing more.  After a number of these exercises, you 
  may hallucinate "mind pictures," or light patterns.  These seem 
  to have no great significance, and may merely be forms of neural 
  discharge.  I can remember, for example, attempting to achieve 
  this state after watching a football game on TV for several 
  hours.  All I saw were mind pictures of football players 
  tackling, running, passing, etc.  It took at least a half hour 
  for the pattern to fade away.  These mind pictures are apparently 
  related to your visual concentration in the preceding eight or 
  ten hours.  The more intense the concentration, the longer it 
  seems to take to eliminate the impressions.
        You have accomplished Condition B when you are able to 
  lie indefinitely after the impressions have faded away, with no 
  nervousness, and seeing nothing but blackness.
        Condition C is a systematic deepening of consciousness 
  while in the B state.  This is approached by carefully letting go 
  of your rigid hold on the borderland sleep edge and drifting 
  deeper little by little during each exercise.  You will learn to 
  establish degrees of this deepening of consciousness by "going 
  down" to a given level and returning at will.  You will recognize 
  these degrees by the shutting down of various sensory mechanism 
  inputs.  The sense of touch apparently goes first.  You seem to 
  have no feeling in any part of your body.  Smell and taste soon 
  follow.  The auditory signals are next, and the last to fade out 
  is vision. (Sometimes the last two are reversed; I suspect that 
  the reason for vision being last is that exercises calls for the 
  use of the visual network, even in blackness.)
        Condition D is the achievement of C when one is fully 
  rested and refreshed, rather than tired and sleepy, at the 
  beginning of the exercise.  This is quite important, and not 
  nearly as easy to achieve as it is to write about.  To enter the 
  relaxation state full of energy and wakefulness is great 
  insurance for maintaining conscious control.  The best approach 
  to take in the early attempts at the Condition D exercise is to 
  start it immediately after you wake up from a nap or a night's 
  sleep.  Start the exercise before you move around in bed 
  physically, while your body is still relaxed from sleep and your 
  mind is fully alert.  Don't take too many liquids before 
  sleeping, and you won't have the immediate need to empty your 
  bladder upon awakening.
        Induction by drugs.  None of the relaxation-producing 
  drugs that are readily available seem to help.  Barbiturates 
  force a loss of conscious control and only bring a confused state 
  in deeper consciousness.  The same is true, to a lesser degree, 
  of tranquilizers.  Relaxation is obtained, but at the cost of 
  perception.  Alcohol in any form brings similar effects.  More 
  exotic compounds such as the alkaloids and hallucinogens may be 
  more productive.  I have more had enough experience or contact 
  with these to offer an opinion or even an educated guess.  It 
  would seem that far-reaching research is indicated for these.

  2.  STATE OF VIBRATION

        The generation of this effect is the most critical of 
  all.  The subjective sensory impression it creates is described 
  elsewhere.  Once it is achieved, you will certainly not have to 
  be told you've been successful, and you will have passed another 
  major hurdle.
        All that can be given are clues.  At the present level of 
  knowledge, it is not known why these things work.  It is much 
  like turning a switch to obtain light without having any idea of 
  what the switch does, where the electricity comes from, or why 
  and how it acts upon a bulb enclosing tungsten filaments.
        At the least, all of the material contained herein has 
  been established as empirically as possible.  Aside from the 
  principal human laboratory -- this writer -- several other 
  individuals have tried the pattern.  Suffice it to say that they 
  have obtained positive results.
        Aids to the vibrational state.  Lie down, in whatever 
  position is most conducive to your state of relaxation, but with 
  your body along a north-south axis, with yard to magnetic north.  
  Loosen any clothes you may be wearing.  Keep covered so that you 
  feel just slightly warmer than is generally comfortable to you.  
  Remove any jewelry or metal objects close to or touching your 
  skin.  Be sure that your arms, legs, and neck will relax in a 
  position that will not impede circulation.  Darken the room 
  enough to ensure that no light can be seen through your eyelids.  
  Do not use a completely blacked-out room, as you will then have 
  no visual point of reference.
        Absolute requisites.  Ensure without question that you 
  will not be disturbed in any way, either by direct physical 
  intervention, a phone ringing, or other interrupting noises.  Do 
  not set a time limit or a deadline.  The time you spend in the 
  experiment is not more valuable spent elsewhere and you should 
  have nothing impending that might cut short this activity.
        Achieve the state of relaxation.  Do this by whatever 
  method you have found workable in your own individual case.  Work 
  to Condition D or its equivalent, and hold at the deepest level 
  of relaxation possible without weakening your consciousness.  
  When you have taken as much time as you need to be sure you have 
  obtained this, mentally repeat, "I will consciously perceive and 
  remember all that I encounter during this relaxation period.  I 
  will recall in detail when I am completely awake only those 
  matters that will be beneficial to my physical and mental well 
  being."  Say this mentally five times.  Then being breathing 
  through your half-opened mouth.
        Establish the vibration waves.  As you continue breathing 
  through your half-opened mouth, concentrate on the blackness in 
  front of your closed eyes.  Look first into the blackness at a 
  spot a foot away from your forehead.  Now move your point of 
  concentration to three feet away, and then six feet.  Hold for a 
  while until the point is firmly established.  From there, turn 
  the point 90 degrees upward, on a line parallel to the body axis 
  and reaching out above the head.  Reach for the vibrations at 
  that spot.  When you find them, mentally pull them back into your 
  head.
        This simple description must pose many questions.  Reach 
  out with what?  Pull what back into your head?  Let us try 
  another method of explanation.  Begin a mental concentration, as 
  if two lines were extending from the outer sides of your closed 
  eyes.  Think of them as converging at a point a foot away from 
  your forehead.  Visualize a resistance or pressure when these two 
  lines meet, as if two charged electric wires were joined, or 
  poles of a magnet forced together.  Now extend this juncture 
  about three feet, or the length of your arm outstretched.  Due to 
  the angular difference, the pressure pattern is altered.  A 
  compression of the space (forces?) between the converging lines 
  must result, and the pressure must therefore increase to maintain 
  the convergence.  After the three-foot length has been 
  established and held, extend the intersection point out to six 
  feet away from your head, or 30 degrees.  (So that you can 
  properly visualize the exact angle that represents 30 degrees, it 
  may help to mark off a 30 degree angle by protractor on paper and 
  memorize how it looks.)
        Once you have learned to establish and maintain the 30 
  degree angle outward (or roughly six feet away), bend the point 
  of intersection 90 degrees (or in an "L") upward in the direction 
  of your head but parallel to the axis of your body.  You "reach" 
  with this point of intersection.  Stretch or reach with this 
  point more and more, until you obtain a reaction.  Again, you 
  will know when you obtain it.  It is as if a surging, hissing, 
  rhythmically pulsating wave of fiery sparks comes roaring into 
  your head.  From there it seems to sweep throughout your body, 
  making it rigid and immovable.
        Once you have learned the process, or the concept, it 
  will not be necessary to go through the entire routine.  You need 
  only to think of the vibrations while in a relaxed state, and 
  they come into being.  A conditioned reflex has been established, 
  or a neuron path that can be followed again and again.  Again, it 
  is not a technique that can be achieved the first time it is 
  tried.  The probability of success increases with each successive 
  effort.  The more often you attempt it, the more likely you are 
  to have positive results.  However, once you have succeeded, it 
  is not always repeatable at will.  There are still many variables 
  that interfere which have yet to be isolated and identified.  But 
  it does "work" often enough to be subject to continued study.

  3.  CONTROL OF VIBRATIONS

        When you have obtained the vibrational state, there are 
  definite guidelines to follow.  The utilization of this condition 
  under conscious control is the goal you are seeking.  To 
  accomplish this, there are careful procedures to observe.  The 
  should, of course, be followed in sequence, in the order 
  presented.
        There is no evidence to indicate that this vibrational 
  state has a deleterious effect on either the mind or the physical 
  body.  Here, then, are some procedures that can be applied 
  systematically.  They are a distillate of literally hundreds 
  trial-and-error experiments.
        Acclimatization and accommodation.  This is a way of 
  saying that you should let yourself get accustomed to the feel of 
  this unusual condition.  All fear and panic must be eliminated 
  when you feel waves like an electric shock without pain 
  permeating your body.  The best method seems to be to do nothing 
  when they occur.  Lie quietly and objectively analyze them until 
  they fade away of their own accord.  This usually takes place in 
  about five minutes.  After several such experiences, you will 
  realize you are not being electrocuted.  Try to avoid panicky 
  struggling to break the paralytic condition.  You can break it by 
  sitting up with great force of will, but you will be disappointed 
  with yourself for doing so.  After all, this was what you were 
  trying to achieve.
        Manipulation and moderation.  Once you have eliminated 
  the fear reactions, you are ready for controls steps.  First, 
  mentally "direct" the vibrations into a ring, or force them all 
  into your head.  Then mentally push them down along your body to 
  your toes, then back up to your head.  Start them sweeping in a 
  wave over your body rhythmically, from head to toes and then back 
  again.  After you have given the wave momentum, let it proceed of 
  its own accord until it fades away.  It should take about ten 
  seconds - five down, five back - for the wave to make the 
  complete circuit, from head to toes and back.  Practice this 
  until the vibration wave begins instantly upon mental command, 
  and moves steadily until fade-out.
        By this time, you will have noticed the "roughness" of 
  the vibrations at times, as if your body is being severely shaken 
  right down to the molecular or atomic level.  This may be 
  somewhat uncomfortable, and you will feel a desire to "smooth" 
  them out.  This is accomplished by "pulsing" them mentally to 
  increase their frequency.  Their original vibratory rate seems to 
  be on the order of some twenty-seven cycles per second (this is 
  the rate of the vibration itself, not the head-to-toe frequency).  
  The pattern responds to this pulsing command very subtly and 
  slowly at first.  Your first indication of success is when the 
  vibrations no longer seem rough and shaking.  You are well on 
  your way to control when they produce a steady, solid effect.
        It is essential that you learn and apply this speed-up 
  process.  The faster vibration effect is the form that permits 
  disassociation from the physical.  Once you have set the momentum 
  of the speed-up, the acceleration seems to take place 
  automatically.  Eventually, you may sense the vibrations only as 
  they begin.  They will increase their frequency - like a motor 
  starting up - until the frequency is so high that you are unable 
  to perceive it.  At this phase, the sensory effect is one of body 
  warmth, slightly tingling, but not excessively so.
        Consistent achievement of this stage is the sign that you 
  are ready for the first physical disassociation experiments.  
  Another word of warning is in order here.  Beyond this point, I 
  believe you cannot turn back.  Ultimately, you will be committed 
  to the reality of this other existence.  How this will affect 
  your personality, your daily life, your future, and your 
  philosophies rests entirely with you as an individual.  For once 
  you have been "opened" to this other reality, you cannot 
  completely shut it out again, try as you might.  The pressure of 
  material affairs may sublimate it for a time, but it will return.  
  You cannot always stay on guard against its reopening.  As you 
  start to sleep or awaken, when you merely relax, the vibrational 
  surge may come without call.  You can shut it off, of course, but 
  eventually you become too tired to bother - and your are off on 
  another excursion.  You sense that you are fighting against 
  yourself.
        And who wants to fight one's self - at the price of a 
  good night's sleep.


              From the book 'Journeys out of the Body'
                        by Robert Monroe




Press any key to continue

                   Heaven 'N' Hell's Occult Database
                        ~~~Astral Projection~~~

 1.  Monroe Techniques for Astral Projection
 2.  Astral Projection:  An Introduction
 3.  Astral Projection:  The Wiccan Method
 4.  Using the Body of Light
 5.  Important Notes on Astral Projection
 6.  Suggested Reading on Astral Projection
 7.  The Protection Circle for Projecting
 8.  The Cabala
 9.  Astral Projection using Dream Control
10.  Magick and Astral Projection
11.  Magick:  Spirits and Thoughtforms
12.  Magick:  Elementals and Forces
13.  Magick:  The Four Worlds
14.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part I
15.  Journeys Out of the Body   Part II

Select (Q=Exit)> 15
<-------------------------------------------------------------->
<__Astral_Projection_Part_II_><Call:___________________________>
<__The Serpation Process_____><______The Falcons Nest__________>
<__By: The Falcon____________><_______(302)-875-7465___________>
<__Uploaded By:The Loon______><______60 Megz_12oo Baud_________>
<--------------------------------------------------------------


 
The following was taken directly from the book Journeys Out of 
the Body, by Robert A. Monroe.

                     THE SEPARATION PROCESS

After you have achieved the state of vibration and some control 
of your stage of relaxation, one additional factor must be 
considered.  It is probable that you have already obtained it, 
since it is ordinarily a product of the previous exercises.  
However, it should be emphasized.
        	This factor is thought control.  In the state of 
vibration, you are apparently subject to every thought, both 
willful and involuntary, that crosses your mind.  Thus you must 
be as close to "no thought" or "single thought" (concentration) 
as possible.  If one stray idea passes through your mind, you 
respond instantly, and sometimes in an undesirable manner.  I 
suspect that one is never completely free of such misdirection.  
At least I have not been, which may account for the many 
inexplicable trips to places and people I do not know.  They seem 
to be triggered by thoughts or ideas I didn't realize I had, 
below the conscious level.  The only approach is to do the best 
you can.
        	With this in mind, the first practices of disassociating 
the Second from the physical body should be limited in time and 
action.  What follows is designed basically as a familiarization 
and orientation technique which should permit an approach to 
disassociation without fear or concern.
        	Release of extremities.  This serves to acquaint you with 
the sensation of the Second Body without full commitment.  After 
relaxation and creation of the vibration state, work with either 
your right or left hand and arm, one at a time.  This is 
important, as it will be your first affirmation of the reality of 
the Second.  With one hand, reach for any object - floor, wall, 
door, or whatever - that you remember as being beyond the reach 
of your physical arm.  Reach for that object.  Make the reaching 
process neither upward nor downward, but out in the direction 
your arm is pointing.  Reach as if you were stretching your arm, 
not raising or lowering it.  A variation is simply to reach out 
with the hand and arm in the same manner with no special object 
in mind.  Often this method is better, as you then have no 
preconceived idea of what you will "feel."
        	When you reach out in this fashion and feel nothing, push 
your hand a little farther.  Keep pushing gently, as if 
stretching you arm, until your hand encounters some material 
object.  If the vibration pattern is in effect, it will work, and 
your hand will eventually feel or touch something.  When it does, 
examine with your sense of touch the physical details of the 
object.  Feel for any cracks, grooves, or unusual details which 
you will later be able to identify.  At this point, nothing will 
seem unusual.  Your sensory mechanisms will tell you that you are 
touching the object with your physical hand.
        	Here, then, is your first test.  After acquainting 
yourself with the object with your outstretched hand, straighten 
out your hand and push against the object with your fingertips.  
You will encounter resistance at first.  Push a little harder, 
and gently overcome the resistance you feel.  At this point, your 
hand will seem to go right through the object.  Keep pushing 
until your hand is completely through the object and meets some 
other physical object.  Identify the second object by touch.  
Then carefully withdraw your hand, back through the first object, 
and slowly back to normal, so that it feels as if it is where it 
"belongs."
        	With this, decrease the vibrations.  The best way to do 
this is slowly to attempt to move the physical body.  Think of 
the physical body, and open your physical eyes.  Bring back your 
physical senses, deliberately.
        	Once the vibrations have faded away completely, lie still 
for a few minutes for full and complete return.  Then get up and 
make a notation of the object which you "felt," locating it 
relative to the position of your hand and arm when you were lying 
down.  Note the details of both the first and second objects 
which you felt.  Having done this, compare your description with 
the actual first object.  Make special note of small details 
which you could not have seen from a distance.  Physically feel 
the object to compare it with what you felt under the vibrations.
        	Examine the second object in the same manner.  You may 
not have been consciously aware of its presence or position prior 
to the experiment.  This too is important.  Test the line of 
direction from the place where your physical hand lay, through 
the first object and up to the second.  Is it a straight line?
        	Check your results.  Was the first object you touched 
physically located at a distance it would have been absolutely 
impossible to reach without physical movement?  Did the details 
of the object - especially the minute details - coincide with the 
notes you have made?  Make the same comparison for the second 
object.
        	If your answers are affirmative, you have had your first 
success.  If the facts do not check out, try again another day.  
Almost without qualification, if you have produced the 
vibrational state, you can perform this exercise.
        	You can also practice the following quite easily.  After 
producing the vibrational state, lying on your back, arms either 
at your sides or on your chest, gently lift your arms without 
looking at them and touch your fingers together.  Do this quite 
casually, abstractly, and remember the sensory results.  Once you 
have clasped your hands above your chest, look at them first with 
your closed eyes.  If you have moved easily enough, you will see 
both physical and non-physical arms.  Your physical arms will be 
at rest at your side or upon your chest.  The sensory impressions 
will be with the non-physical arms and hands above your physical 
body.  You should test this phenomenon as many times as you wish, 
however you desire.  Prove to yourself that you are moving not 
your physical arms, but something else.  Do it by whatever means 
are necessary to give you full assurance of this reality.
        	It is important always to return your non-physical arms 
to full conjunction with their physical counterparts before 
"shutting off" the vibration state.  Although there may be no 
severe aftereffect if this is not done, I think it best not to 
find out in the early stages.
        	Disassociation technique.  The simplest method to use in 
separating from the physical is the "lift-out" procedure.  The 
intent here it not to travel to far-off places, but to get 
acquainted with the sensation in your own room, with familiar 
surroundings.  The reason for this is that the first true 
experience will then be examined and explored with identifiable 
points of reference.
        	In order to assist in this orientation, it is better that 
these first complete disassociation exercises be conducted during 
daylight.  Test for yourself your needs in regard to the amount 
of light in the room.  Avoid using an electric light if possible.
        	To establish the condition, achieve the vibrational 
state, and maintain complete control of your thought processes.  
You are going to stay only in the confines of your familiar room.  
Think of getting lighter, of floating upward, of how nice it 
would be to float upward.  Be sure to think how nice it would be, 
as the subjective associated thought is most important.  You want 
to do this because it is something you will respond to 
emotionally; you react even before the act, in anticipation.  If 
you continue to hold only these thoughts, you will disassociate 
and float gently upward from your physical.  You may not achieve 
it the first time, or the second.  But quite surely, if you have 
achieved the preceding exercises, you will achieve it.
        	A second method is the "rotation" technique, which has 
been mentioned elsewhere.  Under the same prescribed conditions, 
slowly try to turn over, just as if you were turning over in bed 
to be more comfortable.  Make no attempt to help yourself rotate 
with either arms or legs.  Start turning by twisting the top of 
your body, your head and shoulders, first.  By all means move 
slowly, exerting gently but firm pressure.  If you do not, you 
may become loose and actually spin like a log rolling in water 
before you can alter the pressure.  Such action is disconcerting 
only because you may lose all orientation and be forced to find 
your way back carefully in rotation juncture.
        	The ease with which you begin to turn, with no friction 
or sense of weight, will inform you that you have begun to 
succeed in disassociating.  As this happens, turn slowly until 
you feel that you have moved 180 degrees (i.e., face to face with 
your physical body).  It is uncanny how you will recognize this 
position.  this 180 degrees about face is merely two 90 degree 
turns, and without orientation, it is easy to sense.
        	Once you are in the 180 degree position, stop the 
rotation by merely thinking of doing so.  Without hesitation, 
think of floating upward, backing up away from the physical body.  
Again, if you have reached the vibrational state successfully, 
this method will surely bring results.
        	Of the two separation techniques, the first should be 
tried before the second.  Then, after both have been examined and 
tested, the one that seems easiest to you should be utilized.
        	Local experiments and familiarization.  Once you have 
succeeded in the separation process, it is most important for 
your own objective continuity that you remain in complete 
control.  The only possible way to do this seems to be by staying 
close to the physical in the early stages.  Whatever you may feel 
emotionally, keep in close proximity to the physical.  This 
admonition is made not because of any known danger, but so that 
you will maintain a step-by-step familiarity and thus perceive 
for yourself exactly what is taking place.  Wild, uncontrolled 
trips at this stage may well produce uncomfortable situations and 
conditions that will force you to relearn much of what you have 
already achieved.  The process of mental acclamation will be 
different from any you have ever consciously experienced.  The 
gradual adaptation will greatly enhance your peace of mind and 
confidence.
        	At this point, the principal exercise is to return.  Keep 
your separation distance no more than three feet away, hovering 
over the physical.  Do not make any attempt at this time to move 
laterally or farther "up."  How do you know how far aware you 
are?  Again, this is something you sense.  Your vision now is 
zero.  You have conditioned yourself not to open your eyes, and 
let them remain closed for the moment.  Stay close to the 
physical.  The mental concept of this will keep you in proper 
range.
        	For the next three or four exercises, do nothing but 
practice getting "out" and returning to the physical.  To return 
under these conditions, merely "think" yourself back into the 
physical, and you will return.  If you have used the first method 
of separation, the reintegration is relatively simple.  When you 
are back in exact alignment, you will be able to move any portion 
of the physical body and reactivate any or all of your physical 
senses.  Each time you return, open your physical eyes and 
physically sit up so that you know you are completely "back 
together."  This is to ensure orientation, to instill confidence 
that you can return at will, and most important, to assure 
yourself of continued contact with the material world in which 
you now belong.  Whatever you believe, this reassurance is most 
necessary.
        	If you have applied the rotation method, move slowly back 
toward the physical, again by thinking of it, and when you feel 
you have made complete contact, start your rotation back 180 
degrees to conjunction with the physical.  It seems to make no 
difference whether you continue the circle of rotation or reverse 
and turn back in a motion opposite to that which helped you 
release.
        	In both techniques, there seems to be a slight, 
click-like jerk when you are again in conjunction with the 
physical.  An exact description of this sensation is quite 
difficult, but you will recognize it.  Always wait a few moments 
before sitting up after you have returned, primarily to avoid any 
possible uneasiness.  Give yourself some time to readjust to the 
physical environment.  The physical act of sitting up provides 
evidence of continuity in a demonstrable form;  you will know 
that you can consciously, willfully act in a physical movement 
interspersed with experiments in the non-physical environment and 
retain conscious awareness throughout the process.
        	You will have completed the cycle when you are able to 
separate, return to the physical, sit up and note the time, go 
back to the separation process, and return to the the physical a 
second time, all without loss of conscious continuity.  The 
notation of the clock reading will help in this.
        	The next step in familiarization is to separate to a 
slightly farther distance, applying the same procedures.  Any 
distance up to ten feet will do.  Always keep mental 
concentration on a single purpose without stray though patterns, 
especially in these extended exercises.  After you have become 
accustomed to the feeling of being more "apart," mentally tell 
yourself that you can see.  Do not think of the act of opening 
your eyes, as this may well transmit you to the physical and 
diminish the vibrational state.  Instead, think of seeing, that 
you can see - and you will see.  There will be no sensation of 
eye opening.  The blackness will just disappear suddenly.  At 
first, your seeing may be dim, as if in half-light, indistinct or 
myopic.  It is not known at present why this is so, but with use, 
your vision will become more sharp.
        	The first sight of your physical body lying below you 
should not be unnerving if you have applied the previous 
exercises.  After you are satisfied that it is "you" lying there, 
visually examine the room from the perspective of your position.  
Mentally move slightly in one direction or another, slowly and 
never violently.  Move your arms and legs to reassure yourself of 
your mobility.  Roll around and cavort in the new element if you 
wish, always staying within the prescribed range of the physical.
        	At this stage, you may be filled with strong desires 
which can be almost overwhelming.  This is the greatest problem 
you may face at the moment.  These desires, appearing unannounced 
and unexpectedly, are subjective and emotional, and can easily 
submerge the deductive reasoning position you have built up so 
carefully.  The more important clue is to understand that they 
must not be labeled evil or wrong.  They simply exist, and you 
must learn to cope with them.  The rule is do not deny the 
existence of these desires.  Recognize them as a deep, integral 
part of you that cannot be "thought" away.  Until you do this, 
you will be unable to control them.
        	These desires include freedom (to revel in the release 
from physical limitations and gravitational effects), sexual 
contact (first with a loved one, then at a strictly sensory 
level), religious ecstasy (varying, based upon the intensity of 
earlier life conditioning), and others that may originate in 
unusual environmental experiences of the individual.  The belief 
held here is that everyone will have these subjective desires 
despite the most stringent discipline and self-analysis.  What we 
speak of are those elements far below surface consciousness that 
comprise your own fundamental character and personality.  As has 
been explained earlier, these elements emerge because you are no 
longer just a conscious, intellectual self.  You are, perhaps for 
the first time, an entirety.  Every part of you will be heard 
from and must be considered in any action you take.  The trick is 
to keep the conscious, reasoning you (the one most cognizant of 
the physical world) in a dominant position.  It isn't easy.
        	Therefore, you will run into problems if you attempt a 
denial of self.  Instead, you must accept these sometimes 
surprising drives for what they are - a part of you - and go on 
about your business.  You cannot eliminate them, but you can set 
them aside for the moment.  Offer the promise of future 
fulfillment, and you will have no resistance.  These needs can 
understand diversion, as they have been subjected to it for as 
long as you have lived!
        	When you have reasonable dealt with these other parts of 
you, and have demonstrated this to your satisfaction five to 
seven times in a near-separation condition (in the same room at 
close vicinity), you are ready for more distance and specific 
voyages.  All of the foregoing presumes that you have overcome 
most of the fears you have encountered up to this stage.  If you 
have not, repeat the exercises which produce fear until 
familiarity washes it away.
        	Infallible return signal.  As noted, the fear of being 
unable to re-enter the physical is a basic deterrent to leaving 
the body.  In my early experimentation, I encountered this 
problem many times.  Happily, a solution was found whenever this 
difficulty presented itself.  After careful analysis of hundreds 
of test, an infallible technique was evolved.  The only guarantee 
that can be given is that it has continued to work for me.
        	First, if you have difficulty, don't panic.  Above all, 
keep your rational thought processes dominant.  Terror only 
aggravates the situation.  Internalize this simple formula, and 
call upon it:  to return to the physical body from wherever you 
are, think of your physical body.  Mentally begin to move some 
part of your physical body.  Move a finger or a toe.  Physically 
take a deep, deliberate breath of air.  Reactivate your five 
physical senses, or any one of them.  Move your jaw.  Swallow, or 
move your tongue.  Any act that must involve physical motion or 
use of physical energy will work.  If one doesn't immediately 
take effect, try another.  Without question, some such thought 
action will bring you back into the physical.  It is merely a 
question of which one works best with you.
        	When this technique is applied, return is virtually 
immediate.  It is an automatic direction finder and rocket blast 
combined.  Reintegration seems to be instantaneous when this is 
used.  However, this immediate-return method eliminates your 
power of choice or decision.  Once it is put into effect, you 
cannot stop it.  You will return to the physical without any 
opportunity to know what is happening, and how it is taking 
place.  Thus it should be thought of as an emergency reserve 
measure rather than a consistent step in your methodology.
        	Under ordinary conditions, you should think of or feel 
the direction and location of your physical body.  Then, with no 
urgency and in a calm, willful manner, start to return.
        	The mechanics of movement.  Now that you have set up the 
proper controls, including the emergency return signal, you are 
ready for the most momentous step of all: to "go" to a distant 
point and return.  It is definitely not advisable deliberately to 
attempt this exercise before you have completed all previous test 
and are at ease with them.  It is quite possible that you may 
have inadvertently gone to a distance point during the early 
stages.  If this is the case, you can recognize the importance of 
following a procedure.
        	First, set your "aiming point." Remember the rule:  you 
must "go" to a person, not to a place.  It may be possible to 
achieve the latter if you have a deep emotional attachment to the 
locale, but the experiments to date have shown little success 
along this line.  This, of course, may be due to the personality 
of the writer.
        	Select the person (living) whom you desire to visit.  
Choose someone that you know quite well.  Do not inform this 
person that you are making the test.  This is most important so 
as to rule out any suggestion on his or her part.  Make this 
selection before you enter the vibrational state and before you 
start your relaxation process.
        	Establish relaxation and the vibrational state.  Use your 
chose method to separate.  Move away to near distance, six or 
seven feet from the physical.  With your vision still in 
"blackness," cautiously "think" of the person whom you plan to 
visit.  Think not only of the name, but of the personality and 
character of the person.  Do not try to visualize a physical 
being, for it is the reflection of the inner person that will 
attract you, rather than the physical attributes.
        	As you think in this pattern, turn yourself around slowly 
in a 360 degree rotation.  Somewhere in the circuit, you will 
"feel" the right direction.  It is an intuitive thing, a sureness 
that attracts you like a gentle magnet.  Even so, you can check 
for verification.  Go past this point in your turn, and come back 
to it.  Again, you will sense it very strongly.  Stop, facing 
this direction.  Think that you have vision, and begin to see.
        	To give yourself motion toward your destination, employ a 
total Second Body version of the "stretch," which you practiced 
in your first exercise with hand and arm.  The easiest method is 
to place your non-physical arms over your head, thumbs latched 
together like a diver about to plunge into water. With your arms 
in this position, think of the person you wish to visit and 
stretch your body in that direction.  You may move fast or 
slowly, depending upon the effort of this stretching action.  The 
harder you "stretch," the faster you go.  At your destination, 
you will automatically stop stretching without realizing it.
        	To return, apply a similar method.  Think of your 
physical body, reach out and stretch, and you will return prompt.  
Usually no more is required than this.  There is some speculation 
regarding the necessity of keeping your arms in the diver's 
position.  Originally, it was assumed that this stance would 
break a path or ward off any encountered objects with the hands 
rather than the head.  It does help create the stretching action 
better than keeping the arms at the sides.

        	There you have it.  The foregoing may seem ritualistic, 
but it is not intended to.  It may appear no better than the 
magic formula of the Middle Ages.  To date, there are no 
explanations of why the technique works.  Perhaps in the years to 
come, interested and curious physicists, chemists, neurologists, 
and other scientists will develop workable theories to fit 
the action.  If enough people undertake to examine it 
empirically, perhaps a new science will result.
        	In the meantime, the boundaries can disappear for you, 
too, if you have courage and patience.  The only way you can 
accept and know this extended reality is to experience it 
yourself.
        	Good Luck!
 


Press any key to continue

Daily quota exceeded!

Daily quota exceeded!

Connected: 47 minutes. 77 minutes remaining.

Check out CT's most extensive databases!!!

Heaven 'N' Hell > f



Heaven 'N' Hell Files System
 
                 Heaven 'N' Hell File Directory
 
              1) Games                2) Utilities
               3) Docs                 4) Misc
                5) IBM Games            6) IBM Utilities
                 7) IBM Pictures         8) IBM Misc
 
 
            L=List NEW files          S=Scan NEW files
            l=List ALL files          s=Scan ALL files


                      3/1 download/upload ratio!!!


Select> 3

                  Upload ALL Text or Documentation to
                        this section ONLY!!!




Heaven 'N' Hell Files System

Current file directory is DOCS

Files Cmd (?=List)> l



Heaven 'N' Hell Download Directory - DOCS

[A]ll files
[N]ew since last listed
[S]ince specified date
[F]ile number >=
[L]ocate/search

Select> a



File # 85   Filename: THEHACKR.ARC

Uploaded on  : Apr 30, 1990          Uploader     : RANDY SMITH
Application  : Text or Docs          Level        : 0
File Type    : Binary                Language     : ARC
Byte count   : 21632                 Access Count : 7
Last Download: Jan 23, 1992          Download Time: 1 minutes
Blocks       : 170-Xmodem/SEAlink,  22-Y/Zmodem,  6-Fmodem,  43-B Protocol

Description:

First chapter of the book THE HACKER


List Cmd (?=List)> ?

[A]dd to ARC/LZH/ZIPdl
[B]atch Mark
[D]ownload
[N]ext
[P]revious
[S]how Again
[T]ype File (Will extract from Archive)
[V]erbose Archive
[Q]uit

List Cmd (?=List)> q



Heaven 'N' Hell Files System

Current file directory is DOCS

Files Cmd (?=List)> ?


Heaven 'N' Hell Files System

                     Heaven 'N' Hell's File Transfer Menu

[A]-Archive tools (for downloading files from archive)
[B]-Batch file transfer (transfers marked files in batch)
[C]-Choose directories for listing ALL NEW files
[D]-Download a file
[F]-Find (search) file
[L]-List files (full descriptions)
[M]-Mark a file for batch transfer
[O]-Other file directories
[Q]-Quit to main menu
[S]-Scan files (abbreivated descriptions)
[T]-Toggle continuous scroll of directory listings
[U]-Upload a file
[V]-Verbose listing of an ARC, LZH or ZIP file
[W]-Wide directory listing (filenames and size only)

Note: To download a group of processed files from ARC's, [D]ownload
      filename ARCDL.ARC


6747264 total bytes available for uploading
2067584 bytes maximum upload file length

Current file directory is DOCS

Files Cmd (?=List)> 


Heaven 'N' Hell Files System

                     Heaven 'N' Hell's File Transfer Menu

[A]-Archive tools (for downloading files from archive)
[B]-Batch file transfer (transfers marked files in batch)
[C]-Choose directories for listing ALL NEW files
[D]-Download a file
[F]-Find (search) file
[L]-List files (full descriptions)
[M]-Mark a file for batch transfer
[O]-Other file directories
[Q]-Quit to main menu
[S]-Scan files (abbreivated descriptions)
[T]-Toggle continuous scroll of directory listings
[U]-Upload a file
[V]-Verbose listing of an ARC, LZH or ZIP file
[W]-Wide directory listing (filenames and size only)

Note: To download a group of processed files from ARC's, [D]ownload
      filename ARCDL.ARC


6747264 total bytes available for uploading
2067584 bytes maximum upload file length

Current file directory is DOCS

Files Cmd (?=List)> s



Heaven 'N' Hell Download Directory - DOCS

[A]ll files
[N]ew since last listed
[S]ince specified date
[F]ile number >=
[L]ocate/search

Select> a

Number Filename       Length  U/L'ed   Description

   85)THEHACKR.ARC   21632  04/30/90  First chapter of the book THE HACKER
  962)GODS.DOC       14002  07/03/91  Docs to Gods
 1051)POLICY4.ARJ    25077  08/27/91  Fidonet policy for Sysops and members and
 1052)CYGNUSCD.ARJ   261944 08/27/91  List of files available from the Cygnus X
 1199)PHONE.FUN      11648  12/29/91  Phone Anarchy 1
 1206)EXPLOSIV.TXT   640    01/04/92  Compact xplosive. When in the liquid form
 1207)POISON.TXT     512    01/04/92  A form of NERVER GAS but verry POTENT! Un
 1208)LADMINE.TXT    768    01/04/92  Two recipies in one file.... Fire Bomb (N
 1215)9600BD.TXT     4992   01/12/92  Modify your 2400 baud MODEM for 9600 baud
 1216)SCANMODS.TXT   2688   01/12/92  Modify your scanner
  527)CHEATS.LZH     10183  12/05/90  This is a load of cheats for various game
  743)MMURDER.ZIP    5121   03/10/91  Mass-Murderer Trading Cards...
  994)USR42BIS.LZH   36864  07/28/91  Give your old HST modem the new V42Bis wi
  995)HACK_CIS.ARC   7168   07/28/91  Hack out CIS CompuServe accounts with thi
  999)PAYPHONE.TXT   4096   08/03/91  How to rob payphones.  It works!

[A]rc [B]atch [D]ownload [N]ext [L]ist [P]rev [Q]uit [S]how [T]ype [V]erbose
Scan Cmd > k


Number Filename       Length  U/L'ed   Description

 1012)HEROKDOC.LZH   41480  08/10/91  Full docs to Hero's Keep
 1029)CTBBSLST.AUG   34099  08/22/91  Latest Connecticut BBS list.
 1030)USBBS83.PAK    54784  08/22/91  list of all American BBS's.  August'91.
 1037)HAYESOP.ARJ    10361  08/22/91  Hayes Sysop Pricing.  Similar to USR.
 1048)PYTHON.LZH     42627  08/27/91  Text to many of Pythons skits/scenes.  Hi
 1087)MONEY.DOC      13162  09/12/91  Make $50,000 in less than 6 months!!! All
 1097)ZNET9140.ARC   32384  09/22/91  Z-Net Magazine 9/20/91....Great news and 
 1115)SEXHINT.TXT    94884  10/09/91  Walk through for Spirit of Excalibur
 1222)HACKER.ZIP     30133  01/23/92  Is hacking legal?
 1223)MONEY.TXT      16008  01/23/92  Make money fast with your computer!
 1033)HYPERP.DOC     18907  08/22/91  documentation for HyperP protocol.
 1049)TAGDC25F.ZIP   99492  08/27/91  Docs for TAG 2.5, probably the best BBS s
 1053)EMUDOCS.ARJ    8555   08/27/91  Documentation for Emulex BBS software, go

[A]rc [B]atch [D]ownload [L]ist [P]rev [Q]uit [S]how [T]ype [V]erbose
Scan Cmd > 




Heaven 'N' Hell Files System

Current file directory is DOCS

Files Cmd (?=List)> a


ARCDL.ARC >empty
LZHDL.LZH >empty
ZIPDL.ZIP >empty

ARCTOOLS, Enter type: [A]rc  [L]zh  [Z]ip > a

ARCDL.ARC  [A]dd [C]lear [D]ownload [R]emove > d


Sorry, file not found...

ARCDL.ARC >empty
LZHDL.LZH >empty
ZIPDL.ZIP >empty

ARCTOOLS, Enter type: [A]rc  [L]zh  [Z]ip > a

ARCDL.ARC  [A]dd [C]lear [D]ownload [R]emove > a

Enter filename or number: thehaackr.arc

Sorry, file not found...

ARCDL.ARC  [A]dd [C]lear [D]ownload [R]emove > 85


ARCDL.ARC >empty
LZHDL.LZH >empty
ZIPDL.ZIP >empty

ARCTOOLS, Enter type: [A]rc  [L]zh  [Z]ip > a

ARCDL.ARC  [A]dd [C]lear [D]ownload [R]emove > a

Enter filename or number: 85

<THEHACKR.ARC>

Filename         Size     Comp   %Comp    Date      Time     Method     CRC
------------   -------  -------  -----  --------  --------  --------  --------
THEHACKR.ASC     42753    21528    50%  04-11-90  16:38:20  Crunched    d9cb
------------   -------  -------  -----
Total      1     42753    21528    50%

Enter filename to add to ARCdl.ARC: 1097

Hang on a sec

Sorry, file not found...

ARCDL.ARC  [A]dd [C]lear [D]ownload [R]emove > a

Enter filename or number: 1097

<ZNET9140.ARC>

Filename         Size     Comp   %Comp    Date      Time     Method     CRC
------------   -------  -------  -----  --------  --------  --------  --------
ZNET9140.ASC     59609    32228    46%  09-20-91  21:56:04  Crunched    4560
------------   -------  -------  -----
Total      1     59609    32228    46%

Enter filename to add to ARCdl.ARC: ?

Hang on a sec

Sorry, file not found...

ARCDL.ARC  [A]dd [C]lear [D]ownload [R]emove > d


Sorry, file not found...

ARCDL.ARC >empty
LZHDL.LZH >empty
ZIPDL.ZIP >empty

ARCTOOLS, Enter type: [A]rc  [L]zh  [Z]ip > a

ARCDL.ARC  [A]dd [C]lear [D]ownload [R]emove > a

Enter filename or number: 85

<THEHACKR.ARC>

Filename         Size     Comp   %Comp    Date      Time     Method     CRC
------------   -------  -------  -----  --------  --------  --------  --------
THEHACKR.ASC     42753    21528    50%  04-11-90  16:38:20  Crunched    d9cb
------------   -------  -------  -----
Total      1     42753    21528    50%

Enter filename to add to ARCdl.ARC: q

Hang on a sec

Sorry, file not found...

ARCDL.ARC  [A]dd [C]lear [D]ownload [R]emove > r


ARCDL.ARC >empty
LZHDL.LZH >empty
ZIPDL.ZIP >empty

ARCTOOLS, Enter type: [A]rc  [L]zh  [Z]ip > a

ARCDL.ARC  [A]dd [C]lear [D]ownload [R]emove > a

Enter filename or number: 85

<THEHACKR.ARC>

Filename         Size     Comp   %Comp    Date      Time     Method     CRC
------------   -------  -------  -----  --------  --------  --------  --------
THEHACKR.ASC     42753    21528    50%  04-11-90  16:38:20  Crunched    d9cb
------------   -------  -------  -----
Total      1     42753    21528    50%

Enter filename to add to ARCdl.ARC: 

ARCDL.ARC  [A]dd [C]lear [D]ownload [R]emove > d


Sorry, file not found...

ARCDL.ARC >empty
LZHDL.LZH >empty
ZIPDL.ZIP >empty

ARCTOOLS, Enter type: [A]rc  [L]zh  [Z]ip > a

ARCDL.ARC  [A]dd [C]lear [D]ownload [R]emove > a

Enter filename or number: 85

<THEHACKR.ARC>

Filename         Size     Comp   %Comp    Date      Time     Method     CRC
------------   -------  -------  -----  --------  --------  --------  --------
THEHACKR.ASC     42753    21528    50%  04-11-90  16:38:20  Crunched    d9cb
------------   -------  -------  -----
Total      1     42753    21528    50%

Enter filename to add to ARCdl.ARC: 

ARCDL.ARC  [A]dd [C]lear [D]ownload [R]emove > 


ARCDL.ARC >empty
LZHDL.LZH >empty
ZIPDL.ZIP >empty

ARCTOOLS, Enter type: [A]rc  [L]zh  [Z]ip > ?


Heaven 'N' Hell Files System

Current file directory is DOCS

Files Cmd (?=List)> ?


Heaven 'N' Hell Files System

                     Heaven 'N' Hell's File Transfer Menu

[A]-Archive tools (for downloading files from archive)
[B]-Batch file transfer (transfers marked files in batch)
[C]-Choose directories for listing ALL NEW files
[D]-Download a file
[F]-Find (search) file
[L]-List files (full descriptions)
[M]-Mark a file for batch transfer
[O]-Other file directories
[Q]-Quit to main menu
[S]-Scan files (abbreivated descriptions)
[T]-Toggle continuous scroll of directory listings
[U]-Upload a file
[V]-Verbose listing of an ARC, LZH or ZIP file
[W]-Wide directory listing (filenames and size only)

Note: To download a group of processed files from ARC's, [D]ownload
      filename ARCDL.ARC


6747264 total bytes available for uploading
2067584 bytes maximum upload file length

Current file directory is DOCS

Files Cmd (?=List)> v

Enter ARC/LZH/ZIP filespec: arc

Sorry ARC is not available


Heaven 'N' Hell Files System

Current file directory is DOCS

Files Cmd (?=List)> 