                         T H E   A U T O N O M A T R I X
                           Nascent Manifesto of 930111


                            :: Symbolism & Design ::

The name AutonomatriX is derived from the words autonomy and matrix to
represent a self-directed and self-governing repository of information.  The
emblem of the AutonomatriX is a circular blade with eight teeth providing a
background to the glyph of Eris turned on its side.

The AutonomatriX is a networking chaos magic guild of those striving to
discover and rejuvenate magical ideas and technical skills with success as the
only key to validation. We do not discriminate on the basis of lifestyle,
gender, affiliation, race, or sexuality. We seek to interact with creative
magicians who are pushing boundaries instead of being trapped by them. We are a
guild composed of working craftspeople, whereas an order/lodge/clique is
generally an exclusive membership of supplicants.

The time of centralized info-banks is at an end; the nature of "classified" or

"secret" information is that it is more often limiting than useful to the
collector, and only profitable to the banker of such media.  Hierarchical
structures are unnecessary and undesired; checks and balances regarding
membership are determined by an individual's interaction with the rest of the
group rather than personal prejudices or acceptance for any member by any other
member.  The principles "sink or swim" and "(inter)action equals life" are
applicable to this magical guild, as in any network.

                        :: Access to the AutonomatriX ::

When a candidate has made intentional contact with a member of the AutonomatriX
(called the "AX"), that member sponsors the candidate hirself and provides all
pertinent information about that candidate to another member as soon as is
possible for co-sponsorship. Alternatively, if for any reason the member
chooses not to sponsor the candidate after the initial inquiry, that member
must send the information to two other members, one of whom is the member
nearest to the candidate's geographic locale.  Ideally, the two sponsors would
be geographically separated from one another.  All inquirers will be provided
with the current AX manifesto by any member who accepts sponsorship of that
candidate at the onset of their relationship. The suggested sponsorship period
is three months, at the end of which the co-sponsors mutually decide upon
whether or not initiation should take place.


The sponsored candidate is requested to provide information regarding any
personal magical work done in a journal or magical record.  The candidate may
in turn be given any part of the Corpus Fecundi other than the Contacts Listing
(see below) that the sponsors deem appropriate at any time. Initiation may be
performed by one or both of the sponsors and/or any other members of the AX
with the consent of the sponsors. The candidate must provide a record of a
magical working which has resulted in manifestation of the intent at least two
times, and design a self-initiation ritual.  All initiations must be performed
in person.  At the climax of the initiation, the new member is handed the
current Contacts Listing (on a scroll) and the remainder of the Corpus Fecundi.

                            :: The Corpus Fecundi ::

The Corpus Fecundi comprises a record of research, technical experimentation
and ritual methods that have arisen since the emergence of this guild of Chaos.
The entirety of this information is provided only after a period of sponsorship
resulting in initiation and excludes non-requested information of a political
or genealogical nature.

It is the personal responsibility of each member of the AX to update their copy
of the Corpus Fecundi as new information becomes available.  An active member

of the AX is any person who is on the Contacts Listing. All information for
inclusion into the Corpus Fecundi is transferred throughout the network on at
least a quarterly basis.

The Corpus Fecundi consists of three parts, as follows:

The first part is the "Contacts Listing," which includes all participants in
the AX. All are listed by their appellation (any titles may be chosen), mailing
address, Working Group and/or Project involvement information, and a brief
biography (bio) of personal interests, researches, requests for information on
any topic, etc.  To remain on the Contacts Listing each member is responsible
for making their membership known by interaction with other members. If for any
reason this cannot be done, membership requires that the current AX curators
are notified of continued participation in the network by a work record semi-
annually.

The second part is an "Index" of all works currently making up the Corpus
Fecundi. All members are responsible for ensuring that their copy is complete
via this Index. The author of each item will be listed here, rather than on the
items themselves.

The third part, the "body of works," consists of information in the form of

rituals, essays, memos, magical drawings and/or diagrams, etc. to inform the
network and record its accomplishments and activities. No birth and/or legal
names may be included anywhere in Corpus Fecundi.

                               :: The Curators ::

The issuance of Contacts Listings and Indexes are provided by the AutonomatriX
curators, who ensure that each display the name and emblem of the AX upon them.
Two curators are randomly chosen on June 27th of each year from volunteers to
update and maintain securely the hard-copies and electronic copies of all
material in the Corpus Fecundi. The Corpus Fecundi is maintained in its
entirety in both formats at all times.  Any individual in the network may
assume these responsibilities, although no curator may have successive terms of
office.

                              :: Working Groups ::

Each member of the AX is encouraged to form autonomous Working Groups. All WGs
may be designated by whatever name (Coven, Project, Team, Clan, Temple, Group,
Cabal, Tribe, etc.) deemed appropriate by those directly involved. A Working
Group is composed of at least two active members of the network and as many
non-members as desired by them.


Each Working Group is inaugurated by the generation of its own unique
manifesto, accepted by all participating in that WG. It must be distributed by
the AX members of that group to all on the current Contacts Listing. This
particular manifesto should be made as detailed as possible, to outline the
WG's objectives and intent, protocol, any offices assumed within the WG's
internal structure, and whatever else the WG decides upon.  Accompanying the
manifesto should be each participant's signature (of their chosen appellation),
mailing address, and bio. The AX will in no way interfere in matters of any
Working Group's internal structure or protocol, with the fullest intention
being to keep regulation to a minimum in regards to the network's guild
structure.

Each WG is encouraged to access any form of media available for wider
distribution of ideas and material, and the AX provides encouragement and/or
assistance to members who have material suitable for this purpose.

                                 :: Projects ::

Projects or Operations which include any member of the AX within or without
one's Working Group are to be listed in the Contacts List.  An "Operation" is
usefully described as an extended working for a specific goal carried out by

two or more members of the guild regardless of WG affiliation.

                            :: Main Contact Points ::

It is recommended that each WG and Operation designate a Main Contact Point (or
MCP) elected by the members in that Working Group, for response to inquiries
and distribution of information.  It is the responsibility of the acting MCP of
that group to distribute all information for inclusion into the Corpus Fecundi
of the members in hir Working Group and/or Operation.

                         :: Information Transference ::

Information is distributed throughout the entire active membership of the
network in the issuance of the Contacts Listing and Index of the Corpus Fecundi
by the AX curators. The authors of any item produced and distributed for
inclusion into the Corpus Fecundi are responsible for the distribution of that
information throughout the network. Any item may be marked "Private" by its
author, and this is understood to mean distribution via the Corpus Fecundi only
(not for public consumption). No items intended for the Corpus Fecundi may be
marked with the author's appellation, although it is recommended that each item
is accompanied by a cover letter providing whatever personal data the author or
distributor desires.


                                  :: Voting ::

When voting is required within the AX as a whole, all members must provide a
written response of yes, no, or abstinence.  The votes of each member are then
listed beside their name on the next Contacts Listing.  A measure's success
depends upon at least a two-third's majority of all members of the
AutonomatriX.  All members are encouraged to voice their own opinions at all
times.

                              :: Identification ::

The AX does not employ any single clue to disclose membership in the guild.
However, objects that are easily available are periodically chosen to represent
active participation in the network, such as a certain semiprecious stone or a
color-specific pen for example. At any time, suggestions may be supplied to a
curator for random selection. The identifier is described as briefly as
possible at the top of each Contacts Listing.  Aside from this, each WG and
Operation is encouraged to generate totems and/or fetishes to designate
themselves symbolically within the guild.

                                :: Accessories ::


Each Working Group in the AX chooses what ritual accessories are necessary.
Some may choose specific forms of jewelry or ritual garments as a group. Each
member must possess the current identifier object of the AX in the working area
at the time of any meeting attended.



                       The AutonomatriX may be reached via


                                     E P I C
                              POST OFFICE BOX 1533
                               MORRO BAY CA 93443

                                   or via the
                          PSYBERNET BBS (805)772 AS IF

--------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                   DEFINITIONS


AX (AutonomatriX): Autonom-y and m-atriX. Autonomy means moral and ethical
    independence and self-directed freedom to act. A matrix is something
    within which something else originates or developes. The AX is often
    employed to sever the bonds of tyranny wherever and whenever it rears
    its head.

CHAOS: "is the omnipresent tendency for acausal events to occur randomly,
    and the basic creative impetus of this reality."

PSYBERNET: PSYchedelic and cyBERnetic NETwork.  Psychedelic is derived from
    "psyche", meaning `essence, subconscious, or soul', and "deloun"
    meaning `to show'.  Cybernetics is the science of communication and
    control theory concerned especially with the study of automatic control
    systems (i.e.  nervous system and brain and mechanical-electronic
    communication systems).

AS IF: "In Eckankar chelas are taught that the senses contain all
    manifestation. Imagination, in the field of Maya, if exercised properly
    will create an effect by the chela who acts "as if" it has already
    happened. We have only to recognize that we have already reached God-

    Consciousness." (from The Magician's Dictionary)

EMPIRIC(K)AL: relying on personal experience and sense observation alone,
    often without regard for established dogma, theory, or law.
    Experimental.

PRAGMATIC(K): relating to practical applications, and the search for the
    same. "What does not matter need not be."

IDEALIST('S): belonging to visionaries, idealogues.

COALESCENT: that which is combined.

’THER: the medium and/or the message of non-local information that material
    structures can exchange instantaneously across any distance.


