THE NEW BOOK OF THE LAW
[sources: The Book of The Law, The Old Laws for the Old Religion, The Great 
Book of the Law, The Dragon Law] 
  
Preface: In my years of teaching and running a group, I have always had a 
dissatisfaction with the popular "Book of the Law" available to most Seekers.
I felt it to be too archaic in its wording and perspective -- and while it was
valuable in the Burning Times, it simply does not deal with the concerns and
needs of "modern-day" Witches.  Over the years I became familiar with several
other sets of Laws.  Each of these had many good points, yet they also had
their disadvantages as well. 
  
Recently, I decided to do something daring -- I took the four different
versions of the Laws which I had, and combined and reworked th m.  I deleted
what was no longer pertinent or meaningful, rewording others to make them 
clearer and more understandable, as well as throwing in a few new ones which I
felt had been lacking.
  
I believe that what has evolved out of this work is a set of Laws which are
readable, usable, and most importantly, pertinent to the needs of today's
Witches and Neo-Pagans.  It is with these thoughts and hopes that I would like
to share them with you.  If you should find merit or worth in them, then I
will feel as though I have accomplished something.  The material in this
booklet  has not been copyrighted, so you may reproduce the Laws for students
or  friends, or reprint them in your publication.  It is my sincere hope that
the New Book of the Law will be of use to the Craft Community.

                                    Blessed Be,
                                    Lady Galadriel


PART ONE 
  
1. The Laws were created to give our lives form and order, that all might be 
balanced throughout all of the planes.  In truth there are two sets of laws 
which govern us -- one sets forth the ways of the Wiccan, an dthe oter the
ways  of the Universe.  Both are important, both should be observed with
respect and  treated with honor.  The Laws were shaped and molded to teach us,
to advise us,  and to counsel us in our time of mortal life on earth. 
  
2. Honor the Gods, for They are the channels and the manifestation of the 
Source.  Honor yourself, for this force also lies within you.  Love the Gods
as  They love you, and by loving yourself and your brothers and sisters, so
the  Gods shall honor you. As the love and joy of a man and a woman [or "lover
and beloved" -- LAH]  flowers and grows when nurtured with respect, and
cultivated with understanding  and honor, so should you love the Gods. 

3. The Goddess is the Great Mother, and the God is the Great Father, and we
are  Their children; and we shall worship Them, for They are the rulers of the
Universe, and all that is therein.  Therefore, O Children of the Gods, try
Them  not, nor attempt to test Them, for They shall show you that he Ways of
the  Craft are not to be belittled or mocked. 
  
4. Let the Power of the Craft flow from you only in love -- or not at all.
For  it has always been known that the energy webs which we weave and maintain
shall  eventually return to encircle their creator.  Thus our works become
either the  net which entagles and binds us, or th eweb of light by which we
find the Gods. 
  
5. Let the Rites of the Wicca be a way for the children of the Gods to be as 
One -- for Power only flows when unified.  Always should you revere the Earth,
and heal and tend Her, for She is our life, our Mothership, on which we 
navigate the dark currents of space. 
  
6. When you reap the harvests of your lands, then you shall not reap one
corner  of the field, nor glean the herb gardens, or the fallen fruits of the
orchards.   These you shall offer to the Earth Mother, in direct return, or
through  offerings made to your Circle, or to sustain its Priests and
Priestesses. 

7. Always be proud to be of the Wicca, but do not allow your pride to become 
vanity -- for those who are conceited are a stubling block at the door of the 
Temple, and they shall be cast adrift, to swim within their own vanity. 
 
8. Observe and listen, reserving your judgement, for until all the silver is
weighed, who can know the worth thereof? 
  
9. As like breeds like, even more so does good beget love and joy.  Your life 
will be full of love and joy if you are joyful and happy. 
  
10. Your teachers are the servants of the Gods, and they shall plant the seeds
of knowledge within the minds of their students, and they shall use their
power  for the good of the Wicca.  Yet it is each individual's duty to tend
the seeds  which are planted, and to make the final harvest.  Those who misuse
the power  and the trust of the teacher's position shall have to answer to the
Lords of  Karma, and adjust the balance accordingly. 
  
11. The Temples of the Gods, which are Their abode on Earth, shall belong to 
all Their children, and each Circle shall be as a special family.  Do naught 
against any Temple or any family of the Wicca, lest you do that thing unto the
Gods, and against yourself. 
  
12. You must not be a teller of tales amongst the children of the Goddess, and
you must hold no malice or evil thoughts towards others of the Wicca. 
  
13. You should not lie, nor give false testimony before your Elders, or those 
who are of the Wicca -- for liars are fools, and a menace unto themselves, and
to the Wicca.  Be truthful in all your works and deeds, especially within the
Circle, for what you say within the presence of the Gods becomes manifest. 
  
14. You must not put stumbling blocks in the way of those who do not follow
the  Path of the Wicca.  You must make no unrighteous judgements of their
ways, and  you should aid them with an attitude of love when it is asked for. 
Yet ever  should you keep the Counsel of the Elders, and reveal naught to
others of where  our Circles may be, nor may you reveal our ways without the
consent of the  Priestess. 
  
15. When you make a vow to the Lord or the Lady, or you swear an oath to 
another of the Wicca, then you must do all that has come forth from your
mouth,  for a covenant with the Gods, or with the Wicca, is your Honor, and
woe to  those who care not for the fetters they attach to their souls by not
keeping  their word. 
  
16.  The Great Mother and Father would not have their children suffer the 
indignities of oppressors for their sake, for what is within the hearts of 
Their children is dear and true to Them.  The Ancient and Mighty Ones shall
cause the balance to be made for those who desecrate the Lord and Lady, Their 
temples, or Their creations. 
 
17. Never shall you use Magick, nor the Craft, to cause harm, for this is 
misuse of the Power, and it is not to be condoned.  To cause the death of
another through the Craft is to require the death of the Self in sacrifice.

18. Never betray any of the brethren, nor the lore of our people, for you are
all servants of the Gods, and must live by the virtues of love, honor and 
wisdom.  Let truth, loyalty and honor be your creed.  Let them be your guides,
tempered by love and wisdom. 
  
19. The Order of the Gods shall you keep, and within Their Circles shall you 
walk.  You should not say "I believe" when you doubt, nor claim to obey the 
Lord and Lady's word when you never enter into the Temple.  You must not 
profess with your lips that which is not in your heart. 
  
20. Do not use the names of the Gods in negative or evil ways, for They love 
and cherish Their children above all others.  All others They love, even those
who know them not.  Yet those who hate and curse in Their name shall have the 
Mighty Ones take the measure of their worth. 
  
21. In any disputes between the children of the Goddess, no one may invoke any
laws but those of the Craft, or any tribunal but that of Priestess, Priest,
and  Elders. 
  
22. No one of the Wicca may do anything which will endagner the Craft, nor 
bring any of the Wicca into conflict with the Law of the Land, or with any of 
our persecutors. 
  
23. Your magickal tools are channels to that which is most precious and pure
within you.  Do not cheapen them by haggling their price when you acquire
them. 
  
24. Never accept money for the use of the Power.  It is sorcerors and 
charlatans who accept money for their spells and prayers.  If you accept no 
money, you will be free from the temptation to use the Craft for evil or 
unworthy causes. 
  
25. You shall never take unduly from any human, animal or elemental that which
is not yours to take -- for if you steal from another, in the end you will
have  to sacrifice something dearer to you in order to attain the balance. 
  
26. Show honor to all people, that they may look up to you, and respect you, 
and their eyes shall become a mirror for your soul. 

27. Those who are of the Wicca shall not own slaves, for one person may not
own  the spirit of another, for only the Great Mother and Father own our
souls.  Nor  shall you take as a pledge any person's life, for to do so is to
take upon  yourself both a mill and a millstone. 
  
28. If a stranger sojourns with you, you shall do them no wrong; they shall be
as one of the Circle, born amongst ye, and you shall deal with them as you 
would yourself.

29. Just weights and just balances shall be given by you, and just value shall
you give, and thereby receive threefold.

30. Your altars shall be kept clean, pure and holy, and all that is brought
into the Temple or the Circle shall be cleansed and blessed, for the joy of
the  Gods, and of the Wicca.

31. A clean mind should have a clean body.  You should keep your body, your
clothes, and your house clean, in honor of the Mother, who gives these things 
to you. 
  
32. Let none die without honor, without love, without respect, unless their 
actions have decreed otherwise. 

33. You should not couple together if it shall cause pain, jealousy or 
deprivation to another by doing so.  Union for malice or evil reasons such as 
these upsets the balance, and the Lords of the Universe shall make adjustments
accordingly. 
  
34. Let those who would love, and would be as one, and bear child, be 
handfasted.  For the sharing of love in this manner is beauteous, and love's 
union in the energy of the Gods, and the heritage of the child.  It is 
important for children to know and to identify with those who brought them 
here. 
  
35. The Law of the Goddess is that none of the Wicca shall take and wed
someone  who they do not love, whether it is to harm another, or for some form
of  material gain. 
  
36. Remember that your children are Goddess-spawned, and are free spirits. 
You  do not own nor control them.  They are your brethren, come to visit for a
while, that they may share in the vision of your love and wisdom.  Let each
parent realize that although they may teach and guide with love, the child
shall also teach the parent, and aid them in their growth and lessons.

END OF PART ONE

PART TWO

37. The etheric web and energy vortexes of the earth are in constant flux and
motion to adjust to the needs of the planet.  The sacred trust of the Wicca is
to create and to maintain centers of light and knowledge, using the magick of
the divine spark within us to focus and channel the forces of the Universal
fire.  And these are the channels established between the worlds of the stars
and the realms of the earth, bringing in and regulating the spirit flames
which energize and activate all life forms.  Thus we tend and guard the
threads of creation, and we weave the patterns of life and manifestation in an
ever-evolving tapestry. 

38. Never use your heritage or position for self-glorification or gain.
Respect your magick and our ways.  We must always recognize that while others
may look to us to lead them, they too are our guides.

39. Keep yor body strong, your mind keen, and your purpose pure, for within
your being you shall channel the Power, and it needs to be strong and pure.
And these are the keys to the path of Oneness, and to communication with the
Gods.  Yet first you must learn to speak to Them in such a manner as They can
comprehend you.  For the children of the Wicca must aid the Gods, and work
with Them, otherwise the Gods cannot aid and work with you.  Ever remember
that the Priest and Priestess are the living representatives of the God and
Goddess Forces, and likewise that all humans carry these forces within them,
though they may lie dormant and unawakened.
  
40. As the Great Mother and Father come unto one another and create with the
pure vibration of Love-Wisdom, so should you strive to make your Temple pure
in vibration, and thus a fitting place wherein you may invite the Gods.  Thus,
your Circle should always be duly purified and cast, and likewise, those who
would use the gateways and travel the Circle between the earth and other
realms should also be duly prepared and purified. 
  
41. The Goddess hath said, "I shall not carry thee, yet neither shall I hinder
thee, nor keep thee from having the same opportunities as all of my children.
Thou art free, yet thou shalt not be coddled like babes in the storm.  If thou
hast true devotion within thee, then all obstacles may be overcome."

42. The laggard is but half a person -- and though half is better than none,
the whole is twice as good as the half.  Those who do not work, or who lack
the will and desire to learn the ways of the Gods, unto them is said, "The
Ancient and Mighty Ones shall not keep thee within their house, if ye learneth
not."

43. A sanctuary you shall make unto the Gods, that They may dwell amongst you.
And you shall fashion it to the best of your ability, according to all tha
your Elders shall show you, and pure energy shall you place therein.

44. An altar shall you make to unto the Lady, and you shall make due reverence
unto Her, for every place where She is exalted, She will come to you and bless
you.  And you shall fashion your altar out of wood or stone, and burn incense
and candles thereon, at the proper times, in observance of her ways.

45. You should set aside at least one day during each moon unto the Goddess,
and on these days you shall do Her work; and on those days She shall renew Her
children and bless them. 
  
46. Learn to build your own Temple, and to craft your own sacred Circle, and
all the tools that are used therein -- for to be a person of the Craft is to
be a person of consequence. 
  
47. Let each of you inscribe your own record of our wa s and teachings.  For
the course of each Wiccan should be charted, that the patterns of their
life-web may be made known and utilized.  Let each Wiccan start their Book of
Light with the teachings and lore of their tradition, yet let it also contain
the rites and ways of each individual, which are the harvest of each child of
the Wicca, to use the wisdom of their heritage as the seeds of their own
wisdom.  Thus shall our lore and knowledge continue to grow and unfold, like a
beautiful flower.
  
48. It is right to study and to understand the sigils, statues and stories of
the Gods, for they shall guide your thoughts to Them, and They shall hear
them.  Yet you must ever remember that you worship not the sign nor the
statue, but the Gods which inspired them. 
  
49. If your Circle owns any land, let all guard it, and help to keep it clean.
Let all justly guard all monies of the Circle, as well as the rights and
property of all members of the Circle. 
  
50. If any Wiccan truly labors, then it is right that they should have their
just pay.  This is not considered the taking of money for the Art, but good
and honest work.  Yet if any Wiccan works willingly for the good of the Craft,
or for their brothers and sisters without pay, then it is to their greatest
honor. 
  
51. If any Wiccan should deny themselves some pleasure or material indulgence
in order to do service in the Circle, this person shall be blessed and
remembered.  For those who give for the greater good of all shall have their
spirit uplifted. 
  
52. Know also that if you gift the Lady's Priests and Priestesses, or Her
Circles, this is an offering made unto the Mother Herself, for a true Priest
or Priestess strives always to do Her work, and to be of service to Her
children, so to honor and respect them is to honor and respect the Queen of
All. 
  
53. And the offerings which are considered the most pleasing to the Gods are
these: 
     the fruits of the orchards 
     the scents of the trees and herbs
     the metals of the earth 
     the waters of the earth 
     the flowers of the meadows 
     and the milk of all mothers. 
Yet offerings of labor or money are honest too, and these will also be
accepted 
-- moreso if you work with love in your heart, for always there is work to be 
done for the Gods, and service to be given to the children of the Wicca. 

54. If your offerings are made to restore the balance, it must by of a nature
that it not offensive to the Gods.  It must be of value, yet given with a free
heart.  Thus shall the harmony be restored.  If your offerings are given with
a heart filled with love and devotion, or are of service to the Gods, or to
the Craft, then shall you receive blessings manifold.

55. And when you make an offering unto the Gods, you should offer it thru the
most proper medium, at the proper times, and in such a manner as to make it
acceptable.  Any and all remains of the rituals shall be consumed in the fire,
or buried within the Earth, as a way of returning to the Source all that we
use in the observance of our ways, thus ensuring the continuity of the cycle. 
  
56. All may use the Craft to help and aid them, or for the advantage of their
Circle, or the Craft -- yet only if you are sure that you harm none.  Let each
Wiccan and Circle always debate these matters at length.  Only if all be
satisfied that none be harmed in any way, may the Art then be used.  If it is
not possible to achieve your ends one way, then perhaps the goal may be
achieved by actng in a different way, so as to harm none. 
  
57. Throughout the world it has been many a year since Wiccans have been
burned.  Yet misuse of the Power might raise the persecutions once again.  So
never break the Laws, however much you might be tempted, and never consent to
their being broken.  And if you know they are being broken, then you must work
strongly against it.

58. In days of old it was decided by the Mighty Ones who came before us that
the Art might be used to restrain others from harming the Craft or its
children, yet only after great consultation with all members of the Circle,
and only then to deflect or to constrain them.

59. And such were the ways of the Lady that She brought us forth in joy, and
such were the Ways of the Lord that His reign gave all life pleasure.  Offer
love in your worship and all shall be joyous in beauty.

END OF PART TWO


PART THREE 
  
60. In the dimly remembered dawn of ages past, the Wicca were truly free.
Then, in Atlantis came the Age of the Misuse of Power, followed by the Ages of
Persecution and Suffering.  Thus the people of the Wicca hid themselves and
cloaked their knowlege, and wove veils of secrecy and silence.  And this is
how the Ways of the Wicca have been preserved through the time of darkness. 
Yet much of the ways of our people were lost to the ignorance of others. 
  
61. Yet the cycle spirals ever on -- and the Age of the Earth Mother once
again draws nigh.  We must be strong -- one with our birthright, and one with
our Gods, if we are to bring forth the balance.  Those who would harm us, or
attempt to enslave us, we must overcome -- yet only through light and love,
and never through violence or the evil of chaos.  And through our efforts the
time of our people will come into being once more.  In the times which lie
ahead, there lies much work to be done, so that oncemore the cycles of life
are drawn to the path of light, and the balance acheived through the power of
love. 
  
62. In order to bring the ways of Light and Love and Life to the peoples of
the Earth, our secrets are slowly becoming secrets no more, and it is good
that this is so -- for the age of shadow and secrecy is passing.  Yet the
sharing of our ways needs always to be guided by wisdom and by love.  Let our
rites and our mysteries be kept sacred.  Let no one defile our worship or our
heritage.  For the defilement of our ways is an honor loss to self, and for
the Craft. 
  
63. Let each High Priestess govern her Circle with justice and Love, and with
the help and advice of the Elders and the High Priest, always heeding the
messages of the Gods when they come. 
  
64. Ever remember that although the Priest is the force with which the Circle
is built, the Priestess is the ruler therein -- for it is through her that the
Goddess created the world, and all things therein. 
  
65. The High Priestess will heed all complaints of all Pagans and Wiccans, and
strive to settle any differences between them with reason and with justice. 

66. Let each Circle of Light decide how it shall be known -- whether by
earthly name or magickal one.  For each child of the Wicca knows best the
safety or dangers of their homeland. 
  
67. Let each Circle or Temple maintain and dedicate unto the Goddess and the
God all the things that are required for Their rituals, for what is blessed in
the name of the Gods rightly belongs to Them, and the Priest and Priestess
shall be the caretakers thereof.

68. Anyone of the circle who is of sufficient rank, and wishes to form a new
Circle, shall tell the High Priestess and the Elders of their intentions.
Members of the old Circle may join the new Circle when it is formed, but if
they do so they must leave the other Circle, unless otherwise instructed.  For
it is the Old Law that each Wiccan may join the Circle of their choice, yet
their energy should not be divided between two or more Temples. 
  
69. The Elders of the old and new Circles shall meet in peace and with
respect, to decide the level of interaction and connection between the
Circles.  Yet it is known that the splitting of a Circle often means strife. 
So only if it is truly in a spirit of peace and harmony should the Circles
meet for the celebration of the Great Festivals. 
  
70. None shall enter the Circle that have a sickness or an ailment which may
be passed on to the Lady's other children -- for to do so causes harm to
yourself, as well as to the others of the Circle.  Rather should the Healers
go unto the sick one, that through the love of the Gods they shall be made
well and whole once more. 
  
71. It has been judged lawful that if any of the Craft need a house, or land,
and none will sell, to incline someone's mind so as to be willing to sell,
providing it harms none and the full price is paid without haggling. 
  
72. In the matter of quarrels or disputes between the members of the Circle,
the High Priestess shall convene the Council, and inquire into the matter. 
The Council shall hear each person privately, and then both together.  And
they shall decide justly, not favoring one side nor the other. 

73. If an agreeable resolution cannot be reached, then that Wiccan must leave
the Circle, for a Circle of Light cannot be properly formed where there is
disagreement and discord.  And when a Circle is not properly formed, the
energy within is either dissipated, or turns ugly, festering like a hidden
sore.  So let them leave, but only with love in their hearts and yours, for
even though your paths may diverge, you are still all children of the Wicca,
and there must be no violence between us.  Bear no grudges, hold no thoughts
of vengeance, for this will rot away the foundation of your power. 

74. It has ever been recognized that there are some people who can never agree
to work under any others.  At the same time there are also people who cannot
rule justly.  To those who must ever be chief there is but one answer: "Void
this Circle, and seek another one, or if ye be of sufficient rank, then form a
Circle of your own."  To those who cannot rule justly, the answer shall be 
"Those who cannot bear your rule will leave you."  For none may come to Circle

with those with whom they are at variance, for to do so angers the Gods, and
hinders the Craft. 

75. Those that do wrong without knowlege shall be held innocent; those that do
wrong through carelessness shall be judged lacking in wisdom, and dealt with
according to the nature of the transgression.  Those who do wrong with
deliberation and forethought shall be thrice punished, and the Lords of Karma
shall lay low their pride. 
  
76. Each person must make a balance for their words and actions, and the
judgements of the Elders should incline to try to make good come from the
injustice or wrong-doing.  Many are the ways to restore the balance, so let
the judgements of the Elders and the Priestess be in keeping with this. 
  
77. Do not turn aside those who seek the ways of the Wicca for the want of an
offering or the lack of a robe.  You are the servants of the Gods, and the
servants of Their people, and those that seek for the Gods you must aid in
their quest. 
  
78. Of those who would inquire as to the ways of the Goddess, or who wish to
become of the Wicca, ye shall search their hearts, and even into their spirits
you shall look, as you are able.  For the Wicca do not look to acquire mere
numbers.  Let none be turned away if their hearts are true, and their desire
earnest. 
  
79. The hidden children are like the strings of a harp: each one may give a
clear note, and when gathered together in sympathy and accord, they shall give
rise to a beautiful symphony.  Yet when struck without reason or thought,
these notes may cause discord or disharmony.  Therefore the Gods decree to
Their Teachers and Priests that all must be taught to master their harp, and
to pluck their strings with care, that they cause no discord or imbalance. 
  
80. Choose the Priests and Teachers of the Wicca with diligence and with care.
The qualities that you should search for within them are Faith, Belief,
Knowledge, Ability, Patience, Leadership, Humility, and a loving nature -- for
they must lead and teach the children of the Goddess, and will thereby have
the power to do great good, or to cause great imbalance. 
  
81. In practice it should be that the greatest of the Priests and Priestesses
should guide the rituals within each of the Temples of the Old Gods, and truly
you should be content with the advice and guidance given by them.  Yet ever it
should be given so that it is clear and understandable, for within the Temple
each of the Wicca is free, and thus they should be able to recognize and to
understand our ways and their implications.  And those who cannot explain the
inner workings, or give just cause and reason for their decisions, may be
questioned, or the wisdom of the advice weighed. 
 
82. Let the Priestess and Priest lead as long as they are able, and their
leadership be wise and strong, and to the benefit of the Wicca.  Yet if their
health is ill-favored, or if the next generation needs to try their hand, then
let them have the vision and the wisdom to step away from their position, and
pass the duties of the Circle to another.  Let them not become overly attached
to the office, nor too fond of the power.
 
83. If a Priestess or a Priest should tire of their duties and charges, then
they may step down, but only after having trained and acknowledged a
successor.  If a Priest
or Priestess deserts their Circle, then they have lost the right to ever lead
again within this life, so great a trust they have broken.  If they should
return to the Circle within one turn of the Wheel, and are judged to have true
atonement in their hearts, new insight and growth, then they may be forgiven,
and allowed to return to the Circle, yet they shall worship only, and hold no
office  r title.  Leadership is a sacred commitment and an honor, and they
have shown that they cannot be trusted with such responsibility.

84. Any Priestess, Priest, or Elder who consents to a breach of the Laws
regarding the use of the Craft to cause harm to others must immediately be
relieved of their office, for it is the lives of the children of the Goddess
which they endanger, as well as the honor of the Craft.

85. The High Priestess may take a Sabbatical from her Circle, if her personal
life and duties require it, for up to a year and a day.  During that time, the
Maiden shall act as High Priestess.  If the High Priestess does not return at
the end of a year and a day, then the Initiates of the Circle shall name a new
Priestess.  Unless there is good reason to the contrary, the person who has
done the work of the Priestess should reap the reward.  If someone else is
named, then the Maiden should continue in that office. 
  
86. Each Priestess and Priest shall choose their own consorts, yet let them be
wise in the learning of our people, and thus others shall abide by the wisdom
of their choice.  Yet if the Circle feels the decision is ill-advised, or that
they cannot abide and work in honor and trust with that consort, then they may
request a gathering of all concernted to meet and to talk, and to resolve the
balance with love and honor.  For only those who are pure and strong, keen and
wise, patient and loving, can effectively and properly carry out the duties of
a Keeper of the Circle.

87. Those of the Priesthood shall not neglect their mates, or their children,
or their house, nor anything which is in their possession; nor shall the sick
and the needy be neglected for the sake of the Circle.  Therefore let them
adjust the one thing against the other, that neither should suffer, and that
which is given by the Gods is treated with love and respect. 
  
88. Long ago, at the time of Creation, it was deemed that the female should
hold the power of life-giving.  And such was the male force drawn to the love
and beauty of the Creation of life, that he surrenders unto her keeping the
force of his powers in the furtherance of life.  Yet the Priestess must always
remember that the fuel of the flames which light the fires within her Temple
comes from the Priest.  Thus she must use the force wisely, and only with
love, and she must honor and respect he who is the
 activator of the Life Force. 
  
HERE ENDS THE NEW BOOK OF THE LAW. 
  
Published by: The Grove of the Unicorn PO Box 13384 Atlanta, GA  30324 
  
Ordering Information: Send Legal size SASE A small contribution towards
printing/handling costs will be appreciated.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
