


                         Celtic Dieties

     Here is a list of celtic dieties, I'm sure most of you have 
     these but if you do not, here is a short list. 

     Nuada: The gaelic Zeus;called "he of silver hand";killed by the 
     Fomor, Balor early in history of the gods.

     Camulus: Of the invincible sword; the name signifies 
     "heaven";god of war and sky; akin to mars, only more savage.

     The war Goddess: Fea, the hateful; Nemon, the venomous; 
     Badb. the fury; Macha, the battle goddess who collects the 
     heads of her victems for her "acorn crop."

     Morrigan (Morrigu): The great goddess in her Virago aspect; 
     as chief deity of battle, she likes to take the form of the 
     hoodie or carrion crow; her name derives from Mor Righ Anu, 
     meaning "the great queen."

     Dagda: God of earth; "good god"; he posses a living harp and 
     the "undry," a cauldron, where everyone find sustenance in 
     proportion to his/her merits; a formidable fighter, but a 
     god of simple tastes who dresses in a brown tunic, hooded 
     cape and leather boots.

     Boann: The Dadga's wife; an Eve figure; The Boyne River is 
     named for her; she and the Dagda have many famous children 
     including Bridgit, Angus, Mider, Ogma, and Bodb the Red.

     Brigit: Goddess of the hearth, fire and poetry; best loved 
     of all deities; candlemas is held in her honor; she is the 
     only goddess to survive into the Christian pantheon of 
     saints.

     Angus (Angus Mac Oc): His name means "son of the young"; A 
     Gaelic Eros known for his physical beauty and golden hair; 
     his kisses become birds.

     Mider: God of the underworld; his abode is Falga, the Isle 
     of Man; Etain (Ogma's daughter) became his wife, but she was 
     taken away by Angus.

     Ogma (Cermait): The "honey-mouthed" king of the bards and 
     god of eloquence and literature; Ogham script is named for 
     him; he married Etain, daughter of Diancecht.
          
          Bodb the Red: He succeeds his father as king of the 
          gods.
          
          Ler: The gaelic Poseidon; married to Aebh, Bodb's 
          daughter, with whom he has four childrenl after she 
          dies he marries Aeife, who out of jealousy turns the 
          children into swans.

     Manannan: Ler's son; "God of the headlands"; patron of 
     sailors and merchants; his famed possessions include the 
     yellow shaft, the red javelin, the boat, the wave-sweeper, a 
     horse called Splendid Mane, and three swords named retaliator, 
     great fury, and little fury; he has the gift of in 
     exhaustable life.

     Goibniu: The forger of weapons; the Gaelic Hephaestus; he 
     posesses a potion that enables those who drink it to become 
     invisable; he also is called the "devine architect."

     Diancecht: God of medicine; he once saved Ireland; married 
     to Morrigan; among their children are Etan, who marries 
     Ogma, and Cian, who marries Ethniu, daughter of Balor, the 
     Fomor.

     Lugh: Son of Cian and Ethniu called the "long-handed" or 
     "far-shooter"; Sun god par excellence; he possesses a magic 
     spear and magic hound; The Milky Way is called "Lugh's 
     Chain"; he is the "master of all art," an accomplished 
     carpenter, smith, warrior, harpist, poet, physician, cup-
     bearer, and bronze-worker.

          The opponents of Tuatha de Dannan are the children of 
          Domnu, which signifies "under-sea."  Offsptring of 
          "Chaos and Old Night" they are, for the most part 
          grotesque creatures, often with physical deformities.  
          These gods of death and darkness are listed below.

     Balor: Although he was born with two good eyes, one was 
     ruined in an accident; the eye is so hideous that he only 
     opens it in battle so that its venom will slay whoever is 
     unlucky enough to catch glimpse of it; his daughter marries 
     Cian.

     Elathan: The beautiful Miltonic prince of darkness with 
     golden hair.

     Bress: His name means "beautiful"; Elthan's son; married to 
     Brigit of the Tuatha de Dannan and for a time her rules over 
     that kingdom.

          Idech: King of Dommu.



