                               CRYSTALS & STONES



       Gemstones have been used for centuries as meditational aids and magical
  magical foci.  Each individual type of stone has different properties.  Here
  are some healing and spiritual properties from a list I have.  These
  descrioptions are based on ancient legend and lore:



             AGATE: Moss Agates considered to be most powerful.  Aid in
                    restoration of energy, used in healing, and believed to
                    wearer happiness, wealth, health, and long life.  Increases
                    ability to ward off self-induced anger and inner
                    bitterness.  Carnelian-gives protection and energy.  Moss
                    green-balances emotional energy.  Moss red-balances
                    physical energy.  Blue lace-gives tranquility.

             Amber: Powerful healing stone with large amount of organic energy.
                    In ancient times, ground to a powder and mixed with honey
                    or oil of roses for various physical problems.  Filters
                    germs and infections and has the power to disinfect.  Worn
                    around the neck to help fight infection and respiratory
                    diseases.  Lifts the spirits.

           Apatite: Promotes communication and mental clarity.

          Amethyst: Increases spiritual awareness, has a calming and soothing
                    influence, has the ability to transmute negative into
                    positive, and is very effective as a healing stone.
                    Warmed and placed on the forehead and temples, it is good
                    for headaches.  Has the ability to draw through it forces
                    directed towards the body and repels vibrations which the
                    body doesn't need, thus releasing only the energy patterns
                    beneficial to the body.  Best worn in healing near the
                    heart center.  Opens up spiritual and psychic centers.
                    Helps prevent drunkeness.

        Aquamarine: Calms nervous tension.  Calming effects of the sea.  Used
                    to help banish fears and phobias.  Means seawater.
                    Soothing and cleansing.

       Adventurine: Increases perception and creative insight.  Stimulates
                    opportunity and motivation.

           Azurite: Powerful healing stone, invokes spiritual guidance, opens
                    psychic eye.  Good for dreams and improving psychic
                    ability.

        Bloodstone: Stimulates flow of energy for healing blood circulation,
                    stops hemorrhaging.  Removes emotional blockages.

           Citrine: Stimulates openness and accelerates the awakening of the
                    mind.  An aid to the digestive system.  Helps eliminate
                    toxins.  Encourages tremendous healing on the emotional
                    and mental levels, helps unblock subconscious fears, and
                    serves as a natural relaxant.

             Coral: Balances physical energy and relaxes tensions.  Carries the
                    creative vibrations of the sea.

           Emerald: Promotes creativity, stimulates perception and insight, and
                    strengthen memory.  Beneficial effect on the eyes.

            Garnet: Balances hormones, good for mental depression, enhances
                    self-esteem, alleviates bad dreams, and encourages success
                    in business.  Thought to assist in seeing into past
                    incarnations.

          Hematite: Calming to the emotions.  Worn as an amulet to confer
                    strength and procur favorable legal judgements.  In Egypt,
                    used to reduce inflammation and treat hysteria.  Considered
                    to be a grounding stone.  Helps maintain balance between
                    body, mind, and spirit.

             Ivory: Spiritual protection.

              Jade: Stimulates practicality, wisdom, and universal attunement.
                    Thought to provide a link between the spiritual and the
                    mundane.  Most revered by the Chinese.

            Jasper: For energy balancing of emotions and stress.

          Flourite: Opens and softens the way for the use of other stones.
                    Excellent used in aquariums-provides needed minerals.

      Lapis Lazuli: Stimulates wisdom, truthfulness, & psychic experiences,
                    healing and strengthening when worn next to the skin.
                    Strengthens mind and body to spiritual awareness.

         Malachite: often used as a child's talisman to sleep soundly & protect
                    from bad dreams.  Stimulates clear vision and insight,
                    represents hope and inner peace, believed to protect from
                    danger.  Increases abundance in all areas of life.

         Moonstone: Brings good fortune.  Reflects the wearers being and
                    feelings.  Promotes unselfishness.  Opens the heart to
                    humanitarian love and hope.  Good for protection while
                    travelling on water.  Gives clarity to spiritual
                    understanding.  Good for pre-menstrual symptoms and
                    balancing to the reproductive system.  Used to ease
                    childbirth.

             Pearl: Stimulates feminine qualities, used to focus attention,
                    helps pull together mental and spiritual forces, peace of
                    mind.  Represents purity, modesty, & gentleness.

           Peridot: Dispels fears, guilt, and depression.  Used to counteract
                    negative emotions and healing of the spirit.  Affects top
                    three chakras.  Once worn as a means of gaining foresight
                    and divine inspiration.

            QUARTZ: Amplifies the healing energy of the one using it.  Used to
                    help draw out pain.  Able to tap into the energies of the
                    universe.  A good stone for meditating on.  Works primarily
                    with the Third Eye center, also relates well with the heart
                    center.  To be able to tune into the quartz promotes
                    clarity while concentrating on it.  Also affects the crown
                    chakra.  Very potent and often worn to protect from
                    negative vibrations.  Cleanse regularly.  Rudilated-rutile
                    needles help focus attention.  Smoky-good for calming the
                    mind.  Rose-vibrations of universal love & inner serenity.

              Ruby: Increases vigor, renews vitality and cleanses the blood.
                    The stone of courage.

             Topaz: Calms emotions, protects against external stresors.  To
                    restore physical energy & quiet emotional nature.

         Tiger Eye: Very powerful protection, clarity of thought.

        Tourmaline: Causes the wearer to be more flexible, more understanding
                    and more objective in purpose and reason.  Calming.  Each
                    person has a different response to this stone.  Causes a
                    reaction in the intestinal tract.  Black and
                    Crystal-removes negativity and cleanses.  Some say it
                    should not be worn as jewelry.  Electric and magnetic
                    properties.

         Turquoise: Vibrates calming radiations, protective, and restores
                    healthy mental attitude.  Stone of friendsship.  Balancing
                    and healing.  Great strength and vitality.  Takes on
                    characteristics of the wearer.


ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ
If anyone asks, you didn't leech this file from...

         E  X  T  R  E  M  E
      ------------+------------      ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                 /|\                  ³                                 ³
                / | \                 ³   Portland Metro All Text BBS   ³
               /  |  \                ³                                 ³
              /   |   \               ³       14400: 503.775.0374       ³
             /    |    \              ³         SysOp: Thing One        ³
            /     |     \             ³                                 ³
           /      |      \           ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
            d r e a m e s

