  AMERICAN FAMILY FOUNDATION (Cults)  (AFF)
  P.O. Box 336, Weston, MA 02193
  (617) 893-0930
  Guy Ford, V.Pres.-Operations
  Budget:   $130,000.  Educational  organization  "seeking  to  understand  and
ameliorate  the  problems caused to individuals, families, and society at large
by  people and groups that employ unethical forms of social influence." Reports
on  legal,  medical,  psychological,  and  social  issues  raised  by  cultism.
Publications:  (1)  Cult  Observer (news magazine), monthly; (2) Cultic Studies
Journal, semiannual; also publishes special reports and catalog.
  Section Heading Codes: Public Affairs Organizations (09)

  BEREAVEMENT CENTER (Children)  (BC)
  Westchester  Jewish  Community  Services, 141 N. Central Ave., Hartsdale, NY
10530
  (914) 949-6761
  Oscar Rabinowitz, Exec.Dir.
  Founded: 1979. Staff: 3. Children and adolescents between the ages of ten and
18  who have recently lost a parent. Aims are to: facilitate the normal process
of  mourning  in  children  and  adolescents; provide an arena of self-help and
support  to members who often feel alone in dealing with the death of a parent.
The  program  is  an  offshoot  of the Young Widows and Widowers of Westchester
Jewish  Community  Services  in  New  York.  Children  meet  weekly  to discuss
problems;  parents  meet  concurrently,  but  separately, in an adjoining room.
Children  discuss  recollections  of the death itself, the funeral, feelings of
guilt  and  sadness, the family's often altered financial status, remarriage of
the  surviving  parent  and  acquisition  of  new  siblings,  and health of the
remaining  parent.  Conducts  training  program  for professionals and agencies
interested  in  starting  similar  programs  for bereaved children. Also offers
support  groups  for  widows  and  widowers, families of victims of Alzheimer's
disease,  for  those  who  have  a  child  in  a  cult,  and  for children with
life-threatening  illnesses. Center currently operates on a local level but may
expand in the future. Publications: Widow/Widowers of Westchester (newsletter),
monthly. Formerly: (1983) Bereaved Children's Program.
  Section Heading Codes: Social Welfare Organizations (07)

  CHRISTIAN FAMILY RENEWAL  (CFR)
  Box 73, Clovis, CA 93613
  (209) 297-7818
  Dr. Murray Norris, Pres.
  Founded:  1970.  Members:  200,000.  Staff:  11.  Christians  concerned  with
problems  of  the  modern  family.  Promotes Christian solutions to problems in
business,  politics,  and education counseling. Sponsors home study programs in
Christian  counseling  and  nutrition.  Has  established  the  Valley Christian
University, which attempts to teach Christian answers to contemporary problems.
Holds annual seminar and offers university courses on and off campus. Maintains
library  of  6000  volumes.  Computerized Services: Information service listing
local    agencies    and   individuals   who   will   help   with   counseling.
Telecommunications  Services:  National Pregnancy Hot Line for young women with
pregnancy  problems. Divisions: African Emergency Relief; Demonstration School;
National  Pregnancy Hot Line; Valley Christian University. Publications: (1) Up
With   Families   (newsletter),  quarterly;  (2)  Valley  Christian  University
Newsletter,  quarterly; (3) Hot Line Directory, periodic; also publishes books,
and pamphlets on pornography, homosexuality, satanism, and abortion. Affiliated
With: American Life Lobby.
  Section Heading Codes: Religious Organizations (11)

  CHRISTIAN LITERATURE AND BIBLE CENTER (Mission)  (CLBC)
  1006 Oak Cliff Dr., Toccoa, GA 30577
  (404) 886-7734
  Rev. Andrew J. Losier, Founder & Pres.
  Founded:  1952.  Budget:  $25,000. Directors: 7. Missionaries: 7. Distributes
free  Christian  literature in over 50 languages; conducts Bible correspondence
courses  using  audio  cassette  recordings.  Operates  Faith Bible College and
Seminary  in  Nigeria.  Sponsors  direct  missionary work in Africa and nations
worldwide.   Conducts  research  and  educational  programs  and  youth  camps.
Maintains  library  of  7000  master  tapes and cassettes. Publishes Kingdom of
Righteousness  Under  God,  Know Your Bible Rightly Divided, Memoirs of Africa,
One  World  Government  Under Satan, Bible lessons, booklets, and a textbook on
biblical   survey   (in  English).  Computerized  Services:  Personal  computer
publications. Convention/Meeting: semiannual mission conference.
  Section Heading Codes: Religious Organizations (11)

  CHRISTIAN RESEARCH  (CR)
  P.O. Box 385, Eureka Springs, AR 72632
  (501) 253-7185
  Gerda Koch, Dir.
  Founded: 1958. Staff: 1. Nonmembership. Works to serve those who do not trust
the  media  or  the  U.S.  educational  system,  both of which the organization
believes  are  "controlled." Distributes Christian literature; produces tracts;
conducts  and  encourages Bible research and study. Emphasizes obedience to God
and  His  Word;  upholds  the  Constitution  as  it  was originally written but
advocates  subjugation  to  God's  law,  not man's, if the two should conflict.
Opposes  Zionism,  Communism, income taxation, and the United Nations; supports
historical  revisionism regarding the Holocaust. Maintains library of 900 books
and  booklets;  bestows awards. Publications: Facts for Action, semiannual; has
published  Satan  Dispelled  and For More Light (books). Formerly: Pro-American
Books.
  Section Heading Codes: Religious Organizations (11)

  CHRISTIAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE  (CRI)
  Box 500, San Juan Capistrano, CA 92693
  (714) 855-9926
  Dr. Walter Martin, Pres.
  Founded:  1960.  Staff:  33. Christian scholars, ministers, missionaries, and
laymen  working  in  the United States, Canada, and Brazil. Through information
relayed  by  member  researchers,  strives  to  counteract  what  the institute
perceives  to  be threats against the Christian faith. Disseminates information
on  secular  and  theological  trends.  Plans to implement Project Retrieval in
order  to  provide  Christian  schools  with Christian alternatives to secular,
cultic, and occultic beliefs through the aid of computers and microfilm. Offers
seminars.  Maintains  4000 volume library of materials on Christian apologetics
and  history,  cults, the occult, philosophy, and psychology. Publications: (1)
the Insider (newsletter), monthly; (2) Forward (magazine), 3/year.
  Section Heading Codes: Religious Organizations (11)

  CULT AWARENESS NETWORK (Cults)  (CAN)
  P.O. Box 608370, Chicago, IL 60626
  (312) 267-7777
  Reginald M. Aley, Exec.Dir.
  Founded:   1974.   Members:  10,000.  Budget:  $100,000.  Local  Groups:  54.
Educational organization of volunteers interested in freedom from mind control.
Offers  information  and  counsel to persons concerned about destructive cults.
Seeks to understand tactics of mind control in order to provide protection from
those  persons  who  take advantage of people through mind control and coercive
persuasion.  Opposes  deceptive  recruitment, fraudulent solicitation of funds,
illegal  immigration, child abuse and neglect, trafficking in drugs, smuggling,
and  using  unpaid  or  lowly  paid labor working long hours to staff lucrative
businesses.  Serves  as  a  national referral network for concerned families to
religious,  legal,  and  medical  sources.  Conducts  educational  programs and
seminars;  participates  in  radio  and  television  programs; sponsors support
groups for former cult members; offers audiovisual aids. Sponsors workshops for
rehabilitative  counseling  to  persons  in  the  mental health field. Provides
speakers;  maintains  data bases; bestows awards; compiles statistics. Operates
library of ten-year history of media clippings and books dealing with anti-cult
literature.  Publications:  News,  monthly.  Formerly:  (1986) Citizens Freedom
Foundation.  Convention/Meeting:  annual  conference,  with  seminars - usually
October. 1987 Oct. 31-Nov. 2, Kansas City, MO; 1988 Oct. 30-Nov. 1, Pittsburgh,
PA.
  Section Heading Codes: Religious Organizations (11)

  FOCUS (Cults)  (AFF)
  c/o Steven Hassan, P.O. Box 686, New Town Branch, Boston, MA 02258
  (617) 964-6977
  Steven Hassan, Coordinator
  Founded:  1979.  Members:  375.  Former  members  of  destructive cult groups
including  such  organizations  as  Moon's  Unification organization, Church of
Scientology,  the  Way International, Hare Khrishna, and Rajneesh. Purposes are
to  collect  and disseminate information about destructive cults; give personal
support  to: those still "trapped" in a cult and looking for a way out, as well
as  to those thinking about joining; provide counseling and personal support to
"victimized"  families  and  individuals;  educate the public on the dangers of
mind-control  technology.  Holds  seminars  on  mind-control  cults;  initiates
federal  government  investigations;  conducts  monthly  discussion  groups  in
several   major  U.S.  cities;  compiles  and  distributes  kits  of  essential
information   on  cults  to  interested  persons.  Hopes  to  establish  formal
rehabilitation  facilities  and  to  initiate lawsuits. Maintains collection of
documents  and  news clippings. Publications: Newsletter, irregular. Affiliated
With:  Citizens  Freedom  Foundation. Formerly: (1980) Ex-Members Against Moon;
(1984) Ex-Moon. Convention/Meeting: annual.
  Section Heading Codes: Public Affairs Organizations (09)

  INDIVIDUAL FREEDOM FEDERATION (Cults)  (IFF)
  P.O. Box 392, Lathrup Village, MI 48076
  (517) 738-7496
  Edward M. Mielock, Pres.
  Founded:  1975.  Members:  5300.  Staff:  2. Regional Groups: 60. Individuals
united to aid what the federation regards as victims of "destructive" cults and
to  provide support to victims' friends and families. (According to IFF, a cult
is destructive when it uses mind control and psychological coercion to gain and
hold  converts.) Conducts educational campaign stressing the nature and dangers
of  "destructive"  cults;  teaches  ways  to  prevent conversion of susceptible
individuals.  Maintains  library;  bestows  awards;  operates speakers' bureau.
Computerized  Services:  List  of  destructive  cults; bibliography of books on
destructive  cults.  Affiliated  With:  Citizens  Freedom  Foundation (parent).
Formerly:  (1979)  Individual  Freedom Foundation. Convention/Meeting: annual -
always October.
  Section Heading Codes: Religious Organizations (11)

  JEWS FOR JEWS (Jewish)  (JJ)
  P.O. Box 6194, Surfside, FL 33154
  (305) 931-0001
  Rabbi Rubin R. Dobin, Chm.
  Founded: 1970. Members: 10,000. Budget: $25,000. Jewish individuals united to
fight the conversion of Jews by Christian missionaries and cult groups. Strives
to strengthen Jewish identity and to heighten awareness of what the group views
as  the  danger  of missionaries and cults. Provides information on therapy and
exit  counseling  for  Jews  who  have  been converted wishing to return to the
Jewish  faith.  Conducts  seminars  and  workshops  for  families  dealing with
conversion from Judaism. Offers computerized services. Bestows awards; compiles
statistics;  maintains  speakers'  bureau. Publications: (1) Information Kit on
Jewish Identity, quarterly; (2) Fact File of Cults and Missionaries, annual.
  Section Heading Codes: Religious Organizations (11)

  PROJECT YEDID (Cults)  (PY)
  c/o Jewish Community Center, 5700 Park Heights Ave., Baltimore, MD 21215
  (301) 542-4900
  Molly Koch, Dir.
  Founded:  1980.  Staff:  6. Works to prevent young people, particularly young
Jews,  from  becoming involved in cults. Serves as information clearinghouse on
cults  and  acts  as  resource  center.  Provides counseling services and early
prevention  seminars  for  parents of young children. Presents cult recruitment
techniques  seminars  for  high  school  and  college students; conducts weekly
discussion  groups  for  high  school  students as part of an outreach program.
Maintains speakers' bureau. Publications: Newsletter, irregular. Also Known As:
Project Friend.
  Section Heading Codes: Religious Organizations (11)

