Prophecy in an old Elton John Album, the interpretation.
This experience began during the day of Friday, March 19, 1993.
I had an unusually pleasant and happy day, treating myself to
breakfast at a diner and reading a spiritual book I had started
3 weeks before.  I had strayed from spiritual things for 3 weeks,
cuz I was setting up my BBS again (4 yrs experience at sysoping),
and I had a minor surgery that gave me 2 weeks off from work.
During the day, Friday, a PORTION, of an old Elton John song was
in my mind, from which I had also taken a line for my high
school year book, SEVENTEEN years ago.  I could not remember the
whole song, so the same part kept repeating in my mind off and on
throughout the day. YouknowhatImean?
So after supper I settled down in Windows to catch up on the 3000
messages I was behind in the conferences.  I was reading the FIDO
UFO base when I saw a one line message from Walter Bartoo:

Hi Glenda: Things are moving quickly now we need voice connection to respond
better on this. Kortron.

Immediately I began to ponder the spiritual happenings I HAD been
monitoring and been into before my 3 week spell in worldy matters.  I
retired to bed at 1 A.M. Saturday morning.  I thought about the
events of the day, and especially Walter's message.  I kept saying
to myself, "something's happening", "I can FEEL it"  That feeling
is coming back; the one I had before I ignored spiritual issues.
I fell asleep; at 1:45, I awoke to my mother yelling "Something's
happening!".  I bolted from my room, as she was saying go look out the
back window.  A surge of adrenalin, like I never felt, ran thru me, and
I literally flew up the stairs. As I looked outside, I could see "blue
flashing lights" of two police cruisers in the street beyond the small
wooded area and river behind our house.  My heart was pounding, and
as I gained consciousness, I realized that I thought the BIG earth
changes had just begun when my mother announced that "something's
happening".  I was still partially in a dream state up until I
was looking out the window.  I felt awful then, cuz I felt like
my heart would leap out of me, cuz of the adrenalin, and I was
shaking, kinda like with terror.  I was visibly upset for about 5 minutes
after that.  I went back downstairs, and my mom says "someone must be
hurt bad".  

I went back to bed, but I couldnt sleep.  The portion of the song
came back, and I began to want to REMEMBER the rest of the lyrics.
Afterall, my YEARBOOK quote was from this song; I owed it to myself
to listen to it again, so I could replay it in my mind with more
of the pieces.  BTW, this song playing in my mind was NOT annoying
me; I liked it, and it was soothing my rattled nerves.  So, I got
up and began to look for this OLD album.  I found the record album
JACKET in one of the two dusty old milk crates that I keep records
I hardly ever play in. Lo and Behold, the JACKET was EMPTY!  I
could not believe it.  I never leave records OUT of their jackets.
never.  I knew this was an interesting case of synchronicity.
Determined, I went through both milk crates, searching for the record.
Not there.  Logically, I thought, it must be in with another Elton
John album (I have all his old stuff).  Sure enough it was in with
"Madman Across The Water". Sigh of relief.

I didnt even remember the name of the song because it continues
directly off of the song preceding it, which is called "We All
Fall In Love Sometimes.  So, without even looking at the name
of the song I wanted to hear, and remembering that it was the
last song on the side anyways, I started that side from the first song.

Well, the second song, which I used to love when I was a teenager
in high school, called "Better Off Dead" was playing.  This is NOT a song
about suicide.  As I listen to the song, Elton is singing:
"Oh way in the distance, there's a blue flashing light.  Someone's
in trouble, somewhere tonight!"
I jumped up outa bed to tell my mom.  This synchronicity is getting
outa hand.  Blue flashing lights, someone, somewhere, something's
happening!  As if that were not all....

Once I calm down from that, I continue to play that side of the
record, until it got to the song, the last one, that I originally
had been humming a portion of all day.  The name of the song is
"CURTAINS" (I didnt go back to check the name til 7 Am saturday
morning when I sat down to write this TEXT).  Now I will quote
the entire lyrics to the song, as I hear them, and there are not
many, so bear with it (punctuation and Caps are mine):

-------------------------------------
EJ>I used to know, this old Scarecrow.
EJ>He was my Sorrow,
EJ>my Joy and Sorrow.
EJ>Cast alone, between the furrows,
EJ>of a field,
EJ>no longer sown, by anyone.
EJ>I held a dandelion,
EJ>that said the time had come,
EJ>to leave upon the wind,
EJ>not to return,
EJ>when Summer burned the Earth again.
EJ>Ooooooooooooooooooooh (long sorrowful moan).
EJ>Ooooooooooooooooooooh 
EJ>Cultivate the freshest flower,
EJ>this garden ever grew.
EJ>In beneath these branches,
EJ>I once wrote,
EJ>such childish Words for You.
EJ>But that's OK.
EJ>There's Treasures Children always seek to find.
EJ>And just like us,
EJ>you must have had,
EJ>a once upon a time!
EJ>Ooooooooooooooooooooh (27 long sorrowful moans. after the ninth
EJ>moan, the background vocals chant in refrain, "Love to Love
EJ>you baby".
---------------------------------------------

Now, as I listened to this song, I was impressed with spiritual
meanings behind the lyrics.  Meanings I had never thought of
in all the MANY, MANY times I listened to this one song when I
was a senior in high school, in 1976.  I didnt begin to delve
into spiritual matters until 1979.  The quote, which I had put 
under my picture in the yearbook was:

EJ>The time had come,
EJ>to leave upon the wind,
EJ>not to return,
EJ>when Summer burned the Earth again.

To me, in 1976, this quote means that, since I was graduating,
that after this coming Summer, I would not return to high school
as usual.

But this morning, as I listened to the lyrics, and understood,
and felt different meanings, I began to become extremely sorrowful.
I began to cry, while listening to the song.  I cried, and tried
to mumble the words, I knew so well, as the meanings kept pouring
into my mind and heart. I cried, and cried, and cried.  After the
song ended, I was still crying.  I sobbed, moaned, and threw my
head into the pillow.  As I was crying, I was not SAD.  As I was
crying, I felt the Earth was crying through me (due to the
perceived meanings of the song).  I continued to cry, unable
to stop, as I felt that even God our Creator was crying through me.
I have never cried so much and so hard, not even when a fellow I
was in love with, was suddenly and accidently killed.  I was still
crying and began to play parts of the song in my mind, and 
pondering still deeper into the meanings, and testing them,
and only wanting to cry even more.  Finally, I asked the Lord,
"I cannot cry for you anymore, this lil body cant take it."
After awhile I was able to gain some composure.  Lemme tell
you, crying like that, is a cleansing in and of itself.  We
need a good cry, once in a while, I guess.

After awhile I decided to listen to the other side, since I
couldnt sleep.  I began to sense prophetic meanings in the
lyrics of other songs too.  Mostly about subjects related to
the so-called end of the world, or last days.  The album is
Elton John's "Captain Fantastic".  And so, now allow me to
give you MY interpretation of that one song, "CURTAINS".
Just to give you a brief synopsis of my background as pertains
to this interpretation, I became a Christian in 1979, and
expanded that understanding in 1992 to embrace many other
cultural understandings of the nature of our Creator.  What
this means in simpler terms, is that I still have Jesus the
Christ as my Lord, while accepting the Oneness of all people
in the One Creator, and therefore I accept, as valid, other
people's experiences and knowings of this same One Creator.
Let me say that you do not have to be a Christian for this
message to have meaning for you.  It is just that my Christian
background underlies my understanding of what the song is saying.


EJ>I used to know, this old Scarecrow.


This old Scarecrow refers to Jesus, the Christed one, as
Christians would call Him, or as some others might refer
to Jesus, as one of a handful of people who took on the
Christ consciousness and came to Earth to help people.


EJ>He was my Sorrow,


The "He" here refers to God the Creator, and he is saying that
Jesus was his sorrow, because Jesus willingly gave up his
physical life, which action fulfilled ancient Israeli prophecy,
and is the basis upon which one of the ways to know the Creator
has been established in the Christian religion.


EJ>my Joy and Sorrow.


Here the Creator is contrasting how the physical death of Jesus
can be both His sorrow and his joy.  The joy comes from how that
sacrifice has helped many people in their knowing the Creator.


EJ>Cast alone, between the furrows,


Here Jesus is being portrayed as one seed.  The seed is cast,
and cast alone means it is one seed.  Here  you can refer to
the Bible verses that describe how, through the one seed 
that led to the birth of Jesus, many people will be saved.
I think of this salvation, or being saved, as one being awakened
or one having his consciousness raised to the knowing of his
oneness with the Creator.  For such a person as this, there is
No Death, and most importantly, he KNOWS, for himself that there
is no death, and that he does, indeed, have Eternal Life.
Please see the book of Genesis, in the Bible, Chapter 3,
verses 14 to 15.  God is speaking to the serpent which deceived
Eve, and here is an excerpt: "and I will put enmity between thee and
the woman, and between thy seed, and her seed; it shall bruise thy
head, and thou shalt bruise his heel"


EJ>of a field,
EJ>no longer sown, by anyone.


Here the sower is God the Creator.  A point, in Time, will come
when no more seed will be cast into the field.  This time period
refers to the end of this age, the last days, end of the world,  day of the
Lord, Tribulation period, etc.  To better understand the analogy of God
casting seed into the field, please refer to the book of Matthew,
and the parable of the wheat and the tares.  The parable is at
chapter 13, verses 24 to 30.  See also the explanation in chapter
13, verses 36 to 43.  The story is about a man who sowed seed for
wheat in a field, and an enemy came at night and sowed the seed
of tares into the field also.  The owner's servants offered to
pull up the tares, but the man said to leave them til the time of
harvest, when the tares will be gathered and burned.  Jesus explains
that the field is the world, the good seed (wheat) are the children
of the kingdom (of God), but the tares are the children of the
wicked one (the Devil).  So, again, it goes back to the prophecy
made to Eve, that there will be two seeds, hers that led to Jesus
and all those who conquer death, and the other seed of the Devil
that will lead to the Antichrist and all those who remain under
the bondage of death.  Jesus also explains that the Harvest is
the end of the world. So the song is referring to that point in
Time when no more new souls will be sown into the world.


EJ>I held a dandelion,


A dandelion is a classic 'weed'.  This weed is here being equated
with the tares sown among the wheat.  Notice how by using the word
dandelion, those people that are more familiar with this weed TODAY, 
than with the tare, will be able to understand the message.


EJ>that said the time had come,

There is that one point in Time again.  The time when no more people
will be born on the Earth to live and grow and experience physical
existence here on Earth.


EJ>to leave upon the wind,


Leaving upon the wind refers to the tares being transported through
the air (wind).  At the harvest, people will be divided into two
primary groups, the wheat and the tares, the ones that know and the
ones that don't know.  The tares will be given transportation to a
place where their souls may continue to grow based on their level
of knowing at the time of the harvest.


EJ>not to return,


The tares will not be allowed to return to the Earth for more
physical existence.  The reason is that the Earth will have changed
into a place, such that, the knowing level of tares, will be
incompatible.


EJ>when Summer burned the Earth again.


This burning refers to the CHANGE the Earth will go through.  The
Earth is raising it's vibration, or consciousness into the next
levels.  This phenomenon is also referred to as going from 3rd
and 4th dimension to possibly as high as the 5th dimension.
This means that the type of life sustainable by the Earth will
be different, both spiritually and physically.  Spiritually,
the Earth will accept souls that are of at least a certain level
of knowing (or evolution), while at the same time, unable to
accept souls of lesser knowing than the minimum.  This is the
reason both for the harvest and for the separating of the
inhabitants of the Earth by soul growth level.  The change in
the Earth can be likened to the changing of the seasons. At
some point the seasons change from Summer to Fall.  So, the
Earth, in her galactic seasonal cycle, is approaching a change
from one age to the next.

Your Bible reference is the book of Second Peter, all of chapter 3.
Here is an excerpt:
"... but the Heavens and the Earth, which are now, by the same
word are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day
of judgement and perdition of ungodly men.  ...But the day of
the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the which the
Heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements
shall melt with fervent heat, the Earth also and the works
that are therein shall be burned up."  The fire simply refers
to the physical process the Earth will undergo to move into her next cycle.
The reason the day of the Lord comes like a thief in the night,
is that you don't KNOW when a thief is going to come and rob
you.  The ones who don't KNOW, are the tares (or weeds).  They
are not prepared, because their souls have not grown to a level
of knowing required for them to be eligible to inhabit the
New Earth.  The day of judgement only becomes necessary because
of this shift by the Earth closer to the Light of the Creator.
Because of this move, new rules regarding who may live on the
Earth require this judgement, or sorting process.  The perdition
of ungodly men refers to the loss the soul experiences because
it may not continue with the Earth, due to its lack in
godliness, determined by its level of soul growth knowing.
For example, if a person does not believe there is a Creator,
then he does not KNOW the Creator, nor that he is indeed ONE
with the Creator.   At this point the person is incompatible
with the kind of life the Earth will be sustaining.  A life
where the inhabitants are knowing the Creator and each other
as ONE with each other and ONE with the Creator.  From this
type of living, a certain kind of growth for the soul will
be offered, that differs from the opportunities we have
now, sharing this Earth with souls that know and dont know.

The tares will have to be taken to a world or worlds where they
may continue from where they left off on the Earth.  A place
suitable for their souls to continue to grow in the knowing of
the Creator.  These tares, weeds, ungodly, are NOT destroyed!!
They will be transported in spaceships flown by other life forms,
which we call aliens.  This soon coming exodus from the Earth by
both the wheat and the tares, is the reason that there is 
increasing contact with alien life forms.  We often wonder
why the aliens are so interested in the Earth.  This world
has an atypical plethora of varied life forms, providing
extraordinary opportunites for soul growth.  The many species
of plant and animal life here is not common to worlds.  The
creation is ever growing and evolving, and this planet is
indeed a Paradise, and a garden of Eden.  So there are
alien people, who are also at differing levels of knowing the
Creator, who are coming to Earth at this time of the end of an age.
Some aliens are aligned toward the Light, and some are aligned
away from the Light.  Simply put, they are in the same various levels
of soul growth that we are.


EJ>Ooooooooooooooooooooh (long sorrowful moan).
EJ>Ooooooooooooooooooooh 


The moaning refers to the sorrow being felt by the Earth and
the Creator, and anyone else, who cares for the tares who will
not be able to continue with the Earth into her next phase.
This fact caused all my crying.  My crying was increased and
lengthened by my willingness to be identified with the Earth
and her Creator; in a sense I cried for them, as a witness to
their deep, and heart felt sorrow for this situation.  As the
Bible says that God created man in His image, our Creator can
be sorrowful.  Please see the book of second Peter, chapter 3,
verse 9.  "The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some
men count slackness; but is long suffering to us-ward, not willing
that any should perish, but that all should come to repentence."
This means the Creator has patience, and does not plan to destroy
any souls, but wills that all should turn away from darkness,
toward the Light.


EJ>Cultivate the freshest flower,


This verse refers to paying close attention to the nurturing
of one precious flower.  This flower represents the Bride of
Christ.  The bride of christ is the church.  The church is the
body of Christ.  The body of Christ is all those souls who will be saved.
Simply, this one flower represents all souls who have attained
the minimum soul growth knowing, to continue with the earth.
Jesus promised when he went to Heaven, to send the Spirit of
God to people to help them.  This Spirit cultivates this
freshest flower.  This Spirit is the one which is, in the last
days, poured out upon all flesh.  The Bible reference is the
book of Joel, chapter 2, verses 28 to 32.  Because this reference
is so important, and I know how some folks can be lazy, I will
quote all the verses here.  These verses are referred to by the
apostle Peter, on the day of Pentecost, the day the Holy Spirit
was sent to earth to help people.  On that day, the disciples
spoke of the wondrous works of God, and people of many different
languages were hearing the disciples' words in their own native
language.  This phenomenon is supposed to happen again in the
last days, so that those who speak of God's wondrous works will
be heard and understood by all.  Just another example of our
Creator's patience, love, and willingness that all should be
eligible to continue into the millenium age on Earth.

Quoting our Creator:

OC>"And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my Spirit
OC>upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your
OC>old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions:
OC>
OC>and also upon the servants and upon the handmaids in those days will I
OC>pour out my Spirit.
OC>
OC>And I will show wonders in the Heavens and in the Earth, blood, and fire,
OC>and pillars of smoke.
OC>
OC>The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before
OC>the great and terrible day of the Lord come.
OC>
OC>And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the name of
OC>the Lord shall be delivered: for in mount Zion and in Jerusalem
OC>shall be deliverance, as the Lord hath said, and in the remnant whom
OC>the Lord shall call."


I am persuaded that this prophecy is being fulfilled right now.  Many
of you reading this text, participate in electronic message transfers,
and you have seen message areas devoted to discussing prophecy, dreams,
visions, altered states of consciousness, UFO's, meditation, Out of
body experiences, paranormal, new age, pagan, native american religion
and prophecy, religion, the Bible, Buddhism, Hinduism, Bahai,
Mormonism, Christianity, contactees, channelling, alien visitors,
interfaith, and on and on.  The list of topics concerning the coming
events of the last days of this age are a witness that the Spirit of
our Creator is being poured out upon all people; all people; all people.

The wonders that will be shown refer to the great Earth Changes we will
experience here during that time.  Just as with a seasonal change, as
from Winter to Spring, the Earth will undergo physical changes to prepare
to birth new age.  These changes are not to punish the inhabitants. The
changes are a natural physical phenomenon.  People who experience
hardship during the changes, as we all will, will be blessed with having
an opportunity to consider, seriously, what they are knowing about
their existence.  Fear for your life?  No.  Not fear.  Not fear for those
who are knowing the Creator.  For them, it will be a time of great Joy,
in the midst of physical hardship, because they know that their time to
enter the great millenium age is near.  And because they have a relationship
with the Creator, they will see Him keep them through the Earth Changes.
Just like the Ark kept Noah, like the three guys who were kept from
burning in the fiery furnace in Daniel's time, and like Lot was kept
from the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah.  These are examples given
in the Bible scriptures of how our Creator can keep you THROUGH an
ordeal.  The people who are knowing the Creator will be spreading that
knowing and Joy to other people who are receptive to this knowing, and
who will then join in with the Joy and spreading of Joy.  Those who
are not knowing the Creator AND are not receptive to hearing of this
knowing, will experience the fear.  The fear of the loss of the body.
The fear of death; the bondage of death, which if they only KNEW, has
no power over them. Yet, as each soul has free will, each will be about
choosing for himself how he will experience this great time of change;
the Earth Changes.  The Earth Changes will be a major opportunity
for 'accelerated' soul growth.  


And so our Creator has said, in Joel, whosoever shall call on the
name of the Lord, shall be delivered.  Whosoever means anyone.
Not JUST Christians.  There is no 'special' formula.  Those who
have come to KNOW the Creator, the same shall be saved.  "But
without FAITH it is impossible to please Him: for he that cometh
to God must BELIEVE that he IS, and that He is a rewarder of them
that diligently seek Him." (He 11:6 emphasis mine).  The whosoever
must first believe that the Creator exists, then seek the Creator,
and then once the Creator is found to be within the whosoever, as
we are all ONE with the Creator, THEN the whosoever will KNOW the
Creator.  There will then be no more need for faith, as he will
know for himself.  And this knowing 'saves' him a spot in the
new millenial age on the new Earth.


EJ>Cultivate the freshest flower,
EJ>this garden ever grew.


The garden refers to Earth; this Paradise of a world.  The freshest
flower of all the people who are knowing God will have been cultivated
by the Spirit of God.


EJ>In beneath these branches,


The branches refer to the people who are knowing the Creator, who
are likened to the branches growing out of a Vine.  The Vine is
Jesus the Christ.  This verse relates to the places in the Bible
where Jesus is called the Vine and his people the branches.  People
who are familiar with this terminology will get the message.


EJ>I once wrote,
EJ>such childish Words for You.


The "I" here is Jesus speaking.  His Words that he spoke when He was on
Earth, were not childish, but 'of a child', a child of God.  As
an example to us, of a person knowing God, as a child knows it's
Father, the words of Jesus are used to this day. 


EJ>But that's OK.


What's OK?  The entire situation referred to in this song.  The
situation that will result in the tares having to go elsewhere
for soul growth.  They cannot return to Earth, after her change,
after the 'Summer burned the Earth again'.  Why is it OK?  That
is explained in the next part.


EJ>There's Treasures Children always seek to find.


We are all Children of God.  We are all One with the One Creator.
The treasures we seek, are experiences that bring us closer and
closer to the Light of God.  The Ultimate Treasure is returning
once again to God, the Creator, the Source, The All That Is.
It's OK that the tares don't get to continue with Earth, because
they will still continue to grow toward God.  They will go on
seeking, as we all will, and have been seeking.


EJ>And just like us,
EJ>you must have had,
EJ>a once upon a time!


The "us" are the wheat, or the people who will be eligible to continue
with the Earth.  Here the song closes with the assurance that the
wheat and the tares are alike.  They both have had past soul growth
and experience.  And so, they both will continue to do so.


EJ>Ooooooooooooooooooooh (27 long sorrowful moans. after the ninth
EJ>moan, the background vocals chant in refrain, "Love to Love
EJ>you baby".


About half the track of this song, on the record, contains these
27 long and sorrowful moans.  In a sense, it is a sad day that is
approaching.  A day when people will be divided up into two camps
and whisked away on spaceships, some to return later to Earth, when
she is ready, and others to other world(s), suitable to their nature.
The "Love to Love you baby" refers to the relationship between a soul
and it's Creator, which is, Love to Love; and of course we are all
Children of God, or the Father's babies.


The title, "CURTAINS" sums it up in one word.  It's curtains for you
guys, or life is but a stage....  The CURTAIN of this age is coming
down and closing.  The actors will leave the theatre.  The Play is
over.


It is my hope that this message has some meaning for you.  It is
NOT my intention to offend anyone, so if your feelings are hurt,
stop hurting now.


I would like to say that there are many people
who are coming into a knowing about this situation; they are
awakening.  They are preparing themselves for the Earth Changes,
and the New Earth, both physically and spiritually.  Best of all
they are ready to help other people wake up and come to a knowing
that will guarantee them a space in the New Earth.


BIBLIOGRAPHY

The following books have played a part in my understanding and in
my interpretation of the supposed prophecy contained in this song.

THE BIBLE - KING JAMES VERSION
THE ANCIENT WISDOM - ANNIE BESANT -ISBN-08356-7038-4
THE FELLOWSHIP - BRAD STEIGER - ISBN-08041-0373-9
MESSAGES FROM MICHAEL - CHELSEA QUINN YARBRO - ISBN 0-425-10437-0
MORE MESSAGES FROM MICHAEL - CHELSEA QUINN YARBRO - -ISBN 0-425-08662-3
MICHAEL'S PEOPLE - CHELSEA QUINN YARBRO - ISBN 0-425-10932-1
THE COMING OF SETH - JANE ROBERTS - ISBN-671-804-154
THE SETH MATERIAL - JANE ROBERTS - ISBN - 0-553-20550-1
SETH SPEAKS - JANE ROBERTS - ISBN - 0-553-25592-4
THE RA MATERIAL - ISBN - 0-89865-260-X
THE LAW OF ONE, BOOK II - RA - ISBN -0-924608-09-9
THE LAW OF ONE, BOOK III - RA - ISBN - 0-924608-08-0
THE LAW OF ONE, BOOK IV - RA - ISBN - 0-924608-10-2
NEW TEACHINGS - THE CHRIST - ISBN - 0-937147-00-1
THE STARSEED TRANSMISSIONS - RAPHAEL - 0-912949-00-7
RECREATING YOUR LIFE FROM THE CORE OF YOUR BEINGNESS - N.K. VANDEGRIFT
ISBN - 0-944363-02-4
LIFE FORCE - O.M. AIVANHOV - ISBN - 2-85566-419-5
A NEW BEGINNING I - J. & E. HICKS - ISBN - 0-9621219-3-2
THE GATEKEEPER - PATRICIA HAYES (NO ISBN)


My best wishes are on YOU!

BBS# 508-586-6977 FIDO 1:330/201 SEARCHNET 114:1/0
