                            CultWatch Response
                             Volume I, Issue 5
        -----------------------------------------------------------
From the Editor
by Gerald Bliss

Witches  are citizens.  We are  involved in  making our neighborhoods safe,
providing  useful services,  working with  charities, just  like any  other
American citizen. Even so, we keep  getting asked by some people, "What are
you doing in the community? You  aren't building churches, or hospitals, or
day care centers, so what are you doing?"

        I know of  a number of things that we  are doing. However, since we
are Witches, and since many people have  a strange idea of what that means,
we tend to do these things as  individuals or network through groups with a
single contact individual.

        There are many  groups who accept our support  as Witches, and many
others  who accept  our support  as individuals  regardless of our beliefs.
Until recently, there were no reports of groups rejecting our help (in time
or money)  because we are Witches.  This has changed, as  one animal rights
group started  returning money raised  by Witches and  forbidding them from
raising  any further  funds for  them. (Which  is why  we published "A Your
Type" last  issue...) There was also  one report of a  group in the Pacific
Northwest that turned down a donation  of food from a Wiccan group (another
group gladly accepted the gift, and  stated that all future donations would
be welcome.)

        Major  areas of  involvement deal  with issues  such as  Freedom of
Religion, Women's Rights (since the majority of Witches revere the Feminine
side  of  Deity  as  well  as  the  Masculine,  this  is a natural for many
Wiccans), Nature  Conservancy groups, Animal  Welfare, and Food,  Clothing,
and Housing activites for others who are less fortunate than ourselves.

        In many communities, you will find Wiccans involved in blood drives
or  petitioning  City  Council  to  build  needed  community facilities. An
informal  polling  of  Witches  and  Pagans  around  the  country  found an
unusually high number of us serving as EMTs, Paramedics, and in the Nursing
field or involved in other community service agencies.

        I  personally  support  the  American  Friends  Service  Committee,
subscribe to The  Freedom Writer, and receive the  Religious Freedom Alert,
(Religious  Freedom issues),  have been  a member  of the  Sierra Club, the
Naturist Society, and  Greenpeace, and I often take a  trash bag with me on
my frequent  hikes in the  mountains. I  am  a member of  an activist labor
union,  and make  frequent appearances  on local  and regional  stages as a
folksinger and filker (filk is Science Fiction / Fantasy folk music).

        We care about our families, children,  pets -- and yours -- and the
Earth itself at  least as much as you  do. Please welcome us and  make room
for  us in  your activities.  All we  ask is  acceptance and  a willingness
toward  understanding, and  together we  can all  make this  world a better
place in which to live.

                ------------------------------------

In This Issue

-- Craig Pierce begins a series on his recent visit to an Exodus seminar as
   an official CWR correspondent;

-- Kerr  Cuhulain offers another  insight into the  life of a  Pagan police
   officer;

-- Rowan Moonstone reviews  research articles on Afro-Carribbean religions,
   and an article on phony claims of Satanism in Missouri;

-- and more!! (as usual)


CWR WATCHES WATCHERS
by Craig Pierce

(On April 14-15, CultWatch  Response sponsored correspondent Craig Pierce's
attendance at an Occult Crime  Training Seminar sponsored by Exodus,S.A. in
San Antonio,  Texas. The following is  the first in a  series of eyewitness
reports on that gathering.)

        It was a week of shock, rock, fear, Satanism, exotic foreign magic,
wild allegations, and emphatic denials in San Antonio, TX, April 14 and 15,
1989. The occasion was Exodus  San Antonio's Occult Awareness program, held
only  three days  after news  of the  Matamoros cult  killings. The  recent
revelation  of  the  bordertown  bloodbaths  only  served  to intensify the
normally  tense, forboding  atmosphere Exodus  appears to  generate at  its
seminars.

        Law enforcement officers, parents, and  teachers paid $35 to hear a
presentation on "occult crime" that  would get Geraldo Rivera censored. The
shock-talk style of the first mornings' sessions were so grisly and graphic
that local law enforcement officials  forbade news cameras from filming the
presentation.

        Detectives,  arson  investigators,   customs  officials,  and  Army
criminal  investigators heard  claims  of  ritual Satanic  murders, rampant
bloody sacrifice and convoluted  conspiracies involving Smurfs, pornography
and heavy metal  music, Cinderella, the Wizard of Oz  and Golden Books were
lumped together with Slayer, Anton La Vey,  and D&D as prime weapons in the
Anti-Christ's arsenal. Allegations of a single "secret coven" of some 2,000
teenage Luciferians in  San Antonio were presented with  a straight face by
seminar speakers.

        Exodus founder Yvonne Peterson claimed  one teen cult escapee (whom
she  did not  identify) witnessed  250 Satanic  sacrifices in Central Texas
counties. Jerry Reider, a former  Satanist acting as Exodus youth minister,
related his often-told story of how  his own infant child was sacrificially
murdered by its Satanic mother. Speakers also alluded to the existence of a
vast  computerized  network  of  Satanists  that  would  make  the National
Criminal  Information  Computer  system  look  like  a  transistor radio by
comparison.

        Are  these  people  serious?   Unquestionably.  Exodus  S.A.  is  a
four-year-old Fundamentalist group of self-styled, self-appointed Christian
"experts" on Satanism and the occult.  The organization consists of some 12
core members with  about another dozen affiliates. About  150 people are on
Exodus' mailing list, according to Craig Peterson, Exodus administrator and
newsletter  editor.  The  group  has   received  much  local  and  national
attention. It  is involved in  establishing similar groups  in other cities
under different names.

        That group members are sincere  in presenting all these wild claims
is clear. Verification  of their claims, however, beyond  a few pictures of
graffiti and  vandalism, is lacking.  In fact, police  officials and Exodus
often are at loggerheads with each other on the subject of arcane crime.

        When asked about "hundreds of sacrificial victims" in Bexar County,
Larry Quintanilla,  head of the  Bexar County Sheriff's  Occult Crime Unit,
said, "We don't  have any ritual sacrifices or murders  in Bexar County. As
far as victims  go, they (survivors and Exodus  `counselors') can't tell us
where they are or who killed them."

        The embarrassing lack of bodies or any other hard evidence has been
a thorn in  Exodus' side for  quite some time.  When questioned about  this
point  during open  discussion, Yvonne  Peterson pointed  to the  Matamoros
murders, which  were linked to the  practice of Palo Mayombe.  "Now we have
them," she said. "They look just how we told you they would look.

        Exodus,  however,  had  invited  Lt.  Cynthia  Burgin, Bexar County
Sheriff's  animal  cruelty  investigator  and  expert on African-Carribbean
religions,  as  a  speaker.  In  discussing  the killings, she contradicted
Yvonne Peterson.  "This is not Satanism,"  she said, "this is  a completely
different thing."

        Yet Exodus sincerely tries to live  up to what it believes in. Like
the  Crusaders of  old, Exodus  members perceive  themselves as warriors of
Christ. In step  with this Crusader analogy is the  fact that many innocent
people are once again going down with the baby-eating bad guys -- the truth
often being  mangled in the  process, which in  turn can infringe  upon the
rights of or directly malign ethical non-Christians.

        In Exodus'  quite commendable zeal  to zap the  Prince of Darkness,
group members frequently misrepresent the  symbols and beliefs of peaceful,
law-abiding pagans  and New Agers as  being Satanic. In its  literature and
according to  its lecturers, the '60s  peace symbol, the Ankh  (the ancient
Egyptian  symbol of  life), the   upright Pentagram  (the Wiccan  symbol of
spiritual harmony), and the crescent moon (the symbol of the Goddess Diana)
alike are icons of Devil worship.

        Exodus frequently intimates that all  these symbols are one and the
same.  Paganism,  witch,  Wicca,  and  New  Age  are used synonymously with
Satanism, warlock, black magic and similar terms. The confusion they create
in listeners'  minds (many of whom  look to Exodus as  their sole source of
information)  creates  fear  of  non-  Christians  who would willingly join
forces with them in combatting violent cults.

        Exodus'    campaign    of     misinformation    also    discourages
well-intentioned  pagans desirous  of helping  survivors of  abusive cults.
They fear to step forward becaust they've been lumped in with the homicidal
weirdos. The  prejudice engendered by this  type of group also  spills over
into the workplace.  Wiccans and other pagans have  been harrassed and even
fired  because  Christian  employers  are  unjustifiably  alarmed  by  such
misstatements.

        In their literature, Exodus defines Satanism as "the religion which
worships or serves  Satan (by whatever name) as their  god." When asked if,
in her opinion, there was any non-Satanic religion or philosophy other than
Christianity, Yvonne  Peterson responded, "Jesus said,  `You are either for
me or against me.' And that's the bottom line."

        Obviously,   this   indicts   Buddhists,   New   Agers,   and   all
nature-religion  practitioners  as  Satanists.   When  asked  if  Jews  are
Satanists, Ms. Peterson indicated she  did not believe they were Satanists,
but when asked  if Jews would be allowed  in Heaven, she said, "I'm  glad I
don't have to judge that one."

        Please keep in mind that Exodus folk sincerely believe in what they
say.  It is  a statement  of their   beliefs and  as such,  we must  extend
religious tolerance of them. We  should, however, investigate what they are
leading others to believe regarding "occult crime" and how this information
impacts on the community.

        This  interesting  waltz   of  allegations-versus-evidence  flowing
between  Exodus  and  law  enforcement  officials  as  well  as  the  pagan
perspective will be explored in upcoming articles.

(Next Issue: Craig Pierce continues his report on the Exodus Seminar.)

                -*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

Hats Change at CWR

        Effective  with  this  issue,  Vicki  Copeland  assumes the post of
Executive Director  of CultWatch Response, Inc.;  Gerald retains his duties
as Editor and will still share in the correspondence duties. This change is
effected  due to  Vicki's relocation  to Colorado,  where she  can be  more
involved in the day-to-day activities of CWR than was possible previously.

        In another  addition to our  staff, Craig Pierce  (San Antonio) has
been named  as an Official Correspondent.  His role may be  expanded in the
future if his schedule permits.

                -*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

Reviews
by Rowan Moonstone

In the  light of the recent  happenings in Matamoros, Mexico,  the staff at
CWR  thought  our  readers  might  benefit  from  reviews  of the following
excellent articles on Santeria and Palo Mayombe.

"Brujeria: Manifestations of  Palo Mayombe in South Florida"  by Charles V.
Wetli, M.D. and  Rafael Martinez, M.A. (The Journal  of the Florida Medical
Association, Aug. 1983)

        This  paper  by  the  Dade  County  Chief  Medical Examiner and the
Administrative  Officer  of  Dade-Miami  Criminal  Justice  Council  is  an
excellent introduction to the beliefs  and practices of Palo Mayombe. Wetli
and Martinez  explain that, as  opposed to Santeria  (which originated with
the  Yoruba culture  of Africa),  Palo Mayombe  originated in  the Congo or
Bantu region. Palo  Mayombe, according to this article,  is a syncretism of
the  native African  beliefs and  the Catholicism  of the  Spanish colonial
cultures.

        The  paper points  out that,  while Santeria  and Palo  Mayombe are
different  belief systems,  cases have  been encountered  in which Santeros
also claim to be "Rayado en Palo"  or initiated into Palo Mayombe. In cases
like  this,  the  altars  to  the  two  belief  systems are always found in
different areas of the dwelling.

        Ritual life of  Palo Mayombe, according to this  report, centers on
the  nganga (magick  cauldron) of  the practitioner.  This iron  receptacle
contains  human  bones  (skull  and  long  bones),  sticks  of wood, herbs,
railroad  spikes,  feathers,  sacred  stones,  and  other  items  of ritual
significance  to  the  practitioner.  This  implement  should  be  ritually
dismantled upon the death of the practitioner.

        As with their previous article, the authors illustrate their points
with excerpts from actual police records. One of these illustrations points
out that some practitioners recognise a "white" sect of Palo Mayombe called
Mayombero Christiano.

        In conclusion,  the authors state: "While  Palo Mayombe is separate
and  distinct from  Santeria in  its origin  and orientation,  the cult has
nonetheless incorporated much of the symbolism of Santeria. This has led to
the  use  of  the  term  `Santeria'  in  a  generic  sense to encompass the
syncretic religions of both Yoruba and Congo origins. Understandably, those
who practice Santeria  in the Yoruba tradition (i.e.,  the white or neutral
orientations) resent  the association of skulls,  grave robbings, and other
activities attributable to Palo Mayombe. This is especially true since Palo
Mayombe did  not originate from  Santeria (as, for  example, the Protestant
sects originated  from the Catholic  Church). Thus, while  practitioners of
Santeria do not  regard Palo Mayombe as a sect  of Santeria per se, outside
observers will inevitably associate the two systems with each other because
of the syncretism  and symbols now common to  both." An extensive reference
list  is  included  for  the  reader's  benefit  should more information be
desired.

                -*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

"Forensic  Sciences  Aspects  of  Santeria,  a  Religious  Cult  of African
Origin", by  C.V.Wetli and R.  Martinez,M.A. (Journal of  Forensic Science,
July 1981)

        This  excellent paper  discusses the  origins and  practices of the
religion known  as Santeria. Wetli  and Martinez begin  the article with  a
thumbnail sketch  of "voodoo" and  "obeah", words which  are sometimes used
synonymously with Santeria. They point  out the Afro/Caribbean roots of the
belief system and it's connection with Catholicism.

        They touch briefly on Palo Mayombe,  which is considered by many to
be  the  negative  aspect  of  this  belief  system.  Along the way in this
article, the two authors provide a chart on the characteristics of the most
important deities of Santeria, and  illustrate their research with concrete
examples of seven different police cases.

        In  the  conclusion  to  this  paper,  Wetli  and  Martinez  write:
"Information concerning the beliefs and rituals of Santeria is difficult to
obtain because there is no  [Santeria] bible and because many practitioners
fear public ridicule or police retribution."

        A  bit further  on, they  offer: "To  our knowledge,  the only laws
regulating Afro-Caribbean religious practices  exist in the Cayman Islands.
However, the question of whether or not ritual sacrifice of animals legally
constitutes  cruelty  to  animals  is  frequently  raised.  In the State of
Florida such ritual sacrifice is specifically exempted from the statutes so
long as the death of the animal is virtually instantaneous."

        An extensive  reference list is  included at the  conslusion of the
article for the purpose of further research.


Reprints of these articles can be obtained from:

C.V. Wetli, M.D.
Medical Examiner's Office
1050 N.W. 19th St.
Miami, Fla. 33136

        --------------------------------------------------------------

The Plight of the Pagan Policeman
Part 4
by Kerr Cuhulain

        The  other day,  my partner  and I  were summoned  to an  apartment
building regarding a  sexual assault which had just  occurred. The scenario
goes something like this:

        A young "artsy" woman with interests in parapsychology, philosophy,
"white"  (her  words)  magick,  and  other  things  that she really doesn't
understand, goes  to a nightclub. She  was new in town  and kind of lonely.
She meets two young men, one of  whom engages her in a long conversation on
parapsychology,  philosophy,  "white"  magick,  and  other  things  that he
doesn't understand. When  the club closes, these three  go for something to
eat,  and  then  go  to  the   young  mens'  apartment,  which  is  in  the
aforementioned building.

        Once there, the artsy female  wants to continue the discussion. The
artsy  male informs  her that,  as  far  as he  is concerned,  the previous
conversation was merely a preliminary to sex, which he wants right now. She
tries to leave, he tries to prevent her,  and the fight is on. He rips some
clothes off her. She finally breaks away, naked from the waist up, bleeding
from  the  mouth,  and  sporting  a  black  eye.  She runs to a neighboring
apartment, whose occupants call the police.

        Upon arrival, I went to the artsy male's apartment with my partner.
After I arrested  this individual and explained to  him his charter rights,
he tells  me a tale  of how a  "Witch" had picked  him up in  the bar after
discussing "black" magick and Satansim and  had later tried to assault him.
After a few  minutes of this drivel, I  told him to sit down,  shut up, and
answer some  simple questions. Once  he became more  candid about what  the
conversation in the bar was about,  it immediately became apparent that the
female  involved was  neither a  Satanist nor  a Witch.  As for  the female
having assaulted him? Well, he had no discernable injuries whatsoever.

        I then went downstairs and spoke with the victim. She carried on to
me about how she knew that I wouldn't believe her story because the suspect
had probably convinced  me that she was a Satanist  and a lunatic. She said
that she  didn't know why she  had even bothered asking  to have the police
attend, because  a "chauvinist Christian"  like me wouldn't  understand her
philosophy anyway.  After a few minutes  of this drivel, I  told her to sit
down,  shut  up,  and  answer  some  simple  questions.  In this fashion, I
confirmed  both  the  content  of  the  conversation  in  the  bar  and the
superficiality of  her "Pagan" beliefs.  I then told  an open-mouthed young
lady that this Pagan officer was neither chauvinist nor Christian.

        Both  the accused  and the  victim made  assumptions about  me that
proved incorrect. The accused figured that  I'd buy his Satanist story, and
didn't  count on  getting a  Wiccan cop  to tell  it to.  Wrong. The victim
figured that  all police officers were  chauvinist Christians. Wrong again!
I'm sure that  the Goddess had a hand  in putting me in the  middle of this
situation, and a  good thing that she did, too.  Thus, what might have been
labeled  another  "occult  related  crime"   turned  out  to  be  a  pretty
straightforward  sexual assault.  I  hope  that the  fundamentalist "occult
crime fighters" won't be too disappointed!

                -*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

TRACKING AN URBAN LEGEND
by Rowan Moonstone

During  the course  of my  investigations of  Satanism and  `occult related
crime'  I have  kept extensive  archives of  clippings from  all around the
country.

        Among the several themes that keep cropping up is that of rumors of
a Satanic cult interested in obtaining blonde blue-eyed children for use in
human sacrifice rituals.

        The first  reference of this rumor  in the archives comes  from the
Vancouver Sun, June  15, 1982. The story details a  call to a local hotline
tipping  authorities  off  to  a  possible  infant  sacrifice  in the area.
Investigators later found  that the rumor was begun by  a member of a local
church group  that had misunderstood the  prayers by members of  his church
that human  sacrifices would not  occur to mean  that such sacrifices  were
imminent. (1)

        The next  reference was in  the Daily Oklahoman  Oct. 30, 1986  and
involved rumors of  possible sacrifice of a 14-year-old  virgin girl, or as
many  as  35  children.  Law  enforcement  officials  had  their hands full
assuring panicked citizens that there was no substance to the rumor. (2)

        In  March  of  1987,  the  Rocky  Mountain  News reported the rumor
surfacing in  New Mexico, where police  arrested two teenage boys  for fear
that they would offer themselves as sacrifices. (3)

        In April of  1987, a misdirected teletype from  a police department
in South Carolina set off the sacrifice rumors in Huntsville, Alabama. This
prompted a letter  from Madison County Sheriff Joe  Patterson saying "there
is no evidence of criminal activity by any Satanists (in the area)". (4)

        In September,  1987, the rumor had  travelled to Jacksonville, N.C.
where seven  local teenagers claimed to  be part of such  a sacrifice cult.
Investigations failed to turn up any evidence. (5)

        By far,  the most dangerous  occurance of this  rumor broke out  in
various parts of Kentucky last September.  Parents in these areas became so
concerned that many of them pulled their children from schools in fear, and
a photographer on assignment from the Kentucky  Arts Council was run out of
one of the schools by the principal because he feared she might be involved
with the alleged cult. (6)

        Elijah  Hollon,  Laurel  County  Sheriff's  Deputy  was  quoted  as
saying,"This is the first time to my  knowledge that a rumor of this nature
has gotten  to this proportion.  This one seems  like its carrying  on much
more than anything I've ever seen before." (7)

        But  by  far  the  most  frightening  comment  in  this  article is
attributed to Jackson Mayor Frank Noble who said, "You could have brought a
bunch of guns  in here and made a  fortune." (8) No doubt this  comment was
NOT comforting to the poor photographer from the Arts Council!

        The point to this history is simply that irresponsible reporting by
the  media, and  uninformed comments  by various  officials can do enormous
amounts of  damage to totally innocent  bystanders. As can be  seen by this
case history,  the rumors seem  to be escalating.  Hopefully they will  not
escalate   to    the   point   where   someone    is   physically   harmed.

---------

FOOTNOTES

(1) Vancuver Sun, June 14, 1982, Barbara McLintock

(2) The Daily Oklahoman, "Lawmen Tire  of Haunting Rumor", by Chris Kingon,
        Oct. 30, 1986

(3) Rocky  Mountain News,"Police Probing  Reports of Satanic  Cult in N.M."
        (AP) March 15, 1987

(4) (AP Newswire) Huntsville, Alabama, April 20, 1987

(5) (AP Newswire) Jacksonville, N.C., Sept. 2, 1987

(6) "Devil Rumors Force Photographer From Town" (AP) Oct. 4, 1988

(7)  The Bismarck  Tribune, "Rumors  of Satanistic  Child Sacrifice  Plague
        Kentucky" (AP) Oct. 13, 1988

(8) Ibid.

                -*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

PENNSYLVANIA CONTEMPLATES BILL ON SATANISM

The  legislature of  the State  of Pennsylvania  is cntemplating  a bill on
Satanism. The draft bill reads in part:

WHEREAS the organized, ritualistic,  social glorification of Satan promotes
an outlook  dominated by the  principle of evil,  and the proliferation  of
evil practices that flow as a consequence of that evil outlook; and,

WHEREAS  the proliferation  of evil  practices constitutes  a threat to the
inherent  rights of  mankind stipulated  in  Article  1, Section  1 of  the
Pennsylvania Constitution; and,

WHEREAS  the Framers  of the  Pennsylvania Constitution,  who state  in the
Preamble, "We the  people... grateful to Almighty God  for the blessings of
civil and  religious liverty and  humbly invoking His  guidance..." did not
intend  to  promote  evil  (Satanic)   practices  in  the  Commonwealth  of
Pennsylvania; and,

WHEREAS Satanic rituals "tend to  corrupt" the individuals participating in
the rituals; and,

WHEREAS  it   has  been  well-established  by   professional  studies  that
participation  in the  acts of  mutilation, didmemberment,  torture, and/or
ritualistic  sacrifice  of  animals   and/or  human  surrogates  induces  a
homicidal outlook in the mind of  the person who participates in such acts;
and,

WHEREAS the U.S.  Supreme Court states in Cantwell  v. Connecticut 310 U.S.
296 that  one may have any  religious belief one desires  but one's conduct
remains subject to regulations for  the protection of society; and, WHEREAS
the U.S. Supreme Court in Reynolds v. U.S. 98 U.S. 445 states that Congress
was deprived of all legislative power  over mere opinion, but was left free
to reach actions which were in "violation of social duties or subversive of
good  order."

The General Assembly  of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania  hereby enacts as
follows: This  Act shall be known  and may be cited  as the Satanic Rituals
and Practices Prohibition Act.

It  is the  purpose of  this Act  to protect  the health  and safety of the
people  of  pennsylvanis  from  the  menace  of the organized, ritualistic,
social  glorification  of  Satan  as  subversive  and  destructive  of  the
foundation of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

All group  activities and practices  which have as  their main purpose  the
glorification of Satan shall be  prohibited. All individuals engaged in the
organized, ritualistic, social glorification of Satan shall be deemed to be
in violation of this act.

Satanic  acts,  practices,  and  rituals  which  constitute  the organixed,
ritualistic, social  glorification of Satan  include, but are  not strictly
delimited to :

a)  The consumption of human blood;
b)  The  ritualistic  consumption  of  animal  blood,  and/or  animal blood
        intermixed with urine and/or feces;
c)  Ritualistic animal mutilations, dismemberments, and sacrifices;

d)  Ritualistic use and abuse of human fetuses;
e)  Ritualistic hanging, torturing and/or crucifying animals on crosses;
f)  Ritualistic hanging, torturing, and/or  crucifying animals on  inverted
        crosses;
g)  Ritualistic sexual abuse of  children, as well  as ritualistic symbolic
        sexual abuse of children;
h)  Ritualistic sexual  abuse of  men  and  women, as  well as  ritualistic
        symbolic sexual abuse of men and women;
i) ritualistic psychological abuse of children;
j) Ritualistic cannibalism.

Any person  who violates any  provision of  this  Act shall be  fined up to
$15,000 and shall be subject to a  jail term of seven years. The crime will
be considered a Felony of the third degree.

Any person  who violates any provision  of this Act a  second time shall be
fined up to Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars  ($25,000) and shall be subject to
a jail term  of ten years.  the crime  will  be considered a  Felony of the
second degree.

Any person  who violates any  provision of this  Act a third  time shall be
fined no  less than Twenty-  Five Thousand Dollars  ($25,000) and shall  be
subject to  a jail term  of twenty  years.  The crime will  be considered a
Felony of the first degree.

[Editorial comment: On  the surface, this appears to be  a very good thing;
after all,  no one wants  to go on  record as approving  of animal cruelty,
child  abuse, torture,  murder, etc.  But  look  at this  proposed bill  in
another light. Surely  there are already laws on  the books in Pennsylvania
preventing animal cruelty, fetus abuse, child  sex abuse, and all the other
ills mentioned in this bill. The portion  that is of the most concern to me
is  item i.  "Ritualistic psychological   abuse of  children". This  can be
construed to  mean anything. It could  even be applied to  Funda- mentalist
sects who  do not allow  their children to  watch television, dance,  go to
movies,  etc.   This  clause  leaves  the   door  open  to  a   VERY  broad
interpretation. The  idea of a  law, however phrased,  aimed at controlling
ANY religion  leaves a decidedly  bad taste in  my mouth. Enforce  the laws
that  are  already  on  the  books,  and  leave  religion  alone. Today the
Satanists, tomorrow,  who knows. It could  be YOUR church that  is declared
evil next. It all depends on who is in power. -- Vicki Copeland.]

        -*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

MISSOURI POLICE INVESTIGATE CLAIMS
by Rowan Moonstone

Police in  several areas of  Missouri have answered  many of the  questions
posed in the article on Ritual Child Abuse (CWR Vol.1, Issue 3).

        According to an  article from the Joplin Globe  News, dated Jan.19,
1989, which ran  on the front page, investigators  have checked out several
rumors of Satanic activity, including  one woman's account of witnessing an
infant sacrifice, only  to come up empty handed.  Further investigation and
questioning  of  the  woman  led  her  to  admit  that  "she made the false
accusations to get attention."

         Another question that we raised in  the child abuse article had to
do with the  allegations of criminal activity posed  by 'survivors' of cult
groups who  appear on various national  talk shows. Joplin police  Lt. Dave
McCracken  said in  this article  that "two  incidents reported on national
television  that we  determined to  be fabricated"  were investigated.  The
police disproved  the allegations made by  a man who appeared  on a Geraldo
Rivera  show. The  individual in   question had  made allegations  that law
enforcement agencies  are themselves involved  with Satanism. According  to
the article, "the claims were made because the man is mentally ill."

        After posing questions about this very thing, it is a relief to see
that at least  one law enforcement agency is  attempting to investigate the
outrageous claims that  are being made. And it is  even more encouraging to
find out that CWR's position that the  alleged crimes do not exist is being
borne out by thorough investigation by trained professionals.

        Further  information  can  be  obtained  from  the article entitled
"Claims Prove False, Authorities say Satanic Allegations Untrue, Costly" by
Debby Woodin, Joplin Missouri Globe News, Jan 19, 1989, P1.

------------------------------------
NOTES:

Changes Made in Texas

The work done recently by a group of Wiccan elders in the Dallas-Fort Worth
area  who have  been conducting   seminars to  educate the  law enforcement
community  about  the  Craft  has  resulted  in  the  local law enforcement
authorities changing the  name of their unit from the  OCCULT TASK FORCE to
the DEVIANT CULT TASK FORCE...and they have removed Witchcraft and Druidism
from the list of targeted groups!

From Other Sources

        An  editorial in  the May,  1989 issue  of Religious  Freedom Alert
contains some interesting quotes. I will attempt to keep them in context in
the space available.

        "A close  look at the implications  of the Matamoros tragedy  is in
order  before  professional   `anti-cultists'  and  `anti-Satanists'  begin
distorting the facts to fit their pre-conceived theories..."

        "...the  popular  press  is  asserting  that  the  killings  have a
sociological connection (if not direct  organizational links) to a Medieval
European  heresy  whose  gory  symbols  have  recently become popular among
teen-age fans of `heavy metal' music. In this sociological sense, the claim
that the Matamoros killings were `Satanic' is wholly false..."

        "A  number  of  hidden  agendas  underlie  the  Satanism  hysteria.
Opportunists are feeding the hysteria for  the sake of profit or celebrity.
Some Christian publications, seeing the  rise of Satanism as a confirmation
of their beliefs, have not worked hard enough to dig for the truth in their
reporting of  the Satanism issue. One  of these, a small  newsletter called
File 18, has been so sloppy with  its facts that its editors appear to need
reminding that the Truth is not in need of any help from falsehood..."

        "Until more  convincing proof has  been produced, Americans  should
view the `Great Satanist Conspiracy' with healthy skepticism."

        We at  CultWatch Response applaud  the skepticism inherent  in this
line  of reasoning.  Religious freedom  is for  everybody, not just certain
majority groups.

                        -*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

CWR Changes Publication Schedule

        Effective immediately, CultWatch Response will be published 6 times
per  year,  with  regular  Samhain  and  Beltein  issues. All subscriptions
already received will still run their full number of issues.

        The new  annual subscription rate  is $15.00; this  is actually the
same price as before. Sample copies are  $2.00, and only one sample will be
sent  to  an   address.  See  the  back  page   for  subscription  details.

                        -*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

Editorial Policies

CultWatch Response  is published by CultWatch  Response, Inc., a non-profit
Corporation  under the  laws of  the  State  of Colorado.  We publish  many
original works in the interest  of supplying law enforcement officials with
information on the Craft in the United States and Canada; we also republish
(with  permission)  articles  from  other  sources,  such  as United Campus
Ministry, The Freedom Writer, AP, UPI, and others.

        Each  issue   is  distributed  to   our  mailing  list,   including
subscribers, contributors, and major law enforcement officers. We encourage
groups  and  individuals  to  republish  each  issue  for  the  purpose  of
distribution to police, media, and community organizations in their area.

        We welcome articles, reviews, etc.  We do ask that our contributors
not UNFAIRLY promote any race, cultural  group, either sex, or any magickal
group or tradition above another. We emphasize careful research and/or well
thought-out  opinions, and  will not  consider articles  suggesting harm to
anyone or anything.

        CultWatch  Response,  Inc.,  is  supported  totally by subscription
revenues, and any shortfalls are made up from the pockets of Board members.
It is  not supported by  any religious, political,  or business group,  and
does  not favor  any tradition  above another.  We are  in the  business of
promoting  understanding about  and among   the Craft,  making it  safe for
responsible people to practice their chosen religion.

        If you  are interested in  helping CWR reach  its goals, or  simply
would like  to read CWR as  it is published, please  subscribe. A coupon is
provided for  that purpose on the  last page.

Excerpts from the By-Laws of CultWatch Response, Inc.

[Ed.  Note: This  is a  nearly  complete  rendition of  CWR's By-Laws.  All
omissions  are shown  by ellipses {...}.  A complete copy  is available  on
request to all paid subscribers.]

I.  BOARD OF DIRECTORS

        A. The Board  of Directors shall consist of a  minimum of two and a
        maximum of  five members. All  vacancies shall be  created, and all
        seats shall be filled, at the discretion of the seated Directors at
        any properly convened meeting. The  initial Board will be set forth
        in the Articles of Incoporation.

        B. The term  of a Director is one year.  Any Director may serve any
        number of consecutive terms.

        C. Eligibilty for a position on the Board will be determined by the
        Directors, and the conditions for eligibility may be made public at
        the discretion of  the Board. No person may  be considered eligible
        for a position  on the Board without their  prior consent that they
        will serve if selected.

        D. Meetings of  the Board shall be held at  least twice yearly, and
        may  be called  by any  Director so  long as  all members have been
        informed  of  the  meeting  in  time  to  make proper arrangements.
        Meetings  may  be  held  with  any  member  either in attendance or
        attending via telephonic  or computer linkage, so long  as at least
        two-thirds of the Directors participate in such a meeting.

II. OFFICERS

        A. Executive Director  - This office serves to  chair all meetings,
        conduct all the day-to-day business of the Corporation, ensure that
        proper records  are kept of  all meetings, and  otherwise carry out
        the functions necessary to the Corporation...

        C.  Editor  -  This  office  shall  be  responsible for collecting,
        editing,  and  publishing  articles   for  the  CultWatch  Response
        newsletter, and be responsible for all of the daily business of the
        newsletter except as overseen by  the Board and its office-holders.
        The  person holding  this office  need not  be a  Director, at  the
        discretion of the Board.

III. PURPOSE

        The primary purpose  of CultWatch Response, Inc., is  to create and
        disseminate CultWatch Response, a  newsletter written to inform the
        law enforcement  and media communities  regarding the realities  of
        the Old Religion as practiced in North America. Secondary goals may
        include  developing presentations  on the  Craft to  law enforcment
        groups and/or the  general public in the form  of talks, workshops,
        or seminars, or  arranging for speakers to appear  on behalf of the
        Craft.  In all  of these  efforts, it  is of  primary importance to
        network with  various Craft groups and  individuals. It should ever
        be  remembered  that  our  responsibility  is  to  inform, never to
        attack.

IV. DISTRIBUTION OF THE NEWSLETTER

        ...The Editor of the Newsletter has full authority to implement any
        means he/she finds available in this effort.

V. FUNDING

        Our only sources of funding include the funds given the corporation
        by  members  of  the  Board  and  donations  by  individuals,  plus
        subscription  revenues  from  the  newsletter.  CultWatch Response,
        Inc., is  a non-profit corporation, incorporated  under the laws of
        the State of Colorado...

VI. SECRETS

        Except as each of us is bound  by our individual oaths to our Gods,
        CultWatch Response, Inc.,  will attempt to abide by  the maxim, "No
        More Secrets!" We do not, as a group, feel that keeping our secrets
        will benefit the Craft in  the coming times. Nonetheless, no person
        working on  behalf of CultWatch Response,  Inc., should violate any
        of their oaths, and none will be  expected or required to do or say
        anything that they cannot do or say in good conscience.

ADOPTED THIS 4TH DAY OF OCTOBER, 1988

Please  enter my  subscription to  CultWatch Response.  I have enclosed $15
(U.S. Funds -- Canadian subscribers  please send $20.40 U.S.). I understand
that  this  payment  will  entitle  me  to  the  next 6 issues of CultWatch
Response (one year).


NAME:_____________________________________ Phone (Opt.) (____)____-________

ADDRESS:___________________________________________________________________

CITY, STATE, ZIP:__________________________________________________________
(Or City, Province, Postal Code)

Mail this coupon or facsimile to:

CultWatch Response, Inc. - P.O. Box 1842 - Colorado Springs, CO  80901-1842
