
==============================================================================

This File was downloaded from:
                                  T H E

                 " The Nastiest Board in the Catskills"
          úÄÄÄÄ°°°°°°°°Ü°°°°°°°°Ü°°°°°°°°Ü°°°°°°°°Ü°°ÜÄÄÄ°°ÜÄÄÄÄÄú
       úÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄßßßßß°°Û ßß°°Ûßßß°°Ûßßß°°Û ßß°°Ûßßß°°ÛÄÄÄ°°ÛÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄú
    úÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ°°ÜÄÄÄ°°ÛÄÄÄ°°ÛÄÄÄ°°°°°°°°ÛÄÄÄ°°ÛÄÄÄ°°°°°°°°ÛÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄú
       úÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ°°ÛÄÄÄ°°ÛÄÄÄ°°ÛÄÄÄ°°Û°°°ÛßßÄÄÄ°°ÛÄÄÄÄßßßßß°°ÛÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄú
          úÄÄÄÄ°°°°°°°°Û°°°°°°°°Ü°°ÛÄ°°°°ÜÄÄÄ°°ÛÄÄÄ°°°°°°°°ÛÄÄÄÄÄú
                ßßßßßßßß ßßßßßßßß ßß ßßßßß    ßß    ßßßßßßßß
                                SysOp: G R
                          Co-SysOp: Kathy Johnson
      úÄÄÄÄ°°Ü   °°Ü°°°°°°°°Ü°°°°°°°°Ü°°Ü   °°Ü°°°°°°°°Ü°°°°°°°°ÜÄÄÄÄú
   úÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ°°Û   °°Û°°Ûßßß°°Û°°Ûßßß°°Û°°Û °°Üßß°°Ûßßßßßß°°Ûßßß°°ÛÄÄÄÄÄÄÄú
 úÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ°°°°°°°°Û°°°°°°°°Û°°Û      °°°°Üßß  °°°°°°°°Ü°°°°°°°°ÛÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄú
   úÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ°°Ûßßß°°Û°°Ûßßß°°Û°°Û   °°Ü°°Ûß°°Ü  °°Ûßßßßßß°°Û°°°ÛßßÄÄÄÄÄÄÄú
      úÄÄÄÄ°°Û   °°Û°°Û   °°Û°°°°°°°°Û°°Û  ß°°Ü°°°°°°°°Ü°°Û °°°°ÜÄÄÄÄú
            ßß    ßß ßß    ßß ßßßßßßßß ßß    ßß ßßßßßßßß ßß  ßßßß
                 Graphics Oriented:Open 24 Hours:Adults Only
                   Node 1 (914) 796-4566 2400/19200 HST
                   Node 2 (914) 794-5306 1200/2400 DATA
                   Node 3 (914) 794-1971 1200/2400 VOICE/DATA

==============================================================================

Dahala's armor felt warm on her shoulders as she saddled her war stallion.
She hated horses and this spirited light war horse was no exception. They
tended to be headstrong and they smelled bad, though, admittedly, their fur
could be soft. The feel of the saddle reminded her of the smooth leather
against her own skin under her armor. She loved leather and when the horse
died, either in combat or if she slit the foul thing's throat, she'd make
herself a new jerkin out of it's hide.

She swung up into the saddle, the girth tight around the horse's
barrel, the cinch squeezing it snuggly. Though she was still a virgin,
she was not quite the valiant knight most thought her to be - mainly
because she, and her 5 sisters, enjoyed the teasing she could give the
men - and the sound thrashing if they overstepped their bounds. Still
she was kind by nature. She was a tall woman, broad of shoulder,
narrow of waist, and quite lithe. Her musculature did not detract,
rather, it enhanced her shapely figure. The long flowing blonde hair
left hidden, along with the firm curves, inside the full plate armor
she wore.


The horse was a buckshin with a slightly whiter mane and tail. As she
had combed the mane out it had kicked her viciously, almost as if it
knew and understood her resentment, as if it knew she enjoyed
dominating it, and it chafed at the dominance.  Faint traces of that
resentment faded as they rode off.

Rumors of a dragon, a foul platinum colored thing, swept the land. It
was said that this dragon was once kind and good but now it had been
conquered and corrupted by the evil goddess Tiamat. Now she rode forth
to find it. And slay it.

She passed a field with a mare in it. From the way the stallion
pranced she guessed that the mare was in heat. The thought of the
stallion being tormented by the mare caused her to smile. Shades of
her teasing many a man with her own sexuality. As she drew closer she
realized that it smelled as bad as the stallion, ending the comparison
right there.

Soon she came upon a scene of great beauty - gold strewn about the
mountain - works of art scattered carelessly - the dragon's horde. Out
dareing any to even touch it. Gnawed bones and shattered armor showed
what fate befell those attempting to claim that horde.

She lowered her visor and lance and spurred the horse forward. Over
the rise it lay, every joint plated, many sharp spurs covering it,
razor sharp teeth filling its mouth. And it was regarding her. She
charged. The lance struck home and she was hurtled from her mount.
With a glance from the dragon the stallion froze - a statue.  She
tumbled to the base of another statue, that of a naked woman and
shuddered, wondering. Suddenly the thing's massive paw pinned her to
the ground in her armor. The jaws closed around the helm and ripped,
freeing her long hair. The dragon stopped, regarding her with a gleam
in its eye.

"Well, what have we here? A wench? You could prove much sport!"

Casually, it pulled the lance out of a bony shoulder, gushing forth
blood. A good hit but his magic healed it quickly. And, as it healed
the wound, the dragon began to shrink, becoming just more than half
again her size.

With another crunch it ripped off her breast plate exposing her heaving chest
beneath the leather jerkin she wore, slicked with her sweat.

"Ahhhh", said the dragon, "I like a woman who can appreciate the caress of
leather."

With a single talon he slit the jerkin open and stood there eyeing her
beautiful breasts. They had been compressed behind the jerkin but now
they burst forth, sweat and a few beads of blood rolled down her
cleavage.

"Why does such a beautiful wench hide her beauty?"

Her breasts were full, her nipples ripe. The forked tongue snaked out
and circled them causing them to worry slightly. She gaspsed as the
tongue traced wet lines around her chest, then surrounded one and
squeezed it firmly. Her hips arched upward, her own desires giving her
away.


"Hmmm", said the dragon, "the bitch showes her true colors. Let's
reveal the rest of thy hidden pleasures."

The dragon extracted her from the armor like a lobster from its shell
and she lay before him naked. With a breath of icy flame the dragon
breathed between her legs and the hair on her pussy turned to ash,

leaving her skin smooth and untouched beneath. Lizard smooth.

"Now", said the dragon, "on your knees. I wish to sample those ruby
lips."

She found herself unable to refuse as she grovled before the platinum
beast. She lapped at his paws 'til he swung behind her, mounting her
as a ram mounts a ewe.  With hardly a thought the beast took her
virginity.

Virginity! Her order of knight required females to be virgins. She
would be banished! The realization was nearly as devastating as the
rape itself. She felt his scaley belly press down against her back his
head snaked forward and pressed its scaley lips to hers. Before she
could think, much less respond, the forked tongue was exploring her
mouth, forcing itself in. She could not spit it out. The scaley paws
began to wrap around her as it's huge member bore down into her womb.
One taloned paw rubbing her nipples.... Her body was betraying her -
her nipples hardening - her juices helping his memeber slide in faster
and deeper. The dragon chuckled and continued his rape of her. She
lost track of time as she squealed under his draconian body and he
called her his strumpet. Finally his seed was cast into her it was
strangely warm but no less repulsive. Her first time with a male had
been at the paws of a lizard!

"Now my dear", said the dragon, "I *must* be clean...."

She screamed curses at him but the paws forced her face between his
haunches. He hissed in delight as she tried to bite his huge cock to
no effect. As he held her head his loins pumped into her, cleaning her
own juices and his seed off with her mouth.  When he had finished he
chained her naked in the sun to the statue that had been her horse. He
noticed that, despite her chains, she stayed as far from the statue as
she could.

The dragon addressed her: "Could it be you do not like your former servant?"

"No!", she said. "I care nothing for the beasts of any kind!"

"Do you now?", replied the dragon.

The dragon flew off, leaving her sobbing as she tried to clean herself
as best as possible. As night fell the dragon returned with a handsome
youth in his jaws.

"I have found a lover for you."

The youth was dead, his head lolled to the side. Leaving the body with her, the
dragon scratched a pentagram around the three. He looked to the sky and said:
"TIAMAT! Hear your slave! As you defeated me and made me into your image - I
beg you, grant me this spell, my goddess!"

Slowly the boy and horse merged, blending to form a centaur. Another
puff of his icy breath breathed a sinister life into the previously
still form.

"NOW", the dragon said, "the horse has a human intellect but still all
the desires of a stallion - and he rembers how he was treated by
humans!"

She shuddered - she was still chained to the beasts hind leg. The
centaur reared and praced at its vitality before noticing the chain
and what it held. A cruel smile flicked across its face. The centaur
looked down.

"All womanhood will be my brood mares! Slut! Lick the hooves clean!"

"No!",  She screamed and recieved a kick for her defiance. She wimpered.

"Do it, my sweet slut! Or your sisters I'll seek out and have them tortured!"

She looked into its eyes then pressed her lips to it's hooves and bent
to her work, her breasts swaying heavily beheath her. The centaur
laughed at her servitude and forced her to clean its entire body.

"My god Bahamut who thru Tiamats wishes has created me - allow me her
as a slave! Forever naked and linked to the horse. She shall only eat
my seed for her food...my excrement sheall feed her as well!"

The dragon chuckled and held and fondled her while the stallion again
raped her loins. When he was finished the dragon tied her arms around
the centaur's barrel so she was staring at its huge balls. Against her
own will she found herself licking them, covering them with a layer of
her own spit. Again she found herself cleaning her own juices from the
cock of a beast. Her legs were tied between the centaurs front legs
and her head forced under its tail. As it reared in triumph her
breasts stuck out just infront of the horse's haunches. She felt them
heavy with milk. The centaur noticed this as well and slowly fondled
then milked her breasts. Soon, pearly drops form on her nipples and
the centaur bent his head to taste them.

"A brood mare and a milk cow! Wonderful!"

"Now", said the dragon, "I shall hunt down her family and we shall truly have
fun."


   Marsha went about her tasks with her usual zeal.  The capture and

subjugation of her sister by the dragon were unknown to her, just as
she was unaware of its invisible platinum eyes watching her.

  She and the birds had a unique bond and, at times, she felt more at
home with them than with humans. As she fed raw meat to the injured
birds of prey she heard a crashing in the trees. Investigating, she
found what appeared to be a falcon, a falcon the size of a pony. A
pony? No, it was larger still. Examoination revealed still other
surprises - it was but half falcon. The beautiful front half was
attached to the powerful hindquarters of a male lion.
  Strange, yes, but injured as well. Many arrows protruded from it and
much blood had been lost. With much effort she managed to load it into
a cart and haul it back to the largest cage she could find. As she
cleaned and bandaged it, the bright eyes opened briefly until she
stroked it's head. Soothed, it fell asleep on the soft straw.

She awakened early to go check on her new charge and found it sitting
calmly, waiting for her. It, or rather he, watched her closely as she
hobbled and muzzled it.  The golden eyes rested uncomfortably long on
her blowing hair and loosely covered breasts. She could not help but
noticing its long cock harden and wondering what else might be strange
about it.

Unbeknownst to her it had been the leader of a great Arie and was
mated to a pure white griffin.  A rival griffin desired both his power
and his mate. Lacking the prowness to win in fair battle he had turned
to Bahamut.

Griffins were strange beasts, certainly, but still quite inteligent
and governed mostly by emotions instinct and a strict code. Mates and
positions went to those who won in open challenge. Transformed by
Bahamut into a pure black with eyesight enhanced by night vision he
felt confident in calling out Krie in the dead of night.

Expecting nothing more than an annoyance Krei was surprised by the
viciousness and accuracy of the attacks. Before he realized the
seriousness of his predicament Cack had battered him to
unconciousness. As he lay in the mud Cack landed upon his body and
pressed his face into the mud. Then slowly and with great malace Cack
took a foot into his beak and twisted until the bone snapped.
Methodically, he repeated this on the other leg.

He lifted the battered and now torn Krei in his beak and delivered him
to another rogue griffin.

"Use him as you see fit but if you kill him you'll answer to me. Make sure he
suffers..."

With that, he lifted off to find Krrk, Krei's mate. Normally a female
may choose her own mate as the leader will intercede on her behalf if
a griffin attempts to force her. But with Krei gone she had lost both
her leader and her mate. She flew fast, as fast as possible in the
night, but could not avoid what she could not see. He flew around her,
teasing and playing with her in the night sky, 'til she fell panting.
Lifting her in his talons he brought her to display to the arie

As they arrived Krei moaned. The other griffin had his legs splayed
while he lay on his belly on a rock. The other male was thrusting into
him as it's friends held Krei and waited their turn, their long dicks
stiff and balls full. They mounted Krei as he had mounted Krrk,
probing with their long cocks under his tail each rolling it's lust
into him.

Kack forced Krrk to watch the rape. "See, my dear, he loves another!"

 Raising his muddy paw, the one that he had used to rub Krei's face in
the ground, he ordered her to clean it.  She resisted until he reached
a talon out to Krie and opened another gash in his side.  Her avian
tongue began to work over his paw.

"Thats better, my dear. See Krei, I am training her already."

 After she was done he lay her face down beside Krie and moved around
behind her.

"Now everyone here will watch me take you as my mate, including your
ex-beloved! Is there any who wish to oppose me?"

Krie attempted to rise by was forced down, head turned to Krrr.

"No? Then let the fun begin!"

 With that he pressed the griffiness to the ground and placed a foot
upon her head to keep her chest pressed to the stone. As her hind
quarters rose his long black shaft pressed into her pink and white
twat. Despite herself, and despite the torment visible on Krei's face,
she shuddered with pleasure. He was very big and he groaned at her
tightness. She felt his balls press against her and she could nor
resist anything he did to her.

Stroke for stroke, his friends matched him plunging into Krei as he
took Krrk.  Finally, they were done with Krei but he continued to work
into her cunt, ass, and mouth for better than 2 hours, pleasuring
himself and bringing her to new heights until she begged him to spare
her and agreed to be his mate. She felt his hot seed shoot into her
for the last time that night and knew that he had fertilized her. Now
none could dispute his claim on her.


After sending her to his den he took Krei to the dragon. Bahamut looked down
upon the two.

"You have done well, my servant. You may keep his mate and I will take
care of him."

Weaving  mystic energy he tapped into Krei's mind.

"Now we shall continue our games. So you don't feel left out we'll
permit you to lust after a females still, but human females. One in
particular will fall to your domination as Krrk has falled. As Krei's
identity faded so did his will to resist - he would do as his master
ordered.

So now as this woman stood before Krei he noted her hair and her firm
yet compact breasts, the kind he'd like to see be attached to a
milking machine.  She walked in and checked his splints and bandages.
When she turned to walk off he could see a very tight ass shifting
beneath the leather.

In the hot sun Marsha was all alone and could see no reason not to
disrobe. Lifting the jerkin freed her breasts to bounce slightly in
the sun. The warmth tightened her nipples and send inner warmth to her
thighs. With her pants removed Krei could see that she was evenly
tanned and grew no fur between her legs. Her ass was round and broad
in the hips and her legs curves gently to her ass cheeks.

  She noticed the griffin's eyes following her and again the hardening
of his cock. Always willing to tease a male when she was in control,
she began to stroke her hands down her sides, following each curve.
The slid up her stomach and cupped each breast to the sun, gently
squeezing each in turn, stiffening the nipples. Head thrown back, she
spread her feet and allowed her hands to fall to her cunt. Gently
playing with her clit, she spread her inner lips to Krei's gaze.
Noting the lust in those eyes she swayed forward and cocked her hips
towards the cage. Slowly, his tounge reached out ... and in. Bypassing
her clit, it slid deep into her, the longest most flexible, most
talented thing she'd ever had in her.  The rush of pleasure forced her
to grab the cage and lift her hips closer.  And then he withdrew, and
sat back in the cage. Disappointment filled her but knowledge filled
him. He knew that she would fall to his power.

It was the third week sincee she had brought the griffin in. The
wounds healed with a speed that was ammazing - already it's grey wings
were restored to their earlier power. It was hot again that day and, as
usual she was naked, teasing the griffin. She'd not been able to get it
to use it's tounge on her again, though, much to her dismay.

She opened the outer door to Krei's cage and stepped in. He appeared
to be asleep - a good chance to change his water. She slipped into
through and set the tray down. When she turned around she gasped.
Soundlessly, the griffin had blocked her exit and both cage doors were
closed.  The griffin peered at her with avaian eyes. She backed into a
corner.  It stalked up to her. She saw the feline muscles in it's back
and the huge feathery chest and collapsed to her knees. The griffin
let out a loud squawk and reared. She closed her eyes expecting death.
A taloned claw closed around her head and pulled her toward that great
beak but insted she had sonething hard rammed into her lips. In
surprise she opened her eyes. In horror she tasted the salty sweaty
end.of it's cock and saw two furry orange sized twany balls swaying in
front of her. It was pleasuring itself with her - it was forcing it's
way into her mouth. This was not supposed to happen - it was supposed
to be serving her!

  She bit down and the griffin squawked angerly and cuffed her,
leaving a bloody gash accross her back. It would kill her, she
thought, almost hoping so. But instead the beast wrapped it's claws
around her head and drew her to it's beastial crotch. Too frightened
to try biting again, Krei held her head motionless as his loins began
working his cock in and out of her throat. She'd never had a male
before but she realized that he was truly huge. The fur tickled her
chin and the salty taste was not what she had expected. She looked up
past it's belly as saw it's avian eyes closed in pleasure while the
talons kept a firm grip on her.

She was more surprised when it squirted down her throat, filling her
mouth and overflowing onto her breasts. Silky feeling on her throat, salty
on her mouth, sticky and warm on her skin. The griffin pulled out and
stood over her. To her dismay it lifed a leg and drenched her in
urine, making sure that some splashed into her mouth. He was only marking
her now but would teach her to drink it later.

Krei was strutting around the cage flicking his eyes over the girl shivering in
the corner, still in shock from the rape of her throat. He wondered if Cacak
was crouching on Krrk now, pleasuring himself, spilling his seed into her
throat, cunt, and ass. The comparison left him annoyed, not really even
angry. He had Krrk so well trained and here he was, forced to train another
one. Granted, she was soft and quite desireable, for a human, but ... Well,
perhaps he could train her even better than Krrk. She certainly had potential.

Despite his hopes for her he yearned to return to the arie, to his master
Cacak, to crouch beside Krrk as Cacak used both of them in turn. What once
would have driven him to rage now seemed to be a source of pleasure. Something
was wrong but he could only vaguely being knocked silly and then something
cutting into his brain.

Well back to business. With one swipe of his claw, oh dear he chipped a talon,
the cage walls fell outward. He pushed the girl with a feathery

head. She stood on both legs and was rewarded with a vicious swipe. After
two more attempts she realized that she must remain on her belly or on
all fours. Even in her shock she realized that this would allow him to mount
her at will.

She crawled out, more than a day since the griffin had taught her how to
suck cock. She spent most of the night with the thing's balls resting in her
mouth. When he wasn't filling her mouth with semen. It seemed that he never
tired. Worse, it seemed as if he enjoyed teaching her with cuffs to the head
how best to please him. And, worst of all, she was even getting good at it.
Her crawling accented the roll of her ass cheeks and the tauntness of her body.
Twin trails remained in the dust where her nipples dragged and the muscular playof
 her thighs drew his eyes up to her cunt, one orifice that he had yet to try.
Where his eyes went his cock soon followed. He walked over and strattled her.

She felt the feathers on her back and knew what was comming. The scaly hawk
foot landed in front of her and the beak pressed her lips to it. The texture
was warm and revolting, similar to snake scales in the sun, but her tounge
continued to lap at it as her breasts pressed into the ground. Behind her
she felt pressure of the lion's cock pressing into her. Her body shuddered
and she pulled her knees apart to allow it easier entry. Juices flowing off
its cock combined with ones she made against her own will. Another shudder
rushed through her as the tip of the cock pressed against her womb. Lost in
the sensation she pressed back against it. One foreleg cupped her belly and
pulled her harder, back to the probing member. She gasped as Krei began to
hump her in earnest. Krei's loins rocking him forward on his hind toes then
back again.  Her knees and hands sunk slightly in the soft dirt, breasts
digging out twin holes with deeper indentations for her nipples. Gasps
poured from her throat yet tears welled in her eyes. Soft feathers came down
and encompassed her like a cacoon. The feathers soft on her tits, carressing
them. Still he thrust.

Unlike the centaur, the Griffin could impregnate a human, the result being a
winged sphinx. Krei intended on having more than one litter by her. After an
agonizingly pleasurable hour of beastial lust she felt Krei orgasam into her
before he fell atop her, panting over his slave.

That night Krei repeated his feat in her ass, leaving her sore and unable to
walk even if she'd desired to do so. She had such a tight sweet ass.  As her
errupted into her ass, Krei wondered if Cacak thought the same about him.
Still unsatisfied he paced around in front of her and knocked her onto her
back with all the care of someone flipping a turtle over. He then lifted his
tail and sat on her face, sealing her mouth with his ass and her nose with
it's cheeks 'til she could not breathe. Krei let her struggle then get some air
then struggle again 'til he felt the satisfaction of her tongue extending
inside him.

In the morning she was exhausted but her respite from sexual abuse was
replaced by the sheer terror of the flight to his arie in the claws.  An
lizard man and a platinum one waited by Cakac. Krei placed her at the feet
of Cakac who still had Krrk beneath him. Krei prostrated himself before
Bahamut and felt his own ass violated. His compliance was hardly surprising,
given the god's wrath, but his ready acceptance of Bahamut's cock was
another thing.

"Oh Krei", he said, "you have such a sweet tight ass."

When Cakac finished with Krrk he donned a harness of an odd sort.

"Krei you've done well... Go to my males and let them rape you. You, madam,
shall now be slung from my belly."

As she was stapped into the harness, feet around his neck and head suspended
below his hind legs, her mouth was forced to a seal against the black
penis.  Golden liqiid flowed into her mouth. She choked but inside a week
she would drinking him like fine wine.

Among her duties she regualrly pleasued Krrk and cleaned her talons as well
as those of the males. Krrk's favorite time to be eaten was just after Cakac
raped her. Her belly swelled with Krei's chicks and, despite cries and
complaints, she was never far from a griffin's cock. The entire arie saw her
as a pleasure doll and they used her even throughout her pregnancy.

