4

This article is excerpted from the Rocky Mountain Pagan Journal.
Each issue of the Rocky Mountain Pagan Journal is published by
High Plains Arts and Sciences; P.O. Box 620604, Littleton Co., 
80123, a Colorado Non-Profit Corporation, under a Public Domain
Copyright, which entitles any person or group of persons to 
reproduce, in any form whatsoever, any material contained therein
without restriction, so long as articles are not condensed or 
abbreviated in any fashion, and credit is given the original
author.!

IN GRANDMOTHER'S LAP

        This seems like a fairly good time of year to be talking
about divination.  What is it, why do we do it, and what's in it
for us?  Lots of people think it's a way of avoiding
responsibility - if the future is preordained, we might as well
go back to bed.

        Of course, that's not it at all.  Divination is the use of
any one of several methods to obtain information which is not
directly accessible to the conscious mind of the person asking
the question.  Whether you use cards, crystals, a pendulum, ink,
[PAUSE]       lead, dice, the flight of birds or anything else, what you are
really doing is opening your end of a channel to higher wisdom. 
I consider the "actual" source of that wisdom irrelevant and
immaterial; it could be one's own subconscious, the collective
unconscious, the Gods' will, telepathic insight, or a big
computer buried in the Balkans.  It's still additional
information which is not as tainted by ego and intellect's
limitations as most.

        So what do we do with it?  The same things we do with any
other information; add it to what we already know and develop a
synthesis that can help us do our decision-making.  The easiest
way to analyze the process is with a concrete (well, maybe jello)
example:

        A young man has been between relationships for some time. 
He wants very much to link up with the great love of his life,
but is not aware of anyone on the horizon.  He is putting himself
in a position to meet new people, presenting himself as
attractively as he can, and generally taking care of business,
but no results.  He has to decide whether to take a work-related
course at night or not.  It will take a lot of time and there are
not likely to be any women attending.  His progressed horoscope
is neutral.  He gets his cards read.  They say:
[PAUSE]       
1.Nothing at all about love, but a lot about skilled craftsman-
ship and satisfaction through work.  He decides to relax and wait
for a better time, takes the course, and is rewarded with a
modest promotion which enhances his satisfaction with his job.

2.A lot about increasing social activities, leading to the start
of a new romance, leading to great happiness and satisfaction
after some difficulties are resolved.  He does not take the
course, and meets a really nice interesting lady at a party given
by a friend (which he couldn't have attended had he taken the
course).


3.That he is overlooking sources of emotional gratification in
his current situation.  Given the information, he starts looking
around and discovers that one of his quieter friends is a really
thoughtful and insightful person who helps him learn to know
himself better, and that a young cousin needs a mentor and this
relationship gives him a lot of pleasure and fulfillment.  He
begins to feel much more ready for a good relationship, and much
less impatient to have one start.

        These examples illustrate the point made above; divination
[PAUSE]       provides you with choices, and you take the consequences, no
matter what the oracles say.  Treat them with respect, not
adoration or blind compliance, and may they always show you the
truth.

Blessed Be,
The Spinster Aunt  ...from RMPJ 12/86



Time Left - 09:06:07
<GFile> <31> <Occult -- The Sequel> : 