
 
                THE FIRST BOOK OF DRUWYDDS
 
                        As compiled by
 
                       Kanamanah, Covi
 
                      Circa, 1989 D.C.E.
 
                        (HUA 21,753)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             Dedicated to the many whom fell in
 
                ANGLESEA and THE BAY OF RIGA
 
                        (CIRCA 1288)
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         The Druwydds rise is only marked by time.
 
  
             THREE PRECEPTS OF THE DRUWYDD
 
1. That which you hold sacred within you, you shall worship.
   Be it The God, Gods, Goddess, or none.
 
2. That you will maliciously harm none, unprevoked.
 
3. You shall practice courage in all things.
 
             TWO MANDATES FOR THE DRUWYDD
 
1. All have the right to decide for themselves, always.
 
2. The right of privacy is sacred, always.
 
     The Precepts and Mandates as set forth are immutable nor
can they be changed by the hand, nor word.
     Interpretation is simple. Each word has only one meaning
and says not else. To twist the words is to LIE to one's
self. The LIE is forbidden.
 
     One of the responsibilities of the Druwydd is that of
"Keeper of The Law". How best to practice, than to keep a
strict, personal code of conduct.
 
     The best ratio for teaching is one to one, for the
given sixteen years. An example is valued more than ten
thousand words.
 
     Listening is, as all else, an art form, of great
meaning.
 
     To perceive the Whole is a task of never ending labor,
of the mind. To perceive a small part, is a joy for
celebration.
 
     The sought after meaning of life lays in the shadows of
the living of it. To see into the shadows is to look upon
yourself.
 
     Fifty steps to take. Fourty-nine tasks to do and the
knowing has only begun.
 
     Enlightenment? Where does it lay? Within or without. We
shall see.
 
 
 
     The generation of the Druwydd is eighty years-not the
 
short twenty years of man's counting.
 
     Remembering that no zero exists in the Old Way of
 
numbers.
 
     To see, to perceive, to believe, to know.
 
     To feel, to perceive, to know, to believe.
 
     The whole as parts, the parts as wholes.
 
     The part as one, the sum as one.
 
     The untrained eye cannot see within nor without.
 
     To see within, to see without.
 
                     Life so full,
 
             Life so sweet,
 
     To feel,
 
             To know,
 
                     So complete.
 
                                      Times great realm,
 
                     Streams on,
 
             Above our heads,
 
     Beneath our feet.
 
             As the Mother moves,
 
                     Her children play,
 
                             In their eyes,
 
                                      Another day.
 
     The dark lies not,
 
             A fearsome thing,
 
                     The colors,
 
                             Of the womb,
 
                                      A caressing.
 
 
 
     Once found and applied to, the teacher cannot refuse
your right to fail-EXCEPT if you be of unsound mind or not
yet of your thirteenth year. EXCEPT the law of the land
demand a greater number of years.
     ALL have the right to fail!
     Know that the making of the Druwydd requires sixteen
years as a minimum time. A maximum time is not set.
     Fifty steps are setforth to make in sixteen years.
     Three years are set for the first nine steps. These
nine steps are for the benefit of the seeker and require no
commitment by the seeker, whom may resign and or leave with
no ill will.
     First commitment is by the teacher,(growth of the
seeker).
     Know that the tenth step requires a commitment from the
seeker.
                         RATIONAL
     Within each of us, humans that is, lies the seed of the
divine. Each in our own individual way, no two of us are
exactly alike, perceiving the world that surrounds us
differently. All gathering experiences unique to the
individual.
     In turn each of us stores these unique experiences in
our individual memories and these stored, unique memories
condition our individual psychological and physical reactions
to any given set of conditions or influences.
     Many of our most deeply rooted responses, those least
understood by ourselves, are or may be experiences gained
prior to leaving the womb or in the first six months of life
outside our mother's body.
     To many of these inbuilt responses are negative in
aspect and content.
     Unfortunately there are no universal panaceas. No
cures that can be applied to human kind, as a whole, with
predictable, calculated results, guaranteed.
     Today is a paradox of constantly changing, evolving
sciences. Medicine, Psychology, Physics, Chemistry, are all in
a constant state of change.
     "Today's Truth is Tomorrow's Lie."
     With so much of our world in a constant state of flux,
how can we as individuals hope to maintain control our own
lives.
     To blindly strike out on a path of change from within,
without a cohesive plan is a dangerous thing to do.
     That is like destroying a political system without a
comprehensive, well thought-out replacement. Change for the
sake of change is not a workable plan.
     To follow a path by virtue of blind faith in itself is
self destructive.
     Hind-sight is about 80%. Nothing we do is 100%.
 
