




  O.K., you asked for it. Here it is. Please read the following very
carefully and, preferably, with the King James Bible and other "versions"
(e.g., NIV, NASB, RSV, etc.) side-by-side, so you can see these for
yourself.

          Keep in mind that Satan HATES the Word of God and has continually
attacked it throughout history, ever since the first time He questioned it
(Genesis 3:1) and then outright DENIED it (Genesis 3:4). He is "that old
serpent" (Revelation 20:2), which is "more subtle than any beast of the
field which the LORD God had made" (Genesis 3:1).  So, if some of these
seem to be very SUBTLE differences--well, that's what Satan SPECIALIZES in!

          Also, many people think the King James Bible is a CATHOLIC Bible.
No, it is a PURITAN REFORMATION Bible. There were Catholics and Anglicans
on the 1611 translation committee, to be sure, but their influence was
completely overshadowed by that of the Puritans on the committee.

          Oddly enough, it is the MODERN versions which are the "CATHOLIC
Bibles"! Let me illustrate:

          There are literally hundreds of Greek manuscripts of the Bible
still in existence. Most of them fall into two groups--those which
originated from Antioch, Syria (the "Byzantine" group) and those which
originated from Alexandria, Egypt (the "Alexandrian" group). Without known
exception, the "modern" versions--which began appearing around 1880, and
now number more than 100 in the English language--use the "Alexandrian"
group manuscripts for their primary readings.

          Of these "Alexandrian" manuscripts, two--the Codex Sinaiticus and
the Codex Vaticanus (Vaticanus--Vatican, get it?)--are the most famous. The
Codex Sinaiticus was a REJECTED Greek manuscript discovered in an ancient
TRASHCAN by an archeologist on an excavation on the Sinai Peninsula! I
repeat--it was discarded as TRASH! I guess that's because that's what it
IS!

          The Codex Vaticanus--the most complete of the two--was supposedly
locked away in a vault in the Vatican for hundreds of years, until it was
OPENED by the Pope in the late 19th Century and released to the public.
That's when the "modern" versions started appearing.  They're from the
VATICAN; they're CATHOLIC!

          Now, in Psalm 12:6,7, we read: "The WORDS of the Lord are PURE
words: as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times.  Thou
shalt KEEP them, O LORD; thou shalt PRESERVE them from this generation FOR
EVER." Notice that "words" is plural; we're not talking about THOUGHTS, or
MEANINGS, or SUM TOTALS; we're talking about WORDS! God promised to
preserve the individual WORDS!

          Another passage, Jesus speaking in Matthew 24:35: "Heaven and
earth shall pass away, but my WORDS shall not pass away." And there are
other examples.

          So, you should see by now that God promised to preserve His Word
at the level of the individual WORDS. This means that the doctrine of the
PRESERVATION of the Word of God is just as Scriptural and valid as the
doctrine of the INSPIRATION of the Word of God.
        
  And if God is true, then that "line of PRESERVATION" must exist
somewhere. Where is it?
        
  There are HUNDREDS of verses in which the "modern" versions differ with
the text of the King James. Of these, there are some 66 instances where the
differences amount to MAJOR CHANGES IN DOCTRINE!
        
  So you take your pick on where you think God has preserved His words.
        
MATTHEW 1:25
        
King James reading: "And knew her not till she had brought forth her
firstborn son: and he called his name JESUS."
        
Modern versions: Take out the word "firstborn," in accordance with the
Catholic doctrine of the perpetual virginity of Mary.
        
It is believed Mary NEVER had any children by natural means; but that's NOT
TRUE. After Jesus, she had SEVERAL children by her husband Joseph (Mark
6:3)--sons AND daughters. She did NOT remain a virgin!
        
Subtle, isn't it? Yet clearly a word has been removed! And, if the  curse
mentioned in Revelation 22:19 refers to the whole Bible, then something's a
little WACKY here!
        
MATTHEW 5:22

        King James reading: "But I say unto you, That whosoever is angry
with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment."
        
Modern versions: Take out the phrase "without a cause"...makes the Lord
Jesus a sinner.
        
Did Jesus ever get angry? You bet! Practically ALL of Matthew 23 is His
furious tirade against the scribes and Pharisees. He "had looked round
about on them with ANGER" (Mark 3:5). And the most FAMOUS accounts of His
anger are when He drove the moneychangers out of the Temple--not ONCE, but
TWICE (Matthew 21:12,13 and John 2:14-16)
        
But, according to these "modern" Bibles, that put Him in danger of the
judgment! What a lie! Our Lord "knew no sin" (II Corinthians 5:21); he "did
no sin" (I Peter 2:22). He's the ONLY person who EVER lived who NEVER
SINNED!
        
Once again, someone has tampered with your Bible--right under your nose.
        
MARK 1:2,3
        
King James reading: "As it is written in the prophets, Behold, I send my
messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. The
voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make
his paths straight."
       
Modern versions: Remove "the prophets" and replace with "Isaiah the
prophet."
        
That's WRONG! Mark 1:3 is indeed a quote of Isaiah (40:3)--BUT NOT MARK
1:2! That's from a different prophet entirely--Malachi 3:1.
        
The King James is more accurate; "the prophets" means more than one
prophet! So, if you have any other Bible than the King James, you've  got a
Bible with a mistake in it! But in the King James, there just ain't no
error!
        
LUKE 2:33
        
King James reading: "And Joseph and his mother marvelled at those things
which were spoken of him."
        
Modern versions: Take out "Joseph and his mother" and replace with "His
father and mother."
        
Wait a minute! That's a LIE! Joseph wasn't Jesus' father; GOD was! Joseph
had nothing to do with bringing the Lord Jesus into the world; He was
conceived by the Holy Ghost and born of the virgin Mary without a man in
it!
        
But not according to the "modern" versions. So far we have seen the
accuracy of the Scriptures attacked, as well as the virgin birth of the
Lord Jesus and His sinless perfection, played down. I wonder what else
we'll come up with?
        
LUKE 23:42
        
King James reading: "And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou
comest into thy kingdom."
        
Modern versions: Take out "Lord" and have the malefactor addressing Him
simply as "Jesus."
        
This may not seem like much to you, but it DOES attack the Lordship of
Jesus Christ. Did you know that NONE of His disciples ever addressed Him as
"Jesus"? He was ALWAYS called "Lord" or "Master" by those who loved Him.
"Whosoever shall call upon the name of the LORD shall be saved" (Romans
10:13); "That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the LORD Jesus, and
shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou
shalt be saved" (Romans 10:9); "Believe on the LORD Jesus Christ, and thou
shalt be saved" (Acts 16:31).
        
Mike VDS suggested that Mr. Morris  might have a "blinding light"
experience like Paul of Tarsus'. I pray that happens some day; if it DOES,
it will NOT happen without Mr. Morris saying to Jesus, "Who art thou,
LORD?" (Acts 9:5).
        
JOHN 1:18
        
King James reading: "No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten
Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him."
        
Modern versions: Replace "the only begotten Son" with "the only begotten
God." This denies trinitarian doctrine; it's in accordance with some cult
teachings that Jesus Christ was not co-equal with God the Father in the
Holy Trinity, but rather some "lesser deity" who was a created being.
        
In Koine Greek, the word for "beget" is defined "to cause to come into
existence." That's JUST NOT TRUE of the Lord Jesus Christ; He was NEVER
created! He is ETERNAL! He ALWAYS has existed. John 1:2: "The same was in
the beginning with God." The beginning of WHAT? The beginning of
EVERYTHING!!
        
But His body was created and prepared for Him when He came to earth
(Hebrews 10:5).
        
As God of very God, the only living God, Jehovah Himself, He is the "Lamb
slain from the foundation of the world" (Revelation 13:8). But as the only
begotten Son of God, the Father said, "Thou art my Son; this day have I
begotten thee" (Psalms 2:7; Hebrews 1:5; Hebrews 5:5).
        
Oh, yeah? And what day was that, Lord? He was "declared to be the Son of
God with power...BY THE RESURRECTION FROM THE DEAD!" (Romans 1:4).
        
Don't let these "modern" versions fool you!
                   
JOHN 3:13
        
King James reading: "And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that
came down from heaven, even the Son of man which is in heaven."
        
Modern versions: Take out "which is in heaven," thus attacking the
omnipresence of the Lord Jesus Christ.
        
Jesus is the ONLY person who ever lived who could be in TWO places at the
same time. Why? Because He is God (John 1:1), and God is EVERYWHERE (Psalms
139:8).
        
Now, who would want you to believe otherwise? Perhaps "the god of this
world" (II Corinthians 4:4)?
        
JOHN 7:8

        King James reading: "Go ye up unto this feast: I go not up yet unto
this feast; for my time is not yet full come."
        
Modern versions: Leave out the little word "yet," which makes a liar out of
Jesus, because He did INDEED go up to the feast a while later (John 7:10).
        
Again, His sinless perfection has been attacked--with ONE LITTLE WORD LEFT
OUT!
        
Furthermore, if the Lord cannot be relied upon to tell the truth to His
earthly brothers (Mary and Joseph's kids, remember?), then how do you know
He's telling the truth when He says, "I am the way, the truth, and the
life; no man cometh unto the Father, but by me" (John 14:6)? Answer: You
DON'T!
        
To its credit, the NIV does include the word "yet" in its text. But, to its
shame, it leaves doubt about whether it BELONGS there with a footnote that
says: "Some early manuscripts do not have 'yet.'" Wonder which ones? Only
TWO--the Codices Sinaiticus and Vaticanus--the "trashy" one and the
Catholic one, remember?
        
MATTHEW 8:2; MATTHEW 9:18; MATTHEW 15:25; MARK 5:6
        
In each of these instances, the King James says somebody came to the Lord
Jesus and "worshipped Him."
        
But not in the "modern" versions! There, they simply "knelt" or "bowed
down" before Him.
        
HEY! There's a DIFFERENCE between merely "kneeling" before somebody and
WORSHIPPING somebody! In Asian cultures, it's still common practice to
lower yourself before someone--as a token of RESPECT, not of WORSHIP!
        
So, which is it? Was the Lord Jesus worshipped, or was He just
"respected"--given lip service?
        
I TIMOTHY 3:16
        
King James reading: "And without controversy great is the mystery of
godliness: God was manifest in the flesh, justified in the Spirit, seen of
angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up
into glory."
        
Modern versions: Replace "God" with "He," thus playing down His deity.
        
Who was "manifest in the flesh?" The Lord Jesus? Yes, that's who we're
talking about here. But so were YOU! So was I! EVERY HUMAN BEING was
manifest in the flesh at some point--the POINT of CONCEPTION (you know,
where the coastline of California turns northward?--grin--). It means
NOTHING that "He was manifest in the flesh"; it means EVERYTHING that GOD
was manifest in the flesh! That's the point! God became man. You can't get
saved and go to heaven unless you BELIEVE that!
        
Don't you see? There is no Gospel, there is no Good News, unless GOD was
manifest in the flesh. The Gospel is of "none effect" without the Word of
God. In fact, people have to get born again "by the word of God" (I Peter
1:23). And someone hates the Word of God so much that he's not above
tampering with it--because he wants it destroyed.
        
I PETER 3:18
        
King James reading: "For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just
for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the
flesh, but quickened by the Spirit."
        
Modern versions: Replace "quickened by the Spirit" with "made alive IN the
spirit," thus denying the bodily resurrection and going with the cult
teaching that Jesus' spirit was resurrected--not His body.
        
The NIV has "by the Spirit" in its main text but allows "in the spirit" as
an alternate reading in the footnotes.
        
The passage is talking about Jesus being quickened by the Holy Spirit. The
King James correctly capitalizes the word "Spirit." Someone is playing down
the Holy Spirit! Whoever he is, he's got a dubious future: "But he that
shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath NEVER forgiveness, but is in
danger of eternal damnation" (Mark 3:29).
                           
I JOHN 5:7
        
A whole VERSE is taken out here!
        
King James reading: "For there are three that bear record in heaven, the
Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost: and these three are one."
        
The "modern" versions don't even HAVE this verse. Naturally! It's one of
the clearest presentations of trinitarian theology in the Bible.
        
MARK 16:9-20 and JOHN 7:53--8:11
        
TWO WHOLE PASSAGES CUT OUT!
        
The New American Standard Version places these two passages in brackets
with the footnote explanation: "Not found in most of the old manuscripts."
And the NIV allows them in the text but with the subtitle, "The earliest
and most reliable manuscripts and  other ancient witnesses do not have..."
        
That's a LIE! The ONLY two manuscripts which omit these passages are--do I
have to tell you?--Codices Sinaiticus and Vaticanus.
        
MATTHEW 17:21
        
Would you like to know how to cast out a devil?
        
Well, then, read the King James Bible. This verse is BRACKETED as not being
RELIABLE in the NASV, and it isn't even FOUND in the text of the NIV. What
does it say?
        
King James reading: "Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and
fasting."
        
Now, who do you suppose would like to prevent you from casting out a devil
from someone? Jesus said, "If Satan cast out Satan, he is divided against
himself; how shall then his kingdom stand?" (Matthew 12:26).
        
"All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for
doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness:
That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto ALL GOOD
WORKS" (II Timothy 3:16,17).
        
"Throughly furnished unto all good works"? Is casting a devil out of some
possessed and tormented person a good work? Well, if you're using any Bible
other than the King James--you will NOT be furnished to do THAT good work!
        
ISAIAH 14:12
        
One final example, this one from the Old Testament. The modern versions
rarely tamper here, because the traditional Hebrew Masoretic reading of the
Old Testament has been accepted VERBATIM by Jewish rabbis for over 2,000
years. But the modern versions still mess around in a few places where they
ought not to mess around. But when you realize who's behind all this,
you're not surprised!
        
Here's some evidence which I believe points to the identity of the one
behind all of this tampering with the Word of God. Thanks to the worldwide
distribution of the King James Bible over the past 378 years, it is
commonly known that Satan's name as an "angel of light" in heaven prior to
his fall from same was "Lucifer." Reading this verse in the King James,
there is no doubt about the subject matter!
        
But where is the name "Lucifer" in any of the modern versions? It's GONE!
That old serpent had his name removed. You can no longer clearly see this
as a reference to Satan.
        
I wonder why?
        
CONCLUSION
        
I've done my best to try to present the evidence to you. I came to the
conclusion that the King James Bible is the Word of God on my knees three
years ago. I prayed to the FINAL AUTHORITY HIMSELF for the answer--and
spent all night doing it.
        
Why don't you try that now yourself? Who is your "Final Authority?"



                                                                                               