--->|<-------------------------------------------------------------------------
<---|---> File: GREYBOOK.TXT
  <-|-> Info: What it means to be Psychick Youth
<---|---> From: ALamut 415.431.7541 1:125/51 TOPYnet Host
--->|<-------------------------------------------------------------------------
[This file may not be used for monetary gain in any way]

THOSE WHO DO NOT REMEMBER THEE PAST ARE CONDEMNED TO REPEAT IT

An Introduction to thee Temple ov Psychick Youth.

Thee Temple strives to end personal laziness and engender discipline. To
focus thee Will on one's true desires, in thee belief, gathered from
experience that this maximizes and makes happen all those things that one
wants in every area ov life. Explore daily your deepest desires, fantasies
and motives, gradually focussing on what you would like to happen in a
perfect world, a perfect situation, taking away all restrictions and
practical considerations, what you'd REALLY want. Then decide to try and DO
it. Thee mere visualization ov that true goal begins thee process that
makes it happen. Clean out thee trappings and debris ov compromise, ov what
you've been told is REASONABLE for a person in your circumstances. Be clear
in admitting your real desires. Discard all irrelevancies. Ask yourself who
you want as friends, if you need or want to work, what you want to eat.
Check and re-check everything deeper and deeper, more and more precisely to
get closer and ultimately integrate with your REAL Self. Once you are
focussed on your self internally, thee external aspects ov your life will
fall into place. They have to. Sceptics will say they simply don't believe
this Psychick process works, but it does. It is thee Key to thee Temple.

INTRODUCTION We attempt to commune with spirits, to be friends with thee
Human Spirit. We care for thee infinite significance ov thee individual
spirit and personal moral responsibility and its development through
experience. We believe in thee total significance ov thee individual
discovered though familiarity with thee deepest instincts and explorations
ov destiny outside thee traps ov time. We intend to engender moral freedom,
spiritual freedom, sexual freedom, and personal independence, to insist
upon personal choose in all things. We accept responsibility. Gladly and
with excitement and deliberate ignorance ov thee outcoum. We revel in
mystery and surprise. We bury our selves in challenge and dreams. We
embrace all possibilities and impossibilities with joy and excitement. We
accept thee true nature ov life, thee way thee world is. Flexible and
shifting, in flux every moment, shaped by parallel levels that accept
contradiction and inconsistency as inviolate qualities that generate
mystery and mastery. We direct ourselves wherever we chose to go with joy
and abandon. A New Era ov thee Magickal interpretation ov thee World and
existing in it is couming. An interpretation in terms ov Will and
Imagination fueled by contact with intuition and instinct.

RESPONSIBILITY

Do you want to be part ov a world ov sleeping people? Do you want to imbibe
thee drug ov thee commonplace? Will you be forever addicted to
self-restriction?

Established orthodoxies and dogmas, conditioned interpretations ov living,
regard thee material world as reality whilst pretending to deal with thee
spirit or existence. They conceive and propagate evolution and thinking as
purely physical, their control ov our lives and visions as sacrosanct.
Religion has privately altered to work from a position that accept itself
as totally discredited by science. All establishment modes ov control and
affiliation, both religious and political, rely upon and revolve around
unquestioning faith and dogma, unquestioning acceptance ov their
inalienable right to assume professional responsibility for our actions
upon their shoulders. We are told we are weak, incapable ov grasping scale,
afraid ov ourselves and desperate to push responsibility for all events in
our lifes onto them. We are insistency trained to accept our corporeal
existence as hopeless in itself, to becoum subservient to thee greater
good. We are perpetually conditioned, encouraged, and blackmailed into
self-restriction into narrower and narrower perceptions ov ourselves, our
own importance, our own potential and our own experience. We are trained to
ignore thee evidence ov our senses and experience and to feel guilt when we
glimpse sense derived visions ov ourselves as free spirits.

Thee voluntary relinquishing ov responsibility for our lives and actions is
one ov thee greatest enemies ov our time.

Our enemies are flat. Our enemies are three-dimensional. Our enemies are
continuity and coherence. Our enemies are restriction and confinement. Our
enemies are guilt and fear. Our enemies are material. Our enemies are
direction and fact. Our enemies are Because.

We are not seeking followers, we are seeking collaborators, Individuals for
a visionary Psychick alliance.

Thee Temple ov Psychick Youth 23 June 82 Era Maximus 003Adeptus

FOCUSING THEE WILL What we suggest next is NOT instruction. It is method. A
method which can be used by anyone, alone or with friends, regardless ov
any material or social circumstances. A method to be used by thee
individual to break through to their deeper consciousness, where fantasies
ambitions and real wishes reside, thee place where all dreams meet. People
can most readily identify and relate to dreams that are sexual, and that is
thee primary reason for our choice ov sex as a vehicle for this method to
begin with. Our interest is therefore PRACTICAL. In our experience,
although they might deny it, most people never ask themselves what hey
really want, or simply say they don't know. But it is only once a person
has learned to identify their true desires in an imaginary perfect world,
where guilt and retribution are suspended, that they can hope to reach
them.

SEX- ov all thee things that people do, at home and in private, usually
with close friends, sex alone is subject to extraordinary interference and
control from outside forces. This is no accident. They recognize its power.
Even if only for a few moments, Individuals can release a power and energy
from within that renders any system ov society, or regime, meaningless. It
is a liberator. Even an individual in solitary confinement can indulge in
it and in their fantasies travel into any situation and possibility
unfettered, and, at thee moment o orgasm itself, be both blissfully
vulnerable and undeniably free, elsewhere, filled with energy. Accordingly
from thee moment ov birth pressure is exerted upon everyone to limit their
release and enjoyment ov this power. To limit and restrict thee immense
potential all ov us were born with, into narrow and non-threatening forms
ov behavior, sexual and otherwise. Ov course thee nature ov this pressure
varies by place and era. When specific laws becoum unenforceable for a
time, more subtle methods are used; social attitudes, anxiety, guilt, fear
ov ridicule and failure are all exploited, and diseases that attack only
those who indulge in specific sexual activities are introduced. Most give
in to this pressure in one way or another, permanently crippling their
individual growth. We believe that it is essential, if we are to survive
and progress, that we first recognize, accept and ultimately reach our true
sexual desires. This not only satisfies thee body and consolidates thee
spirit but acts as an example for all our goals in every area ov life, and
attacks at thee root ov control. Control begins with sexuality, so it seems
crucial to begin at this universally applicable point and develop our
awareness from there. In our culture people have internalized alienating
stereotypes which dictate their sexual and social interactions. This makes
men agreeable to orders ov authority figures and keeps women in line with
accepted notions ov propriety and authority and binds up their sexual
desire so that they will accept a generally subordinate role to men. Thee
latter is propagated by those who are empowered by thee patriarchal lineage
which has been handed down thru thee ages, whose fear ov thee unknown, - in
this case women and feminine characteristics, has been countered by a
bulwark ov dogma which aims at controlling and/or degrading all those
forces which they see as a threat to their reign. By studying thee
oppression ov women through thee ages we can see in a nutshell thee nature,
methods and manifestations ov oppressions it is used in any society in any
age against those who are pro-life and expanding. But on a broad scale
encompassing both sexes thee repression ov sexual instincts functions to
make people submissive and inclined to irrational behavior and thus
paralyzes their rebellious potential. On a deeply personal level where we
enter thee domain ov such energies which might be called 'magickal', thee
effect ov such conditioning is no less significant. Psychic energy and
sexual energy are different names for thee same force: by ridding ourselves
ov restrictions and thee forms ov control which have been imposed on us we
can coum into our own on more planes than one. Most initiates ov thee
Temple believe there is a power and effect released by an orgasm, focussed
through Will, that enhances not only thee chances ov Self-fulfillment and
contentment but also thee achievement ov creative goals: that thee strength
ov this process forces thee hand ov chance and brings closer thee object ov
your desire.

RITUAL - Throughout history man has used ritual to achieve spiritual
results from simple physical actions. Recently its use has been limited to
established religious dogmas, and since many if not all ov these have
fallen into disrepute or have coum to be seen as irrelevant, so too has
thee use ov ritual, but its use is far older and far more universal than
any organized church. Any ritual is a way on concentrating and focussing
those taking part on a particular aim or idea. It is essential only that
thee techniques employed have meaning and vitality for thee participants.
Seen without this belief, as many recorded rituals ov thee past are now,
thee process can seem simply ridiculous, and thee mechanical repetition ov
them certainly would be. Initiates ov thee Temple ov Psychick Youth have
developed personal methods or rituals, not only to strengthen and refine
their inner objectives, both sexual and practical, but also to provide a
fertile basis for those objectives to grow and becoum real. Although we
have no vested interest in others following this example, or contacting
thee Temple, it is possible that some people may wish to do so. Below are
instructions on how to do this. Many people feel unwilling or unable to put
our suggestions into practice, due to thee effectiveness ov social
conditioning. Thee Temple will only draw initiates from those who can
demonstrate in thee manner indicated their resistance to this conditioning,
and their commitment to thee ideas ov thee Temple.

THEE SIGIL OV 3 LIQUIDS

This ritual should be performed alone, on thee 23rd ov thee month,
beginning at 23.00 hours, in a place where you will have no interruptions
or distractions. Within thee limits ov what is practical, you should
arrange thee environment and atmosphere to be as conducive as possible to
thee execution ov this Sigil for yourself. If at all possible a candle(s)
should be thee only source ov light. This Sigil must be performed naked.
One ov thee aims ov thee ritual is to concentrate your attention and energy
on your most intense sexual fantasy. To do this you must first decide what
it is and write it down on a piece ov paper. It should be what you think
would generate in you thee maximum possible excitement, pleasure and
fulfillment, regardless ov thee identity, sex or age ov those who take part
with you, alive and guiltless. It is essential to be completely honest with
yourself, and not write something because you think it might satisfy other
people - remember thee purpose ov thee Sigil is to really make these things
happen. Once you have written thee fantasy on thee piece ov paper, you have
to make thee paper special. To do this it must be touched by thee three
liquids ov thee body. That is, spit, blood, and OV, which is thee Temple
name for thee fluids obtained by masturbation - semen from thee male and
lubrication from thee female. For example, first let a few drops ov spit
fall onto thee page, next a few drops ov blood. You must use some kind ov
sharp and clean instrument to do this. Remember only a small quantity is
required and you should use your common sense in terms ov thee method
employed and ov hygiene both before and afterwards. Lastly, and in any way
that is most pleasurable to you, bring yourself to orgasm and allow thee OV
to touch thee paper. While you are doing this concentrate not only on thee
inscribed fantasy, but also on thee idea ov thee Temple and that fact that
doing this sigil is inevitably bringing you closer to what you really want.
You must then attach a lock ov hair from your head and also some ov your
pubic hair to thee paper. Remember these 2 hair types and 3 liquids may be
incorporated on thee Sigil Paper in any manner that feels appropriate to
thee thoughts thereon described. Thee basic actions outlined above should
not be seen as a limitation. Leave thee Sigil Paper overnight to dry in a
safe place. On thee next day send it to thee Temple. You do not have to
attach your name to thee Sigil Paper if you don't want to. All submission
to thee Temple will remain at all times absolutely confidential, and will
be stored in a locked vault. All applicants who complete this
satisfactorily will receive personal encouragement, suggestions and
direction for thee subsequent months ritual. Completion ov 23 such monthly
rituals qualifies one as a full initiate ov thee Temple. NOTE - if you
decide to do this Sigil, thee responsibility rests entirely with you. You
will gain from it, not thee Temple. Thee Temple can not accept any claims
against it, arising from thee consequences ov thee Sigil or any related
matters. Thee Sigil can only be recommended to those who have reached thee
legal age ov consent in thee country in which they live.

TELEVISION In modern society most people are not able to tolerate
concentrated religious thought. This is hardly surprising. Most religious
and political groups ov thee last two centuries have stressed, among other
things, thee superiority ov their leaders and thee inferiority ov thee
individual. By now thee absurdity ov this thinking has becoum apparent to
most people, and a general resistance to any form ov religious dogma has
developed. There are a number ov groups and cult religions who are
repeating thee old formulas ov adoration ov their leaders and thee
relinquishing ov thee cult's followers ov any responsibility for their own
lives, but these are in thee minority. By and large people have lost faith
in any spiritual teaching whatsoever, and have nothing with which to
replace it. If we are to be able to suggest even guidelines in this area,
it most be done without dogma and in ways that people will understand.
Pleasure has becoum something which people do not seek after themselves,
but have presented to them in simulated forms through diverse mediae, thus
building up a frustrating and paradoxical situation where an inherently
active form ov expression has becoum a passive pastime and thee results:
expression becoums depression.

People are constantly being titillated through advertisements and other
forms ov propaganda by a subtle use ov subliminal seduction and because ov
thee one-sided nature ov thee affair thee out coum is inevitably
frustration. When pleasures course is inhibited it has thee characteristic
ov turning into unpleasure. When in spite ov continual high excitation a
person is not able to experience final gratification a fear eventually
develops, not only ov thee final gratification but also ov thee excitation
which precedes it. This will effectively divorce thee individual from his
or her true feelings and instincts.

A long exposure to Televisualized Realty will have thee effect ov
underlining peoples notions about their own inadequacy and on an
unconscious level they will have to deal with second-hand traumas and
complexes, a task made all thee more difficult for thee fact that although
thee pseudo-experiences achieve their relevance by being linked up with
thee individuals own experiences, that link is mostly superficial and
difficult to trace. Television has not yet been recognized as man's latest
sensory apparatus.

Thee manipulation and thee use made ov thee Sexual Instinct through visual
media, such as Television and films has turned a large portion ov people
into unknowing fetishists: they are investing sexual energy in images and
objects without knowing it and are thus unable to reclaim and make use ov
it, - as thee magickal use ov a fetish dictates. An essentially magickal
act has becoum vampiritic and one-sided. This process breeds a host ov
'Scopophiliacs', people who obtain simulated sexual gratification through
thee process ov watching, where thee illusion ov active doing is obtained
by turning an other person into an object which is subjected to a
controlling gaze. Scopophilia is by definition one ov thee component
instincts ov sexuality which exists as drives independently ov thee
erotogenic zones. Indulging in scopophiliac activity, and people nowadays
hardly seem to have any other choice, can in thee long run result in an
unconscious acceptance ov thee separation between mind and body, sexuality
being denied its natural course and thee fragmented world view which keeps
people from drawing thee right conclusions and seeking active release from
their circumstances is reinforced. Over thee last thirty years TV has been
thee greatest single factor in thee control ov thee attitudes ov thee
people. Even if it was unintentional, which seems unlikely, thee prevailing
view ov thee world as seen by thee writers, producers and controllers ov TV
companies has becoum thee accepted 'norm', to which thee viewer inevitably
compares himself. Ov course thee world presented on TV bears little or no
resemblance to reality, and as a consequence thee viewer is left, not only
with a feeling ov failure, but also ov boredom with this 'perfect' world on
thee screen. Even in thee area ov news and documentary those interests
which shape and control TV everywhere assume that 'the public' cannot cope
with thee whole truth. It is our intention to revers this trend.

We have no desire to ape or emulate thee slick perfection and sterile
technical quality ov traditional professional television, perfect focus is
not perfect content. We deal in implications, exactness ov flow and image
from a subliminal psychick point ov view. It is only by doing this that one
can hope to show life as it really is. All media systems devised by man
enshrine his own limitations ov development and fulfillment, his inner
conflicts, his private fears ov mortality, yet all media, including TV are
nothing but thee decisions ov men. Psychick TV will be activist, a positive
statement ov faith in thee capacity ov man. To cause things hidden in thee
dark to appear and to take thee dark away from them.

Psychick TV is not intended to be a replacement for conventional
programming, but rather thee first step towards a de-programming, without
regard for thee preoccupations ov commercial TV, redundant assumptions
about entertainment and value. At Psychic TV we accept and exploit thee way
TV is used by our generation, as raw material to be used and manipulated by
thee viewer. Dense enough to be interesting over and over yet without
punchlines or obvious focal points to becoum familiar and bored with.

Thee Transmissions we are now producing are intended to be viewed at night,
between thee hours ov midnight and six am. We will not be giving any
advance indication ov thee specific content ov thee Transmissions - rarely
are people aware in advance ov any momentous occurrence in their lives -
but everything in thee recordings will reflect thee way thee world really
is. If they seem to be emphasizing those aspects ov life normally
suppressed or censored as subversive, contentious, disturbing or too
sexual, it is because that suppression is a deliberate attempt to limit
thee knowledge ov thee individual. It is our belief that truth and
information about anything and everything must be made available in every
way possible, if human history is to survive, progress or have any meaning
whatsoever.

TEXTS I & II

I To say in day-to-day life that something is 'obvious' means, more often
than not, that one concedes a note ov truth in exchange for a tolerance ov
thee usual hypocrisy and conditioning. You can, for example, make your
opposite ADMIT as being obvious that there is no such thing as a theory
that is absolutely true; that will not stop them in any way from continuing
to brandish their 'Truths' as before.

Their momentary concession passes by a sordid business in which they buy
their future peace ov mind. A life without questions.

Hence, there is no higher aim than thee OBVIOUS. It is to approach thee
closest to a Truth which we know to be inaccessible but whose gleam we can
see.

Thee Obvious is a protection. Not only does it make people run away, but it
also deceives by its rapid commonness, and by thee fact that in Flat
people's minds, whatever is simple cannot be serious.

II It would be an illusion to think that thee Individual can hide all thee
clues to his Oneness. His task is therefore to see to it that all thee
clues are wrongly interpreted. Thus it is that they may SEEM to indicate a
lack ov individuality and create a feeling ov disappointment rather than
curiosity. This tactic gives us space and protection in thee traps ov
time.

An Individual has many personalities or characters at thee same time or
alternately. (Recent cognitive brain theory supports this.) most people
little by little eliminate thee personalities considered to be dangerous by
their peer group or societal unit and finally keep only one: thee social
personality... one dimensional 'FLAT' people. But other people, called
paradoxically 'Individuals', are always trying to develop all their
personalities, even if there is an internal conflict between them. So we
can clearly see that thee Individualist person logically must use 'WE' to
name himself, whilst thee person who belongs to thee masses must use thee
'I'. Thee first is multi-dimensional, thee second is uni-dimensional.

One ov thee Temple functions is to encourage and support thee development
ov multi-dimensional individuals. Hence our use ov 'WE' in our texts.

Our enemies are Flat.

III Our stress on SELF discipline is important, it links thee internal
methods ov ritual to our approval and suggestion ov other forms ov physical
discipline to compliment thee mental/sexual ones. Hence you will often find
that Initiates ov thee Temple will be engaged in such outside activities as
Marksmanship, Martial Arts, Swimming and so on as an extension ov thee
theory ov maintaining and improving ones Focus and abilities. Thee point is
not thee skill in itself, though we appreciate thee practical nature, in a
society such as ours, ov an ability to defend oneself and be fit, but thee
APPLICATION, thee discipline itself. So one may be poor in terms ov
results, but excellent in terms ov your genuine application to a skill that
requires thought, co-ordination and a degree ov dedication. A synthesis ov
physical action, thought, reflex and an analysis ov both yourself and a
target (real and metaphorical).

FAITH IS FEAR Thee first lesson from which all other grow is thee simplest.
We are mortal. We all die. This is not a morbid wallowing in hopelessness.
It is thee ability to genuinely coum to terms with our physical transience
that liberates us all. many visionary philosophical systems include 'The
Small Death' in their ideas under one name or another. We all die. This
realization truly assimilated can be turned to positive use, in that it
spurs one into action aware at all time is limited and no life span is
certain. Every seconds counts and must count. This realization can also be
used unproductively, crippling an individual man or woman's search for
fulfillment ov all their needs and preventing for all their life a complete
integration ov every aspect ov their character and thoughts. Thee
inevitability ov death can be used by outside forces as a weapon to create
fear. Religions use this weapon more blatantly than any other suppressive
social regulation systems. They use fear ov death to justify Faith. NOTE:
Those who escape thee traps ov Religion through a first stage cynical
knowledge ov thee hypocrisy ov modern society and thee emasculation ov
their individual power to change anything often seek oblivion form this
knowledge, and so they use various drugs (tobacco, alcohol, tranquilizers
and opiates like heroin) as a substitute for Faith. They want to kill time.
Religion wants to side-step time. Both are actions based on Fear. Mankind
spends a constant amount ov energy in self-preservation. Thee very phrase
'self-preservation' implies a threat ov annihilation and is triggered by
fear ov death. So in a very real sense fear ov death is present behind all
normal functioning, it resides permanently in thee subconscious, moulding
our image ov ourselves in relation to an inevitable, inexorable crisis ov
death. But fear ov death could not be constantly present in our day to day
conscious mental functioning, this would be an intolerable burden, as
things are, but to behave 'normally' thee biological organism, thee animal
man represses its knowledge ov death to acquire comfort. As things are, so
must they change. So we are all socially and biologically conditioned to
put away our fear ov death yet in a real paradox we becoum too efficiently
oblivious to this fear in our conscious life. Thee Temple tries to
reconcile all our consciousnesses. To do this embraces thee knowledge ov
our own inevitable death with courage and uses it to justify action and
thee proper use ov time. In actual fact, none ov us know how much time we
have, when we do die it ought to be with Zero Regret. Zero regret is thee
magickal state ov inner balance and calm acceptance ov thee mortality ov
individuals and thee use ov Zero Regret to channel all future action. Thee
prefect state is to be sure that no time is wasted, no energy repressed and
no fear hidden. In old language, we must experience thee small death ov
literally facing ourselves and thee reality ov a temporary metabolism, a
limit on time. Time can be a tool, a liberator, or an oppressor. When we
claim time back for ourselves we are at last learning to be free and
effective. Control needs time like a junkie needs junk. To escape control
we must re-embrace our given time. Initially thee human being has no
apparent alternative but to succumb to a negative appreciation ov death. To
feel fear. Thee brain is genetically programmed to survival and will not
allow itself to believe that it shall cease to exist. Thus, as we have
already seen, thee subconscious mind will seduce thee intellect into
ignoring logic and fact, a condition bordering upon hopelessness. It will
ignore thee lessons ov experience and observation in favour ov an inherited
image ov existence and thee affect ov fear will be repressed. He will
immediately becoum vulnerable to a desire for Hope that bypasses
confronting his subconscious knowledge. religion thrives upon this. It
requires only an act ov blind faith in exchange for guaranteed Hope and
salvation. It denies death and avoids thee facts. In short, Religion turns
away from thee truth, thee Temple turns towards it. If you face yourself,
you face death and in this way only can you re-integrate your entire
character and all ov its levels ov consciousness and perception. This
cannot be stressed too much or too often.

So in Religions all practical thought must be swept aside in a flood ov
faith. Answers becoum word, and facts becoum sins. This thing Faith is thee
foundation ov all Religious thought. So powerful, yet fragile that Faith
must be protected. Protected from doubt, protected from questions, it is
seen as a constant that will not even tolerate thought. It causes, its real
essence, death, are so entrenched in everyone's mind that it has becoum
thee basis ov every society, and so every society has developed a system to
protect it. Dogma. Thee equation, simplified, goes something like this:
Dogma negates thought. Thought is thee enemy ov Faith (therefor thee enemy
ov Society). Individual thought patterns are discouraged in order to
preserve Faith inviolate, to thus preserve Society, to preserve thee status
quo and thee vested interests ov thee keepers ov Faith and Dogma. It is in
this web that Religion meets Politics and they reinforce each other in a
web ov deceit. Those in Power have a personal interest in channeling
individual thought down safe unthreatening avenues geared to thee
production ov materials and services that are to thee 'benefit' ov society,
ov thee 'Greater Good'. In other words you sacrifice your time and your
time is your most precious commodity. When you take yourself back it
becoums priceless. People are deflected from thee theft ov their Time and
trained to produce and consume instead ov how to be engaged in their
habitat and ideas. Politics organizes, Religion directs. From a child ov
five to an adult is a short step. From a new-born baby to a child ov five
is an appalling distance (Tolstoy). religion invades thee child's world. A
child without guilt is thus given guilt. A child without fear is thus given
fear. Thee only salvation offered is through Fath. Faith, it is suggested,
ends death. Thee price ov cheating death through Faith is, ov course,
submission. People who are not satisfied with this situation, people who
want proofs, who wish to develop a system without guilt and fear that
absorbs and uses death as a positive and liberating knowledge are
discouraged, ridiculed, treated with suspicion and often deliberately
misrepresented in thee media. They are after all, a threat to Society to
some degree, they strike at thee core ov thee trick that controls us and so
in a real sense they are dangerous. Thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth is
dedicated to thee reacquisition by individuals ov their allotted time. It
encourages, it does not discourage, it stands as an example ov what is
possible. To be involved is to becoum very special.

With thee passage ov history, Society's control over Individuals is so
subtle it becoums imperceptible, perhaps even genetically inherited. Its
very power lies in thee face that even its figureheads and leaders do not
realize its processes. Control is invisible. Time is invisible. Control is
so able to shroud an individual's perception ov reality in trivia as to
becoum a uniform reality in itself. A reality that cannot ask itself
questions. That cannot even formulate a language capable ov setting
questions that might reveal thee truth. In an age ov collapse and
transition we must find a language. A way out ov thee corner donated to us
by history. Thee human brain must develop, becoum thee next step in
evolution. It is simply; develop our latent neurological power or truly die
as a race. It is a war for survival. Through experiment, through
exploration ov these latent powers, by visionary use ov science and
technology, and by thee integration ov experience, observation and
expression we must revere ourselves. A reality that cannot face itself
becoums an illusion. Cannot be real. We must reject totally thee concept
and use ov Faith, that sham. We must emasculate Religion. Thee 'Universe ov
Magick' is within thee mind ov mankind, thee setting is but an illusion
even to thee thinker. Thee Temple is commited to building a modern network
where people are given back pride in themselves, where destruction becoums
a laughable absurdity to a brain aware ov its infinite and immeasurable
potential. thee Temple is commited to triggering thee next evolutionary
cycle in order to save this flawed but loveable animal man. Thee Temple is
commited to developing a modern functional and inspiring magickal
structure. In engendering at long last thee completely integrated and
effective individual. And this network ov individuals is in turn inevitably
faced with a task ov action to communicate survival and social evolution to
others. We are thee first truly non-aligned and non-mystical philosophy.

Fear breeds Faith. Faith uses Fear. reject Faith, reject Fear, reject
Religions and reject Dogma. Learn to cherish yourself, appreciate intuition
and instinct, Learn to love your questions. Value your Time. Use mortality
to motivate action and a caring, compassionate and concentrated life.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Involvement in Thee Temple ov Psychick Youth requires an active individual,
dedicated towards thee establishment ov a functional system ov magick and a
modern pagan philosophy without recourse to mystification, gods or demons;
but recognizing thee implicit powers ov thee human brain (neuromancy)
linked with guiltless sexuality focussed through Will Structure (Sigils).
Magick empowers thee individual to embrace and realize their dreams and
maximize their natural potential. It is for those with thee courage to
touch themselves. It integrates all levels ov thought in thee first steps
towards final negation ov control and fear.

OUR AIM IS WAKEFULNESS - OUR ENEMY IS DREAMLESS SLEEP.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
WARNING Thee Temple have noticed various assertations and misleading claims
appearing in fanzines and thee press, made by certain personalities,
designed to imply a false interpretation ov our motives, intentions and
internal affairs. BEWARE: any statements you might read or hear made by
people expelled from PsychicTV or Thee Temple ov Psychick Youth. They will
inevitably be coloured by bitterness and resentment, fueled by thee very
character qualities and inconsistencies that initially led to their
expulsion. These people often feel a need for self-justification and are
motivated by concern with their own self esteem and self-image. Equally
beware ov these people attempt s to integrate themselves and appear
friendly. Whilst thee Temple attempts never to enter into a public
discussion ov its policies and decisions, and indeed tries to allow thee
maximum retaining ov pride and saving ov face by any Individuals expelled,
nevertheless thee Temple has in its files documentation to back up its own
version ov any such actions, should thee need arise. We try to be fair, we
try to leave people self-respect, we try to make it easy for Them to adjust
to being expelled. If our silence and our fairness are seen a weakness and
abused, or exploited to damage us all, then we will change our passive
tactics to those ov protection through active truth.

