SOLITAIRE IMBOLE RITUAL
by Micheal Hall
distributed by PAN - the Psychic Awareness Network -
1703-362-1139

Note - by Matrika, co-sysop - this ritual was written by someone I knew
from the Boston MA. area a couple of years back.  It is based on a
combination of the lore of the Wicca and some of the afro-carribean
diaspora traditions of Paganism and Magick.

On your altar should be placed a circle of 13 stones and, within the circle
of stones, a circle of 13 candles.  Within the circle of candles should be
spread some maize - i.e. corn meal - and in that a waxen female candle to
symbolize the Goddess on your altar. On the eastern side of the altar
should be placed a small sheaf of grain with a candle inserted inside it.

You should dress in your usual ceremonail garb for Magickal rites or
skyclad, as you prefer.

Retire to bathe in salt-water (use sea salt) before the ritual.  As you do
so picture the water cleansing the soul and spirit, just as it cleanses the
body.  When you have dressed, annoint yourself with a holy oil.  When you
have prepared yourself, sit in a dim quiet place and light a candle - ONE
THAT IS NOT BEING USED IN THE RITES - and meditate on how at this time of
year the Goddess in her fiery aspect AS LIGHT was welcomed back into the
Temples and the Homes of the land.

Take this candle and walk slowly to your altar.  Place it in the circle of
the 13 candles.   Then light the two altar candles, which are seperate from
the circle of lights also, and the incense.  (Incense should be stick or
powdered incense on charcoal in a swinging burner.)  Then light all the
quarter candles in the 4 directions, starting in the east and going
clockwise.

cast your circle in the usual manner, but Invoke the Goddess with the
following:
"Sacred womb, giver of the secrets of Life,  Mother of all that exists in
the Universe, I ask your guardianship of this gathering and your assistance
in my work.  I am gathered in celebration of your gifts and my work is most
holy. SO MOTE IT BE"

and Invoke the God in the following manner:
"Fire of the sky, guardian of all that exists in the Universe, I ask your
guardianship of this gathering and your assistance in my work.  I am
gathered in celebration of your gifts and my work is most holy.  SO MOTE IT
BE"

(continue with the circle casting if it is not already finished)

Light the 13 candles and then the Goddess candle in the center and say:
"Warm and quickening Light
awaken and bring forth beauty
for thou art my pleasure and my bounty
LORD and LADY
OSiRIS AND ISIS"  (or you may substitute whatever names your circle uses
for the God and the Goddess - or those you personally prefer)

Reflect a moment on the coming of the light and offer up the incense.
say
"O ancient Ones
Timeless Goddess and Sacred King who art
the heralds of springtime and it's bounties
be with me now in celebration
 Hail to Osiris and Isis
 Harvest giver and blessed Lady
 Let this be a time and a place sacred to your power and your beauty
 SO MOTE IT BE"

Light the candle in the sheaf of grain and hold it up with the loaf of
bread in the other hand and say
(or the cakes - whatever you or your tradition uses for the cakes and
wine/juice ceremony)
"My Lord and Lady, as the seed becomes the grain, so the grain becomes the
bread, Mark the everlasting value of our seasons and their changes. "

Break a piece of the bread or cakes off and burn it as an offering in the
central candle.

Then say
" IN the deepest Icy Winter the seed of the Earth lies deep within the womb
of the Great Mother.  The Spring brings the heat of the Father and with
their joining comes new life.  The completion of the cycle brings brings
food to the children of the world.  As I taste the food I shall know the
wisdom of the cycles and be blessed with the food of wisdom throughout my
life"
consecrate cakes and wine/juice in the usual manner and partake of them,
but first raise your chalice or drinking horn and say

"Hail to thee ISIS
 Hail to thee Osiris
 For thou art blessed"

After this commune in meditation with the Lord and lady for a while, then
close the circle in your usual manner.

GOOD IMBOLE





