         MALE IMPOTENCE : THE 80% SOLUTION
         ---------------------------------
Impotence in males, the inability to achieve an errection during sexual
intercourse has been recently founnd to be very highly tied in most 
cases (about 80% of them) to the same cause of heart disease and stroke:
atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries (See The lancet 1:181).
   An erection is accomplished by the work of the penis' blood vessels,
when blood vessels are damaged by atherosclerosis they can't function
proplery. Unfortunately most men are not aware of the connection and
continue to eat the high-fat cholesterol-rich American diet which is the
primary cause of atherosclerosis.
   Besides atherosclerosis, the typical American diet is also responsible
for amny of the other contributing factors to impotence in the male. Too
much dietary fat can lead to obesity, a major cause of Diabetes. Diabetes
not only worsens atherosclerosis but also injures the nerves that 
stimulate an erection. A poor diet also can lead to high blood pressure,
which many doctors will proscribe a medication for (such as Aldomet)
that can cause impotence as a side effect. Consumed fats also can raise
the body's pituary hormone prolactin, which when high supresses the
hormones needed for sexual functioning (elevated prolactin is the cause
of 19 percent of all impotency cases).
   Alchol can cause temporary impotence. Marijuana can raise the prolactin
levels and may also in some cases cause long-term impotency. Some 
perscription ulcer medications also boost prolactin levels. Other medicine
that can cause impotence includes tranquilizers, antidepressants,
anticholinergics, estrogens and other drugs that supress male hormones.
   Actions that can be taken thru diet to cure the problem start with a
low-fat vegeterian regimen centered on starches (such as whole grains,
legumes, pasta, potatoes and bread), vegetables and fruits. Such a diet
provides plennty of carbohydrates, protein and fiber, but avoids
cholesterol completely and limits fat to between 5 and 10 percent of daily
calories. IN contrast, the typical American diet contains 600 milligrams
of cholesterol and is about 40 percent fat.
   Secondly a good regular moderate exercise program, such as walking or
jogging, bicycling, swimming or aerobic dance for 30 to 60 minutes per
day is enough to keep in good physical condition.
   An herbal extract called yohimbine can also be of great aid (according
to the Journal of Urology 137:1168, 1987). Yohimbine, isolated from the
bark of the African yohumbehe tree, appears to work by decreasing the
blood flow out of the penis. Yohimbehe has long been used as a traditional
treatment in Africa for impotence and Western medicine has confirmed its
effectiveness.
   Yohimbine is sold by prescription under the names of Aphrodyne, Yocon
and Yohimex in 5.4 milligram (mg) capsules. Natural food stores carry the
natural bark, which has an unspecified amount of the active ingredient
yohimbine. The usual dosage is 18 mg daily, but one study used 42 mg.
(Journal of Urology 141:1360, 1989). In this trial, 34 percent of men
with Serious physical problems, such as advanced atherosclerosis and
diabetes, were helped. There are no serious side effects reported from 
its use.


