The following two letters are from Jack T Chick regarding John Todd Collins.
These letters contain numerous spelling errors which I have elected to keep
intact just as they appeared in the original.
___________________________________________________________________________



CHICK PUBLICATIONS              June 16, 1978
PO Box 662
Chino, California 91710

To Whom It May Concern:

This letter is in regard to my association with John Todd.

I first met John in 1973.  I found his information on the occult facinating.
We worked together on a Crusaders story entitled, "The Broken Cross."  Since
its publication I know of witches coming to Christ through this story.  A
police captain visited a friend of mine and told him the book was the most
factual he had ever read on the subject.

John Todd began winning young people out of the occult.  His ministry started
growing.  When John took these young people to a church called "Melodyland"
in Southern California, I was told they announced from the platform that no
witch could be saved.  That was disaster to John's ministry.  He was involved
with churches and Full Godpel Businessmen and all of them were of the
charismatic persuasion.  John was promised support that never came.

When attempts were made on John's life, the Christians shied away from him.  
In those years witchcraft was avoided like the plague.  Everything turned 
sour.  No Christian would touch John, so he went back to the only thing he 
knew, the occult.  He and his wife, Sheila, opened up an occult bookstore.

I kept calling John, telling him he was saved, but he believed the Armenian 
doctrine that once he went back to sin he was lost forever.  I kept at him.  
He pushed the occult religion at me, but I wouldn't give up and I told him he 
still belonged to Jesus.  I called him my brother and he told me to stop 
calling him that.  When I almost gave up, John called me and told me that he 
and Sheila had come back to Christ.

John remembered when he was training for the position of a Grand Druid priest 
that a hugh sum of money supposedly was passed from the Illuminati to the 
organization called "Melodyland," and John believes that is why his ministry 
was hit.

Since coming back into Christian work, John has had many attempts on his 
life, verified by his wife.  John is exposing Masonry which has infiltrated 
our churches.  It's an unseen enemy.  John has given me valuable information
on 2 new publications, "Angel of Light" and "Spellbound".  The latter on rock 
music will have a devastating effect on Christian rock music.  I thank God 
John is risking his neck to warn us of the dangers and techniques used by the 
Illuminati.

John was attending Faith Baptist Church in Canoga Park, California.  On my 
word, Pastor Roland Rasmusson helped John get speaking engagements.  John has 
made mistakes from the platform.  It's understandable.  He is in a new line 
of work.  Both John and his wife have used extensive drugs and are still 
suffering from the effects.  Some of the mistakes were deliberately fed to 
John to make him look bad.  I can verify that through his wife, Sheila.

Pastor Rasmusson was caught in a hard place when John quoted the wrong input 
from the platform.  Then, one of his church members was given an old tape to 
re-use.  On it was a message John had made while instructing classes in the 
occult when he had backslidden.  The tape was played to the deacons, and I 
believe pressure was put on Dr. Rasmusson to disassociate himself from John.  
They knew John had been backslidden because he told them that.  I got the 
same material from John on the phone when I was trying to win him back to 
Christ.

I was assured the tape would only be played to the deacons, but since then, 
copies have fallen into various hands, and this is now being used as a club.  
Pastor Rasmusson still calls John his brother and he told me he believes John 
is saved.  When John preaches, pastors tell me of revival and the most 
difficult to reach came to Christ, including Masons.

My question is:  Who is behind John's attackers?  I know the Masons are 
delighted.  So is the Illuminati.  Are the ones attacking John winning souls?  
Why is it aired publicly?  If John goes down because of the pressures from 
Christians, it will be a day of rejoicing for the occult.

I back John up 100% with all his faults.  I know this brother is doing his 
best to advance the kingdom of God.  We must keep one fact in mind.  John is 
not a minister, but a Christian layman sharing what he knows about a very 
explosive subject.  We should be eager to know about what is going on in the 
enemy's camp, and to my knowledge, John Todd is the only one qualified to 
give us that information.  I encourage you to stand with him in the face of 
this onslaught.

JACK T. CHICK, PRESIDENT, Chick Publications, Inc.

_________________________________________________________________

CHICK PUBLICATIONS                 October 26, 1978
PO Box 662
Chino, California 91710

To Whom it May Concern in the Lord:

This letter should be a warning to us on how subtle the enemy can be as an 
angel of light.  I consider John Todd a friend and a brother in Christ.

On Sunday evening, October 22nd, I received a phone call that gunfire had hit 
John's house.  My wife and I drove to his place at about 9 pm.  There were 
five squad cars in front of his house.

John's face was gray.  Someone had fired a shotgun through the baby's window 
aiming at John reading in the front room.  It missed the children sleeping in 
the front bedroom and sprayed through the hall, hitting John's arm and 
breaking part of the front window.  John jumped up, ran to the back of the 
house, and as the man went over the back wall, he responded to John's command 
to halt by firing his shotgun at John.  Todd fired two shots.  Eight 
neighbors saw the man going over the wall.  No one could say this attempt on 
John's life was self-inflicted as they claim the others were.  I saw the 
blasted window, the torn curtains, and the pellet wound in John's arm.  The 
oldest girl, age 6, told me when the shooting started she put the babies on 
the floor to protect them.  What a price to pay for exposing the occult!

New disturbing material has arrived in the mail with letters and newspaper 
clippings covering a period of time when John Todd had pulled away from the 
Lord, from July 1975 until March 1976 and beyond.  In John's defense, I would 
like to give the other side of the story.

As some of you know, when John and Shiela backslid, I called them many times 
trying to get them to come back to the Lord, so I'm familiar with much of 
what happened during this time.  The pressures John Todd faced after working 
with me on "The Broken Cross" in 1974 contributed to his backsliding.  When 
the occult put the heat on John, Christians didn't want to become involved.  
His support vanished.  The incident that broke the camel's back took place in 
the midwest.

A pastor asked John to refurbish an old building which belonged to his 
church, telling John he would use it as a retreat for ex-witches and for drug 
rehabilitation.  John and Shiela put in 18 hours a day plus $2000.00 of their 
own funds as well as their furniture into this place.  The night it was 
finished John said the pastor changed his mind and wanted someone else to run 
it.  And argument took place.  The pastor pushed Shiela and she had a 
miscarriage that night.

Everything was gone.  They headed for Ohio in a Greyhound bus with only two 
suitcases and three boxes of clothing.  They were broke and hungry when they 
reached Shiela's folks.  Because of their past history with the occult in 
that area of Dayton they were not welcomed in the churches.  By now they were 
very bitter.

The occult world would never forgive John Todd for writing "The Broken 
Cross."  He was branded a traitor.  Too many witches got saved reading that 
book.  John's Catholic Landlord, Mr. James Seifer, wanted to invest his money 
either in an adult or an occult bookstore.  He decided on an occult store and 
offered John and Shiela 50% if they'd run it.  They agreed.  This was 
September 9, 1975.  They had gone back into the world.  The Illuminati was 
outraged.  It was like some cheap hood trying to set up a prostitution ring 
in an area controlled by the Mafia.  John Todd, the outcast had moved into 
their territory.  He had to be destroyed.  I used to call the occult store 
and tell them I loved them and that Jesus loved them and wanted them to come 
back to Him.

Now we come to the insidious plot to wipe out John Todd as I believe it 
happened.  Most of the people involved were directly tied to the Illuminati 
via the pope of the occult called Gavin Frost.  I've been told the enforcer, 
who wants the Christians destroyed, is Isaac Bonewits who head up the 
Aquarian Anti-Defamation League.  These were some of the heavyweights John 
was facing.  The others were high priests and priestesses in local covens as 
well as Masons.  Now understand, no legitimate witch was allowed in John's 
store.  It had been boycotted.

John was surprised when two real witches came into his store bringing a 16-
year old runaway named Karen Schnipper.  She had been beaten by her father.  
Immediately John felt sorry for her.  He had been a beaten child.  They asked 
for John's help.  Here's where it gets interesting.

The two witches were Bob and Julie Pritchet (not sure of spelling).  They 
were known as "Terror" and "Albarros" (not sure of that spelling either) 
which means the Black One, or Undergod, or the devil.  These two were leaders 
in the local Church of Wicca, under the control of Gavin Frost, the pope of 
the occult.  The girl, Karen, was a witch from Chicago.  John estimated her 
to be a second level witch.  She had a history of incest and heavy drugs.  
She offered John $200.00 to drive her to Chicago to get away from her brutal 
father.  He had a broken hand from hitting Karen.  John agreed to take her.

Before he got to Chicago, John stopped and called Shiela.  She told him there 
was an all-points bulletin on him for kidnapping.  The police were waiting 
for John in Chicago, the father had made the charge.  I believe the witches 
plotted the whole set-up.  The police offered John immunity if he'd bring the 
girl back.  The deal was made through John's boss.  All charges were dropped.  
John admits he and Shiela were deep into sin.  They were away from the Lord 
and miserable.

In January 1976, a 13-year old girl was missing from a children's home in 
Dayton called "Shawen Acres," located about a block form the occult store.  A 
police officer by the name of Robert Keen who handled hundreds of cases 
singled out this girl.  He accused John of killing her.  According to police 
reports, John says this 13-year old girl was a habitual runaway because her 
father raped her at age 10 and she had become a member of the motorcycle gang 
called "The Outlaws."  She was a known prostitute.

Officer Keen searched John's house and pushed one of the employees around, 
breathing threats of a murder charge against John Todd.  This officer claimed 
to be a Christian.  I called John on the phone that day and he told me about 
some of this man's actions.  He was bitter.  I said, "John, from what you're 
telling me, he isn't a Christian."  There was no love.  After a while the 
case was dropped.

In February of 1976 John was arrested for the Karen Schnipper kidnap case 
again.  It was a shock.  He applied for bail.  At the same time he was hit 
with a warrant for his arrest in Carlsbad, New Mexico for forgery.  Bail was 
denied.  The warrants for his arrest from New Mexico turned out to be phoney.  
John was not wanted.  They finally gave him bail.

Now the Illuminati made a deal with him.  On February 21, 1976 at 7 pm John 
and Shiela were invited to a dinner with Gavin Frost, the pope of the occult 
and his associate Isaac Bonewits.  They warned John to never mention the 
Illuminati again.  John refused.  They were furious.  The next day in a 
Unitarian church, Gavin Frost denounced John.  A "wanted" poster was to be 
issued for John raising the price on his head by the organization.

An interesting meeting took place.  Gavin Frost, the pope of the occult who 
despises Christianity, and Isaac Bonewits, his enforcer who seethes with hate 
for the believers in Christ, met with the Christian police officer as 
friends.  Idn't that strange?  The other man was Wes Hill, the man who 
reported all the stories on John Todd and for some reason always misquoted 
him.  It looks like they all had something in common.

In March, 1976, I got a surprise call from John.  He called me "Brother."  I 
praise the Lord because John and Sheila had come back to Christ.  They closed 
the occult store and burned its contents.  He was still on bail.  The trial 
was coming up.  Unknown to John, his lawyers were Masons.  They told John if 
he agreed to say he was guilty of driving Karen across the state line he 
would be released.  John agreed.  For some reason a visiting judge from 
Tennessee presided.  He also was a Mason.  He gave John the maximum sentence 
of 6 months with no probation.

The first night in the institution, the nurse insisted that John get a shot 
of phenobarbital and Vallium, claiming his records showed at one time he had 
been an epileptic.  They pumped so many drugs into John that by the end of 
three months he was in critical condition, moving him from the Veterans' 
Hospital to the General, and back again.  They were also hitting him with 6 
shots a day.  He was being overdosed purposely.  A specialist was only 
allowed to see John once.  He took a blood sample and said John was critical 
and in a toxic state, poisoned by Dilantin in his body.  John didn't 
recognize Shiela.  He was having 10 to 12 seizures a day.

Shiela got on the phone and begged me to help her.  I told her to get a 
lawyer.  She did.  The Lord was with her.  The lawyer contacted a Judge 
Shields and said that John Todd through the lawyer would file a suit in 
inhumane punishment against this court.  The judge ordered John released.  
John's life was saved.  The Illuminati lost that round.  God had answered our 
prayers.

Interesting note:  While John was in jail that little 13-year old runaway
that John was accused of murdering by Officer Keen called up her mother to
say she was out of the state of Ohio and that she was alive.

John was released on December 23, 1976.  After the first of the year Judge
Shields gave John permission to go to Phoenix, Arizona for a job.  Later,
John moved to Alabama and called his probation officer to see if it was all
right.  The officer said it was fine.

John and Shiela told me they would try to warn the churches one more time
what the Illuminati is doing to our churches and what they have planned for
us.  It takes guts to tell what's coming.  John makes mistakes on certain
statements and he'll admit it.  He is a Christian layman, not a minister.

Part of the material being circulated includes letters from ex-police officer
Keen and part of the news clippings from that area.  All this was when John
was backslidden.  John points out the letters ex-Officer Keen sent were
secret within the occult organization.  Only witches or Masons could possibly
get their hands on them.  The last people on earth I would believe would be
Galvin Frost, the pope of the occult and his enforcer, Isaac Bonewits who
I've been told commit animal sacrifices and who knows what else to the prince
of darkness.  These men are not my brothers in Christ.  They hate the ground
we walk on.  God help us when we have to rely on witches for information.

At least John has given us the warning.  He is being blasted by witches and
Christians alike.  As far as I'm concerned, his past is under the blood.
John has confessed all this to the Lord Jesus.

It would be easy to compromise and give in to these pressures, but I won't. I
believe and love both John and Sheila.  They are fighting for survival, never
knowing where the next shotgun blast will come from.

I know that as a result of his messages revival is breaking out.  Pastors
have called me by phone and told me that the kids are burning their rock
music and getting saved.

I believe the dear brothers in the Lord who are sending out this material
have made a mistake in not knowing who they are lining up with.  I pray these
attacks cease and that we may all be in much prayer about this.  John and
Shiela need our support as they face an unbelievable powerful force who would
stop at nothing to destroy them.  They are counting on Christians to help
them silence John.  If I thought for one minute John was a phony, I would not
hesitate for a second to expose him.  I've prayed and sought God about this
matter and I believe John is a true brother in Christ who has been given a
very difficult ministry.

Yours for the lost,

JACK CHICK, President, Chick Publications, Inc.
