                                                           <<JTC2.DOC>>
                                                               1977


   To go on,  so I don't confuse you too much,  since I have already des-
   troyed your High School History Lesson.  I have a habit of doing that.
   I will destroy more than that before the night is over but.............

   When I was a youngster,  I started practicing witchcraft.  I really cast
   my first spell when I was about eight,  and I started studying for the
   Priesthood when I was thirteen.  I was asked to join the 'Outer Court'
   of the Coven there in Columbus, Ohio, where I grew up,  and at fourteen
   I was initiated.  I would like too add this before I go on.  When the
   service is over I will be glad to talk with any MASON present.  And I
   will compare my INITIATION  to WITCHCRAFT,  Word for Word,  Action for
   Action,  with yours!  They are IDENTICAL without change!!!  And I will
   be glad to discuss this matter with you.

   After that, at eighteen,  I was initiated a High Priest.  This made me the
   'Ruling Pastor',  more or less.  See,  in witchcraft,  the church is a
   little different.  ONLY THE MINISTERS MEET,  and THEY MEET ONCE A MONTH!
   The CONGREGATION does not even KNOW WHO IS IN IT!  They only go to their
   particular Priest and ask for a FAVOR.  They NEVER COME TOGETHER.

   But uhhhh... At eighteen I was made 'The High Priest',  and that made me
   DRAFT EXEMPT from the U.S Army, or from the U.S Military Service because
   all of the denominations,  or Brotherhoods of witchcraft are Federally
   recognized TAX DEDUCTIBLE CHURCHES,  AND THEREFORE THEIR MINISTERS DO NOT
   HAVE TO SERVE!   We received 4D Status, but a lot of us at that time thou-
   ght it was important to get witchcraft started at the different military
   bases,  so we ENLISTED ANYWAY!  That was in 1968.  When I was Discharged
   in 1970,  there was a COVEN at EVERY MILITARY BASE IN THE U.S. AND EUROPE
   OF ALL FOUR OF THE BRANCHES OF SERVICE!  So IT GROWS very quickly!

   I served in Vietnam,  came back and re-enlisted for six years,  and served
   thirty days of my six year term, went to Germany for that time,  and up
   until this time I thought that witchcraft was just like being a BAPTIST
   or being a CATHOLIC,  IT WAS A RELIGION!  I didn't realize there was
   anything to it except 'Witchcraft'!  And this is where MOST Witches are
   at.  In fact at this time I believed in a GODHEAD System of GODS and
   GODDESSES.   And I believed in it Very Devoutly!  I had been raised in it
   all my life!  I believed in Psychic Powers and that's ALL I BELIEVED IN.

   I was there in Germany one night after taking some drugs and doing a lot
   of drinking and I got into a 'Shootout'  in the middle of downtown
   Stutgardt with an Officer!  The Officer got killed. Now the Army has a
   strict No-No about shooting officers.  They don't like it.  So,  they
   placed me in solitary confinement and there I am waiting for Levinworth
   more or less.  We had already offered a plea to the judge that I would
   plead guilty if he would give me thirty years and call it quits,  and
   he tore it up and laughed at us.  So I was pretty sure what was in for
   me and I just sat there.  Eventually,  through a riot that had happened
   at the stockade just a few days prior, and a man being placed in solitary
   confinement along with me and then released from the stockade,  I got
   word out back to the United States by phone,  the predicament that I was
   in.  I had been in Germany such a little time that I hadn't had a chance
   to start a Coven at Stutgardt and I had no way of getting the word out.

   But the man placed a phone call to Los Angeles,  collect,  to my foster
   mother,  and told her the predicament I was in.  Now all I asked him to
   tell her was to cast a spell on the jury so they would think I was a
   real nice person,  and that's all I thought they would do.  Now I have
   seen spells work like this many times,  I have seen them work recently
   many times in courts,  but I was not expecting what took place.

   About three days after the man made the phone call my cell door opened.
   And there stood A Senator,  A U.S Congressman,  a couple of Generals and
   an Honorable Discharge.  The Honorable Discharge gave no reason as to why
   I was being discharged. I just had an Honorable Discharge like I had
   served all my time.  I had all my time and rank and grade.  Even a Top
   Secret Security clearance.  I was told that my Court Martial records had
   been destroyed and that my military file would be placed with a Top Secret
   Security Clearance so that nobody could get into it.  That was the end of
   it!

   The Senator and the Congressman left,  and I went to Fort Dix and filed
   the rest of my papers and stuff and headed for Columbus,  Ohio,  scratch-
   ing my head the whole time,  wondering what type of spell was so good
   that it had Senators and Congressmen doing it's bidding!  I still didn't
   catch on to what was going on.  So I arrived in Ohio and I began asking
   questions the day I arrived there and I was told that they had been
   expecting me and gave me an envelope with a one way,  first class ticket
   to Kennedy Airport in New York City,  $2,000.00 for spending money,  and
   I was to get on the next flight and they would make a phone call and tell
   THEM I was coming.  That was fine except I wanted to know who 'THEM'
   were!  They said that I would find out when I arrived.  So I got on
   the plane,  took off,  landed at Kennedy,  and sure enough somebody
   was waiting to meet me.  A person that I had read his books,  I had
   thought was one of the greatest 'Wizards'(Mel Witches) that had ever
   lived and very privileged that I could be staying with him and learning
   more about witchcraft from him.

   Now I gave his name,  which I am going to give in a minute,  in Philadel-
   phia last Sunday night.  I even gave his job at the time that I was
   staying with him.  The newspaper and everybody else said they called the
   University he was supposed to be working for and the University denied
   he had ever been there.  Funny,  I used to sit in his classes in the
   University!  THEY HAVE A WAY OF COVERING THINGS UP!

   He has his own College now,  for witches,  his name is name is........
   Dr. Raymond Buckland and at that time he was head of the Anthropology
   department at Columbia University,  although Columbia University would
   like to say he never existed!  But I learned with him for awhile and
   learned a little more in Maryland and went to California and studied
   some more.  During this process I began to learn what most witches don't
   know.  And that is,  the Gods they have been Worshipping Don't Exist!
                            ----                ----------- ----- -----


   That they are imitated by what we call 'Familiar Spirits'  or 'Spirit
   Guides', Demons, (witches don't like to call them Demons,  they like to
   call them 'Spirit Guides'),  and that THERE IS ONLY ONE GOD, AND THAT
   GODS' NAME IS LUCIFER!
                 -------

   Now this was a SHOCK to me since I was raised to believe that the DEVIL
   DID NOT EXIST!  You see,  WITCHES are NOT SATANISTS.  They DON'T BELIEVE
   IN SATAN!  And it was quickly explained to me that LUCIFER was a GOOD
   GOD and NOT an EVIL GOD,  and that JESUS CHRIST was THE IMITATOR!
                                      ----- ------ --- --- ---------

   So, Uhhhh, I learned  and I learned many things both of witchcraft and I
   also learned why the Senators and the Politicians were there.  They were
   there because WE WERE THE RELIGION OF A POLITICAL ORGANIZATION CALLED THE
   ILLUMINATI.   -- ---- --- -------- -- - --------- ------------ ------ ---
   ----------


   I was told ALL about the Illuminati and it's history.  I was schooled
   in the things that it had done and the things that it was going to do,
   and the things I was going to do.  Before I go on,  if I can have the
   lights dimmed in here and the Pastor will give me a hand, I want to show
   a few things that will help explain.

   I didn't make these,  Bro. Barry made them,  and I think they have a lot
   to be desired.  I don't know if you can see them or not.  The thing you
   see up here is on the back of your ONE DOLLAR BILL,  and what it is,  is
   the 'Seal of the Illuminati'.  America tells us that it is the reverse
   side of the 'Great Seal of the United States.  The only problem is that
   the United States has never sealed one document with it,  ever,  and
   never intends to.  It was in existence before the United States was in
   existence.  I invite you,  if you know your Latin,  to look at your
   dollar bills later and down at the bottom,  you will see some Latin.
   It says,  'This New Order that began in 1776'.  That means not the fourth
   of July,  but May 1, 1776,  the creation day of the Illuminati!

   It consists of three Pyramids and a Sphynx which I will go through very
   quickly.  We have put a few blocks on there.  There are hundreds of
   blocks in each Pyramid.  This is the Political organization which is
   the middle Pyramid. The first Pyramid consists of blocks which represent
   some of it's Political and Police organizations that they use.  We put
   up ones that mainly concern the United States.  On the top of each
   Pyramid you will see a 'Capstone'  with an 'Eye' in it.  The 'Capstone'
   is the Rothschild family,  or Tribunal that rules the Illuminati,  they
   were the Creators of it.  The 'Eye' is Lucifer their God,  and their
   Voice.  The first three top blocks are on every Pyramid.  The top block
   is what I was initiated to,  the Council of Thirteen called the Grand
   Druid Council.  They only take orders from the Rothschilds' and nobody
   else.  They are their PRIVATE PRIESTHOOD!

   The Council of Thirty Three is directly under them.  That is the Thirty
   Three highest Masons in the World.  The Council of Five Hundred is some
   of the wealthiest people in the world.  I could honestly say the five
   hundred richest people and 'Conglomerates in the World'.  And that is
   their 'Real Power' as I will show you in a minute.

   This is the politics.  I don't think you can see much of the writing,
   but this is the organizations of witchcraft.  The Golden Dawn is the
   fourth block up there,  which is the Rothschild private Coven.  The
   Aquarian Arts Festival is the organization that ties all of the occult
   brotherhoods together in St. Paul.  The Wicca Church of America,  I was
   a member of.  The Church of All Worlds is located in St. Lewis(these are
   denominations like Northern Baptist, Southern Baptist, Independent
   Baptist).  The National Council of Churches.  The Satanic Brotherhood of
   America.  Scientology.  Unity is the main platform for witches to be
   speakers at toward to what they consider Christian people.

   The Church of Wicca is another denomination located in Greenfield, N.C.
   Aquarian Anti-defamation League is an organization that was formed by
   one of the Grand Druids,  Isaac Boniwitz,  and the American Civil
   Liberties Union.  It's purpose is to pass laws and to sue Christian
   Churches in Federal Court for defaming witches and the occult,  and they
   have been winning millions of dollars in Federal Court.

   The Process Church of the Final Judgement is a Church that Charles Manson
   belonged to and I was also a member of it and they believe in Human
   Sacrifice and they believe that the only answer to Christianity is to
   bomb the Churches and execute the Christians.  The Garnarian Brotherhood
   is the traditional witchcraft in England.  The Order of the Rose Cross
   (another word for it is Rosicrusian) they are a Human Sacrifice Order.
   The Holy Order of the Garter is another traditional English witchcraft
   group.

   I don't know if you can see this,  but this is the most important one.
   This is the "Power of the Illuminati"!  Without the Sphinx, the Mystery
   of the Illuminati would have no power.  This is where all of it's power
   comes from.  If you notice the head of it is the Rothschild family and
   the Council of Five Hundred.  Under that,  the Rockefellers',  DuPont,
   Kennedys',  Onasiss' and other families.  Queen Julianne is also on the
   Council of Five Hundred.  Over in the center is it's 'Heart'!  The Bank
   of England,  the Bank of France,  the Federal Reserve Bank.  Most people
   think that the Federal Reserve Bank is a Government organization.  IT IS
   NOT!  It has NOTHING to do with the Government of the United States.

   It is a STOCK HOLDER OWNED COMPANY BY INDIVIDUALS!  Most of the Stock is
   own by NON-AMERICANS! Ninety percent of it!

   The Chase Manhattan Bank.  The Bank of America and the 1St. National Bank.
   The World Common Market.  Standard Oil.  Montgomery Wards.  Sears.
   Federal Department stores.  Fazios'.  Safeway groceries,  and others.
   We just put a few blocks up there.  Shell Oil.  Shell Oil is owned by
   Queen Julianne and Philip Rothschild.  and of course Union 76.

   We tell Christians across the United States that you can not shop any
   day of the week,  house wives and husbands can not shop without buying
   from a company that the Illuminati owns!  IT IS IMPOSSIBLE!

   About twelve years ago Philip Rothschild ordered one of his mistresses to
   write an 1100 page book that would describe to all witches how they would
   take control of the world through the Illuminati.  It was called Atlas
   Shrugged.  One of the things in it is happening on the front pages of the
   newspapers across the United States right now.  In fact it spent 1/3 of
   the book describing how they would raise the oil prices and later destroy
   the oil fields and then they would also completely shut down the coal.
   That was written twelve years ago.  It also described how they would
   blow up grain mills and how they would de-rail trains.

   Their sole purpose is to BANKRUPT THEIR OWN COMPANIES AND DESTROY THEIR
   OWN COMPANIES UNTIL THEY DESTROY THE CURRENCY OF THE ENTIRE WORLD AND
   STILL BE SO FINANCIALLY STRONG THAT THEY WOULD WITHSTAND IT.

   Now to get back to my testimony while everyone gets their breath!

   I know you thought you were going to hear a lot about spell casting and
   spooky ghosts but I surprised you.  I have something more spooky to tell
   you.

   Anyway,  as I learned all this and I was taken up to Colorado Springs,
   outside of Norad Center,  about a mile away in the same location,  and
   placed through an initiation for this Council of Thirteen.  And then I
   moved to San Antonio,  Texas,  where I lived until I was Saved,  and
   ruled the thirteen State area that I had from there.  When I was saved
   I had 5000 covens totaling 65000 initiated Priests and Priestesses.
   That's just the ministers,  not the congregations.  So it is quite large.
   This State wasn't one of them.  This State is run by Mrs. Buckland,  but
   Ohio was one of them so it is close enough.

   I lived there until I was saved Labor Day of '72',  and what led to my
   SALVATION,  was this........................


   The Grand Druids meet EIGHT times a year on the 'Witches Sabbath' at
   various locations in the world.
   I hosted the last meeting that I attended,  it was held in San Antonio
   at the Casino Building.  A courier from the London Embassy,  a member
   of our State Department,  brought a 'Sealed Courier Pouch',  so imig-
   ration couldn't touch it,  to the meeting and left it.
   It had never been opened from the time it had been sealed at the London
   Embassy.
   Dr. Buckland cut the seal on it and took out SIX letters that had been
   sealed with this ILLUMINATI CREST!
   The first FOUR were just business.  Money we were to pay here and there
   and so on.  Actually the Grand Druid Council is nothing but GLORIFIED
   BANKERS!  They write MILLIONS of DOLLARS worth of CHECKS to people in
   POLITICAL and RELIGIOUS fields every Month.

   The last two letters led me to want to get out!

   I had,  as a child,  accidentally attended a few Sunday School classes
   because I had nothing better to do.  During those classes I heard about
   the Book of Revelation and a few things in it,  which was very strange
   being back in the early '60's' to hear anything like this. At least
   in the particular kind of Church I was going to,  it was kinda liberal.
   So I had a little background of what the Christians felt was in their
   Bible.  I thought it was FOOLISH,  but I had a little background.

   Now I always kind of snickered,  even though I was part of setting up
   a 'World Government',  I snickered that it was ever going to happen,
   that we were serious,  it was kind of a little GAME that we were playing.
   As long as the Rothschilds'  had all the MONEY to SPEND on our PLANS,
   we went ahead and spent their MONEY!

   So I never took it seriously until I opened the LAST TWO LETTERS!

   Now in the first letter that we opened of those LAST TWO,  was a CHART!
   In that CHART,  it listed an EIGHT YEAR, STEP BY STEP PLAN,  for
   WORLD TAKEOVER,  ENDING in the December month of 1980.

   Since I have gotten out,  I have not seen one thing fail or be delayed
   on that TIMECHART.

   I am NOT SAYING THAT IT WON'T BE DELAYED!

   BUT IT IS GOING TO TAKE A LOT OF SERIOUS CHRISTIANS DOING A LOT OF SERIOUS
   PRAYING WHICH I HAVE NOT SEEN YET!

   Next!   The Last Letter we opened contained........ Now I am going to
   have to QUOTE it and then I am going to have to explain it.  You see,
   Witches say english,  but they say words that may not mean anything to
   you.

   It Said,  'We have found A MAN who WE believe to be the SON OF LUCIFER'
              --      -----   ---     -- -------           --- -- -------

   'We Believe through HIS WORKS and OUR BACKING,  HE can BECOME the RULER
   of this WORLD,  STOP ALL WARS,  and bring PEACE FINALLY to this War
   Stricken World'!

   Now that LITERALLY meant that WE had found a PERSON so FANTASTICALLY
   POWERED that HE could CONVINCE people that HE was THEIR ONLY SALVATION!

   Now that LITERALLY meant,  in CHRISTIAN TERMS,  HE was DEMON POSSESSED
   like no one had EVER SEEN!

   After reading that,  on August the first 1972,  I decided it was time
   to look elsewhere to get out.  Now this had not been a new idea.
   Before I was made a Grand Druid I thought about getting out and so had
   a young actress in California that was ordered executed and left hanging
   with her throat cut by one foot,  which was one of the Tarot Cards,  to
   tell all witches that she had betrayed witchcraft and this was her
   death.  After seeing this,  and what happened to Sharon Tate,  I decided
   I'd stay in......but now I wanted out!  I didn't know how to get out,  I
   didn't consider Christianity at all a way out,  but I wanted out!

   About a month rolled around and I got deeper involved in drugs,  in fact
   the night I was Saved,  I weighed 149 pounds because I was doing $150
   a day worth of Methadrine (SPEED).  I was 'Mainlining' it,  what the
   'street people'  call 'Crystal'.  So I was literally in a paranoid mess
   anyway because of the drug and all these plans hadn't made me anymore
   restful.  So one morning, Saturday morning, a Baptist preacher came
   across me in one of our Occult Stores.  He was there because overnight he
   came to realize that witchcraft was REAL,  when he had always considered
   it a 'Fable' about witches flying on broomsticks with warts on their
   nose and pointed hats.  The way he found it was he found his daughter an
   Initiated Priestess of a witchcraft coven.  He caught her casting spells
   in her bedroom one night.  So it became very real to him,  and after
   much prayer and fasting,  he decided to track down a few witches and see
   if he couldn't witness to them.  He wasn't getting through to his daugh-
   ter he thought he might go to the head of it and if they got saved,  his
   daughter would get saved.

   So he found me in one of our occult stores called The Spanish Bizarre,
   there in San Antonio,  and started to witness to me.  He knew who I was
   because I was going by my witchcraft name,  Lance,  and everybody in
   town had seen me on Television and Radio and the Newspapers,  about
   witchcraft.

   So he started witnessing to me and I told him in certain profanity that
   I didn't care for it and I would like him to leave!  So when this failed
   he decided he was not going to get past the Demons in me so he started
   ordering the Demons to be QUITE,  and then he proceeded to pray for me,
   wether I liked it or not!  The Prayer went something like this......

   " I DEMAND that SATAN STOP giving you HIS Benefits,  including drugs".
   " I ORDER that TO BE SO in the Name of Jesus".
   " I COMMAND SATAN to STOP Communicating with you SUPERNATURALLY"
   " I BREAK your POWER of WITCHCRAFT".
   " Till you come face-to-face with the Gospel",  and then I Command your..
   mind to be SET FREE so that you can perceive the Gospel and make your
   OWN MIND UP!

   Now this was necessary in my condition because I didn't have my own mind.
   -------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Then he left!  I thought he was CRAZY, so I went upstairs and did some
   more drugs  because I couldn't understand why I was feeling the way I
   was feeling.  And that was not too well at the moment!

   Well, that night,  I didn't have anything to worry about.  I did all my
   drugs up because I was expecting a very large shipment of drugs to come
   across to Loreto, MX, except something happened that had never happened
   before.  The drugs got BUSTED!

   The wrong guard, that was not on our salary,  was on the border that night
   They even brought the wrong car across,  they had the wrong license #,
   the whole....EVERYTHING that could have gone WRONG,  went WRONG,  and the
   shipment got BUSTED,  and I was without DRUGS!

   So when I found out about it,  I made a few phone calls around to differ-
   ent areas in the United States, trying to find some drugs that could get
   to me very quickly,  because most people had already used their's up,  we
   were at the end of it.  I was told I would have some Tuesday morning.
   Now that is a long time to wait for an addict as bad as I was.
   So about Monday night (Labor Day night) as I was going through with-
   drawal extreme (proportionate withdrawal),  I got into my car and started
   to drive it out of the parking lot and almost drove it in the river.
   So I left it there and I went for a walk.  I walked about 4 or 5 blocks
   and I came upon a Movie Theater.  It was just an every day Movie Theater
   and it is still here to this day.  It shows just regular pictures.  Not
   anything to do with the Christian Church so I thought I was pretty safe.
   I paid my money and went in.  Sat down about three rows back.  I was
   going to get right into the Movie.  It was a Movie called the 'Cross and
   The Switchblade'!  <laughter by audience>.

   Now that may seem funny to you,  but it was not funny to me at the time!

   So I sat there,  trying to make 'wise cracks' at the movie all night and
   became interested in Nicky Cruze!

   See,  you think with one mind ( I think with the same mind now as a Chris-
   tian),  but as a Witch,  I thought with a different mind.
   Dave Wilkerson was the ENEMY and Nick Cruze was the HERO!  So I sat there
   and I thought,  "Well,  this guy is pretty good, nothin wrong with him",
   "Maybe he will convert the Preacher over here"!  And then Nicky got
   saved!

   Now that term meant nothing to us!  But when he CHANGED,  from the OLD
   Nicky Cruze to the NEW Nicky Cruze,  that meant something.  That was
   IMPOSSIBLE!

   The Cornerstone,  or the whole platform of witchcraft, is,  you cannot
   cast a spell you cannot mix a potion you cannot do a rite without a firm
   knowledge of ASTROLOGY!  It is The Base for ALL Practices in Witchcraft!

   One of it's teachings is.............

   You are Born a SET Personality.  There is nothing you can do to CHANGE
   from that SET Personality,  and Mine was pretty Lousy as it was.

   So as Nicky Cruze changed,  this was a MIRACLE,  not understandable to
   any witch.  So going out of there in a very confused state of mind,  as
   I walked out the door,  not realizing much of what had happened even to
   the point that I forgot that I was even going through withdrawal.
   And I walked out and a young man walked up to me and he handed me this
   track and said, " here,  this is for you",  and he turned around and
   walked away.  He didn't hand anybody else a track.  He just left.
   And the track was called 'BEWITCHED'!

                                                          <<<See JTC3.DOC>>>