
                                                             <<JTC4.DOC>>
                                                                 1977

   NEXT QUESTION:

   It is said that the Communist Party is the Greatest Threat in the World
   today,  and you say that it is the Illuminati. What do you have to say
   about that?


   ANSWER:

   Well,  you are talking to an EX-Illuminatist who knows that there is
   no such thing!  Anybody coming out of the Illuminati will tell you that
   the Communist Party is run by Illuminatists.  NOT COMMUNISTS!!!
       --------- -----    ---    -------------   --------------

   History shows it!  Sometime back in 1776,  Albert Pike,  then the Head
   of the Illuminati,  also head of the Masons at the time, said that they
   needed to create a political party that would frighten the world and
   keep it fighting each other,  until they could bring peace to the world.
   Then Carl Marx showed up.  Now if you go to the British Museum you will
   find two checks for several thousand pounds made out to Carl Marx,  and
   signed by Nathan Rothschild!  OK?  And I can go into much history about
   the Communist Party!  How Lennin and Trotsky both stayed at the Crubb
   Mansion in New York,  financed by Rockefeller and Crubb and Schiff and
   others.  How they took 4 million dollars of Jacob Schiff's gold to fin-
   ance the Revolution!  Sailed from New York Harbor!  Where their ship was
   confiscated by the British Government as it tried to run the blockade
   during WW1.  How Woodrow Wilson called and ordered their release so
   America wouldn't go into the War,  and how they were sent on their way!
   There is much History about it!
   ------------------------------


   NEXT QUESTION:

   What does Witchcraft have to do with the Masons'?

   ANSWER:

   Well,  other than the 33 highest Masons' sit on the Council of 33!
   Other than the fact that most Masons do not realize that they have taken
   the same rite that Witches take.  The same rite is taken to become a
   Mason,  with the exception that witches CUT THEIR WRISTS and Masons
   DO NOT CUT THEIR WRISTS!
   That is the ONLY Difference!  It is EXACTLY the SAME!
   I can describe our witchcraft rites,  and yours are exactly the same!
   We have been doing it for 8,000 years!  What is your excuse?


   NEXT QUESTION:

   What about the Knights of Columbus?

   ANSWER:

   Yes,  I wish you could have seen these.  On the Organizations,  let me
   read off the Organizations real quickly.

   Benai Birth
   American Civil Liberties Union
   The Scottish Rite

   By the way,  witchcraft is supposed to be the Old Religion of Scotland.

   The York Rite
   The Jaycee's
   Let me explain about the Junior Chamber of Commerce.  The Illuminati
   needed a group to fund,  to finance the training of the radical groups
   that would be used later.
   The Junior Chamber of Commerce was the group chosen to do the funding!

   The Masonic Lodges,  both the White and the Blue
   The Knights of Columbus
   The Knights of Philisophus
   The Odd Fellows

   I want to say something about these lodges.  It's leaders use that
   organization for their purposes.  That does not mean that the members
   of those organizations know what is going on.
   Clear back after our Revolutionary War,  you can find this in the Adam's
   Chronicles.
   John Adams wrote George Washington asking him to beware of Thomas Jeff-
   erson and Alexander Hamilton and their misuse of the Masonic Lodges
   which Washington was a member of,  because he was using it,  and this
   is a direct quote,  "He was using it for Illuminati purposes and the
   Worship of Lucifer"!

   I have in my car,  photographic copies of books handed only to chosen
   ones in the 32nd and 33rd levels, describing the initiation of the 33rd
   level mason,  also describing of what they thought of Jesus.
   Believe me,  it is not POLITE!  And,  who the TRUE GOD IS!  They consider
   Jesus to be an impersonator,  'The TRUE GOD is LUCIFER'!  Now that is
   in black and white out of Masonic books.  I have them in my car and if
   you want to debate the matter,  after the service, I will go get them and
   let you read it out of your own books!


   NEXT QUESTION:

   I have fooled around with Tarot Card a little and I felt a little edgy
   about some of the events that were taking place and I decided to get
   rid of them,  and it was scary!

   ANSWER:

   The Answers you were getting from the Tarot Cards were coming from
   DEMONS!
   If you had read the 18th chapter of Deuteronomy you wouldn't have done
   it.  You would have been stoned to death in Old Testament time for it.
   Every drawing means something and the Demons control how the cards fall
   and use them,  but they can only be up to 90% accurate.
   NOTHING in WITCHCRAFT is EVER 100% ACCURATE!

   NEXT QUESTION:

   What are the Illuminati plans for the Nation of Israel?

   ANSWER:

   They will use Israel to gain control of the World.
   All nations except the United States will go after Israel just before
   they take over the world and cause WW 3.

   The United States government will step in a save Israel.


   NEXT QUESTION:

   What are Christians expected to do?

   ANSWER:

   Pray!

   I'll tell you this.  The only thing the Illuminati fears as I said is an
   independent person who can live,  eat,  sleep,  stay warm and defend
   themselves separate from Federal help.
   Pray that the Lord gives us more time!  It is short (close)!

   See,  they have tried twice before.  They have never been this organized.
   They have tried twice before in a span of 200 years to RULE the WORLD
   and came VERY CLOSE!
   Once during Napoleon and once during WW 1.  They came EXTREMELY close to
   gaining the world both times!  NOW! Let's pray that the Lord messes up
   their plans one more time!  I have not seen it happen yet, but I'd like
   to see it happen!

   NEXT QUESTION:

   Is ROCK MUSIC an outgrowth of witchcraft?

   ANSWER:

   You CAN'T Practice Witchcraft WITHOUT IT!

   Now when I was in there,  I was President of the largest booking agency,
   they have had to change their name since then,  because of the publicity
   I have been giving them,  but at the time they were called Zodiac Prod-
   uctions.  I knew most of the Rock groups in the U.S.  I still do,  that
   is why we live in L.A.  Some of my closest friends are Dave Crosby from
   Crosby Stills Nash and Young, and Graham Nash and others that are around
   there and I still talk to many of them.  Most of the Rock groups are
   members of a Witchcraft Church!  That does not mean that they have been
   initiated that means that is their religion.

   When they write a song,  they will ask the witch covens or the Temple to
   cast a spell over that song so that it will become a hit and sell!

   Now what takes place when a witch casts a spell is they order a lot of
   demons to do things.  They don't know that is what they do,  but that is
   just what happens.

   Now that means when you go buy an album and you take it home with you,
   it is just like buying a 'Box of Cracker Jacks'.  You get a FREE SURPRISE!
   It is called 'A DEMON'!  It goes ALONG with the record.  OK?

   Now much of the music is written in Witch Language by witches!
   Elton John has made the statement that he has never written a song that
   was not written in Witch Language!  Example: 'Beyond the Yellow Brick
   Road',  is one of his songs written in Witch Language.
   That is why many songs you don't understand.  That is why many people who
   listen to them don't understand.  Until they get HIGH ON DRUGS and then
   all of a sudden the meanings start coming to them!

   Many songs that have been written in Witch Language was the whole album
   by Carol King called 'Tapestry'!
   The book of Prophesy to witches is the double white album that the Beatles
   produced containing the song 'Helter Skelter'.  Every song in it is
   prophesy!

   Horse with No Name - One Tin Soldier,  I could list thousands of songs
   that were written this way.  They DEFINITELY have DEMONIC INFLUENCE
   behind them!

   PARENTS,  I want to say this to you!

   Have you noticed the increase of REBELLION in TEENAGERS in the home?
   The reason is,  it is your fault!  You let them listen to it!  It stirs
   up rebellion!

   IT IS NOT THE WORDS IN THE SONG,  IT IS THE MUSIC!!!!!
   -------------------------------------------------
   Witches know this, and they hit certain chords on purpose.  As many people
   who have once been in hypnosis like Dr. Barry when he was younger,  was
   involved in Hypnosis can tell you,  THE MUSIC IS HYPNOTIC!
   It stirs up a WAR-LIKE NATURE in the young people.
   Now they are going to BOO me when this is over,  but it is still the
   truth anyway.  Now if you want to have them stay the way they are and
   you want to baby them,  cause you are afraid they might get mad at you
   or run away from home or something,  you can go ahead and let them keep
   on playing it cause they are going to do it anyway.
   Or,  you go home,  break the records and you BURN the Covers!

   When witches get saved,  nobody has to tell them to get out of Rock Music.
   When they hand their witchcraft items over to be BURNT,  notice I said
   BURNT,  not thrown into the trash can,  it is Scriptural,  they hand
   their records over too!  Because they have lived in a world of the Super-
   natural and they know the SUPERNATURAL TIED IN WITH MUSIC!

   The most perfect description of LUCIFER that ever existed is found in the
   28th Chapter of Ezekiel in the King of Tyre!

   It describes LUCIFER being created with MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS IMBEDDED IN
   HIS BODY.  It is TRUE!  As a person who has seen him,  it is TRUE!
   He thinks he is a GOD and therefore he must have music because GODS must
   have music!

   So you can go ahead and let HIS MUSIC be played in your home if you choose
   or you can become a stronger Christian and GET RID OF IT!

   You are the parents!  The kids are NOT going to answer for it.  You are
   the Head of the House,  You are going to answer for it!


   NEXT QUESTION:

   Could NOT hear the Question on the tape!!!!!!


   ANSWER:

   No!  It will be coming into effect.  It is screened and they would not
   have got it passed without Christians' help.
   You see,  witchcraft NEVER sacrifices ANYTHING that they don't GAIN Ten
   Thousand miles!

   They lost the battle on purpose in court with the Moonies' and that set
   the stage for the Genocide Act!  While we were yelling, "Ya,  get them
   out of those false Cults and re-habilitate them",  we were setting the
   stage for our own downfall.  You don't give up freedom to a certain group
   without loosing it yourself,  and they have always set us up this way!
   I am always surprised at how easy Christians fall into it!


   NEXT QUESTION:

   How do you feel about the John Birch Society and it's leader?

   ANSWER:

   How do I feel about him?  Did you see that PYRAMID?

   You couldn't see it back there could you?

   I am against ANY ORGANIZATION who's LEADERS are 33rd Level Masons!
   -----------------------------------------------------------------

   And their LEADER is a 33rd Level MASON!

   Now!  He has taken off his Masonic ring in the last three years,  but
   he is a 33rd Level Mason!

   You CAN NOT HIT THE ILLUMINATI AND BE PART OF IT!

   The Illuminati knows that people are going to find out about them.
   People found out about them without my help!  Brother Barry knew about
   them before I came along!  And so when you find out about them,  the
   best thing they can do is call your attention towards something else and
   say that's that!  So they have reflected the attention on Zionism and said
   that is where it is at.  The only problem is that most of the people in
   the Illuminati are NOT JEWS!  Their founders were Jews by birth,  but not
   by RELIGION!  But most of it's leaders,  separate from the Rothschilds,
   are Galic,  Scotch,  or French Galic.  They have got NOTHING to do with
   the JEWS!

   My family and most of the people who served with me on the Grand Druids,
   their family trees go back to the Pagan Temples in Rome and Greece and
   England.  To the ORIGINAL Priesthoods!  Some of them go back to Egypt
   and Babylon.  They have got NOTHING to do with the Jews!  So I don't like
   them!  I don't like anybody that is a HATE GROUP for one thing,  and I
   have heard too much HATE doctrine from the Birch Society.

   Ya see!  I am NOT CHOOSY about WHO I HIT!    <laughter>   Ha Ha Ha


   NEXT QUESTION:

   A person who has been in the occult and saved,  are they more troubled
   by Demons than a person who has never been there?

   ANSWER:

   YES!  If they haven't been through a deliverance,  but at the same time
   they are a bigger weapon against the DEVIL.  You can't trick a witch
   with false Doctrines.  They have heard them all.  You can't pass off a
   phony Christian on a witch and you can't pass a witch off on them as a
   Christian.  They have been there,  they know what to spot.  That is
   why I look at a persons eyes when I talk to them.  If that person has
   Demonic influence in their life,  I want to know it!  I want to know
   who I am talking to and who I am not talking to.  And when you have
   lived in a supernatural world and you have dealt with demons like witches
   have,  it is no different when you spot them in a person who is profess-
   ing to be a Christian and is not living the life.
   So they are a stronger weapon against the DEVIL because they have served
   him.  You see,  as close as we are to Jesus now,  as loving and as
   passionate a relationship that we have with Him now,  that is how we
   felt about the DEVIL,  wether we knew he was the DEVIL or not.  And so
   when you are that close to something you know about it.  Now if you
   backslide you still know about Christianity,  so a backsliding witch
   knows about witchcraft.  It is the same thing.  But they do have problems
   and needless to say,  the Devil doesn't like us so we are hit a little
   harder than somebody else might be but at the same time we grow faster
   and stronger because of it.


   NEXT QUESTION:

   It says in the Brochure that you have in mind a retreat for Witches who
   want to get out because of the danger they face.  Could you comment on
   that?

   ANSWER:

   Oh,  I didn't realize that was in there.  Yes we are starting a retreat.
   As I told you,  many people have been killed that have come out of it.
   It has gotten so that witches aren't trusting to come out of it now.
   Very few are coming out because of the fear,  and there is no place for
   them to go!  I mean when you ask a Christian,  "Will you let this Witch
   come into your home so that they have a place to stay"?  And then all of
   a sudden you visualize people throwing Grenades through your window and
   shooting up your house,  you change your mind,  because that is probably
   what will happen!
   So we have decided to build a retreat in wilderness country somewhere on
   the West Coast.  I am not going to say where!  And uhhh,  an armed
   retreat, where these people will be safe until they grow,  and then they
   may either leave the retreat or they may stay.  And uhhh....it will serve
   a double purpose( I don't want to go into that now) later for Christians
   but right now that is it's purpose and we are believing that it will get
   built.  We need $50,000.00 and in the month and a half since we have
   been trying to raise the money my Pastor has received $25.00.
   See!  So it is hard to convince Christians a place like this is needed
   when they can go home to their safe house every night not realizing that
   for a witch to become saved,  for a witch to leave witchcraft,  their
   life is in extreme danger and they probably will be killed!  And it is
   easy to feel safe when you are safe.  I guess that is why I feel it
   because I am in danger all the time so I know how they feel,  and I have
   had many a close friend killed.  They have become Christians and then
   they have been killed!  So,  yes, we are trying to build such a retreat.


   NEXT QUESTION:

   What about Tex?  Will he be released too along with Manson?  He claims
   to be Born Again!

   ANSWER:

   He says he is Born again yes!

   Now you have to understand something!  If Tex was a Born Again Christian
   he would tell ALL!  There have been several people that are supposed to
   be Born again in that group that have not told anything!  If they were
   Born again,  they would tell ALL,  and they are NOT!  And that is why I
   don't believe it!  You may believe it if you choose,  but I don't!!

   I know Manson!  He is an old Buddy of mine!  I know what went on,  and it
   wasn't a MASS killing,  it was a CONTRACT killing!  Even the police and
   those who tried them,  knew that,  but they didn't want to press it in
   the trial because they didn't think that they could get a conviction if
   they PRESSED the CONSPIRACY THEORY behind it!!!!!  I talked to the Police
   officers who were behind it all!!!!

   NO!  I don't believe it!!!  If Tex was Born again and in prison,  they
   would be trying to KILL HIM for one thing!  Manson RUNS the PRISON!
   NOTHING goes down in there that HE doesn't give the ORDERS to!!!!
   And that is from the very Security Guards that work there!!!!!
   So I don't accept it!  I am Sorry!  Uhhh....I came out of that world and
   I realize what it means to be a Born Again Christian and how they are
   compelled to tell the TRUTH!!!

   Does Tex have the Fruit of the Spirit?

   This is the Test!  If the FRUIT is there,  he is a Christian!  If the
   FRUIT is NOT there,  he is not!  It is as simple as that!

   Without the Fruit you are going to grow THORNS and Not APPLES!





                                                            <SEE JTC5.DOC>



