                                                             <<JTC5.DOC>>
                                                                1977

   NEXT QUESTION:

   What about Christian ROCK Music?
   ---- ----- --------- ---- -----

   ANSWER:

   OK!  You are talking about Jesus Rock is that right?

   I mentioned a church earlier that we spent EIGHT MILLION DOLLARS in two
   years to build.  It is called Calvary Chapel.  It's pastor is Chuck Smith
   and it is in Costa Mesa,  Calif.
   The organization that he created is called MARINOT PRODUCTIONS.

   They Started Jesus Rock Music!

   The reason for the eight million dollars was to put ROCK MUSIC in Churches
   that did not allow Rock Music!

   It is NOT what is SUNG on the TUNE,  it is the MUSIC!


   I am going to answer two more questions and then I am going to have to
   turn it over to the pastor.

   Yes.

   Can a person being a member of a fundamental Church actually be a witch
   and not a Christian?

   ANSWER:

   Absolutely!

   They have spent millions of dollars putting 'Plants' in fundamental
   Churches around the United States!
   These 'Plants' are trained in Christian beliefs.
   The newest form of Blasphemy by a witch toward the Christian God,  is to
   sit there and Praise the Lord and act like a Christian,  laughing the
   whole time.

   Ok? ABSOLUTELY!  That's what LuGina,  the girl that took my place was.
   Her main thrust was to keep an eye on Jerry Falwell's Church while she
   was Witch Queen of Virginia.  And she was so good at it,  that they made
   her a Grand Druid when I resigned.  So there is a lot of it.  In fact the
   Church that reached me had FOUR High Priestesses attending the Church and
   had it in a MESS until they started finding what it was all about and
   took a hand in it and corrected the matter.

   They have recently tried to get witchcraft,  mainly the Ouija Board and
   Seances,  in MANY Christian High Schools because 95% of the people induc-
   ted into witchcraft in the last couple of years,  were inducted  by their
   Jr. High and High School teachers in the Public School Systems.  By
   teachers that were scholarshiped and funded and put through College that
   were coven members just so they could spread witchcraft.

   And so we, through many liberal practices in the schools have been using
   Christian Schools.  So now they are trying to get it into the Christian
   Schools.


   NEXT QUESTION:

   You said that a Christian should not have any witchcraft items in their
   possession.  Why then do you carry those Books with you?

   ANSWER:

   Those books are not the same books!
   The two books that I had,  and I don't have any with me tonight, one is
   written by Charles Finney who was saved out of the Masons and the other
   one was the first man executed by the Illuminati for betraying them,
   Captain Morgan.  This is the reason I carry those two books,  because
   they EXPOSE,  but I don't believe that a Christian can have books written
   by witches in their libraries and get away with it.  I don't own any!
   I burnt all mine when I got saved.

                                                 <END Verbatim Transcript>

