                                                     P.O. Box 115
                                          Florence, Montana 59833


January, 1979


Dear Brothers and Sisters:

Greetings in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.

I want to start this newsletter by apologizing for it being late.
The reason for the delay is that we have just moved.  We are now
in the general area of our retreat.  Praise the Lord for His
glory!  We are praying for the soon return of Jesus as it can
only make us happier than anything we have ever known.

We have received a lot of letters asking about the things John 
said on the tape, "Helter Skelter," and if anything has changed. 
On the contrary.  The riots have started in California like John 
said they would.  This time-table is right on schedule, and 
October 14 or 15 is still the date they have planned to change
the money over.  Of course, they could try to do it to us sooner. 
John still believes that all Christians should try to get out of 
the cities and store food and some type of defense.

We also feel that we should store Bibles and tracts.  We
personally feel that the Chick Publications tracts are the best
because you can just place one in somebody's hand without a lot
of explaining.

Many of you are wondering about the food.  You say, "What shall I
store?"  We recommend dehydrated foods.  They are cheaper and
easier to store.  If you don't know where you can get them, you
may write to:
               Sam Andy Foods
               P.O. Box 93
               Mentor, OH 44060
These people are very good friends of ours and will treat you
very well.

John is feeling completely well.  He is no longer booking any
meetings as it is so close and his life is in so much danger.  We
feel that we can do much more by sending out a newsletter and our
tapes.

We want to thank you who have sent offerings.  It is only your
support that keeps this newsletter going out.  Thank you for your
prayers and help.  Some of our worst sailing has been the last 2
weeks before moving.  It seems that everything that could go
wrong surely did.  Several attempts were made on our lives, but
God has brought us through and we thank Him for His protection.

We get letters continually asking for us to defend ourselves
against the many rumors going around.  Brothers and Sisters, we
just cannot constantly defend ourselves.  All we can say in
defense is that if you will wait and watch things will come to
pass as John has said they will.  A vicious rumor claims that
John was saved before he said he was.  The only thing John has to
say about that is he wishes he had been.  The only thing John has
to say about that is he wishes he had been.  That would have
given him more years to serve Christ.  He might have accomplished
more for the Lord Jesus Christ.

The rumors are only one more scheme to try to undermine and
discredit what John has said.  There will be some who will
believe them.  But then Jesus only had a chosen few who stood by
Him.  Even Peter denied Christ.  We are determined to stay with
Christ whatever the price may be.  We know that because we are so
close to the end, Satan seeks to destroy all those whom God has
chosen.

If any of you don't have confidence in this ministry, please ask
us to remove your name from our mailing list.  It costs just too
much to place our newsletter into ungrateful hands.  And contrary
to what some people may think, we only want to use Christ's money
in a constructive way.

We would like to warn you to look out for this Jim Jones issue to
play a part in what they'll start doing to the churches.  First,
they will try to get all churches to join a union so they will
have a clear picture of those which will not join.  In this way,
the churches that are not a part of the World Council of Churches
will be listed as cults.  We are in the days in which everything
that happens is shaping our future and this is not always good.
We just ask you to pray that Jesus Christ comes quickly.

May God bless and keep you and yours,


                              Sister Sheila Todd

                              (signed)


Note:
The perilous times the Bible speaks of are backed up by a
remarkable tape produced by Dr. Beter in November, 1978 from P.O.
Box 16428, Fort Worth, TX 76133.  His audio letter #40 is on the
Jonestown tragedy.

If what Dr. Beter says in this startling messages is true, then
we are on the brink of war with Russia right now.  He describes
what really took place in Jonestown.  The entire tragedy was a
set-up to wipe out secret Russian bases about 70 miles from the
site of the mass murder-suicides.  He describes how the body
count rises as Russian and Cuban missile personnel are hit by a
U.S. striking force and shuttled back with the bodies from
Jonestown.  It is a must to listen to so your vision may be
expanded as to what is going on in high places.

Pray for us as we continue to share with you our side of the big
picture.
                                             S.T.
