The Magick Pantry

Let me  first say that while  these are magickal proceedures,  they are not
intended to be taken literally. They  are taken purely for their historical
value, hence quite archiac. With this in mind it is suggested that you keep
an open mind relalizing that perhaps someone did use them at one time.

These  posts were  written to  assist those  participating in  CrystaLink's
ASTRAL_CHEF  and ASTRAL_GARDEN  echos, or  anyone for  that matter that can
benefit from its  content. These were referenced from  "The Book of Spells"
by David Norris &  Jacquemine Charrott-Lodwidge, with additional references
were by Greg Edwards.

It is intended as a general historical reference which gives those familiar
with  a Larder,  a touch  of past  history and  what items  might have been
included. Some of the items my not be considered ethically sound, so please
use your own descretion and training to make these decisions for yourself.


Purpose and Directions:

The larder or Magick  Pantry must be kept secret and secure.  It is a place
to store  all of your magickal  herbs and various plants  that the magician
needs to  rely on in  the day to  day practice of  magick. It is  a perfect
accompinemt for the plants grown in your Magick Garden.

Find a  cupboard or recess  in the house,  preferably one with  a solid oak
door. Be careful not to let in too  much light. Damp must be kept out. Open
the door  swiftly, put in  and take out  what is needed  and close the door
again. Keep  all the herbs  separate and in  labelled jars. Rose  water and
orange water must be placed in earthenware pots since glass would allow the
light  to  draw  their  potency.  Similarly,  precious  substances  such as
Ambergris and Caviare  should be stored in boxes of  Almond-Wood as this is
the safest of all of the known woods.

To  prepare well  all spells   and magick  potions, the  vessels, including
mortar and pestle, spoons, and knives should be perfectly clean and in some
cases brand  new. For the  more demanding spells  the utensils can  be used
only once.

More  difficult  spells  or  those  requiring  open  cooking,  may need the
construction  of a  tripod of  sticks from  which to  hang the  pot. Keep a
selection of Efficacious Sticks. Elder,  Almond, Oak, Apple, Rowan, Medlar,
Vine, Cypress and Laurel branches can be gathered for this purpose.

For spells promising  fertility and youth Hippomanes is  needed. (Of course
this is  definately NOT used  by all magicians,  and therefore I'd  suggest
using your own descretion.) This is  the foamy white substance found on the
head of a newly  born foal. The vital parts of a wolf  as well as its skin,
teeth and  feet will be useful  in many spells, particularly  those warding
off injury and  attack. To inspire, excite or please  the pet cat, a supply
of its favourite herb, Catnip is also needed.

For making  spells stay or even  last for ever, dissolved  gold, silver and
pearls are necessary. To ease all pains,  to secure death for oneself or to
bring it under control and make a  slave of it Hemlock is the classic herb.
Legend said that  to eat only a little  of the herb will make  someone your
slave for life.  I don't know if that  it actually the case, as  I've never
really wanted  a slave, so  I've never  tried  using it in  this manner. It
sounded dangerous anyway.. <smile>

Varied  additional supplies  that are  available thru  some Herbalists  and
which are  good for the Magick  Pantry are: Camel Oil,  Dragon's Blood, and
Unicorn Milk (of  course these are simply the  man-made names) Again, check
with your local  herbalist for recipes of this nature.  If you have recipes
for  either  of  these  three,  I'd  certainly  appreciate and welcome your
posting them.

In the next post labeled "The Magick Pantry" you will see some of the herbs
to include  as well as their  names and some of  their magickal uses. These
are some of the most important ones to read: Marigold, Nettle, Wild Teasel,
Celandine, Periwinkle, Pennyroyal,  Houndstongue, Henbane, Lily, Mistletoe,
Centuary, Sage, Vervain, Celery, Rose, and Snakeweed.


The Magick Pantry - Contents of Stock Summary

The  following items  should be  included in  your Magick Pantry. Following
this post, additional posts will follow  describing each in some detail, as
well as  giving the Magickal uses  of each. I certainly  hope that you will
enjoy them.

ALCHONE,  ASPHODEL,  BASIL,  BELLADONNA,  BETONY,  BLOOD  ROOT,  BRIMSTONE,
CELANDINE, CELERY, CENTAURY, CHICORY,  CORIANDER, DILL, ELECAMPANE, ERINGO,
GINSENG,  HENBANE, HOUNDSTONGUE,  IVY, LETTUCE,  LILY, MANDRAKE,  MARIGOLD,
MISTLETOE,   MUGWORT,  MUSK   OIL,  MYRTLE,   NETTLE,  ORRIS,   PENNYROYAL,
PERIWINKLE,  PEONY,  ROSE,  ROSEMARY,   RUE,  SAGE,  SNAKEWEED,  SPIKENARD,
SUNTULL, TONKA BEANS, VERVAIN, WHALE OIL, WILD TEASEL, and WORMWOOD.


The Magick Pantry - Alchone

If this  herb can be obtained,  it must be kept  and preserved as something
precious. It is  the herb of the sun  itself. It can heal the  passions and
secret griefs of any sufferer. It can also soothe the stomach. Moreover, it
increases a man's sexual potency if  the juice is taken prudently. To carry
the  root is  tot keep  the eyes  free from  infection or  even from seeing
anything  to grieve  them. A  little  Alchone  tucked inside  a shirt  will
preserve  the  wearer  from  fits.  It  is  also  an anti-congestant and an
anti-depressant.

Your selection of  canisters should be glass, ceramic,  or earthenware, and
properly labeled.  Remember, it is  a very vital  root for any  magician to
stock.

The Magick Pantry - Asphodel

This is the same beautiful flower that covered the fields of Elysium but it
is  useful, too.  It works  best under  the influence  of Saturn,  since it
belongs to this planet. Use Asphodel for pains in the legs or bladder. Boil
a little of  the root in water  and drink the resulting  infusion. <see the
infusion recipe if you  are not sure how to make one>  A little of the root
itself,  carried in  a clean  white linen  cloth, will  protect against all
negativity <evil influences>. keep some wrapped  up and hidden in the house
for the same  effect. Teething children should carry  a little Asphodel and
their teeth will break through and grow painlessly. It also offers ver good
nighttime protection against fears and enemies alike.

The Magick Pantry - Basil

Some say that this  is the most controversial of all the  herbs. To many it
is sweet and charming. To others it is poison. In all ancient writers Basil
excites rude abuse. A French physician  of the Middle Ages has claimed that
to inhale  the herb causes a  scorpion to be born  in the brain, or  as the
modern doctor might say, madness.  Of course, opinion again vary.. although
many myths have their basis of fact.  On the other hand, Basil is a popular
and harmless  cooking herb. Include it  fresh in the Magick  Pantry. Grow a
new sprig in the garden and it will keep you safe. The Hindus solemnly hold
it to be  a sacred herb and worship  it. So dear to them  is the Basil that
they place a  sprig of it in each  room of their house to  bring safety and
prosperity. Hang  it on the  inside of  the  door of each  room. Sprinkle a
pinch on food just before it is eaten  and your soul will be joined to that
of the  goddess of love.  The married partner  who has eaten  Basil will be
truly loved, but may also become quarrelsome.

The Magick Pantry - Belladonna

The  term  deadly  nightshade  accurately  describes  the  strength of this
powerful  Herb. Sweno's  army, when  it invaded  Scotland, was  lulled into
repose while  its leaders were  negotiating a truce  which the Scots  never
intended to accept. The Scottish  side provided the drinks and refreshments
by  mutual  agreement.  The  drink  given  to  Sweno's  army was laced with
Belladonna.  The wretched  army fell  into a  deep slumber  and, thus  made
vunerable, was overwhelmed  by the Scots. The name  Belladonna derives from
two sources. The  herb has its cosmetic uses  and can make a lady  twice as
beautiful by enlarging her pupils into a seductive wide-eyed look. But also
it is named after a notorious Italian poisoner, Leucota, who viciously used
the herb to poison all her beautiful female friends.

The Magick Pantry - Betony

This herb is also known as Bishopswort  but in the Magick Pantry it may not
be given an ecclesiastical name. Call it  Betony or Wood Betony and hold it
in  awe. It  has both  a good  and evil  reputation. The  physician to  the
Emperor Caesar Augustus  used it to treat his master  for liver trouble, to
protect him from Epidemics and to assist  in his digestion. <as you can see
it's great  for the digestive  part of  the  quinary> It was  said that the
Emperor used it to guard against Witchcraft although this term was mistaken
in those days.

On the  other hand, Betony  is said to  have been invaluable  to sorcerers'
spells. It's forbidden name was bestowed  upon it because it tended to grow
around old abbeys and derelict churches. Many people said that the herb was
hiding on consecrated  ground from the may occultists who  would use it for
evil purposes.

In opposing various forms of witchcraft, it may be used as follows:

Gently flake the  dried leaves and strew them in  an unbroken circle around
the  outside of  the house  or place  you want  to protect.  Make the  ring
thicker under windows and outside the  door. A wall of good enfluences will
arise and no evil deed will be able to pass through it.

Caution:  If Betony  is consumed  it is  sure to  cause death  by vomiting.
Please do not use this herb in edible recipes!

Betony  is  a  natural  enemy  of  the  vine,  for their tendrils repel one
another. Keep them  far apart in the Magick Pantry  for this simple reason.
Like described in  the Astral_Garden, there are those  herbs and trees that
simply will not tolerate each other.

The Magick Pantry - Blood Root

Store this herb in  a jar labelled with a false name  but remember that the
Blood Root  is within. This herb  is the root of  deception. The Indians of
North America used  it to stain their bodies,  and it is used still  to dye
fabrics.  Taken internally  it can   produce a  hypnotic trance.  (use with
caution as with all magickally oriented  herbs) Carried on a person, inside
a leather pouch or  a money-purse, Blood Root will  protect that individual
from  negativity or  evil influences.  But keep  it close  to money  for it
demands payment. If a home is suffering from an evil influence, put a sprig
of Blood  Root under the doorstep  or windowsill and all  will be well. Any
definite  spell or  curse placed  by a  witch can  be reversed  by flinging
broken pieces of the root onto his/her doorstep. However, never trust Blood
root unquestioningly, as it often times will suprise you.

The Magick Pantry - Brimstone

No substance is  more powerful in invoking or in  driving off the forces of
evil. Find a piece  of red paper and lay this on a  metal plate or dish. On
the paper place a pinch of Brimstone.  do this four times and put each dish
in one of the four corners of the room in which the spell is being cast. At
midnight set light  to the Brimstone. Address each  dish with the following
words:

     * I command all evil to flee this house never to return *

Remember to  leave all windosw wide  open during this rite  or the smoke of
the brimstone will be unable to escape and with it the spell.

Some say that Brimstone is actually a resin like that of Frankinsence.

The Magick Pantry - Celandine

Never confuse  this important plant  with the lesser  Celandine or Pilewort
used traditionally in the treatment  of haemorrhoids. The true Celandine is
at once a  more disagreeable and more potent herb.  It has black seeds; its
taste is  bitter and caustic; and  its smell is foul.  But its influence is
not to be sneered at. Swallows and Eagles build their nests in May, and the
flowering  of  the  Celandine  in  that  month  is  linked with this annual
domestic impulse in the animal kingdom. the  herb has its human uses and it
is  a useful  medicine for  jaundice, corns,  warts, sore  eyes, toothache,
ringworm and scurvy.

John Parkinson,  in a manual  published in 1640,  writes that he  has it on
good  authority that  any sufferer   from yellow  jaundice will  benefit by
putting a sprinkling  of Celandine herb beneath his  bare feet and treading
it.  But its  influence is  wider still.   If the  heart of  a mole  can be
obtained, cooked  with this herb  and then consumed,  it will vanquish  all
enemies and  win any law suits  that may be contested.  More somberly, when
placed on the  head of a dying man, the  Celandine will disclose whether or
not the sufferer is  bound to lose his fight. If the  man must die, he will
sing out in  a loud voice, but he  will weep if he can  be saved. I thought
that was  interesting indeed. Something that  I simply must try  when given
the unfortunate opportunity.

The Magick Pantry - Celery

Known  traditionally as  smallage, this  plant has  always been  one of the
prime aphrodisiac foods and more will be made of this kind of magick in the
final set, probably located in the Astral_Home echo. The rumour is that the
famous cola drinks contain elements of this particularly stimulating tonic.

Gather the root when it is still green, drench it in the oil of the Cypress
tree and  place the greenery  in a pot  of gruel. Leave  the gruel for  one
year. Worms will appear, and those who  carry these worms with them will be
gentle and kind and able to triumph over their enemies. <I know that sounds
discusting, although it has been said to be quite powerfull>

To  make Oxen  etc, faithfull  and certain  to follow  their masters, tie a
pouch  of  the  celery  herb  around   their  necks.  The  length  of  time
unfortunately was not  specified.

The Magick Pantry - Centaury

The Sun dominates this  herb as it does many of the  other Magick Plants. A
Centaury opens its flowers just as the sun comes out and closes them as the
sun goes  in. Often the Centaury  is described as an  agreeable herb and is
prescribed for Dyspepsia,  but care is advised. If this  herb is mixed with
the blood of a female lapwing or a  black Plover and poured with oil into a
lamp, all those who circle the light will believe themselves to be magickal
and will  live in a  world of delusions,  so it is  stated. Throw the  same
mixture into a fire when the stars  are shining and then watch the heavens.
The stars  will seem to  clash and collide.  Put some of  the herb and  the
birs's blood  on a bandage  and push it  under a foe's  nostril, it is said
that  he/she will  suddenly be  filled with  groundless fears  and run  for
his/her life.

The Magick Pantry - Chicory

Do not despise Chicory or Endive and exile it to some anaemic salad. Endive
was a divinely chosen herb among many cultures. Traditionally, it is a herb
of love. To prepare it and bring it to usefulness, chop the Chicory and let
it dry. Grind it  to a powder and as a love philtre  add it to your food or
drink. (especially to flavour coffees) It  is said to do so without telling
anyone and, if the secret is well kept, this philtre will arouse passion in
the lover  of one's choice. For  good fortune in romance  an Endive must be
carried on  the person. Be  sure to renew  it every two  weeks with a fresh
plant as its period of potency is not more than fifteen days.

Legend states that in certain ceremonies,  if carried out with Chicory, can
make the man who eats the plant  invisible to human view. Crusaders hung it
on their  banners, explorers carried  it as they  wen venturing into  a new
land, and prospectors looking for gold in  California kept a sprig of it in
hand for good luck.

Gather Chickory  at midnight on  the 25th of  July. Force a  sprig into any
lock that  will not open, and  pass another sprig over  parchment bearing a
description  of any  problem to  be solved;  all obstacles and difficulties
will be resolved according to legend about this herb.

The Magick Pantry - Coriander

In  many  religions  Coriander  is  honoured.  Several references have been
documented that the  Gods demanded that this herb should  be used with four
others at  each feast. Its other  uses are not so  godly however. Grate the
seeds into  a glass of  your best, matured  wine. Give them  to a lover and
strong passions will be arroused. But as  the powder is placed in the wind,
the lovers must chant together with the following couplet:

           "Warm seed, warm heart, Let us never be apart"

Nothing else must  be said according to legend. When  the wine is drunk its
influence will be felt sruging in the blood, so it is written.

The Coriander seed is round and has an appearance like that of a small nut.
Its shell is eaisly broken once dried, and has a very pleasent fragrance.

The Magick Pantry - Dill

Like with most  herbs, the myths are endless  for this one as well.  It was
said that many attributed this herb as a cure for the common hiccough. Many
even thought that the  common hiccough was a result of a  witch with a frog
in the throat.

The power of  the Dill shouldn't be taken lightly,  as it should be greatly
appreciated  by any  magician. To  cure the  common hiccough,  stir a small
pinch of Dill into a syrup made  from Black Cherries which have been laying
in  the Magick  Pantry for  at least   (3) days.  When the  powder is  well
dissolved in the liquid/syrup, allow a few drops to trickle down the throat
without swallowing. The hiccoughs will cease.

Dill was also included in many love potions. Here's an old recipe used here
as an example.  Steep a few sprigs in  hot sweet wine. A few  minutes after
drinking on half of a pint, it  is said that passions will be excited.

Dill is also  quite effective in removing negative  energies throughout the
household. As with Basil, the same techniques are applied.

The Magick Pantry - Elecampane

Make a light distillation  of this herb and bathe the face  with it. Do not
use a mirror and trust the herb. It is said that by utilizing this tincture
on  the  face  that  it  will  profit  the  complexion by removing unwanted
blemishes etc.

Elecampane is  of course also  an effective love  potion. Aristotle himself
taught  how to  make them,  using this  herb as  follows. Take  Vervain and
Mistletoe and place these herbs in a  got oven with the Elecampane. Dry and
mingle the sprigs  thoroughly. Pound the three herbs into  a powder and put
this into the food or drink of the one desired. The magickal combination of
each herb bound  together by this process is said  to achieve a potency far
beyond that of your basic aphrodisiac's strength.

The Magick Pantry - Eringo

This unique herb has many benefits, not to mention its tremendous powers in
the healing  plane. It is a  necessary part of any  Magick Pantry, one that
should never be left out.

To heal  broken bones or  simply to draw  out thorns from  lacerated flesh,
make a paste  of the herb by brusing  the root and boiling it  with pig fat
(bacon, fatback etc. although salted lard  works best) Apply the mixture as
a poultice. The  bones will heal, the  thorns will spring out  and the skin
will mend without a any trace of a scar.

Again, this herb has  many benefits. Like most herbs it too  can be used in
Love Potions. To improve a love  affair or invigorate a marriage bed, grind
the  root into  small pieces  or into  a powder.  Add this  to your food or
better  still, to  that of  the uninspired  partner. Legend  says that  the
ancient Greek women always wore a sprig  of Eringo to ensure that they kept
the love of a man.

The Magick Pantry - Ginseng

With the  exception of tea's, Ginseng  is the most celebrated  plant in all
the Orient. The Chinese have great  faith in its curative and strengthening
properties  and call  it the  "Chinchona of  China". The Manchurian Genseng
comes from  the Emperor's mother country,  from the soil from  which legend
says  sprang  the  `God  of  Heaven'.  It  is,  therefore, gragrded as more
efficacious than the Ginseng grown anywere  else. When the plant grows wild
its root  resembles the shape of  the human body, and  like Mandrake, it is
thought to be most appropriate for most any Magickal spell.

Medicinally,  Ginseng  is  a  cure   for  colds,  skin  diseases  and  poor
circulation of  the blood. It's  anti-spasmodic properties relieve  certain
forms of  hiccoughs too, like Dill.  But it is also  a very powerful remedy
for  rheumatism.  When  taken  regularly  it  removes  general  fatague and
promotes good health.  Combined with the juices of a  ripe pineapple, it is
an excellent medication for indigestion.  Ginseng is particularly useful in
the treatment of young children as well as the aged.

Ginseng tea  can be made  from the  dried  leaves or blossoms  of the herb.
After the berries are gathered select the brightest, cleanest leaves from a
mature plant. Place  them above the kitchen stove  in thick bunches turning
and mixing  well until they are  very dry. Store away  in paper sacks. When
the leaves are steeped in boiling water, just like ordinary tea, the liquid
may be drunk with cream and sugar if preferred.

Another recipe for  general use in the home is  the following: Take a piece
of the  root when it is  very hard and dry.  Break it up with  a hammer and
grind it through a coffee mill several  times until it is reduced to a fine
powder. To  three ounces of  the powder  add  one ounce of  milk, sugar and
sixty drops of  oil of wintergreen. Mix all the  ingredients well and store
in a glass jar. The correct dosage  in one teaspoonful to a small teacup of
boiling  water. When  the drink  is cooled  it should  be taken before each
meal. It  may also be  filtered served with  cream and sugar,  and consumed
with the  meal. Made as directed  this is a most  pleasant aromatic tea and
has a  good effect on  the stomach,  brain  and the nervous  system. If the
evening cup  of ginseng is  much larger,  it  is a good  and safe hypnotic,
producing a deep restfull, natural sleep.

I would also  like to point  out that  Ginseng  does not always  have to be
considered as a medicinal herb, as that is simply not true. It is a food, a
plant that can  be consumed as food. Therefore  one should consider Ginseng
as  a food  rather than  a medicinal  remedy. Long  before the Chinese used
herbs medicinally,  they realized the benefits  of Ginseng as a  food. When
the  warring  states   began,  they  began  to  search   out  its  benefits
medicinally. Now that  we are once again a peace  loving lot, we once again
should realize  these `food' related  benefits as opposed  to the medicinal
ones.

The Magick Pantry - Henbane

Mystery has  shrouded this herb for  centuries. Many legends both  true and
false as also  accompanied it for this reason. To  begin with let's discuss
the hard cold  facts.. NEVER play with Henbane. It  is as powerful as Opium
and a  deadly poison if  taken unprepared. NEVER  let a child  sleep near a
Henbane as if he/she does, they will never wake.

Not suprisingly,  it was a traditional  means of putting down  a mad dog in
years gone by. The dog was induced to eat meat mixed with this herb and the
animal quickly died. Curiously, too, if  the juice of the henbane is poured
into a silver cup, the cup will shatter into thousands of fragments.

For those who  enjoy a dish of Hare  in season but cannot endure  the hunt,
the following  is recommended. Mix Henbane  with the blood of  a young hare
and  hang the  hare's skin,  smeared with  the potion,  outside the kitchen
door. According  to English legend,  every Hare from  the neighborhood will
gather there and will not move until  the skin is removed. Truly a Magickal
enchantment, if the legend holds true.

The benefits  of Henbane to human  life are more controversial.  It is said
that if the  feet are washed in Henbane a  peacefull sleep ensues. Sniffing
the flowers can have the same  effect. Hundred of years ago, dentists would
burn Henbane  in a sizzling dish  of charcoal surrounded by  water, and the
desperate  patient  would  be  prevailed  upon  to  inhale  the  fumes. The
charlatan would then claim that he  could see the wicked, achebearing worms
make their escape  from the painful tooth into the  water around the coals.
The chronicler  of this story notes  that the dentist had  usually arranged
for an  accomplice to drop tiny  pieces of lute strings  into the water, as
the  patient closed  his eyes  against the  smoke. When  he looked again he
would feel less  pain, owing to the numbing effects  of the Henbane, and he
could actually see his toothache wriggling in the dish.

Truly an  interesting herb that  does warrent some  serious considerations,
both in the preperation and storage of the plant. Please do be careful when
working with this herb.

The Magick Pantry - Houndstongue

If  you  are  squeemish  please  pass  this  entry  as it's quite detailed,
although an interesting addition to the  Magick Pantry. The herb is however
a part of the pantry.

Whether or not  this herb does neutralize the  bite of a mad dog  cannot be
stated authoritatively. But it is recorded  that when strewn under the feet
of a barking dog Houndstongue will silence the nuisance.. hence the name.

The full spell is a bit more complicated.

Capture  a  frog  (it  must  be  a  young  female)  remove  its  heart  and
reproductive organs and  crush them into the powdered  plant. Put the paste
in an open  dish outside your door or wherever  the annoying dogs choose to
bark. Soon  all the dogs  in the neighborhood  will gather around  the pot.
Take enough sprigs of the herb and push  one under the front toe of each of
the dogs assembled. They will be dumb henceforward.

A more  infuriating yapping  can be  even more  effectively silenced. Tie a
small  sachet of  Houndstongue around  the dog's  neck, where  it cannot be
ripped by the creature's teeth. The animal will turn round and round wildly
and finally drop down in a  state of paralysis, barely distinguishable from
death.

These techniques are  of course totally used at  the magicians own personal
descresion.

The Magick Pantry - Ivy (General)

Ivy should have been planted into the  very stones of the house. It is also
a necessary  part of  the Magick   Garden (see  the Astral_Garden  echo for
details).  When it  has wrapped  itself around  the home,  it is  said that
everyone  within  will  be  well  guarded  against  negative influences and
illness. However,  it is said that  if the ivy withers  and does not thrive
around the outside walls, financial storms will follow.

Old legends tell  us that wine merchants, and innkeepers,  or anyone who is
making wines  or throwing a party,  must have a pring  of Ivy outside their
door. Bacchus  owns this plant and  he will bring special  merriment to any
house where it  is honoured. It is also  said that in doing the  above that
there will be gaiety but no drunkenness.

Another legends states  that if a girl who wants  to find herself a spouce,
takes a  sprig of Ivy,  laying it gently  on her breasts  and repeats these
words, will find her awaited mate.

"Ivy, ivy,  I love thee, In  my bosom I put  thee, The first young  man who
speaks to me, My future husband he shall be.."

It  is also  said that  the concentrated  essense of  Ivy dropped  into the
nostrils will cure the common cold.

In many  religions the Evergreen  Ivy is a  symbol of everlasting  life. To
others, more pessimistic,  the gentle Ivy is a poison.  Which ever view you
choose,  the Ivy  is definately  an essential  accompaniment to your Magick
Pantry.

The Magick Pantry - Lettuce

This is a very powerful plant, homely as it is. Lettuce seems to be woman's
enemy, and is said to be a  chief cause of infertility. Never let more than
twelve lettuces grow in the garden and  never keep more than one lettuce in
the  pantry  or  the  house  will  lack  children.  Legend  sometimes  says
otherwise, although many still swear by this today.

For the Romans lettuce was a good counter to drunkenness and titillated the
sexual appetite  after a good dinner.  The earliest English sources  use in
severe  cases of  insomnia. The  Egyptian Pharahos  prized the  Lettuce and
offered it in worship to the high gods.

It  has been  said that  nutritionally, some  forms of  Lettuce are perhaps
absent  of  nutrients.  It  is  also  documented  that Lettuce contains 70%
vegetable fats  and water, which  unlike popular thought,  is not the  best
choice of dieters using this philosophy.

The Magick Pantry - Lilly

This is  the flower of the  moon and its best  known action is to  cool and
pacify. Medically, its strength lies in settling fevers and particularly in
soothing madness. Freckles and sunburn respond to the gentle application of
the distilled water of the Lilly. In  some phases of the Magickal world the
power  of the  Lily is  somewhat different  however. Some  say it  produces
madness, as  does the moon  herself, although these  cases are few  and far
between.

Again,  the following  may not  be pleasent  for some.  If you  tend to  be
squeemish, I'd simply go to the next entry. <smile>

Gather  the flowers  when the  sun is  in the  sign of  Leo. Mix  the dried
flowers with the juice of the Laurel or of the Bay tree and leave the paste
under a pile of  cow dung. Worms will breed. Catch the  worms, dry them and
make  up a  powder. Secretly  sprinkle this  powder on  the chosen victim's
clothes or  even try to  drop some down  his neck. So  long as this  powder
sticks to him, never again will the enemy rest or sleep. The oil drawn from
the  origional dung  will cause  an instant  fever, if  you can  succeed in
anointing the  victim's brow with it.  However, if the enemy  is just to be
given  a severe  warning, drop  some of  the oil  into his  milk churns and
endeavour to  cover these with  the skin of  a cow of  a single colour. His
cows will dry up till the spell is undone.

As you  can see from the  above, many cultures have  abused the essences of
the  Lily,  which  in  itself  is  a  shame.  The herb/plant is a beautiful
creation  with many  benefits to  mankind. Why  someone would  want to harm
another  using this  addition to  the  Magick  Pantry does  not seem  to be
logical.

The Magick Pantry - Mandrake

The root of Mandragora crudely suggests  the appearance of a man. It hardly
needs saying  that this plant is  probably the most famous  in magick lore.
Superstition decrees that  Mandrake must not be plucked  from the ground by
human hand or else the plant will kill. Instead, a cord was wound round the
plant and then tethered to the collar of a manageable dog. When the dog was
chased, the root was pulled up and a hideous cry was heard to come from the
plant.  Again,  according  to  superstition,  the  dog  did not survive the
ordeal.

Many superstitions  of this nature  shroud this mysterious  herb. The great
sorcer Merlin knew  of ways to call upon the  Mandrake's powers, as well as
the proper  method of harvesting the  herb. Legend has it  that it was from
the Mandrake that Morgan Lefae'  was bewitched into Merlin's dominion. Some
say that they still are incased together for eternity below Stonehenge as a
result of the Mandrake's influence.

It is said that  a little of the juice makes a man  vain. More makes him an
imbecile.  Mandrake  is  dedicated  to  Circe,  the  goddess  of fecundity,
celebrated  for  her  golden  hair  and  notorious  for  her  knowledge and
application  of Witchcraft.  Circe's Island,  the basis  of many legends is
said to hold  the true key to the  Mandrake and it's uses. Although  no man
has ever returned from the island sane, according to legend.

To keep this herb in the house sufficiently guarantees against sickness and
peril. When it was impossible to  find a single uncloven root, again legend
says that  some of the  ancient ones formed  peices of Mandrake  into human
figures. These  also held tremendous magickal  powers. A man would  order a
female form  and a woman  would order a  male form. Each  believed that the
affection of the opposite sex could be secured thereby. Many people burried
their entire  wealth by the  Mandrake plant in  the belief that  the pot of
gold would increase.

Moreover, the  powder is an  indispensable aphrodisiac. Even  the sceptical
Pliny  has no  doubt about  this. In  parts of  Asia the  root was  worn to
increase vertility  and provide protection  against attacks on  the person.
Most magicians  value the potiency of  the Mandrake, and heed  the cautions
thereby.  Many spells  will be  useless  unless  the herb  is burned  as an
incense  while  an  incantation  is  being  chanted.  Never forget that the
Mandrake is supposed to be a living creature, engendered underground from a
dean man's seed dropped on the earth as he was hanged for murder.

The Magick Pantry - Marigold

Taken  as a  mouthwash, this  is  an  ancient remedy  for a  toothache. The
marigold is a well known stimulant too. For hundreds of years, particularly
in Holland, it has been the  favourite flavouring for stews and potions. As
it is the flower  of the sun and a summer flowering  plant, it must be kept
in a dried  state. The ancients believed that the  Marigold's power to turn
with the sun  was a highly magickal property. Rightly  used it would ensure
perfect peace and prosperity to the bearer. But the following spell must be
worked with the Marigold before it can succeed.

Always gather this flower  in August when the sun is in  Leo. Wrap the head
from one of the  flowers in a Laurel leaf or in the  leaves of the May tree
or Hawthorn.  Add a wolf's  tooth. No one  will say a  bad word against the
wearer of this charm. Let him sleep with this small parcel under the pillow
and if any man secretly wrongs him the enemy's identity will be made known.
If a marigold is  left in your circle, or church, it  is said that no woman
that has commited  adultery against a wronged and  faithful husband will be
able to leave the  spot where they stand or sit. If  any spell demands that
the marigold is eaten, make sure that this is done at breakfast time ONLY!

The Magick Pantry - Mistletoe

Legend and  superstition place this plant  on the higest plane  of magickal
power and influence.  Most of us involved in magick,  have heard stories of
the Mistletoe,  or have utilized it  in one fashion or  another. It is said
that to hang  Mistletoe round the neck would  ward off negative influences.
Its habit  of growing on  trees, and particularly  the mighty Oak  has been
attributed  to  the  plant's  anxiety  never  to  touch  the ground. It's a
benefical  exchange as  the Mistletoe  actually protects  the Oak  from the
dangers of lightning.

The Anglo-Saxons  worshipped Mistletoe as a  present form of heaven  and as
the sprem of  the holy Oak tree. It  has been written that only  the Druid,
robed in  white and carrying his  golden sickle, could gather  it, and then
but once a  year during a ceremony dignified by  the sacrifice of two white
bulls. At  this ritual sacred  songs were sung  in honour of  the plant and
prayers to the gods were addressed to  it. Every New Year the Mistletoe was
distributed to each family and  used throughout the following twelve months
as a remedy against all ills and as an antidote to all poisons.

More specific among its uses is its power to open all locks. How to perform
this ritual is unfortunately not recorded in any text that I could find. If
you know or have read it somewhere, I'd certainly appreciate the post.

It has  also been said  to test whether  a man's prophecy  is valid, lay  a
pinch of Mistletoe  mixed with rosinweed on his tongue.  If the prophecy is
true the man will repeat his statement.  Otherwise he will forget it. It is
also a well-authenticated phenomenon that  if the mixture just described is
rubbed into a swallow's wing and the  wing is the left hanging from a tree,
the  birds  from  miles  around  will  spped  to  the  spot and hover there
indefinitely.

Exactly  why anyone  would want  to do  the above  with the  swallow is not
recorded.

The Magick Pantry - Mugwort

This is definitely a female herb and  its medical uses are generally in the
interest of  women. With ordinary field  daisies, it may be  used to smooth
away all hard cysts and bumps that grow in the neck. In medieval witchcraft
and in some  modern traditions, Mugwort could bestow  gifts of Clairvoyance
if respectfully used. One of its names is Witch Herb.

Crystal Gazers/Scryers  valued the plant  and would strew  their tables and
tabernacles with sprigs  of dried Mugwort. The plant's  tendency to lean to
the north  as it grows  made many people  believe that it  was magnetic and
responsive to many supernatural messages.

To  dream about  the future,  take three  leaves of  Mugwort and  tuck them
inside  a hemp  bag. Put  the bag  under the  pillow at  night. After three
nights have passed it is said that one will dream of the days to come.

When a  magician had to be  consulted, they frequently took  a long time to
complete the spell. To prevent fatigue, they would often give their clients
a sprig of Mugwort as they journeyed homeward.

The Magick Pantry - Musk Oil

Never feel  that this is  too exotic for  the larder. Many  spells are made
sweeter  or more  insidious by  the  lingering  scent of  musk. To  bless a
Talisman of Venus and ensure good  health, prosperity and love, Musk can be
utilized in the following ways..

Bring the talisman for blessing on a  friday; come at the tenth hour of the
day or at  the eighth hour of the  morning. Make a fire of  Myrtle wood and
throw Musk  Oil and Lignum  into the flames.  Place the talisman  (used for
defense, protection,  or allurement) in front  of the vessel that  bears an
offering to Venus, and as the incense rises chant the following invocation:

"Conjuro et confirmo Super vos angeli fortes, Sancti atque potentes, Sancti
atque potentes."

After this  invocation a special request  is made and the  Talisman will be
blessed.  It is  important not  to touch  the talisman  until the next day.
Leave it to rest, or the spell will be undone.

As you can see, Musk Oil is  traditionally used in incenses, bath oils, and
elixers  for  love.  This  recipe  simply  allows  the  maker to invoke the
talisman with a purpose.

I would like to add here that  in many traditions, the difference between a
Talisman and an  Amulet is that while the Talisman  is used for protection,
love ect.. the Amulet is usually agressive, and promotes agressive magickal
properties. Do not confuse the two, as the "Purpose" must be clearly stated
prior  to the  invocation of  any magickal  tool.

The Magick Pantry - Myrtle

Out  of  all  of  the  primary  ingredients,  Myrtle  is  one  of your best
resources. If one is ever afflicted by bad dreams sent by one's enemies, it
has been written that Myrtle is the perfect remedy.

Here's what you do:

Make a  small glass of the  liquid and keep it  by the bedside. It  is said
that any  negative night spell  at work will  be cancelled. The  reason for
this is unclear, however based on research and from personal experience, it
is definately worth the effort.

Myrtle was a particular favourite of the goddess Venus. Both the Greeks and
the Romans believed  that the plant contained the  secrets of eternal youth
and passionate love. The theory was  as follows: To gain these benefits for
ever, a brew of Myrtle must be  drunk once every three days since the spell
lasts only that long without renewal.

The  taste  of  the  plant  is  undeniably  disagreeable. It is, therefore,
permissible to mix Myrtle with food. But  mix it only with meat for when it
is added  to another substance  it will taste  of blood. Remember  for this
charm  to work  both lovers  must  eat  or drink  from the  same container,
otherwise no good effect will be felt from the Myrtle.

It is said that for thinning hair, you can use Myrtle berries together with
rosemary, southernwood,  hazel-bark and maidenhair  in equal amounts.  Burn
them together  in a fresh fire  and collect the ashes  carefully. Stir this
powder  into  white  wine  and  use  the  liquid  as a shampoo, rubbing and
massaging into the scalp. make this a daily ritual. <please understand that
this  is not  for those  experiencing Male  Pattern Baldness,  as that is a
totally different  issue all together.  It is rather  used for sudden  hair
loss cases etc. I have to admit however, I've not tested this on myself, so
who knows for sure, it may just work..<smile>>

Some  old cultures  believed that  if Myrtle  was eaten,  it would  empower
anyone to  spot those delving into  evil magickal art forms.  Be forewarned
however,  that most  expert in  these arts  are also  able to counter these
actions. It is not something to play with to say the least.

It is  said that when  a fresh Myrtle  sprig is picked  and crackles in the
hand that the beloved person is always true and faithfull.

Many  legends refer  to this  herb with  affection calling  it the bleeding
tree,  since it  was connected  with blood  and sorrow  in Greek mythology.
Phaedra pricked these  leaves with a hairpin in  her anxious frustration as
she  awaited Hypolytus,  who was  already dead.  The leaves  still bear the
sorrowful marks. Therefore, when storing Myrtle leaves, never crush or bend
them before they are dried or used.

The Magick Pantry - Nettle

Nettle is  an agressive plant with  many properties. The Nettle  in England
was traditionally  supposed to have  been planted by  the Roman legions  of
Julius  Caesar. Unused  to England's  miserable and  freezing climate, they
frequently found their limbs chilled or  even numbed by the frost or sleet.
As a remedy  they plucked the Nettles and then  scorged their legs and arms
with them. After  this they enjoyed the warmth  of the inflammation. Legend
has  it  that  to  hold  the  Nettle  in  one's  hand  <how tightly was not
mentioned> insures one against any fears of hallucinations.

Take some Nettle leaves and mix them  with the common houseleek, which is a
soothing agant against Nettle stings. Anoint the body with this essence and
sprinkle  the  rest  on  any  stretch  of  water  where  fishing  has  been
unseccessful. Then  enter the water  treading with dignity  and respect for
the  magick,  and  the  fish  will  leap  into  your  hands.  If  they  are
unacceptable or too small, just withdraw the hand and the fish will happily
jump back into the water of their own accord.

The Magick Pantry - Orris

This is an ordinary herb to all  appearances but its two magickal uses must
be known. In  the middle ages it was  mixed with food and drink  to promote
love. Ground into a fine dust and blown over the clothes of a loved one, it
will ensure that the lover's affection is returned.

Orris is  a powerful incense  in many magickal  arts. When making  a benign
incantation during  the casting of  a spell favourable  to oneself, sweeten
the breath with an Orris root. Offer a  sprig to a baby, if he takes it and
puts it in his mouth, his teething will  be easy and his whole life is said
to be a happy  one. If he seems to be refusing  it, encourage him, since to
embrace the Orris is to learn to enjoy all that is moderate and pleasant in
life.

The Magick Pantry - Pennyroyal

Any ordinary domestic larder will  certainly contain this common flavouring
even before a Magick Pantry is assembled. But grow the plant in your Magick
Garden. A brew of  the plant is useful as a remedy  for spasms or hysteria.
The oil  will deter mosquitos and  gnats as well. A  garland of the flowers
worn round the brows will relieve giddiness and a swimming head.

By far the most mysterious powers of  the herb possesses bear on the animal
world. Take  some dried Pennyroyal,  grind it with  a stone taken  from the
nest of  a lapwing or  a black plover,  and smear the  belly of any  female
beast with this  powder. The animal will quickly  produce an offspring that
is deep black in colour. An ailing animal can be miraculously healed of any
sickness by sniffing a pinch of Pennyroyal mixture. At first the poor beast
will drop as  if dead but presently it will  rise again completely cured. A
little more  of the mixture placed  among bees will ensure  that they never
desert the hive. Any bees or flies  that have been drowned can be placed in
the warm ashes  of this herb and it  is said that they will  return to life
within the hour.

The Magick Pantry - Periwinkle

Beware of treating this herb as mearly decorative and removing it to a vase
or a display. Recently its strength was further revealed. It was claimed by
some medical opinion  that the Periwinkle or Vince  Rosea, was an effective
cure for  diabetes. More interesting to  most of us is  the power the plant
has to reconcile man and wife and revive their passions.

Note: This may not be appropriate if you are weak stomached. <grin>

To effect this atonement, beat the Periwinkle into a powder and mix it with
earthworms  and  the  herb   named  Houseleek.  Unfortunately,  no  further
information  was available  as to  the  specific  way this  balm should  be
applied, except  to say that  it should be  given with meat  to the unhappy
couple. Furthermore,  put this herb  in the mouth  of a young  bull and the
animal will run amok directly at your enemy.

For  those of  you that  like special  effects at  your circles,  and enjoy
outside fires  within them, sprinkle  some Periwinkle powder  into the fire
and the flames will turn bright blue.

The Magick Pantry - Peony

It is said that  this herb cured the gods injured in  the Trojan wars. From
time immemorial,  the seeds have been  dried and worn in  ticht neckband by
men and  women as a  sure protection against  those that work  in the black
arts.  In Christian  philosophy, it  was Lucifer  himself that was credited
with  the creation  of the  Peony, but  its dedication  has long since been
transferred to the sun. Therefore, work  spells with it only on the seventh
day, and then only after sunrise.

It contains a  remarkable cure for a swimming head  or for those sensations
of unreality that may afflict on at any time. Take the root and the seed of
one and  the same Peony  flower. Ensure that  the weight of  both is equal.
Pound them  together into as  much powder as  will balance a  nutmeg on the
scales.  Now grind  the netmeg,  shake the  powder and  grind it again. Mix
together both  the powders and sprinkle  fine sugar into them.  Put a pinch
under the toungue every morning for a  month. This will steady and calm any
being.

In  Ireland it  is widely  used  and  is helpful  to women  suffering after
childbirth.

The Magick Pantry - The Rose (General)

The Rose is beautiful both in appearance  and in scent. Yes, it is a flower
but it's also considered to be  a very powerfull herb. The magickal effects
of the Rose can be devastating. Take a center from the whole flower or just
one dried petal.  A mustard seed and a weasel's  foot are also needed. Hang
all these together in a hempen bag on  a branch of ANY tree; that tree will
never again bear fruit.

A dried  Rose, entwined  in a  fisherman's net,  will charm  into it a full
shoal of fish. To create an optical  illusion, if illusion it be, take some
of  the origional  Rose and  some mustard  powder and  mix it together with
purest  Olive oil  and a  little Brimstone  <Sulphur>. Sprinkle this potion
over  the roof  and the  outside walls  of the  chosen house.  When the sun
shines this house will appear to be on fire.

The Magick Pantry - Rosemary

It is traditional it is said to  wear Rosemary at weddings. This was always
done in ancient times  and the herb was a much a  symbol of marriage as was
the colour white. The power of Rosemary  is to remind and to bind. For many
years occultists have appreciated Rosemary as a stong agent.

One spell, enabling  a virgin to see her future  husband, had to be carried
out on the eve of St. Mary Magdalene. The herb was dipped into a mixture of
wine vinegar  and water in  a glass dish,  and the juice  was then used  to
anoint  the virgin's  breasts. She  had  to  be accompanied  by two  of her
closest friends  under the age  of twenty-one, who  would then conduct  her
back  to her  bedroom after  the ritual,  all without  speaking a word. The
virgin would then inevitably dream of her future husband.

An alternative to the anointing was for  the three girls to take three sips
of the liquid.  They then fastened a sprig of  Rosemary to their bosoms and
retired  confidently to  bed. All  three would  that night  dream of  their
future husbands and learn the secrets of their lives thereafter.

Rosemary can also be  used to retain or gain power over  a man. To do this,
aquire some  water or wine  already touched by  the man himself.  Place the
Rosemary in four boxes, set out at  the four polls of the compass, (Northe,
South, East, and West) which must be placed in the center of the room. Pour
a little  water or  wine into  each  of  the boxes  and say  the following:
(Again, a Latin translation would be nice)

"Tibi impero ut quaedam viluero, et velim adimpleas et facias"

When two  days have elapsed  take out the  Rosemary, swathe it  in silk and
bury it in  the earth, no less than  six inches deep. Let it  lie there for
three days and then remove the bundle one hour after sunset. Burn the herb,
collect and  powder the ashes. When  this powder is discreetly  placed into
the food or drink of the chosen man, he will return your love.

Rosemary is a  long slender leaf tapered on the  ends. It smells sweet, and
when crushed  it is quite  palatable. It is  also said that  one can make a
Rosemary infusion, to rid the household pet of fleas.

The Magick Pantry - Rue

Many cultures have adorned this herb for  centuries. It is said that Rue is
helpful in rescinding unwanted magickal workings, and to reverse decisions.
It is the  herb of repentance, the herb of  grace. Roman Catholics sprinkle
the petals  of Rue on  the surface of  their holy water.  During a symbolic
ceremony to guard against disease, it is also strewn in some courts of law.
Its uses  in removing negative  entities are astounding.  This includes the
art of excorsism, in some faiths.

Here was  an instruction from a  priest recorded in 1664  that I though was
interesting regarding excorsism. His origin was never mentioned...

To remove the influence of someone's Familiar

First they are  to try the entity by dousing  with prepaired holy water, or
water blessed by the faith. To  this would include the addition of incense,
sulphur, and  rue which from thence,  as we suppose can,  came to be called
herb of  grace, along with  St. John's wort  which therefore they  call the
evil out, yet they may do good to the patient.

Other uses would be to make a tea  and some incense from Rue. Drink the tea
and burn the incense simultaneously. Although Rue is not an aphrodisiac, it
has been  known to attract a  desireable lover, clear the  mind, and enable
one to solve many problems.

The Magick Pantry - Sage

Many  traditions  utilize  this  powerful  herb  in  many  ways.  Of these,
smudging, incenses, as  well as cooking are among  the most popular. Again,
this herb must  be grown fresh. <see the Astral_Garden  echo> Never use the
remnants  of your  cooking supply  for magickal  workings. Red  Sage is  an
exotic plant  in spite of its  conventional uses. The herb  may be used for
throat gargles and mouthwashes, but it also has many magickal properties.

This  magickal working  is not  for those  that are  squimish. (I  found it
interesting, and am in hopes that others will as well.)

Dry, purify and select the best pieces of the plant and put them in a small
pile of cow dung on a glass  dish. If discretion and respect are used, soon
a worm will  issue forth or  perhaps a bird  with black tail  feathers. The
blood of  the creature that  wriggles or  hops  out of the  glass vessel is
powerful and  dangerous. Place a  drop of it  on the brest  of anyone to be
disposed  of. The  person will  loose  his/her  wits and  feel nothing  for
fifteen days  or more. Once  the magick creature  is killed for  its blood,
burn the  carcass and collect  the ashes. Scatter  them on a  fresh fire. A
magnificent rainbow will appear in the sky and a horrible thunderstorm will
follow. If a woman wishes to dominate her home she must grow plenty of sage
in her garden.

The Magick Pantry - Snakeweed

No herb is stranger in its powers than Snakeweed. It is also called Bistort
and under this name  it was used by doctors as a  gargle and as a treatment
for haemorrhages. But regard it as Snakeweed and treat it accordingly.

One legend says... Bury a sprig of it  in the ground with a leaf of Clover.
Red and  Green snakes will spring  out from this patch  of earth. Catch and
kill them and dry their skins. Make a powder out of them and scoop a little
of hte  substance onto a  burning lamp  in  a darkened room.  Again red and
green  snakes, wreathing  and coiling  in multitudes,  will sprout from the
light. Place the same powder under the sleeping head of any man troubled by
recurring dreams and he will never again dream of himself.

The Magick Pantry - Spikenard

This  plant  is  more  common  in  North  America  rather  than Europe, but
international legend has  much to say about its  powers. It is particularly
well  known in  the German  occult world.  But the  herb originally grew in
India and it  has a deep history and significance  among the Hindus. In the
Christian  faith  for  example,  the  Bible  claims  that  Jesus Christ was
anointed with ointment distilled from Spikenard.

It is a most useful herb to keep a lover faithful. Take a sprig of the herb
and try to make the lover touch  it with his right hand. Better still, make
him/her  wear it  for a  short  time  against his/her  heart. Retrieve  the
Spikenard and enclose it in a leather  pouch. Tie the bag very securely and
bury it in  the ground. The best place  to do this is within  the circle of
stones in the Magick  Garden. As long as the bag remains  in the earth, the
lover will be true.  Check the bag twice a month, for  on those occasions a
new sprig of Spikenard must be added to continue the spell.

The Magick Pantry - Suntull

This  root  can  be  acquired  under  the  name  of skunk cabbage or meadow
cabbage. It has both the appearance and the reputation of being a nasty and
anti-human herb. Medically,  its only use seems to  be for producing saliva
and  helping to  calm fevers.  But  to  the magician,  its powers  are more
precise and more important.

Take a Suntull leaf which must have been gathered on a Sunday in August, on
hour after sunrise. Fold a single  yellow dandelion flower within the leaf.
Around this a  bayleaf must be wrapped. Carry this  talisman in your pocket
to guard  against those who  wish to do  you harm. Every  person henceforth
will become a friend and justice will be obtained in any court of law.

The Magick Pantry - Tonka Beans

These beans  are native to  Guiana so some  hardship may be  experienced in
acquiring  them.  But  their  uses  are  various  so  it  is  worth wile to
persevere. They are important in the  making of incense on account of their
strong  and lasting  smell. To  consume them  is a  perilous venture, since
their power is  to paralyse the heart. However, when  the bean is used with
caution, its power is good.

Take one or three  of the beans and put them in a  locket or pouch. To give
the cham grace and greatly added power, attach a cross (made of wood, metal
or other substances, just as long as it's not a crucifix) Aquarian Star, or
a Pentagram/Pentacle to  the chain on the  locket. To make a  more powerful
talisman <used  for positive purposes>  or an Amulet  <used for destructive
purposes> pierce the bean  at the sharp end and thread it  with a thin gold
wire. Onto this  wire tie a golden cross, or  any of the above suggestions.
Try to use a wishing stone or tool as this will bring about greater power.

Charge this amulet or talisman with  a purpose, and release the energy into
the  universe. It  is said  that  by  carrying this  talisman, you  will be
protected against even the greatest  harm. Likewise, if employing an amulet
the same is true only in the agressive nature.

The Magick Pantry - Vervain

Many traditions utilize  this powerful herb in many ways.  Here are some of
the more interesting possiblities...

It  is  certainly  a  strong  drug  and  widely  used  as  a  tranquilizer.
Traditionally, a weak Vervain water creates merriment among the guests at a
formal gathering. An  old custom was to steep Vervain  in hot water, strain
off the herb itself and diluting the solution further, to use the liquid as
a detergent or  a spray around  the home. It  was said that  all negativity
would be  kept at bay  by its use.  The water was  commonly referred to  as
Juno's brew. The dry herb has often been carried as a charm against similar
forces.

To cure fainting  fits, gather the herb when  the sun is in Aries.  Mix the
dried substance with  a pinch of Peony or  a single Peony pod which  is one
year old.  The brew will  remedy the sickness.  If the herb  is buried in a
garden, after eight  weeks worms will be engendered.  These worms are fatal
to the  touch. A sprig  of the plant,  placed in a  dovecot, will keep  the
doves happy and stop them from flying  away. If a man keeps two mistresses,
a pinch of this powder will set the two women at each other's throat.

Vervain  is not  the best  smelling herb  out there,  especially if you are
going to steep it.

It is said that Vervain is so powerful that if it were able to make contact
with the sun that it would turn blue, if it were to ever be taken there.

The Magick Pantry - Whale Oil

This is an important ingredient in the Magick Pantry. No this isn't the oil
from the whale, although in old times, it was. Today it is mostly Crocodile
oil or the distillation of some organ  from a reptile that is used. Certain
spells  that you  may come  across will  reference this  type of oil. These
substances  are getting  harder and   harder to  purchase. Hardly  a single
delicatessen still stock reptile produce.

Here are some uses for Whale Oil..

To end  the irritating croaking of  frogs in the Magick  Garden or to drive
away howling cats (as we have all heard from time to time) you can cast the
following spell:

Melt some wax that has been bleached by Sunlight and add a little Whale Oil
from an earthenware jar. Put the mixture  into a clay vessel and lower into
it a sturdy wick. Light the magick lamp  and put it on the edge of the pond
or on a doorstep. No frog will croak  again and no cat will dare to howl at
night, when this has been achieved.

The Magick Pantry - Wild Teasel

This is  a mysterious and important  herb to keep in  the Magick Pantry. It
comes third  in the magick  order of plants,  but it is  rarely found in  a
garden. It's power is unquestionable... the  proof is found in tis capacity
of produce pregancy in animals.

The traditional spell demands Mandrake juice. Mix this fertile essence with
the prepared  liquid of the  Wild Teasel. Give  the mixture to  a bird or a
beast and it  will presently produce healthy young of  its own kind. But do
not give  thanks to the Mandrake  alone. Fear the Teasel  for it can create
discord. The secret of this reprehensible power is a dangerous one and must
be carefully handled.

A tooth recently extracted from the gum is needed. Drop the tooth into meat
or drink prepared with Teasek, and quarrels and fights will begin. Only the
calming Valerian can soothe the tumult.

The Magick Pantry - Wormwood

Myths  and legends  surround this  herb as  well. It  was said  that as the
serpend writhered  its way in flight  from this Garden of  Eden, this plant
sprang up in  its trail. Its power is great,  not only agains halitosis and
worms, but also against mouse bites  and attacks by jellyfish, Anomoes, and
particularly the Portuqese Man-of-War's.

This herb dedicated to Artemis, it has long been employed in ceremonials to
raise the dead, Necromancy.. if you will. It has also been used to conspire
with the  lower negative entities of  the underworld by many  magicians. In
such rituals  Wormwood must be burned  on glowing charcoal and  the incense
will work the spell. Sometimes the powdered herb is placed in a folded cone
of  black paper  and the  paper is  lighted at  the tip.  But this  must be
performed only  at the dead of  night. As the smoke  rises, cry out, invoke
the name or names of the desired departed, or entieies and ask them to make
their  presence  known.  Provided  that  the  necessary  apparatus  can  be
constructed, the spell will work better if the fuming incense is swung from
side to sid on a pendulum.

To cure the plaque magicians used to  mix Wormwood with rue, plunged into a
pint of ale  with a slice of lemon  and left overnight. In the  morning the
brew  was drunk  in one  draught without  other food  or drink. The patient
sually rallied.

The Magick Pantry - Conclusion

As you  can see, there  were many  items  necessary in order  to stock your
larder. Please keep in mind that  these were suggested items. Each magician
has their  own personal collection, some  which may not have  been included
here. This was provided to give you a guide or to start your pantry.

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

