
Transcriber's Note:  The following is the text of a pamphlet being
widely distributed by Lyndon LaRouche's organizations and followers on
the subject of Satanism and the occult.  Photo captions follow their
respective sections. All errors in spelling and history are those of the
authors.  The address given at the end for The New Federalist is P.O.
Box 889, Leesburg, VA 22075.

________________________________________________________________________


I S   S A T A N I S M   I N   Y O U R   S C H O O L Y A R D ?


Published by THE NEW FEDERALIST                                 Price $1

(On the cover:  A publicity photo from the rock group KISS, whose
initials mean "Knights in the Service of Satan"; Satanist Robert
McNamara, the former president of the World Bank; First day of school in
a U.S. small town.)



     WILL SATAN DESTROY WESTERN CIVILIZATION?

     Satan is alive and well in the streets, schoolyards, daycare
centers, and playgrounds of America. In all its varied and diverse
forms, a Satanic virus is eating away at the very foundations of our
civilization. If we don't wake up to this virus right now, we will all
be consumed by it, and this country as we have known it will cease to
exist.
     Just consider the following facts, which are available lo most
people who watch TV or read a newspaper or a popular magazine:
     Some police experts estimate that as many as 50,000 young children
per year disappear in the United States. Many of these children are
lured into a satanic underworld where they are subjected to cruel
sado-masochistic tortures; some are ritualistically murdered.
     So pervasive is the spread of satanic cults today that dozens of
competing satanic computer "bulletin boards" exist, bearing such names
as "Weirdbase" and "Baphonet." If your son or daughter has a personal
computer with access to a telephone line, he or she may have already
plugged into one of these bulletin boards and become part of a satanic
underground that lists locations and events of more than 750 different
satanic covens, bookstores, New Age centers, etc. servicing every state
and every mediumto-large size city and town in the United States.
     It is getting hard to identify a place where children can go today
where they are absolutely protected from the invasion of satanic forces.
Day care centers, such as the McMartin Preschool in Los Angeles County,
are now accused of being havens for pedophiles (child molesters) preying
on the very youngsters they were being paid to protect and educate. Even
the day care center at the U.S. Army base at the Presidio near San
Francisco was the scene of over 50 child rapes in a one-year period.
Among the suspects was an active duty reserve lieutenant colonel who
enjoyed Top Secret security clearance from the Pentagon, although he was
and still is the High Priest of a satanic church, the Temple of Set (the
Egyptian name for Satan).
     Even the public grade schools have been invaded. In many schools
around the country, teachers permit and in some cases encourage students
to play the satanic fantasy game "Dungeons and Dragons." "D&D" involves
real life action that has in more than one instance led a child to take
his or her own life or to kill a friend.
     Many of the satanic fronts listed in the various New Age computer
bulletin boards and published directories, are themselves creations of
international pedophile rings scouting for unsuspecting and vulnerable
children whom they can grab up for their lurid rituals.
     The mass scale emergence of Satanism in America over the last
half-dozen years could not have been possible without a 25-year campaign
by some of the world's most powerful and corrupt financial institutions
and world federalists to spread mind-destroying drugs into every corner
of our society.
     Today, America is the world's largest market for illegal
mind-destroying drugs. Well over half the worldwide $500 billion a year
trade in dope goes on in the United States. The target population is
growing younger every year, with the latest, and most devastating form
of cocaine, "crack," now targeting children 9-12 years old. The vast
majority of inner-city drug dealers are teenagers--in most cases grade
school dropouts recruited by the promise of a thousand dollars a day to
join Satan's Army and destroy our nation's future.
     Drug-related violence has reached astonishing proportions in our
country's inner cities. Gangs bearing such satanic names as the "Bloods"
and the "Crypts" turn their drug profits into vast arsenals of heavy
duty weapons.
     The rock music industry, which was instrumental in the launching of
the drug-rock counterculture, in the last several years has pioneered
satanic rock, worshiping every form of perverse evil. One British
satanic rock group proclaims in its latest record, "In Gorbachov We
Trust." An American satanic rock group, AC/DC, was the inspiration for
Richard Ramirez, the "Night Stalker" who ritualistically raped and
murdered dozens of young women in a yearlong rampage in southern
California.
     Ramirez boasted to his police captors that he worshiped Satan.
     Beginning in the late 1960s, once millions of high school and
college age youth had been lured into the drug-rock
counterculture--through such mass media extravaganzas as the Beatles and
Rolling Stones appearances on the Ed Sullivan TV show, the Woodstock
festival, the Haight-Ashbury "summer of love," the Broadway smash hit
rock opera "Hair"--the social engineers steering "Operation Satan" began
peddling the "sexual revolution" which said that lesbianism and
homosexuality were "liberating" forms of behavior.
     Put the pieces together. First, the creative capacities of the
nation's youth--truly their most prescious possesion--are destroyed by
drugs. Next, the sexual identities of millions of Americans are thrown
topsy turvy by a culture that extols the virtues of homosexuality. And
finally, Satanism, the worship of Evil, emerges as a new religion.
     In the face of this final onslaught against the most basic family
values that sustained the nation for its first two hundred years of
existence, we are beginning to see a resistance emerge. In many
communities around the United States, churches, police departments, and
civic groups are beginning to sound the alarm bells over the growing
presence of satanic agencies. A nationwide outcry is beginning to be
heard. The right questions are beginning to be asked.
     In the following pages, we shall probe the satanic revival.  We
shall identify the names of some of the key figures who have peddled
this new worship of Evil. Some of them are international power brokers
who deploy the satanic legions from above. Some are actual practitioners
of the satanic rituals that they seek to spread throughout society.
     In the vast majority of cases, the advocates of Satanism are also
enthusiastic backers of the new Soviet dictator Gorbachov. Almost all
are apostles of world government tied in one way or another to the
United Nations Organization. Far from being a nameless and faceless
enemy, the satanic plotters are known, identified and publicly
accessible.
     As the American patriot Lyndon H. LaRouche Jr. put it on numerous
occasions, the question is not who the enemy is what he is up to.  The
question, today more than ever, for the American people is: Do you have
the moral fitness to survive.  In this most challenging case, to survive
the satanic plot to destroy Western Civilization once and for all.

(Photo caption: A billboard in North Carolina advertises for a missing
child.  Many missing children may in fact be victims of Satanists, while
the target population for the rock-drug counterculture is growing
younger by the year.)



     LUCIFER AND SATAN STALK THE STREETS OF AMERICA

     The Episcopal Cathedral of St. John the Divine, near Columbia
University in Manhattan, is the seat of the High Anglican Church in
America's upper crust metropolis. Bishop Paul Moore, the present head of
the New York Episcopal archdiocese, is from one of America's oldest and
wealthiest blue blood families. The Most Venerable Order of the Hospital
of St. John, an ancient chivalric order headed by a member of the
British Royal Family, the Duke of Gloucester, is headquartered at the
Cathedral.
     Despite--or maybe because of--these "oh so social" credentials, the
Cathedral of St. John the Divine also happens to be one of the major
centers for the spread of Satanism and satanic sexual violence in North
America.
     Consider the following:
     Bishop Paul Moore's Cathedral is the formal headquarters of the
Temple of Understanding, a United Nations-affiliated New Age Gnostic
religion project that peddles every form of neo-pagan and satanic and
Luciferian varieties of "religion" available. Not surprisingly, the
Temple of Understanding's political orientation includes its recently
sponsoring a series of Soviet-American shindigs, including a "February
Fling" last year that honored 100 prominent Soviet officials then
touring the United States.
     The Temple of Understanding, according to an aide to its current
director, the Very Reverend Dean James Morton, dean of the Cathedral, is
a closely affiliated outgrowth of the Lucis Trust, formerly called the
Lucifer Trust. Founded between 1920 and 1922 by Alice Bailey, an
Episcopalian who became a leading disciple of the Russian theosophist
Madame Helena Blavatsky, the Lucis Trust has been devoted to advancing
the Luciferian beliefs that, in Blavatsky's words, "oppose the
materialism of science and every form of dogmatic theology, especially
the Christian , which the Chiefs of the Society regard as particularly
pernicious." Lucis Trust puts foward a pagan form of theosophical
religion that worships an "External Hierarchy" of "Ascended
Masters"--human beings living and dead--who say they carry out the work
of a Luciferian "master plan" for the establishment of a permanent "Age
of Aquarius" (Lucifer) that would replace the centuries old "Age of
Pisces" (Christ). For them, the "Age of Pisces" refers to the Christian
era. In this scenario, Lucis Trust figures point to Soviet leader
MikhaiI Gorbachov, the man with the "Mark of the Beast" on his forehead,
as one such "Ascended Master."
     The Cathedral also formally sponsors Lindisfarne, a medieval New
Age community on Long Island that was founded by the late Dame Margaret
Mead, a Temple of Understanding leader, and her husband Gregory Bateson.
Lindisfarne is a center of witchcraft. Both Mead and Bateson were
seminal figures in the launching of the satanic New Age from the 1960s.
Bateson was a major figure in the CIA's MK-ULTRA LSD-25 experiments that
actually launched the "acid rock" culture, the immediate precursor to
today's satanic rock phenomenon.
     Back in the 1960s, when he was Secretary of Defense under the
Kennedy and Johnson administrations, Robert Strange McNamara was an open
member of the Lucis Trust front, the Temple of Understanding. According
to articles published by investigative writer Edith Roosevelt in the
Manchester Union Leader in 1963, McNamara practiced Luciferian rituals
such as "bathing in the full moon" on Roosevelt Island along the Potomac
River. Luciferians, who nominally distinguish themselves from Satanists
by their belief in "white magic" as opposed to "black magic" ("good"
versus "evil") believe in the mystical powers of the Sun, which are so
great that they can only be absorbed indirectly--through the practice of
"bathing in moon beams." Hence McNamara's regular midnight flings on
Roosevelt Island whenever there was a full moon.
     After leaving the Defense Department and with his subsequent
appointment as president of the genocidalist World Bank, McNamara
oversaw a systematic program to "do Satan's bidding" by depopuIating the
Third World through murderous austerity measures that have claimed
millions of lives.  So much for the distinction between Lucifer and
Satan.
     Bishop Moore himself has a horrid background: Prior to his arrival
at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, Bishop Paul Moore was a leading
patron of the notorious Jim Jones in the years leading up to 1961 in
Indianapolis, Ind. His People's Temple was promoted there by Moore and
the Methodist now Bishop, James Armstrong. Along with Rabbi Maurice
Davis, now of Westchester, N.Y., they gave Jones his original
Indianapolis temple site, and sanctioned his acceptance among the
Indianapolis clergy as a "legitimate" religious leader.
     Once in New York City, Moore introduced the New Age "sexual
revolution" into the church by sanctioning lesbianism among the
Episcopal clergy. Moore personally broke the "sexual barrier" by
ordaining militant lesbian Ellen Marie Barrett as an Episcopal priest in
1977. Barrett told Time magazine that her lesbian love affairs gave her
the "strength to serve God."
     In the late 1970s, several sources reported that Canon Edward West,
an aide to Bishop Moore, was a frequent patron of some of New York
City's seediest sado-masochistic "private clubs," where be would engage
in such ritualistic practices as having young boys urinate on him while
he lay naked in a ceremonial bathtub. One such club reportedly
frequented by Canon West was the Mineshaft, a renovated warehouse in
Manhattan's wholesale meat district, run by organized crime interests
linked to John Zaccaro, the husband of Walter Mondale's 1984
vice-presidential running mate, Geraldine Ferraro. Such child-sex abuses
as those alleged to Canon West are indications of a practicing Satanist.

MEANWHILE, ACROSS THE ATLANTIC...
     From the dark secrets of the New York Cathedral of St. John the
Divine, the scene now shifts across the Atlantic, to Trieste, Italy, a
city on the ltalian-Yugoslav border that the newspaper La Stampa has
described as the "capital of the Masons." It is just after the New Year
1989, and Alessandro Moncini, wealthy international businessman,
political insider, and reputed leading member of Italy's darkest
freemasonic lodge, Propaganda Due (P-2), has returned to his "beautiful
Trieste" after spending slightly less than three months in a California
jail.
     Moncini was arrested March 18, 1988 on charges of having imported
child porn into the U.S.A. However, according to phone tap transcripts
and other evidence leaked by frustrated U.S. law enforcement officials
to the Italian newspaper of record, La Repubblica, the Moncini case
actually involved a worldwide child slavery and child murder ring
servicing an overtly satanic wing of the trans-Atlantic aristocratic
"jet set." At least one of the phone tapes was between Moncini and
Anthony Crowley, a U.S. porn king. Moncini was overheard negotiating the
purchase of young girls who were to be "whipped " "chained," sodomized,
and eventually murdered in what La Repubblica described in an
understatement as "a satanic night."
     At the trial, Judge Richard Lew refused to allow the tape
recordings to be admitted as evidence. Nevertheless, Moncini's
conviction under the U.S. Child Protection Act carried a potential
30-year jail term and a fine of $1 million. Perhaps Judge Lew was swayed
by "character reference" letters on Moncini's behalf from nearly 40
prominent members of the Trieste establishment, including from the Roman
Catholic Bishop of Trieste and the Vice President of the Trieste Region.
     Undaunted by the slap-on-the-wrist treatment meeted out by the U.S.
courts, two top police officials from Trieste have reportedly traveled
to the United States in search of evidence "to prove the existence of a
most exclusive club of international pedophiles" believed to be
protected by secret lodges within the upper degrees of certain branches
of international freemasonry.

A SATANIC WAR IN THE ELITES
     Although it would be a gross overstatement to equate all masonry
with the practice of Satanism, there is compelling evidence that among
the elite circles of freemasonry there is a satanic core. Indeed, the
European landscape has been stained in recent years with the blood of
prominent aristocrats, bankers, and politicians who have been
ritualistically and savagely murdered for violating their "blood vows."
For example, on Jan. 27, the Financial Times of London reported that a
Milan judge had just ruled that the 1982 death of the director of the
Milan-based Banco Ambrosiano, Roberto Calvi, was actually murder. Calvi
had been a leader of the Freemasonic P-2 lodge that was under
investigation for operations aimed at overthrowing the government of
Italy. Calvi was found hanging from Blackfriars Bridge in London in 1982
shortly after his name emerged in the P-2 scandal. Calvi's death had all
the earmarks of a ritualistic execution, carried out by a Scottish Rite
Freemasonic court. Indeed, at the time, Italian officials had
characterized the Calvi death as a ritualistic murder, despite efforts
by a British coroner to sweep the death under the rug as a suicide. The
P-2 scandal itself erupted as a direct outgrowth of the failed attempt
to assassinate Pope John Paul II, an attempt widely attributed to both
Soviet bloc secret services and Western Gnostic "anti-Christ
underground" circles.
     The decision by the Milan court to revive the Calvi murder issue
was widely read as a signal that the Freemasonic Wars have resumed.
     In fact, a few days after the Calvi ruling, on Jan. 31, 1989, a
prominent member of the Bourbon royal family of Spain was assassinated
in Vail, Colorado. Prince Alfonso de Borbon Dampierre, a first cousin of
King Juan Carlos of Spain and the pretender to the defunct throne of
France, was killed on the ski slopes when a cable was lowered on him as
he was skiing at high speed. Eyewitnesses described it as murder. An
international arms dealer, the prince had close ties to Argentina and
provided crucial arms shipments during the Malvinas War against England.
Exiled in Italy throughout the Franco period, the prince was known to
have strong ties to the Vatican.
     Over the previous several years, a number of prominent European
politicians, including two West German state minister presidents, Uwe
Barschel (1987) and Franz Josef Strauss (1988), died under mysterious
circumstances that also bore the pawprints of Freemasonic ritualistic
executions.
     In the case of Strauss, he died at a remote Bavarian hunting lodge
owned by the Prince Johannes von Thurn und Taxis.

THE TRAPEZOID AND THE PENTAGON
     There are other branches of Satanism. On Aug. 14, 1987, the San
Francisco Police staged a raid on the Russian Hills home of Lt. Col.
Michael Aquino, an active duty U.S. Army Reserve officer, and his wife
Lilith. The raid was in response to allegations that Aquino's home had
been the scene of a brutal child rape of a four-year-old girl. The
principal suspect in the child molestation, a Baptist Minister named
Gary Hambright, was indicted in September 1987 on charges that he
committed "lewd and lascivious acts" with six boys and four girls
ranging in age from three to seven years old. At the time of the alleged
incidents (police believe Hambright, was responsible for 58 separate
incidents of child rape during 1986), Hambright, was employed at a
child-care center servicing the U.S. Army base at Presidio.
     According to an article in the Oct. 30, 1987 issue of the San
Francisco Examiner, one of the victims had identified Lt. Col. Aquino
and his wife as participants in the child rape.
     According to the victim, the Aquinos had filmed scenes of the child
being fondled by Hambright, in a bathtub at the Aquinos' Russian Hills
home. The child's detailed description of the house in which the
incident had occurred led police to the Aquino residence, which doubled
as a satanic church, where they confiscated 38 videotapes, photo
negatives and other evidence that the home had been the hub of a
pedophile ring operating in and around the army base.
     For reasons that still remain cloudy, Aquino and his wife were
never indicted. Aquino claimed that he had been in Washington. D.C. at
the time, enrolled in a year-long reserve officers course at the
National Defense University. Despite his absence from the Bay Area,
Aquino had maintained his Russian Hills residence-church--and had made
frequent trips back to the West Coast.
     As the result of the flap over the Hambright indictment and the
raid on the Aquino home, Lt. Col. Aquino was transferred from the
Presidio, where he had been deputy director of the reserve training
program, to the U.S. Army Reserve Personnel Center in St. Louis, Mo.
     To this day, Lt. Col. Michael Aquino (USAR) maintains Top Secret
security clearance. Queried by the San Francisco Chronicle, a Pentagon
public affairs officer, Maj. Greg Rixon, told reporters Bill Wallace and
John Whitinger "The question is whether he is trustworthy or can do the
job. There is nothing that would indicate in this case that there is any
problem we should be concerned about."
     Major Rixon was not only responding to a question about Aquino's
suspected role in the pedophile ring at Presidio. Also at issue was
Aquino's position as High Priest of a satanic cult called the Temple of
Set. Founded in San Francisco as a 1975 split-out of the decade-old
Church of Satan of Anton Szandor LaVey, the Temple of Set is now
headquartered in St. Louis and claims a hardcore membership of
approximately 50 disciples, many of whom are believed to be active duty
military personnel in the Bay Area and Georgia.
     The apparently small size of the Temple of Set, if the published
membership estimates are accurate, belies a much larger degree of
penetration by Aquino. Among the projects of the Temple is a computer
data base and "bulletin board" called "Weirdbase." Anyone with a
personal computer and a telephone interlink can "plug into" "Weirdbase"
and access a nationwide network of satanic covens, bookstores, and New
Age service centers that penetrate into nearly every community in the
United States. Aquino's "outreach" extends into the millions in the
United States alone, and he is also part of an international network
centered out of Leeds, England's Sorcerers' Apprentice Bookstore that
services an estimated 40,000 Satanists or satanic "fellow travelers"
"dabblers" in 66 countries on every continent.
     According to Aquino's own published writings, the Church of Satan
and the Temple of Set are direct outgrowths of the late 19th-century
satanic revival, sponsored by Madame Blavatsky, and more specifically,
by one of her disciples, British pervert and Satanist Aleister Crowley,
the founder of the Golden Dawn movement.
     In Aquino's own words from a Temple of Set recruiting document:
     "It was not until the late 19th century that the so-called 'Black
Arts' began to be tolerated, and then only in their most sanitized and
pious form. From Freemasonry came a ceremonial magical offshoot--
Rosicrucianism--which became increasingly more sophisticated in the
Rosicrucian Society of England (S.R.I.A.) and then in the famous
Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn (G.D.).
     "In 1904 an Adept of the G.D. named Aleister Crowley broke away
from that disintegrating body to form his own Order of the Astrium
Argenteum (A.A.). To the Rosicrucian ceremonial, magical philosophy of
the G.D., Crowley added first a strong emphasis on attainment of the
highest level of self consciousness ('Knowledge and Conversation of the
Holy Guardian Angel') and later the Masonic sexual, magic practices of
Germany's Order of Oriental Templars (O.T.O.). The latter practices,
together with Crowley's cavalier lifestyle, brought him public
notoriety. His organizations survived his 1947 death only in highly
fragmented and doctrinarily degenerate factions."
     Then there is Anton Szandor LaVey.
     "In 1966 the San Francisco sorcerer founded the Church of Satan as
a medium for the study of the Black Arts and as an ethical statement
repudiating the religious hypocrisy of conventional society. ...
     "The Church suffered periodically from petty crises and scandals
among the general membership, and finally Anton LaVey lost confidence in
its organizational viability. In 1975, he made a decision to redesign it
as a non-functional, insincere showcase for his personal glamorization
and financial income. This decision was emphatically rejected by the
majority of the Priesthood, who immediately resigned from the Church in
protest and denied its legitimacy as a true Church of Satan henceforth.
The senior initiate, Michael A. Aquino, invoked the Prince of Darkness
in quest of a new Mandate to preserve and enhance the more noble
concepts which the Church of Satan had conceived and outlined. That
Mandate was given in the form of The Book of Coming Forth by Night--a
statement by that entity, in his most ancient semblance as Set,
ordaining the Temple of Set to succeed the Church."
      LaVey, a former circus lion tamer and San Francisco Police
Department crime photographer, founded the Church of Satan in 1966.
LaVey's Church of Satan thrived on the drug-rock counterculture of the
late 1960s and founded "grottos" in most major cities around the United
States. LaVey is probably best known for his appearance in the role of
Satan in the satanic movie, "Rosemary's Baby." Such Hollywood
celebrities as Jayne Mansfield (the victim of an automobile crash that
LaVey claims was the result of a "curse" that he cast on Mansfield's
manager), and Sammy Davis Jr. counted themselves among Lavey's satanic
cohorts.
     Another Lavey intimate, moviemaker Roman Polanski, was the husband
of actress Sharon Tate. Tate was murdered by the Charles Manson "family"
in one of the earliest and most celebrated incidents of satanic
ritualistic murders. Manson had been in and around the Bay Area circles
of LaVey just prior to the murder spree, which he described as the
launching of "Helter Skelter," a mystical string of brutal ritualistic
murders that were to trigger a race war in the United States that would
bring about the coming of the Anti-Christ.
     Although no one ever explicitly linked LaVey to the Manson cult
murders, in a moment of candor, LaVey told the Washington Post in
February 1986:
     "Satanic rock lyrics, satanic movies, even the satanic murders ...
all grew from the Church of Satan." In fact, Lavey's Satanic Bible was,
by the early 1970s, an underground bestseller, with an estimated 500,000
copies sold in the United States alone.
     Former disciples of Aquino and the Temple of Set charged in 1982
that the Army reserve officer had recently steered the group into a
virulently neo-Nazi direction, extolling the virtues of Hitler's own
occult beliefs and even staging a ceremonial event at the Bavarian
castle where Heinrich Himmler had staged pagan rituals. Indeed, Aquino
also referenced three pre-Nazi fascist terrorist groups including the
infamous Thule Society as the "models" upon which he had established the
Temple of Set.

A TOP-DOWN PHENOMENON
     The purpose of this series of "snapshots" of key locations of the
satanic landscape is to make the point that Satanism has not merely
emerged as s "natural sociological" outgrowth of the drug-rock culture
of the past twenty-five years. Its prominent emergence as a serious,
organized form of social decay, has been nutured--top down--by powerful
forces within the Western establishment. Not coincidentally, many of the
leading pro-Satanists and practitioners are the leading enthusiasts of
Soviet dictator Mikhail Gorbachov's "New Age" of world government and
Russian cultural domination.
     It will take a book to trace the actual evolution of this satanic
revival. But, for the time being, it is essential that the readers of
this pamphlet develop a clearer picture of the nature of the beast and
the need for urgent action to stem the tide of the cultural collapse
before the Age of Satan is fully upon us.

(Photo caption: Bishop Paul Moore of New York's Cathedral of St. John
the Divine, which formally sponsors witchcraft centers.  Moore's own
background includes having been a patron of the notorious Jim Jones and
his People's Temple.)

(Photo caption: Aleister Crowley, the Golden Dawn's most notorious
member, in a 1907 photo.  His teachings are now the basis of a Church of
Satan, and a Temple of Set, whose leader Lt. Col. Michael Aquino has Top
Secret security clearance in the U.S. Army Reserve.)



     SATANISTS LOVE GORBACHOV, WHO WEARS
     THE MARK OF THE BEAST ON HIS FOREHEAD

     The theosophical Lucis Trust has effusive praise for Soviet
President Mikhail Gorbachov, who is viewed as one of the hidden
"Hierarchy" that is in the process of building a "new world order." The
Lucis Trust-affiliated, German-language magazine 2000: Magazine for New
Consciousness labels Gorbachov "the pathfinder for the new
consciousness." In the same article, it details a prophecy by the mystic
Edgar Cayce: "From Russia, comes the hope of the world." Likewise,
American "New Age" guru Chris Griscom is quoted in the magazine after
his return from Russia: "Gorbachov is the man who represents the future.
His life is a present to us."
     The magazine goes on to note that the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution was
really an expression of the Narodniki ("People's Will," the
bomb-throwing anarchists, who were part of the back-to-the-land movement
of the day) and the Raskolniki ("Old Believers" of the Russian Orthodox
Church). The magazine states: "The Russian Revolution was, what is often
not said, a product of spiritual policy. Its main exponent was the
Narodniki, the friends of the people ... who preached in a mystic
adoration, Mother Russia, Holy Russia. By this, they revived archaic
nature-religion. They promoted the 'Mir,' the communal society. The
Narodniki thought that, in the Mir, there was the heritage of a former
Golden Age, the heritage of the mystic."
     The magazine then reports that Vladimir Lenin had been part of the
Satanist project in Ascona, Switzerland, where he was famous for his
ecstatic dances. Ascona, where a cult of Astarte held sway, was the
spiritual center for C.J. Jung, whose Gnostic classes in the 1920s-30s
included among his disciples Alice Bailey, the Madame Blavatskytrained
Theosophist who founded the Lucis Trust under the name Lucifer Trust in
1920, when she broke from Theosophy. It is also notable that Lenin,
together with Lunacharsky and Maxim Gorky, immersed themselves in the
Mithra cultism of the Emperor Tiberius on the Isle of Capri, where they
studied the relevance of paganism and the Roman Empire to Bolshevism in
the grotto of the emperor's villa. It was the Emperor Tiberius in whose
reign Christ was crucified, and scratching beneath the surface, one
discovers that Bolshevism is not "godless communism," but yet another
expression of the Biblical "Great Whore of Babylon" cultism. The present
love affair between the Lucis Trust and assorted "New Age" enterprises
in the West with Mikhail Gorbachov is merely a lawful continuation of
this ancient relationship.
     There are several "New Age" groups and individuals involved in the
East-West exchange of Satanism made possible by Mikhail Gorbachov's
glasnost.
     The Temple of Understanding on April 11-15, l988 co-sponsored a
Global Conference of Spiritual and Parliamentary Leaders on Human
Survival in Oxford, England, attended by such notables as Temple
president James Park Morton, who is co-chairman of the ongoing Global
Forum. In attendance was Yevgeni Velikhov, vice chairman of the Soviet
Academy of Sciences, together with three other Soviet Central Committee
members. The next conference will be held in l990 in Moscow, where it is
being sponsored by the Supreme Soviet, the Russian Orthodox Church, and
the Academy of Sciences. The Global Forum's steering committee held an
Oct. 17-18, 1988 meeting at the publishing house of the Moscow
Patriarchate of the Russian Orthodox Church to plan this event.
     In February 1988, the Temple of Understanding hosted a
two-week-long February Fling at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in
New York, where dozens of Soviets were feted by the American Liberal
Establishment.
     Father Louis Dolan, a Catholic priest who is on the board of the
Temple, planned the February Fling. Father Dolan travels to the U.S.S.R.
about every six weeks, and he is also on the board of the Wainwright
House, the oldest spiritual development project in the U.S., which has
had extensive East-West projects. At Wainwright House, Father Dolan is
coordinator of the Institute on Global issues Citizen Diplomacy Missions
to the Soviet Union; there are over a dozen separate "New Age"-style
trips planned by Wainwright House to the U.S.S.R. in 1988-89.
     Father Dolan is also on the board of the Center for Soviet-American
Dialogue (CSAD), which has co-sponsored a Citizens' Summit last held at
Wainwright House. The next summit, which is to be held in Moscow on Oct.
19-29, 1989, will be hosted by the Soviet Peace Committee, an official
front of the KGB-connected International Department of the CPSU. On the
board of the CSAD with Father Dolan are such notable "New Age" Soviet
exchange types as Barbara Marx Hubbard of the Soviet-American Council
for Joint Projects and Win-Win World; Willis Harman, whose Institute for
Noetic Studies will take part in the Moscow Global Forum (above) and who
is a member of Hubbard's Soviet-American Council for Joint Projects;
and, James A. Garrison, executive director of the Soviet-American
Exchange Program at the Esalen Institute, which has been traced to KGB
espionage penetration of U.S. intelligence and military layers,
employing Soviet "spoon-benders."
     The Lucis Trust is sending its own "fact-finding mission" to the
Soviet Union during 1989. Not only is the Lucis Trust connected to the
"Russian spirituality" of Okhrana agent Madame Blavatsky, who founded
Theosophy to overturn Western Christianity, but Lucis already operates
behind the East bloc through its covert "Triangles" front that conducts
astral meditation.

(Photo caption: Helena Petrovna Blavatsky: She founded Theosophy to
overturn Western Christianity, and she was an agent of the Okhrana, the
Czarist secret police.)

(Photo caption: Mikhail Gorbachov at the United Nations on Dec. 7, 1988:
He is much admired by the Lucis Trust, the one-worldist club based at
the U.N. which was originally named Lucifer Trust.)

(Sidebar:)

     ANGLO-AMERICAN SATANISTS

     The best-organized Satanist forces operating presently inside the
United States include The Lucis Trust. This is the leading, putatively
respectable Britain-based Satan cult (it worships Lucifer).
     The Lucis Trust, which runs the only religious chapel at the New
York United Nations headquarters, The Temple of Understanding, was
originaly founded as the Lucifer Trust, in London, in 1922. The Lucis
Trust associated with the UNO is the New York affiliate of the British
organization. the name was changed from Lucifer Trust, to Lucis Trust,
to make the nature of the organization less conspicuous.
     The Lucis Trust's leading sponsors include the following prominent
figures:

 Henry Clausen, Supreme Grand Commander of the Supreme Council, 33rd
     Degree, Southern District Scottish Rite Freemasons
 Norman Cousins
 John D. Rockefeller IV
 The Rockefeller Foundation
 The Marshall Field family
 Robert S. McNamara
 Thomas Watson, Jr. (IBM, former U.S. ambassador to Moscow)

     Prominent front-organizations sponsored by the Lucis Trust, include
the following:

 The Theosophical Order of Service (founded by Annie Besant in 1908)
 The Theosophical Society (founded by Helena P. Blavatsky in 1875)
 The United Nations Association
 The World Wildlife Fund U.K.
 The Findhorn Foundation
 Greenpeace
 International Greenpeace U.S.A.
 Amnesty International
 The Nicholas Roerich Society (chief connection to Russian mysticism,
     spirituality)
 The Anthroposophists of Rudolf Steiner
 The Rudolf Steiner School
 UNESCO
 UNICEF
 The American Friends Service Committee



     THE THEORY OF THE SATANIST PERSONALITY

     by Lyndon H. LaRouche, Jr.

     During a period of approximately the past two years, avowed
Satanist cults, such as the Ordo Templi Orientis (OTO) and Wicca, have
conducted a vigorous recruiting drive. Apparently, youth are the stratum
chiefly targeted for recruitment.
     This is the third escalation of recruitment efforts observed by
this writer during the period beginning with the launching of the
Beatles and mass-proselytizing for LSD-25, in 1963. The second
escalation appeared during 1969-1970, with encounter-group recruitment
to homosexual and to "neo-malthusian" cults. The most recent recruitment
escalation, during approximately the past two years, is establishing
hard-core Satanism as a mass-based political force in North America and
Western Europe.
     During the most recent period, hundreds of new OTO and Wicca cells
have come to the surface inside the U.S.A. alone. This list does not
include nests which appear to be simply knots of devotees for the
OTO/Wicca-directed "heavy metal" variety of Satanist rock groups.
     There are other symptoms. There is an alarming rise in the
incidence of certain kinds of social phenomena directly associated with
increases in organized Satanist activities: disappearing children,
incidents of pedophilia, murders with cultlike features, and suicides
among teenagers and younger children.
     Such phenomena are specific to the "religious" ritual of the OTO
sect, but not OTO alone. The question is: to some degree, crimes such as
pedophilia, and so on, as well as teenage suicides, are perpetrated by
persons who are not involved with Satanic practices. What portion of the
increase in such horrors should be attributed to Satanism?
     The cult-rituals of the OTO are written into their manuals.
Sometimes, as in the pattern of the "Atlanta child-murders," features of
the crime point to the authorship. In addition, there is a significant
amount of direct proof, that the rise in such statistics is directly the
result of OTO and kindred forms of Satan-cult activity in locales where
the statistical pattern points in such directions.
     There is also an ominous increase in circulation of literature and
related Satanist propaganda activities. The spread of Satanist belief-
structure behavior, such as cabalism, and the increase of Wicca-linked
astrology activities, are collateral.
     A criminologist's report indicates that, in Western Europe,
approximately one in five of the murders committed in current periods is
the work of Satanists. It is also estimated that approximately 85
percent of school-age youth in West Germany have been exposed to
Satanist activities.
     These and related developments have brightened the spotlight on the
control over OTO, Wicca, and "Heavy Metal" Satanist rock-groups exerted
from very high places in society. One example of this is the
Lucifer/Lucis Trust, an Anglo-American association of Satan-worshiping
theosophists with the highest possible levels of participation and
backing in the New York City area. The Episcopal Cathedral of St. John
the Divine, whose diocesan organization under Bishop Paul Moore is
itself a national center of Satanist organizing, is significantly
integrated with the Lucis Trust's organization and activities there.
     In the United States as a whole, apart from that situation in the
New York U.S. headquarters of the Anglo-American Liberal Establishment,
the entirety of Satanist activity is coordinated under the umbrella of
the influence of Friedrich Nietzsche, Aleister Crowley, and leading
Fabian Society figures such as H.G. Wells and Bertrand Russell. This
umbrella has the name given to it by Nietzsche and Crowley: 'The Age of
Aquarius."
     Marilyn Ferguson's 1980 The Aquarian Conspiracy documents her
patron, Willis Harman of Stanford Research Institute, as one of the
national coordinators of Satan-cultism in the United States, and
identifies the Fabian Society's H.G. Wells as a key intellectual
influence in the work of this cult. In all essentials, Ferguson's claims
are verified by independent investigation.
     This goes back much earlier than the 1963 launching of the
mass-recruitment drive for the Beatles' rock and LSD-25. It goes back to
the roles of such as Gregory Bateson and Aldous Huxley in the CIA-
cosponsored MK-Ultra operations of the 1950s. It also goes back to the
founding of the so-called "Frankfurt School" (The Frankfurt Institute
for Social Research, of such as Marcuse, Horkheimer, Habermas. and
Adorno). Adorno's influential work on the "authoritarian personality,"
is the origin of the New Left, and was based on a proposal by then-
Comintern agent Georg Lukacs, to attack the (Christian) cultural
paradigm of Western European civilization, as indispensable to preparing
the way for future "Bolshevization" of Western nations. Lukacs, Adorno,
et al. were Satanists drawn from circles of Satanists.
     It goes back much earlier, to the Hell-Fire Clubs of mid-eighteenth
century Liberal England, to meddling in cabalism, Rosicrucianism, and
black magic by the circles of Francis Bacon and Thomas Hobbes--and Isaac
Newton, too. It goes back much further.
     However, it is not the purpose of this report, to go into organized
Satan cults and their pedigrees in further detail. The foregoing,
introductory observations are supplied to situate our topic. We address
a crucial, but limited aspect of the matter of Satanism. What happens to
the human mind, to transform a person of certain weakness of character
into something which is not human, a Satanist? Who are these Satanists,
what are they, and what must we expect them to be likely to do?

WHY SATANISTS ARE WORSE THAN CRIMINALS
     The very bad criminal is typified by the thief prone to brutality
against victims during the course of his thefts. His primary objective
is the theft. Contrast this wicked fellow with a criminal who engages in
thievery of the same sort, but whose primary motive is the orgiastic
pleasure of sadism performed, and the thievery only a secondary motive.
That latter fellow may not be a professing Satanist, but the difference
underlined by this comparison is key to understanding how a Satanist's
mind is organized.
     Suppose that a fellow behaves in the second way, but makes a kind
of religion of that sort of behavior. He recognizes that what he does is
evil, but he delights in the fact that he is doing evil. This fellow is
a Satanist.
     Consider another comparison.
     Put customary morality and law aside for a moment; consider only
psychology. In this view, any person who consorts with prostitutes is
showing a weakness of character. Forget for the moment, that this
behavior is immoral . Psychologically, it is a symptom of a weakness in
his character-structure. He is not necessarily a criminal type, he is
not necessarily immoral in any other very obvious way.
     Now, let us take another person who consorts with prostitutes, but
tends to include a sadistic sort of criminal impulse in his relationship
to the prostitute. Usually, or merely on some occasions he is with a
prostitute, he can secure no orgiastic satisfaction of the degree he
requires, unless he perpetrates nasty indignities upon the poor woman,
or even some savage cruelties, too.
     Let us imagine that this sadist in sexual affairs is the same sort
of thief, beyond the ordinary sorts of bad criminality, we defined in
our first comparison. In this case, when this person, acting ostensibly
as a thief, torments or kills a male victim, for example, the torment
and killing of that victim has the psychological overtones of an
orgiastic homosexual rape.
     Now, examine, if you have the stomach for it, the manuals of
Satanist Aleister Crowley, or the Crowley followers in the Ordo Templi
Orientis (OTO). Crowley and the OTO are offering to the type we have
just identified a "religious" ritual which proffers limitless
possibilities of orgiastic degradation, in the same general
psychological direction we have indicated by combining the two
comparisons.
     Consider the following telephone conversation, recorded by the U.S.
FBI. The dialogue is monstrous, but in dealing with Satanists we are
dealing with a foul subject-matter.
     The person asking the questions is a Trieste industrialist, named
Sandro Moncini, visiting the U.S.A. at the time this recording was made.
On Oct. 8, 1988, Moncini was sentenced to a year in prison on a charge
of importing pornographic material. The following recording was not
introduced in evidence in that trial. Just recently, the same Moncini
was released on "good behavior," returning, a freed man, to Italy, to
continue doing as he pleased.
     The subject of Moncini's questioning in the following is a
ten-year-old Mexican girl.

     Q: (Moncini) What can I do to this little animal?
     A: Everything.
     Q: Can I chain her?
     A: Sure.
     Q: Whip her?
     A: Yes.
     Q: Can I make her eat shit?
     A: I don't know.
     Q: Can I piss in her mouth?
     A: I think so.
     Q: Also stick nails in her nipples?
     A: Yes.
     Q: And if the little animal gets broken or hurt?
     A: Just make the traces and the body disappear.
     Q: What will it cost me?
     A. $5,000.

     It is to that mentality that Satanism appeals. More important, that
is the kind of personality which Satanist indoctrination and rituals
produce in the initiate who became involved in the cult merely,
initially, out of a sense of naughty playfulness.
     That is what proliferates, if we continue to permit Satanist cults
such as Wicca and OTO to recruit a mass-based movement in our society.

THE HUMAN PERSONALITY
     From the standpoint of Leibniz's science of physical economy, the
characteristic fact which sets mankind apart from and above the beasts,
is our species' generation and assimilation of scientific and
technological progress. The faculty, by means of which this feature of
human existence is expressed, is the human individual's developable
capacity for those rigorous forms of creative thinking we associate most
readily with valid fundamental scientific discoveries.
     The existence of this potentiality in every human being, even in
the sometimes moving expressions of this by individuals of greatly
reduced capacity from birth, is the proper functional definition of
"human nature." In other words, that which sets being human apart from,
and above the beasts.
     This intellectual potential is complemented by the human
individual's capacity for what is variously termed "sacred love," agape,
or caritas. In those moments we are engaged in more intense forms of
productive creative mental activity, we experience this feeling of
sacred love more intensely. We recognize this in the joy enveloping a
child's personality in moments of the child's own successes in creative
problem-solving. We recognize it also in connection with expressions of
love for God, for mankind, for truth, and for classical forms of beauty.
     When these two capacities, creative powers and sacred love, are
efficiently joined so as to express a common purpose, we meet the
essence of a healthy human nature expressed in the degree of development
of the person's moral and intellectual potentialities.
     The case of valid fundamental scientific discoveries points most
directly to a very special kind of associated feature of human nature.
Whenever an individual contributes such a discovery to society, he or
she is acting directly upon that society as a whole, implicitly
increasing the potential of the present generation, and adding a new
layer of achievement upon which posterity will base its more advanced
contributions.
     His or her act reaches through the extent of the present, and into
the future; it also reaches efficiently into the past. Every
contribution by our ancestors, is essentially an incompleted action. Its
good is something accomplished, but it is also the creation of a
possibility to be realized by later generations. Insofar as we realize
such possibilities implicit in the contributions of our predecessors, we
increase the meaning of the whole lives of all among those predecessors
who contributed to such possibilities.
     What a wonderful irony! In one respect, it appears that each of us
is but an isolated individual within that sea of people which is the
society as a whole. We individuals are so very mortal, the extent and
breadth of our personal activity so fragile and brief a whisper in the
billions of human beings who today constitute a single generation. Yet,
such a fragile individuality is capable of universal efficiency, acting
directly upon the society as a whole, and reaching efficiently to both
future and past generations.
     This capacity is not limited to great scientific discoverers. How
broadly, and across how many generations have Bach, Mozart, and
Beethoven already reached so directly? The greatest classical poets and
dramatists have done the same. Even the parents who seem to accomplish
nothing more notable to the world at large than fostering the
development of their children, are performing universal acts in that
way.
     In former times, about a generation or slightly more past, it was
not uncommonly our great pleasure to observe the moral insight exhibited
by a pre-adolescent child, a child who had already a choice of future
profession, and who described that profession in terms of the good for
society which could be accomplished by such means.
     At our best, we reach toward the possibility of contributing
something universal out of our mortal lives. In such moments, we are
delighted to be alive, because we know that our mortal life as a whole
is a good to be respected by future generations.
     When it is our efficient desire, that we live in a society in which
every person is dedicated to that sense of the universality of the
individual, we humans are generally at our best; we are in a state of
mind which most nearly approximates the goodness and happiness of being
an individual human being.
     Consider a different sort of member of our species. Where we prize
agape, that person's greatest pleasure, and need for pleasure, is
destructive rage. Where we need the joy of developing ourselves, that
one takes orgiastic pleasure in becoming worse. This characteristic of
the latter person, is the raw material of Satanism.
     The influence of pro-satanic forms of organized behavior has always
been promoted within civilized society, by aid of a specific sort of
dualism. This dualism is introduced to a civilized culture, by aid of
insisting, as Descartes and Kant did so influentially, that the
existence of intelligible forms of human reason is limited to the forms
of deductive logic. On this account, everything not commensurable with
deductive formalism is relegated to the occult domain, as Descartes did
with his deus ex machina, and as Kant denied the intelligibility of
those creative-mental processes by means of which valid fundamental
scientific discoveries are effected. In both cases, that which is
excluded from deductive formalism, is relegated to the domain of
irrational forms of arbitrary assertions, as Kant's follower, Karl
Savigny, prefigured Adolf Hitler's Nazism by declaring an hermetic
severance of Naturwissenschaft (physical science) from the rest,
Geisteswissenschaft.
     Once such a dualism is established as belief, the ground is made
fertile for the Satanist's recruiting efforts. It is sufficient to
assert the hostility of the irrational to reason, and to adopt the
destruction of reason for the sake of the absolute freedom of
irrationalism. So, in modem Germany, Max Weber and Martin Heidigger
express the essential germ of Nazism, and through the channels of such
agencies as the Frankfurt School of Horkheimer, Adorno, et al., the
expression of irrationalism as the organizing of proto-satanic and
satanic cults.
     The proto-Satanist asserts that his irrationalism is freedom and
that reason, by putting limits upon the expression of irrationalist
impulses, is authoritarian, the adversary of what Heidigger identified
as the "freedom of the inner self." It is sufficient, that such a
follower of Heidigger, for example carry this hatred of the
authoritarian personality to its natural conclusion, to transform a
follower of Lukacs, Horkheimer, Heidigger, or Adorno into a personality
of the Satanist type.
     Look at that child, beaming with happiness, who has just solved,
for the first time, some conceptual problem of simple play with blocks.
That happiness, akin to the quality of sacred love, expressed in such
terms of reference, is a simple expression of the essence of true human
nature. What sort of person is it, that might defy his or her own
essential human nature?
     In each case studied, such as the pathetic Max Weber, for example,
there is a conspicuous defect in their character. They are characterized
by a pervasive sense of personal failure. The "failure" is not a want of
wealth, or social status otherwise. It is a sense of "inner failure" as
a personality. The laments of a Kierkegaard or a Jean-Paul Sartre typify
the case. The anarchist, the existentialist generally, typifies the
syndrome. The hideous rantings of a Nietzsche are attractive to persons
of such weak character, because they offer a "sense of liberation" from
those constraints which reveal one's own character to be a weak one.

THE CASE OF THE ROMANTICS
     The Romantics generally, are representative of this. As
illustrations of the Chardinesque "omega points" which are the gateway
from existentialist irrationalism into Satanism, the Romantics combine
the dualism of Kant, as Savigny did, with the sheer irrationalism to
which Savigny's neo-Kantianism lends license. The case of the composer
Richard Wagner, is among the best examples of the manner Satanism and
Romanticism are linked.
     Richard Wagner was introduced to Satanism as young Karl Marx was,
as a recruit into the orbit of Giuseppe Mazzini's "Young Europe." During
the period of 1848-1849, Wagner was a Mazzinian bomb-thrower, in the
circle of fellow-Satanist and Mazzinian bomb-thrower Nikolai Bakunin.
Bakunin later became an enthusiastic apologist for Wagner's musical
standpoint, as one committed to destroy, especially, the Ludwig
Beethoven Wagner hated.
     After the events of 1848-49, Wagner developed a typically Romantic
sexual obsession toward the wife of the man who supplied him refuge, an
obsession expressed in the GnosticSatanist eroticism of his Tristan und
Isolde. His music-dramas were devoted to the Satanic myths of the
Bogomil cult, and his method of composition was devoted to a radical
form of irrationalism, the replacement of reason (counterpoint) by
arbitrary chromatic progressions of the sort carried to an extreme in
the Liebestod (love-death) duet of Tristan.
     In the end, in his Ring cycle, and the Bogomil mythologies of his
Parsifal, Wagner became the overt Satanist whom Bogomil and Satanist
Adolf Hitler admired so orgiastically.
     The significance of Tristan, is that it echoes a very clear defect
in Wagner's personal character, the flaw in his character out of which
his development as a Satanist grew.
     Other Romantics of talent, such as Hugo Wolf, show the same
weakness of character. Wolf's musical accomplishment was his ear for
poetic prosody; he had great literacy in reading musically the prosodic
score of a classical poem. This shows out even despite the wildly
irrationalist, Wagnerian chromaticism of his songs. Goethe's notorious
weakness of character, that, but for the period of his collaboration
with Schiller, the alternation of active and fallow periods was
associated with the acting out of sexual fantasies, is the flaw which
led the late Goethe into the Faust theme, and the wild Gnosticism of
Faust II. Goethe's Werther is his Tristan in this respect.
     The progress of the influence of Satanism is typified by the
comparison of Wagner with Arnold Schoenberg. Schoenberg was a failed
Romantic-style composer, in every way a failed personality within
himself, as well as in music. This led him into what is termed today a
kind of "mid-life" crisis, out of which emerged the ugly stuff for which
he is presently famous. That poor wretch would have died in the artistic
equivalent of a pauper's grave, but for the intervention of the Satanist
Adorno on his behalf.
     The Beatniks of the immediate post-war period, are an example of
the connection between the failed personality and the propensity for
Satanist recruitment. All of the rock groups are examples of severely
damaged personalities, whose appeal is to the sense of being "damaged"
among their audiences.
     The appeal of Satanism to its recruits is in the form of what
psychology terms a "reaction formation." There are three ways to live
with oneself, under the grip of a profound, existentialist, weak sense
of personal identity. One is to overcome the impulses within one which
cause this condition. Another is to accept the condition: "That is the
way I am, and I will not be changed." A third is to destroy everything
in society which, in the fashion of a mirror, shows one one's own sense
of inadequacy: anarchism, shading into Satanism.
     The existentialist's sense of personal inadequacy, that his
existence is intrinsically meaningless, is not limited to the poor soul
ever whimpering within himself, like some frightened, hungry stray dog.
It is associated with strong impulses for forbidden acts, as
Kierkegaard's account of a fantasy-seduction illustrates the point.
Inside the whimpering exterior, there is a raging, feral beast, which
believes, or strongly desires to believe, that "life is meaningless, and
everything should be permitted." This beast is a sado-masochist, who
requires the perverted pleasures of orgiastic expressions of
sado-masochism as an antidote to the whimpering boredom of moments when
such exotic diversions are not being experienced. The whole is permeated
with a degraded sexual character.
     Satanism addresses appeals to that perverted sense of lust within
the defective personality-type, the whimpering existentialist: Life is
meaningless. Everything is permitted, if it is done on behalf of freedom
of the inner irrationalist self. Destroy every feature of a culture
which would restrain us from that "freedom," and which, worse, tends to
mirror to us the worthlessness we sense our existence to be.

THE WANING OF RELIGION
     From the standpoint of secular society, Western Christianity
expresses in a distilled, concentrated way, that which is most natural
for true human nature. Man in the image of Christ, as Thomas a Kempis
stresses this, the individual as in the image of the living God, is what
the Christian church affirms in its communicants. What is celebrated,
and so affirmed, is not that aspect of the human individual which
imitates the possibilities of the beasts, but rather that which sets the
human individual apart from, and above the beasts: the potential of
development of the creative powers of reason, in conjunction with that
quality of "sacred love" which the original New Testament text
identifies as agape, in Latin, caritas.
     Respecting the matters of mortal life, this essence of Christianity
as religion, is echoed in a republic committed to those principles of
Christian natural law which informed our own Declaration of Independence
and Preamble of our federal Constitution. The mutual obligation of the
society and the individual, to develop the creative potential and moral
character of each and all, to provide opportunities for useful
expression of that which has been so developed, and to cherish and
nurture the good contributed to society by each and all, is the point on
which the practice of statecraft comes into efficient practical
coincidence with the Christian living in the imitation of Christ, all
the way through his own personal Gethsemane, should matters come to
that.
     On both accounts, the churches and the society have lost these
essential qualities of commitment, and in more or less the same degree.
This erosion has not occurred spontaneously, but the effect on the
development of the personal character of the members of society is the
fact of the matter, whether this had occurred spontaneously, or as the
effect of calculated erosion of those institutions by hostile agencies.
     These two institutions of our Christian society, the church
committed to an individual life in imitation of Christ, and the society
dedicated to the same principles in practice, have been an essential
part of the development of the personal character of the individual
member of society. To the extent either, or both such institutions have
abandoned their proper mission, or have been partially destroyed by
hostile influences, the society is deprived of the benefit of those
institutions. The result is an increase of the incidence of persons of
weak character, and in the degree to which such weakness proliferates.
     From the beginning of Christianity, powerful forces have been
committed to effecting an erosion of Christianity and its influence.
Within Europe and the Americas, this began as an undertaking by the Magi
priests of the cult of Mithra; out of such efforts to destroy
Christianity and society from within there emerged early the dogma of
Gnosis, a dogma which has assumed various nominal guises, including its
influence in the guise of varieties of pseudo-Christian cults.
     The influence of Gnosticism has not been limited to its activities
in the guise of religious belief. Modern philosophical Liberalism, such
as that of David Hume, Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill, is pure
Gnostic cult-dogma introduced in a secular disguise.
     To the degree Gnosticism appears in the guise of pseudo-Christian
cult-dogmas, it veils the fact that it is a form of Satan-worship, by
means of a form of trickery characteristic of Satanist occultism, by
resort to what is termed symbolic philosophy. It embeds the worship of
Satan symbolically in the way it purports to represent to the credulous
a true interpretation of the secrets behind Christian texts. Gnosticism
is form of veiled Satanism. Modern theosophy, and Nazism and Bolshevism
are Gnosticism which has dropped its veils, to become the explicit
worship of the mother of Satan, Shakti-Ishtar-Isis, and her son,
Siva-Satan-Baal-Lucifer.
     Over the centuries, powerful families bent upon eradicating the
kind of institutional forms of society which Christianity and true human
nature require, have recognized that the person of weak character in
society can be recruited to a force for evil, a form of evil like the
ancient Phrygian cult of Cybele-Dionysos. Until now, the most famous,
large-scale eruption of such Satanist mass-organizing was the New Dark
Age of the fourteenth century.
     That New Dark Age came to its depths over approximately a hundred
years of systematic erosion of society under the combined influence of
Lombard usury and Gnostic recruiting and related subversions. Society
was overwhelmed from within, by massed hordes of satanic degenerates
recruited from among the weak personalities of its own nations.
     Today, over a period of more than a hundred years since the circles
of John Ruskin, Fyodor Dostoevsky, and Friedrich Nietzsche popularized
the satanic Age of Aquarius, Western European civilization has undergone
an experience which parallels in essential features the process of
degeneration of Europe leading into the fourteenth century's New Dark
Age. The spread of explicit Satanism, through aid of agencies such as
Adorno's Frankfurt School, and its dogma of "the authoritarian
personality," has now entered a phase of largescale mass organizing.
     By attacking Christianity with Gnostic subversions, while eroding
the state's commitment to Christian natural law's rightful governance of
the policy-shaping of nations, the enemy has deprived much of the
population of its right to a healthy development of the individual
personality. The proliferation of cruelly damaged, defective
personalities, fostered by the subversion of church and state, has
fostered an abundance of that specific sort of emotionally and morally
crippled personality we meet in the existentialist. The proliferation of
such damaged personalities, under conditions in which the state has
generally abandoned all Christian standards of moral accountability in
its domestic and foreign policies, has engendered a pervasive mood of
cultural pessimism among all our nations, a quality of pessimism which
fostered the rise of Bolshevism in Russia, and Bolshevism's twin, the
German Dostoevskian, Adolf Hitler. The present proliferation of
defective personalities, combined with the circumstances of increasing
cultural pessimism, has produced the optimal preconditions for
mass-organizing by the Satan cults.

THE TRANSITION TO THE NON-HUMAN
     The shift from the conscience-stricken, whimpering existentialist,
to the creature committed to a life of orgiastic pleasure in
destructive, irrationalist rage, is a process of transition from the
condition of a damaged human personality, to something which is
literally non-human. It is fair to describe this, as analogous to the
transformation of healthy tissue into a malignantly cancerous growth.
     The difference between human nature and the nature of the Satanist
is not a matter of degree, but absolute, discrete. The two are as
different as healthy tissue differs from its malignantly cancerous form.
To be exact, the difference is as great, and no greater.
     For the case of the convert to Satanism, "exorcism" is strictly
necessary. There are two distinct personalities within the Satanist. One
is the human substrate, the other is the Satanic personality which has
been superimposed upon that substrate, like a cancer dominating the
tissue it has invaded. The cancer is a distinct entity, which must be
removed. To remove the cancer, one must invoke something analogous to an
immunological potential still present in the substrate. In effect, the
substrate must be impelled to reject the cancer. The result is, quite
literally, the casting out of a demon which had taken over the body and
psychological substrate of the victim .
     The "demon" is very real, and readily identified in the proper
choice of encounter. The demon, cornered, is pure destructive fury,
hatred, and rage in their extreme. In some cases, several distinct
"demons" may he sharing the premises, each the fruit of the victim's
conditioning to playing the part of different personalities under
varying circumstances, and this especially in cases in which techniques
of hypnosis are  part of the history of the case.
     Thus, the devotee of Satanism has a human substrate, which might be
activated to reject the superimposed "cancer" under some circumstances.
The possibility that that substrate might be activated to such effect,
is the only vestige of human nature in that creature. The premises are
under the immediate control of something which is anti-human, something
properly described as a "demon."
     This demon is created within the Satanist initiate, in a way akin
to the process implied in the comparisons we identified at the outset of
this report. This transformation is described fairly, as the outcome of
the effort by the victim's will to pursue orgiastic destructive
pleasures for the sake of going deeper and deeper into such pleasures,
and to make this possible by crushing every vestigial influence of
conscience which might tend to deter such acts, or impair the sense of
pleasure taken from them. The force turned against conscience, is a
concentration of destructive fury, something beyond the ordinary notion
of irrationalist rage.
     The original human self is virtually killed, or, endungeoned to
ensure absolute control over the premises by the demon of orgiastic
rage.
     The point is, that organized Satanism is capable of anything a
demon is, and is inclined to do so as soon as possible. Such a force
must be destroyed. Either that force is obliterated, or civilization.

(Photo caption: A rock performance emphasizing beastiality, in New
York's Central Park, on behalf of various pro-Soviet "peace" and
"environmental" groups. Inset: Richard Burt, former U.S. ambassador to
West Germany, one example of a fanatic devotee of "heavy metal rock" in
a very high position in government.)

(Photo caption: "Baby at Play" (1876) by the American artist Thomas
Eakins. We recognize the emotion of sacred love, or "agape," in a
child's personality in moments of the child's own successes in creative
problem solving.)

(Photo caption: Das Rheingold by Richard Wagner, in a 1983 public
television performance. Wagner's music dramas were devoted to the
Satanic myths of the Bogomil cult, and his method of composition was
devoted to a radical form of irrationalism.)

(Photo caption: Fyodor Dostoevsky (l) and Friedrich Nietzsche (r): They
led the campaign to popularize Satanism a century ago.)

(The appeal of Satanism to its recruits is in the form of what
psychology terms a "reaction formation." Pictured: a scene in New York
City.)



     'WE ARE IN THE MIDDLE OF SPIRITUAL WARFARE'

     (Speech by Dianne Core to the International Martin Luther King
Tribunal, Rome, Italy. Dianne Core heads England's Childwatch, an
organization which investigates child abuse.)

     About 20 years ago, a group of very powerful Satanists in Europe
gathered together and started an initiative that was to devastate the
whole concept of family life from then on. The decision was made to
create a spiritual desert in our lives today, to infiltrate all aspects
of family life and society, so that the morality that bound us all
together would be undermined and that the young would be rendered
defenseless against the forces of evil. There are many reasons why this
happened.
     There is a belief that young people should be recruited in large
numbers so as to increase the powers of Satan, and some groups believe
that there is to be the Second Coming of the Anti-Christ in the next 20
years, so they want many disciples to be there to receive him. My belief
is that this is a load of rubbish. The whole object of the exercise is
to exploit the young sexually and emotionally, and through their deviant
and calculated methods, even to politically manipulate the minds of our
young.
     The results, which are already too apparent, are manifold: children
alienating themselves from loving and caring families; violent and
deranged behavior; MPD (which is multipersonality disorders); alcoholism
and psychiatric illnesses.
     The children are brainwashed, their minds and bodies are abused
beyond comprehension, and when the child discloses, the person who sits
and listens is traumatized as well. The depths to which these people
stoop in degradation, the inflicting of pain, and the enormity of the
fear they instill knows no bounds.
     We are in the middle of spiritual warfare and the satanic weapons
are all pointed at the young. There are school recruitment programs
where Satanists infiltrate the educational system and get children
involved in "history" lessons that talk about paganism and witchcraft.
The natural inquisitiveness of the young is very much capitalized on by
the Satanists, and there are many tactics used to draw the youngsters
into the satanic trap. Once in, it is very difficult for the child to
get out. They are kept in the group by threats of death against
themselves and their families, and Satan is presented to their
vulnerable minds as the all-powerful master, who will destroy if his
followers don't obey him. Pedophiles and perverts of any kind love this
environment of power and thrive in it, using the fear and the
intimidation to sexually exploit children.
     We as a society have to fight Satan. Satanists are people of the
Dark. They hate the Light. Knowledge and awareness represents light to
the Satanists. Let's shed as much light on these evil people and their
master as possible, and destroy them.


     DRAFT PROPOSAL FOR AN ACT PROHIBITING
     THE RITUALISTIC PRACTICES OF SATANISM

     The following proposed legislation is being entered into the
Pennsylvania state legislature. A nearly identical bill has been
submitted to the Washington state legislature and hearings are expected
to begin in July 1989.

     WHEREAS Article I, Section 3 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania states "All men have a natural and
indefeasible right to worship Almighty God according to the dictates of
their own consciences."
     WHEREAS be word "God" with a capital G is defined by Webster's
Dictionary as Creator and ruler of the universe; eternal, infinite
Spirit, the Supreme Being, almighty and omniscient, worshipped by men.
     WHEREAS Satan is defined by Webster's Dictionary as "the Chief evil
spirit, the great adversary of man, the Devil; the Evil One."
     WHEREAS Webster's Dictionary defines Satanism "as the worship of
Satan, especially in mockery of Christian ritual."
     WHEREAS the organized, ritualistic, social glorification of Satan
promotes an outlook dominated by the principle of evil, and the
proliferation of evil practices that flow as a consequence of that evil
outlook.
     WHEREAS evil is defined by Webster's Dictionary as "1. morally bad
or wrong, wicked, depraved, 2. causing pain or trouble, harmful;
injurious "
     WHEREAS the proliferation of evil practices constitutes a threat to
the inherent rights of mankind stipulated in Article 1, Section I of the
Pennsylvania Constitution.
     WHEREAS the Framers of the Pennsylvania Constitution who state in
the Preamble "We the people ... grateful to Almighty God for the
blessings of civil and religious liberty and humbly invoking His
guidance ..." did not intend to promote evil (satanic) practices in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
     WHEREAS satanic rituals "tend to corrupt" the individuals
participating in the rituals.
     WHEREAS it has been well-established by professional studies that
participation in the acts of mutilation, dismemberment, torture, and/or
ritualistic sacrifice of animals and or human surrogates induces a
homicidal outlook in the mind of the person who participates in such
acts.
     WHEREAS judicial precedents establish that religious freedom
involves two conceptions: "Freedom to believe, Freedom to act. The first
is absolute, but in the nature of things the second cannot be." U.S. v.
Sallard 322 U.S. 78.
     WHEREAS the U.S. Supreme Court states in Cantwell v. Connecticut
310 U.S. 296 that one may have any religious belief one desires but
one's conduct remains subject to regulations for the protection of
society.
     WHEREAS the U.S. Supreme Court in Reynolds v. U.S. 98 U.S. 445
states that Congress was deprived of all legislative power over mere
opinion, but was left free to reach actions which were in "violation of
social duties or subversive of good order."
     WHEREAS "Laws enacted for the purpose of restraining and punishing
acts which 1) have a tendency to disturb the public peace or 2) to
corrupt the public morals, are not repugnant to the constitutional
guarantees of religious liberty and freedom of conscience. ... Without
violating the constitutional guarantees, the state, under the police
power, may enact laws in order to promote the general welfare, public
health and public safety and order, public morals, and to prevent fraud"
16 Corpus Juris Secundum pp. 599 et seq.
     The General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania hereby
enacts as follows:
     This act shall be known and may be cited as the Satanic Rituals and
Practices Prohibition Act.
     It is the purpose of this act to protect the health and safety of
the people of Pennsylvania from the menace of the organized ritualistic
social glorification of Satan as subversive and destructive of the
foundation of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
     The following words and phrases when used in this act shall have,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the meanings given to
them in this section:
     Satan-The antithesis of Almighty God, also known as the Prince of
Darkness, the Devil, Beelzebub, the fallen angel, the Prince of Evil,
the chief evil spirit, the Evil One, and other names not listed herein.
     Satanic acts-Those acts which have peculiar characteristic of, or
intention to, express glorification of Satan.
     Satanism is the glorification of Satan, and those specific acts and
rituals relating to the glorification of Satan.
     Ritualistic is defined as meaning, of or pertaining to an act or
actions undertaken as part of a ceremony, rite, observance, or procedure
intended to glorify Satan.
     All group activities and practices which have as their main purpose
the glorification of Satan shall be prohibited. All individuals engaged
in the organized, ritualistic, social glorification of Satan shall be
deemed to be in violation of this act.
     Satanic Acts, practices, and rituals which constitute the
organized, ritualistic, social glorification of Satan include, but are
not strictly delimited to:
     a) The consumption of human blood;
     b) The ritualistic consumption of animal blood, and/or animal blood
intermixed with urine and/or feces;
     c) Ritualistic animal mutilations, dismemberments, and sacrifices;
     d) Ritualistic use and abuse of human fetuses;
     e) Ritualistic hanging, torturing, and/or crucifying animals on
crosses;
     f) Ritualistic hanging, torturing, and/or crucifying animals on
inverted crosses;
     g) Ritualistic sexual abuse of children, as well as ritualistic
symbolic sexual abuse of children;
     h) Ritualistic sexual abuse of men and women, as well as
ritualistic symbolic sexual abuse of men and women;
     i) Ritualistic psychological abuse of children;
     j) Ritualistic cannibalism.
     Any person who violates any provision of this act shall be fined up
to Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($15,000.00) and shall be subject to a jail
term of seven years. The crime will be considered a felony of the third
degree.
     Any person who violates any provision of this Act a second time
shall be fined up to Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.000) and
shall be subject to a jail term of ten years. The crime will be
considered a felony of the second degree.
     Any person who violates any provision of this act a third time
shall be fined no less than Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00)
and shall be subject to a jail term of twenty years. The crime will be
considered a felony of the first degree.
     The provisions of this act shall not affect any act done, liability
incurred or right accrued or vested, or affect any suit or prosecution
pending or to be instituted to enforce any right or penalty or punish
any offense under the authority of any act or part thereof repealed by
this act.
     If any provision of this act or the application thereof to any
person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions or applications of the act which can be given
effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the
provisions of this act are declared to be severable .



     WHAT YOU MUST DO

     Growing numbers of concerned citizens--particularly parents--are
finding with horror that Satanism is capturing the lives of increasing
numbers of our young people. The growing pattern of youth suicides
attests to this. Police estimate as many as 50,000 children are kidnaped
each year by pederasts and cultists, to be abused and many times
murdered during brutal sadistic, sexual-cult rituals.
     In this pamphlet, we have put together an overview, to help you to
understand the phenomenon. Satanism is not something which just happens,
just as in the case of the spread of drugs, its spread is patronized and
sponsored by a group of very evil people who intend to subvert our
nation, and to destroy Western Civilization. To do this they must
destroy the foundations of the Judeo-Christian tradition.
     Yet Satanism could not have taken hold as it has, had the structure
of our society not already been weakened by a consistent attack upon the
family. In the Judeo-Christian tradition, we recognize human life to be
sacred, because every human being has a soul; yet our children are
taught the reverse in their class rooms. They are taught that all values
are relative, that since the world is overpopulated, there is nothing
wrong with abortion and euthanasia. They are taught to condone
homosexuality and other forms of hedonism as alternate lifestyles.
     Outside the classroom, it is even worse. Even those children who
resist peer-group pressure, those who refuse to take drugs and reject
promiscuity, listen to rock music, much of which features pornography,
sadism, and Satanism. Not only are its contents barbaric, but the very
inundation of its highly amplified sound, is calculated to introduce a
trance-like state in listeners .
     This country is meant to be a nation under God, not under Satan. We
must not allow Satanists to practice their criminal rites under the
false cover of the Bill of Rights of our Constitution. The Constitution
guarantees freedom of religion and freedom of political discourse; it
does not protect the Devil. Satanism is a conspiracy of evil and it must
be destroyed.

     Kill Satan!



     BAND TOGETHER with your fellow citizens and ensure that Satanic
literature is not sold on magazine stands, and Satanic books do not
appear on the shelves of public or school libraries.
     MAKE SURE that no members of the Wicca Cult, the Lucis Trust, or
any other cult which practices Satanic rituals, are on the staff of your
local school.
     FORM PARENTS' GROUPS, to work on an ongoing basis with the
principals and teachers of grade schools and high schools, with
ministers and rabbis, with the local police, to make sure that everyone
is alerted to this danger, and determined to defeat it.
     AND TAKE AS A SAMPLE the legislation from Pennsylvania which we
include in this pamphlet, and mail it to your elected officials, from
the city government, to the state legislature and governor, to your
representatives in Washington. Tell them to take it as their model in
outlawing Satanism.
     SUBSCRIBE to New Federalist newspaper.
