                         Looking Deeper Into The Bible
                                      by
                               Matthew McGinnis
                                The Leprechaun

        The  Bible  states  in Genesis that the entire heaven and earth was
    created in six days. Man was created on  that  sixth  day  and  on  the
    seventh  day God rested. Scientists however have proven that the age of
    the dinosaurs began, reigned and ended millions of years before man was
    ever  put  on  the  earth.   The  only  way  one  could  explain   this
    contradiction  is  to  say  that  a  biblical  day was an equivalent to
    millions or even billions of common days.  Now, if we  can  agree  with
    this,  we  are  questioning  "Just how mighty and powerful IS God if it
    takes him millions and millions of years to create the universe when in
    various places throughtout the Bible it talks of God destroying  cities
    or doing other such things with ease.  Did he really take him this long
    to do this?
        After  God  flooded  the earth by making it rain for forty days and
    forty nights, he told Noah (Chap.9 verse 8) that he was sorry for  what
    he  had  done  and  that  he  would  never flood the earth again.  As a
    symbol to all mankind of this promise he created the rainbow.   Science
    has  found  why  a  rainbow  exists.  It  has  to  do  with  two simple
    properties one being of water  and  the  other  of  light.  The  first,
    refraction  or  the Prism Effect, the ability of water to split or bend
    light.  The second, the fact that white light is made  up  of  all  the
    colors  of  the rainbow. These two properties are what makes a rainbow.
    Science has also found that all living things require water in order to
    survive and that most all living things require sunlight. In order  for
    God  to have given the two previously mentioned properties to water and
    sunlight at the time of him making the promise to Noah would mean  that
    he  also would have had to change the genetic structure of every living
    thing on earth so that they could survive under the new  properties  of
    water and light for which they had survived on for so long.  If one can
    agree  that this is what really happened, then we are forced to rethink
    about the previous paragraph in which it sugests  that  it  might  have
    taken  God  millions  of  years  to create the universe. Wouldn't it be
    logical to say that it would take a fair amount of time for him  to  do
    the  alterations  to  everything on earth?  If so, wouldn't some things
    die before he could have gotten around to correcting them?  Seems  like
    a lot of trouble to go through just to create a rainbow.
        Before  God cast Satan out of heaven, He was God's high angel.  The
    Bible describes heaven as containing no evil and of being  made  up  of
    pure  good.  If  this  was  so how could Satan have been evil to try to
    overthrow God.  There was no evil in heaven foπ Satan to BE evil. Also,
    if he had been such a wise angel, don't you think he  would  have  been
    wise  enough  to know that he couldn't overthrow God, the most powerful
    force in existence?
        God told Noah (Genesis Chap. 6 verse  15)  to  build  an  ark  five
    hundred  cubits  by  fifty  cubits by thirty cubits.  A cubit being the
    length from the tip of the middle finger to the base of the  elbow,  an
    average  of  twenty  inches.   This  figures  out to be an ark with the
    dimensions eight hundred thirty three feet  by  eighty  three  feet  by
    fifty  feet  Giving  the ark three stories.  That is slightly wider and
    almost three times as long as a football field.  Yet  one  six  hundred
    year  old  man built the entire thing in the short amount of time given
    to him by God?  Ok, maybe he did.  To continue, Noah was  commanded  to
    bring forth into the ark two of every animal on the earth.  Granted the
    ark  was  big  but for it to be big enough to hold two of every kind of
    animal on earth is far from being  to  believe  considering  there  are
    hundreds  of  thousands  of different animals on earth.  Even if two of
    everything DID fit on the ark, Noah and the animals remained on the ark
    for barely under a year.  A closer figure would be three hundred  fifty
    five  days.   Now,  take  for example an elephant.  An elephant eats an
    average of five hundred pounds of food a day.  Not even considering how
    many types of elephants there are, thats one thousand pounds of food  a
    day  to  feed  just two of them.  This figures out to a food supply for
    two elephants alone to be three hundred fifty five thousand  pounds  of
    food.   If  this was to be figured out for each and every animal on the
    ark, one would need hundreds of times  more  room  for  food  than  for
    animals.   There  is  no possible way to fit all the animals plus their
    food on an ark of this size.  What about animals like  the  lion  which
    are  meat  eaters.  Noah would have had to have found a way to keep his
    entire food supply fresh for  a  year.   If  he  kept  his  food  alive
    untilneeded  by  the lion, how much food would have been needed to feed
    the lion's food? After the rains ceased (Genisis Chap.8 verse 6),  Noah
    sent  out  a raven and a dove every seven days to see if the waters had
    fallen.  The waters were of a depth of fifteen cubits  or  twenty  five
    feet  above  the highest point on earth at the end of the flood yet the
    dove returned with an olive leaf that had been plucked off of an  olive
    tree  (Genisis  Chap.8 verse 11). It is impossible for an olive tree to
    live under water for the amount of time it would have taken the  waters
    to rise and fall twenty five feet so how could the dove have found this
    leaf?
        The  Bible  states  that  God  will  go to 'The four corners of the
    earth' and gather together all of the  beleivers.   Up  until  columbus
    discovered  that  the world was round, everyone believed it to be flat,
    thus the four corners of a flat earth. If God really created the earth,
    don't you think he would of known it was round and therefore would  not
    have spoken of it as being flat with corners?
        In  the  first four books of the New Testament: Matthew, Mark, Luke
    and John, Each one told of the crucifixion of Jesus.  Matthew (Chap.27)
    says that Jesus was offered a drink of vinegar and gall  and  he  would
    not accept it.  Mark îChap.15) says that he was offered a drink of wine
    and myrrh and that he would not accept it.  Luke (Chap.23) says that he
    was  offered  a  drink  of vinegar and does not state whether or not he
    accepted it.  John (Chap.19) says that Jesus asked for a drink  and  he
    was given vinegar and hyssops.  Who is correct?  Is any of them?
        What  I  am  trying  to accomplish by writing this report is not to
    make people stop believing in Christianity  or  the  teachings  of  the
    Bible  unless  that  is  what they choose is best for them.  I strongly
    believe  that  the  Bible  has  many  truths  and  teachings  that  are
    beneficial  to mankind. The point I am trying to make is that MAN wrote
    the Bible and GOD did NOT sign  his  name  to  it.   So  don't  believe
    everything one might read in the Bible because, just like folk stories,
    it  changes  each  time  the stories of it are told and are passed down
    from generation to generation until finally, somebody wrote the stories
    down in hopes of them not to be changed anymore.  By this time they had
    allready ended up with a garbled up messêthat looked nothing  like  the
    original.   Keep  in  mind  that  many  things  were  also  lostin  the
    translation of the Bible from Greek to english.  One last thing to keep
    in mind, Think about how many different religions  there  are  and  how
    many  different  Bibles  these  religions  have.   These Bibles all are
    different and some  completly  contradict  others.   For  example,  the
    Satanic and the Christian.  Can they ALL be correct?  If not, which one
    is? Maybe a part of all of them are correct.

                  A New Age Interpretation of Heaven and Hell

        Most  religions  teach  that  according  to  how one lives his life
    determines whether or not one goes to  heaven  or  hell.   This  simple
    truth  can  be  accepted  by  both  Christians  and by those who do not
    believe in the Christian God or those who believe in reincarnation.  To
    a Christian, everyone has one life and only one  life  to  do  good  in
    order to go to a place where there is no anger, hate, jealousy or evil,
    called  Heaven.   If one live an evil life that person's soul goes to a
    place where it is tormented and burned for all eternity in order to pay
    for its sins.  The Non-Christian belief might be much the  same  except
    for a few things.  Hell is not eternal unless one chooses for it to be.
    Everyone has what is called karma.  Webster defines karma as actions in
    one  lifetime  that  determines  the  fate  of  the next lifetime.  For
    example if in one life, a person was prejudice against a given race and
    tormented that race, in that person's next life he would incarnate as a
    person of that given race to live a life of torment from those who  are
    prejudice against him just as he once was.  Or in short, karma could be
    defines as 'whatever goes around comes around'.  A soul's karma must be
    resolved  before that soul can be free from the wheel of reincarnation.
    In order to accomplish this, that soul must  incarnate  over  and  over
    again  until  all its karma is resolved, thus this is where the saying,
    'Life is hell' may have come from.  If a person chooses to  live  their
    lives  in  evil, that person does nothing but add to their karma and it
    therefore takes longer to resolve it, perhaps all eternity.  So,  maybe
    life  really  is  hell.  When  a  person's  karma is all resolved, that
    person's soul is released from the wheel and  thus  released  from  the
    physical  plane  so  that  that soul may now evolve more quickly on its
    path to merge with the All That Is or God.
        Perhaps this simple truth as stated above was taught  by  Jesus  or
    other  many other Messias but over the centuries, it was altered to the
    way the Christians now believe it to be.  One possible reason for  this
    alteration  might  have been The Church itself. The Church rationalized
    that they must not teach their disciples the truth, knowing  that  evil
    does  exist,  in order to keep this evil to a minimum.  If they were to
    teach the truth and those who chose to follow evil learned this  truth,
    they  might use it to their advantage.  They no longer would have to be
    afraid of dying and going to the firey hell but in turn all they  would
    have to do is reincarnte and continue their rein of evil.  These people
    would not worry about what would happen if one of their evil plans were
    to  fail  and  there  were executed for their deeds.  As a whole, chaos
    would break out so the alteration in the simple truth was necessary.
        It is logical to conclude that if this was  done,  The  Church  may
    have  found reasons to alter other truths that were at one time taught.
    Can one really be sure?  Perhaps the most log⁄cal thing  to  do  is  to
    study  and be open to the many different religions and beliefs and then
    decide for oneself which path to follow.

                                  Disclaimer

        I don't want people to think that I am attacking  the  religion  of
    Christianity.  The reason I am talking about this religion is because I
    was raised a Christian and therefore, I know a little about it.  I have
    tried  to  make the facts in this report as accurate as possible but if
    for some reason there is an incorrect statement here I would very  much
    like to know about it so it can be corrected. The interpretations given
    are  of myself, the author, and are in no way ment to be interpreted by
    the readers as the beleifs of others but only as the  opinions  of  one
    person as I feel they need to be stated.
        I  know I probably am going to get a lot of slack from those of you
    on the net for me writting this.  So let me say right here and now that
    I do not claim to be an athority on this subject and  I  may  not  have
    stated  one  thing here that any of you may agree with.  I admit, I may
    have the facts wrong and if I do, I apologize.  I would still  like  to
    hear your comments on this article though.

                               Thank you for your time and
                               Blessings to all,
                                      The Leprechaun
                                      Matthew McGinnis
