Martin Luther, founder of the Protestant Sect of Christianity was a staunch
and rabid anti-semite.

In _On the Jews and Their Lies_ (1543), Martin Luther accepted at face value
medieval prejudices aginst the Jews: that they engaged in sorcery and magic, 
poisoned the wells of Christians, desecrated the Eucharistic host, and 
ritually murdered Christian children. In the concluding section, excerpted 
here, Luther advises civil and clerical authorities to treat the Jews harshly. 
Luther's anti-Jewish outbrusts influenced Northern European
anti-Semitic/anti-jewish prejuidices in later times (Nazi Germany et al).

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 Martin Luther
                           On the Jews and Their Lies
                                      1543

First to set fire to their synagoges or schools and to bury and cover with 
dirt whatever will not burn, so that no man will ever again see a stone or 
cinder of them. This is to be done in honor of our Lord and of Christiandom, 
so that God might see that we are Christians, and do not condone or knowingly 
blashpheming  of his Son and of his Christians...

Second, I advise that their houses also be razed and destroyed. For they 
pursue in them the same aims as in thier synagogues.  Instead they might be 
lodged under a roof in a barn, like the  gypsies. This will bring home to them 
the fact that they are not masters in our country, as they boast, but that 
they are living in exile and in captivity, as they incessantly wail and lament 
about us before God.

Third, I advise that all their pryayer books and Talmudic writings, in which 
such idolatry, lies, cursings, and blasphemy are taught, be taken from them.

Fourth , I advise that their rabbis be forbidden to teach henceforth on of 
life and limb....

Sixth, Iadvise that usuary be prohibited to them, and that all cash and
treasure of silver and gold be taken from them and put aside for safekeeping 
<uh-huh>. The reason for such a measure is that, as said above, they have no 
other means of earning a livelihood than usary, and by it they have stolen and 
robbed from us all they possess...

<Here, we see how Martin Luther propagated the 'money grubbing jew' sterotype>

Seventh, I recommend putting a flail, an ax, ahow, a spade, a distaff, or a 
spindle into the hands of young strong Jews and Jewesses and letting them earn 
their bread in the sweat of their brow, as was imposed on the children of 
Adam. <Slavery>. For it is not fitting that they should let us accursed Goyim 
toil in the sweat of our faces while they the holy people, idle away their 
time behind the stove, feasting and farting, and on top of all, boasting 
blasphemously of their lordship over the Christians by means of our sweat. No, 
one should toss out these lazy rogues by the seat of their pants.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

So here we see, how the founder of the Protestant Religion, which encompasses 
all of Christianity, excluding the Catholic, Greek, and Russian Orthodox 
Churchs, was a violent a deranged anti-semitic. Luther teachings re-enforced 
anti-semitism throughout northern europe setting the stage for the Nazi and 
the Concentrations camps.

The Catholic church is no better, from its creation till 1960 (over 1100 
years) it taught as holy doctrine that jews where 'wicked'. The Greek and 
Russian Orthodox Churchs also have a long histroy of anti-jewish action. The 
infamous 'Protocols of the Elders of Zions' was written and distribued by the 
Russian Orthodox Church.

It shoud be noted that President Bush, and VP Quayle are both Protestants.  
Bush have 4 prominate neo-nazis on his campaign staff, and both Bush and  
Quayle belong to country clubs that exclude jews (and blacks, hispanics, and 
women). Bush has also support southern racists like Jesse Helms, and has 
engaded in propaganda to hinder civil rights bills, and to increaser acial 
tensions in our major cities.

Elric of Imrryr

