Copyright (c) 1988 by Phil Hansford. This article is
is licenced for free non-commercial distribution only.

----------------------------------------------------------

** MAGICK 3 -- THE FOUR WORLDS **

        The ancients described man as mind, body, and soul.
Psychologists of the twentieth century added the
subconscious to that deffinition. This produces a four-fold
classification. The universe is also divided into four
corresponding parts ('worlds'), as shown below:

WORLD                   BODY                    QUALITY
=====                   ====                    =======

spiritual world    spiritual body (soul or kia) intuition
mental world       mental body (conscious mind) rational
                                                 thought
astral world       astral body (subconscious)   emotions
physical world     physical body            physical senses

        The astral body (subconscious) is the intermediary
for intuition, magical and psychic phenomena, and is the
'psychic link' to the physical world. J.H. Brennan says
that the astral is the realm of visual imagination. It
seems to be both a 'place' and a 'state of mind' at the
same time. Most occult and magical phenomena originate in
the invisible, non-sensate, non-physical realm (ie. without
physical senses). Each of the four worlds interacts with
the other worlds. Psychic energy flows from the spiritual
to mental to astral to physical. The physical world is a
projection (manifestation, reflection, or shadow) of the
higher worlds. Our center of consciousness is generally
within these higher worlds. "We are", to quote the rock
music group the Police, "spirits in the material world".
        There are many similar terms used by other occult
groups. For example, 'astral light' is another name for
astral world, although it may sometimes also refer to the
entire non-physical realm, as may 'inner planes' or 'the
invisible world'. Planes are essentially the same as worlds.
Vehicles or sheaths are the same as bodies. Some groups
include an etheric or vital body between physical and
astral: it is mostly 'physical' with a little of the
lower 'astral' besides. And sometimes astral and mental
are each divided into two parts (upper and lower). The
'causal body' is the upper 'mental'.

MICROCOSM AND MACROCOSM

        We have been describing 'traditonal' occult
philosophy here, and certainly an important part of the
tradition is the idea (and terms) microcosm and macrocosm.
The greater universe, known as the *macrocosm*, includes
everything that exists. It corresponds with the *microcosm*,
or tiny universe, ie. man -- who is thought of as a
miniature replica of the macrocosm (whole universe).
This basic magical relationship is demonstrated in the
Bible (Genesis 1.27), where God is the macrocosm; and in
the writing of Trismegistus ("As above so below"). Since
man is in the image of God (universe) it follows that God
is in the image of man (in other words, man and the
God/universe match each other). The magician, as a microcosm
is thus connected with the macrocosm. There is an intimate
relationship of energies between you and everything else.
The universe is reflected within us and we are projected
into the universe. This is an important theory behind magick
and astrology.

MAGICK WHITE AND BLACK

        'Personal magick' is that magick used to affect the
self; often involving affirmation, self-suggestion, and
self-hypnosis. 'Active magick' is outer directed magick (as
in PK) used to affect someone or thing, or to bring about
an event. 'Passive magick' is to be affected (as in ESP)
by an outside non-physical cause. Everyone possesses some
magical (and psychic) potential. Some are especially
gifted. Usually people are better at one kind of magick
(ie. active or passive) than they are at the other kind;
only rarely does an individual excell at both. Traning
and practice will, of course, improve ability somewhat.
        Although the forces of magick are neutral, various
systems may take on the qualities of good and evil. There
is so-called white magick or good magick, black magick or
evil magick, and gray magick between them. When many people
refer to white magick they mean magick for unselfish
purposes, also healing and mental influence with specific
permission. By black magick they refer to magick for
self-interest and healing *without* specific permission.
Using magick to forcefully control another's will is, in a
sense, black magick too. There are also some people on the
occult fringe who claim to be, possibly even think they are,
'Satanists', devil worshipers, or black magicians. These
people are most likely charlatans, hoaxters, dablers, or
merely misinformed. They may be attracted by the 'art' of
black magick, or even by the 'glamor' of doing something
against the 'rules'. But a real black magician is very
dangerous. Because he has dedicated his life to evil. We
usually think of 'white magick' as having *unselfish
intent*, and (in the extreme case) of 'black magick' as
being actual Satan worship, human or animal sacrifice,
dangerous unconventional magical practices, and other
bizarre stuff as makes a nightmare. It is all a matter of
degree. Most mild self-interest magick (one of the most
common kinds) would be called 'gray'. Better terms may be
*constructive magick* as being beneficial; and *aversive
magick* as magick intended to work against the natural
order, and to tear down. There is also the *high magick* of
spiritual alchemy (ie. spiritual growth), also known as 'the
Great Work'; and conversely there is 'low magick' which is
concerned with materiality. 
        Any magick act is likely to produce side effects
regardless of whether or not the desired result is achieved.
Such side effects are no problem for constructive magick,
since they are benificial as well. However, aversive magick
can produce aversive side effects which may even harm the
magician -- aversive magick is dangerous!

MAGICK IS A CONTINUOUS PROCESS

        What we have been calling 'magick' is actually a
continuous process. Since your subconscious never rests,
your environment is continually being shifted into line with
your model. This is true whether you study magick or not.
For most people, these effects are usually very subtle, and
they are probably not aware of them. However, as you work
with the occult, the flow of psychic energy and your
awareness of it increases. Your true will is more likely
to be strongly expressed. Your luck may be affected (either
in a positive or a negative way). Remember, our lives tend
to follow what we want down deep. That is why a positive
outlook is so very beneficial to us.

THE MAGICAL DIARY

        Sometimes it is helpful to keep a diary of your
magical experiments and research. Such a diary should include
the date, perhaps even some astrological data (or anything
else you think may have a relationship to what you are doing).
This is also a good time to begin recording your dreams --
at least the important ones -- in a dream diary. Your dreams
can tell you a great deal about yourself, and may sometimes
reveal premonitions. Dreams are personal. Don't fall for the
commercial 'dream book' gimmick.

AFFIRMATIONS

        The mind is always open to suggestion -- especially the
subconscious. Most of the time we censor any suggestions
according to the model; but one way to break through the censor
is with repetition. An affirmation does this exactly. By
suggestion, we mean any statement which is capable of affecting
your model. Usually suggestion is in the form of a positive
statement (such as the hypnotist's patter -- " You are
becomming sleepy"). An affirmation is the same kind of thing --
a positive suggestion, which you repeat (affirm) to yourself
aloud or silently (for example, "I remember my dreams"). If
there is some quality you wish to change or develope within
yourself, an affirmation is ideal. Repeat it several times
every day at several different times throughout the day,
expecially when you go to bed. Affirmations are subtle and may
require a few months to work. Use them for changes, not
miracles.

SIMPLE BANISHING TECHNIQUE

        Visualization is another important method we use to
influence the subconscious. A good example of this is the
simple banishing technique which follows. Banishing is used in
magick to 'clear the air' of negative 'vibes' and
interference... 

        Visualize a strong white light flowing out the top of
your head, flowing down around you and covering you. At the
same time imagine you are throwing away any 'problem' vibes.
Maintain the visualization for a half a minute or longer.
Good way to help you handle your emotions, and to control
worry or anger.

REVIEW QUESTIONS

1) What is a microcosm?
2) List the four worlds. Explain.
3) What is an affirmation? Give an example.

BOOK LIST

Geoffry Hodson, Theosophy Answers Some Problems of Life.
Marc Edmund Jones, Key Truths of Occult Philosophy.
Marion Weinstein, Positive Magic.
Nelson & Ann White, The Wizard's Apprentice.
Beatrice Bruteau, The Psychic Grid.

========
Phil Hansford, 4/88
Mysteria
(818) 353-8891 (modem)
P.O. Box 83
Tujunga, CA 91042
