** MAGICK 1 -- WHY MAGICK **

        The ability to think seems to set us apart from
other creatures. And although we are concerned with
living in the physical world, we are mental beings. The
fact is we are thinking all the time. We plan, we brood,
we get depressed or elated -- all of it is thought. But
the universe is mental too, and if we could control our
thinking we would see magnificent results in the everyday
world.
        Many systems have been developed over the ages to
help us control our thoughts. A great amound of dogma too
has been kicked around in an attempt to make us into better
people. Magick (the occult kind, spelled with a 'k') is one
of the oldest and most general of these systems. Magick is
the study and application of psychic forces. It uses mental
training, concentration, and a system of symbols to program
the mind. The purpose of magick is to alter the self and the
environment according to the will.
        Most of the magick we see today comes to us from
ancient Egypt and Chaldea. The Chinese, Hindus, and Tibetans
developed their own unique types of magick. Western magick
was locked up by the Egyptian priests for thousands of years
and then supressed by the rise of Christianity. It was not
until medieval Europe that magical knowledge was rediscovered
by the alchemists and Cabalists. Only during the past hundred
years or so has western culture been open minded enough to
permit widespread investigation of the subject. Only since
the start of the twentieth century has science shown much
interest in it al all.

PARAPSYCHOLOGY AND PSYCHIC PHENOMENA

        Through parapsychology, we are at last beginning to
gain insights into the hidden nature of man. Parapsychology
is a branch of psychology which studies psychic phenomena.
Remarkable evidence has been gathered on numerous cases of
psychic phenomena. Knowledge gained from parapsychology
studies can be applied, so far as it goes, to the much
broader based, much more theoretical study and practice of
magick. 
        Thus, the human mind and body appears to broadcast
psychic energy or force, much like a radio station. Kirlian
photography and cloud chamber tests tend to support this
theory. Although the exact nature of this psychic force is
subtle and unknown, it is undoubtedly the energy behind all
psychic phenomena and magick. However, it is *not* a radio
wave, since it behaves somewhat differently. The psychic
force is too weak to be measured directly (at least so far as
we know). Everyone has some psychic ability. There are
numerous types of psychic phenomena. Parapsychology separates
them into two groups: ESP and PK... 

EXAMPLES OF ESP

        ESP, the abreviation for extra sensory perception,
means the reception of information through paranormal means
(ie. not regular physical senses of sight, sound, touch,
smell, or taste). In theory, this is accomplished by
receiving psychic force from outside the body. Here are some
examples of ESP: 
        1) Clairvoyance, or Remote Viewing -- the ability to
sense or 'see' (non-physically) distant objects, places, and
people. Individuals who see ghosts and spirits are probably
clairvoyant. 
        2) Astral Projection (OOBE) or Traveling Clairvoyance
-- Full experience at a remote location while the physical
body sleeps. 
        3) Psychometry -- the reading of information by the
touch of physical objects.
        4) Telepathic receiver -- the ability to directly
receive thought (communication) at a distance, with no
physical connection to the sender. There are many everyday
examples of this, in which we think something just as another
person is about to say it. This is an easy one to test for
through experiment. Very dramatic cases of telepathy have
been recorded; there is often an emotional element in such
cases. 
        5) A medium, as in a seance.
        6) Experience with a Ouija board, pendulum, or
automatic writing.
        7) Precognition -- to forsee the future. Again,
highly emotional events are the ones most likely to be 'tuned
in'. 

EXAMPLES OF PK

        PK, the abreviation for psychokinesis, is the active
or sending side of psychic phenomena. The theory here is that
psychic force is sent out from the individual. Examples of PK
include: 
        1) Telepathic sender -- the transmitter in the
telepathy just discussed.
        2) Psychokinesis (or telekinesis) proper -- the
ability to move objects by means of psychic force.
        3) Somewhat along the same lines are poltergeist
(noisy ghost) phenomena in which objects move of their own
accord or noises are heard. There is always a human agent
involved -- frequently a teenage girl -- who appears to be
the source of psychic energy. 
        4) Psychic healing -- the ability to heal various
illnesses and infirmities. There are many documented cases of
this. Usually it involves a healer and a subject, although
there are recent cases invloving cancer patients learning to
heal themselves. 
        5) Teleportation, apportation, and levitation.
        Some occultists feel a magician producing PK effects
is simply a channel for universal energy. Others think the
force originates some way directly within the magician.

THE SUBCONSCIOUS 

        Postulated by Freud and others, the concept of the
subconscious mind is an important one. Basicly, this is the
idea that part of the mind normally operates below or outside
of ordinary consciousness and awareness. Dreams and hypnosis
are examples of this. Also subconscious are the many
automatic functions of the physical body such as respiration
and digestion.

WHY DO MAGICK?

        Magick encompasses many things -- science and art,
philosophy and metaphysics, psychology and comparative
religion. Magick is an adventure at the borderlands of the
unknown. It can fit the pieces of the puzzel of life into a
meaningful whole.
        Magick is fun and interesting. Use magick to help
raise consciousness without drugs. Gain new experiences.
Fantacy can come alive through magick. Psychic phenomena can
be controlled and be fun and helpful.
        Magick is beneficial. It can help you to have
excellent health, and bring you good luck. With magick life
runs smoothly; life is good. Also use magick for personality
improvement, to control bad habits and to develop new
motivations.
        Magick is powerful. Never underestimate the
tremendous power of magick. Use magick to alter events and to
achieve your goals. Exert an influence over people and
phenomena. But power for its own sake is self defeating. The
power which magick can give you should not be your primary
reason for studying it.

MAGICK AND WITCHCRAFT

        A number of other occult disciplines are prevalent
today besides magick. There are many cults and sects which
profess their own views, but there are really few differences
between them. One popular area in the occult today is
witchcraft. This is far removed from the cliche of devil
worship. Real witchcraft is a nature religion (pagan).
Witchcraft has much in common with magick.
        Alchemy also has much in common with magick. It's
heritage comes from the middle ages. Alchemy fathered
chemistry and the physical sciences. But the avowed purpose
of alchemy, turning lead into gold, is too limiting to be
called magick. Sometimes the goal of alchemy is interpreted
in another way, as the transformation of man into a spiritual
being. 
        Then there are the numerous modern day seers or
'pychics', as they like to be called, who operate within
their own somewhat unique systems. Although many of these
people are deluded frauds, some are very powerful occultists
indeed. 
        Of course, everything I have said here is a
generalization. Magick, witchcraft, alchemy, or any occult
field are complex subjects. Suffice it to say that magick
includes them all (it is eclectic). For magick is undoubtedly
a philosophy which has, as the late Aleister Crowley wrote,
"The method of science -- the aim of religion."

REVIEW QUESTIONS

1) Define magick.
2) Define ESP and PK. Give examples.
3) What is the subconsicous?

BOOK LIST

Hal N. Banks, An Introduction to Psychic Studies.
Annie Besant, Thought Power.
Michael H. Brown, PK, A Report on the Power of Psychokinesis.
Richard Cavendish, The Black Arts.
Alexandira David-Neel, Magic and Mystery in Tibet.
Raynor C. Johnson, The Imprisoned Splendour.
Ostrander and Shroeder, Psychic Discoveries Behind the
    Iron Curtan.


Downloaded From P-80 Systems 304-744-2253                                                                                              
