                                STUDY WITH US

    The Rosicrucian Fellowship is an association of Christian men and women 
banded together for the purpose of helping to make Christianity a living 
factor in the world. Its teachings give a definite, logical, and sequential 
explanation of the origin, evolution, and future development of the world 
and man, from both the spiritual and scientific aspects. The Fellowship has 
no connection with any other organization. 

    Upon completion of the Preliminary Philosophy Course, one may become a 
Regular Student and receive a monthly Student Letter and Lesson. After two 
years of Regular Studentship, during which time the aspirant has striven to 
practice self-control and "loving, self-forgetting service to others," the 
next step may be applied for: Probationership. 

           The following courses are available by correspondence: 

WESTERN WISDOM PHILOSOPHY: explains many of the Occult facts associated with 
Esoteric Christianity while affirming the reality of Christ and His work. 
The Preliminary Course of 12 lessons provides a basic understanding of the 
planes of Nature that are invisible to the ordinary sight, as outlined in 
The Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception, the course textbook, while the 
Supplementary Course of 40 lessons allows the student to proceed to more 
advanced studies and begin to mold his or her life into an expression of 
confident, radiant power! 

WESTERN WISDOM BIBLE COURSE: a correspondence course of 28 lessons compiled 
from the profound writings of Max Heindel, makes clear the "inner meanings" 
of the Scriptures and reveals the underlying principles upon which both 
science and religion are based. Will help the student to recognize the Bible 
as a spiritual Guide of inestimable value and to interpret and understand 
the "secrets" of life it contains. 

SPIRITUAL ASTROLOGY COURSES: sets forth the Cosmic aspects of the science of 
the stars in the light of occult philosophy and its application to daily 
life in accordance with spiritual Law. The Junior Course (26 lessons) covers 
the setting up of the Chart and then advances to chart interpretation. The 
Senior Course (12 lessons) covers the esoteric phases of horoscope 
delineation. The Senior Extension Course (13 lessons) covers in-depth 
horoscope reading, including progressions and transits. 
