
                           SECULAR HUMANISM

     There are only two general views of the world.  Although there
are many ideas on life's worth and purpose, they all boil down to two
basic views.  One of these is God's view - the other is man's view.
     These two views produce two different people.  The humanist, or
worldly person is basically ego, or self-oriented.  The Christian
person, or follower of God is "other person" oriented.
     Secular Humanism says that there is no God.  Christianity says
there is a living creator, God.  Each of these two views, philosophies
or belief patterns comprises its own world view.  All systems of
belief fit into one of these two diametrically opposed philosophies.
     Conflicts in these two opposing views have dominated the world
scene since the Garden of Eden.  In America's public schools this
conflict is reaching explosive proportions.
     Charles Francis Potter, a Humanist interviewed by the Boston
Herald Courier says, "Education is thus a most powerful ally of
Humanism, and every American public school is a school of Humanism."
     In the publication "Social Sciences" Humanist Paul Brandwein
writes, "Any child who believes in God is mentally ill."  New "mental
health" programs are being adopted nationally to "assist" those who
believe in God to a more healthy mental outlook.
     These views are ideological, religious, socialist political
views, robbing America of God's influence.  They conflict with
Christianity.
     To the Humanist, morality depends on what seems right (to him) at
the time, or whether it feels good, and not on any Biblical or
Theological standards.  He strives for the good life here and now, and
is dependent only upon his own reasoning and intelligence.
     Secular Humanism does much greater damage to the individual than
it does to society.  It does this by attacking the persons potential,
his peace of heart and mind, and even his hope for life.
     Just as no nation can survive without law and order, no man can
achieve any measure of happiness in life without some standard of
morality and a knowledge of right and wrong - faith in his creator.
     The Humanist Manifesto 1 (1933) and 2 (1973) are called, by
Humanists, their bible.  The manifestos are endorsed by the American
Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and the National Education Association
(NEA).  The term "humanism" has been used with the terms "humanness"
and "humanitarian" which most people equate with something very human
and good for mankind.
     An examination of the political and religious goals of humanism
reveals it to be an anti-God, anti-Christian philosophy.
     Although the Humanist Manifesto uses beautiful language and
encourages idealistic hopes, (false as they may be) it is the
doctrinal statement for the most deadly philosophy ever proposed. 
Karl Marx said, "Humanism denies the existence of God and affirms the
all-sufficiency of man.  It is nothing more than Communism."
     Humanist Manifesto 2 expands on Manifesto 1 and elevates
Socialism as the one-world religion of all nations.  It expands upon
the use of the word religion and is, on the one hand, for religious
values (which are not defined) and, on the other hand, against all
faith in God from traditional religions.  Ethics are derived only by
changing human experience.
     Many paradoxes appear in Humanist Manifesto 2.  Separation of
church and state is the most powerful political position.  The world
community is now expounded as mankind's only hope.  Technology and
science are both man's hope, and greatest fear.  Socialism is
acclaimed as the answer.
     The Christian has a tremendous advantage over the worldly Secular
Humanist.  The Christian knows who he is, where he came from, and
where he is going.  The Christian has a proven plan and agenda to live
by in reaching his goals of fulfillment in this life, and God's plan
for his life to come.
     Even secular psychologists say studies have proven that the
happiest people are those whose focus is on others, and outside of
themselves.
     To the Christian, the Bible is absolute truth and knowledge.  To
the Secular Humanist, everything is relative and changing, without any
ultimate truth or knowledge.
     The Bible deals with objectivity, with actual and factual
phenomena as reality.  Secular Humanism deals with subjectivity of a
persons mind or emotions - that which is fanciful or illusory, or
relative to the moment in time, or a changing situation.  The
objective approach of Christianity relies upon the facts of history,
of human experience, and the perfect knowledge given to man from God
in the Bible.
     The objective approach to life is constant, and gives mankind a
benchmark or starting point to measure reality.
     The Bible is God's word.  Christ is the Living Word.  Christians
live by the Word.  They experience through God's spirit witnessing to
their spirit.  Their knowledge does not vary with every person or
condition.  It is proven, scientific, spiritual knowledge verified by
observable facts, prophecies, and history.  It is all substantiated by
their own experience of Faith.
     Much of Humanism is rhetoric.  Many people may find themselves
agreeing with it, (it sounds so benevolent) but in reality it is a
man-based instead of a God-based religion.

 Originally written by Dr. John Fussell
 Edited and revised by D. Moore, Computers for Christ #11

