Out Of Body Experience
----------------------

     We  are  limited  on the physical  world,  we  are  somewhat 
trapped  inside our bodies.  There is still a part of us that can 
go beyond these limits and thus travel outside the body.
     There are three types of traveling out of the body.  An  out 
of  body  experience or astral travel is when the "spirit"  exits 
the body,  still connected to the body,  and then returns to  the 
body  after a short while.  The spirit is still connected to  the 
body by what some say is a "silver cord" attached to the body and 
to  the spirit.  This would explain why the body doesn't die when 
the spirit travels outside.
     Many people have reported going out of their body when  they 
have  died.  Obviously,  they returned to the body that was still 
able to live and report their experience.  These are called NDE's 
or Near Death Experiences.  Many people, after having an NDE have 
changed their ways of life.  They live a more peaceful and a much 
more fulfilling life understanding to some degree what is waiting 
for them after death.
     Another  kind of experience can be explained,  by  some,  as 
reincarnation.  The body dies, the spirit exits and comes back in 
another body.

     Anyone can have an out of body experience, many people have, 
but just haven't cared to try and understand it. Here is a simple 
guide to astral travel.

-----

     Find a comfortable room,  dimly lit or even dark. It is best 
you  are not disturbed during this.  Lie down and  relax,  loosen 
clothes  or take them off,  and remove anything that is  limiting 
your need to relax.
     Close your eyes and relax your body and mind.  Breathe easy, 
slowly, and deeply in rhythm, mouth slightly open. 
     Focus  on a single image as you begin to fall  asleep.  When 
you reach the state bordering sleep and wakefulness, deepen  your 
relaxation by concentrating on the blackness beyond your eyelids.
     Focus on a point about twelve inches away from your forehead 
and  slowly extend that point to a distance of about five to  six 
feet. Draw an imaginary line parallel to your body. Focus on that 
plane, imagine vibrations and bring them down into your forehead.
     Control  the  vibrations by guiding them through your  body, 
from your head to your toes and back again.  When you can produce 
these vibrations on mental command, you are ready to travel.
     To leave the body,  concentrate on how pleasant it would  be 
to  float upward.  Concentrate on these relaxed thoughts and your 
astral body should begin to rise.
     To  return to the body simply concentrate on  rejoining  the 
body and the spirit.

-----
Astral Pathways - Guidance to spiritual growth
- Damon Pike
 concentrate on  rejoining  