THE INVERSE PENTAGRAM & THE MEANING OF SATANISM

While it is obviously true that some teenagers, heavy metal rock fans, and
some immature adults use the inverse pentagram as nothing more than a
shock-device, such people should not be confused with sincere adherants of
Satanism.

_Satanic Humanism_

        The inverse pentagram is used by Satanists as a symbol of their
humanist philosophy and creative individualism. This humanism, it must be
emphasised, is antithetical to that of the liberal variety, which shares
with Christianity and other slave creeds the demand for an enforced
egalitarianism and universal herd-conformity.

        Satanic humanism, to the contrary. recognizes the primacy of the
outstanding, creative individual above the mass (a hierarchy of human
worth, in Nietzschean terms), for it is always the outstanding individual,
not the inert mass, who has been responsible for human ascent and the march
of history. The slaves creeds of the mass have displaced the individual in
favor of the herd, thereby activating dysgenic and culturally retrogressive
trends.

        Satanism is unshamedly elitist. this alone is enough to make it
heretical in the eyes of Christian, Moslem, dialectical materialist and
liberal humanist.

        Satanic humanism has been best articulated by Fredrich Nietzshe,
refer especially to _Thus Spoken Zarathustra_, _The Anti-Christ_, _Twilight
of the Idols_, and _beyond Good & Evil_. His philosophy of the Higher Man
and the OverMan expresses the epitome of Satanism.

_Adversary & Accuser_

        The Satanist has adopted the archetype of 'Satan' because the name
itself means 'aversary' and 'accuser'. Today we are not only the
adversaries and accusers of Judaeo-Christianity, but of all levelling
creeds which stifle human biological and cultural ascent, be they
religious, moral, political or philosophical.

        The opposition implies more than a merely negative reaction ; our
stance brings us back to certain _positive_ principles. It is the slave
creeds which are anti-life and negative ; Satanism is the doctrine of
Life-affirmed.

        Satanism is too often defined by Anti-Satanists, and what emerges
is that which is embraced by the juvenile and the imbalanced. The
stereotpye is quite different from the reality.

        If Satanism is to be true in it's first principle of advancing the
godhood of the individual (Nietzsche's OverMan) for example, then it
should, to be consistent, repudiate any activity which dissipates the
mental and physical health of the individual, including excessive alcohol,
tobacco, and drug use.

_Dividing Goats from Sheep_

        "It is easy to see the inverse pentagram as a diagramatic
representation of a goat - the points making its horns, ears and beard.
this has led to its becoming the symbol of Pan, the nature God of Greek
mythology." states an article from _Magic Pentacle_

        Satanists have no problem with this defintion of the symbol, for
the goat and the Goat-God are representative of fertility and vitality,
implying an aspect of Satanism's Carnal Doctrine. However, the inverse
pentagram also symbolizes something more than primal nature-worship ; it is
that of the individual above the mass.

        "And he shall separate them one from another, as a shepard divideth
        his sheep from the goats. And he shall set the sheep on his right,
        but the goats on his left." (1)

        That's us ; the Satanist goats. We refuse to run with the flock; We
will not be herded. It is no christ that does the separating, but our own
act of Will. 'Creative alienation' is how some Satanists have described it.

_The Satanic Mission_

        The mission of the Satanist is more than the hexing of his
neighbor's livestock. It is the advocating of the ascent of Man, which
necessitates being the 'adversary' and 'accuser' of the presently-dominant
systems which are dragging humanity back to the primal slime of
undifferentiated existence with their egalitarianism and collectivism.

References

1. _Mathew_ 25: 32-33


