


                                           TESLA, Inc.
              
                                   (a non profit corporation)
        
        
                                            Proposal:
        
                                          PROJECT TESLA
        
        
        
                    The Demonstration of Artificially Stimulated Resonance of 
                
                                the Earth's Ionosphere Waveguide:
        
                  a precursor for the wireless transmission of vast amounts of
        
                           electrical power using the Schumann Cavity. 
        
        
        
        
                                        February 21, 1989
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
              Toby Grotz                                     James Sheppard
              President                                      Secretary/Treasurer
        
        
              Mary Estill Buchanan                           Gardner Robertson
              Director                                       Director






                                        TABLE OF CONTENTS
        
        
              Abstract                                                          3
        
              Introduction                                                      3
        
              Assessment of Need                                                4
        
              Project Objectives                                                5
        
              Methods                                                           6
        
              Evaluation Procedure                                              7
        
              Regulating Agencies                                               7
        
              Environmental Considerations                                      7
        
              Project Administration                                            8
        
              Future Funding                                                    8
        
              Timetable                                                         9
        
              Financial Projections                                            10
        
              Tesla, Inc., History, Objectives                                 13
        
              Personnel                                                        13
        
              Appendix                                                         15
        
                 Resumes
        
              References:
        
                "PC  Monitors  Lightning  Worldwide",  by  Davis  D.  Sentman,   in 
              Computers in Science, Premiere Issue, 1987.
        
                The  following  four  papers  were  presented  at  the  1984  Tesla 
              Centennial Symposium and the 1986 International Tesla Symposium.
        
                "The  Transient Propagation of ELF Pulses in  the  Earth-Ionosphere 
              Cavity", by A-Ahamid Aidinejad and James F. Corum.
        
                "Disclosures  Concerning  the Operation of an ELF  Oscillator",  by 
              James F. Corum and Kenneth L. Corum.
        
                "A Physical Interpretation of the Colorado Springs Data", by  James 
              F. Corum and Kenneth L. Corum.
        
                "Critical    Speculations   Concerning   Tesla's   Invention    and 
              Applications of Single Electrode X-Ray Directed Discharges for  Power 
              Processing,  Terrestrial  Resonances and Particle  Beam  Weapons"  by 
              James F. Corum and Kenneth L. Corum.






                                            Abstract
              
                It has been proven by researchers, W. O. Schumann and Dr. James  R. 
              Waite,  that  electrical energy can be propagated  around  the  world 
              between the surface of the Earth and the ionosphere at extremely  low 
              frequencies in what is known as the Schumann Cavity.  Experiments  to 
              date  have shown that electromagnetic waves with frequencies  in  the 
              range  of  8  Hz,  the  fundamental  Schumann  Resonance   frequency, 
              propagate  with  little  attenuation around  the  planet  within  the 
              Schumann Cavity.
        
                The  Schumann  Cavity  can  be resonated,  similar  to  the  way  a 
              magnetron  tube  excites the cavity of a home  microwave  oven.   The 
              power  that is delivered to the cavity propagates at very low  losses 
              and   can  be  extracted  at  other  locations  within  the   cavity.  
              Experimental  data  collected and calculations made in  recent  years 
              support  the hypothesis that wireless power transmission is a  viable 
              and   practical   alternative  to  the  present  systems   of   power 
              transmission.
        
                                          Introduction
        
                It was not until 1954-1959 that experimental measurements were made 
              of   the  frequency  that  is  propagated  in  the  resonant   cavity 
              surrounding  the  Earth.  Recent analysis shows that  it  was  Nikola 
              Tesla in 1899, who first noticed the existence of stationary waves in 
              the  Schumann cavity.  Tesla's experimental measurements of the  wave 
              length  and frequency involved closely match  Schumann's  theoretical 
              calculations.   These observations were made in 1899 while Tesla  was 
              monitoring the electromagnetic radiations due to lightning discharges 
              in  a thunderstorm.  It passed over his Colorado  Springs  laboratory 
              and  then moved more than 200 miles eastward across the  plains.   In 
              his  Colorado Springs Notes, Tesla noted that these stationary  waves 
              "...  can be produced with an oscillator," and added in  parenthesis, 
              "This is of immense importance."  The importance of his  observations 
              is  due  to  the  support they lend to the  prime  objective  of  the 
              Colorado  Springs laboratory.  The intent of the experiments and  the 
              laboratory   Tesla  had  constructed  was  to  prove  that   wireless 
              transmission of electrical power was possible.
        
                At  the time of his measurements, Tesla was experimenting with  and 
              researching  methods for, "...power transmission and transmission  of 
              intelligible  messages  to any point on  the globe."  Tesla  was  not 
              able  to  commercially market a system to transmit power  around  the 
              globe.   However modern scientific theory, mathematical  calculations 
              and data collected during the last sixty years support his contention 
              that  the  wireless propagation of electrical power is  possible.  It 
              would  be a feasible alternative to the extensive and costly grid  of 
              electrical  transmission  lines  used  today  for  electrical   power 
              distribution.
        
                It  has  been  shown  by Schumann that  electrical  energy  can  be 
              propagated around the world between the surface of the earth and  the 
              ionosphere.  The energy is propagated in this "Schumann Cavity" at  a 
              very   low  frequencies.   Experiments  to  date  have   shown   that 
              electromagnetic wave propagation occurs at a frequency of about eight 






              cycles  and  that  the propagation occurs with very  little  loss  or 
              attenuation.   The electromagnetic techniques to be used to  transmit 
              power  in  the  Schumann  Cavity  are  similar  to  microwave  signal 
              generation in a magnetron cavity and propagation in a waveguide.  The 
              latter technology is very well known and is used in microwave  ovens, 
              radar, and communication systems.
        
                High energy excitation is necessary to resonate the Schumann Cavity 
              and  transfer power.  Lightning is a natural  atmospheric  phenomenon 
              that provides high energy discharges.  It is expected that  lightning 
              would  transfer  power  to the Schumann  Cavity.   Indeed,  lightning 
              discharges  throughout the world occur at a combined rate of  several 
              per  second. However, due to their random nature they do not  produce 
              useful  power.  The presence of this energy is easily detected by  AM 
              radios during a thunderstorm.  These discharges are disorganized  and 
              produce  a wide range of frequencies from a few cycles per second  to 
              several thousand cycles per second.  The higher frequencies attenuate 
              rapidly with distance. The extremely low frequencies, which match the 
              resonant frequency of the cavity, are reinforced and propagate  great 
              distances with very little loss.  The wavelength of eight cycles  per 
              second  is  equal to the circumference of the Earth at  the  equator.  
              One cycle of this frequency fits perfectly within the Schumann Cavity 
              and circles the earth.
        
                The  purpose  of Project Tesla is to create pulses,  or  electrical 
              disturbances,  that would travel in all directions around  the  Earth 
              and  resonate in the thin membrane of nonconductive air  between  the 
              ground  and  the ionosphere in the Schumann Cavity.  The  pulses,  or 
              waves, would follow the surface of the Earth expanding outward to the 
              maximum circumference of the Earth, until meeting at a point opposite 
              to that of the transmitter.  This point is called the antipode.   The 
              exact location has been calculated to be above an area in the  Indian 
              Ocean far from any land mass.  The traveling waves would be reflected 
              from  the  antipode to the transmitter, be reinforced, and  sent  out 
              again.   This  process,  analogous to pushing a  pendulum,  would  be 
              repeated at  8.0 Hz, the resonant frequency of the Schumann Cavity.
                
                                       Assessment of Need
        
                A great concern has been voiced in recent years over the  extensive 
              use of energy, the limited supply of resources, and the pollution  of 
              the  environment from the use of present energy  conversion  systems.  
              Electrical  power accounts for much of the energy consumed.  Much  of 
              this power is wasted during transmission from power plant  generators 
              to  the consumer.  The resistance of the wire used in the  electrical 
              grid  distribution  system  causes a loss of  26-30%  of  the  energy 
              generated.   This loss implies that our present system of  electrical 
              distribution is only 70-74% efficient. 
        
                A  system  of  power  distribution with little  or  no  loss  would 
              conserve  energy.  It would reduce pollution and  expenses  resulting 
              from the need to generate power to overcome and compensate for losses 
              in  the  present  grid system.  Based on the  1971  world-wide  power 
              generation  of  908  million  kilowatts,  approximately  207  million 
              kilowatts are being produced to make up for losses.  This results  in 
              a  cost  of  454 billion dollars at 5 cents a  kilowatt.   The  power 






              wasted  in  transmission now costs over 100 billion dollars  a  year.  
              Wireless transmission of power, if fully utilized, could save over 90 
              billion  dollars  per  year.  Any technology that  can  reduce  these 
              losses and the corresponding costs is of extreme importance.
                The   proposed  project  would  demonstrate  a  method  of   energy 
              distribution  calculated  to  be  90-94%  efficient.   An  electrical 
              distribution  system, based on this method would eliminate  the  need 
              for  an  inefficient, costly, and capital intensive grid  of  cables, 
              towers,  and  substations.   The  system would  reduce  the  cost  of 
              electrical  energy  used  by the consumer and rid  the  landscape  of 
              wires, cables, and transmission towers. 
        
                There  are areas of the world where the need for  electrical  power 
              exists,  yet there is no method for delivering power.  Africa  is  in 
              need  of power to run pumps to tap into the vast resources  of  water 
              under  the  Sahara  Desert.  Rural areas, such  as  those  in  China, 
              require  the electrical power necessary to bring them into  the  20th 
              century and to equal standing with western nations.
        
                As  first proposed by Buckminster Fuller, wireless transmission  of 
              power  would  enable  world  wide distribution  of  off  peak  demand 
              capacity.   This  concept  is based on the fact  that  some  nations, 
              especially the United States, have the capacity to generate much more 
              power  than is needed.  This situation is accentuated at night.   The 
              greatest  amount of power used, the peak demand, is during  the  day.  
              The extra power available during the night could be sold to the  side 
              of the planet where it is day time.  Considering the huge capacity of 
              power  plants  in  the United States, this  system  would  provide  a 
              saleable product which could do much to aid our balance of payments.
            
                 In  1971,  nine  industrialized nations, (with 25  percent  of  the 
              world's  population),  used 690 kilowatts, 76 percent  of  all  power 
              generated.   The rest of the world used only 218  million  kilowatts.  
              By  comparison, China generated only 17 million kilowatts  and  India 
              generated only 15 million kilowatts (less than two percent each).  If 
              a  conservative  assumption was made that the three-quarters  of  the 
              world which is only using one-quarter of the current power production 
              were  to  eventually consume as much as the first  quarter,  then  an 
              additional  908  million kilowatts will be needed.   The  demand  for 
              electrical power will continue to increase with the industrialization 
              of the world.
        
                A  system of wireless transmission of power would  make  electrical 
              energy  available to people and nations which are not now  privileged 
              with the access to power developed nations take for granted.
        
        
                                       Project Objectives
        
                The  objectives of the proposed project will be divided into  three 
              areas of investigation:
                1. Demonstration that the Schumann Cavity can be resonated with
                   an open air, vertical dipole antenna;
                2. Measurement of power insertion losses;
                3. Measurement of power retrieval losses locally.
        






                                             Methods
        
                A full size, 51 foot diameter, air core, radio frequency resonating 
              coil  and a 120 foot tower have been constructed and are  operational 
              at  an  elevation of approximately 11,000 feet  for  the  experiment.  
              This system is centered around a very powerful resonating Tesla Coil. 
              It  was  originally  built in 1973-1974 and used until  1982  by  the 
              United States Air Force at Wendover AFB in Wendover, Utah.  The  USAF 
              used  the  coil  for simulating natural  lightning  for  testing  and 
              hardening  fighter  aircraft.   The  system has  a  capacity  of  150 
              kilowatts.   The coil, which is the largest part of the  system,  has 
              already been built, tested, and is operational.
        
                A  location  at  a  high altitude  is  initially  advantageous  for 
              reducing atmospheric losses which work against an efficient  coupling 
              to  the Schumann Cavity.  The high frequency, high voltage output  of 
              the coil will be half wave rectified using a uniquely designed single 
              electrode   X-ray   tube.    The  X-ray  tube   will   be   used   to 
              electrostatically  charge  a 120 ft. tall, vertical mast  which  will 
              function to provide a vertical current moment.  The mast is topped by 
              a metal sphere 30 inches in diameter.  A circulating current of 1,000 
              amperes in the system will create an ionization and corona causing  a 
              large  virtual electrical capacitance in the medium  surrounding  the 
              sphere.  Discharging the antenna 7-8 times per second through a fixed 
              or  rotary spark gap will create electrical disturbances, which  will 
              resonantly  excite  the  Schumann Cavity, and  propagate  around  the 
              entire Earth. 
             
                 The  propagated wave front will be reflected from the antipode  and 
              reflected  to  the  transmitter site.  The  reflected  wave  will  be 
              reinforced and again radiated when it returns to the transmitter.  As 
              a  result, an oscillation will be established and maintained  in  the 
              Schumann Cavity.  The loss of power in the cavity has been  estimated 
              to  be about 6% per round trip.  If the same amount of power  is  put 
              into  the  cavity on each cycle of oscillation  of  the  transmitter, 
              there  will be a net energy gain which will result in a net  voltage, 
              or  amplitude increase.  This will result in reactive energy  storage 
              in  the  cavity.  As long as energy is delivered to the  cavity,  the 
              process  will  continue  until  the energy  is  removed  by  heating, 
              lightning  discharges, or as is proposed by this project, loading  by 
              tuned circuits at distant locations for power distribution.  
        
                The  resonating cavity field will be detected by stations  both  in 
              the  United States and overseas. These will be staffed  by  engineers 
              and scientists who have agreed to participate in the experiment.  
        
                Measurement of power insertion and retrieval losses will be made at 
              the  transmitter site and at distant receiving locations.   Equipment 
              constructed    especially   for   measurement   of   low    frequency 
              electromagnetic  waves will be employed to measure the  effectiveness 
              of  using  the  Schumann  Cavity  as  a  means  of  electrical  power 
              distribution.  The detection equipment used by project personnel will 
              consist of a pick up coil and industry standard low noise, high  gain 
              operational amplifiers and active band pass filters,
        
        






                In  addition  to project detection there will be a  record  of  the 
              experiment  recorded  by a network of monitoring stations  that  have 
              been  set up specifically to monitor electromagnetic activity in  the 
              Schumann  Cavity.  
        
                                      Evaluation Procedure
        
                The  project will be evaluated by an analysis of the data  provided 
              by  local  and  distant  measurement stations.   The  output  of  the 
              transmitter  will  produce  a 7-8 Hz sine wave as  a  result  of  the 
              discharges from the antenna.  The recordings made by distant stations 
              will  be  time  synchronized to ensure that the data  received  is  a 
              result of the operation of the transmitter.
        
                Power  insertion  and retrieval losses will be analyzed  after  the 
              measurements   taken   during   the   transmission   are    recorded.  
              Attenuation,  field strength, and cavity Q will be  calculated  using 
              the  equations  presented in Dr. Corum's papers.   These  papers  are 
              supplied in the appendix.  If recorded results indicate power can  be 
              efficiently  coupled  into or transmitted in the Schumann  Cavity,  a 
              second phase of research involving power reception will be initiated.
        
                                       Regulating Agencies
        
                The Radio Regulations of the International Telecommunications Union 
              (ITU), Article 2, Section 11, Geneva; 1959, list world wide frequency 
              allocations from 10 kilohertz to 275 gigahertz.  Frequencies below 10 
              kilohertz  and above 275 gigahertz are not allocated.  In the  United 
              States   the   Federal  Communications   Commission   has   allocated 
              frequencies in accordance with ITU regulations.  In effect, there  is 
              no  governmental agency in the world that has jurisdiction  over  the 
              frequency of operation of Project Tesla.
        
                                  Environmental Considerations
        
                The extreme low frequencies (ELF), present in the environment  have 
              several  origins.   The time varying magnetic fields  produced  as  a 
              result  of solar and lunar influences on ionospheric currents are  on 
              the  order  of 30 nanoteslas.  The largest time  varying  fields  are 
              those generated by solar activity and thunderstorms.  These  magnetic 
              fields  reach a maximum of 0.5 microteslas (uT)  The magnetic  fields 
              produced  as a result of lightning discharges in the Schumann  Cavity 
              peak at 7, 14, 20 and 26 Hz.  The magnetic flux densities  associated 
              with these resonant frequencies vary from 0.25 to 3.6 picoteslas. per 
              root hertz (pT/Hz1/2).
        
                Exposure  to man made sources of ELF can be up to 1  billion  (1000 
              million  or 1 x 109) times stronger than that of naturally  occurring 
              fields.  Household appliances operated at 60 Hz can produce fields as 
              high as 2.5 mT.  The field under a 765 kV, 60 Hz power line  carrying 
              1  amp  per phase is 15 uT.  ELF antennae systems that are  used  for 
              submarine  communication  produce  fields of 20  uT.   Video  display 
              terminals produce fields of 2 uT, 1,000,000 times the strength of the 
              Schumann Resonance frequencies.
        
                Project  Tesla will use a 150 kw generator to excite  the  Schumann 






              cavity.  Dr. Corum's calculations predict that the field strength due 
              to this excitation at 7.8 Hz will be on the order of 46 picoteslas.
        
                                     Project Administration
        
                Project  Tesla  will  be administered  by  an  executive  committee 
              composed  of members of the Board of Tesla Inc.  The chairman of  the 
              executive  committee  will  make  decisions  concerning  day  to  day 
              operations.   The  project budget will be approved by  the  Board  of 
              Directors.   Any expenditures not specified in the  original  budget, 
              over  $1,000, will require the approval of the  executive  committee.  
              Additional  expenditures over $5,000 will need approval of the  Board 
              of Directors.  A Certified Public Accountant will be retained to make 
              quarterly  statements.   A book keeper will keep weekly  and  monthly 
              records  of  expenditures.  All purchased equipment  will  receive  a 
              project  ID  number  which will  aid  property  accountability.   All 
              aspects  of  project administration will be in  accordance  with  any 
              guidelines or requirements stipulated by the funding agency.
        
                                         Future Funding
               
                The  successful  resonating  of the Schumann  Cavity  and  wireless 
              transmission  of  power  on  a small  scale  resulting  in  proof  of 
              principle  will  require  the engineering  and  design  of  receiving 
              stations.   On completion of the second phase, the third  and  fourth 
              phases of the project involving further tests and improvements and  a 
              large scale demonstration project will be pursued to prove commercial 
              feasibility.
        
                A larger system of several megawatts in size can be constructed  to 
              transmit power to a distant site such as a construction site in  need 
              of a large amount of electrical energy.
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                            TIMETABLE
        
        
              TASK                     |----------- FIRST YEAR ARO -----------|
                                 MONTH    1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10 11 12
        






              Inventory existing       |----|
                hardware               
        
              Purchase Materials       |---------------|
                
              Design Improvements      |---------------|
                to coil
        
              Replace burned wire          |-----|
                on coil
        
              Replace bearings on                |--|
                break wheel
        
              Tune Coil                             |--|
        
              X-Ray Tube Design        
                Design                 |----------------|
                Manufacture            |-----------------------------------|
                Test                                     |--------------------|
        
              Design Tower Discharge                  |--|
                Mechanism
        
              Build Tower Discharge                      |--|
                Mechanism
        
              Build ELF Detectors                   |------|
                Arrange Monitoring
                 Stations
        
              Resonate Schumann Cavity                    |-------------------|
                Detect Resonance
        
              NOTE:   This timetable is projected based on one year  of  experience 
              with existing equipment.  Some areas of effort involve pure  research 
              rather  than applied research.  This is the case especially with  the 
              X-Ray  tube  design.  
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                      FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
        
        
              PHASE 1.              FIRST YEAR          MATERIAL      $ 34.5K
              TUNE TRANSMITTER                          LABOR           97.3K






              BUILD X-RAY TUBES                         EXPENSES        18.2K
                                                        FACILITY        70.0K
                   
                                                               TOTAL  $220.0K
        
        
        
        
              PHASE 2.              SECOND YEAR         MATERIALS     $ 34.5K
              DESIGN &                                  LABOR           67.0K
              BUILD                                     EXPENSES        12.0K
              RECEIVER                                               
                                                               TOTAL  $112.0K
        
                                         
        
        
              PHASE 3.              THIRD YEAR          MATERIALS     $ 10.0K
              TEST SYSTEM                               LABOR           30.0K
              IMPROVE DESIGN                            EXPENSES        90.0K
        
                                                               TOTAL  $130.0K
        
        
        
        
              PHASE 4.              FORTH YEAR          MATERIALS    $ 500.0K
              INDUSTRIAL                                LABOR          300.0K
              PROTOTYPE                                 EXPENSES       100.0K
        
                                                               TOTAL $ 900.0K
                                                    
                                                       PROJECT TOTAL $1360.0K
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                        FIRST YEAR BUDGET
        
        
              Materials
                Purchase of support equipment and hardware    






                 a. Glass blowing and manufacturing equipment                 1.0K
                 b. Power tools and hand tools                                1.0K
                 c. Sulfur Hexaflouride and cylinder                          1.0K
                 d. Wire, 5200 ft. of #6, 3,000 working volts                10.0K
                 e. 2 kw generator & 150 kw generator                         6.5K
                 f. High voltage capacitors                                   2.0K
                 g. PC for record keeping/data acquisition                    3.0K
                 h. Electronic instrumentation                                2.0K 
                 i. Vacuum Station support equipment                          1.0K
                Books, access to data bases                                   1.0K
                Vehicle                                                       6.0K
        
                                                                    TOTAL    34.5K
        
        
              Labor (Contract)
                Design and hardware improvements to present system           40.0K
                X-ray tube manufacture, custom design                        30.0K
                X-ray tube testing                                           10.0K
                Electro-mechanical design and assembly                       10.0K
                Administrative/Bookkeeping                                    6.3K
                Technical Review                                              1.0K
        
                                                                    TOTAL    97.3K  
        
              Lab Facility                                          TOTAL   220.0K  
        
              Operating expenses                                             
                Office supplies/computer supplies                             1.2K
                Office/Lab rent, remodel College
                   facilities for 2 year lease                                9.2K
                Fuel for generators                                           1.0K
                Vehicle                                                       1.0K
                Insurance                                                     1.0K
                Phone                                                         2.4K
                Travel                                                        2.4K
                                     
                                                                    TOTAL    18.2K
        
        
                                                            PROJECT TOTAL  $220.0K
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                       SECOND YEAR BUDGET
        
              Materials
                Purchase of support equipment and hardware    
                 a. High voltage, flexible wire                              10.0K






                 b. Power semiconductors                                      1.0K
                 c. 3-phase motor speed controllers                           5.0K
                 d. High voltage capacitors                                   5.0K
                 e. Aerial support equipment                                 10.0K
                 f. Data aquisition/Electronic hardware                       2.0K
        
                                                                    TOTAL    33.0K
        
              Labor (Contract)
                Unskilled                                                     5.0K
                Electrical Design                                            30.0K
                Mechanical Design                                            30.0K
                Administrative/Bookkeeping                                    2.0K
        
                                                                    TOTAL    67.0K
              Operating expenses                                             
                Office supplies                                               1.0K
                Fuel for generators                                           1.0K
                Vehicles                                                      1.0K
                Phone                                                         1.0K
                Symposium fund                                                5.0K
                Travel                                                        3.0K
        
                                                                    TOTAL    12.0K
        
        
                                                            PROJECT TOTAL $ 112.0K
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                TESLA Inc, History and Objectives
        
                TESLA  Inc. is a nonprofit corporation.  Incorporated  on  November 
              12th,  1987, TESLA Inc. was formed primarily to engage in  innovative 
              research  in  the field of electromagnetics.   The  organization  has 






              begun  research  with  a study of the  feasibility  of  the  wireless 
              transmission of power.  The goals and objectives of the  organization 
              are as follows:
        
                The purposes of this Corporation are: to increase awareness of  and 
              to  stimulate  interest in new discoveries in the  scientific  arena, 
              particularly,  electromagnetics  and  the  wireless  transmission  of 
              electrical power, to promote the inventions, discoveries and theories 
              of  Nikola  Tesla (1856 - 1946); to organize meetings  of  interested 
              engineers,  scientists  and laymen; to  provide  various  educational 
              scientific  and  historical materials; to publish annual  results  of 
              research  for  the  public without preference to  any  individual  or 
              organization;  to  retain  ownership  of  any  patents,   copyrights, 
              processes  or  formulas resulting from research; and to  promote  and 
              engage   in  contracted  and  sponsored  research  in  the  area   of 
              electromagnetism  and the discoveries and theories of  Nikola  Tesla.  
              Research in the arena of wireless transmission of power will be known 
              as  Project  Tesla.   This  Corporation  is  organized  and  operated 
              exclusively for educational, research, and scientific purposes within 
              the meaning of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 
              as amended.
        
                                            Personnel
        
              Mr. Toby Grotz, President, is an electrical engineer and has 15 years 
              experience  in  the  field of geophysics,  aerospace  and  industrial 
              research  and  design.  While working for  the  Geophysical  Services 
              Division  of  Texas  Instruments and at the University  of  Texas  at 
              Dallas,  Mr. Grotz was introduced to and worked with the  geophysical 
              concepts  which  are  of importance to the proposed  project.   As  a 
              Senior Engineer at Martin Marietta, Mr. Grotz designed and supervised 
              the  construction of industrial process control systems and  designed 
              and  built devices and equipment for use in research and  development 
              and  for  testing  space flight hardware.  Mr.  Grotz  organized  and 
              chaired   the   1984  Tesla  Centennial  Symposium   and   the   1986 
              International Tesla Symposium and was president of the  International 
              Tesla  Society, a not for profit corporation formed as a  result  the 
              first  symposium.   As Project Manager for Project Tesla,  Mr.  Grotz 
              aided in the design and construction of a recreation of the equipment 
              Nikola  Tesla used for wireless transmission of power experiments  in 
              1899  in Colorado Springs.  Mr. Grotz received his B.S.E.E. from  the 
              University of Connecticut in 1973.
        
              Mr.  James Sheppard, Secretary/Treasurer, is a technical  writer  for 
              Martin Marietta and has 5 years experience in the professional  field 
              of  writing.   He earned his BA in English from  North  Dakota  State 
              University, Fargo, North Dakota in 1977.  As a technical writer,  Mr. 
              Sheppard  has  had  experience with  writing  manuals  for  operating 
              various signal processing equipment, test procedures, and engineering 
              procedures  for  aerospace  application,  as  well  as  assisting  in 
              preparation  of customer presentations and proposals.   Mr.  Sheppard 
              has  also held the position as Secretary in a nonprofit  corporation, 
              the International Tesla Society.
        
              Mary  Estill  Buchanan,  Director, is  a  management  consultant  and 
              writer.   She  is  the former Secretary of  State  for  Colorado  and 






              remains active in political and national affairs.  The first woman to 
              receive an M.B.A. with distinction  from the Harvard Business  School 
              in 1962, she also holds a B.A. in Chemistry from Wellesley College.
        
              Gardner  Robertson, Director, is a consultant to the mining  industry 
              in the central Rocky Mountains.  Mr. Robertson retired from the  AMAX 
              Inc.  molybdenum  mine  at  Climax Colorado in  1976.   As  a  Senior 
              Electrical  Engineer Mr. Robertson supervised  contracted  electrical 
              construction  both above and below ground.  Mr. Robertson  introduced 
              Project  Tesla to AMAX management and acts as a liaison  between  the 
              project and local mine administration.
        
              Dr. James F. Corum, Technical Director, was an Assistant Professor of 
              Electrical  Engineering  at  West Virginia University and  is  now  a 
              consultant for the broadcast industry working with CPG Communications 
              near  Cleveland,  Ohio.   Dr. Corum proved  mathematically  that  the 
              experimental  data  Nikola Tesla recorded during his  experiments  in 
              Colorado  Springs,  in 1899, fit the  equations  for  electromagnetic 
              propagation  in  the  Schumann  Cavity as  developed  and  proven  by 
              Schumann,   Waite,   and   others.   Dr.  Corum   has   also   proven 
              mathematically  that  it  may be possible to  resonate  the  Schumann 
              Cavity as described in this proposal.
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        






        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                            APPENDIX
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        






        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        



