Psychic development exercises, part 2  HEALING WORK
                                         and AURAS
by Matrika
copyright by PAN - the Psychic Awareness Network - 1-703-362-1139
please do not distribute without credit
THe material in this file is drawn from the book
Your Psychic Gifts
by Steve and Tasha Halpert
Healing Arts Press
13 Sartell Rd
Grafton MA
and from the book The COmplete Book of Witchcraft
by Raymond Buckland, published by Llewelyn Publications, box 64383 St. Paul MN
as well as the teachings of the Rosicrucian Order (AMORC) San Jose, CA.

1.  Go into meditation, by whatever technique you prefer.  Hold your receptive
hand (your dominant hand is the hand you use to write, draw, eat etc.  If you
are ambi-dextrous or right-handed, this is your right hand.  if you are
completely left-handed, this is your left-hand.  Your receptive hand is the
opposite one) at right-angles to your dominant hand and close your eyes.  Feel
where you feel the aura.  You may feel it as a tingle, a cold feeling, a warm
feeling, or some other way.  Play with it.  See where you start to feel it.
Now reverse hands and try it.

2.  So the above exercise, but then take both hands and play with the aura's
energy.  See if you can stretch the aura's energy out between your two hands.
(you can visualize this - or intensely imagine it from a meditative state, in
vivid detail - as looking like the aura being light energy that forms a
string, like Pizza cheese does when it is hot; stretch it out between your
hands.)  Play with it as you would play-dough, form it into a ball - then
think of someone you know who needs inner (mental/emotional/spiritual) or
physical healing, and visualize it going to them as you send it out in the
cosmos.

3.  For this you need a co-operative partner.  If it is a male, have him take
his shirt off.  IF it is a female, ask her to wear a bathing suit with a very
low back or a very thin material in her blouse or dress.  Have them sit with
their back to you.  Charge yourself with deep breathing.  Place your dominant
hand at right angles toward their back and, without touching them, try to feel
their aura.  See when they can feel your hand touching their aura.  As you
feel their aura, see where there are areas that feel "Different" in any way,
these may be hot or cold spots or you may feel them in some other way.  Ask
them if they've been having or have ever had a problem in these areas.

3.  In a semi-darkened room, place a dark sheet against the wall and ask your
partner to stand in a witch's robe or a caftan made of very thin material and
stand against it.  Turn the lights down to a minimum and go into a meditative
state as you stare at the person.  See if you don't soon see s faint glow
around them.  This is the aura.  See if it looks different in any places.
What color is it where?  How do the colors feel to you?  Where the colors look
different and don't feel right to you, again, inquire about the person's past
and present health conditions in those areas.  Do not be surprised if you can
see the aura, although you did not feel it OR feel it, but don't see it.  This
is common.  All of this will take practise, but remember to keep it simple -
like a game.

4.  Charge yourself by taking a deep breath and repeating it 3 times, if you
should get a headache.  (this should be held for at least 30 seconds each
time)  Be sure your hands are NOT touching anything as you charge up with the
Vital Force carried by the air - also known as Prana.  Close your eyes and
place the first fingers of each hand on your temples.  As you breathe, just
slightly deeper than usual now, feel the energy going into your head.  After a
few minutes, just lay your entire dominant hand across your forehead, with
your palm facing it.  If you also think the headache is related to eye -
strain, re-charge and put your first fingers on your closed eyelids too and
send energy there as well.  If the headache is in it's early stages, many
people report they are able to bring themselves relief this way.  Of course a
severe headache or one that goes on for a long time or frequent headaches
should be treated by a competent health care professional.  Healing treatments
such as this one should never be a substitute for proper care, but can be a
useful adjunct to it in many cases.

5.  The heart breath
If you are know someone who is going through a difficult time emotionally, you
can try to help them by this exercise.  Again, if a person has severe
problems or it is ongoing, they may need competent help by a counselor or
psychologist or even (ONLY in the most severe cases, of course) a
Psychiatrist.  In a severe crisis, contact your local chapter of the
Samaritans or other Crisis Center or Emergency Mental Health Unit.  These are
usually listed with other hot-line numbers in the beginning pages of your
phone book.  However, for the average, day to day upsets, this technique can
be useful.

As always start by going into a meditative state and helping the other person
to do so.  Breathe in deeply and charge yourselves.  Then have the other
person put their dominant hand over your heart and you put your receptive hand
over it.  Then you put your dominant hand over their heart, and have put their
receptive hand over it.  Breathe deeply (give instructions verbally, slowly
and in a calm, quiet voice, to the other person as you do this) and visualize
pink light coming in from above through the top of your head as you do this,
then as you breathe out, see it going through your dominant hand into your
partner's heart chakra (psychic center) and they visualize it going into you.
Breathe in again and draw in the light of unconditional love and peace.
Breathe it out into your partner.  Continue this for 5 - 10 minutes, as you
feel it intensify to the correct level.  Discontinue and ground the excess
energy by sending it into the earth.  (This can be visualized as going through
the floor down into the earth if necessary)  as you do this, place your hands
on the earth and let any excess energy go.  THIS IS IMPORTANT, so don't skip
it.
This can be done with your partner, just for practise.
