To all interested researchers:

The following is an edited version of material given to me in late
1991-early 1992 by two scientists who claim to be working in
weapons research and development for the Department of Defense.

I am not in a position to comment on the truthfulness or accuracy of
the information. The two men who have spoken to me do, in fact,
exist, and for all intents and purposes seem to be who and what they
claim. The very nature of the claims makes verification difficult, if
not impossible.

Divulging this information was the result of a moral dilemma, when
these two individuals, both Christians, became alarmed at the
course their research efforts into psychotronic weapons was taking
under the direction of their (unnamed) superiors. They described an
obsessive effort to contact and attempt to control what they
referred to as "non-human intelligences (NHI)", and to harness these
NHI for military and intelligence uses.

The efforts had progressed well past attempts at practical
applications of David Bohm's theories, and had grown to encompass
the use of, according to their statements, "satanic rituals-ritual
magic along the lines of that espoused by Aleister Crowley,
including human sacrifices." These gentlemen stated their concerns
that even when they were apparently able to harness, or channel
these forces or abilities for "good" uses, the force would "turn", and
ultimately all of those subjects involved suffered varying degrees of
negative effects from contact with these forces.  They are convinced
that what is being tapped into in all instances is evil, and that this
research should cease.

Contact has continued on a limited basis, with no new information of
significance forthcoming.   I cannot divulge any further information
regarding these sources due to promises of confidentiality. Again, I
make no claim for the truthfulness of these statements. As I
mention at the end of the notes, the information was presented in a
very formal, "scripted" fashion, which impressed me as odd. I was
allowed and encouraged to take notes during most of the discussion,
but was asked to cease at times. I have included some of this
apparently "super-sensitive" information at the end of the document.
Please remember though, the possibility is very real that the whole
scenario is disinformation.

I am making this information available to those interested who may
be able to add more pieces to the puzzle, or provide information
which would summarily prove its falsity. Any input would be
appreciated.

Thanks to all, Ray Boeche.

******************************************************
One of these leading American researchers stated that a division
exists in the field of paranormal research between "black" and
"white" projects, but  maintains  that there are no "good"
paranormal research efforts because "the occult is inherently evil".
There is a growing awareness that this type of research is very
dangerous, not only in a physical sense, but, "in a spiritual sense as
well."  Whatever doesn't come from God is evil, and Satan can
counterfeit many of God's miraculous actions."

Research is being done on teleportation, healing, extracting
information from the brains of dead subjects, remote viewing,
developing computers with the ability to interpret and record the
waveforms of thoughts, enabling them to be recorded and or
transmitted.

Several projects have been designed to study "negative healing", the
psychic infliction of pain, injury, and death.
             
PROPOSED MECHANISM OF PARANORMAL EVENTS,
BASED ON THE RESEARCH OF DAVID BOHM - see his book,"Wholeness and the 
Implicate Order"

Take 2 glass cylinders, one smaller than the other, place the smaller
inside the larger, and fill the space between with glycerine, a
colorless, thick, viscous fluid.

Introduce a drop of ink into the glycerine, and revolve the outer
cylinder.  As you do, the ink will stretch into a thread, growing
longer, thinner, and fainter, until it completely disappears.

The ink is now enfolded into the glycerine - you can't see it, but you
know it's there.  Where is it?  It is no longer in any single position.
It is spread out, nowhere and everywhere.

In extensive research, here and abroad, there is evidence to suggest
that everything that exists today, or that ever did exist, is similarly
enfolded in an invisible medium.  We become aware of things only
when they are unfolded out of the invisible medium into our reality.

Now, if you reverse the direction of the cylinders, the thread of ink
begins to reappear, much as if a film of the enfolding process were
being run backward.

One could enfold numberless ink droplets into the medium, and by
turning the cylinder backward, very rapidly, they would suddenly
appear, as if out of nowhere.

This is the mechanism of how we are aware of reality.  Enfolding and
unenfolding the ink drops in the glycerine is comparable to enfolding
and unenfolding an object backward and forward through time and
space.  Everything exists everywhere at once, enfolded into an
invisible, timeless medium.

Any object you imagine may not be visible right now, but a portion of
it exists here, invisibly enfolded, just like the ink drop existed
invisibly enfolded in the glycerine.

When you throw a pebble into a pond, the ripples move from the point
the pebble hits the water, hit the edge of the pond, create more
ripples that move back toward the center of the pond, and all these
ripples run into each other and the points at which they cross are
called interferences.

If you could freeze the pond, the points at which the ripples
interfered with each other would provide information about the
weight,shape, and movement of the pebble that caused them.
Theoretically, you would have enough information to create a 3-
dimensional representation of the pebble.

This is the principle behind the hologram.  Every point in a hologram
contains the entire picture, just like the first example, where every
point in the glycerine contained ink.  What this means, is that to
form a picture of the pebble we don't have to have all the points
where the ripples interfered with each other, we only need one of
them.

Highly complex wave patterns can be reduced to a collection of
simple waves that can be represented numerically.  These numbers
are called Fourier components, and the transformation of the waves
into numerical components is called a Fourier transform.

Using this, you can search the enfolding medium of space and time
for the Fourier components of an object, forward or backward
through time.  Everything that ever existed in has produced lasting
interference patterns in the sea of radiation formed at the instant
of creation.

Holography and Fourier transforms provide a way of separating an
image from its object, and viewing the image at a distance.  Your
mind actually does this every time you remember something.  You
see the image in your mind, though the object itself is somewhere
else in time and space.

There is probably more than one medium.  Each medium is enfolded
within another, a series of enfolding media.  The ultimate medium,
the one into which everything is enfolded is not a medium at all, it
is a Person, the Creator, transcendent, and existing prior to His
creation.

The world is composed, in one sense, of interference patterns - of
frequencies.  The frequency of things can be interfered with by
disruptive static frequencies.  If an object is characterized by
certain frequencies, it will be altered if those frequencies are
altered.

The human brain constantly performs Fourier analysis on all the
interference patterns in the enfolding medium.  The universe is a
hologram, and the brain is part of that hologram.  The brain contains
all of space and time, just as each fragment of a hologram contains
the entire picture.  If you had full access to the content of your
brain, you'd be able to see everything.

This is how the paranormal works.  That's how psychics know what
is happening remotely.  And by interfering with the Fourier
components of objects, whether inanimate, or living cells, they can
heal, create  illness, influence electronic components. Their minds
are tuned to the universal hologram - they have access to all the
Fourier components.

All human brains perform Fourier analysis, but some can access the
Fourier transforms to achieve paranormal feats.  These feats,
performed by humans, are unreliable and unquantifiable.

However, a psychotronic device could perform these functions better
than humans, just as a computer performs mathematical functions
better than humans.  In addition to being able to see and predict the
device would also be able to exert an effect on animate and
inanimate objects.

Psychokinetic ability follows an inverse-square law - the degree of
motion which can be caused decreases as the square of the mass of
the affected body.

What is being attempted is to electronically recognize frequency
interference patterns in space, screen them for Fourier components,
transform the components into viewable holographic images.

Enfoldment Technology - produces research on the use of various
waves to influence physical health and behavior.

The human brain is a receptor for portions of the electromagnetic
spectrum.  EM energy, when modulated, can act as a stimulus at some
point in the sensory systems.  This provides a physiological basis
for emotional and physical changes.
 
Fourier transforms are produced because everything produces an
interference pattern that is either an amplified signal or a scattered
wave pattern containing information that was present in the
brainwaves, or, in the case of something inanimate, in the object
itself.

The atmospheric carrier wave spreads the interference pattern over
the surface of the earth, and certain people or devices can perform
Fourier transforms to pick off the interference patterns and
reconstruct the originals.  The Fourier components of entire scenes -
buildings, landscapes, individuals, etc., are decodable by the
receiver.

The human organism is a liquid-crystal-like assembly of
biomolecules, and is capable of coherent and monochromatic
amplification of incoming electromagnetic waves in the kilohertz
region by more than a millionfold.   Neutrinos can be responsible for
the release of coded thought waves.  Since neutrinos can travel
unimpeded through the earth or other barriers, this is consistent
with the independence of psychotronic effects to distance and to
magnetic shielding.

Macroscopically, experimental evidence indicates that will-
influenced events can occur, for example, when tumbling dice are
influenced to come to rest in a desired position.  By psychotronically
influencing the atomic nuclei in the die, a person can generate
gravitational forces of the magnitude of about 15% of the earth's
gravitation.

According to some quantum-mechanical theorists, all matter is
indeterminate and dispersed, and actual reality must be described by
a wave function with an infinite set of sine states extending over
all of space and time.  David Bohm believes that matter must be
described by a multistate wave function.  The quantum wave is a
wave of knowledge and information.

This information isn't arranged in terms of position and time, but  as
frequency and amplitude information, and human consciousness
performs Fourier transforms on this to order that information into a
more familiar form.  Consciousness may, this way, access any part
of space and time to acquire information.  And, since it's known that
a particle with wave properties isn't located in a strictly
determined place, but can be all over the entire universe, or at
different points, simultaneously, a generalization from microcosm
to macrocosm makes possible the appearance of a macro-object
anywhere in the universe.

Each object present as a standing wave in a specific location in
space and time is all present at all points in space and time.
(Example:  The paper on which this is being written exists
everywhere and at all times simultaneously.  It was present last
year in the Andromeda system, except that there was less of it there
then than there is here now.)  Information about physical objects can
be enfolded and carried in electromagnetic waves, by electron
beams, neutrinos, gravitons, quantum-matter waves, and numerous
other forms of movement.

Planck's equation states that frequency and energy are the same
thing.  Since we know from Einstein that energy & matter are
convertible, it logically follows that frequency can be matter.  So,
from frequency interference patterns we should be able to produce
the physical objects that produced these patterns.  This is the
principle of the psychotronic devices function.  The function of the
is to bring out, by focusing, the wave structure of a distant object,
which is latently present in any particular point in space.  Likewise,
human psychological processes have wave characteristics, and the
mental images and thoughts of all people are present in every point
in space and time.  Recording and producing images as standing wave
forms that have been ejected outside the brain and externalized is
another accomplishment of this device.

The wave functions of quantum mechanics represent real matter
waves that permeate all space and time.  It requires only the will of
a capable person or a suitably designed device to perform an
operation on these waves that would permit the perception of any
scene in space and time.  It is through Fourier analysis of these
waves that objects and events distant in space and/or time can be
captured and visualized.

Researchers are now working on means to interface thought and
behavior directly through a transducer attached to the head and read
directly by a computer.  The computer can monitor, modify, and
control behavior without the subject's awareness.

There have been demonstrations of the psychotronic manipulation of
consciousness. Manipulation of physical health, as well as human
consciousness, thoughts, emotions, and will, has been achieved.

Effects on humans have included pain, paralysis, burns, and other
tissue damage, and acute coronary thrombosis. More success has
been achieved in the area of negative healing than with the positive
type.

To a significant degree, we are dealing with the supernatural, and
positive supernatural entities are superior to the negative.  Satan,
being an "evil angel" has far less power than God.

A psychotronic device is impossible to defend against, and its
effects, including changes in brain waves, can result in personality
changes and/or physical pain that, would alter combat effectiveness
of troops, or when used against military and political leaders,
impair the  ability to command and govern.  Such a device would be
capable of negatively affecting healthy tissue as well as disrupting
fundamental brain rhythms, heart control, and biological clock
mechanisms.

******************************************************
Information given, but not allowed to note during meeting:

Discussion of individuals killed during psychotronic weapons
experiments.

1.  Male, white, 25-30 yrs., allegedly death by remotely induced
cardiac arrest.
2.  Female, white, 20-25 yr., allegedly death by remotely
transmitting and creating head trauma equivalent to crushing of
right anterior portion of the skull.
3.  Male, white, 30-40 yrs., allegedly death by remotely controlled
suffocation.

Setting was laboratory environment, alleged victims were wired for
EEG & EKG, seated in reclining chair, somewhat similar to dentist's
chair.

In effort to establish contact with non-human intelligences, every
avenue is being explored.  Satanic rituals involving human sacrifice
have been peformed.  Much study is/has been given to writings of
Crowley.

Bentwaters experiment was the projection of an actual, physical
three-dimensional object, which could and did interact with its
environment, but was created(?) controlled by individuals involved
in this research.

No project names given because sources were too concerned leak
would be traced back to them.

******************************************************
Thoughts on information:

Presentation seemed very much scripted as if they were
presenting material memorized from  master script.

Presentation was deliberately slow enough to allow me to take
notes almost verbatim, except for portions when I was told to cease
writing.

Disinformation probability seems very high—why shift emphasis on
Bentwaters to psychotronic warfare?  It seems like a bizaare cover
story to use for an actual event which is, in itself, so bizaare.

Portions of eyewitness testimony would be easily explained by this
theory, but is the type of work they are describing even possible?  If
these techniques are well-developed, why not assassinate Sadaam
Hussein psychically, for instance?

Possibly another way to try and hide experimentation with alien
technology? (if that is a true scenario).

Could this possibly be the first chink in the coverup of the true
story:  that the entire UFO question, including abductions,
alien/government cooperation, and all the rest, while apparently
real, are ultimately a Satanic plot to deceive mankind into looking
for salvation from a technologically advanced alien race, rather than
to Christ? This would seem to fit perfectly with the eschatological
concerns expressed by many contactees/abductees. See I Timothy
4:1-3, 2 Timothy 3:1-9, 2 Thessalonians 2:1-16, 1 Corinthians 1:18-
25.
