The following is a excerpt from a lecture that was documented in a
book that I own. It was a lecture given by professional radionics
researchers. I do not know all the details of the device discussed,
and I am forwarding this information just for comparative purposes.
Just to show you how complicated this whole area can get!!!Enjoy!

         R E S E A R C H      W O R K     O N    T H E    H U M A N

             E L E C T R O M A G N E T I C      F I E L D
                 By Dr. E.A. Maury and Marguerite Maury

                       (THE AURA IN OTHER WORDS!)

It is admitted today (particularly through the work of the American
Scientist Dr, H. G. Burr, and his collaborators of the University of Yale)
that every living thing is surrounded by an electric aura produced by its
own organism.

The aura consists of an electric, dynamic field, an it plays an important 
part in determining the volume, the form and the biological behaviour of
every plant and animal. It is influenced by cosmic rays and by sun spots.
Life on the earth can thus be said to be electrically connected with the
entire dynamic system of the universe. In just a few words I shall recall
the experiments of Burr and his collaborators: by putting a salamander
into a salt solution connected to a registering apparatus by means of two
electrodes, and then revolving the receptacle containing the animal, the
existance of an electrical field flowing through the electrodes can be
established and registered. The same experiment has been made on human 
beings by placing each index finger of a healthy person in a small bowl
containing a salt solution; in which case the galvanometer indicates a 
value of 1.5 millivolts. If however one of the index fingers has an open
cut, the galvanometer will indicate a value of 12 millivolts. Thanks to
our new apparatus of electrical measures, we too have been able to
register the differences in voltage of healthy and sick organisms.

I shall dispense with a detailed description of our apparatus so as not
unduly to complicate our subject. I shall only recall that it contains
an amplifier having a sufficiently high gain to permit the obervation of
something intangible. The first thing then that the engineer who
constructed the apparatus did, was to perfect an amplifier to make it
provide a multiplication of approximately 10,000, the reception of the
amplifier being insured by an ultra-sensitive detector, constructed like
a microphone, capable of serving also as a cardiphone. The outgoing
terminal of the amplifier is connected to a cathode ray oscillograph
with a loud speaker recorder. This apparatus functions when connected to
the main electric supply after the tubes of the amplifier have warmed up
for a few seconds before a test is made.Technically, to perfect the
apparatus and to obtain clear-cut responses, anti-parasite filters
have been added. Later on we intend to undertake our experiments in a lead
screened room isolating us from the outside, for this should allow us to
record the electric field of a human being in all its purity,
establishing its exact numerical value.

The subject examined is made to stand on an insulating mat in front of the
apparatus. It is important that the subject should remain as silent and
motionless as possible to avoid vibrations caused by currents of air or 
sound, which can interfere.The operator then takes into his right hand
the microphone connected to the amplifying apparatus, and he holds it with
its lower surface parallel to the subject examined, and with distances 
from the subjects body varied. (We shall later appreciate the importance
that can be attributed to the respective values corresponding to the
distances between the emitting subjetc and the reciving microphone.)

When the current flowing through the amplifier is increased to a certain 
critical maximum, a characteristic whistling noise is heard in the 
loudspeaker and a certain sine wave image is produced as the oscillograph
records the screen picture. There the curves are rather close together
or the curves rather long. More-over there is a strict parallelism
between the intensity and the modulation of the sound signal and, on the
other hand, the rapidity and density of the wave picture on the oscillators
screen. At first we thought this might have been due to a Larsen Effect
or phenomenon related to the reflection of waves but succesive experiments
have proved that this phenomena plays only a very minor part in the
production of these wave forms. We have noticed, for instance, that the
visual and sound reactions recorded are not corresponding ones over all
parts of the body. For example, near the plexuses of the sympathetic
nervous system of certain subjects (cardiac plexus, solar plexus, lumbar
plexus) the sound modulations are very high and sharp (that is, of a 
very high frequency), whilst the waves shown on the screen are very close
to each other, this meaning, most probably, that the individuals in
question possess a strong magnetism. The reactions can be noted at a
distance of 15 feet and more. We have also noticed that the strongest 
reaction can be obtained near the regions of the body where the Hindu
chakras are situated. It seems, thenm, that these precise points are
indeed the pionts where vital energy is emitted.

I have described in as few words as possible our experimental technique
and operational methods employed to examine, as exteriorized
phenomena of physical apparatus, these fields of human radiations which
have been the object of so much controversy. Thanks to the same method
it has been possible for us besides to determine the presence of fields
of radiation which are exterior to an object. As an interesting
illustration of this, moving the microphone around a bust in terra cotta
we were able to observe the difference in the wave modulations near the
lower part of the face of the sculptured head and near the eyes. Is this
due to a phenomenon caused by the influence of form? It is possible.
Similiarly we have also been able to record the field of radiations
due to an oil painting representing a little fishing port. It should be
observed that there the modulations were entirley different according
to whether the microphone was placed near the part representing the sea,
or the part representing the earth and the low houses of the fishermen
of Brittany. Should this phenomenon be attributed to an influence due to
the chemical composition of the colours used? It is probably due to an
influence of color refraction, this much depending upon the objects 
painted by the artist.

It seems to have been now well established that by means of this apparatus
incontestably corresponding visible and audible reactions are obtained
as soon as the microphone is placed more or less close to an animate
or inanimate body, the degree of reation seeming to be in accordance with
the form and intensity of the radiating field. These experiments have
convinced us of the physical reality of an external field produced by
living beings and dead objects. This is only a small step forwards, as
we all very well know; for we now have to determine the exact wavelenghts
of these radiations which should vary according to the degree of health
of the individual examined. We have allready observed that each person
has his own oscillograph waveform, and that certain diseases such a
cancer, for example, produce the same general change in the appearance
of the personal waveform.

Certainly it is as yet too soon to draw any definite conclusions from
these experiments. I think that this method of examination should be
continued in order to try to establish the nature of signs conforming
to or giving indications of certain serious diseases before their full
development, the information being derived from modifications of the
oscillographic curves testifying to specific modifications of the
human wavelenghts, these modifications being observable from a
variation in the field of external radiations.

                          D I S C U S S I O N

Mr. Eagerton Sykes asked if the use of the word microphone was a
mistake in Dr. Maurys paper.
Mr. Macbeth (who has seen the Maury appliance) explained that
microphone was the name given to the collector which was applied
to the affected area of a patient by being held a few inches off the
skin. This collector conveys the detected influences to the
thermionic valve amplifier which finally produces a corresponding
oscillogram or else a musical note on a connected loud speaker.
Mr. de la Warr explained that the sound was a heterodyne effect derived
from an oscillating diaphragm.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Rat Head                                 Ratsnatcher          510-524-3649
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   415-567-7043
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
       arcane knowledge, political extremism, diversive sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
