               A  call for a worldwide 
                    campaign to kill Satan
by Helga Zepp-LaRouche

<This keynote speech to the Rome conference was delivered
on Jan. 19.>

    Dear friends of the Schiller Institute!
    This tribunal is urgently necessary to begin a
process of re-establishing truth and natural law to govern
world affairs. We are holding this tribunal in the
tradition and spirit of the civil rights movement and Dr.
Martin Luther King, in order to show, over the course of
two days, that it is not Lyndon LaRouche who is guilty,
who has been convicted in an unprecedented political
show-trial, but exactly those who have harassed him and
his organization and who are the ones behind the legal
attack. 
    You will see, that it is a combination of
Bolshevists, Communists, and liberal bankers in the West,
and--which to some of you may come as a surprise, for
others not--that actually Satanism as a political factor
in world politics is part of the problem we are dealing
with. 
    It is more than urgent to reverse what could be
called the <Zeitgeist,> the spirit of our times, because
it is this <Zeitgeist> that has thrown the world into an
apocalyptic crisis, and the entirety of human civilization
threatens to go under if these policies are not reversed.
Man cannot continuously violate the order of creation.
Behind this present misery in the world, is at best the
indifference of the leading institutions, and more often
the intent to cause this misery. 

        - The deliberate destruction of nations -
    If you just look at the world in totality today, you
find tremendous suffering, a tremendous amount of actual
killing of human beings. The most blatant situation is
without any question the condition of the developing
sector, where not long ahead into the future, the life and
very existence of 3 billion people is threatened. If you
look at the African continent, it is more than you can
take into your heart, more tears than you can possibly
cry. This continent is dying before the eyes of the world
public, and everybody--the governments, the parties, the
politicians, and the average citizen--knows that the
African continent is condemned to death and nobody does
anything about it. For me, this is one of the yardsticks
of the moral senility and moral decay of our world. There
are reports known to governments in Western Europe and the
United States--which we also know, and we know that they
know--that there is one country for sure in Africa, where
60% of all people are already infected with AIDS, and if
you take the doubling rate of eight months, and if you
take the increase in infection rate as the ratio
increases, you can actually say, that this country is as
good as dead right now! 
    Some people enjoy that. They look at it with great
pleasure and say, finally these inferior people are dying
out! 
    There are some areas, some regions in Africa, where
civilization has collapsed up to the point that villages
don't exist any longer, only gangs of men who, because
they are physically still in a position to do so, have
banded together and are looting whatever is left for food.
The entire continent is dominated by vicious hunger, where
babies only are born to die a couple of days or weeks
later from a disease which finds ever new multitudes, and
from a locust plague which was completely avoidable and
known to the international financial institutions and
world organizations and could have been stopped a long
time ago. 
    It's even worse than that! These financial
institutions have written off Africa! They have written
off most of the developing countries. They deliberately
use the food weapon; i.e., they have cut down world
agricultural production in order to be able to control
nations and peoples with this food weapon. They are fully
aware that, when the bankers made the decision during the
last year to cut off Africa entirely from credit, that
this was as good as condemning 450 million people on this
continent to death! 
    If you look at the IMF conditionalities, this is also
a case in which people fully know what the implication
would be; it would mean to reduce the number of people,
and you look at countries which are the worst, like
Bangladesh or certain parts of Brazil, and you see, as an
immediate consequence of financial policies, starvation
and death. 
    But this is only one area of the problem. Another one
is the spread of the international drug traffic and the
associated narco-terrorism, which is not only destroying
the minds and souls of our children and many other people,
but in countries like Colombia or Peru, where the drug
traffic and the terrorism is run both by the CIA and the
KGB, the strength of the drug-traffickers and the
guerrilla forces has already become so great that they are
threatening the authority of the government and the Army.
So, the condition that is prevailing is complete
lawlessness and the terror of the fittest. 

           - Communist system is collapsing -
    There is also tremendous suffering and hardship,
hopelessness and oppression in the Communist
dictatorships, where again most of these countries are hit
by savage food shortages. Maybe the worst hit country in
the Communist bloc is Romania, where the cruel fact is,
that babies are dying at such a rate, that they are only
registered as born eight weeks after their date of birth,
because it is not worth the paperwork for the Communists
to register them earlier. 
    The entire East bloc is at a point of social unrest
because of food shortages. Yugoslavia is facing a civil
war; people are hungry and this is fueling ethnic
conflicts. In Armenia, contrary to the illusions of the
fools in the West who jumped in a big hypocritical move to
help the victims of the earthquake, the Red Army has
shamelessly used this situation to conduct genocide
against the Armenians, like a collapsing empire, which is
trying to control their failing system. Look at the
ongoing genocide in Afghanistan, where also the world is
fully aware or could have been aware, and is looking at it
silently, and doesn't care. 
    The Communist system is collapsing, not today or
tomorrow, but it is an unraveling process in the entire
East bloc which is not going to stop; a similar, although
slightly different, process is occurring in mainland
China. They are showing all the signs and the symptoms of
a collapsing empire, very much like in the last phase of
the Roman Empire, trying to play off the minorities
against each other and using purges and other cruelties.
    The irony is that the West is absolutely not prepared
to use this. On the contrary: The Western elites are
willing to give world hegemony to Moscow, at a point that
nobody who really wants to see it, can overlook all
the signs that Moscow is trying to implement the Ogarkov Plan
and achieve military superiority very quickly. They are
developing a crash program for their version of the SDI.
They are developing new weapon systems based on modern
physical principles, radio-frequency weapons,
electromagnetic pulse weapons. They are training
<spetsnaz> troops so that they either can use this
military superiority directly, or use it as a blackmail
threat, to squeeze out of the West whatever they like. So
the West reacts to this by going for unilateral
disarmament, and the media, which are largely Communist
subverted, are using this, to spread a Gorby mania, so
that about 80% of the foolish people in the press like
Gorbachov and think he is really peace-loving. 
    The reason why the Western elites are behaving toward
this threat in this way, is because of a clear
philosophical affinity between the establishments in the
East and the West. 

        - Moral and economic crisis in the West -
    The world has come to this point because of a
gigantic moral crisis of the West. It is especially since
the last 20 years that this problem seems to have gotten
totally out of control. Now, there is a new President in
the United States. Tomorrow, there will be a new
administration, and they think they have the power, that
they are the keepers of the power, that they have the
means to solve all of this, but they are sitting in front
of the biggest financial crisis, and since they, up to the
present, have refused any of the reform proposals we have
proposed, this financial system is definitely finished.
The U.S. banking system is bankrupt, and the dollar and
the entire Western banking system have only been
maintained through the brutal looting of the Third World
countries and the support of Japan for the U.S. and the
Federal Republic of Germany, and so forth. So it will be
only a question of time, when the system comes down. 
    The Anglo-American establishment has made a deal with
Moscow to rule the world as a condominium, to have a kind
of supranational one world government, global crisis
management, and they think they can keep control. But
already now it is evident that what is at stake is a huge
fight with continental Europe over the question of
``Europe 1992,'' because the new American administration
does not intend to share its power with a new independent
force in Europe, and we will go into periods of trade war.
The fight over agriculture and the campaign against
Germany because of the Libyan [bchemical weapons]
affair which is now threatening the Kohl government,
basically shows on what thin ice the Western alliance is
right now. 
    This will escalate. If the Kohl government
falls--which could happen over the weekend, that is how
bad it is--it is absolutely to be expected, that the
Soviet Union would not miss the opportunity to offer a new
Stalin Note [offering German reunification], and even
with Kohl, under the domination of [Foreign Minister
Hans-Dietrich] Genscher or a new government dominated by
the Social Democrats, which would accept or could accept
such a Stalin Note. And if Germany goes, this would mean
that all of Western Europe goes. This is what the
Bolshevist empire has aimed at ever since Lenin declared:
Whoever controls Germany will have Europe, and that is the
stepping-stone to world hegemony. 
    So we are very far down in history. It is not only
Western Europe. Look at the situation in China and
Southeast Asia. Deng Xiaoping has declared that he has a
plan to regain Taiwan by no later than 1990, and basically
part of this New Yalta deal between the superpowers is to
give control over Southeast Asia to Peking. 
    So, if this would happen--and we are obviously
working to prevent it from happening--Moscow would gain
Western Europe and Peking China would gain Southeast Asia,
so that basically the United States would be reduced to a
relatively third-rate power and the Communists would have
world hegemony, as I said, maybe two years or less away. 
    Would this help the Communist system? 
I don't think it would. I think the Communist
system would continue to collapse, because it is the very
nature of this system to destroy the values of Western
civilization. It is their explicit aim to destroy the
values of Christianity, and with that, the idea of 
individual creativity. 

           - AIDS: the threat of a Dark Age -
    In no more than 10 years, the world for sure would
look like a nightmare, because it is already now
determined that the AIDS epidemic will explode, despite
all the cover-ups of the governments today, which, as I
said, know what is really at stake, and that this is a
killer disease that could potentially wipe out mankind as
a whole. This explosion will come very soon, and will have
tremendous social consequences; people will be killed
because they are suspected to be carriers of the disease,
which is already happening here and there right now.
We are also investigating hints, which I have to take very
seriously, that there are some institutions of the West
which are spreading AIDS deliberately in Africa, to
further the process of depopulation in this continent. 
    This all means clearly that the world is on the verge
of chaos and a Dark Age, which makes the 14th
century look relatively mild by comparison.
    How insane the present elites have become is
illustrated, among other things, by an article in the
<Economist> of this week, which seriously proposes to
rehabilitate certain historical figures and periods, like
the Dark Ages of the 14th century, and to glorify these
periods as being stronger and more beautiful than the
Renaissance. 
    So, if the world comes to this point, that we will
plunge into a Dark Age, either of the kind of one world
dictatorship that some elites are aiming at, or a world
under Communist hegemony, then you have to know one thing:
All of this is the result of a deliberate policy. It is
not a natural catastrophe; it is the result of concrete
political acts. It is what the Pope has called the
``structures of sin,'' which exist equally in the East and
in the West. That the world is in such a tremendous misery
is the result of the acts of concrete individuals. 

      - Our fight for a new world economic order -
    I want to tell you a couple of things about how it
comes that our organization has developed relatively great
knowledge about who is responsible. It is not some
academic discovery, but it is the result of the fact that
for 15 years, we have been fighting for a just new world
economic order. 
    Lyndon LaRouche has developed concrete proposals for
such economic reform, and when we, beginning relatively
naively and innocently, started to organize for the
implementation of these programs, we were hit with an
enormous amount of counterattack, and we found out that
there is an enormous amount of harassment against
countries--countries are being threatened with
extinction--against individuals threatened with death or
torture, or other unfortunate developments. Because we did
not give up in all of this fight, we learned a lot about
the nature of the enemy. We found out, for example,
something which may be a surprise to many people: that the
genocide lobby exists in the form of concrete associations
and people. 
    So when we, at the end of these two days, will put
these people in front of the tribunal, this is not
abstract or academic knowledge but it is the result of a
15-year political fight. For example, when Lyndon LaRouche
developed for the first time in 1974 the proposal to
develop Africa--infrastructure, industrialization of
agriculture, industrialization together with a report that
if these measures were not taken in a period of 10-15
years, the black African continent would reach a point of
irreversible ecological holocaust. We found out that
people already then said that Africa <should> die. We did
not know, and Lyn did not know obviously, what would be
the irreversible aspect, because we did not anticipate a
specific form of AIDS. But it was a correct analysis up to
that point. 
    Then the next major step in this development was that
Lyndon LaRouche in 1975 developed a concrete proposal for
international monetary reform, which he called at that
time the International Development Bank, which became
extremely influential in the discussions of the Non-Aligned
Movement and was introduced by the then-Foreign Minister
of Guyana, Fred Wills, in front of the General Assembly
of the United Nations in September 1976. 
    We saw what happened to those leaders of the Third
World who came out and fought for this. Pakistan's Bhutto
was killed in 1979 because he demanded an international
debt reorganization; Mrs. Gandhi, who was fighting for the
same thing, was killed in 1984; and many many other
governments were destabilized, leaders were purged,
harassed, put in prison. We know that the food weapon was
used many, many times, because most of these countries
have only food reserves for three days or one week, and we
know the names of the individuals from the banks who went
to these countries and said, if you do not quit the fight
for the new world economic order, you will be destabilized
and credits will be cut off. Riots will be the result in
your country, and you will be toppled. 
    We have watched what the IMF conditionalities have
done in these 15 years. Entire countries have been
dismantled in front of the eyes of the world public. For
example the beautiful nation of Mexico, which was
economically struggling 10-15 years ago, was literally
taken apart step by step, with absolute brutality. The
nation of Uganda practically no longer exists. If you look
at Lebanon, since 1975, this nation has been completely
bombed out, destroyed. It does not exist any more. 

                 - The genocide lobby -
    We have found out, step by step, who is behind this.
The Club of Rome, at a certain point in 1972, started to
propagandize their zero economic growth policy of
neo-malthusianism, that the world does not have enough
food for the number of people. We came upon such
institutions as the Worldwatch Institute, which is
supervising a lot of this. We found individuals like the
Satanist Robert McNamara, who has a long list of crimes.
He was responsible in Vietnam for the body-count policy.
He's a lunatic, quite literally, because he goes out when
there is a full Moon, to bathe in the moonbeams. This is
part of his belief-structure. But the other side is the
genocide he committed when he was head of the World Bank.
We have heard circles around Gen. Maxwell Taylor, also of
Vietnam fame, who said quite openly that they want to
increase the death rate by natural means, because birth
control is not sufficient. We have found circles around
George Ball, who have openly said that it is necessary to
reduce the Mexican population to 30 million people, i.e.,
less than half. We heard the speech of Gore Vidal in
S;atao Paulo last year, who said that the AIDS pandemic is
a good thing, because it will reduce the population to 1
billion people. 
    And we have seen, what was the long-term design of
people like Dr. Alexander King, who was the one
responsible in 1963 for introducing the so-called
education reform in Europe, which had the deliberate aim
of eliminating for pupils any knowledge of the high points
of the 2,000 years of European culture and civilization.
This same Dr. Alexander King was the leader of the Club of
Rome, and is on record having said that population growth
in the Third World has to stop, because the Anglo-Saxon
white race is overrun by the black, brown, and yellow
people. 
    We are on the track of the Inter-Action Council, which wants
to reduce the population to 2 billion, because otherwise
the global crisis is not feasible. 
    In the course of this, we founded the Club of Life,
against the evil activities of the Club of Rome, and as a
result of our organizing for the sanctity and sacredness
of life, we found out even more about these people. We
discovered an incredible new euthanasia campaign, and
propaganda that health care would not be cost-effective.
So we found out about many more concrete persons, and also
about the nature of the enemy. We found out how the
financial institutions of this world are responsible, and
how they are controlled by certain families, and that the
reason for all of these problems is what you could call a
plutocracy, a government of a financial power elite. This
is an extreme Calvinist view, of those who think that God
punishes those who are poor, and that those who are rich
are already proven to be correct by the very fact of their
wealth. 

       - The Holy Alliance and the Yalta policy -
    Soon we found out that what motivates these
people is, in part, the political system modeled on the
Holy Alliance concluded at the Congress of Vienna of 1815,
where the idea of having Russia as a special policeman of
Europe was copied from. We found that the proponents of
this system liked the idea of balance of power, crisis
management, that they are against the sovereignty of the
nation-state, and that they want to reintroduce a
so-called <St;auandestaat,> a class system, with lower and
higher classes, were the lower ones have no rights--i.e.,
you go back before the Prussian reforms. 
    In the 20th century, there is a continuity of this in
the form of the Yalta treason, which also has to be looked
at as one of the great crimes of our time. In 1943, there
was the division of Europe, without real need. There was
no necessity to give half of Europe to the Russians, to
the Communists. This, as you know, was already decided in
1943, and the process of Teheran, Yalta, and Potsdam just
concluded this agreement. This Yalta treason was continued
in 1943 by the freemason George Marshall, who gave China
to Mao Zedong, at a point that the Kuomintang had 5
million people under arms. It was the joint action of
Moscow and Washington to give mainland China to the
Communists. In 1953, during the Korean War, Chiang
Kai-shek had offered to send hundreds of thousands of
troops to help MacArthur, and the Korean War would have
ended quite differently. But this was not in the idea of
the balance of power again, so that MacArthur afterward
went to Taipei to apologize. 
    This Yalta policy was continued in 1971, when it was
Kissinger who introduced the ``China card'' policy, and at
the same time there was continuous treason against the
security of the West, in the form of the Pugwash
Conference, the ecology movement, all aimed to undermine
the security of the West as an independent culture, a
civilization. The peace movement was invented, which has
turned out to be nothing but Moscow's fifth column, and if
you look at it today, it is run literally by witches, and
is the harbor and the water in which terrorists can swim. 

          - Satanism and Friedrich Nietzsche -
    In all of this, the role of Satanism is not marginal,
but, as recent discoveries have shown, the ecology
movement is a Satanic movement. The condition of the
world, all the misery and all the incredible suffering,
could not be explained otherwise, and the major threat to
civilization today is nothing but Satanism, which is not
called Satanism openly, even though this is becoming more
and more public now, but it is generally called the New
Age. 
    I think the key to understanding the threat to
mankind today, in the form of Satanism and New Age, it is
extremely important to understand both Nietzsche and
Aleister Crowley. Nietzsche, who was working for the Devil
in the last century definitely, represents a new phase in
this, because since his writings, the open, perverted
advertisement of Satanism has become a phase shift in
history. 
    The most important points he made are the following.
He declared that God is dead, and later he developed out
of this, that he himself would be the Anti-Christ and he
would be Satan. His aim was to wipe out Christianity and
all values associated with it. He, because God is dead,
declared that man is not the image of God, but man has to
be an aesthetic beast. He continued to rewrite history in
emphasizing, not the classical highpoints of history, the
classical Greek or the Renaissance, but rather Dionysian
ecstasy, Bacchanalian masses walking, marching drunken
through the streets, doped up. He emphasized the
flagellants in the Middle Ages, and in his ugly book <Ecce
Homo,> he declared: Am I understood? It is Dionysos
against the crucified. 
    He devoted his entire life against Christianity and
determined that he wanted to revalue all values into their
opposite. This is indeed the essence of the Satanic
method: to consciously change values into their opposite
in such a way, that people don't realize it in the
beginning, but in the end they are in the grip of Satan. 
    He did not accept the development of the universe to
ever higher orders, but announced a cyclical repetition,
the eternal return of the same, and therefore destruction
for him--as well as for the Greenies today or for the
Nazis, which is actually the same thing--destruction is
desirable, because only out of the decay, the strong will
come, in the opinion of these people, and the natural
outgrowth of this is the idea of the master race. The will
to power is the only value for these people. 
    Historically, Nietzsche refers to
Dionysius--Bacchus--who was, at a point of Greek history,
the cult figure for a cult which centered around wild
music, rythmic dancing and orgiastic ecstasy. 
    This is all very important, if you compare it with
the New Age today. 
    The aim of this insane ecstasy is the unification
with their god, to be possessed, literally. The essence of
what is unifying them is their hatred against
Christianity, because they see it as a total negation of
all earthly pleasures and passions. And we found out that
one of the reasons why they hated us so much, is because
they always say, you want to take away our pleasures in
this way, because you put up moral standards, and we don't
like that. 
    So, both Nietzsche and the freemasons--which is
actually one tradition--refer to Greece as a deliberate
counterpole against Christianity, and it is also this
Dionysian face of Greek history which gave them the
arguments for the ``master race.'' For example, Theognis
of Megara already had the idea that the aristocratic is
good and the plebian is bad. If you read Plato's
dialogues, you find with the <Meno,> that Thrasymachos and
Callicles emphasize the exercise of power as the essence of
all virtues. Thrasymachos says that powerful evil is more
noble than weak goodness, and Cllicles says the stronger
ones have the right to dominate and also have property,
and the weak ones have none. Dionysius said, what is the
essence for him is rageful lust, which is at the same time
the fury of destruction. Indeed you will find, that rage
is the emotion of Satan, in the same way that <agap`e,
caritas,> or love is the emotion of Christianity. 
    The concept of the eternal return of the same, which
is a pre-Christian cult notion, associated with the earth
goddesses, mother goddesses, is also the ground for the
idea of reincarnation, the concept used
deliberately against the idea of immortality. The
Nietzschean fascists, the New Age proponents, believe that
immortality or the belief in immortality is the basic
obstacle to real life. Nietzsche finally wrote <Thus,
Spake Zarathustra,> where he declared that all gods are dead,
now lives the superman, <der ;auUbermensch.> Superman is
the meaning of the world--no god, rather master your own
fate, rather be god yourself. So, the idea of Satanism is
nothing but self-deification, and for these people,
Christian ennoblement is only castration. 
    For Nietzsche, God is proven wrong, but not the
Devil. In <Will to Power,> he writes, to be able to bear
life without God and morality, he must find the opposite,
the ego which creates its own god, at whose feet all men
lie. This god is nothing but the culmination of power, the
liberation of all morality, the full depths of all
contradictions of life lived out to the excess. God for
him is the greatest immoralist, as will to power without
goodness and wisdom. So, Nietzsche believed in superiority
of the Devil; quite literally, he was a Satanist. He
believed in the Olympus, i.e., the power of man totally
dedicated to this Earth, but not in the Crucified. So,
Dionysius, whom Nietzsche believed to be finally he
himself, is the god of darkness, and Zarathustra admits
that the good ones would call his superman the Devil. 
    So what we are really dealing with, is the Satanic
religion, in their hatred for Christianity, for those
reasons. All of this, the Nietzschean philosophy, was the
ethic of the inner core of the SS and the Nazis, and it is
exactly the problem today, that the elites think they want
power only for power's sake, and it is their absolute
right to keep that power, no matter what will happen to
this poor world. It is no question that these people are
under the influence of gigantic illusions, and it is also
clear that they are either part of Satanist rituals and
circles, or at least they tolerate it. 

                 - The Age of Aquarius -
    We have noticed, that for the past one or two years,
the so-called New Age has been on an aggressive offensive
worldwide, and if you look at the symptoms, you can
actually see that it is an attempt to win over the world
for good, and to wipe out Christianity once and for all.
Normally people are not accustomed to look at it this way,
but if you start to sharpen your eyes, you actually see
symptoms of it at every point. For example, you all know
that there are hardly any young people who are not victims
of rock music, and all major rock bands are Satanist. Not
only do they have Satanist texts, not only do they have
subliminal messages and light-effects with pictures of
Satan or symbols, but it is having a serious effect on the
brains and the capability to think of these young people. 
    One can say that rock music is the first level of
initiation, and that then drugs, pornography, and general
disruption of any moral standard are the next steps. So,
if you go through this and you don't watch it, what comes
out are people without souls, and it is most horrifying to
see that aleady in all of Western Europe, 80-85% of all
young people have participated in occult exercises, which
starts like a game, but then soon it is not a game any
more. There are many Satanic churches, not only in Turin,
where 5% of the people admit that they are Satanists. It
is the famous Ordo Templi Orientis which is definitely
one of the leading instruments. It is a lot of masonic
rites, it is the spread of pedophilia, child-pornography
rings, video cassettes of unimaginable perversion, and
finally the more frequently occurring ritual murders. 
    While Nietzsche definitively is the philosopher for
the power elites, Aleister Crowley is the one who gives
the philosophy for the duped masses. Do what you want,
this is the only law: that was the philosophy of Aleister
Crowley, and this is the poison in the hearts and minds of
the people thinking they can take drugs, they can do
anything just as they please. 
    One has to see that the Age of Aquarius, the New Age,
as it was propagandized by Marilyn Ferguson, is actually
the new form of this disease. The aim is to eliminate any
principle, there is no longer any criterion for good and
evil. And one has to understand that the New Age has a lot
of different elements, like homosexuality, which is an
organized cult. Nobody can tell me that 50% of the people
in Manhattan all had domineering mothers who give them no
other way than to join this. It is an organizing tool: Get
people involved, and once they are involved, they can't
get out so easily. It is witchcraft, the ecology movement,
the idea that some mysterious earth goddess exists. It is
drugs, it is astrology, it is pantheism; basically all of
the components of the New Age represent an attack on
rationality, on reason, on natural science, on the idea of
the knowability of the laws of the universe. 
    So, we have found that one of the key coordinating
centers of all of this is a thing called the Lucis Trust,
formerly the Lucifer organization, which is a kind of
umbrella sponsoring all of these different things.
Associated with this are the United Nations, the World
Council of Churches, the Club of Rome, the Trilateral
Commission, the Rockefeller Foundation, the World Wildlife
Fund, and many more. 
    If you look at this, the big question obviously is,
how to reverse it? It is obviously a subject which is not
an easy one, and many people say it is dangerous even to
talk about it, but if we do not warn our young people, the
next generation and the many moral people who are just
indifferent, who don't care, we'll eventually be taken
over. 
    So therefore, the first step is to make a huge
campaign to expose what is really behind the New Age, and
we will name the names of those who have put themselves in
the service of Satan, and we will put on their forehead
the Mark of the Beast, because it is our obligation to
fight for the superiority of man in the image of God. We
do this, because we have the confidence that mankind has
the resources to overcome this crisis, as mankind came out
of the 14th-century Dark Age and superseded it with the
golden Renaissance. Today, by awakening people and making
them conscious of this danger, we will also be able to
make a new cultural and moral Renaissance, and we want to
announce it optimistically, but also offensively at the
same time, that no matter what the enemy is planning, we
will make sure, that one way or the other, the ideas and
programs of Lyndon LaRouche will be realized. 
    We want to announce this campaign, for which Lyn has
correctly given the slogan some time ago: to do nothing
less than to kill Satan. 
    I want to end my remarks by saying, so help us God
through our arm, and I am confident that Christ will be
victorious over Satan! 

COM           lp¹i (Ì  