from the aug 1990  vol 5, #4 of P.A.N. Pipes, the newsletter of the
                                Pagan Arizona Network--page 7.


                    The Coven of the Black Rose


The Coven of the Black Rose is a training coven of the Order of
Is, and was formed by Tzaddi-Cire-Lucifuge, its High Priest and
holder of the Third Degree. First and foremost, we practice a
philosophy and way of life that looks as the "flesh", carnality
and rational self-interest as objects of celebration. Thus,the
Order of Is advocates the "worship of life" and, as such, is
concerned with the fullest gratification of the ego on this
plane of existence.

Our Coven follows an initiatory system, and works primarily
skyclad. We believe in the "Life Force"--we call this the
Macrocosm, the universal creative force. We also believe that
(wo)men are the very epitome of the "Life Force", gods or
goddesses in their own right. We do not accept the "Life Force,"
which we personify as Set, as an anthropomorphic being. To us,
Set is a force of nature, embodying powers that some religions
have considered "dark" because of their inability to use or
assimilate those powers.

Set manifests as an androgynous force containing the dichotomy
of the tantric Lunar feminine and Solar masculine energies.
Consequently, we place equal emphasis on both the God and
Goddess. Leadership of the Coven is a shared equilibrium between
the High Priest and High Priestess. We meet weekly for Esbat and
Coven training, and celebrate nine sabbats: the eight sabbats of
the Wiccan wheel, and the birthdays of each covener.

As a training coven, we are always looking for like-minded
people to join our ranks. Our primary premise is to seek
evolution and equilibrium (growth and balance). Any
correspondence or inquiries should be addressed to:

		Coven of the Black Rose
		P.O. Box 3492
		Apache Junction, AZ  85278-3492



end



(notes---)

This is as I found it in the P.A.N Pipes, which I am co-editor
of, tho' I have not been in AZ for the last 3 months and my
co-editor has been talked into giving these people space.  The
High Priest is mundanely known as Rodney Burnap. Mr. Burnap's
career is traceable through "The Omega" newsletter, published
here in Phoenix, by the Order of Omega.  Said career starts
about 7-8 years ago, with Burnap proclaiming himself to be a
satanist, but w/o the violence part. This continued through a
series of articles and letters to the editor, whining about the
pagan community not accepting him and his beliefs.  About 18
months ago, he proclaimed to the electronic media (and yes it
was on the 6 pm news) that he had 'found Christ' and was going
to be a clown for jesus (wearing clown make-up and passing the
message to kids being the supposed approach).  Just prior to
this born again phase, he founded the Order of Is.  In the last
6-9 months it has re-appeared with this Coven of the Black Rose
as it's outward body.

At a meeting, to which I could not go as I was in San Diego,
"Tom Bow" as he now calls himself, presented this washed and
cleaned image as what they were doing. Evidently, the pagans and
crafters present, either where not around during the previous
stages, or they seemed to have forgotten the previous escapades.
The meeting ended with the Network agreeing to publish this
piece (see above).

My concern is that when (and I mean when not IF) this mess comes
crashing down, the pagan community in AZ is going to be left
with no creditability, we will lose the contacts with the Phx PD
that we have so arduously built up, and will have to start from
scratch. Part 2 of the problem is that Ken and Gail of Danu
Coven, present themselves as part of the Covenant of the
Goddess. They have supported (seemingly) the effort by these
Setians to legitimize their belief that they are NOT simply a
christian sub-sect, but a pagan/wiccan belief mode. I'm sorry
but changing the 'god' name from satan to set, because set is an
egyptian pantheon, thus pre-christian, does NOT, in my mind,
legitimize all this. Is there any way that we can get either
myself and/or someone else in contact with COG in order to have
other representation besides Ken and Gail???  This beautiful
Desert deserves some attempt at reCOGnition.


Enough said. I remain, in service to the Lady and Her Consort,
Kay Clay
