Date: 3:06 am  Sat Jun 5, 1993         Number : 12 of 17
From: Glenda Stocks                    Base   : PODSNet Metaphysical
To  : All Pod-Metaphysical             Refer #: None
Subj: Who is Ashtar?        [A]        Replies: None
Stat: Sent                             Origin : 02 Jun 93  09:54:20

GS> Here is some info on Ashtar, since I am posting channellins from them
Ashtar Command Overview.
The Ashtar Command is a group of allied intelligences committed
to serving to Light through the focus of guardianship. These
intelligences formed an alliance eons ago with the singular purpose of
protecting, guiding and overseeing the pattern of evolution upon the
lower worlds. Earth, being one of these worlds, also happens to fall
under the jurisdiction of a certain quadrant sector in this universe
thus assigning it to the protective umbrella of the Ashtar Command.

The beings who comprise this Command are Etheric in nature. That
means they have refined Light bodies which vibrate upon a highly
dimensional frequency, and are invisible to the normal person's
sight. To those with clairvoyant vision, they have sometimes appeared
as a form of light or having a somewhat translucent quality. However,
in their own dimensional reality they would appear quite solid. They
travel in ships of Light which would not qualify as the more material
types often sighted in the skies.

GS> If you have seen the postings on the Astral World, you will better
GS> understand the above description of those in the Command.

The ships, if you could see them, would appear also as
translucent light. These ships are formed, or brought into creation,
by the mutual thought forms of those wishing to employ such energies.
They are constructed of pure light energy and can formulate themselves
at the discretion of the thoughts directing them. More simply stated,
the ships can take any shape that they are directed to take. They move
through the time/space continuum by a process of riding the currents of
various grid structures existing within each planet's atmosphere. When
outside atmospheric conditions, they can travel at the speed of thought,
rather than light, which is to say where you think yourself to be, you
are.

GS> Given some thought, you might say that if one did see a ship from
GS> Ashtar Command, they would have created the sighting for the human's
GS> benefit.

To truly explain these beings is somewhat beyond our earth
brain's comprehension. They are an intelligent force, rather than
individualized beings, although they can take individual form if
required. They have immense power which they utilize only for the
upliftment of all beings, and they can literally be in many places at
once through their ability to project consciousness through higher
mind functions. Trying to describe them in their true reality is
rather like trying to explain Einstein's theory to scientists. They
can grasp the concept, but have not the skill to manifest it.

The connections circuitry is missing. Much like when you're
trying to get your computer to perform an advanced function for which
it is not yet programmed. However, we offer explanations as best we
can in our limited understanding of what higher mind functions can
really do.

What is their purpose with Earth at this time? Well, certainly
everyone reading this publication is aware that Earth is undergoing
her next evolutionary step towards becoming a planet of love, her
true birthright. Since Earth is the last planet in this particular
solar system to attain a higher vibrational frequency, she is
receiving much attention and assistance. Because of her role in the
Divine Plan and the evolutionary cycle of universal transcension,
every plan is being implemented which would make this hyper-jump as
rapidly as possible. Many Beings of Light were asked to come back
(incarnate) to Earth and assist her. Many beings of the highest
spiritual attainment were asked to leave their realms of light in
order to descend through matter and once again take on the flesh form
in order to anchor their frequency upon this planet. The Ashtar
Command, you might say, acted as a departure point, a way station, for
many of these beings. A place to adjust their frequencies in order to
survive upon a material plane such as Earth. One does not descend
from being a light beam to a matter form without some adjustment along
the way!

GS> This helps to explain the presence of 'Star People' on Earth, and
GS> especially the fact that they are 'waking up' to who they are.

Also, within the rankings of the Ashtar Command there are many
Ascended Masters who have chosen this form of service as their
dedication to the Creator. Some of these beings have also projected a
portion of their light to this planet and taken up residency. Even
Ashtar, himself, asked to project a portion of his consciousness to a
physical expression and is embodied at this time. This does not mean
that he is not also still holding a frequency in the etheric planes.
Remember, these beings are a FORCE, and as such, have many
capabilities beyond what we can imagine.

There are also present many Light workers from other spatial
dimensions and planets which are not a part of the Ashtar Command, but
are working in conjunction with the Command. There are many other
spatial commands and authorities, but Ashtar and that focus, has
responsibility for this planetary sphere and universe. He is the
supreme commander, or the head guy in our vernacular. This does not
mean he wishes to be revered or placed on a pedestal. In fact, none
of the space beings wish that. They would prefer much more to be
thought of as Elder brothers and sisters who simply wish to assist the
people of this planet learn to live in peace and harmony. They have

[Continues in next message...]

--- All Is One
 * Origin: XBN BBS - Snet HeadQuarters - Freq SEARCH - PodNet (93:9609/20)

Date: 3:06 am  Sat Jun 5, 1993         Number : 13 of 17
From: Glenda Stocks                    Base   : PODSNet Metaphysical
To  : All Pod-Metaphysical             Refer #: None
Subj: Who is Ashtar?        [B]        Replies: None
Stat: Sent                             Origin : 02 Jun 93  09:54:21

no other motive than this.


Some people have reported through the media and other methods,
quite negative experiences resulting from extraterrestrial abductions,
etc. Please understand that these events have nothing whatsoever to
do with those of the Ashtar Command. That is another story and quite
a complex one, and certainly not within the scope of this article.
Rest assured that those from the Ashtar Command are only here to help,
for they can do nothing else. Understand that for one to attain
etheric embodiment, they must have become fully balanced in their
male/female polarities. You may also think of the etheric plane as the
"Christ" plane. They are not perfect, but they have attained a far
greater degree of wisdom than most. Wisdom that is given to us to
draw upon at this most crucial time in Earth's history.

The next time you are standing under a starlit sky, send an
attitude of gratefulness to these beings who have served this planet
from its inception. These are the Biblical Angels, the Watchers and
the Guardians. If you see a star twinkling back at you, who knows, it
just might be the eye of an Angel "winking," letting you know that
someone's out there.
------------------------------

April and Steven White are Metaphysicians and Ambassadors of the
Ashtar Command, on temporary assignment to Planet Earth. To make
contact, write to:

  "WhiteLights International"
  4410 West Union Hills Drive
  Suite 7-137
  Glendale, AZ 85308.

*** End Text ***

Given as a overveiw of the Ashtar Command.
Found om my local BBS.
Scott Hall.


--- All Is One
 þ RM 1.0 00257 þ California Raisins Murdered: Cereal Killer Suspected
 * Origin: XBN BBS - Snet HeadQuarters - Freq SEARCH - PodNet (93:9609/20)

