All information copywrite: Canadian Society for Herbal Research

Herb-walk Bestview Park, Toronto, Ontario

Listed below are some of the herb plants that can be found in
this park. If you have any difficulties with the terminology a
good herb book will help.   

Recommended Book List   

There are many thousands of herb books available all covering and 
emphasising slightly different aspects of herbalism. Some are
very good indeed and some, to be frank, are not so good. Those
listed below would be   considered the essential minimum required
of a professional herbalist. All of these books are highly
recommended and can be purchased with confidence. If you wish
they can be obtained for you through the Society.  

1) A Modern Herbal. Mrs. M. Greive,  
2) School of Natural Healing. Dr. J.R. Christopher. 
3) An Holistic Herbal. David Hoffman.  
4) Potters Cyclopedia of Medicinal Herbs.  

These books cover the traditional and modern uses of medicinal
plants. All of the herbs listed below will be found in these
books.  
 


BURDOCK (Arctium lappa)  
Burdock enjoys great popularity as an alterative. It also
possesses mild diaphoretic and diuretic qualities. It is one of
the finest "blood purifiers" in botanic practice. Used to treat
dry scaly skin eruptions and recurrent boils and sties. It is
also especially suitable in psoriasis, stubborn scaly eczema,
obstinate and painful skin ulcers and in catarrhal conditions. 
The seeds possess greater diuretic properties than the root. 
It is used externally as an ointment in skin diseases with
exceptionally good results. A decoction of the root has been used
with good effect in rheumatic and gouty disorders. It assists in
the elimination of waste material combined with a mild tonic
effect. 

Average Dose: Fluid extract root 2 - 8 mils  



RED CLOVER (Trifolium pratense)  
A well-known alterative and antispasmodic, Red Clover has
beneficial properties active in the treatment of skin diseases
and malignant growths. It is not suggested that Trifolium will
cure cancer, but it undoubtedly favourably influences a system
under the strain of malignancy.

It has a good reputation in the treatment of spasmodic and
bronchial coughs. It is generally combined with other remedies
when its alterative powers are to be brought into play.
Externally it is a excellent remedy for ulcers and burns. It has
been used externally as a dressing for malignant ulceration. It
possesses a peculiar soothing and healing property and promotes
healthy granulation. The leaves and flowers of Red Clover are
prepared into an ointment for external use. 

Average Dose: Fluid Extract 2 - 8 ml.  



VIOLET - (Viola odorata)  

Anti-inflammatory, stimulating e<M>expectorant and diuretic. Also
good for congestive lung consumption problems. Use as a mouth
wash and gargle for infections of the mouthh and throat. Used in
cancer treatment, especially of the breast, lungs and alimentary
canal. Excellent for lymphatic problems. Lumps in the breast.
Useful in headaches drank as a tea and applied to the head as a
compress. Also as a poultice or compress for tumours, swollen
breasts. 

Violet syrup is excellent for throat problems. Good in colds with
fever, (has a cooling affect). For whooping cough in children and
shortness of breath. The root is used to dissolve mucus in severe
cough. For children's cough take 2 to 3 teaspoonfuls every 2 to 3
hours.. For chest problems 3 to 5 tablespoons every 2 to 3 hours.



CRAMP BARK (Viburnum Opulus)  

As its name implies this is a very effective remedy in cases of
cramp, convulsions and spasms of all kinds. It is also nervine in
action and will relieve irregular spasmodic pains in the womb and
ovaries.  

Dose: Fluid extract 2 - 5 ml.  




TANSY (Tanacetum vulgare)  

Again this herb is largely used for expelling worms in children.
The infusion of 30 grams to 500 mils. of boiling water should be
administered in teacupful doses night and morning during a short
fast. This herb is also a tonic and emmenagogue and is a valuable
remedy in female disorders, hysteria and nausea. 

Dose: Fluid Extract 2 - 10 ml. 




OAK (Quercus rubor)  

Oak is slightly tonic, strongly astringent and antiseptic. It is
useful in chronic diarrhoea and dysentery, either alone or in
conjunction with aromatics. A decoction is useful for sore
throats and relaxed throats. 

Average Dose: Fluid Extract 3 - 5 ml. 




PINUS BARK (Pinus canadensis)  

This remedy is astringent and tonic. The bark forms an ingredient
in Composition Powder. 

Average Dose: Fluid Extract 3 - 5 ml.  




MANDRAKE American (Podophyllum peltatum)   

Anti-bilious, cathartic, hydragogue and purgative. It is a most
powerful medicine and exercises an influence on every part of the
system, stimulating the glands to a healthy action. It must be
used in small doses as large doses cause violent evacuations and
debility. If there is enlargement of the liver with soreness and
pain, it is a sure remedy. It can be given in jaundice with good
results. In fact it is invaluable in all chronic scrofulous,
dyspeptic and liver diseases. 

Average dose: Fluid extract 1/2 - 1.5 ml.    




COLTSFOOT (Tussilago farfara)  

Demulcent and expectorant, and is a popular cough remedy although
is usually combined with other agents such as Horehound or
Marshmallow. The leaves are often smoked as a relief against
asthma, bronchitis and catarrh. (Not recommended!). 

Average dose: Fluid extract 2 - 5 ml.    




CATNIP (Nepeta Cataria)  

Relaxant, carminative, digestive stimulant, tonic, diaphoretic,
anti-spasmodic. Reduces mucous congestion of upper respiratory
passages. Used in feverish colds and coughs. Also stomach pains
and flatulence. Excellent for nervous and tension headaches.
Useful as an infusion to ensure a good nights sleep. A superb
children's nervine and sedative. Taken in enema for eruptive
diseases, i.e. Chicken pox, measles, etc. Give this to teething
and colicky babies. 

Dose: Infusion - One cup standard infusion when required. 




LINDEN (Tilia europa, Tilia cordata)  

Diaphoretic, diuretic, nervine, stimulant tonic. Anti- plethoric,
(cleans and makes the blood more fluid so is excellent as a
preventative for arteria-sclerosis, phlebitis, angina and heart
attacks). Good for chronic insomnia, anxiety, restless children
and sleeping problems, (particularly in the elderly). Promotes
perspiration in fever also eliminating mucus from kidneys,
bladder, lungs and stomach. Used in nervous conditions and
disorders following colds. Excellent when used as a poultice for
minor eye problems. 

Dose: Infusion - One cup standard infusion when required.   




YARROW (Achillea millefolium)  

Diaphoretic, stimulant and tonic. It is extremely useful in colds
and acute catarrh of the respiratory tract generally. It opens
the pores freely and purifies the blood. Combined with Elder
flowers and Peppermint it forms Composition powder, a speedy cure
for influenza and feverish colds. 

Average dose: Fluid extract 1 - 5 ml.   




COUCHGRASS (Agropyron ropens)  

This herb is diuretic, demulcent and aperient. It is very useful
in the many conditions of cystitis, nephritis and other urinary
affections. It was used successfully in Victorian times for gout
and is of help in various forms of rheumatism. In cases
accompanied by feverishness and infusion of the dried or fresh
herb (30 grams to 500 mils) may be taken in wine-glassful doses
frequently. 

Dose: fluid extract 3-5 mils. 




WILD CARROT (Daucus carota)  

Diuretic, deobstruent and stimulant this herb is to be found in
many herbal formulae generally.

Dose: fluid extract 3-5 mils.




BLUE COHOSH (Caulophyllum thalictroides)  

This is an emmenagogue with diuretic, antispasmodic and vermifuge 
properties. It again has proved very useful in female complaints
and in rheumatism especially in combination with other remedies.
Be especially careful with this remedy. Use with care. 

Dose: Fluid extract 10-30 drops.  




ELECAMPANE (Inula helenium)  

In addition to being an expectorant this remedy is also
diaphoretic and diuretic. It is used principally with other
remedies for coughs and pulmonary disorders. It also has mild
tonic properties. 

Dose: Fluid extract 5 mils.  




BLOOD ROOT (Sanguinaria canadensis)  

Is also a tonic and stimulant. It is of great value in chest
diseases, bleeding from the lungs pneumonia and chronic
bronchitis. In whooping cough and croup it should be given until
vomiting results. The powdered root may be used as snuff in
catarrh and polypus of the nose. As an external remedy the
powdered root or the application of the tincture acts well in
cases of ringworm and other skin affections. Too large a dose
should be avoided as this can produce a narcotic effect. 

Dose: Fluid extract 10-20 drops. Tincture 2-8 mils.  




POPLAR (Populus tremuloides)  

Another stimulant which is also tonic and diuretic. As a
universal tonic it is deservedly popular. It takes the place of
Peruvian bark and quinine and has none of the drawbacks which
interfere with the continued use of the latter. It can be very
useful in cases of debility, indigestion, faintness and hysteria
etc. and may also be given in urinary complaints. 

Dose: Fluid extract 5 ml.  




HAWTHORN (Cratoegus oxycantha)

One of our well known cardiac tonics this remedy has a well
deserved reputation as a remedy for use in many organic and
functional heart disorders. Complaints such as sysponoea, rapid
and feeble heart action, hypertrophy and valvular insufficiency
will all benefit from hawthorn. Wherever there is slow
circulation with `pins and needles', numbness etc. this is the
remedy. 

Dose: Fluid extract 10-15 drops. 




STINGING NETTLE, Urtica Dioca - Mars.  

Astringent, diuretic, haemostatic, tonic. According to Culpepper
this herb can be found even in the dark by feeling around! If
stung by nettle look for dock leaves that usually grow nearby.
Crush the leaf and rub into the rash. 

At one time people used to thrash themselves with nettles or roll
in a bed of nettles. This stimulated the entire system, cleansing 
the blood and eliminating waste through the skin. These methods
or applications were thought to eliminate poisons and prevent and
cure rheumatism, typhoid fever, apoplectic fits and also to act
as an emmenagogue. In mythology Nettles were sacred to the god
Thor (War-Man) and were put on the fire during thunderstorms to
keep homes safe from being destroyed by Thor's lightning.

Only young nettle tops are used in medicine. The older stalks
were used to make cloth which was considered more durable than
other linen. This cloth was used to make army uniforms up to
World War 1. It was also used for ropes, sacking, sailcloth and
fishing nets, even for making paper. The German word for muslin
is *Nessel-Tuch* or nettle cloth.

A course or treatment for 6 weeks of fresh nettle tops is an
excellent Spring cleansing. The tops can be eaten in a soup or
cooked like spinach. Nettles are very rich in iron and magnesium.
Blood building, nettles clear mucus from the lungs and throat,
cleanse the blood, improve circulation, stimulate pancreas
secretion and secretion of the digestive glands of the stomach,
intestines, liver and gallbladder. Also nettles help lower blood
sugar and are used for ulcers in the intestines.  

They eliminate uric acid, so because of their diuretic qualities
they are useful for rheumatism, gout and kidney stones. Mixed
with Yarrow they ease backache in women caused by ovary problems.
Good in foot-baths for vascular constrictions.
Nettles also stop diarrhoea, for nose bleed, spitting of blood
and haemorrhage of all kinds. Also useful for colds in the head.
Helps regulate menstruation and in nursing increases milk flow.

Externally it is used for sciatica, skin problems such as eczema, 
and rheumatic pain. Use as a gargle for sore or inflamed mouth or 
throat. Can be useful for skin rashes and allergies. Fresh
crushed leaves put into nostrils can dissolve polyps. For
haemorrhoids cover young nettle tops with water and boil 20-30
minutes sweeten with honey. Excellent as a hair rinse for hair
loss etc. One handful of young nettles simmered in one litre
water for 2 hours. Strain and bottle. 

Try Nettle mixed with Centuary one cup one hour before dinner.  



HOW TO MAKE AN OINTMENT  

Method 1) - pack cut herb into an enamel pot and cover with
vegetable oil. Simmer for about two hours at 100-180F, (with the
pot covered).

The liquid will absorb the colour of the herb. You must
constantly stir the mixture. The mixture is done when the herb is
crispy in texture. Do not overdo this because you can burn the
oil and the ointment when finished will retain the burnt scent.

Strain the oil when cool to remove the bits and pieces. Put the
oil back in the pot and heat up the oil again to melt the
beeswax. Add beeswax, approximately 1 cubic inch for 1 cup oil.
Another way to test if you added enough wax is to sample a few
drops of oil with the melted beeswax on a spoon, dip the spoon in
cold water and check the firmness with your fingers. Pour into
sterilized jars. 

*Remember every utensil you use must be sterilized.

Method 2) - Use 1 part herb to 4 parts oil. Let oil saturate the
powdered herb for 3-7 days by a source of heat (sunlight). When
ready, put this mixture on the stove at medium to low
temperature.

Finish as with method 1. 
