 What is Shamanism?  Where did it come from?

 The word shaman is from the Tungus; saman.  Meaning a  Priest
 of Shamanism; A Magician.  (Webster)

 From "Occidental Mythology" by Joseph Campbell

 "The  myths  and rites of the roving tribesmen of  the  Great
 Hunt,  for whom the animals, large and small, of the  rolling
 plains  manifestation of the powers and mysteries of  nature,
 were  based  largely  on the idea that  between  mankind  and
 beasts  a  covenant  existed.  The food  animals  gave  their
 bodies  willingly  to be slain, provided certain  rites  were
 enacted  to insure rebirth and return.  Animals  appeared  in
 vision, to become guardians, initiators, and vehicles of  the
 shamans, bestowing upon them knowledge, power, and  spiritual
 insight.   And  the people, in their rites,  dressed  as  and
 imitated beasts."

 Some  form  of  Shamanism is/has been  practiced  in  Eastern
 Siberia - Manchuria (notably among the Tungus), Tibet, China,
 Japan  &  Korea to Mongoloid and Turkic tribes.   The  Finns,
 Lapps,  Estonians & Hungarians form the western  frontier  of
 old world Shamanism.

 On  this continent, the Eskimos, on the north pacific  coast,
 the  Plateau,  California,  Great  Basin,  Plains  &  Eastern
 Woodland  tribes, and some (not all) of the S.W.  tribes.  In
 many  communities  in Middle America (Mexico to  Panama)  the
 traditions have been confused with Catholicism,  however many
 tribes in South America still practice Shamanism.

 Mircea  Eliade,  chairman  of the department  of  history  of
 religions at the University of Chicago, is considered by many
 to   be  the  ultimate  source  of  information  on   archaic
 Shamanism.   In  his book "Shamanism: Archaic  Techniques  of
 Ecstasy"  he credits an even wider range of the practice than
 the  above  information from the Britanica.  He  states  that
 generally  Shamanism coexists with other forms of  magic  and
 religion.

 Eliade also says that not all magicians are Shamans, although
 Shamans practice magic, and not all medicine men are Shamans,
 although  Shamans  heal. "It would be more correct  to  class
 shamanism  among  the mysticisms than with what  is  commonly
 called  a  religion.   We  shall  find  shamanism  within   a
 considerable  number  of  religions,  for  shamanism   always
 remains an ecstatic technique.  A comparison at once come  to
 mind  - that of monks, mystics, and saints  within  Christian
 churches.

 "..a  shaman  is not recognized as such until  after  he  has
 received  two  kinds  of  training:  (1)  ecstatic   (dreams,
 trances,  etc.)  and (2)  traditional  (shamanic  techniques,
 names  and functions of the spirits, mythology and  genealogy
 of  the  clan,  secret  language,  etc.).   It  is  only  the
 initiatory death and resurrection that consecrates a shaman".

 A more modern interpretation is given in "Medicine Cards"  by
 Jamie Sams.

 The  basic idea of the ancient initiations was to break  down
 all  the  former notions of "self or a ritualistic  death  of
 some way of life that no longer suits the growth pattern.


 Jose  and  Lena  Stevens,  in  their  book  "The  Secrets  of
 Shamanism" offer this description of the modern Shaman.

 "While  shamans  have no fixed dogma or religion ,  they  all
 believe in the universal web of power that supports all life.
 According  to shamanism, all elements of the environment  are
 alive and all have their source of power in the spirit world.
 Rocks,  plants,  animals, clouds, and wind are  charged  with
 life  and  must be paid due respect for  the  maintenance  of
 harmony  and health.  Shamans consider all life-forms  to  be
 interconnected, and a mutually supportive balance among  them
 is  essential  for  humankinds  survival.   Our  job  is   to
 understand  this  balance  and to live in  harmony  with  it,
 always  taking nature into consideration in  every  endeavor.
 The  web of power in nature is the life giver and the  source
 of all successful activity."

 Many  Native  Americans resent having the ways  of  the  "Red
 Road"  taught to non Amerindians. Some, who  have  some trace
 of   Amerindian  blood,  have found   Native   teachers   and
 greatly resent what they often refer to as New  Age/Neo/Urban
 shamans.   Ed  (Eagleman) McGaa, in his  book  "Mother  Earth
 Spirituality",  responds that "if we do not teach  other  two
 legs to love the Mother Earth, when they destroy it, ALL  two
 legs will go with them."

 Suggested  reading  on  more  modern  Shamanic   practices,in
 addition to the books noted above:

 "In The Shadow of the Shaman" by Amber Wolfe
 "Urban Shaman"  by Dr. Serge Kahili King
 And,  when it is published, "The HuMat Ceremony"  by  Tandika
 Star

