
What is Paganism?

Ask the average person in the street what a Pagan is and
they will probably reply "a non-Christian" or "a Heathen".
The first is a somewhat parochial view and stems from the
popular Christian (and Victorian) attitude that they are
"right" and everyone else is "wrong"; the second, whilst
technically correct, is often used pejoratively suggesting
someone who is rather uncultured or uncivilized.

The original literal definition of Pagan comes from the
Latin "paganus" meaning country dweller (see glossary).
Although this meaning is largely irrelevant today, the
implications regarding agricultural cycles and Nature are
still vital to the concept.

In modern terms, Paganism is a Nature based animistic and
pantheistic religion in which the individual, either alone
or in communion with others, recognizes that she or he is
a part of Nature and the natural cycle of life.
To a certain extent, this is borne out by a modern
definition of Pagan as given by the Oxford English
Dictionary (2nd full edition 1989) which states that a
Pagan is:

   One who is nature worshipping - pantheistic.

This is perhaps a little simplistic as Pagans do not
actually worship Nature but the forces that manifest
through Nature, which are aspects of the ultimate Divine
Force that Christians recognize as  "God".

Modern Paganism is a coherent and valid spiritual path
that sees Divinity in all aspects of the natural universe.
It has its roots in the pre-Christian religions and myths
of Europe when humankind lived closer to the cycles of
Nature.

The Divine is seen, not as separate from creation, but as
manifesting through it.  All of Creation, both animate and
inanimate, is therefore seen as containing a spark of the
Divine Force.  In short, to a Pagan, all natural things
are sacred and to be treated with reverence and care.

A major way in which Paganism differs from the
monotheistic religions is that it sees the Divinity as
manifesting as Goddess and God, a divine pair.  The
feminine Goddess is often personified as the Earth Mother
and the masculine God as the Sun Father; but Paganism has
no set dogma and these principles will be differently
personified at different times of the year or to reflect
particular preferences or concerns of individual or groups
of Pagans.  Paganism, like Hinduism(1), is thus polytheistic.
Pagans are not idolaters.  They do not worship trees,
stones, rivers or animals any more than Christians worship
statues of the Virgin Mary or Crucifixes.  As with Chris-
tians, Pagans worship that which is behind these things,
what they symbolize and represent.

Pagans try, within the confines imposed by modern life, to
live in harmony with the natural forces of the world
around them.  They do not accept the biblical attitude
that states, "God gave man dominion over the world"; they
regard themselves as parts of a very much greater whole
and that the parts of the whole are interdependent upon
one another for survival.

Pagans are thus extremely ecologically conscious; much of
their magical work is concerned with healing the Earth.
But in addition many put considerable effort into
recycling, energy saving, avoidance of adding to pollution
and animal welfare.  It is this deep feeling for the way
in which the living Earth is suffering that has led people
to call Paganism "Green Spirituality" and is one reason
for its widening appeal at this time.

Paganism is essentially a joyous celebratory religion
involving a great deal of mirth and merriment together
with an underlying reverence and respect for Nature in all
Her many forms.  The emphasis is on what is good in life
rather than what is bad or sinful.

Paganism is highly principled with three main tenets:

Love & kinship with Nature:  rather than the more
customary attitude of aggression and domination over
Nature; reverence for the life force and its ever renewing
cycles of life and death

The Pagan ethic:  "Do what thou wilt, but harm none".
This is a positive morality, not a list of "thou-shalt-
nots".  Each individual is responsible for his or her true
nature and for developing it fully, in harmony with the
outer world.

Acceptance of the polarity of the Deity:  the concept of
both Goddess and God:  active participation in the cosmic
dance of the Goddess and God, female and male, rather than
the suppression of either the female or the male
principle.

Given that Paganism is an open, non-secret, life affirming
religious system, there is no reason why children should
not be brought up as Pagans.  There is nothing in its
beliefs, ethics or practices that is inappropriate for
children.  Pagan parents have the same rights as do those
of any other religion to teach their children their
beliefs and values.

Notes
1  In fact European Paganism and Hinduism share a common ancestry, both
        being from the same religious source in the Indus Valley.


