


             " T H E    J O U R N E Y    O F    A    W I Z A R D "


                       A Visualization Exercise by Ariel





                                 INTRODUCTION

        I  have  often  wondered how I came to choose this path I've taken.
    Many times  wondering  if  these  things  I  experience  are  real,  or
    imaginary.  Some may say, this depends on what you perceive as reality.
    I  tend to consider all paths of higher learning our main goal in life,
    thus wanting to experience all that I can....

        This document reflects some very personal places  of  consciousness
    that I've visited, and some that I would really love to be able to stay
    within.   Alas, my mortal body is not able to justify a path that isn't
    taking it along, hence we as mortals have to maintain the physical self
    while in this plane of consciousness.

        As  you  read  through  this document, imagine yourself within this
    dominion.  Allow yourself to utilize all  of  your  senses,  especially
    those  involving touch, and smell.  If you notice a rock, make a mental
    note of its shape, weight, size, and feel, as these are  all  important
    steps during the experience.  It is important that you prepare yourself
    with  some  kind of relaxation technique.  There are many available, so
    use which ever works best for you.

        Perhaps in time, we all can make these places of power a  conscious
    reality,  and  enable  both  the physical and spiritual bodys to occupy
    both levels.  However, until then we must continue  to  search  onward.
    This may help you to reach those levels that you seek.



                          THE WIZARDS STAFF OF POWER

    I have invisioned several places of power within my studies,  but  none
    as enlightening as the following.  This is as close to the feeling as I
    can  get,  using words to describe the power and feeling of enchantment
    that I've received from this journey.  Read  on,  as  it  explains  the
    symbol of the Wizards power staff....

        I  dream  of  a  place  where  the  air  is  pure,  and  spring  is
    constant..with fragrant flowers of every hue around  me.   I  dream  of
    this  place having several shades of aqua, blue, violet, and the purest
    white light surrounding me, with vast rivers and wide open  valleys  of
    ever changing shades of green and amber.

        Within this place, all are welcome to admire its beauty, and absorb
    the  energies that surround its presence.  Within this place, one is at
    peace with winged creatures of every shape and size.., for this  is  my
    place  of power where my staff resides, and my spirit is one with every
    part of its existence.

        Once in this place of power, you are visited by several  creatures,
    each  with  a  unique  story to share of life.  How you are so welcomed
    within this place, that you are embraced by each creatures spirit which
    tend to make you learn from each of them.  You grow from sharing  their
    experiences, and they grow simply because you are there to listen. What
    a wonderful feeling you have...

        You  begin to sense the presence of others of your kind within this
    dominion, yet you are not afraid.  Each of these individuals are  there
    for  the  same  purpose...   to learn, and share from each other.  This
    place holds no grief, or sorrow.  No worry or want, not even  jealousy,
    or hatred.  Lower vibrations are not within this realm.

        You  begin  to sense the warmth of the light that is emanating from
    this place of power.  It fills your very soul with radiance, and  light
    of pure truth.  You are perhaps a bit drunk with the radiant power that
    is   collected  within  your  staff,  yet  you  feel  warm,  loved  and
    secure...as you should, as you have just been through your own presence
    as others see you!

        You are instructed to collect  several  things  from  mother  Earth
    while  in  this  special  place.   Allow  the creatures to show you the
    specific methods and impliments needed to complete this magickal staff.

        Behold a rod of Birch, Cedar,  or  Elm,  of  approximately  sixteen
    hands high. Touch this staff, and allow your inner being to flow within
    its  very  core.  Behold, you are given insight to the location of your
    stone of power. Create a mounting for this stone in the highest nest of
    the staff. Feel the energy pass through the staff into  the  stone,  as
    you secure it into place.

        You  absorb this energy as your staff is energized by the creatures
    that you encounter, and they in turn, are energized by the radiance you
    give off to the others.  You are the key to the existence of this place
    of power.  Call upon your staff to change what  is  necessary  to  help
    others  complete  their journeys, and return them to their mortal plane
    of consciousness.

        Now, allow the staff to rest..as this magickal connection will take
    time to become one with each other.  You may  continue  to  study  this
    place  of  power  that surrounds you. Perhaps tell of your life here on
    Earth, to the others that occupy this land.

        You will move into several other dominions..each having  their  own
    unique  mysteries  to  tap.   Collect  items  of power from each of the
    creatures that you come into contact with.   Allow  them  to  give  you
    insight  to  things  that  you may add to this magickal staff.  In turn
    thank them for their time, and patience.  I have been  known  to  share
    experiences  with every creature within the various dominions.  This is
    quite interesting to them, as they are usually trapped  within  one  or
    two spheres of consciousness, and desire further contact with others.

        Fear  not,  as you are guided by this staff of light, as it is your
    link to this place of power that the creatures there have intrusted  to
    you.   Use it wisely, my friend, and give back what you have taken with
    something of equal or greater value.

        Follow what you have learned, allow others to  experience  the  joy
    that  you  have given back, and your powers will increase three fold as
    it is a gift from those in the world that you have created.  This cycle
    which is endless, but must have your presence to survive.  You are  the
    key.. the one..  This power yours, given out of love...


                           THE CREATION OF SANCTUARY

        Sanctuary is a special place that everyone needs... Imagine a place
    that  is yours, built to suit your own needs, by your own hand.  It can
    be as simple as a meadow surrounded  by  trees,  or  as  complex  as  a
    fortress,  guarded by a wall of energy.. inpenetrable to those that are
    not welcome.  It is a plane of consciousness  where  you  are  able  to
    release  all  of  your  frustration  caused by living day by day in the
    mundane world.  A place you can go for protection, conteplation, study,
    and rest.  Consider these options prior to building your Sanctuary, and
    your experience will be truly enlightening!

        Hail the elements, call upon the forces of Fire,  Earth,  Air,  and
    Water.  Each in their own way is uniquely independent of the other, yet
    may  be called upon to serve as you command.  Allow your inner strength
    to come forth, and begin to create the stone, wood, and other materials
    needed to construct this Sanctuary.  Cleanse this area with the  purity
    of  white  light, and cast your staff downward to ground your lifeforce
    within this timeless place.  You may begin to see a  beautiful  forest,
    covered  with  willow, and birch, or perhaps it is filled with fragrant
    blossoms of honeysuckle, hyicenth, or iris.  Perhaps a land filled with
    sweetgrass, or rolling meadows of herb and shrub, also  may  be  within
    your mind's eye.

        Condition this space with your very presence, as you open your mind
    to  the  wonders  that  are  around you.  Begin to sense each creature,
    rock, and tree around you.  Explain that  you  are  here  to  create  a
    protective  place of power.  Each of the creatures herin will obey your
    commands, as you are the one that will allows them to begin to flourish
    and blossom.

        Allow each stone, or piece of wood to take  root  in  this  special
    place.   Direct your staff to each object, and command that they change
    to fit what ever shape or form you desire.  This is  the  beginning  of
    your sanctuary, a dwelling of such power that no one will enter without
    your  permission.   There  is  safety,  and  solitude as you notice the
    powers within your  staff  and  amulet  are  reborn,  and  you  feel  a
    wonderous charge around you!

        The  power  here is so intense that you are compelled to raise your
    voice as you speak the name you have chosen,  for  all  to  hear.   You
    notice  how  each  creature,  now  knowing your power name will tend to
    assist you in the preparation of all things to come.  Hark, the feeling
    of inner peace is overwhelming, and tends to overflow to each of  them,
    as they do your bidding with great care, and harmony.

        Do  realize that this sanctuary, and the creatures that inhabit the
    dominion with you, are not within the plane of consciousness  that  you
    visited  when  you  created  your  staff of power. These creatures were
    manifested to assist you in the  building  of  Sanctuary,  and  nothing
    more.   They  cannot give you any further help, unless you command them
    too.  Do realize that you are the sole lifeforce  that  dominates  this
    place.  While the other creatures seem to be of the physical body, they
    are in fact entities, reborn to hail at your command.

        Try  not  to  accomplish  too  much within this first trip, as this
    magickal place is newly born, and needs time to settle.  You  may  want
    to command the creatures to protect this place, until such time you can
    come  back  and  build  some  more.   Fear not, as your spirit has been
    instilled within each of them.  Provide them with additional  strength,
    by creating food, and shelter for each to rest within.  Explain to them
    that  you  will return, refreshed and with great solitude.  By then you
    should have an idea of the structure that you want to place here.

        Now, allow rest to both the creatures that have  assisted  you,  as
    well  as  yourself.   Be  at  peace  with them, be kind to them, and in
    return they will once again come to life when called by you.



                           THE BUILDING OF SANCTUARY

        Cleanse yourself, and allow yourself to enter unto your  Sanctuary.
    Command  your  staff  to  transport you to this magickal location, that
    only you know about.  Separate the lower vibrations of  Earthly  origin
    from  your Ethereal body, and allow yourself to draw strength and power
    from your magickal staff.

        Call upon the powers of Sanctuary, and the forces of  Fire,  Earth,
    Air,  and Water, to fill this place with harmony.  Announce your chosen
    name to all that may hear, and command them to  materialize,  and  they
    will.   Welcome each creature as they become apparent to you and listen
    to anything they may tell you.  They may possibly tell  you  of  others
    that  have  tried  to  visit  this place, due to the radiance that this
    place gives off.

        Call upon your staff  to  energize  the  materials  that  you  have
    collected  in  past visitations.  Now that you have an idea in mind, of
    how your Sanctuary will look, proceed to build it...  stone  by  stone.
    Again,  allow  the  creatures there to assist you in your work.  Notice
    how content they are to help,  and  thank  them  out  of  courtesy  and
    respect.

        You  will need to rest occationally, as Sanctuary draws much energy
    to itself.  Being that you have complete much,  create  a  spring  from
    which  you  and  the  creatures  may  drink.  Cast your staff down, and
    command the element of Water to appear before you.  Do not expend  much
    energy  on  designing  this spring with garnishments at this time.  You
    may however, notice vast changes in the conditions and terrain once the
    magickal waters behold each blade of grass, rock, or wood.

        Once you have designed your Sanctuary, raise  your  staff  up,  and
    outward  to  seal  its  design.   Next,  say  this phrase..  "Hail, the
    Sanctuary of _________", the Wizard.  Admire the work that you and  the
    creatures have done, for it is of your design.  Gaze at its beauty, for
    it  is  a  direct reflection of its creator.  Allow your inner being to
    become charged to the point that you  feel  a  tingling  sensation  all
    around  your  ethereal  body.   Allow your inner being to glow with the
    radiance that you have summoned, and  give  that  energy  back  to  the
    creatures  that  have  assisted  you,  as  they too have worked hard to
    accomplish this task.

        Now rest within your place of power, with the creatures  that  have
    assisted  you.  Do not be alarmed if you notice some are no longer with
    you, as their tasks are  complete.   Only  your  "power"  animals  will
    remain after the cleansing of your Sanctuary, and this is normal. Allow
    other allow visions or magickal changes to become apparent to you while
    in this dream-like state.

        Each  time  you  come  to Sanctuary, bring a new magickal gift, and
    allow it to become part of the scenery.  This will only give  Sanctuary
    more  energy,  and  will  continue to refresh your being with the peace
    that is necessary.  You may visit Sanctuary as many times as you  wish,
    and even bring others with you.  The choice is yours, and only yours.



                                 THE OBLISQUE

        The  Wizard's  Oblisque,  is  a  tool  of  great importance.  It is
    usually made of crystal, or precious stone, fashioned in any form  that
    is  desired.   It is always both physical and etheric, a bridge to both
    worlds, and others.  It is  usually  located  within  Sanctuary,  in  a
    central  location,  while  its  physical  counterpart  is placed in the
    physical realm, usually in a room, on an alter, and is usually found to
    be close to the Wizards color of strength.  Some  may  have  chosen  an
    Oblisque  with  the  power  color inside.  As mentioned, this varies to
    personal preferences.  Both the Staff,  and  Oblisque  are  used  as  a
    standard...a  mark of his power, and are usually consecrated by another
    of his kind while in the physical plane of consciousness.

        The function of the Oblisque is to tie the  earthly  plane  to  the
    spiritual  plane,  with Sanctuary being the connecting point.  However,
    many choose to utilize the power of the Oblisque for healing,  defense,
    and  to  simply  charge  the earthly plane with ungrounded power.  This
    enables the Wizard to call upon the powers of Sanctuary  at  any  given
    time, to utilize (although limited while in the earthly plane) at will.
    Although  the  Oblisque  is usually stationary, its powers are directed
    through the staff.  Think of the staff as a collector and the Oblisque,
    as a place to deposit the energy, once collected, thus the  ability  of
    the Wizard to renew his strength is unmatched to my knowledge.

        Your next task is to create your own Oblisque within Sanctuary.  Be
    sure  to have a working idea of what you wish the oblisque to look like
    prior to it being received within the Sanctuary.  This  will  omit  the
    wasted  time  of  designing  a  special  room  to  house  the oblisque,
    something that you will do while in Sanctuary anyway.

        Learn  from  each  visitation while in Sanctuary.  Allow your power
    animals to inform  you  of  changes,  or  other  important  events,  or
    knowledge  obtained  during your absence.  Some of you who have studied
    Shamanistic  techniques  should  really  be  able  to  understand  this
    concept.   (There  are  many  ways a person can create places of power.
    Utilizing tools to accomplish this task is merely, my method only.  You
    may try this method yourself, but understand...it's not the only way to
    achieve balance and harmony.)

        For  more  information  please utilize the "Self Heal" series found
    on The Astralite BBS (619)276-7623.  You will find  that  most  methods
    are  somewhat  like the others.  However, use the method that works for
    you. Blessings to each of you..live in light and love

                                                The Wizard Ariel>

