Here's a little more info for you. Passed on to me from a dear friend..
 
"Medicine Cards, The Discovery of Power Through the Ways of Animals"
by Jamie Sams & David Carson
illustrated by Angela C. Werneke
 
Bear & Company
P.O. Drawer 2860
Santa Fe, NM 87504
 
ISBN 0-939680-53-X
 
15 WOLF -- Teacher
 
Wolf...
Teacher,
Pathfinder,
Moon-dog of my soul.
 
Howling,
Singing,
Teaching how to know.
 
Wolf is the pathfinder, the forerunner of new ideas who returns to the clan to 
teach and share medicine. Wolf takes one mate for life and is loyal like Dog
In the Great Star Nation, Wolf is represented by the Dog Star,
Sirius, which legend tells us was the original home of our teachers
in ancient times. Sirius was thought to be the home of the gods by
the ancient Egyptians, and is still considered so by the Dogon tribe
in Africa. It stands to reason that Native American peoples would
formulate this same connection and adopt Wolf people as the clan of
teachers.
 
The senses of Wolf are very keen, and the moon is its power ally. The
moon is the symbol for psychic energy, or the unconscious that holds
the secrets of knowledge and wisdom. Baying at the moon may be an
indication of Wolf's desire to connect with new ideas which are just
below the surface of consciousness. Wolf medicine empowers the teacher
within us all to come forth and aid the children of Earth in understanding
the Great Mystery and life.
 
If you have drawn Wolf's card, you may be able to share your personal
medicine with others. Your intuitive side may also have an answer or
teaching for your personal use at this time. As you feel Wolf coming alive
within you, you may wish to share your knowledge by writing or lecturing
on information that will help others better understand their uniqueness
or path in life. It is in the sharing of great truths that the consciousness
of humanity will attain new heights. Wolf could also be telling you to seek
out lonely places that will allow you to see your teacher within. In the
aloneness of a power place, devoid of other humans, you may find the
true you. Look for teachings no matter where you are. Wolf would not
come to you unless you requested the appearance of the tribe's greatest
teacher.
 
Contrary:
 
If Wolf is reversed, you are being asked to expand your limited view of
the present situation. Doing this may entail a great deal of courage
and a willingness to look at new ideas. It could also require that
you delete some old ideas to make room for the expansiveness that
always comes when you are willing to learn. The gift of wisdom comes
to you when you have walked enough pathways and found enough dead ends
to truly know the forest. In the discovery and rediscovery of every
inch of ground comes the knowledge that nothing ever remains the same.
 
Contrary Wolf may also be telling you that stagnation or fear of
asserting your viewpoint has bogged down the flow of change in your
life. Wolf reversed is [always] urging you to seek the teachers or
pathfinders that will show you the way to new life experiences.
Remember, the teacher or pathfinder may be the small still voice
within, as well as a person, a leaf, a cloud, a stone, a tree, a book,
or the Great Spirit.
 
To live is to grow, and growing comes through accepting all life forms
as your teachers. Become Wolf, and take up the sense of adventure. You
may just stop howling and learn to [become] the moon.


