THE COUNT
---------

In this adventure, your goal is to find and kill the evil vampire, Count
Dracula. This is probably the most boring of the Adams adventures because you
have to do a lot of waiting for some things to happen, and exactly when they
happen seems to be a random thing.

You start off in bed in Dracula's house. Get the sheets, then get up. Go North
into the hallway, then West into the kitchen. Enter the dumb waiter and raise
it, then go room. You are now in the pantry. Get the matches and the garlic,
then return to the dumb waiter.

At this point, you can do some exploring to waste time, because you're waiting
for the bell to ring (do a little mapping!). This will tell you that the
postman has delivered some mail to the house. Once you hear the bell, go to
the front door. You will find a postcard with a note clipped to it. Get the
paper clip and drop the note.

Now, return to the kitchen, get into the dumb waiter, and lower it to the Work
Room. Go into the room. Pick the lock on the closet door (with the paper clip,
of course), open the door, and enter the closet. Drop the stake you're
carrying, then get the vial and leave.

Back in the Work Room, close and re-lock the door, and drop the paper clip.
Now it's time to get a light source, so go Down to the dungeon. Tie the sheets
to the iron ring, then descend into the pit. Get the torch (it's there even
though you can't see it), and climb out again. You don't have to bother with
the sheets again for now.

Now go back up to the kitchen. Empty the vial (3 no-doz tablets come out) then
drop it. Now you have to wait until sunset, but you must be careful here. Stop
saying "wait" as soon as it starts to get dark outside, and take a tablet.
Then continue to wait until nightfall, at which time, light your torch.

Wait a little longer, then enter the oven. It's a solar oven, so you can never
get in here during the day. Get the nailfile that's inside, and leave the
oven. At this point, you have done all you can, so you might as well go back
to bed. Remember to unlight the torch before going to sleep. This night you
will be bitten, and there is nothing you can do about it.

The next morning, you will notice that the sheets are on the bed again. Get
them, then get up. Tie the sheet to the bed, then get the sheet (loose end),
open the window, go out the window, and drop the end of the sheet over the
ledge.

Now climb down the sheet, go to the Window Box, then go through the window
into the room. Get the portrait of Dracula, then drop it. This will reveal a
secret passage. If you want to explore it, go ahead (light torch first). Just
make sure you unlight the torch before trying to climb back up the sheets!

Well, here you have to do some more waiting, as now you have plenty of time to
kill until the mailman brings a certain package. So, just mess around again
until the bell rings. At that point, go to the front door again.

Open the package. Inside are a bottle of blood and a pack of cigarettes. Get
the cigarettes (make sure you say "pack"!). Now go back to the kitchen and get
the tablets. After that, go back down the sheets to the room with the secret
passage. You should do this before night falls.

Now wait for sunset the same way you did the night before. Once the sun sets,
light your torch and go into the passage. Follow it along to the crypt. Get a
cigarette (you may have to drop something first), then smoke it. Dracula's
(empty) coffin will appear (this is the only way to make the coffin appear).

Open the coffin and go inside. Use the file to break the bolt on the coffin,
then get out again. Drop the cigarette, pick up anything else you may have
dropped, and leave the passage. Now, take a second cigarette from night, it
really isn't necessary, since you can take three bites before succumbing. So,
you might just as well put out the torch and go to sleep.

Once again, you wake up in the bed, with the sheets. Get them, and tie them to
the bed as you did the day before. Instead of climbing down however, first go
to the dumb waiter and from there to the Work Room. Use the clip to pick the
the lock on the closet door so you can get the stake. Also make sure you grab
the mallet on your way out.

Now that you have the stake and the hammer, go up to the kitchen again, and
from there to the bedroom and down the sheets to the secret passage. Light the
torch, enter the passage, and go to the crypt. Smoke the cigarette, and the
coffin will appear again.

Open the coffin, go inside (yes, you must!), and apply the coup-de-grace to
the vampire. TA-DA! You're a hero! (Hey, you're pretty good at this stuff. How
are you with voodoo...)

