In reply to Msg #  185 in Conf #    6 'Magicknet' / /            
To  : Darren Hanson
From: THE IMAGE
Subj: Tarotic Hygene
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
In message #185, Darren Hanson writes:
 
Greetings Darren,
 
> Okay, now I think I understand why. How about giving a 
> poor, uninformed solitary Wiccan a few hints on the HOW of 
> it now. 
 
   Whenever someone self-describes as something like "poor,
uninformed", alarms start pealing <grin>! But no prob.
 
   A bit more background, it'll make this a bit more sensible when
I. explain how I. did it. When I. started this, I. was heavily into
Qabbalistic Magick, Crowleyish to the core. My methods at the time,
and which I. continue to use for this purpose simply because it's one of
many that happen to work fine, were based upon that in basic form. I. just
want to make sure you understand that any system will do ya just fine,
adapt till it tastes just about right!
 
   First I. went out to purchase a box, and found that no such animal was
readily available that would handle the Thoth, the thing was just too
outsized. But I. did run across a leather dice bag in a gaming store which
was perfect, down to the loop on the back so that I. could hang it from my
belt. Nice bag, I. took it home, and made it into a talisman. Talisman
making comes in a zillion different forms, again, just use whichever is
native your Perspective, or appeals the most. I. used Israel Regardie's
talismanic system, supplimented by the GD's work in that huge blue book.
The details of the talisman I.'ll leave to you, but here's what it did.
 
   I. used the Emanation from 000->Kether for clearing a Tarot Deck
ordinarily, just as I. would for clearing a psychically dirty room or
implement. It is 'pure' enough that it doesn't bias anything, boundless
in quantity and availability, and powerful enough to do a thorough job of
it. Just as you would do a Middle Pillar exercise, but have the Talisman
do this constantly and draw it inwards. I. was heavy into symbology as
well and anchored support from a number of different systems in
conjunction with Qabbalism. You can work with whatever you like, it really
doesn't matter, as long as you get the result. The power that the Talisman
drew to cleanse the deck was the same power source to keep it running.
Sort of the way dams were supposed to provide self-sustaining power once
upon a time, but in Magick it actually works. If you hold my Thoth pouch
in your hands and 'scan' it, it feels like it's vibrating just a faint
bit, the way a pipe does when water is flowing thru it rapidly. Neat.
 
> My deck worries me some days as I stumble blindly 
> along with it. I think it would be rather nice to get any 
> of the extranious influences out and away from the deck....
 
   The only real danger a Tarot deck can pose is that it helps to set the
potentials in the Pattern, not only predicting the future, but also aiding
strongly in bringing it about.... I. rarely use mine anymore, I.'ve
incorporated most of the Tarot's basic function, intrinsically. But on
occassion, when I. want to really skew the potentials hard, I.'ll haul 'em
out and lay 'em out.... Not often tho....
 
Always,
-Images of the Imagination
 
 
 
 
 
 

