

           SEULS JOURNEY MAGICKAL OILS
           ---------------------------

              In most traditions of Candleburning, it is considered
    important to consecrate and bless one's candles before using them for
    Magick.  This is done by pouring a little bit of oil onto the palm or
    fingertips then applying the oil to the candle by starting from it's
    center and rubbing upwards toward the tip ion smooth, even strokes
    then returning to the center and applying oil in the same manner
    downward toward the candles lower end.  Magickal oils may also be used
    to anoint objects and ritual tools. SEULS JOURNEY MAGICKAL OILS are
    designed for the following specific purposes.

    CLEOPATRA OIL - Named after the legendary Egyptian seductress, this
                    oil is used for love and romance, Anoint and burn
                    pink candles for love magicks

    BANISHING OIL - Use this oil to neutralize and eliminate unwanted and
                    or harmful influences.  Anoint and burn white candles
                    for clearing a space and protection

    HEALING OIL -   This oil is used to promote good physical health and
                    to accelerate the healing process.  For general
                    purposes anoint white candles for self healing or to
                    send healing energy to others who need it.

    HIGH CONQUERING
       OIL      -   Use to oil to master life situations.  Anoint and burn
                    purple candles to overcome obstacles and control your
                    life.
    HOLY PROTECTION
       OIL      -   This specially blended oil was formulated from an old
                    Celtic family recipe. Anoint and burn white candles
                    for protection from all harm and for generally
                    improving spiritual vibrations

    JUPITER OIL  -  This planetary oil is used for drawing success, good
                    fortune, and good luck.  Anoint and burn royal blue
                    candles on a Thursday while the moon is waxing
                    (between the new and full moon) to bring beneficial
                    energies into your life.

    MONEY IN
    ABUNDANCE
     OIL       -    This is a money and wealth drawing oil, used to
                    increase one's financial resources.  Anoint and burn
                    emerald green candles for money spells.  Anoint and
                    burn gold candles to attract riches and to win.

    MOONGODDESS
    OIL          -  This is an excellent oil for drawing in the presence
                    of the triple goddess.  Anoint and burn white, silver,
                    or light purple candles for new and full moon rituals
                    to invoke the Goddess in time of need, and to enhance
                    your psychic talents

    POWER OIL   -   This oil has been catalyzed with roots and herbs
                    traditionally used for enpowerment.  Anoint and burn
                    candles of any color to add extra potency to your
                    magicks

    SATYR OIL  -    Dedicated to the Horned God, this dynamic attraction
                    oil can be used by men to attract and excite a lover
                    Anoint and burn red candles for love and pleasure.

    VENUS OIL  -    Named after the goddess of love, this oil can be used
                    by women to attract a lover, and also as a planetary
                    oil for Venusian magicks.  Anoint and burn red candles
                    for love and passion. Anoint and burn pink or green
                    candles for friendship and popularity

    ALSO AVAILABLE - Copal, Styrax, Patchouli, Camphor, Clove, Lavendar,
    Orange Grove, Bergamont, Vetivert, Lotus, Spearmint, Frankincense,
    Myrrh, Heliotrope, Jasmine, Cedar, Sandalwood

     PRICES - 1 dram is $2.00
              2 drams are $3.50
              4 drams are $7.00

              These are only suggestions for basic uses of these oils.
    Use your knowledge of planetary correspondences, color magick, psychic
    intuition, and other sources of information to help you make full use
    of these oils.  The advanced magickal practitioner may utilize these
    oils according to techniques gained in further study.

              High quality ingredients have been used to formulate these
    oils and every possible effort has been made to insure that they are
    safe for use.  They are designed as ritual anointing oils for candles
    and the consecration of objects.  Common sense will dictate how to
    safely and with optimum benefit use these oils.  BLESSED BE!






