Nachricht #11/14 in "METAPHYSICAL"  (Oeffentlich)
Datum  : 18.Mar 92 22:17
Von    : The Scribe
An     : All
Betreff: drug use
=> 12887
Paul Tuitean
PO BX 24213
Edina MN 55424

Dear Gentle people;
     Enclosed you should find an article which I am trying to get
published in  as many Pagan newspapers as possible before the main start
of the Festival season.
    I am a representative of the Guardians of the fourth face. Which is
a pagan order concerned with the safety and security of the entire Pagan
Community, and we believe that it is time for us as a community, to make
some decisions about our public use of drugs. Thus this article.
    We are trying to reach as large a Pagan audience as possible and would
appreciate the inclusion of this article in your news letter. Because of
this We waive all copyrights etc., and request that you print my address
with this letter so as to facilitate the dissemination of this article and
any feed back you might receive.
     We feel that this is a very important issue for our community at
this time and believe that we should try to arrive at some sort of
consensus as a group, before we as a community have to face the far
reaching effects of a "DRUG BUST" at one of our gatherings
Thank you very much for your time.
                            Blessed Be
                            Paul Tuitean
                  Guardians of the Fourth Face

(Continued next message)


--- QuickBBS 2.75 Ovr
 * Origin: CRYSTAL CAVE DAS MAGICKAL TREFFPUNKT 719-391-1092 (93:9510/0)
Nachricht #12/14 in "METAPHYSICAL"  (Oeffentlich)
Datum  : 18.Mar 92 22:18
Von    : The Scribe
An     : All
Betreff: drug use
12886 <==> 12888
(Drugs continued  page 3 of 5)
Unfortunately things have changed sufficiently in the past couple of years
for all Pagans to question whether any controlled substance use at our
gatherings, can still be argued to"harm none". Here is why we believe this
issue is critical.
    A) Because of the so called war on drugs this countries drug laws
    (among others) have become more restrictive and repressive.
    With for example the possession of just 1/4 oz of marijuana now carrying
    a mandatory ten year sentence, or(if it is a second drug related offense)
    life with out parole, in one state we know of(Florida).
   B)The political orientation of this country has been swinging more and more
   towards the "right" and becoming increasingly intolerant as the economy
   has become more unstable. This has left some politicians, including some
   police Chiefs, looking for a new focus to enhance declining revenues.
   C)The great satanic Conspiracy Theory has Finally been fairly well
   discredited, this is leaving certain Satan experts looking for something
   to restore their lost credibility. Some of these experts are fundamen-
   talist Christian Police Officers.
These situations (among others) could provide some enterprising police
officers
with an extremely attractive "bust", if they could catch the people at a
witch's meeting in possession of,or(gods help us) dealing illegal substances.
How attractive  a bust is illustrated by what happened at the Gay Mens
Festival in Iowa two years ago, where thirty one law enforcement officers
from six different departments intervened.
    Where the Guardians see the most danger(besides the adverse publicity
that such a bust would produce ) is that any drug related arrest at one of
our gatherings would likely get:
        - the primary suspects long prison terms
        - all others present at the gathering arrested
        - The Organizers of the gathering and Owners of the property charged
        with various felonies ranging from "aiding and abetting","Concealing
        a Felony", "Conspiracy to distribute, "Running a disorderly or drug
        house", to "Contributing to the delinquency of minors" and Child
        abuse".

(Continued next Message)




--- QuickBBS 2.75 Ovr
 * Origin: CRYSTAL CAVE DAS MAGICKAL TREFFPUNKT 719-391-1092 (93:9510/0)
Nachricht #13/14 in "METAPHYSICAL"  (Oeffentlich)
Datum  : 18.Mar 92 22:19
Von    : The Scribe
An     : All
Betreff: drug use
12887 <==> 12931
Drugs continued  page 5 of 5

This will hopefully give the organizers and property owners some
hope of legal protection if a problem should arise. We also recommend
that the organizers of every pagan gathering consider including a similar
statement in their Waiver Forms. The Guardians are not trying to impose
our own moral judgment, or standards on anyone. If you feel that it is
within your inalienable Religious or Constitutional Rights to use drugs,
fine.If you feel the need to combat "UNJUST LAWS", fine. We only ask
that you do so in your territory, and please, do not Martyr your sisters
and brothers who may not be prepared for the honor.

We expect this article to generate some controversy in our community.
We anticipate some criticism for what we have said here. But the stakes
involved are too high and we believe the Pagan Community as a whole needs
to come to grips with this issue. The Guardians feel that because of
these very real threats to our people, that the entire Community needs to
reach a consensus to :
       -Consistently and visibly Ban the public use of Controlled
        Substances at all our Gatherings for the foreseeable future.
       -Pursue concerted legal and political efforts(on the state
        level where we can possibly get legislation enacted to our benefit
        in this matter) to change the laws we consider unjust, to warn our
        people, who may not be able to get involved, when they might be in
        jeopardy.
    As with all subjects that touch the safety or security of the pagan
Community, the Guardians of the Fourth Face, as members of the Pagan
Community, believe in the creed:
           "DO AS YE WILL, AN YE HARM OR ENDANGER NONE"

What do you believe ?

Blessed Be

                       Paul Tuitean of
                the Guardians of the fourth Face
                       PO BX 24213
                       Edina, MN 5424



--- QuickBBS 2.75 Ovr
 * Origin: CRYSTAL CAVE DAS MAGICKAL TREFFPUNKT 719-391-1092 (93:9510/0)