<-------------------------------------------------------------->
<__Astral_Projection_Part_II_><Call:___________________________>
<__The Seperation Process____><_______Arkham Asylum____________>
<__By: The Joker_____________><_______(302)-639-5537___________>
<__& The Occult Crue_________><______65 Megz_24oo Baud_________>
<--------------------------------------------------------------


 
The following was taken directly from the book Journeys Out of 
the Body, by Robert A. Monroe.

                     THE SEPARATION PROCESS

After you have achieved the state of vibration and some control 
of your stage of relaxation, one additional factor must be 
considered.  It is probable that you have already obtained it, 
since it is ordinarily a product of the previous exercises.  
However, it should be emphasized.
	This factor is thought control.  In the state of 
vibration, you are apparently subject to every thought, both 
willful and involuntary, that crosses your mind.  Thus you must 
be as close to "no thought" or "single thought" (concentration) 
as possible.  If one stray idea passes through your mind, you 
respond instantly, and sometimes in an undesirable manner.  I 
suspect that one is never completely free of such misdirection.  
At least I have not been, which may account for the many 
inexplicable trips to places and people I do not know.  They seem 
to be triggered by thoughts or ideas I didn't realize I had, 
below the conscious level.  The only approach is to do the best 
you can.
	With this in mind, the first practices of disassociating 
the Second from the physical body should be limited in time and 
action.  What follows is designed basically as a familiarization 
and orientation technique which should permit an approach to 
disassociation without fear or concern.
	Release of extremities.  This serves to acquaint you with 
the sensation of the Second Body without full commitment.  After 
relaxation and creation of the vibration state, work with either 
your right or left hand and arm, one at a time.  This is 
important, as it will be your first affirmation of the reality of 
the Second.  With one hand, reach for any object - floor, wall, 
door, or whatever - that you remember as being beyond the reach 
of your physical arm.  Reach for that object.  Make the reaching 
process neither upward nor downward, but out in the direction 
your arm is pointing.  Reach as if you were stretching your arm, 
not raising or lowering it.  A variation is simply to reach out 
with the hand and arm in the same manner with no special object 
in mind.  Often this method is better, as you then have no 
preconceived idea of what you will "feel."
	When you reach out in this fashion and feel nothing, push 
your hand a little farther.  Keep pushing gently, as if 
stretching you arm, until your hand encounters some material 
object.  If the vibration pattern is in effect, it will work, and 
your hand will eventually feel or touch something.  When it does, 
examine with your sense of touch the physical details of the 
object.  Feel for any cracks, grooves, or unusual details which 
you will later be able to identify.  At this point, nothing will 
seem unusual.  Your sensory mechanisms will tell you that you are 
touching the object with your physical hand.
	Here, then, is your first test.  After acquainting 
yourself with the object with your outstretched hand, straighten 
out your hand and push against the object with your fingertips.  
You will encounter resistance at first.  Push a little harder, 
and gently overcome the resistance you feel.  At this point, your 
hand will seem to go right through the object.  Keep pushing 
until your hand is completely through the object and meets some 
other physical object.  Identify the second object by touch.  
Then carefully withdraw your hand, back through the first object, 
and slowly back to normal, so that it feels as if it is where it 
"belongs."
	With this, decrease the vibrations.  The best way to do 
this is slowly to attempt to move the physical body.  Think of 
the physical body, and open your physical eyes.  Bring back your 
physical senses, deliberately.
	Once the vibrations have faded away completely, lie still 
for a few minutes for full and complete return.  Then get up and 
make a notation of the object which you "felt," locating it 
relative to the position of your hand and arm when you were lying 
down.  Note the details of both the first and second objects 
which you felt.  Having done this, compare your description with 
the actual first object.  Make special note of small details 
which you could not have seen from a distance.  Physically feel 
the object to compare it with what you felt under the vibrations.
	Examine the second object in the same manner.  You may 
not have been consciously aware of its presence or position prior 
to the experiment.  This too is important.  Test the line of 
direction from the place where your physical hand lay, through 
the first object and up to the second.  Is it a straight line?
	Check your results.  Was the first object you touched 
physically located at a distance it would have been absolutely 
impossible to reach without physical movement?  Did the details 
of the object - especially the minute details - coincide with the 
notes you have made?  Make the same comparison for the second 
object.
	If your answers are affirmative, you have had your first 
success.  If the facts do not check out, try again another day.  
Almost without qualification, if you have produced the 
vibrational state, you can perform this exercise.
	You can also practice the following quite easily.  After 
producing the vibrational state, lying on your back, arms either 
at your sides or on your chest, gently lift your arms without 
looking at them and touch your fingers together.  Do this quite 
casually, abstractly, and remember the sensory results.  Once you 
have clasped your hands above your chest, look at them first with 
your closed eyes.  If you have moved easily enough, you will see 
both physical and non-physical arms.  Your physical arms will be 
at rest at your side or upon your chest.  The sensory impressions 
will be with the non-physical arms and hands above your physical 
body.  You should test this phenomenon as many times as you wish, 
however you desire.  Prove to yourself that you are moving not 
your physical arms, but something else.  Do it by whatever means 
are necessary to give you full assurance of this reality.
	It is important always to return your non-physical arms 
to full conjunction with their physical counterparts before 
"shutting off" the vibration state.  Although there may be no 
severe aftereffect if this is not done, I think it best not to 
find out in the early stages.
	Disassociation technique.  The simplest method to use in 
separating from the physical is the "lift-out" procedure.  The 
intent here it not to travel to far-off places, but to get 
acquainted with the sensation in your own room, with familiar 
surroundings.  The reason for this is that the first true 
experience will then be examined and explored with identifiable 
points of reference.
	In order to assist in this orientation, it is better that 
these first complete disassociation exercises be conducted during 
daylight.  Test for yourself your needs in regard to the amount 
of light in the room.  Avoid using an electric light if possible.
	To establish the condition, achieve the vibrational 
state, and maintain complete control of your thought processes.  
You are going to stay only in the confines of your familiar room.  
Think of getting lighter, of floating upward, of how nice it 
would be to float upward.  Be sure to think how nice it would be, 
as the subjective associated thought is most important.  You want 
to do this because it is something you will respond to 
emotionally; you react even before the act, in anticipation.  If 
you continue to hold only these thoughts, you will disassociate 
and float gently upward from your physical.  You may not achieve 
it the first time, or the second.  But quite surely, if you have 
achieved the preceding exercises, you will achieve it.
	A second method is the "rotation" technique, which has 
been mentioned elsewhere.  Under the same prescribed conditions, 
slowly try to turn over, just as if you were turning over in bed 
to be more comfortable.  Make no attempt to help yourself rotate 
with either arms or legs.  Start turning by twisting the top of 
your body, your head and shoulders, first.  By all means move 
slowly, exerting gently but firm pressure.  If you do not, you 
may become loose and actually spin like a log rolling in water 
before you can alter the pressure.  Such action is disconcerting 
only because you may lose all orientation and be forced to find 
your way back carefully in rotation juncture.
	The ease with which you begin to turn, with no friction 
or sense of weight, will inform you that you have begun to 
succeed in disassociating.  As this happens, turn slowly until 
you feel that you have moved 180 degrees (i.e., face to face with 
your physical body).  It is uncanny how you will recognize this 
position.  this 180 degrees about face is merely two 90 degree 
turns, and without orientation, it is easy to sense.
	Once you are in the 180 degree position, stop the 
rotation by merely thinking of doing so.  Without hesitation, 
think of floating upward, backing up away from the physical body.  
Again, if you have reached the vibrational state successfully, 
this method will surely bring results.
	Of the two separation techniques, the first should be 
tried before the second.  Then, after both have been examined and 
tested, the one that seems easiest to you should be utilized.
	Local experiments and familiarization.  Once you have 
succeeded in the separation process, it is most important for 
your own objective continuity that you remain in complete 
control.  The only possible way to do this seems to be by staying 
close to the physical in the early stages.  Whatever you may feel 
emotionally, keep in close proximity to the physical.  This 
admonition is made not because of any known danger, but so that 
you will maintain a step-by-step familiarity and thus perceive 
for yourself exactly what is taking place.  Wild, uncontrolled 
trips at this stage may well produce uncomfortable situations and 
conditions that will force you to relearn much of what you have 
already achieved.  The process of mental acclamation will be 
different from any you have ever consciously experienced.  The 
gradual adaptation will greatly enhance your peace of mind and 
confidence.
	At this point, the principal exercise is to return.  Keep 
your separation distance no more than three feet away, hovering 
over the physical.  Do not make any attempt at this time to move 
laterally or farther "up."  How do you know how far aware you 
are?  Again, this is something you sense.  Your vision now is 
zero.  You have conditioned yourself not to open your eyes, and 
let them remain closed for the moment.  Stay close to the 
physical.  The mental concept of this will keep you in proper 
range.
	For the next three or four exercises, do nothing but 
practice getting "out" and returning to the physical.  To return 
under these conditions, merely "think" yourself back into the 
physical, and you will return.  If you have used the first method 
of separation, the reintegration is relatively simple.  When you 
are back in exact alignment, you will be able to move any portion 
of the physical body and reactivate any or all of your physical 
senses.  Each time you return, open your physical eyes and 
physically sit up so that you know you are completely "back 
together."  This is to ensure orientation, to instill confidence 
that you can return at will, and most important, to assure 
yourself of continued contact with the material world in which 
you now belong.  Whatever you believe, this reassurance is most 
necessary.
	If you have applied the rotation method, move slowly back 
toward the physical, again by thinking of it, and when you feel 
you have made complete contact, start your rotation back 180 
degrees to conjunction with the physical.  It seems to make no 
difference whether you continue the circle of rotation or reverse 
and turn back in a motion opposite to that which helped you 
release.
	In both techniques, there seems to be a slight, 
click-like jerk when you are again in conjunction with the 
physical.  An exact description of this sensation is quite 
difficult, but you will recognize it.  Always wait a few moments 
before sitting up after you have returned, primarily to avoid any 
possible uneasiness.  Give yourself some time to readjust to the 
physical environment.  The physical act of sitting up provides 
evidence of continuity in a demonstrable form;  you will know 
that you can consciously, willfully act in a physical movement 
interspersed with experiments in the non-physical environment and 
retain conscious awareness throughout the process.
	You will have completed the cycle when you are able to 
separate, return to the physical, sit up and note the time, go 
back to the separation process, and return to the the physical a 
second time, all without loss of conscious continuity.  The 
notation of the clock reading will help in this.
	The next step in familiarization is to separate to a 
slightly farther distance, applying the same procedures.  Any 
distance up to ten feet will do.  Always keep mental 
concentration on a single purpose without stray though patterns, 
especially in these extended exercises.  After you have become 
accustomed to the feeling of being more "apart," mentally tell 
yourself that you can see.  Do not think of the act of opening 
your eyes, as this may well transmit you to the physical and 
diminish the vibrational state.  Instead, think of seeing, that 
you can see - and you will see.  There will be no sensation of 
eye opening.  The blackness will just disappear suddenly.  At 
first, your seeing may be dim, as if in half-light, indistinct or 
myopic.  It is not known at present why this is so, but with use, 
your vision will become more sharp.
	The first sight of your physical body lying below you 
should not be unnerving if you have applied the previous 
exercises.  After you are satisfied that it is "you" lying there, 
visually examine the room from the perspective of your position.  
Mentally move slightly in one direction or another, slowly and 
never violently.  Move your arms and legs to reassure yourself of 
your mobility.  Roll around and cavort in the new element if you 
wish, always staying within the prescribed range of the physical.

