Dear Paul,This has not been spell checked or received its final polish
yet.  I am uploading it for "your eyes only," to see if you have any
suggestions to make before I do the last editing sweep.Also, do you
think I should hold up and try to have it professionally published?  --
I did a lot more work on the rewrite than I had ever expected to and it
has turned into something quite different than I had planned
originally.  

               PSYCHIC SELF-DEFENSE                     by =Carlin=
     
     One of the problems which faces the aspiring witch or magician is
an increased sensitivity to and awareness of the "unseen" forces of the
world.  Usually this sensitivity is a delight, but occasionally it
becomes a nightmare -- in the most literal sense of the word.  In
particular, this article deals with what spiritualists and shamans
would refer to as spirit obsession -- a cluster of "symptoms" that
differ from possession, but that still can destroy the integrity of the
victims <AND ALSO> gives some background information on obsession, and
then outlines a few "generic" techniques that will benefit those
subject to this form of "psychic harassment."

                  DEFINING OBSESSION

     Obsession occurs in every nation and subculture,and as a result
every magical subculture has had it's own way of defining and dealing
with the phenomena involved.  Modern medicine, with the exception of
Jungian and "New Age" psychiatry/psychology, tends to dismiss obsession
as either hysteria or budding schizophrenia.  The major religions, for
the most part, now agree with this evaluation.  Of course, the "New
Right" fundamentalists are likely to see a demon in every corner.... 
Either of these approaches tends to disempower the afflicted person by
destroying her/his trust in his own inner processes and making him
dependent on the "expert" who will control the attempt to cure
him/her.  Spiritualists will warn you against psychic attack or
unprotected dealings with the Dead.   Work <?> will tell you that the
problem is either openness to astral influences or rebellion within the
psyche <OR "ALL OF THE ABOVE">.  There is more to being human than the
conscious mind, and unintegrated and unrecognized "complexes" within
the psyche will sometimes have separate agendas that can lead to
"attack from within" if those needs are continually ignored.   My own
tendency <PERHAPS  "BIAS" OR "APPROACH" IS A BETTER WORD> is
philosophically Jungian-to-agnostic,but practically Shamanic.  I tend
to view such"entities" as psychological.  However, the techniques I use
are more effective if the problem is "projected" outward and treated as
if it were the result of attack by a sentient being.  Even if
obsessions are caused by "complexes", a truly well established complex
takes on enough "life" to be regarded as a "secondary personality"
demanding of respect.  If someone is having to live with obsession,
chances are that the person is more interested in resolving the problem
than debating metaphysics.  The methodology outlined below is designed
to work {wh} <WHAT?> the philosophy behind it or not.  These techniques
are "homeopathic" in nature, contrived with the idea of strengthening
the victIm's "psychic immune system" to the point where s/he no longer
can be victimized. Without this increase in inner power, the person can
be temporarily freed from the obsession, but remains vulnerable to
"evil influence" in the future.

              THE BEGINNINGS OF OBSESSION

     Checking a person's personal history, one will usually find that
obsessions begin during periods where stress,negative emotions, or
injury have impaired that person's natural self-protective abilities.
Or where the person has been unprepared or confused and has
intentionally or unintentionally "dropped his/her guard" around someone
already disturbed.  Or where the person has been abused and degraded
since early childhood and is consequently continually open to negative
influences<LAST THREE SENTENCES NEED TO BE "SMOOTHER">. In
psychological terminology, old "complexes" are cathected during periods
when the ego is {founderid)<?> depression weaken the "auric shield"
that normally will protect against "outside influences," as well as the
physical body.  This auric shield can also be "pierced" during "psychic
attacks," leaving a "hole" through which invading astral-organisms can
pass freely. In the same way, "evil spirits" are contagious. Emotional,
sexual, or magical intimacy with someone already obsessed can allow the
entity to pass over to oneself. And an extreme period of rage or
vengefulness can attract like to like, bringing one to the attention of
"vengeful creatures" in the "lower astral."

                 SYMPTOMS OF OBSESSION

     Among the most common symptoms of obsession is a brooding fixation
upon some negative thought or act.  The obsessed person being unable to
"turn off" the voice that urges her/him on to self-destructive or
vindictive acts. The idea that one is the Messiah or the rightful ruler
of the universe, or too low to continue to live may repeatedly intrude
upon consciousness.  To consider much addictive behavior to be the
result of obsession by "earth-bound spirits" or elementals<???>.  No
longer having physical bodies, the "astral low-lifes" push susceptible
living humans into overindulging in whatever the disincarnate entity
still craves.   In other cases, the symptoms take other forms.  Sleep
can be disrupted by repeated nightmares or night terrors.  The
individual may awaken with no memory of the contents of the dream, but
over time will develop insomnia or a fear of sleep.  Especially in
children,the shadows of night can resolve themselves into terrifying
images, and there can be an overwhelming sense of being constantly
watched.  Visual "hallucinations" may force themselves onto the
physical plane or may manifest themselves solely upon the "mind's
eye."  At times the obsession can be relatively benign. Budding
magicians can "pick up hitchhikers" during their initial workings, and
these "creatures" may well content themselves with acting as Guardians
of its cases the "entities" will only "act out"when the magician
re-enters trance or attempts to work on the astral levels<PATCH IT UP>. 
People who work with divinatory techniques without proper training and
grounding are especially vulnerable, with the Ouija board being the
worst offender.  This is one reason that the traditional religions,
which do not want the general populace trained in magical
techniques,urge people away from divinatory practices.  Obsessions that
strike those not trained to magick are usually not so courteous.  In
the more entrenched cases,physical symptoms other than insomnia can
manifest. Especially when one is very tired or ill, the obsession
attempt can escalate and begin to unbalance the homeostatic mechanisms
of the body.  Constipation,sinusitis and migraine headaches are the
more usual manifestations, along with extreme pallor, edema, and mental
confusion and memory loss.  Poltergeist activity is also sometimes
reported.The obsessing entity can also color the {"imothers}<?>.  One
can suddenly find oneself being accused of unsavory attitudes or
persistently misunderstood.  At the same time, truly unsavory
characters will be attracted to the new image and will begin to pop up
out of the woodwork.

                THE MAGICAL APPROACH

     There are many things that one can do if one suspects that
obsession has occurred.  One can treat it as a demon and turn to
spiritual authority for help.  One can treat it as mental illness and
turn to psychiatric explanations.  One can ignore it as much as
possible, or begin to avoid the activities that call it forth.  One can
also "raise one's energies" using self-help techniques such as those
outlined in following paragraphs.Any one of the above reactions
cripples one as a magician, however.  From a ceremonial viewpoint, one
must pass the "Guardian on the Threshold" before one can pass on to the
next level of development.From a Jungian standpoint, one must develop
rapport with and "reintegrate" the rejected {eleom} <?>a Shamanic
standpoint, one must "turn" the entity and either dismiss it or convert
it into a spirit helper<?>.

  THE INNER DIALOGUE

     Step one, using the magical approach, is to become acquainted with
the "entity" and engage it in dialogue.In some instances the entity
will turn out to be malevolent, in other's only "immature" or confused
and angry at being ignored.  Before engaging in this activity, one is
advised to ground and center, and to shield in whatever manner one's
tradition suggests. One is also advised to begin/continue in whatever
other spiritually protective exercises one has faith in.If there is
someone available to work with the afflicted person, have that helper
prepare a list of non-leading(Not "are you a demon?," but "what are
you?") questions.  Then drop into light trance and Then let the other
person ask the questions while the victim answers with the first thing
that pops into his/her head.  In effect, s/he will be voluntarily
"channelling" for the entity {undected}<?> circumstances.If there is no
other person, then the victim must do whatever form of divination or
trance work he/she have developed to contact his/her subconscious. 
Those with vivid imaginations can simply find a quiet moment and ask
"are you there?," personifying the "entity" in the same way that
children create imaginary friends.  Afterwards, no matter what the
technique used, the obsessed person is to be certain that his/her aura
is closed and that s/he is grounded and centered. AFTER "CONTACT" At
this point s/he may have failed to make contact.In which case there is
nothing to him/her to do but repeat the exercise until either it works
or s/he is sure it isn't going to work.  If real contact does not
occur, then s/he might attempt to simply banish "it".  It is possible
that the entity will not answer directly, but will begin to
up<INCREASE> its activity level or bring a string of unusual
circumstances into the obsessed person's life.

     It is more likely, however, the<Y> have begun a dialogue. 
Sometimes "complexes"are immature parts of our own personalities that
will calm down and begin to behave themselves once "they" no longer
feel that they are being ignored.If the obsessing image is that of an
animal, or even an ugly humanoid being, then it may simply be time to
intensify one's spiritual quest and face down one's power animal or
dark side.  Frequently, these allies will attempt to come to the aid of
someone undergoing psychic attack, and because of the general
atmosphere of fear,will be perceived as threats and turned away
themselves.Eventually, in either case the "entity" can either
be"reintegrated" into the personality, or "kept" as a spirit-helper by
those with shamanic leanings.  If one is ALSO under psychic attack, the
ally will probably help in the defense once asked and properly
recognized.

                        "LOST SOULS" AND WORSE 

     On the other hand, "it" may claim to be a spirit or other entity
that requires help.  If the request is not ridiculous <d>o consider
honoring it. The author has personally dealt with a "poltergeist" who
claimed to be a woman who had died of yellow fever over a century ago. 
When questioned, the "spirit" was confused at first, then admitted that
she had died in delirium and had not realized that she was dead until
"awakened" out of her stupor by some young people using a Ouija board. 
When asked what she wanted, the reply was "Pray for me."  The
poltergeist activity ended as soon as prayers were begun, and the last
message received from the spirit was "Thank God, I'm free."  Not being
able to make herself understood on the material plane by any other
means, the "spirit" had resorted to knocking physical objects around to
attract attention.  If someone of "mediumistic" nature had been about,
she might have obsessed that person instead in her bid to gain
attention.  The obsession would have become malevolent only if the
obsessed person repeatedly blocked her out or otherwise caused her to
<?>become cases of obsession in relatively "normal"persons will fall
into one of the first few catagories.In rare cases, the obsessed may
have had his/her attempt at contact met with a voice screaming "DIE,
DIE, DIE."  Or something similar and profane.  This is where the
spiritual practices suggested in the following paragraphs will be of
greatest benefit, followed by professional help or even exorcism, if
necessary.  (Even where an entity seems totally hostile, it is
sometimes possible to "turn" it through raising "light"as described
below.)

               SELF-HELP WITH OBSESSION

     Not everyone is a magician and not everyone wishes to open the
"can of worms" of the subconscious.The following activities are very
useful in "uprooting"spiritual obsession by increasing "light".  In
cases of "mild" obsession only a few of these measures,or a simple
ritual of dismissal, will be sufficient to be rid of the problem.In
more entrenched cases, these techniques should be continued for the
{companied}<?> by Inner Work, depth psychology, or other techniques
that promote self-understanding.  Those suffering from physical
symptoms should also work to strengthen their immune system and improve
their diet and lifestyle.  If possible, the severely afflicted
individual should have a counselor, teacher, or trusted friend monitor
his/her progress "just in case."

                  EXAMPLE TECHNIQUES FOR "RAISING THE LIGHT"

     For a period of three months, the obsessed  should "cleanse"
him/herself daily in whatever manner her/his spiritual tradition
decrees.  Grounding and centering are excellent techniques, as is
renewing oneself through visualizing the aura as strong and untainted. 
One can draw pictures of oneself expelling all darkness or meditate on
the same image.Prayer is useful, as is catching oneself thinking the
old negative thoughts and declaring that one has "taken that out of the
Law" or "averted" the consequences.  If the afflicted has friends who
engage in {spiritua}<?> send him/her mental support and positive
energy.  The individual is also advised to spend time in sacred places
where evil is barred from entering, and to refrain from the company of
persons s/he knows are bad for her/him.If already attuned to ritual
work, the victim can"cleanse" his/her home or have it cleansed by
someone trusted.  Those who have faith in Holy Water should sprinkle
and apply it liberally.  Afterwards, if the obsessed is truly serious
about being rid of a persistent fixation, s/he can burn white candles
constantly while awake and at home.  This will act as a symbol of
the"light" one wishes to draw into one's life.  The most seriously
affected are advised to surround their beds with a protective circle
and never to sleep in a darkened room.  Other religious/protective
symbols can be placed in sight and called upon, and protective incenses
such as sandlewood may be burned.  The important thing is to keep one's
spiritual goal constantly in mind and the"entity<?> one's determination
to improve. This may seem like a great deal of effort, but the effect
will be to "open" the individual to positive influences, even if s/he
doesn't believe in "demons".The individual will be "raising his/her
energy" level to the point where something "dark" cannot even bear to
approach her/him, and keeping the energy "high"for a long enough period
that "it" will become "discouraged" and fade from sight.At the end of
the three months, the "entity" should either be weakened severely from
being "starved" or should be gone.  If it is gone, then a ritually
adept person can do a rededication wherein the formerly obsessed is
declared sealed against recurrences. If the problem still exists, then
the cause may actually be mental illness brought on by a brain
imbalance or early trauma.  In any case, entrenchment of that degree of
severity is beyond the scope of any self-help article to deal with.  In
every case the author has seen or dealt with however, vast improvement
over the three month period<?>.