     PYRAMID POWER AND OTHER EFFECTS from Jeff Johnston
     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

     Some  of my  research was  based on  following experiments  that other
     people  have  performed.  The  one  item  that  got  me started was an
     electron microscopic photograph of a razor blade that had been treated
     in a pyramid. There was a BEFORE  and AFTER shot showing how the metal
     had re-generated  itself at the  crystalline level. I  found this very
     interesting, because to me it seemed like pretty good verification for
     some kind of effect. I  suspect that multiple frequencies are involved
     and  that  is  why  I  branched  out  in  the direction of bio-medical
     effects, i.e.  brainwave activity, some  form that could  be tried out
     with  different  people  under  different  circumstances,  to  see any
     consistancy of effects.

    I did this research and other experiments that I haven't described yet,
    about 8 or 9 years ago. This  pyramid power effect is only part of what
    I     have been tracking  as a larger effect that  works in other areas
    too. This may sound a little crazy but from what I can tell so far from
    my research, it is linked to type of "Earth Energy Effect" (I need some
    sort of  name to try  to describe this)  that has been  used in various
    forms throughout what  we know as "recorded history".  When I have more
    time  available  I  will  attempt  to  write  a  summary of experiments
    performed over the last 20 years. This involves pyramid power and other
    related material.

    One  of my  conclusions is  that  SHAPE  has an  effect on  surrounding
    matter, and that it doesn't have to  be in the exact shape of a pyramid
    to have an  effect. For example, I have  experimented with altering the
    base angle  to apex ratio and  found that other shapes  will work also.
    This led me  into another area in the design  of antennas for capturing
    this type of energy. I built a few prototype designs that were not even
    square and still got some results.  Not always as good results as using
    a standard pyramid, but they did something.

    To answer your question: YES. The longest running experiment that I did
    in this  area was a  preservation experiment that  lasted 18 months.  I
    used a piece of raw pork. If anything is going to go bad, raw pork will
    in about 48 hours. After 18 months there was no evidence of it smelling
    or being bad. Only have 2 min. left will cont. another time.

    The following is a reply to answer some questions.

    In  answer  to  the  question  what  brainwave  states did the subjects
    experience:

    Alpha, Beta  and Theta. In most  subjects alpha was experienced  in the
    first 15 minutes. About half of  the group experienced theta around the
    40 to 50 minute time frame. I  tried several lengths of time, 1 hour, 1
    and 1/2  hours, 2 hours, and  3 hours. I experimented  with a number of
    variables of time length, also the time of day the experiment was done.
    I was  looking for  some connection  to some  research done  in Germany
    starting in  the 1940's dealing with  what had now come  to be known as
    Cosmobiology.  (Today  the  Russians  take  this  quite  seriously  and
    continue doing  research in this  area.) Cosmobiology is  still "alive"
    and well in  Germany today, as well as some  research being done in the
    United States.Cosmobiology deals with cycles of time.

    It  was some  of the  original research  that spawned  another subject,
    biorhythms. Now,  a lot of what  is being done as  biorhythms today has
    kind of  strayed from the  original path, and  the type of  programs or
    information I see on the subject today has been diluted quite a bit and
    as a result a lot of the  accuracy has been lost. So please don't judge
    the  Parent   Cosmobiology,  by  the   Child  Biorhythms  who   due  to
    misunderstanding and lack of applied  methods has caused some people to
    question it's validity.

    For biorhythms to work properly it has to be based on the exact time of
    the  begining of  the cycle.  This means  to the  nearest minute.  Most
    software programs available today are only in the ballpark because they
    are based on a  window of time that is 24 hours  wide. This is too wide
    for accurate results in my  opinion. Consult the original research done
    in  this  area  and  I  think  you  will  see  why.  It's a question of
    methodology. See Rineholt Ebertein et al.

    In answer to  the question: Am I still doing  research into the pyramid
    effect?

    Yes I am, but not just "pyramid"  research. I am in the slow process of
    writing a book that includes some of the information of pyramid effects
    but the  core of the book  material is on some  other subjects that are
    related. These involve some of the things I stumbled across while doing
    research  on the  pyramid effects  and  other  fields that  at first  I
    thought were entirely unrelated.

    In answer to what type of control materials to use:

    I would recommend using  two items as closely matched  as possible. For
    example, If  you are planning  on using razor  blades in an  experiment
    then be sure that both the  control and the experimented blade are from
    the same SET or package from  the same manufacturing facility. If using
    fruit or organic material, then for  example, use one apple but cut the
    apple  in  half  using  one  side  for  control  and  one  side for the
    experiment.

    On the  subject of controls, be  sure that the area  that you are doing
    the experiment in is as closely  matched as possible in temp. humidity,
    light, electromagnetic fields, alignment etc.,  and that the area being
    observed be as secure as possible. The reason I say that is once upon a
    time  I had  an experiment  that ran  for several  weeks and  I got one
    result. I re-ran  it and got another result. I  re-ran it again and got
    another result. Well by this time I was wondering what the problem was,
    and  after  a  lengthly  investigation  found  out  that  someone in my
    household had  been cleaning in  the area and  unknowingly contaminated
    the experiment.  (Drove me crazy trying  to figure it out.)  If you are
    doing preservation experiments,  or any other for that  matter, be sure
    you do not exceed 5% of the volume of the pyramid.

    In answer to the question: Can you eat fruit preserved in a pyramid?

    Yes. I have  eaten lots of things preserved this  way. (This was done 8
    or 9 years  ago, I am still alive  so I guess there are  no known toxic
    effects.) One of my organic subjects  was a carrot that at the begining
    of the experiment was about 9 inches  long by 1 and 1/4 inch around. 18
    months later this carrot was about 3  inches long and about the size of
    a pencil around. I ate it. It tasted fine, had a good flavor and seemed
    to me not to have changed too much except for the water content.

    In  answer  to  the  question:  What  materials  did  I build the large
    meditation pyramid out of?

    Well, all together  I built several hundred pyramids,  out of all sorts
    of  materials, from  1 inch  to  12  feet on  the base.  The meditation
    pyramid that  I did the brainwave  experiments in was made  of aluminum
    tubing 3/4  inch diameter. On  the subject of  materials, I have  found
    that different materials have different  effects. Some of these effects
    can  be  classified  as  "hardcore  scientific"  and  some  are  purely
    subjective states reported by the  person having the experience. A.K.A.
    "a feeling inside".

    If  you are  using metal  materials then  I recommend  not to use young
    plants, because  from what I  can tell, the  effect is too  intense for
    them at a young age. If  you are dealing with experimenting with purely
    biological effects then I recommend  using wood or organic materials. I
    have  found that  in some  circumstances that  if you  are looking  for
    effects  in VLV  (Very Low  Voltage) then  the only  way to  go is pure
    organic materials.

    I think that  covers this batch of  questions. I wish you  well in your
    experiments. The  above reminds me of  an experiment I did  with the 12
    foot based aluminum tubing pyramid that I have found very interesting.

    I built  an insulated  copper coil  of about  120 winds,  and placed it
    about 18 inches down from the apex of the pyramid. I ran the wires down
    the  northeast  side  of  the  pyramid  aligned  to  magnetic  north. I
    connected the wires to a device that sent electrical signals through it
    operating at  2 million cycles  per second at  50,000 volts A.C.  I let
    this  run for  several hours.  I noticed  afterwards that  it seemed to
    magnify  the effect  of the  pyramid, but  what really  got me was that
    there was a faint glow in the dark at the apex. This was related to the
    charging done  before hand. What gave  me part of the  idea to try this
    was a picture I saw, a kirlian photograph that showed a glow around the
    apex of a pyramid.

    As far as research goes, a very  good book on the subject is called The
    Great  Pyramid by  Christopher Bird.  In it  he covers  the history and
    mathematics involved especially in relationship  to the solar system. I
    would recommend  it as one of  the best researched books  in this area.
    This  guy spent  years digging  through libraries  all over  the world,
    using  documents that  are preserved  in archives,  listing some of the
    earliest recorded information available.

    I would be glad to answer more  of your questions as time permits. Just
    leave your  questions as mail  on paranet and  I will collect  them and
    issue another upload. That way everyone  that is interested can see the
    answers to their questions and also so I don't answer the same question
    over and over and over to different people. I am also interested in any
    original research in this area that anyone would care to share with me,
    especially  in the  areas of  geomagnetic disturbances, electromagnetic
    force fields and related subjects. Thank you, Jeff Johnston.

    NOTE FROM THE MAGICIAN Crystal Cave 719-391-1092.

    It has been proven beyond a shadow  of a doubt that the use of aluminum
    in  building pyramids  causes a  distinct  loss  of the  power of  said
    object. It is best to use anything other than this metal.


    EOF>