
                      A LITTLE LESS MISUNDERSTANDING

           (what Christians don't understand about Neopaganism)

                              by J. Brad Hicks

Q:   Are you a witch?
A:        That's actually a tricky question to answer, so let me go about 
     it in a round-about way: what I am is a Neopagan.  Neopaganism is a 
     beautiful, complex religion that is not in opposition to Christianity 
     in any way - just different.  However, some of the people that the 
     Catholic church burned as "witches" were people who practiced 
     something essentially the same as what I do.  In identification with 
     them and the suffering that they went through, some of us (Neopagans) 
     call ourselves witches.
          One expert, P.E.I. Bonewits, says that there are actually several 
     kinds of groups that are called "witches."  Some are people whose 
     ancestors were village healers, herbalists, midwives, and such - many 
     of whom had (or were ascribed to have) mental, or psychic, or magic 
     powers, which were passed down through the family in the form of oral 
     tradition, and Bonewits calls them "Traditional Witches."  Some are 
     people who have deliberately used the term to oppose themselves to 
     Christianity, are practicing "Satanists," and practice (deliberately) 
     most of the practices invented by the Inquisition, and Bonewits calls 
     them "Gothic Witches" or "Neo-Gothic Witches."  Some belong to radical 
     feminist groups, who use the term because they believe that the 
     original Inquisition was primarily anti-women; some of them practice 
     magic, many of them do not - Bonewits calls them "Feminist Witches."  
     But the vast majority (these days) are harmless people who worship God 
     in many forms, including the Lord and the Lady and Mother Earth.  
     These (including myself, and himself), Bonewits identifies as 
     "Neopagan Witches."  
          I hope that this helps more than it confuses.

Q:   Are you a devil worshipper?
A:        I'm tempted to just say, "No!" and leave it at that, but that 
     probably isn't enough.
          Devil worship (including Satanism) is really a Christian heresy.  
     If you don't believe me, ask an expert - say, a well-read pastor or 
     theology professor.  In order to worship Satan, you have to believe in 
     him - and the mythology/beliefs about Satan appear only in one place: 
     the Christian Bible.  So to be a Satanist or a devil worshipper, you 
     have to believe in the accuracy of the Christian Bible, then identify 
     yourself with God's Enemy, proclaim that you are "evil," and then try 
     to "fight against Jesus" or similar nonsense.
          Neopagans do not accept the Christian Bible as a source of truth.  
     As a source of some beautiful poetry, sometimes, or as a source of 
     myth, but not as a source of truth.  Emphatically, we do not believe 
     that God has an Opposite, an evil being trying to destroy God, the 
     world, man, or whatever.  So it is non-sensical to say that Neopagans 
     worship Satan.
          Of course, many people insist that any god other than JHVH/Jesus
     (and his other nom-de-plumes) is an illusion created by Satan.  Well, 
     you're welcome to believe that if you like - but over half of the 
     world's population is going to be unhappy at you.  Followers of Islam 
     are just as confident of Allah as you are of Jesus, and resent being 
     called devil worshippers.  So do I.

Q:   What do Neopagans believe about God?
A:        Neopaganism is a relatively new religion with very, very old 
     roots.  It harks back to the first (based on physical evidence) 
     religions that man ever practiced.  Neopagans worship a variety of 
     symbols from the old religions - the practices of the ancient Celts, 
     the Greeks, the Egyptians, the Romans - and differ with each other 
     over what those symbols really represent.  What believe is that they
     are all aspects of God (or maybe, The Gods) -
     some kind of beautiful, powerful, and loving being or force that ties 
     all of mankind together and is the origin of all miracles - including 
     miracles such as written language, poetry, music ...  

Q:   Do Neopagans have a Bible?
A:        Not most of us.  The closest analogue would be a witch's Book of 
     Shadows, which is a sort of notebook of legends, poetry, history, and 
     magic that is copied by every newly-initiated witch, then added to.  
     But on the whole, even a Book of Shadows isn't what Christians think 
     of as a Bible.  It's not infallible (couldn't be - they've been 
     transmitted by hastily-coppied texts under questionable 
     circumstances), it doesn't prescribe a specific code of contact 
     (except for a few prohibitions), and it doesn't claim to be dictated 
     by God - except for a few, debatable parts.
          Those of us who aren't witches don't even have that much.  
     Neopaganism is a religious system that relies more on the individual 
     than on the Book or the Priest.  One of the principal beliefs of 
     Neopaganism is that no one, not Pope nor Priest nor Elder, has the 
     right to interfere with your relationship to God.  Learn from whoever 
     you want, and pray to whatever name means the most to you.

Q:   Did you say magic?  Do Neopagans believe in the occult?
A:        Cringe.  What a badly worded question - but I hear it all the 
     time.  Neopagans as a rule don't "believe in the occult" - we practice 
     magic.  Magic is simply a way to focus the mental abilities that you 
     were born with, and use them to change the world in positive ways.  
     Magic can also be mixed with worship - in which case it differs very 
     little from Christian prayer.

Q:   But I thought that you said that you weren't a demon-worshipper?
A:        That's right.  Magic and demonology are two different things.  
     Magic you also know as "psychic powers" or "mentallics" or even as 
     "the power of positive thinking" - in essense, the magical world view 
     holds that "reality" is mostly a construct of the human mind, and as 
     such, can be altered by the human mind.  That's all there is to it.

Q:   How do you become a Neopagan?
A:        In a very real sense, nobody every "becomes" a Neopagan.  There 
     are no converts, as no conversion is necessary.  Neopaganism is an 
     attitude towards worship, and either you have it or you don't.
          My case is not atypical.  All of my life, I have been fascinated 
     by the old mythologies.  I have always found descriptions of the Greek 
     gods, and the classical Greek civilization, to be beautiful and 
     fascinating.  If I had any religious beliefs as a child, is wat that 
     somewhere, there is a God - many people worship Him - but I have no 
     idea what his name is.  I set out to find Him, and through an odd 
     combination of circumstances, I because convinced that his Name was 
     Jesus.  But seven years later, I had to admit to myself that Whoever 
     God is, he answers non-Christians' prayers as well as those in the 
     name of Jesus.  In either case, true miracles are rare.  In both 
     cases, the one praying has a devout experience with God.
          After searching my soul, I admitted that I could not tell that I 
     was better off than when I believed in the old gods.  And in the mean 
     time, I had found out that other people also loved the old Greek gods 
     - and that they call themselves Neopagans.  When I realized that what 
     I believed was little or no different that what they believed, I 
     called myself a Neopagan, too.
          The common element for nearly all of us is that nearly all of us 
     already believed these things, before we found out that anyone else 
     did.  "Becoming" a pagan is never a conversion.  It's usually a home-
     coming.  No one ever "brainwashed" me.  I finally relaxed, and stopped 
     struggling against my own conscience.

Q:   I've heard about witches holding orgies and such.  Do you?
A:        No, that sort of thing doesn't appeal to me.  Most of the crap 
     that you've heard about "witch orgies" is nonsense made up by the 
     National Enquirer to sell magazines.
          But I shouldn't be flippant about this, because it underlies a 
     serious question - what kind of morality do Neopagans hold to?  
     
               "Eight words the Wiccan Rede fulfill:
                An it harm none, do what thou will!"
                              from an old Book of Shadows

          That about sums it up.  Neopaganism teaches that it is harmful to 
     yourself (and dangerous) to harm others.  It also teaches that trying 
     to impose your moral standards on somebody else's behaviour is (at 
     least) foolish - and probably dangerous, as you run some serious 
     chance of hurting that person.  Perhaps in a sense Neopagans don't 
     have morality, for as R. A. Wilson said, "There are no commandments
     because there is no Commander anywhere," but Neopagans do have ethics
     - standards for behaviour based on honor and mutual benefit.

Q:   I saw on the news that Neopagans use a star in a circle as their 
     emblem.  Isn't that a Satanic symbol?
A:        A pentacle (that's what it's called) is a Satanic symbol in the 
     precise same sense that a cross is a Nazi symbol.  The German National 
     Socialist Party used an equal-armed cross with four flags attached to 
     it as their emblem.  (Yes, I know - that's a swastika.  Well, before 
     the Nazis made the word common knowledge, people just called it a 
     "bent cross" - it's an old heraldic symbol, and it means the same 
     thing that a normal cross does).  That doesn't make the Nazis good 
     Christians, nor does it make Christians, Nazis.
          In the same sense, Satanists (and some rock groups) use a type of 
     pentacle as their emblem.  That doesn't make them Neopagans, nor does 
     it mean that Neopagans are Satanists (or even rock-and-rollers).

Q:   Are Neopagans opposed to Christianity?
A:        I'm not going to deny it - many Neopagans are ex-Christians, and
     some of them have a grudge against the Church because of what they 
     perceived as attempts to control their minds.  Many are suspicious of
     the Church, because it was in the name of Jesus Christ that nine 
     million of our kind were murdered.
          Neopagans are opposed to anyone who uses force to control the 
     minds of others.  Does that include you?  If not, then it means that 
     Neopagans as such are not opposed to you.  Do you work for the benefit
     of mankind, are you respectful to the Earth?  Then it makes us allies,
     whether or not either of us wants to admit it.

                               - - - - - - - - - -

     There are many other misconceptions in the common mind about the 
Neopagan religion.  Unless you've studied it, read about it from 
sympathetic sources, then you really don't know anything about Neopagan 
history, beliefs, practices, customs, art, science, culture, or magic.  But 
it would take several entire books to teach you, and I already fear that I 
will be accused of trying to win converts (despite what I've said above).  
If you are curious and willing to learn, try some of the following books:

                    Margot Adler, Drawing Down the Moon
                         Starhawk, The Spiral Dance
                        P.E.I. Bonewits, Real Magic
		      Stewart Farrar, What Witches Do.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                