
                           RELAXATION TECHNIQUES III

                                October 8, 1989


                   BEGINNING THE AP EXPERIENCE / REMEMBERING


    Stretch,  take  a good deep stretch, all through your body.  Slide down
    in the afterglow of that stretch, into a relaxed position.

    Holding that afterglow feeling, reflect back on  how  it  feels  to  be
    relaxed,  as  if you were in bed at night on the edges of sleep (though
    this time you stay AWAKE and don't miss the fun).  If you  are  already
    trained  in  some form of meditation or Astral Projection, reflect back
    on one of your BEST experiences of meditation or AP, and how that felt.
    If you are religious, reflect back on how it feels to listen in prayer.

    Whichever experience you reflect back on, remember  it  more  and  more
    completely.   Remember  more  and more clearly what it feels like, what
    elements in the experience go along with that feeling.

    Remembering an experience re-creates the mental and physical  basis  of
    that  experience.   This  is  why you are already virtually back in the
    quality of this experience you are remembering, this experience you are
    remembering more about, more and more clearly.

    While remembering the feeling  and  quality  of  this  experience,  now
    slowly  breathe  in  deeply  and breathe out deeply...3 to 5 times, and
    just let your muscles go a little more with each breath  out,  relaxing
    more deeply.

    Become  more aware of what you are feeling and experiencing within you,
    and become more aware of your surroundings.  It's surprising  how  much
    of  a  mental  picture you can build up of your surroundings, just from
    what you can hear.

    Taking about six seconds to do so, breathe in slowly and very deeply.

    Exhale as slowly and deeply.  With your lungs empty, try to blow out an
    imaginary candle a foot in front of your face - that's how  deeply  you
    should exhale.

    Go  on  inhaling  and  exhaling  as deeply as you can, very slowly, six
    seconds or longer each way.



    May you find the joy and happiness that you deserve...and also  utilize
    this  text  to  your advantage.  If you know someone that could benefit
    from this text, please feel free to give them a copy.

    EOF>
