
 RUNES
I   OVERVIEW
II  HISTORY
III DESCRIPTIONS & MEANINGS

A. Mannaz      B. Gebo             C. Ansuz            D. Othila
E. Uruz        F. Perth            G. Nauthiz          H. Inguz
I. Eihwaz      J. Algiz            K. Fehu             L. Wunjo
M. Jera        N. Kano             O. Teiwaz           P. Berkana
Q. Ehwaz       R. Laguz            S. Hagalaz          T. Raido
U. Thurisaz    V. Dagaz            W. Isa              X. Sowelu
Y. Odin

IV. Layouts used for divination

A. Odin's Rune
B. Three Rune Spread
C. Runic Cross
D. Three Life Spread

I. Overview
Runes are a method of divination similar to the Tarot or the I Ching.  The dif
ference  is  that Runes are a set of 25 stones instead of 78 cards or a set of
sticks  with  patterns.  As with the Tarot, most of the Runes may be rightside
up, or up side down, the meaning differing with the case.  There are also some
Runes  that  can not appear up side down.   In practice, the Runes may be made
of any material; ceramic, stones, sticks, or drawn on cards.  (If anyone
followsthese  directions, and begins to use Runes, please leave me a message
on this   BBS as to your success/failure.)

II. History
Before the Germanic peoples of ancient Western  Europe possessed a true
alpha bet,  they  used  pictorial   symbols to carve into stones their ideas
and thoughts.    The  earliest of these pictorial writings date from about
1300 BC.They  were  probably linked to Sun and Fertility cults.   Among the
signs were parts of  the  human  body,  weapons,   animals  and variations on
the circle, square,  and swastika.   These pictoglyphs later evolved into the
more abstract glyphs   that  were  composed  of lines resembling no particular
objects.   That there  was power endowed to those who were adept at the use
of these glyphs is indicated  by  the  name  given  to  the  glyphs
themselves.  These glyphs were called  Runes, from the  Gothic Runa, meaning
'a secret thing, a mystery.'  The Runic   letter  or  Runastafr was use to
foretell the future by Runemal,  or thecasting of the Runes.  The Runes were
inscribed into tools, weapons, rocks, alters, and other personal  items.
Runes were also used by the  clergy as an alternative to the Latin alphabet.
It is believed that Runes were derived from a  northern Etruscan alphabet
used  among  Italic  tribes in the Eastern Alps.They may have been developed
by people living in  the area of Bohemia.

From  the beginning Runes were used for the casting of lots,  for divination
and to evoke higher powers that might influence  the 'luck' of man. There
were Runes that influenced the  weather, the harvest, curses, the tides, love,
and  healing.

The Practicianer of Runemal was easily recognizable by the  very clothing
they wore.  As the 13th century author of the  'Saga of Erik the Red' said,
"She wore a cloak set with stones  along the hem.  Around her neck and
covering her head she wore a hood lined  with  white catskins.  In one hand
she carried a staff with a  knob  on the end and her belt, holding together
her long dress, hung a charm pouch."   As you can also see from this passage,
many of the Rune Masters were women.  As time wore on, the Runes themselves
became standardized through out Europe.  Although in some places the Runes
numbered as many as 36 oras few as 16. Twenty-four of these were the basic
Runes, or futhark.  The name futhark comes from the first 6 Runes.  There were
3 families of 8 Runes each, named  after the Norse Gods Freyr, Hagal and Tyr.

These three aettir,  as they were called, were:

 Freyr's Eight: Fehu, Uruz, Thurisaz, Ansuz, Raido,Kano, Gebo, Wunjo;
 Hagal's Eight: Hagalaz, Nauthiz, Isa, Jera, Eihwaz, Perth, Algiz, Sowelu;
 Tyr's Eight: Teiwaz, Berkana, Ehwaz, Mannaz, Laguz, Inguz, Othila, Dagaz.

The Anglo-Saxons are credited with spreading Runes and Runecraft through out
Europe.  It is unfortunate that more than 300 years ago the last of the Rune
Masters died taking with them the true art of Rune casting.

In recent years people such as Ralph Blum have tired  to revive the ancient
art of Rune Casting through books, casting  Runes, and through research into
ancient books and manuscripts  for references to Runes.

III Descriptions and Meanings

A. Mannaz:  Two vertical lines with a horizontal 'X' connecting
the top of the two lines so that it appears like a golf flag and
its mirror  image.  Essence  is  water.    Clarity,  willingness
to change is  effective  now.    Become right with  yourself,
then you can be right with others.  Be  yielding, devoted and
moderate.  Only then will you  have a true direction.
Inverted:  If   there is blockage now, it comes from within.
Look to yourself,  not  to  others  at this time.  Stop and
reconsider.   The outer enemy is but a reflection of yourself.

B. Gebo:  An 'X'.  A union is at hand.   However, do not
make this a total  union,  keep  yourself.  Let the
winds of Heaven blow between you and your partner.

Inverted: There is no  inverse.

C. Ansuz:  An 'F' with the arms pointing downward. There  is  a
new  life  unfolding.    Be aware during meetings  with  others.
A connection with the Divine may be at  hand.  Draw from the
well  for  yourself  first,  then  you will have the strength to
draw  from the well for  others.

Inverted:  Failed  communication   may seem to be a block.

Remember,  what  happens  now   is  timely  to your development.
If the well is  clogged, then clean it out.

D.  Othila:  A diamond shape with the two lower sides extended
beyond the  point  at which they meet to form legs. A  shedding
of  old skins is called for.  You may receive benefits, but  it
may  require  you  to  give up something else.  This may  be
difficult  to  do  because part of what you may  have to give up
is a  portion of your background.  Do not be bound by old conditionings.
You may be called  upon  to  take a radical departure  from old ways.
Be totally honest  with yourself now.   Flow is the proper attitude
at this time.

E.  Uruz:    A  tall vertical line on the left, a shorter
vertical line on the right, connected on top by diagonal line.
Similar to a 'squared' small letter 'n'. The  life  you have been
living is at an end.  However, this is not a  Rune  of  ending,
it is instead a Rune of new beginnings.  There  may be  darkness
of a tunnel leading to the new life,  but the light will be
brighter at the end.  Prepare  for the opportunity disguised as a
loss.

Inverted:  You  may  fail  to  take  advantage of the moment.  It
is  possible  that  your  strength may seem to be used  against
you.  The  seeming  failure may come as a minor  or major jolt
depending on your awareness.   Remember,  life is a cycle and you
will again reach this point to  again have this choice.

F.  Perth:  A vertical line on the left with an elongated 'v'
connected to the top from the right, and an elongated inverted
'V' connected to the bottom from the right. Inner changes are
taking place.  Surprises may be in store.  Nothing external
matters here, except as it shows you your inner self.
Inverted: Do not expect too much now.  If you repeat the old,
expect to  suffer.  Do not focus on the past or you will neglect
the true now.  You  may  have  'bad luck' or recognize a specific
block, or challenge.  It depends on your point of view.

G.  Nauthiz:   A vertical line with a diagonal line crossing it.
The diagonal line runs from the upper left to the lower right.
There  is a definite need for restraint.  There will be holdups,
and the need to reconsider your plans carefully.  If you can not
restore  harmony  at  this time, restore balance at least.
consider the uses of adversity.

Inverted: Here is the great teacher disguised as the bringer of
pain and limitation.  Only at the darkest hour do we see just how
bright the  light  is  within ourselves.  Cleansing is needed to
strengthen the  character.   Only after great darkness will we
know and see the true light.

H. Inguz:  Two 'X's stacked on top of each other and touching.
Now  is  the time of great strength when completions can be
finished and  as  a  result  new  beginnings  started.
Difficulties can be  resolved  and clarified.  The butterfly now
emerges from the cocoon. Movement  may  cause  you  to free
yourself from a rut in your life.  There  is  danger,  but like
the King on a chess board, the movement takes you out of check
and danger.

Inverted: There is no inverse.

I.  Eihwaz:    A vertical line with a short diagonal line running
from the top towards  the  lower  right,  and a short diagonal
line running from the bottom towards the upper left. There  may
be  blockages, but even they help our progress.  You may seem  to
be  powerless at this point in time.  Patience and waiting are
called  for.    Growth  is  promoted  through inconvenience and
discomfort.  Wait on the will of the Heavens.
Inverted: There is no inverse.

J. Algiz:  A cross with both ends of the horizontal bar pointing
upward.  Control of the emotions is called for.  Correct actions
are the only  true protection you have.  If you are in pain, or
turbulence, do not try  to  hide  from  it,  for  it is only the
pain and turbulence of progress.

Inverted:  Health  and  associations  are  to  be  examined now.
If persons  are  'using'  you, and you know it in your heart,
then know  that  you  are  the one responsible for the outcome,
not them.  Only  then  will you benefit from it.  Winning may not
be possible, but in losing  there is a form of winning through
learning and the progress takes place.

K. Fehu:  An 'F' with the horizontal lines pointing upward.
Clearly  define  what  it  is  that  you  desire.   Is it wealth
and  possessions,  or  self-rule  and  growth  of  will?   Enjoy
the good fortune  of  now  but  remember  to share it, for the
mark of a well nourished self is the ability to nourish others.

Inverted:  Your  arrows repeatedly miss the target either by an
inch or  a  mile.    Your  ship  has  come  in, but you are at
the stable awaiting  a  good horse.  Observe the situation, and
ask, "What do I need to learn to further my progress?"  You now
have the opportunity to see where your true nourishment lies.

L.  Wunjo:    Shaped  like the letter 'P' with the rounded upper
portion being made from two straight lines like the 'greater
than' sign >. The  shifts that were due are completed, the branch
now bears fruit, and  you can now reap the harvest.  Knowledge
transforms itself into  understanding.    Through  new  clarity
existing ambitions, goal, or  plans may be seen for the limited
undesirables they are.

Inverted:  The harvest is slow to mature.  A difficult passage is
at hand.  As  seen in its true light, everything is a test.
There is  light  mixed  with  the  dark,  but  of  clarity  there
is none now. Examine yourself and your motives.

M. Jera:  A 'greater than' sign (>) above a 'less than' sign (<).
Beneficial outcomes apply to what ever endeavor you have
undertaken. It  may  take  time for no quick results can be
expected.  A span of time  is always involved.  Not even the
farmer can speed the harvest by  tugging  on the young shoots.
At the end of the season, rejoice in abundance.

Inverted: There is no inverse.

N. Kano:  A 'less than' sign (<).  This  is  the  Rune  of  the
opening.  Light now breaks through and  dispells  the clouds.
Through awareness of the light, understanding  is  now available
to you and you may be able to spread the light and understanding
to others.  You are now the center where harmonic and  beneficent
forces meet.

Inverted:  Clouds are now beginning to cover the sun.  A
partnership  may  be  passing  away.    If so, remember that it
is then no longer appropriate or valid for you in this stage of
development.  Remember  however  that  failure  to notice this
passing away will result in a missed  opportunity.   Give up
gladly the old so that the new can be received.

O. Teiwaz:  An upward pointing arrow.  Look  within  and delve
down to the foundations of your being.  Here  you  will  find
your  deepest  needs,  and most powerful resources.  Examine
newly formed partnerships, for there may be great works for you
both  to  perform  together.   This is a Rune of dedication and
perseverance.  Patience may be called for now.  Your real enemy
just might be yourself.

Inverted:   Danger   may  arise  from  hasty  or  illtimed
actions.  Associations  may be short lived, but remember that
they have served their  purpose.    Are outcomes your goal, or
are you focused on the task for its own sake?  Look within for
the answer.

P.  Berkana:   Shaped like the letter 'B', except the the two
rounded portions are made from straight lines, like the 'greater
than' sign >.  Delve  into things deeply, with care and
awareness.  Resistance must  be  dispersed  first,  then  work
may  be  begun.  If you have dark  corners,  clean  them  out
now.    If  you need help to cleanse the  corners, seek an
expert.  Only then can the harvest ripen.

Inverted:  There  is  interference  with  growth  now.   If you
feel  disheartened  for  not taking the right action, relax.  You
may have the  chance  to  act  again.  Examine your motives.  Are
you putting your wants before the wants of others?

Q. Ehwaz:  A large capital letter 'M'. Transitions  and  physical
shifts are occurring now.  Steady growth  and  development
slowly accumulate.  "As I cultivate my own nature, all else
follows."  Face the future with assurance.

Inverted: If movement is blocked, be sure that what you are doing
is correct  action.    There  are  no  missed opportunities; we
have to recognize  that not all opportunities are not for us.
What is yours will come to you.

R. Laguz:  The right half of an upward pointing arrow.
Reorganize  and  re-align.  Contact your intuitive self, and
success  will follow.  Relate to yourself correctly.  Immerse
yourself in the experience of living without evaluating or
understanding.

Inverted:  Do  not  over  reach yourself.  Excessive striving can
be damaging.   Are you really drawing upon your wisdom of
instinct?  Go within yourself and honor your receptive side.

S.  Hagalaz:   Shaped like the letter 'H', with the horizontal
bar at a slight angle slopping to the right. There  is  a  need
to  break  free from constricting circumstances.  There  are
some  things  beyond your control.  Though this Rune has only  an
upright  position,  it operates through reversal.  You may feel
as  though you are waking from a long sleep and take some time
to  come to your full senses.  There may be a loss before there
is a great gain.

Inverted: There is not inverse.

T.  Raido:  Shaped like the letter 'R' with the rounded upper
portions made of two straight lines like the 'greater than' sign
>.  Communication  is addressed by this Rune, especially when it
has two  sides.   Inner worth increases, but we must remember
that we are not intended  to  rely on our power alone.  Ask
guidance from the Powers  above,  and  know  that  in  so  doing,
you will be doing the right action.  Waiting may be just the
right action to take.  If you wait, remove resistance while
waiting.

Inverted:    Personal relationships are accented now.  Break-ups
may  be  more  plentiful  than unions now.  Keep a sense of good
humor no matter what happens.  Even failures may be re-routed
opportunities.

U.  Thurisaz:    A  vertical  line  with a 'greater than' sign
attached to the middle.  The line extends above and below the >
sign. There is work to be done, both within yourself and without.
You may be  ready  to  contact  the  Divine.   You can now see
that which is hidden  insi,  and  know  that  in  so  doing,  you
will be doing the right action.  Waiting may be just the right
action to take.  If you wait,  remove resistance while waiting.

Inverted:    Personal relationships are accented now.  Break-ups
may  be  more  plentiful  than unions now.  Keep a sense of good
humor no matter what happens.  Even failures may be re-routed
opportunities.

U.  Thurisaz:    A  vertical  line  with a 'greater than' sign
attached to the middle.  The line extends above and below the >
sign. There is work to be done, both within yourself and without.
You may  be  ready  to  contact  the  Divine.   You can now see
that which is  hidden  inside of you.  Your life extends before
you and behind you, as though you were standing on top of a high
hill.  Contemplate what you  see.  Observe all, bless it, and
release all of it.  In letting go of the past you reclaim your
power.

Inverted:  Your  progress  accelerates,  but  remember  to pause
for  contemplation.    Integrate the new.  Do not act hastily
now, or you  may regret it.  Impulses must be tempered by
meditation.

V.  Dagaz:    An  elongated 'X' with both the left and right
sides being close into triangles by vertical lines.  A  major
breakthrough is at hand.  The right outcome is inevitable,  but
not  predictable.  Timing is correct.  If followed by the blank
Rune,  the  transformation  may be so total as to portend a
death, a successful  conclusion  to  your passage.  The dawn has
given way to  full  daylight.    But  remember  not  to collapse
yourself into the future, for that would be reckless.

Inverted: There is no inverse.

W. Isa:  A vertical line. Winter  has come upon you.  You seem to
be frozen in ice and can not move.    Positive  accomplishment
is  unlikely now.  A cold wind is reaching you over the ice flows
of outmoded habits.  Try to discover what  it  is that you are
holding onto that prevents the spring from arriving.    Shed the
outdated, and the thaw will follow.  It may be  that you have no
control over the conditions causing the winter.  In  this  case
remember that this is the way of Heaven and Earth; winter follows
autumn,  but  spring  will always follow winter.  Watch for signs
of spring.

Inverted: There is no inverse.

X. Sowelu:  Shaped like a single vertical bolt of lightening.
What  you are striving to be, you already are.  This is the time
for  recharging  and regenerating yourself.  You may have to
retreat from  pressing  situations,  but  make  it  a  retreat
in  strength,  not weakness.    Let  the  Sun  illuminate the
secrets you hid even from yourself.    Always  remember  however,
that by yourself you can do nothing.    Only  when  you  rely  on
the  Divine can you accomplish  anything of greatness.

Inverted: There is no inverse.

Y. Odin:  This is the blank Rune. The  unknowable  and unseen is
active in your life at this time.  In the  beginning  there  was
nothing, and in the end, nothing remains.  Control  can  not be
used on that which does not yet exist.  As with the  Fool in the
Tarot, you may have to leap over the precipice into the void.
But do so empty-handed and with utter faith.  What becons is the
creative power of the unknown.

Inverted: There is no inverse.


IV.  Layouts Used for divinations

A.  Odins Rune.
Place the Runes into a cloth pouch, and shake them up.  Reach
into the pouch  and draw out a single Rune.  Make sure when the
Rune is pulled out, and you turn it over that you do not
accidentally do not invert the Rune.  This Rune will reveal the
crux of your present situation, or the basic answer to your
question.

B.  Three Rune Spread.
Place the Runes into a cloth pouch.  Draw out three Runes and
place them  in  a  horizontal  line  in  front of you.  Reading
from the left to the right, the positions represent; 1) You now,
2) the Challenge ahead of you, and 3)  the  Best  Outcome.
Read the Runes and interpret them relative to their position.

C.  Runic Cross
Place the Runes into a cloth pouch.  Now draw out 6 Runes and
place them  in the following order.  Place the first Rune in the
center of your work area.    This  represents  you  now.  The
second Rune goes to the right of the first  Rune.   This
represents your past.  The third Rune goes to the right of the
first  Rune.  This Rune represents the future.  The forth Rune
goes below the first Rune.  This Rune reveals the foundation of
the situation.  The fifth Rune is placed above the first Rune.
This Rune is the challenge ahead of you.  The  sixth  Rune  goes
above  the  fifth Rune.  This rune represents the best outcome.

D.  Three Life Spread
This spread is useful for exploring past incarnations.  There are
five runes involved in this spread.  Place the Runes into a cloth
pouch, and remove five of them, placing them in the following
order.  The first Rune goes on the right  side  of  you work
area.  This Rune is your birth and childhood of this life.    The
second Rune goes to the left of the first.  This Rune represents
your  present.    The third Rune goes to the left of the second.
This Rune is your  future  in  this life.  The forth Rune goes
below the second Rune.  This Rune  reveals  your  past
incarnation.   The fifth Rune goes above the second Rune.   This
Rune is your future incarnation.  Interpret the Runes relative to
their  position  and  also  relate  them  to  what  must  be
gained  in  each incarnation.

