
/Archive-name: shamanic.visions


/* Written 11:06 am  Sep  6, 1989 by visionary in peg:oz.visionary */
/* ---------- "SHAMANIC VISIONS" ---------- */
SHAMANIC VISIONS - by Michael Ney - Feb 88.
(approx 270 lines) Copyright reserved.
PO Box 566, Milsons Point, 2061. NSW


First published in Southern Crossings - entitled -
DRUMMING UP VISIONS - Modern Shamanic Initiation.

"The drums incessant beat became lost amidst a seemingly resonant
symphony of voices... an enchantingly mysterious tone lead me through
into another reality, a dreamtime landscape of the shamanic
underworld.  Perched on a cliff, my `being' perceived the luminous
valley expanding out before me. Suddenly aware of a presence to my
right, I turned and confronted the eyes and beak of an eagle... so
close its warmth was tangible in comparison to the windy updraft. As
we both alighted with graceful swiftness from the cliff I realised a
magical transformation had occurred... my eagle wings were
strong... my sight so keen...  my thoughts so strange. We soared
towards an unknown destination, surveying all below us with a god-like
perspective... feeling my journey had begun aeons before this present
reality."

Thus read my journal entry, written after a shamanic initiation led by
Leslie Conton - co-worker/associate of Michael Harner (world renowned
authority on shamanism). Leslie presented this event at the
Transpersonal Psychology Conference in Brisbane 1986. She enticed our
`allies' to dance, our visions to gather strength and power and also
gave essential background knowledge to this fascinating tradition,
forming a sound basis for further study.

Later I discovered that "birds always denote rising, activation,
change and vitality. In some traditions birds are symbolic of the
soul; in others the bird is recognized as an intelligent colloborator
with man, being the bearer of celestial messages. For the Buryats of
Siberia, the eagle is the prototype of the shaman. Some Siberian
peoples directly associate the eagle with the Supreme Being and the
Creator of Light. Odin was also called Eagle..... Whether for sport or
spirit, the shaman's ability to fly or the enactment of flight
bespeaks a sublime metaphysical reality that appears to be a common
feature of mystical experiences everywhere. All the cosmos is
accessible when the art of transformation is mastered." - Shaman, The
Wounded Healer by Joan Halifax.

So, that journey, cited above, was my first `conscious' exploration of
a realm and philosophy which had, in hindsight, affected my
unconscious reality from an early age. I remember crying as a small
boy whilst watching a "Deer Dance" performed by a visiting Mexican
Folklore dance troupe. This perplexed my parents but somehow I felt it
not at all unusual... a linking to past life memory
perhaps. Thereafter I was always fascinated by movies with Indians,
and TV shows like Daniel Boone etc. Also, after recently visiting
America and participating in sacred ceremonies, I realised a large
part of my consciousness was deeply rooted in that ancient
tradition... with a feeling akin to coming "home".

Shamanism is currently undergoing an immense revival, involving people
from many countries and various walks of life. The popularization of
American Indian teachings and cultural heritage is only a small
chapter in this overall saga. In fact, the so-called "New Age" may
largely be a returning to the old and wise, respectful reverence for
our sacred Mother Earth... sadly now being raped of resources in the
onslaught of "modern" civilisation.

This "new" awakening stems directly from an earlier tribal reality,
where the shaman was priest, social worker, political advisor and
healer to a closely interconnected community. In many different
cultures worldwide the land and all its beings were viewed as part of
themselves, each with important roles in the unfolding drama of the
universe. The shaman was honoured for his/her powers to intercede and
understand the essential nature of this all-connected mystery and
importantly bring wholeness and healing to the dis-spirited or sick.

Michael Harner (author of The Way of the Shaman) has coined the term
"urban shamanism" for the practise and initiation of western peoples
into an experiential exploration of shamanic realms. Years of academic
study and fieldwork among shamanic cultures, including his own
initiation, eventually led him to the realisation that several
cross-culturally shared motifs and techniques could perhaps be reduced
to a core of elements. These could be understood by almost anyone,
regardless of culture and which could be employed for their own and
others' benefit.(1)

Shamans throughout the world, from Tibet and Mongolia to the Americas,
have been involved in healing for thousands of years, dating back to
paleolithic times. Perhaps as old as consciousness itself, shamanism
is an ancient healing tradition that has reflected the changing
cultures of the surrounding world throughout the ages. This tradition
involves healing through personal transformation as well as healing
our family, community and environment. Central to this is the belief
that we must heal and honour our mother the Earth, who is viewed as a
living, conscious organism. Shamans say this sacred female Goddess,
the earth who nourishes our very existence, must also be nourished
with our prayers and ceremonies.(2) Recently some medical
practitioners in America have been researching and using shamanistic
practises to assist wholistic healing. This is an area that will
undoubtedly reach out further into society as its effectiveness
becomes apparent. In particular instances shamanic healing has even
proven to be "miraculous" ie, Rolling Thunder, (Cherokee Indian
medicine man) in one reported case, irrefutably reversed Multiple
Sclerosis. And surely that is not the only case where medical science
is at a loss to explain the healing phenomena. Rolling Thunder says of
his work "This is the Great Spirit's way. I only act as an agent for
the Great Spirit here; the healing comes from the spirit world."(3)

An integral part of any shaman's power is a fortifying relationship
with an ally. Power exists everywhere, all around us, in
undifferentiated form. Since we need to use the power around us just
to charge our life force, each of us has some sort of ally in order to
be alive.  The ally or helper acts as an intermediary between that
formless power and the physical world. Guardian angels, elementals,
stars, people, plants, birds, animals are mediators between the
spiritual and the material. In healing the ally acts as a step-down
transformer, converting raw power to more manageable energetic
levels. An ally can provide protection from illness or accidents as
well. A shaman gives back to an ally by inviting it to dance, sing and
work through his/her physical body. The shaman moves consciously
through all the layers of manifestation that exist - all times, all
places, all possibilities. The path is lifelong, what is written here
is only the beginning, the initiation. The gates beyond are layers of
consciousness, expanding gradually to include objective eternity.  The
work moves from self, to community, and finally to the planet.(4)

There are probably as many different native names for shamanic
practitioners as there are languages and cultures around the
world. The Yakut called their shamans `ojuna', the mongolian - `buga
baga', the Buryats - `udayan', the Tartars - `Kam', the Lakota -
`wicasa wakan' etc.  Sometimes the names refer to particular abilities
of the shaman such as the Pomo term `Maru' (dreamer) or the copper
Eskimo word `elik' (one who has eyes). Huichol shamans are called
mara'akame, masters of the deer (mara), after their principal spirit
ally.(5)

The Wiradjeri aboriginal medicine men have a high god - Baiame.  Two
great quartz crystals extend from his shoulders to the sky above
him. Baiame sometimes appears to the aborigines in their dreams.  He
causes a sacred waterfall of liquid quartz to pour over their bodies,
absorbing them totally. They later grow wings replacing their
arms. Later the dreamer learns to fly and Baiame sings a piece of
magical quartz into his forehead to enable him to see right into
things. Subsequently an `inner flame' and a heavenly cord are also
incorporated into the body of the new shaman. Thus we see the shaman
acquires new magical powers by encountering the gods as a result of a
special dream journey. The transformations which follow such an
encounter are regarded as initiatory.(6)

"Simply by using the technique of drumming (sonic driving, a
monotonous percussion sound), people from time immemorial have been
able to pass into these realms which are normally reserved for those
approaching death, or for saints. There is a remarkable similarity
between the experiences of the shaman and those of people coming back
from near-death experiences. It's the same terrain, the same kinds of
experiences.  The shaman is known throughout the primitive world as
`conductor of souls', a person who helps the dying and the dead to
reunite with their dead family etc." says Michael Harner in an
interview with Nevill Drury.

For the shaman, all that exists in the revealed world has a living
force within it. This life energy force, like the Polynesian `mana' or
the Sioux `wakanda', is conceived of as a divine force which permeates
all. The knowledge that life is power is the realization of the
shaman. Communion with the purveyors of power is the work of the
shaman. Mastery of that power: this is the attaimnment of the
shaman.(7)

In Sydney recently, Nevill and myself held two public workshops
entitled "A Shamanic Initiation" where folk from all walks of life
were led through to their own personal mythic reality via drum
journeys and rituals. Nevill has been doing this work privately for a
number of years now, continually finding the depth of peoples journeys
to be both exciting and enriching. At our day-long sessions
participants contacted classic shamanic realms with ease, and gained
much personal power and satisfying insight from their allies and the
various events encountered in these realms. We also explored the
healing essence of shamanism in the "Spirit Canoe" where many of the
participants were able to both receive and give gifts of power. It is
truly remarkable how accessible this form of personal transformation
is, with the added bonus of being painless, non-traumatic and yet ever
so empowering.

Here is a brief journey account from a participant.
        "Unlike meditation, which is a stillness, a silence, the
shamans vision flight is a movie in my minds eye. I focus on
commencing the journey through a doorway, then a tunnel, then into the
Light to reveal a landscape with animal and human characters. Then I
relax and watch the vision unfold as a cinema of the `right brain'. I
received extraordinary gifts of personal power. For example I was
given, by an American Indian, a writing stick and ink made from soot
and animal grease to write my words with "Clarity, Vision, Accuracy
and Dynamic". Since then, when I have been committing ideas to paper,
I have remembered this precious gift which positively affirmed those
qualities and continues to give me confidence when approaching each
new task and challenge. I also have flown with a Crow to sacred sites
around the world ie, Delphi, Maccu Picchi and experienced the
exhilaration of flight. Wishing to, but not yet able to, visit Ayres
Rock in person I have now journeyed there, in vision, to sit with my
hands feeling the rock, absorbing Uluru Earth Energy."
        "I was amazed at how easy it is to start the mind-ball rolling
and to involve myself in an unfolding visionary tale, aided by the
drums' enchantment. It was significant to explore the symbols, allies
and gifts. When visiting my special `Pool of Wisdom' I encountered a
Tiger. Staring into each others eyes, I truly connected with the raw
non-urban power of the animal. Approaching my ally he extended his paw
and dropped in my hand a small, clear Crystal - another precious
gift. Reaching through to the clarity of the mythical realm, accessed
by my unconscious mind, I achieve wisdom, healing and self-knowledg
. Since that initial experience in the workshop I can choose to access
that state at anytime. A profound Initiation."  - from Nina Sunday's
vision journal - October 88.

The clarity and depth of symbolism encountered in journeys such as
this is not unusual... but, unfortunately, not yet accessed by very
many in modern society. It is through such journeys and the gathering
of groups to share their experiences that much of the `tribal old
ways' will be revealed, linking us to that ancient wisdom of natural
inter-connection. Thus, I feel shamanism in its many forms can
significantly contribute to peace and wellbeing, both personal and
global.



Sources:-
All Graphics from various issues of Shamans Drum magazine.
(1) Alicia Allen & Dennis Dutton - co-editors of Shaman's Drum magazine.
Issue No 11.
(2) Brant Secunda - Article entitled "Journey To The Heart" from
Shaman's Drum No 2.
(3) Jim Swan - On Rolling Thunder - Shaman's Drum No 3.
(4) Natasha Frazier - "Shamanic Survival Skills" from Shaman's Drum
No 2.
(5) Timothy White - Managing Editor of Shaman's Drum.
(6) Nevill Drury - Nature & health magazine. Vol 9 No 2.
(7) Joan Halifax - Shaman, The Wounded Healer.

MICHAEL NEY - Author/Photographer and Editor of `The Crystal
Visionary' recently co-presented (with Nevill Drury) `A Shamanic
Initiation'.  His other workshop series entitled `The Crystal
Initiation' has been experienced by numerous groups throughout
Australia. Over the last few years Michael has been incorporating more
shamanic and sacred ritual elements in response to an inner calling,
thus deepening the effect of spiritual initiation for all
participants. Michael and Nevill will be conducting more Shamanic
Initiations in 89.

Workshop Enquiries: PO Box 566, Milsons Point 2061. NSW.
Phone (02) 918-6043. or Peg:email "visionary"

Tapes:
Shaman Journey - Nevill Drury, Japetus. ($A17.95 incl post)
One side drumming only, the other side is enhanced by music.
Available from Listen Music - PO Box 996 Chatswood 2067 NSW.

Further Reading:
The Way of the Shaman - Michael Harner. Harper & Row 1980
Shamanism - Mircea Eliade. Princeton University Press 1972
Vision Quest - Nevill Drury. Prism Press 1984.
The Shaman and the Magician - Nevill Drury. Arkana 1987.
Primitive Magic - Ernesto De Martino. Unity Press 1988.
Shamanism (Compilation) - Shirley Nicholson. Quest 1987.
Shaman, Wounded Healer - Joan Halifax. Thames & Hudson 1982

