EG



                          ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                          ³ Divination by Tarot Cards ³
                          ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

                   The Method of the Skyrian Double Crescents

               By Vere Chappell, 26 August 1988CE, Skyros, Greece

        ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

             The ancient art of divination using Tarot cards has come 
        down to us from Europe in the Middle Ages. Today there are 
        hundreds of different types of decks available, and "reading the 
        cards" has become a widespread leisure pursuit for some and a 
        lucrative business for many others. Despite its increasing 
        proliferation as a useful and very powerful tool for creative 
        insight, self-realization and even psychiatric therapy, several 
        popular misconceptions about the nature of Tarot divination must 
        be dispelled before its true benefits can be understood.
             First of all, there is nothing supernatural about the cards. 
        They do not "magically" arrange themselves into meaningful 
        patterns. The mystical practices and rituals associated with 
        their use are well-recognized as psychological techniques to 
        induce creativity and intuitive mental states. All that is 
        required to read the cards is a knowledge of their symbolism and 
        the ability to apply it to events in the world.
             The most common decks consist of 22 Major Arcana and 56 
        Minor Arcana divided into 4 suits, from which the modern pack of 
        playing cards is derived. Each card has a particular meaning 
        associated with it, based upon principles of mystical tradition 
        and the allegorical symbolism of its artwork. Designs vary 
        immensely from deck to deck, but the meanings of the various 
        cards are remarkably consistent across decks.
             The power of the Tarot lies in the nature of its symbolic 
        imagery. Each card represents a basic human archetype which has 
        been identified and refined through the ages. Many principles 
        fundamental to the religious consciousness of mankind are 
        embodied in its system of correspondences, such as the duality of 
        female and male (yin and yang) and the four classical elements of 
        earth, air, fire and water. Its roots extend back to include 
        influences from astrology, alchemy, magick, numerology, kabbalah
        and mythology. Together they form a complete, complex and highly 
        detailed composite picture of the universal spiritual experience 
        which is our heritage.
             If symbolism is the language of the thinking mind, the Tarot 
        provides a catalyst for understanding the fundamental means by 
        which we operate. The way it works is simple: a set of basic 
        symbols with standard meanings is applied to an individual's 
        experience. In looking for correlations with the cards, one's 
        attention is drawn to the ways in which one is in agreement with 
        them. Thus the Tarot provides a direct line of conscious access 
        to the unconscious mind by allowing the explicit expression of 
        feelings and intuition.
             This "tapping in" to the unconscious can be beneficial for 
        determining one's true feelings regarding any matter and acting 
        upon this knowledge. With its firm foundation in psychological 
        principle, the Tarot serves as an important resource for
        consultation and a valid means of spiritual exploration.








                                                                    [ 2 ]


        Origin of the "Skyrian Double Crescents"

             This method was devised on the Aegean island of Skyros, the 
        childhood home of Achilles and the site of Theseus' death 
        according to Greek mythology. It draws upon the principles of 
        astrology, mystical symbolism and folk tradition as well as 
        modern psychology to provide a comprehensive and flexible system 
        of divination for today. The "Double Crescents" refer to the 
        shape of the spread in addition to its allegorical relationship 
        with the cult of the Moon Goddess. The template is based on the
        original crimson Tarot cloth emblazoned in gold with four 
        serpents entwined around a large cup, which is taken from a 
        traditional Skyrian embroidery design signifying "self knowledge" 
        graciously provided by the Faltaits Museum in Skyros Town.
        For readings I prefer the "Renaissance" Tarot deck, with its
        astrological and mythological correspondences, designed by Brian 
        Williams and manufactured by A.G.Muller in Switzerland.


        General Procedure

             Atmosphere is very important. A reading may be done 
        anywhere, but must be quiet and undisturbed. The only 
        participants should be the Seeker who is making an inquiry of the 
        cards and the Reader who assists in their interpretation, 
        accompanied by none other than most trusted friends. The Tarot 
        can reveal one's deepest thoughts and feelings to provide 
        valuable insights, but this process may be inhibited if social 
        concerns are foremost in the Seeker's mind. In particular, third 
        parties involved in the subject of an inquiry should not be 
        present, especially the opposite partner of a potential or actual 
        love affair.
             The Reader of the cards has a great responsibility. The 
        value of the reading depends upon his or her intuition to 
        interpret the meanings of individual cards as applicable to the 
        particular aspects of the inquiry. This requires a calm and 
        detatched attitude and an open and receptive mind. The Reader 
        should be unbiased with regard to the subject of the inquiry, and 
        conscientious enough to decline the reading if he or she is not. 
        The reading is completely confidential and must never be used in 
        any way against the Seeker or for the Reader's selfish motives. 
        Above all, the Reader must always divulge the message of the 
        cards, however unpleasant or inconceivable it may be. The truth 
        cannot be sacrificed for its consequences. Allow some time of 
        meditation before the reading to enter a state of mind conducive 
        to the divination.
             Likewise, the Seeker should be mentally prepared. Take a few 
        moments before the reading to clear your mind, forget all outside 
        concerns, and focus on the subject of the inquiry. Maintain 
        concentration throughout the reading and give adequate thought to 
        each revelation. At first, the reading may be unclear, but with 
        patience and persistence the meaning will unfold as the picture 
        becomes more complete. Cooperate with the Reader and honestly 
        answer his or her questions. The value of your reading depends a 
        great deal on how much you put into it.








                                                                    [ 3 ]



        The Skyrian Double Crescents - Method

             Two readings may be employed in this method. The first 
        reading is used to construct a general picture, consulting the 
        meanings of individual cards relating to different aspects of the 
        Seeker's life. The second reading focuses the inquiry on a 
        specific issue of interest or concern in the Seeker's life, such 
        as "schoolwork" or "love life". If the Seeker has no particular 
        subject in mind, he or she may select one from prominent 
        indications in the first reading. Alternately, the first reading 
        may be skipped altogether if a specific matter is to be 
        investigated.
             The Seeker and Reader should sit facing each other with the 
        card cloth and Tarot deck between them. After a few moments of 
        collection, the Reader shuffles the deck a number of times to 
        "purify" it and then conducts the reading, perhaps with the aid 
        of various references but preferably directly from memory. The 
        cards are placed to face the Reader. Silence should be maintained 
        except to discuss the reading.


        First Reading: The Eight Spheres

           The Seeker shuffles the deck face-down and chooses eight
           cards, which are then placed and read in the following order:

                                   ÚÄ¿     ÚÄ¿
                                   ³2³     ³1³
                                 ÚÄÅÄÙ ÚÄ¿ ÀÄÅÄ¿
                                 ³4³   ³8³   ³3³
                                 ÀÄÅÄ¿ ÀÄÙ ÚÄÅÄÙ
                                   ³6³ ÚÄ¿ ³5³
                                   ÀÄÙ ³7³ ÀÄÙ
                                       ÀÄÙ

           Each position represents a context for the meaning of each
           particular card, as follows:

             1. Sphere of Saturn: Affairs of Work
             2. Sphere of Jupiter: Affairs of Home
             3. Sphere of Mars: Affairs of Conflict
             4. Sphere of Venus: Affairs of Love
             5. Sphere of Mercury: Affairs of Others
             6. Sphere of Luna: Affairs of Self
             7. Sphere of Terra: Affairs of Body
             8. Sphere of Sol: Affairs of Mind

           After this reading has been given, the Seeker may select one
           of the aspects revealed for further elaboration. The card
           chosen is then retained in position number 1 (below) as the 
           "Issue" card in the second reading.











                                                                    [ 4 ]



        Second Reading: The Serpents' Blood

           The Seeker must now concentrate on the particular issue of
           inquiry. The Seeker then shuffles the deck and selects eight
           cards (seven if one has been carried over from the first
           reading) to be placed and read in the following order:

                                   ÚÄ¿     ÚÄ¿
                                   ³6³     ³7³
                                 ÚÄÅÄÙ ÚÄ¿ ÀÄÅÄ¿
                                 ³4³   ³8³   ³5³
                                 ÀÄÅÄ¿ ÀÄÙ ÚÄÅÄÙ
                                   ³2³ ÚÄ¿ ³3³
                                   ÀÄÙ ³1³ ÀÄÙ
                                       ÀÄÙ

             1. The Issue
             2. Where You Are Coming From: Influences from the past
             3. Where You Are Going: Influences in the future
             4. Influence: External factor possibly hidden or unaware
             5. Impact: Effects and consequences on others involved
             6. Emotion: Emotional approach to issue (Right Brain)
             7. Intellect: Rational approach to issue (Left Brain)
             8. The Outcome


             It is strongly advised to do only one or two readings during 
        a given period of inquiry so that full and proper consideration 
        may be given to the issue at hand. Overindulgence carries the 
        danger of losing meaning amidst the interference of many 
        conflicting divinations. For at least several days after the 
        reading, analyze and recognize its relevance in your everyday 
        life. Often valuable new insights can be gained in this manner.

