"Magick    is   the    Highest,   most    Absolute,   and   most   Divine    
Knowledge   of    Natural   Philosophy;    advanced   in  its  works  and
wonderful   operations  by  a   right   understanding  of the  inward and
occult  virtue  of  things;  so  that true Agents being applied to proper
Patients,   strange   and  admirable   effects  will thereby be produced.
Whence   magicians    are    profound   and    diligent   searchers  into
Nature;  they,  because  of  their  skill,   know  how to  anticipate  an
effect, the which to the vulgar shall seem to be a miracle."

               The Goetia of the Lemegeton of King Solomon.
                                  *

  "Whenever  sympathetic   magic  occurs  in   its   pure   unadulterated
form,   it  is   assumed   that  in  nature  one  event  follows  another
necessarily  and  invariably  without the intervention of  any  spiritual
or personal agency.
  Thus  its   fundamental   conception  is   identical   with   that   of 
modern   science;    underlying    the    whole   system   is   a  faith,
implicit   but   real   and   firm,   in   the  order  and  uniformity of
nature.   The   magician  does  not  doubt  that  the  same  causes  will
always  produce  the  same  effects,   that  the   performance   of   the
proper   ceremony    accompanied   by   the   appropriate   spell,   will
inevitably  be  attended  by  the  desired  results,  unless, indeed, his
incantations should  chance  to  be  thwarted  and  foiled  by  the  more
potent  charms  of  another   sorcerer.    He   supplicates   no   higher
power:  he  sues  the  favour  of  no  fickle  and   wayward   being:  he
abases himself before no  awful  deity.   Yet  his  power,  great  as  he
believes  it  to  be,  is  by  no  means arbitrary and unlimited.  He can
wield  it  only  so  long  as  he  strictly  conforms to the rules of his
art, or to what may  be  called  the  laws  of  nature  as  conceived  by
him.   To  neglect  these  rules,  to  break  these  laws in the smallest
particular is to  incur  failure,  and  may  even  expose  the  unskilful
practitioner  himself  to  the  utmost peril.  If he claims a sovereignty
over  nature,  it  is  a constitutional sovereignty rigorously limited in
its  scope  and  excercised  in  exact  conformity  with  ancient  usage.
Thus   the   anology   between   the    magical   and    the   scientific
conceptions   of   the   world   is   close.    In both   of   them   the
succession   of   events   is   perfectly   regular   and  certain, being
determined   by   immutable   laws,    the   operation   of   which   can
be   forseen   and   calculated   precisely;   the   elements of caprice,
of  chance,  and  of  accident  are  banished  from the course of nature.
Both  of  them  open  up  a  seemingly  boundless  vista of possibilities
to  him  who  knows  the  causes  of  things  and  can  touch  the secret
springs  that  set in  motion  the  vast  and  intricate mechanism of the
world.  Hence  the  strong  attraction  which  magic  and  science  alike
have  exercised  on  the   human  mind;   hence  the   powerful  stimulus
that  both  have  given  to  the  pursuit  of  knowledge.   They lure the
weary enquirer,  the  footsore  seeker,  on  through  the  wilderness  of
disappointment  in  the  present   by  their  endless  promises   of  the
future:  they  take  him  up  to  the  top  of an exceeding high mountain
and shew him, beyond the dark  clouds  and  rolling  mist  at  his  feet,
a  vision  of  the  celestial city,  far off, it may be, but radiant with
unearthly splendour, bathed in the light of dreams."

                   Dr. J. G. FRAZER, "The Golden Bough".
                                  *


  "So  far,   therefore,  as  the   public  profession   of   magic   has
been   one   of   the   roads   by   which  men  have  passed  to supreme
power,   it   has   contributed   to   emancipate   mankind    from   the
thraldom of  tradition  and  to  elevate  them   into  a   larger,  freer
life,  with  a  broader   outlook   on  the   world.  This   is  no small
service     rendered    to    humanity.     And    when    we    remember
further   that  in  another   direction   magic   has  paved ther way for
science, we are forced to admit that if the  black  arts  has  done  much
evil, it has also been the  source of  much  good;  that  if  it  is  the
child   of   error,   it   has   been   the    mother   of   freedom  and
truth."

                                                                    Ibid.
                                    *


  "Prove  all  things;    hold  fast  that  which  is  good".
 
                                                                St. Paul.
                                    *


  "Also  the  mantras  and  the spells;   the  obeah  and the  wanga; the
work of the wand and the  work  of  the  sword:   these  he  shall  learn
and teach.
  "He must teach; but he may make severe the ordeals.
  "The word of the Law is THELEMA."

                     LIBER AL vel xxxi:  The Book of the Law.

                                   -----------


This book is for
                                ALL:
for every man, woman, and child.
  My  former  work  has  been  misunderstood,  and  its  scope   limited,
by   my  use  of  technical  terms.   It  has  attracted  only  too  many
dilettanti  and  eccentrics,  weaklings  seeking  in  "Magic"  an  escape
from reality.  I myself  was  first  consciously  drawn  to  the  subject
in  this  way.   And  it  has  repelled  only  too  many  scientific  and
practical minds, such as I most designed to influence.
  But
                               MAGICK
is for
                                ALL.
  I  have  written  this  book  to help  the  Banker,  the  Pugilist, the
Biologist, the Poet,  the  Navvy,  the  Grocer,  the  Factory  Girl,  the
Mathematician,  the  Stenographer,    the   Golfer,    the   Wife,    the
Consul--and   all   the   rest--to   fulfil  themselves  perfectly,  each
in his or her own proper function.
  Let  me  explain  in  a  few  words  how  it came about that I blazoned
the word
                               MAGICK
upon   the   Banner   that  I   have  borne  before   me   all  my  life.
  Before I touched  my teens,   I  was  already  aware  that  I  was  The
Beast  whose  number   is   666.   I  did  not  understand  in  the least
what that implied; it was a passionately ecstatic sense of identity.
  In my third  year  at  Cambridge,   I  devoted  myself  consciously  to
the   Great  Work,   understanding   thereby   the  Work  of  becoming  a
Spiritual Being, free from  the  constraints, accidents,  and  deceptions
of material existence.
  I  found  myself  at  a  loss  for  a  name  to designate my work, just
as   H.P.  Blavatsky   some   years   earlier.   "Theosophy",  "Spiritua-
lism",   "Occultism",   "Mysticism",   all  involved   undesirable   con-
notations.
  I chose therefore the name.
                               "MAGICK"
as  essentially  the  most  sublime,  and actually the most  discredited,
of all the available terms.
  I swore to rehabilitate
                                MAGICK,
to  identify  it  with  my  own  career;   and  to   compel   mankind  to
respect, love, and trust that which they scorned, hated and feared.
I have kept my Word.
  But  the  time  is now  come  for  me  to  carry  my  banner  into  the
thick of the press of human life.
  I must make
                                MAGICK
the essential factor in the life of 
                                 ALL.
  In  presenting  this  book  to  the  world,  I  must  then  explain and
justify   my   position   by  formulating  a  definition of
                                MAGICK
and setting forth its main  principles in such a way that
                                  ALL
may  understand  instantly  that  their  souls,  their lives,   in  every
relation  with   every   other   human   being  and  every  circumstance, 
depend upon
                                 MAGICK
and the right comprehension and right application thereof.

I.  DEFINITION.
                                 MAGICK
is  the  Science  and  Art  of  causing  Change  to  occur   in   confor-
mity with Will.
  ( Illustration:  It  is  my  Will  to inform the World of certain facts
within  my   knowledge.   I   therfore   take   "magical weapons",   pen,
ink,  and  paper;  I  write  "incantations"  --these sentences--  in  the
"magical language"  i.e.  that  which  is  understood  by  the  people  I
wish to instruct;  I call forth  "spirits", such as printers, publishers,
booksellers,  and  so  forth,  and  constrain  them  to convey my message
to those people.   The composition  and  distribution  of  this  book  is
thus an act of
                                  MAGICK
by  which  I  cause  Changes  to  take   place  in  conformity   with  my
Will) *By "intentional" I mean  "willed".   But  even  unintentional  act
so-seeming  are  not  truly  so.   Thus, breathing is an act of the Will-
to-Live.*

II.  POSTULATE.

  ANY    required   Change   may   be   effected   by   the   application
of   the    proper   kind   and   degree   of   Force   in   the   proper
manner  through the proper medium to the proper object.
  ( Illustration:  I  wish  to  prepare  an  ounce  of  Chloride of Gold.
I  must  take  the  right  kind of acid, nitro-hydrochloric and no other,
in sufficient quantity and  of  adequate  strength,  and  place  it, in a
vessel which will not break, leak,  or  corrode,  in  such  a  manner  as
will  not  produce  undesirable  results,  with  the  necessary  quantity
of Gold: and so forth.  Every Change has its own conditions.
  In  the  present  state  of  our  knowledge  and   power   some changes
are not possible in practice; we  cannot  cause  eclipses,  for instance,
or transform  lead into tin,  or  create  men  from  mushrooms.   But  it
is  theoretically  possible  to  cause  in any object any change of which
that  object  is  capable  by  nature;  and the conditions are covered by
the above postulate.)


III.  THEOREMS.

  (1)  Every  intentional  act  is  a  Magical Act.  *In one sense Magick
may be defined as the name given to Science by the vulgar.*
  (Illustration:  See "Definition" above.) 

  (2)  Every successful act has conformed to the postulate.

  (3)  Every failure proves that one or more requirements
of the postulate have not been fulfilled.
  ( Illustrations:  There  may  be failure  to understand  the  case;  as
when a doctor  makes  a  wrong  diagnosis,   and  his  treatment  injures
his  patient.   There  may  be  failure  to  apply  the   right  kind  of
force, as when a rustic tries  to  blow  out  an  electric  light.  There
may  be  failure  to  apply  the  right  degree  of  force,   as  when  a
wrestler has his hold  broken.    There  may  be  failure  to  apply  the
force  in  the  right  manner,  as  when  one  presents  a  cheque at the
wrong  window  of  the  Bank.   There  may  be  failure  to   employ  the
correct  medium,   as  when  Leonardo  da  Vinci  found  his  masterpiece
fade  away.   The  force  may  be  applied  to  an  unsuitable object, as
when one tries to crack a stone, thinking it a nut.)

  (4)  The    first    requisite    for    causing    any    change    is
thorough   qualitative   and    quantitative   understanding    of    the
conditions.
  (Illustration:  The  most  common  cause  of   failure   in   life   is
ignorance  of  one's  own   True Will,   or   of   the  means by which to
fulfil that Will.   A  man  may  fancy  himself  a  painter,   and  waste
his  life  trying  to  become  one;  or  he  may be really a painter, and
yet fail to understand  and  to  measure  the  difficulties  peculiar  to
that carrier.)

  (5)  The    second   requisite   of   causing   any   change   is   the
practical ability to set in right motion the necessary forces.
  (Illustration:  A   banker   may   have   a   perfect  grasp of a given
situation, yet lack the quality of decision,  or  the  assets,  necessary
to take advantage of it.)

  (6)  "Every  man   and   every   woman   is   a   star".   That  is  to
say,  every  human  being  is  intrinsically  an  independent  individual
with his own proper character and proper motion.

  (7)  Every   man   and   every   woman   has   a   course,    depending
partly   on   the   self,    and   partly   on   the environment which is
natural   and   necessary   for   each.   Anyone   who   is   forced from
his  own   course,   either    through    not    understanding   himself,
or  through   external  opposition,   comes   into   conflict   with  the
order of the Universe, and suffers accordingly.
  (Illustration: A  man  may  think it  his duty to act in a certain way,
through   having   made   a   fancy   picture   of   himself,  instead of
investigating  his  actual  nature.   For  example,   a  woman  may  make
herself  miserable  for  life  by  thinking  that  she  prefers  love  to
social concideration,  or  visa  versa.   One  woman  may  stay  with  an
unsympathetic  husband  when  she  would  really  be  happy  in  an attic
with  a   lover,   while   another  may  fool  herself  into  a  romantic
elopment  when   her   only  true   pleasures  are  those of presiding at
fashionable functions.  Again,  a boy's  instinct  may  tell  him  to  go
to  sea,  while  his  parents  insist  on his becoming a doctor.  In such
a case, he will be both unsuccessful and unhappy in medicine.)

  (8)  A man whose  conscious   will   is   at   odds   with   his   True
Will   is   wasting   his   strength.    He   cannot   hope  to influence
his environment efficiently.
  (Illustration:  When  Civil War  rages  in  a  nation,   it  is  in  no
condition   to   undertake  the  invasion  of  other  countries.   A  man
with  cancer  employs  his  nourishment  alike  to  his  own  use  and to
that of the enemy which is a part of himself.  He soon  fails  to  resist
the  pressure  of  his  environment.    In  practical  life, a man who is
doing what his conscience   tells  him  to  be  wrong  will  do  it  very
clumsily.  At first!)

  (9)  A  man  who  is  doing  his  True   Will   has   the   enertia  of
the Universe to assist him.
  (Illustration:  The  first  principle  of  success in evolution is that
the  individual  should  be  true  to  his  own  nature,  and at the same
time adaot himself to his environment.)

  (10)  Nature     is     a     continuous    phenomenon,    though    we
do   not   know    in   all   cases   how   things   are   connected.
  (Illustration:  Human  consciousness  depends  on  the   properties  of
protoplasm,  the  existence  of  which  depends  on  innumerable physical
conditions peculiar to this planet; and  this  planet  is  determined  by
the mechanical  balance  of  the  whole  universe  of  matter.    We  may
then  say  that  our  consciousness  is  causally   connected   with  the
remotest galaxies;  yet  we  do  not  know  even  how  it  arises  from--
or with--the molecular changes in the brain.)

  (11)  Science   enables   us   to   take   advantage   of  the  contin-
uity    of   Nature    by   the   empirical   application   of    certain
principles   whose   interplay    involves   different   orders  of  idea
connected with each other in a way beyond our present comprehension.
  (Illustration: We are  able   to   light   cities   by    rule-of-thumb
methods.   We   do   not   know   what   consciousness is,   or how it is
connected with muscular action;  what  electricity  is  or   how   it  is
connected   with   the   machines  that  generate  it;  and  our  methods
depend   on   calculation   involving   mathematical   ideas   which have
no correspondence in the Universe as   we   know   it.)  *For   instance, 
"irrational", "unreal", and "infinite" expressions.*

  (12)  Man   is   igmorant   of   the   nature   of  his  own  being and
powers.    Even    his    idea    of    his   limitations  is   based  on
experience   of    the    past,    and  every    step  in   his  progress
extends   his  empire.    There  is   therefore  no   reason  to   assign
theoretical limits to what he may be, or to what he may do.
*i.e.,  except--possibly--in  the  case  of  logically  absurd questions,
such as the Schoolmen discussed in connection with "God".*
  (Illustration:  A generation  ago   it   was   supposed   theoretically
inpossible  that  man  should  ever  know  the  chemical  composition  of
the fixed stars.  It is known that our senses  are   adapted  to  receive
only an infinitesimal fraction of the possible rates of vibration.
Modern instruments have enabled us to   detect  some   of  these   supra-
sensibles by indirect methods,  and even  to use their peculiar qualities
in the service of man,  as in  the  case  of  the  rays  of   Hertz   and
Rontgen.   As  Tyndall  said,   man  might  at   any  moment   learn   to
perceive and utilise vibrations of  all  conceivable   and  inconceivable
kinds.   The   question  of   Magick   is  a  question of discovering and
employing hitherto  unknown forces   in  nature.   We   know  that   they
exist,  and  we  cannot   doubt  the   possibility  of mental or physical
instruments capable of bringing us into relation with them.)

  (13)   Every  man   is   more   or   less   aware   that  his individu-
ality    comprises    severa l  orders   of  existence,   even  when   he
maintains   that  his   subtler  principles   are   merely    symptomatic
of the  changes   in  his   gross  vehicle.    A  similar  order  may  be
assumed to extend throughout nature.
  (Illustration: One   does  not   confuse   the  pain  of toothache with
the decay  which  causes  it.   Inanimate   objects   are  sensitive   to
certain  ohysical  forces,  such  as electrical and thermal conductivity;
but   neither   in  us   nor  in   them--so  far as we know--is there any
direct conscious perception of  these  forces.   Imperceptible influences
are  therefore   associated  with   all  material   phenomena;  and there
is no reason  why  we   should  not   work  upon  matter   through  those
subtle  energies   as  we  do  through their material bases.  In fact, we
use   magnetic  force   to  move   iron, and solar radiation to reproduce
images.)

  (14)  Man   is   capable   of   being,   and   using,   anything  which 
he perceives,  for  everything   that   he  perceives  is  in  a  certain
sense  a  part  of  his  being.    He  may  thus  subjugate   the   whole
Universe of which he is conscious to his individual Will.
  (Illustration:   Man  has  used  the  idea   of  God  to   dictate  his
personal  conduct,   to  obtain  power  over  his  fellows, to excuse his
crimes,   and  for  innumerable   other   purposes,  including   that  of
realizing  himself  as  God.   He   has  used  the  irrational and unreal
conceptions  of  mathematics  to   help  him   in  the   construction  of
mechanical   devices.   He  has  used  his  moral  force to influence the
actions even of  wild  animals.    He  has  employed  poetic  genius  for
political purposes.)

  (15)  Every   force   in  the    Universe   is    capable    of   being
transformed   into   any   other   kind   of   force   by  using suitable
means.    There    is    thus    an    inexhaustible    supply   of   any
particular kind of force that we may need.
  (Illustration:    Heat   may  be   transformed  into light and power by
using   it  to   drive   dynamos.   The vibrations of the air may be used
to   kill   men   by   so ordering  them in speech as to inflame war-like
passions.   The   hallucinations   connected    with    the    mysterious
energies of sex result in the perpetuation of the species.)

  (16)  The   application   of   any   given   force   affects   all  the
orders of being  which   exist   in   the   object   to   which   it   is
applied, whichever of those orders is directly affected.
  (Illustration:  If  I  strike   a man with a dagger, his consciousness,
not  his  body  only,  is  affected  by  my  act; although the dagger, as
such,  has   no  direct   relation   therewith.   Similarly, the power of
my thought may so  work   on  the   mind  of   another   person   as   to
produce  far-reaching   physical  changes   in  him, or in others through
him.)

  (17) A   man   may   learn   to   use   any   force   so  as  to  serve
any purpose, by taking advantage of the above theorems.
  (Illustration:  A  man may use a   razor to   make   himself   vigilant
over   his   speech,   by  using it to cut himself whenevr he unguardedly
utters  a  chosen  word.   He  may  serve  the same  purpose by resolving
that every incident of his life  shall remind him of  a particular thing,
making  every  impression  the  starting  point  of a connected series of
thoughts   ending   in   that  thing.   He  might  also  devote his whole
energies to some one  particular  object,  by  resolving  to  do  nothing
at  variance  therewith,  and  to  make  every  act turn to the advantage
of that object.)

  (18)  He  may  attract  to  himself   any   force   of   the   Universe
by   making   himself  a   fit   receptacle   for  it,   establishing   a
connection   with   it,    and   arranging   conditions   so   that   its 
nature compels it to flow toward him.
  (Illustration: If   I   want   pure   water to drink, I dig a well in a
place   where   there   is   underground water; I prevent it from leaking
away;   and   I   arrange   to  take advantage of water's accordance with
the laws of Hydrostatics to fill it.)

  (19)  Man's    sense    of    himself    as    seperate    from,    and
opposed   to,   the   Universe   is   a   bar   to   his   conducting its
currents.  It insulates him.
  (Illustration:   A   popular   leader   is   most   successful  when he
forgets himself,   and   remembers  only   "The   Cause".    Self-seeking
engenders   jealousies   and   schism.   When   the   organs  of the body
assert their presence  otherwise  than by  silent  satisfaction,  it is a
sign   that   they   are  diseased.  The single exception is the organ of
reproduction.   Yet   even  in this case its self-assertion bears witness
to  its  dissatisfaction with itself, since it cannot fulfil its function
until completed by its counterpart in another organism.)

  (20)    Man   can   only   attract    and   employ   the   forces   for
which he is really fitted.
  (Illustration: You   cannot   make  a  silk purse out of a sow's ear. A
true   man   of   science   learns   from   every phenomenon.  But Nature
is dumb to the hypocrite; for in her  ther is nothing false.)
*It is  no objection  that the hypocrite is himself a part of Nature.  He
is  an "endothermic"  product, divided against itself, with a tendency to
break  up.   He  will see his own qualities everywhere, and thus obtain a
radical  misconception  of  phenomena.   Most  religions of the past have
failed  by  expecting  Nature  to  conform  with  their  ideals of proper 
conduct.*

  (21)  There   is   no   limit   to   the   extent   of the relations of
any man with  the   Universe   in   essence;   for   as   soon   as   man
makes   himself   one   with   any   idea   the   means   of  measurement
cease to exist.  But his power  to   utilize   that   force   is  limited
by   his   mantal   power   and   capacity,   and   by  the circumstances
of his human environment.
  (Illustration:   When   a   man   falls   in   love,   the  whole world
becomes,   to him,   nothing   but   love   boundless   and immanent; but
his mystical state is  not  contagious;   his   fellow-men   are   either
amused   or   annoyed.   He   can  only extend to others the effect which
his   love   has   had  upon  himself by means of his mental and physical
qualities.  Thus,  Catullus,  Dante  and  Swinburne  made  their  love  a
mighty   mover  of  mankind  by  virtue  of  their  power  to  put  their
thoughts  on  the  subject  in  musical  and  eloquent  language.  Again,
Cleopatra  and   other  people  in  authority  moulded  the  fortunes  of
many  other  people  by   allowing  love  to  influence  their  political
actions.  The Magician, however well he   succeed   in   making   contact
with  the  secret  sources  of energy in nature, can only use them to the
extent permitted by his intellectual and moral qualities.
Mohammed's  intercourse   with   Gabriel   was   only   effective because
of  his  statesmanship,  soldiership,  and  the  sublimity of his command
of  Arabic.   Hertz's  discovery  of  the  rays  which  we  now  use  for
wireless  telepathy  was  sterile  until  reflected   through  the  minds
and  wills   of  people   who  could   take  his  truth,  and transmit it
to the  world  of  action   by   means   of   mechanical   and   economic
instruments.)

  (22)  Every individual is essentially sufficient to himself.
But   he   is   unsatisfactory   to   himself   until he has  established
himself in his right relation with the Universe.
  (Illustration:  A  microscope,  however  perfect,  is  useless  in  the
hands  of  savages.   A  poet,  however  sublime,   must  impose  himself
upon his generation if   he   is   to   enjoy   (and   even   understand)
himself, as theoretically should be the case.)

  (23)  Magick   is   the   Science   of    understanding   oneself   and
one's conditions.    It    is   the   Art   of   applying   that   under-
standing in action.
  (Illustration: A  golf  club  is  intended  to move a special ball in a
special way in  special   circumstances.   A  Niblick  should  rarely  be
used  on  the  tee,  or  a  Brassie  under  the  bank  of  a bunker.  But
also, the use of any club demands skill and experience.)

  (24)  Every man has an indefeasable right to be what he is.
  (Illustration:  To  insist  that any  one  else shall comply with one's
own standards is to outrage,  not  only  him,  but  oneself,  since  both
parties are equally born of necessity.)

  (25)  Every    man    must   do   Magick   each   time   he   acts   or
even   thinks,   since   a   thought   is   an   internal    act    whose
influence   ultimately    affects   action,   though   it  may   not   do
so at the time.
  (Illustration:   The   least   gesture   causes   in   a   man's    own
body and in the air around him;  it   disturbs   the   balance   of   the
entire  Universe,  and  its  effects  continue  eternally  throughout all
space.   Every  thought,  however  swiftly  suppressed,  has  its  effect
on  the  mind.   It  stands  as  one  of  the  causes of every subsequent
thought, and tends  to  influence  every  subsequent  action.   A  golfer
may  lose  a  few  yards  on  his  drive,  a few more with his second and
third, he may lie on the green six bare inches  too far  from  the  hole;
but the net result of these  trifling  mishaps  is  the  difference  of a
whole  stroke,  and  so  probably  between   halving   and   losing   the 
hole.)

  (26)  Every   man   has   a   right,   the   right   of  self-preserva-
tion, to fulfil himself to  the  utmost. *Men  of  "criminal nature"  are
simply  at  issue  with  their  True Wills.  The murderer has the Will-to
-Live;  and  his  will  to  murder  is  a false will at variance with his 
true  Will,  since  he  risks  death  at  the hands of Society by obeying  
his criminat impulse*
  (Illustration:  A   function   imperfectly   performed   injures,   not
only itself,  but  everything associated with it.  If the heart is afraid
to  beat  for  fear  of  disturbing  the  liver, the liver is starved for
blood, and avenges itself on the  heart  by  upsetting  digestion,  which
disorders respiration, on which cardiac welfare depends.)

  (27)  Every   man   should   make   Magick   the   keynote    of    his
life.  He should learn its laws and live by them.
  (Illustration: The Banker should   discover   the   real   meaning   of
his   existence,   the   real motive which led him to choose that profes-
sion.   He  should  understand  banking  as  a  necessary  factor  in the
economic   existence   of  mankind,  instead  of  as  merely  a  business
whose  objects  are   independent   of   the  general welfare.  He should
learn  to  distinguish  false  values  from  real,  and  to  act  not  on
accidental fluctuations  but on  considerations   of   essential   impor-
tance.   Such  a  banker  will  prove himself superior to others; because
he  will  not  be  an  indivudual  limited  by  transitory  things, but a
force of Nature, as impersonal, impartial and  eternal  as   gravitation,
as  patient  and  irresistible  as  the  tides.   His  system will not be
subject  to  panic,  any  more  than  the  law  of   Inverse  Squares  is
disturbed by Elections.  He will not  be  anxious   about   his   affairs
because  they will not be his;  and  for  that reason  he will be able to
direct   them   with   the  calm, clear-headed confidence of an onlooker,
with  intelligence  unclouded   by  self-interes   and  power  unimpaired
by passion.)

  (28)  Every   man   has   a   right   to   fulfil  his own will without
being   afraid  that   it   may   interfere  with  that   of  others; for
if he is in his proper place, it  is  the   fault   of   others  if  they
interfere with him.
  (Illustration:   If  a   man   like  Napoleon  were  actually appointed
by destiny to   control   Europe,   he   should   not   be   blamed   for
exercising   his   rights.    To   oppose   him   would be an error.  Any
one so doing would have made a   mistake   as   to   his   own   destiny,
except  in  so  far  as  it  might  be  necessary  for  him  to learn the
lessons of defeat.  The sun moves in space without interference.
The   order  of  Nature  provides  an  orbit  for  each  star.   A  clash
proves   that   one   or  the  other has strayed from its course.  But as
to  each  man  that  keeps  his true course, the more firmly he acts, the
less  likely  are  others  to  get  in  his  way.   His example will help
them  to  find  their  own  paths  and  pursue  them.    Every  man  that
becomes a Magician  helps   others  to  do  likewise.   The  more  firmly
and  surely  men  move,  and  the  more  such  action  is excepted as the
standard  of  morality,  the less  will  conflict  and  confusion  hamper
humanity.)
                              ---------- 
       
  I   hope   that   the  above    principles    will    demonstrate    to
                                 ALL
that their welfare, their very existence, is bound up in
                               MAGICK.
I trust that they will understand, not only the reasonableness, but
the necessity of the fundamental truth which I was the means of
giving to mankind:
         "Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law."
I trust that they will  assert  themselves as individually absolute, that
they will grasp the fact that it is their right to assert themselves, and
to  accomplish  the  task  for  which their nature fits them.  Yea, more,
that this is their  duty,   and  that  not  only  to  themselves  but  to
others,  a  duty   founded   upon   universal   necessity,  and not to be
shirked on account of  any  casual  circumstances  of  the  moment  which
may  seem  to  put  such  contact  in  the light of inconvenience or even
of cruelty.
  I   hope   that  the  principles  outlined  above  will  help  them  to
understand   this  book,  and  prevent  them  from  being  dettered  from
its  study  by  the  more  or  less  technical  language  in  which it is
written.
  The essence of
                                 MAGICK
is  simple  enough  in  all conscience.  It is not otherwise with the art
of  goverment.    The  Aim  is  simply  prosperity;  but  the  theory  is
tangled, and the practice beset with briars.
  In the same way
                                 MAGICK
is  merely  to  be and  to do.   I  should add:  "to suffer".  For Magick
is the verb; and it is part of the Training to  use  the  passive  voice.
This is,  however,  a matter  of  Initiation  rather  than  of  Magick in
its ordinary sense.  It is not my fault if being is baffling,  and  doing
desperate!
  Yet,  once  the  above  principles  are firmly fixed in the mind, it is
easy  enough  to  sum  up  the   situation   very   shortly.   One   must
find  out  for  oneself,  and  make  sure  beyond doubt, WHO one is, WHAT
one  is,  WHY  one  is.   This  done,  one  may  put  the  Will  which is
implicit in the "Why"  into  words,  or  rather  into  One  Word.   Being
thus  conscious  of  the  proper  course  to pursue, the next thing is to
understand   the   conditions  necessary  to  following  it  out.   After
that,  one   must   eliminate   from   oneself   every   element alien or
hostile to success,  and  develop   those  parts  of  oneself  which  are
specially needed to control the aforesaid conditions.
  Let   us   make   an   analogy.   A   nation  must  become aware of its
own character before it can be  said  to  exist.   From   that  knowledge
it  must  divine  its  destiny.    It  must  then consider  the political
conditions of the world; how  other  countries  may  help  it  or  hinder
iy.  It  must  then  destroy  in  itself any elements discordant with its
destiny.   Lastly,  it  must develop in itself those qualities which will
enable   it   to  combat   successfully   the  external  conditions which
threaten to oppose  its  purpose.   We  have  had a  recent   example  in
the  case  of   the   young  German  Empire,   which,  knowing itself and
its   will,   disciplined    and  trained itself so that it conquered the
neighbors  which   had  oppressed   it  for   so  many   centuries.   But
after  1866   and   1870,   1914!   It  mistook itself for superhuman, it
willed a thing impossible, it failed  to  eliminate   its   own  internal
jealousies,  it   failed  to understand the conditions of victory, it did
not  train  itself  to  hold  the  sea,  and thus,  having violated every
principle of
                                MAGICK,
it  was  pulled  down  and  broken   into  pieces  by  provincialism  and
democracy, so  that  neither   individual  excellence  nor  civic  virtue
has  yet  availed  to  raise  it  again to that majestic unity which made
so bold a bid for the  mastery  of  the  race of man.*At least it allowed
England to discover its intentions, and  so  to combine the world against
it.*
  The   sincere   student   will  discover,  behind  the symbolic techni-
calities   of   this  book,  a  practical  method  of  making  himself  a
Magician.   The  processes  described  will  enable  him  to discriminate
between  what   he   actually  is,   and  what  he  has  fondly  imagined 
himself  to  be. *Proffesor  Sigmund Freud and his school have, in recent
years, discovered a part of this body of Truth,  which  has  been  taught
for many centuries in the  Sanctuaries of  Initiation.   But  failure  to 
grasp  the  fullness  of  Truth,  especially  that  implied  in  my Sixth 
Theorem (above) and its corollaries, has led him and his  followers  into
the error of admitting that the avowedly suicidal "Censor"  is the proper
arbiter of conduct.  Official psycho-analysis is therefore  committed  to 
upholding a fraud,  although  the  foundation  of  the  science  was  the 
observation  of  the  disastrous effects on the individual of being false 
to  his  Unconscious Self, whose "writting on the wall" in dream language
is  the  record of the sum of the essential tendencies of the true nature
of  the  individual.   The  result  has  been  that  psycho-analysts have
misinterprted life, and announced the absurdity that  every  human  being 
is essentially an  anti-social,  criminal,  and  insane  animal.   It  is 
evident  that the  errors of the Unconscious of which the psycho-analysts
complain  are  neither  more  nor  less  than  the  "original sin" of the 
theologians whom they despise so heartily.*   He must  behold his soul in 
all its awful nakedness, he must not  fear  to  look  on  that  appalling 
actuality.  He must discard the  gaudy  garments  with  which  shame  has 
screened  him;  he  must  accept  the  fact  that  nothing  can  make him
anything but what  he  is.    He  may  lie  to  himself,   drug  himself,
hide himself;  but he is  always  there.   Magick  will  teach  him  that
his  mind  is  playing  him  a traitor.  It is as if a man were told that
tailors'  fashion-plates  were   the   canon   of    human    beauty,  so
that he  tried  to  make  himself formless  and  featureless  like  them,
and shuddered with horror at  the  idea  of  Holbein  making  a  portrait
of  him.   Magick  will  show  him  the  beauty  and  majesty of the self
which he has tried to suppress and disguise.
  Having discovered his identity, he  will  soon  perceive  his  purpose.
Another   process   will   show   him  how  to  make  that  purpose  pure
and  powerful.   He  may  then  learn  how  to  estimate   his   environ-
ment, learn how to make allies,  how  to  make  himself  prevail  against
all powers whose error has caused them to wander across his path.
  In  the  course  of  this  Training,  he  will  learn  to  explore  the
Hidden-Mysteries   of   Nature,   and   to   develop   new   senses   and
faculties  in   himself,   whereby   he   may   communicate   with,   and
control,  Beings  and  Forces  pertaining  to  orders  of existence which
have been hitherto  inaccessible  to  profane  research,   and  available
only to that unscientific and emperical
                                 MAGICK 
(of tradition)  which  I  came  to destroy in order that I might fulifil.
  I send  this  book  into  the  world  that  every  man  and  woman  may
take  hold  of  life  in  the  proper  manner.   It  does  not  matter if
one's present house of  flesh  be  the  hut  of  a  shepherd;  by  virtue
of my
                                 MAGICK
he  shall  be  such  a  shepherd  as David was.  If it be the studio of a
sculptor, he shall so chisel from  himself  the  marble  that  masks  his
idea that he shall be no less a master than Rodin.
  Witness mine hand:
TO MEGA THERION  (in Greek)  (zayin, vav, yod, resh tav):  The Beast 666;
MAGUS 9=2  A.'. A.'.   who   is   The   Word   of   the   Aeon   THELEMA;
whose   name   is   called   V.V.V.V.V.  8=3   A.'. A.'.  in  the City of
the Pyramids; OU MH 7=4; OL SONUF VAORESAGI 6=5,  and   ..... .....   5=6
A.'. A.'. in the Mountain of Abeignus:  but  FRATER PERDUABO in the Outer
Order or the A.'. A.'. and in the World  of men upon the  Earth, Alleiter
Crowley of Trinity College, Cambridge. 

