RADIO NETHERLANDS

PROGRAMME INFORMATION RELEASE
AUGUST-SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER 1990

In this issue:


-       Programme previews


-       The Europe Series


-       Summer Frequency Details


-       Brief Encounters


-       New Publications



Introduction

This bulletin is a run-down of the programmes you can expect
to hear over the next few weeks on Radio Netherlands. This is the ANARC BBS edition of the release, and may differ from releases you see in printed form (released much earlier to meet printing deadlines).  Note that our  broadcast times are given in
UTC, which is the same as Greenwich Mean Time.

Programme Line-Up

With one exception (0830 UTC to the Pacific), all English
broadcasts are 55 minutes long. From Monday - Saturday
inclusive, all transmissions begin with a bulletin of world
news. This is followed by  +Newsline+, a 14 minute review of
current events. The programme includes on-the-spot
correspondent reports, interviews, and commentaries by our
own in-house specialists. The  Newsline  teams includes,
Ginger da Silva, Herrie ten Kate, Robert Green, Harry
Kliphuis, Marijke van de Meer, and Luc Lucas. Special editons
for Africa (aired at 1630, 1830 & 2030 UTC) are prepared by
John Hammond and Jimmy Ocitti. Transmissions at at 0830
(not 9770 kHz), 1130 & 1430 UTC carry a Newsline edition
with Dheera Sujan and Larry Jagan specially catered to the
needs of listeners in Asia. After  Newsline ,  most
transmissions continue with a 31 minute feature programme,
as detailed below.


MONDAY

+Research File+ is one of Europe+s leading science
programmes. The regular producer & host is Anne Blair
Gould, and she is assisted by a team of reporters worldwide.
The programme covers a wide variety of fields including
astronomy, medicine, consumer technology, and the
environment. The programme format is flexible, ranging from
a magazine-style presentation of shorter items (including
updates on earlier stories), to in-depth on-location
documentaries.  Here's a preview of what's on the planning
list:

On August 13th Jonathan Marks takes a fresh look at fungus
(!). The Research File broadcast on August 20th is a special
about SMELLS ...it examines their natural function, and the
reason why eighteenth century scientists collected SMELLS in
bottles? Is there really any psychology behind naming a
perfume  Egoist  or  Poison ? Anne Blair Gould wanders
through a garden of lavenders and roses, peppermint and
fennel, arum lilies and plants that smell of rotting flesh. If you
have a specific question about smells you'd like us to consider
call our answerline on Hilversum 724222 or fax the facts to
Hilversum 724352. You could be part of the War on the Noses,
on the air on August 20th.

The show on August 27th reviews Holland's  Science Line ,
and there's a new look at Evolution, God & computer
programmes.

September 3rd sees a programme in which Anne Blair Gould
examines stress in humans and dolphins. The programme on
September 10th will include material from the British
Association for the Advancement of Science conference in
Swansea, UK. On 17 September Nina Morgan and Jonathan
Marks report from the Research Nuclear Reactor at Petten on
the North Sea Coast.

Tune in on October 1st for  Ringing the Changes . Jonathan
Marks reports from the south of the Netherlands were the
latest technology is being used to make and test carillons.



TUESDAY

Tuesdays are devoted to the arts and culture in Europe.
 Images  keeps abreast of what is happening in opera, ballet
theatre and music with interviews, news and actuality. The
programme is produced by Nevil Gray with an able team of
reporters in Holland and in the various European capitals.
 Images  will keep you informed and entertained.



WEDNESDAY

Wednesday programming contains a variety of features
throughout the year. From now until September 5th we focus
on the Netherlands Antilles and Surinam. We are now in the
final decade of the century of decolonisation. Yet the Kingdom
of the Netherlands still extends to the 6 islands of the
Netherlands Antilles.  While the former colony Surinam
became independent in 1975, the islands of Curaiao, Aruba,
Bonaire, St Maarten, Saba and St. Eustatius are Dutch - for
the time being. Just what that will mean in political terms in
the future is now being negotiated  Also party to the talks are
the governments of Venezuela and France, both +neighbours+
to the Dutch in the Caribbean. A shifting political spectrum,
the War on Drugs, and a new approach to development aid
are on the agenda at these high-level meetings. The story from
within both the young nation of Surinam and the
administrative entity  of the Antilles, is one of a rich mosaic
of communal, linguistic and religious practices. Martha
Hawley will be speaking with cultural, political and social
leaders, along with the citizen in the street, aiming to present
an accurate and honest picture of the region.


On September 12, 19 & 26th we present  Brief Encounters ,
three programmes presented by Pete Myers. Pete is one of the
few people in the English Service who keeps a diary. In over 3
decades of international radio broadcasting, Pete has had
various encounters with the famous and the infamous...like
the job offer he got from Idi Amin, or being screamed at by
Nina Simone at 30,000 feet. Illustrated with anecdotes and
relevant music, make a date with Pete Myers for 30 minutes of
the incredible, and amusing!

Starting October 3rd, Ginger da Silva will be presenting
 Home, Market & Family . It is a series about European
integration. The first programme deals with the history of the
European Community, starting after World War II. It
examines how the institutions and goals have developed from
the days of the  European Coal & Steel Community  to the
current momentum  towards establishing a single market. Will
it really mean a free flow of goods, money, and people
throughout the EEC at the end of 1992. In subsequent
programmes Ginger will travel to each of the 12 member
countries to find how the various members view this fast
evolving community. Will Italian eat more Dutch cheese, will
Belgians still feel Belgians, and is it all a German plot? Join
Ginger to find out.


THURSDAY

Media Network. Jonathan Marks hosts this weekly award-
winning survey of communication developments compiled
with the assistance of over 180 monitors across the globe. The
audio magazine runs on enthusiasm, building on more than 30
years of experience in this field of programming. +Media
Network+ reflects the trends within the media business both in
The Netherlands and around the world.

On August 2nd Jonathan reports on the problems facing radio in Kashmir, and tests going on in Florida to put FM onto AM

On August 23rd we report from the Firato, Amsterdam's audio
and video fair. Has DAT been launched to the consumers in
Europe yet? How eager are the Europeans about HDTV?

The programme on September 6th looks at the jingle and
promo industry in Europe & North America. Jim Cutler and
Jonathan Marks explore both sides of the Atlantic radio
market.

September 13th contains news from the World Radio TV
Handbook editorial office in Amsterdam.

On September 20th, Lou Josephs has an update on the NAB
programmers conference in Boston, and we look at the radio
scene in Ireland. Is it as profitable as it was expected to be.

The edition broadcast on September 28th will include Asian
media news from Victor Goonetilleke.

A new season of Media Network starts on October 4th with a
special programme dedicated to those new to the field of
international radio listening. We'll be passing on tips on
writing to stations, and exploding more myths that surround
the world of  DXing .

In the coming months the programme will tackle topics such as
digital audio from satellites, the high definition TV
developments, and the changes to the radio scene in Eastern
Europe. There is a regular mix of news editions and full-
length documentaries.

FRIDAY

Caribbean, Pacific & North America:   Rembrandt Express  is
the weekly magazine show named after Holland's most
renowned artist. Barry O'Dwyer is currently in the driving
seat to guide the express down new paths. If you're interested
in the social aspects of life, plus a glimpse at the entertainment
scene, make a date for Fridays.

OR

Asian Transmissions Only :  The Asian department team,
including Carl Josephs, Dheera Sujan, and Larry Jagan are the
voices you'll hear regularly on  Asiascan , the weekly 45
minute live magazine show presenting news and features
covering Asia & Europe. Look out for special profiles of
leading Asian personalities.

OR

African Transmissions Only :    Airtime Africa   is a topical
review of events concerning Europe & Africa. Over the next
six months look out for more in-depth documentaries on AIDS
in Africa, the problems of literacy in Africa, drug smuggling,
and refugees. Your host is Veronica Wilson.


SATURDAY

 Over To You  is our listener contact programme. We
welcome reactions to our transmissions, and questions about
Holland. The entire production is spiced with music. We also
phone listeners to get their opinions direct so, if possible,
include a phone number when you write.  You can also try the
24 hr listener answer line.  Dial the international exchange
code (e.g. 011 in USA, 010 in Britain), followed by 31 for
Holland, 35 which is the area code for Hilversum, then the
subscriber number 724222. You then have 90 seconds to leave a
message which may be used on the air.


SUNDAY

All transmissions carry  Happy Station ; family entertainment
with music, birthday mentions, and competitions hosted by
shortwave personality Tom Meyer. This is international
radio's longest running show, having first hit the airwaves in
1928!


BACKGROUND NOTES

Shortwave radio antennas beam most of their energy in a
specific direction. This helps to ensure the best possible signal
strength in the target area. But that doesn't rule out reception
of our broadcasts in other parts of the world. Listeners in
North America can often hear the 1430 UTC transmission
beamed to Asia via Madagascar, for instance. Early risers in
North America often tune in at 1030 UTC.

International radio listening has never been better! Modern
radios making tuning much easier, and the variety of
programmes has improved considerably during the last
decade. Radio Netherlands publishes a number of free
brochures to help introduce newcomers to the world of
international radio. They are non-technical and free. For
details, ask for the  Listeners Services Catalogue .

The 0030 UTC English broadcast to North America is now
available in the United States through the C-SPAN  audio
channel 1 on Saturday and Sunday nights only. If you would
like relays on other evenings, we would be interested to hear
from you. The recently launched service is now being offered
to cable companies across the US. If your cable company offers
C-SPAN television, call your local cable operator and ask
about the availability of the audio service.

RECEIVER SHOPPING LIST

Two years ago we published the last edition of the Receiver
Shopping  List, a free consumer guide to radio receivers on the
market. At the start of 1989 we stopped sending it out because
there were so many changes in the market place that the
information was no longer current, and indeed was by then
misleading. At the same time building work at Radio
Netherlands plus a change to a more sophisticated computer
system meant that our planned release of a new edition never
got off the ground. But that is past tense. The new 12th edition
of the Receiver Shopping List is now back from the printers.

The new list includes price checks made in Holland, Canada,
Britain, the US, Japan, South Africa, New Zealand, and
Australia. From the research it is clear that a huge price rift
across the Atlantic. In the US, for instance, the top of the line
radio from Kenwoood, the R-5000, is around US$ 850.00.
In Britain it's u875, which makes it some 50% dearer.
These giant differences cannot be accounted for simply in
different rates of exchange or extra purchase tax. In the
shopping list we+ve marked as many prices as we can so that if
you have the opportunity to travel you can take advantage of
the price differences. We also discuss warranties too. We+ve
examined shortwave in car radios in more detail with this
edition of the shopping list too.

If you'd like a copy all you have to do is drop us a line, and
we'd be happy to send you one. This edition is certainly a lot
different to previous efforts. At 56 pages its the largest we've
ever compiled, and it has been printed out on a laser printer to
make it as clear as possible to read. Its designed to help you
choose a shortwave radio anywhere between 50 and 5000
dollars, it offers advice on what to look for, and there's a
comprehensive section on finding parts for older sets.

Our next goal in the coming years is to add photos of the
receivers, but that adds to the cost and being a public radio
station we cannot legally ask listeners to pay for services we
provide. We think we've struck a workable compromise
though, and we look forward to your reaction. The address is
simple......English Section, Radio Netherlands, Box 222, 1200
JG Hilversum, The Netherlands. And ask for the Receiver
Shopping List Edition 12.

THE CURRENT SCHEDULE

Radio Netherlands broadcasts daily in 7 languages. As from
the new summer schedule valid from 25th March 1990 we are
dropping the early morning new broadcast to the Middle East.
Once Newsline expands to include regular editions especially
for Asia, we will discontinue broadcasting the Rembrandt
Express programme to Europe on Fridays at 1130 UTC.

We are aware that the timings of our English language
broadcasts are not ideal for a European audience. We are
currently negotiating better technical solutions, since we do
not have the facilities to provide the kind of service we would
like. Shortwave is not the medium to reach English speaking
target areas such as Britain. The Netherlands is too close, and
during the winter months signals don't propagate reliably at
all. Watch future editions of this schedule for further
announcements. In the meantime, the frequencies of 9715 and
5955 kHz remain beamed to Europe at 1130 UTC.

Summer English Schedule
March 25th - September 30th 1990 !

All transmissions are 55 minutes long, except the 0830 UTC
transmission to the Pacific which runs Mon-Sat for 25
minutes.

TRANSMISSIONS HEARD IN NORTH AMERICA
(times in UTC)

1030    Australia/Caribbean.......B11890, B6020
2030    West Africa......................F15560, F13700, F9860
0030    Eastern N. America ........B15560, B6165, F6020
0330    Western N. America........B9590, B6165.

Key: The letters before each frequency indicate the transmitter
site. F= Flevo, The Netherlands. B=Bonaire, Netherlands
Antilles,  M=Madagascar.

You can send messages through the ACE or Pinelands Bulletin
Boards, or via MCI Mail to Jonathan Marks 338-2983. You
can phone the Radio Netherlands answerline on +31 35 724222
(24 hrs a day). You can also write to English Section, Radio
Netherlands, P.O. Box 222, 1200 JG Hilversum, The
Netherlands.


+ 1990 CMC 4 Radio Netherlands
