This program and all of the information contained in it are copyrighted by                         
Grove Enterprises, Inc.  This program is SHAREWARE.  The data contained in
this program is just a sample.  If you are interested in obtaining the data
for your state, write or call Grove for more info.  If you use the program,
and are interested in continuing use of the program, please either call or
write Grove Enterprises at:
Grove Enterprises, Inc.
140 Dog Branch Road
Brasstown, NC  28902-0098
(800) 438-8155
(704) 837-7081

The cost is $9.95, and by registering your software you are subject to
receiving discounts on further purchases of the FCC updates (Regular price
for the database and one state is $59.95, you pay only $49.95).  
You can use VISA/MASTERCARD/DISCOVER or send a check.
                         
                         
                         GROVE FREQUENCY DATABASE 
                               Version 2.0
                              Copyright 1992


SPECIAL NOTES:
You may press F1 at any time for help.
You can edit your files only in the SEARCH mode, not the QUERY or ADD modes.
When you merge two or more states, merging is done alphabetically by city.
Whenever you enter or edit a frequency, you must precede it with K or M for
kilohertz or megahertz, then leading zeroes to use up five spaces before the
decimal point (as in M00150.60000); trailing decimals (like those following 6 in
the example) are filled in automatically when you enter the record. 

RUNNING YOUR PROGRAM FOR THE FIRST TIME

Type FREQ and press [ENTER].  When the menu options appear at the top of the 
screen, the program is ready to run.

NOTE: If you receive the error message, "Can't create workspace" at the main
menu, you have either run out of space during the installation or you don't
have at least 400K of temporary disk space available after loading the
programs. You will need to delete at least 400K of disk space to continue. 

HELP: By pressing the F1 key, the HELP window appears. Move the up and down
arrows to highlight the topic about which you want more information. When you
are done, you can either press [ESC] to return to the program, [ENTER] to
select another topic, or browse through the topics with PgUp or PgDn. 

MENU OPTIONS

You may select the options at the top of the screen with a mouse, by pressing
the highlighted letter, or by moving the left or right arrow key until the
desired option is highlighted; then press [ENTER].

EXIT: Allows you to immediately exit the program to C:\FREQ prompt.

QUERY: This allows complex searches in all data fields (CITY, STATE, etc.) when
you supply the combinations or limits. You cannot add, delete or edit files in
the QUERY mode.

When you press QUERY you will see a new set of menu selections and a
CONDITIONS bar, under which your user-selected conditions will be listed
(there won't be any the first time--you have to select them in the ADD mode).

ADD: Lets you select field(s), operator(s) and connector(s) with which to sort.

     FIELD: Any of the seven headings in a record (city, state, etc.). Select
the  one field number by which you wish to sort first.

     NOTE: TO SEE THE SERVICE CODES PRESS THE F9 KEY (NOT F1 AS SHOWN      ON
THE SCREEN).

     OPERATOR: These commands tell the computer how to link together your
     requirements for a custom search. For example, you can find all police
listings  in a city; or all frequencies between 150 and 174 MHz operated by
one licensee;  or all services likely to respond in a specific state, on a
specific frequency,      to a specific event.

          EQUAL: Finds all records which match your requested data.
          NOT EQUAL: Excludes all records which match your requested data,
          but finds all other records.
          GREATER THAN: Finds all records which alphabetically or
numerically         follow your requested data.
          GREATER OR EQUAL: Same as GREATER THAN, but includes the
          requested data.
          LESS THAN: Finds all records which alphabetically or numerically
          precede your requested data.
          LESS OR EQUAL: Same as LESS THAN, but includes the requested
data.
          CONTAINS: Finds all records which contain partial information you
          know (i.e., 154.??? MHz, ???TOWN, MOTOR????CORP, etc.).

     CONNECTORS: Allows combining of two or more searches with different
     requirements.

          AND: Directs the search to find records which have all requested
data           entries in common.
          OR: Directs the search to find records which have one or more
matching       data entries in common.
          [RETURN]: After setting your condition(s), pressing [ENTER] will
          restore the screen to the previous CONDITIONS menu.

          NOTE: The numbers which precede each condition in the CONDITIONS
          menu are called record numbers. You will choose one number by    
     which to search (see SELECT below).

EDIT: This allows you to edit the ASCII characters that compose your
condition(s) (if you know how to do that!).

SELECT: You may choose one of the conditions you have created by selecting
the number next to it (the Record number). Without a condition being chosen,
the entire database will be shown.

PgUp/PgDn: You may step through the list of conditions using these menu items.

DEL: This allows you to delete any condition(s) you have created by Record
number.

Execute: After selecting--or not selecting--a condition, this command will
bring up the appropriate database files. The speed of your search will depend
upon:
     (a) Temporary disk space (you should limit the number of records that will
be selected as much as possible). 
     (b) Fragmented records (disk data become fragmented with use. This can
be corrected by commercial programs like VOPT from Golden Bow, Norton
Utilities, or SDEFRAG if you are using STACKER). 
     (c) Expanded memory if available.


ADD: This is the simplest way to add your own lists to the official FCC
records. When selected, your screen will show the last record entered; you
then add your own. You cannot delete or edit files in the add mode.

UTILITY: You may print to printer, print to file, view on the monitor what is
about to be printed, pack the deleted records for later recall, reindex the
database, and merge another state with your current database.
 
PRINT: Your printer, if on line, will now print your custom sort.

FILE: Print to file. Performs the same function as PRINT except that the
output is sent to a file in ASCII format, allowing you to use it later in any
other word processing program.

VIEW: Print to screen. You may view on screen the files you are about to print
or copy to a file.   
     
PACK: This compression feature takes all deleted records and packs them into
one file for later restoration if desired. 

REINDEX: Files occasionally become disordered. This feature organizes all
original and added files, and can take from five minutes to an hour or more. 

MERGE: Allows you to add another state to your database. DO NOT MERGE A
STATE THAT IS ALREADY IN YOUR DATABASE OR YOU WILL REPLACE THOSE FILES.
This is the feature which you were told earlier required a different
subdirectory (path). You will now use that new subdirectory (path) as the
location for the new state you want to merge. 

This process can take anywhere from ten minutes to two hours or more. Take
your spouse out to dinner to justify buying this program.

After exiting the program, you may wish to delete the pre-merged subdirectory
so that you will have more disk space.

ORDER: You may arrange the vertical order in which records are presented in
the QUERY and SEARCH modes; for example, instead of alphabetically ordering
by city, you could order numerically by frequency, alphabetically by licensee,
service code, etc.


SEARCH: This is the simplest method to list records by any one common field.
You may add, delete or edit any records in this mode. When you select this
menu option, it will bring up a small list of fields in the middle of your screen. 
Type in the information you want to look for in any ONE of these fields.  If you
type information into more than one of these fields, it will search by the first
information you typed in and ignore the rest.

If you need any help that is not given in this manual, you can call Grove
technical service at (704) 837-7081.

Thanks for your continuing support!

Bill Grove
Manager, Computer Services

   
