
   Description and Supporting 
     
     Documentation for the
        
         POWER GLOVE SERIAL ADAPTER II 
    
    (tentative June 12,1992)





         Author :  Jim Brain
   Organization :  The Association for Computing 
     Machinery at Urbana Champaign
     Urbana, IL   61801
       Special Interest Group :  SIGARCH
    Date :  June 12th,  1992

INTRODUCTION:        
 
 The Power Glove Serial Adapter, Revision 2 (hereto referred to as
the PGSA II, or "the box") provides the microcomputer user with a means to
interface the Mattel Manufactured Nintendo PowerGlove (tm) to his or her
personal system.  The PowerGlove is a 3 dimensional input device capable of
providing the user with X,Y, and Z coordinates to help facilitate 3-D 
software requirements.  In addition, the PGSA II allows the users similar
access to the SEGA(tm) 3-D Shutter Glasses.  With both of these capabilities 
on-board the PGSA II, low cost Virtual Realism and 3 dimensional visualization
systems are a reality.  

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS:
 
 The only hardware requirement is the ability for a user's
system to accept standard RS-232C (EIA-232D) serial data at a bit rate of
9600 bps with 1 stop bit, no parity, and 8 data bits.  The PGSA II comes
with a "standard" female DB25 connector commonly used for RS-232 devices,
although users can change that restriction by using adapters.  The PGSA II
allows the users to gather input from the PowerGlove without having to
know the specifics of the input device at the hardware level.  The interface
box provides all the necessary buffering and translation, so that the user 
can receive up-to-date information on the position of the PowerGlove and  
control the SEGA glasses.

AVAILABILITY:

 Although the PGSA II is currently under development, finished units
will not ship until early in August.  This information is provided for 
potential customers eager to learn more about the use of 3 dimensional
input and output devices, as well as potential software authors drawn to
the idea of using 3 dimensional devices in future product releases.  There
is an installed base of software for the so-called "parallel interface" which
uses the processor on the host computer and special lines on the printer port 
of the host computer to provide a subset of the functions available in the
PGSA II.  While the "parallel" interface has been refined considerably for
users of newer IBM compatible systems, other machine owners have been less
fortunate.  The PGSA II hopes to solve these problems when available.

REQUEST FOR MORE INFORMATION:

 The Internet News Group SCI.VIRTUAL-WORLDS receives up-to-date
information about progress in the areas of 3-D viewing and input devices.
Many readers of this newsgroup, names being too numerous to mention, can 
provides answers to common questions related to the use and development of
devices such as the PGSA II and appropriate software.  Alternately, This
author can be reached at the internet and land address found at the closing
of this document.  Although in its initial stages, low-cost virtual reality
is fast becoming a real reality.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS:

 Although no installed base for the PGSA II exists, it can easily
emulate the Menelli Interface, designed as a project by Ron Menelli, or the 
Abrahms Gentile Entertainment, Inc. (AGE) PGSA Interface.  This provides the 
user with a means to utilize the new inteface box, while waiting for software
to be written that will fully support the new box.  In the area of SEGA   
support, the PGSA II will work with all currently available software 
utilizing RTS control or the newer RTS/DTR control designed by Glen Harris.

PRODUCT CONTENTS:

 The PGSA II system comes standard with adapters to interface 1        
Nintendo PowerGlove and one pair of SEGA shutter glasses.  The system 
terminates with a connector that will accept a standard RS-232 DB-25 male
plug. A complete set of documentation will also be included.  This 
documentation will explian how to use the interface, how to program the 
interface in common languages, how to troubleshoot the interface should
anything go awry, and how to enhance the unit.  The documentation will also
detail the theory involved.  A demonstration disk containing sample programs
and help files will be included, provided the user states his current system
type.

WHAT IS NOT INCLUDED:

 The user must supply his own means for power generation.  A jack has
been included to allow hookup of many low-cost "brick" power units, commonly
referred to as "battery eliminators".  The sytem can be powered by any AC or
DC voltage from 6 volts up to 35 volts.  The user must also supply the needed
PowerGlove and/or SEGA glasses.  The system will function perfectly without
the SEGA glasses installed, but the unit will operate the SEGA glasses in 
only 2 of 4 modes of operation if the glasses are installed alone.  Potential
customers are discouraged from buying this unit solely to operate the
SEGA Glasses.  If the user has an RS-232 interface incompatible with the DB-25
connector, he or she can either buy the unit themselves, or purchase it from
SIGARCH. 

ACCESSORIES:

 Users who wish to enhance the operation of the PGSA II may do so in
many ways.  Although the current version of the controlling software does
not support it, the current hardware and future versions of the software will
include support for up to 2 PowerGloves.  Also, future versions of the 
controlling software will include support for one or more Nintendo U-Force
controllers, a device similar in operation to the PowerGlove.  

SOFTWARE UPGRADES:

 Registered owners of of the PGSA II will receive updates to the 
controller code as they are finished, along with documentation and programs
to load the new code into the interface.  The interface is 
"field-programmable", which means that updates to the controller code can be
made by the end user using special programs.  The user will also be notified  
of other products produced by SIGARCH.

MISCELLANEOUS:

 The PGSA II has been made with flexibility in mind.  The user can
select the following options on the standard board:

 Control SEGA Glasses using RTS direct control.
 Control SEGA Glasses using RTS/DTR direct control.
 Control SEGA Glasses using interface control.
 Select 1 PowerGlove active.
 Select 2 PowerGloves active.
 Select On-board SEGA voltage generation (for 6-9 volt power supplies)
 Select User supplied SEGA voltage gen.  (optional for 10+ V supplies)
 Select High or Low initial baud rate. 

Plus, there are 3 configuration options for users with nonstandard RS-232
requirements. 

COST:

 SIGARCH is still evaluating the retail price for these units, but
factors tentativly support a price of $85.00. SIGARCH cannot guarantee
this price until all evaluation has been finished.  SIGARCH is looking
into the possibility of offering kits of the PGSA II at a reduced price, but
the decision has not been discussed thoroughly.  Note that cost will largely
be determined by the number of people committing to purchase a box upon
manufacture, since SIGARCH will take prepaid orders for the units. A base
of 50 purchasers is required before final production can start.

ABOUT THE ORGANIZATION:

 SIGARCH is a non-profit special interest group (SIG) of the 
Association of Computing Machinery at Urbana Champaign (ACM at UIUC).  The
president is Mr. Mike Schaffstein, and the PGSA II Project Leader is Mr.
Jim Brain.  The PGSA II Project is a fundraising attempt to gather funds for
more such projects and their associated development.  SIGARCH is the Special
Interest Group in Computer Architecture, so this and future projects will 
utilize microprocessor based systems.

ABOUT THE AUTHOR:

 Jim Brain is a senior in Computer Engineering at the University of
Illinois at Urbana Champaign.  He presently lives in Urbana and will seek
a graduate degree in Electrical Engineering upon completion of his bachelor's
degree in May, 1993.  He can be reached at the following addresses:

Jim Brain
305 N Lincoln Avenue N116
Urbana, IL   61801
brain@cs.uiuc.edu

-- 
Nothing is better than Eternal Happiness.             jlb31348@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu
A ham sandwich is better than nothing.                                Jim Brain
Therefore, a ham sandwich is better than eternal happiness.mp