
 An Introduction to Virtual Reality

	As computing moves into the '90s, more and more attention is being 
given to the subject of user interfaces. The interest in the idea of graphic 
user interfaces clearly indicates that people are looking for ways to work 
with their machines that are more direct and intuitive. The past year has 
seen a rise in the number of computer hardware and software producers getting 
into the fray with was has become known as "multimedia", the integration of 
sound and visuals with large-scale memory in the form of optical CD-ROM 
drives. But what lies just around the corner is a quantum leap in thinking 
about how humans and computers interact, and the fact is, it isn't just 
around the corner. In a way, it's here already.
	
	Virtual Reality is a term that has been coined to describe the
concept of immersing the user IN data, rather than just looking at a screen 
and typing, or using a pointer device such as a mouse or trackball. The idea 
of "creating worlds" on a personal computer is not entirely new. Most of you
reading this file probably have a game or two on your hard disk that
simulates a world of some sort, a flight simulator perhaps, maybe a driving/ 
auto racing simulator, a space exploration and combat game, even something as
simple as a chess game that gives you a 3d perspective on a "virtual" 
chessboard.

	Those of you reading this as a result of being in Compuserves
graphics forums already obviously have an interest in creating images that
create a visual environment electronically, whether that interest is geared
toward realistic landscapes in raytracing, or very abstract imagery such as 
can be created using fractals, raytracing, paint programs and image 
processors. The topic here is, how can one take that sort of exploration and 
move it to a new level, where you are so thoroughly immersed in the image 
that it, for the moment, IS reality! The final step is to take that notion 
and add dynamics, animation which moves us into four dimensions; height, 
width, depth, and time.

	Much work is being done right now in this new computer discipline, 
much work has already been done. Soon, no doubt, work that has been strictly 
the domain of military research, university study, and private enterprise R&D 
programs will begin to see the light of day. Already, virtual reality systems 
are being used for things like modeling molecular structures in chemical 
research, architectural modeling, aerodynamics, and (no suprise here) flight 
training.

	The earliest commercial applications of virtual reality technology 
will almost certainly emerge first in two widely differing fields: games, and 
computer aided design. Work is going on at the University of North Carolina, 
NASA, Autodesk, MIT's Media Lab, and many other places, including many 
companies started for the sole purpose of developing this new field.

	What will go on in this section? Since we are, after all, in the 
computer art forum, it may already be apparent. As personal computers evolve 
in leaps and bounds, things that seemed like pure science fiction 15 years 
ago, as the concept of personal computers was first taking shape, are now 
real. In the form of Fractint, we have available a program allowing the 
exploration of the world of mathematics turned into art. Also we have the DKB 
raytracer developed by David Buck, which is developing into a new version 
being done as a collaboration among CIS users, much as Fractint is continually 
being developed. The possibility exists that work of a similar type is 
possible when this sort of talent and interest is brought to bear on this new 
field. For example, there is C source code available for interfacing a Mattel 
Power Glove to IBM-compatible PCs through an RS-232 port. More is needed in 
the area of hardware to make the world of virtual reality accessible to PC 
users. For example, what about a head-mounted display, using miniature 
displays such as those used in pocket-size television sets, in a binocular 
configuration?

	Once hardware is available, software is needed. Anybody out there 
with game design experience would be helpful in creating a dynamic environment 
for virtual reality. Those interested in animation may have much to offer.
The principles involved in fractals and raytracing can be applied to this new 
field to some extent, and the sort of creative spirit and collaborative 
efforts present elsewhere in the graphics forums can certainly make progress 
in this! Anything at all that makes progress into this area is welcome!

	If you don't have the ability to make technical contributions, you 
may be able to offer a great deal anyway. In such new territory, there is 
always a need for those who have imagination, vision, a sense of direction 
and purpose for new technology. If you have a suggestion, fire off a message! 
Somebody out there may have the ability and means to make what may seem 
outlandish on the surface into reality.   
	
	If you have ideas that are too extensive to fit into a short message,
by all means, crank up the word processor and write it up, and upload it. 
This is all fairly new stuff, and things are wide open. Virtual Reality truly 
is the new frontier of computing, all hype aside. It WILL change the face of 
computing profoundly. The key word is not IF, but WHEN. It may seem, in the 
era of VLSI chip technology and multinational electronics corporations, to be 
impossible for basement experimenters and hobbyists to make advances in 
computers. In some sense that may be true. However, it is worth noting that 
personal computers grew out of the efforts of just those sorts of people, 
roughly 15 years ago. It also is very significant that many of you reading 
this are not just amateurs and hobbyists, but computer professionals.

	This may be one of the best places possible to begin the movement of 
Virtual Reality systems into the domain of truly personal computing, something 
available to those without massive financial and technical resources at their 
disposal. Certainly, the results possible with a 12Mhz 286 DOS-based machine 
will not equal the potential of a Cray. That doesn't mean work shouldn't begin 
at that level, however.

	It is worth reflecting on the Altair minicomputer which was made 
available in kit form in the mid '70's. Unimaginably crude and weak by todays 
standards, it fired the imaginations of thousands. You may well be one of 
those people. One of the people who, inspired by what would be regarded today 
as an ugly paperweight, went on to considerably more advanced realms. The 
computer industry as it is today was largely built on the efforts of people 
who realized the full ramifications of that Model T of computers. Today, 
Virtual Reality stands on the beach at Kitty Hawk. It doesn't take much to 
extrapolate the possible future given the advancement of technology and future 
economics of computer hardware. The shop project of a pair of bicycle 
mechanics eventually became the 747, F16, the Learjet. The Altair eventually 
led to things like 386 and 486 based machines with 1024x768 displays capable 
of 256 colors, and more with video boards like the Targa; the Macintosh IIci, 
the Next and Sun workstations.

	Work done now, at this level, can have a major effect on the course 
of development of VR. Not to mention the fact that it could be great fun!
	
	In electronics today, much thought needs to be given to the ideas of
how standards evolve. What determines what form a medium takes can be 
influenced heavily by the thoughts and actions of the people most interested 
in using the technology. Things aren't simply handed down from ivory towers 
in corporations. Work done here, in a public forum, may well have an effect 
on the future shape of virtual reality at a home-user level. The fact is, a 
lot of "major players" are getting involved, or are already involved, in VR 
work; but there are different levels to technology, and while a lot of the 
focus of VR work is devoted to things like new ways to access huge amounts of 
data for businesses and governments, there is also a whole new world to be 
explored in terms of applications for individuals with PCs.
	
	There is a lot to think about entering the world of "cyberspace", not
only hardware and software problems, but philisophical questions as well. What
will we use it for? What IS it exactly? How much of reality is the human
perception of it? 

	The questions ahead are big ones, without a doubt. Too broad to 
address here. It's like asking "what can computers be used for". Major stuff. 
The questions are large, but the main purpose here will be to develop
hardware and software that can be used by the average DOS-based machine. In
the course of such work, there no doubt will be much discussion of the 
purpose of it all. This is important. We'll try to keep it all in balance, 
and keep projects going, I hope. Hopefully, at some point interest and 
activity will justify moving into a new forum devoted entirely to VR, with 
different sections devoted to hardware and software projects and files, as 
well as social and philisophical issues. It all depends on how active this 
section is, and how much interest it draws.

	Jump right in. If you know of people who frequent other forums who 
may be interested and informative, encourage them to stop by. To start things
out we need dialog. I hope we can get things going here soon, and start 
working to bring Virtual Reality to the average computer.

	John Eagan  76130,2225
	91-11-02
