
[1;1H[2J84240 21-DEC 01:19 OSK Applications
     RE: MM/1 Monitors (Re: Msg 84202)
     From: MITHELEN     To: ALWESTON (NR)

The 31kHz mode of the VSC is rather useless, as it HALVES the horizontal
resolution. If you have a REALLY OLD version of windio, you can usr
xmode to set the type to the proper type, and it will go into the VGA mode.

Disclaimer... If you try this on a non-VGA monitor, you will most
likely blow the monitor.
--
 Paul Jerkatis - SandV BBS (708)352-0948: Chicago Area OS-9 Users Group
 UUCP ...{balr|tellab5}!vpnet!sandv.chi.il.us!sysop
 Internet: MITHELEN@Delphi.com

 "Did you ever notice how cheep 99% of all BBS users are?" - Unknown

FORUM>Reply, Add, Read, "?" or Exit> 

No more messages.

Press RETURN to READ NEW Messages.

FORUM>Reply, Add, Read, "?" or Exit> read new nonstop follow
84213 20-DEC 00:46 Standards
     RE: OS9 UG and Standards group (Re: Msg 84085)
     From: WA2EGP       To: JOELHEGBERG

You better not run for the same window as me.  We ain't gonna fit at the
same time (not sure if I'll fit by myself <g>).

-*-

84215 20-DEC 01:24 Standards
     RE: OS9 UG and Standards group (Re: Msg 84097)
     From: WA2EGP       To: NIMITZ

Well, I could commit to paper but I'm afraid that the paper might turn into
rubber at my present state of affairs (grin).

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

84214 20-DEC 01:21 General Information
     RE: CD-I units identical? (Re: Msg 84168)
     From: WA2EGP       To: JES68K (NR)

The Maggie is the same.  I believe it was also the one that RS sold.

-*-

84216 20-DEC 05:29 Games & Graphics
     HELP!
     From: TELENUT      To: ALL


   Does anyone know what is "up" with the entry "MGESHOW FOR MM/1" in the
Games & Graphics area? I need to use it! <g>


   Thanks for any clues,

   Dave

-*-

84217 20-DEC 06:32 OSK Applications
     RE: 14.4 help (Re: Msg 84163)
     From: SCWEGERT     To: KEITHBAUER

 > I just got a new Zoom 14.4 fax modem. I have been able to call out with
 > it and download. My problem is that it does not go on hook when I sign
 > off of a bbs or Delphi. Even in Osterm/68k I have to repeatedly hit
 > the hang up. Sometime it hangs up but only after hitting hangup many

If this is your first time for a high speed modem, you'll be quite surprised
at the length of time it takes for these modems to drop the line once you've
logged off the system. Most manufactures have this parameter set pretty high
to enable the modem to acknowledge all the data in it's buffer.

Look for an S register that controls the "delay before forced disconnect".
With my SupraFax modem that's S38 and it defaults to 20 seconds. Those twenty
seconds can seem an eternity if you're accoustomed to your modem dropping the
line immediately. Experiment with this register and see if things won't
improve.

 > times. Here is the xmode of my T3 port.
 >
 > noupc bsb bsl echo lf null=0 pause pag=24 bsp=08 del=18 eor=0D
 > eof=1B reprint=04 dup=01 psc=17 abort=03 quit=05 bse=08 bell=07
 > type=80 baud=19200 xon=11 xoff=13 tabc=09 tabs=4
 >
 > I have the baud in Osterm set to 19200 and my init string is:
 >
 > AT &K0
 >

Since you're using /t3 and have the type set to 80, you need to be using
hardware handshaking. AT&K3 should be the defualt here.



*- Steve -*


-*-

84227 20-DEC 20:17 OSK Applications
     RE: 14.4 help (Re: Msg 84187)
     From: KEITHBAUER   To: RANDYKWILSON

Randy


 > On the mm/1, you must use /t3 or /t4 for flow control. The first three
 > ports do not properly support it. On the *rare* occasions I use a clone, I
 > use Telix. A friend gave me this copy of Telix already configured for
 > hardware; I do not know what's involved in setting it up.

I do use /t3 on the MM/1 and it works fine other than doing uploads. I think
I have everything set for hardware flow control. What should I look for to
make sure that I do?


I have found that Telix works fine but for some reason the other two programs
I tried on the clone did not.

Thanks

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Keith Bauer

 CIS     :71102,317
 Delphi  :keithbauer
 Internet:kbauer@pids.com

 Via InfoXpress/OSK ver 1.01                     How 'bout them Cowboys!
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


-*-

84228 20-DEC 20:55 OSK Applications
     RE: 14.4 help (Re: Msg 84217)
     From: KEITHBAUER   To: SCWEGERT (NR)

Steve

 > If this is your first time for a high speed modem, you'll be quite
 > surprised at the length of time it takes for these modems to drop the line
 > once you've logged off the system. Most manufactures have this parameter

I now have S38 set to 1 and that has helped.

 >
 > Since you're using /t3 and have the type set to 80, you need to be using
 > hardware handshaking. AT&K3 should be the defualt here.

Okay I have set it to &K3 and I dialed up a BBS (which has all 14.4 modems)
but I connect but nothing else. If I have it set to &K4 I log on fine.

Using &K4 I can log on to Delphi but can't upload. Using &K3 I can't even
get on to Delphi. Please send me your INIT string. Here are the edition
numbers of my modules:

SC68681 edition 32

Do you have different INIT strings for IX and your term program?

I am also having problems getting on to CIS via IX. I connect but then
it gets dropped.

Thanks

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Keith Bauer

 CIS     :71102,317
 Delphi  :keithbauer
 Internet:kbauer@pids.com

 Via InfoXpress/OSK ver 1.01                     How 'bout them Cowboys!
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


-*-

84230 20-DEC 21:51 OSK Applications
     RE: 14.4 help (Re: Msg 84227)
     From: RANDYKWILSON To: KEITHBAUER (NR)

Keith, I remembered that you had included an xmode in the orig post, so I
just backed up and reread it. You most certainly did sayyou were using /t3.
I totally forgot. Sorry about that.

  You have hardware set correctly in the xmode (type=80). I can only think
of two things. Having never seen/used TasCom (OSTerm), I can not say for
sure that it doesn't mangle the type byte. I know Terminal1.0 and ATerm2.6
do not (after proper config, of course). Might try one of those. The other
possibility is an outdated driver. My sc68681 is ed# 29, not guarranteed
to bethe latest. It works. (and I probably out to go back and see if you
alreadyposted this info :).

Oh!! one more idea... paddle board jumperings. These can be set to force
DTR and RTS always ??? (supposedly true, but I believeit's actually false).
Looking at the paddle from the front of the computer, you should have:
blank, jumped, blank, jumped, cable connector   : | : |   [=======].
The ones by the db9 are all longitudal ||||||.

I see to remember having to puzzle out the jumper settings when I (finallY)
got my paddle. They were orig set for /t1 use. (it was  my /t1 paddle)


 Randy

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

84218 20-DEC 12:38 General Information
     RE: OSK Systems (Re: Msg 84208)
     From: MROWEN01     To: DSRTFOX

Your approach makes sense regarding the cheap OSK systems. The PT boards
you talked about, do you have to purchase a hard drive interface for these?
Also, I have read alot about people wanting to port G windows to the MM/1. Is
this port required because the MM/1 has a different video configuration? If
all of these systems run OSK / what other reason for the port could there be?
If I build an OSK system  like we're talking about, can it run G windows or
K windows?

-Mike

-*-

84222 20-DEC 19:18 General Information
     RE: OSK Systems (Re: Msg 84218)
     From: DSRTFOX      To: MROWEN01 (NR)

The system would be capable of running G-Windows as sold by Delmar. It would be
a little slow though. You need video graphics support of at least 400x600 for
G-Windows. That means CGA color (such as a Magnavox 8CM515 or 1CM135) is out.
I believe a Hercules graphics compatible card (monochrome graphics) would work
with no problems... at least it DOES have the necessary resoltuion. K-Windows
MIGHT be ported to the PT68K motherboards later next year (94)... I haven't
heard any definite word, just that a port was being worked on/considered.
The reasons for a port is that the video and other hardware is different on
each platform (motherboard). OS-9 itself doesn't care WHAT platform it runs on,
the hardware drivers do all the talking directly to the hardware. THAT is the
problem... or rather the reason for a port. The drivers that go with G-Windows
have to know HOW to talk to the different hardware. I may be a little off, or
rather the answer may be over simplified, but I don't know enough to give a
more technical explanation. But as you surmised, the VSC video used by the MM/1
has to be handled by G-Windows, so G-Windows has to know how to pass
instructions to the VSC, or any other type video (mono, RGB  VGA, etc.
)


-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

84219 20-DEC 12:56 Programmers Den
     C library
     From: MROWEN01     To: ALL


I asked this about six months ago, but I don't remember the answer. I want to
write some C code to use windows under multi-vue. I can't seem to locate the
library for the functions as outlined in the multi-vue manual. Are these
functions supplied with multi-vue or are they system calls that are built into
multi-vue? I'm a novice at this, so any help is welcome. This is my first go
at manipulating windows from 'C'.

Thanks

-Mike Rowen

-*-

84224 20-DEC 19:27 Programmers Den
     RE: C library (Re: Msg 84219)
     From: PHILSCHERER  To: MROWEN01 (NR)

Hi Mike--There is a better CGFX library here on the Database. It is called
Cgfx7 and Ithink it's by Mike Sweet. It should have everything you need.
<Phil>

-*-

84226 20-DEC 20:01 Programmers Den
     RE: C library (Re: Msg 84219)
     From: COLORSYSTEMS To: MROWEN01 (NR)

The C functions documented in the MultiVue manual are in a function library
cgfx.l which comes on the Development Pack disk. Go figure.

Don't fret, there is a shareware replacement somewhere here in the libs
written by Mike Sweet (DODGECOLT). Shouldn't be too hard to find.

------------------------------------
 Zack C Sessions
 ColorSystems

 "I am Homer of Borg, prepare to be assimi ... OOOOHHH, DOUGHNUTS!"


-*-

84231 20-DEC 22:01 Programmers Den
     RE: C library (Re: Msg 84226)
     From: EMTWO        To: MROWEN01 (NR)

 There is also a 'Skeleton' file, uploaded by markgriffith, which will
show you how to set up the windows, interrupts, mouse tracking, etc...

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

84220 20-DEC 18:12 Applications (6809)
     Bible Accordence Ready
     From: JOHNBAER     To: REVWCP

    Hello Brother Jeremy,

    Good news at last.  Neil Brookins Bible Accordance program is ready
 for the CoCo 3!!  I'll give his phone numbers here so you and anyone
 else who wants to order it can place the order with him.

    work # 215 233 8517  <-- has an answer machine.
    home # 215 542 2348

    Call his work number first, if he's not there just leave your message
 and he will call you back.

-
   John Baer
   johnbaer@delphi.com
   jbaer@pacs.pha.pa.us

   *** InfoXpress 1.01.00 ***

-*-

84225 20-DEC 19:33 Applications (6809)
     RE: Bible Accordence Ready (Re: Msg 84220)
     From: DSRTFOX      To: JOHNBAER

John, either forward me a mailing address and I'll send him a sample copy of
"68 micros" and a special ad rate sheet, or have him send me a post card!
FARNA Systems, Box 321, Warner Robins, GA 31099

-*-

84229 20-DEC 21:21 Applications (6809)
     RE: Bible Accordence Ready (Re: Msg 84220)
     From: REVWCP       To: JOHNBAER

Thank you for the Good News (about the Good Book...)  Wishing you and all
near and dear to you God's blessings at this Holy Season.

With all best wishes,
Brother Jeremy, CSJW
OS9 User's Group Treasurer

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

84221 20-DEC 18:52 New Uploads
     RE: GWINDOWS available for the MM1 (Re: Msg 84212)
     From: EDELMAR      To: ALL

 Frank Hogg in his message #84211 made several statements which require
 clarification and correction.

 Frank Hogg didn't have to call Steve Adams to find out what changes had
 occurred to G-WINDOWS.  He need only read the current edition of the
 'edition.h' file provided by Steve.  All changes to G-WINDOWS are listed
 there.  Also, Steve lists to whom and when he has sent updated versions.
 DELMAR CO is listed twice.

 First, his conversation with Steve Adams wherein he claims Steve stated the
 only changes to G-WINDOWS involved -

    > 1) The Japanese version
    > 2) Ultra C use
    > 3) GView
    > 4) OS9000.
    > There is no significant difference between 37 and 51 othevy to the
conversation nor, apparantly, was anyone else.  But
 I doubt Steve Adams made the above statements as claimed.

 One need only look at the 'edition.h' file provided with G-WINDOWS.  I
 include a copy with all copies of G-WINDOWS I sell.  From edition 37
 through edition 50, there were over 200 changes.  While many of these did
 deal the Kanji version, OS-9000 and some with Ultra C and GView, there are
 many others that deal directly with G-WINDOWS.  To illustrate just a few of
 the changes since edition 37 -

 Change to WFM (the window file manager) - 'changed so CLUT is correctly set-up
    before background color in window is drawn when a window is made visible or
    moved to the top of the window stack.'

 Change to DESKTOP - 'Fixed bug that wrongly identified text files as shell
    scripts.'

 Change to WFM - 'Fixed task queuing mechanixm so high priority processes
    don't lock low priority processes on fast CPUs.'  (I don't know if the
    68340 qualifies as a fast cpu.)

 Change to WFM - 'Fixed bug in "Window_Get(W_RawScreenData)" function which
    would inadvertantly change contents of the BOX parameter.'

 Change to WFM - 'Added a cache flush so WFM would work with copy-back cache.'

 Added utility - 'editframe' - a frame editor for G-WINDOWS.
    The utility is especially important to hardware with limited resolution
    capabilities such as the KIX/MGA board and the MM/1.  It permits reducing
    the width of the window border permitting a larger window area.

 There are other changes pertinent to G-WINDOWS including the use of many
 environment variables.

 'edition.h' is solely the product of Steve Adams and all changes listed
 therein are his including the ones I extracted above.  Hence, I question
 the veracity of Frank Hogg's report of his conversation.  I will post a copy
 of the latest 'edition.h' I have in the database.

 I don't mean to imply G-WINDOWS is buggy.  It isn't.  But no one has yet
 to write the perfect code.  As Steve Adams finds or is made aware of
 problems, he resolves them immediately.  To my knowledge and experience,
 none of the 'bugs' will result in crashing G-WINDOWS.  G-WINDOWS will simply
 ignore the error or respond with an appropriate error message.  This is also
 true when you try to run certain software written under later versions of
 G-WINDOWS but run under earlier versions.  Further, Steve has been adding
 enhancements to G-WINDOWS.

 Frank Hogg reports the following statement from Steve Adams -

 > As far as I know there is no changes to the drivers required to update to
 > newer versions of GWINDOWS from #37 on.

 It is true that a driver written under edition 37 will work under edition
 #50.  Since certain library functions may've been changed and/or added, the
 driver should be re-compiled with the new library/header files to insure these
 are picked up.  In fact, this was neccesary for the 2 releases I received.

 Sometimes Steve includes suggestions on new algorithms to perform some of the
 functions in the driver.  I'm learning others.  A new release is a good time
 to review the driver code to insure everything is optimized and is wholly
 consistent with the other modules comprising G-WINDOWS.

 A new release is not because of the driver.  The Window File Manager (WFM),
 Desktop and a whole host of related programs and utilities may be updated.
 These updates come from Steve Adams.  An update is really a whole new
 G-WINDOWS package and DELMAR CO distributes them as such.

 I suppose it's a matter of how we perceive our responsibility to our
 customers.  My preference is to provide the best and latest I can to my
 customers.

 The following dialogue is most interesting -

 > FH: What about ControlCalc? And how much does it cost?

 > SA: ControlCalc may be the only difference. It may
 > require a newer edition. I don't know the cost for sure
 > but I think it's $6,000.

 > FH: Well if it costs that much then it is not an issue here.  ...

 The statement 'it is not an issue here' is presumptuous.  Following FHL's
 reasoning would preclude the MM/1 or MM/1A being considered as a platform
 for ControlCalc and perhaps other programs which might be developed and
 released in the future.  I don't believe the distributor of a package of
 this type should pre-judge the market for other hardware.

 More info on ControlCalc and G-WINDOWS.  It is true that the Developer's
 version of ControlCalc costs $6000.00.  But the Run-Time is only $995.00.
 ControlCalc uses G-VIEW.  Also a very expensive package (but included in the
 price of the Developer's version of ControlCalc).  It is G-VIEW that is
 sensitive to the version of G-WINDOWS being used.  I don't think we can expect
 the average G-WINDOWS user to purchase G-VIEW, but a demo version of G-VIEW
 is included with G-WINDOWS.  Except for the size of the source code it can
 process, it is a full-fledged, working version.  (I think it's limited to
 about 100 lines of source code.)  I am aware of one programmer who is using
 this version of G-VIEW and will be including the gadgets, etc. generated in
 his software.  There is no reason other programmers can't take advantage of
 the demo version of G-VIEW as well.  Will a user with an older version of
 G-WINDOWS be able to run his software?  I think it really will depend on
 what the programmer has done but I don't see why anyone should take chances.

 > ... Delmars comments annoyed me and I have decided to pursue this.

 Since Frank Hogg credits my comments with causing him to withdraw his offer
 of an obselete and unsupported version of G-WINDOWS, I feel my efforts were
 worth while.

 In message #84212, Frank Hogg is now offering a current, supported version
 of G-WINDOWS.  Fine - I have no problem with that _if_ he follows through
 and is committed to continued and ongoing support.  But I think the OSK
 community might feel more comfortable had he pursued this course of action
 originally without being 'annoyed' by me.  His own statement creates doubts
 as to his motivation.

 Judging by his past actions, he does not seem interested in providing up-to-
 date products.  In fact, he appears obsessed rationilizing his failure to
 provide current software.  The TC70 was delivered with Version 2.3 of OSK and,
 according to the best information I've been able to get, he is still providing
 Version 2.3 OSK with his KIX series of computers.  I believe all other
 providers of OSK hardware have long ago switched to Version 2.4.  It would
 appear that his MGA board is being shipped with edition 37 of G-WINDOWS.
 So, does he demonstrate a history of providing up-dated products and support?

 Before making a decision, you may wish to consider the following factors -

    Several TC70 customers purchased G-WINDOWS from FHL.  What kind of support
    have they received including upgrades?

    What version of G-WINDOWS is being shipped for the KIX/MGA?  What support
    are these customers receiving?

    Since Ray Tremblay is an independent agent, what is his long term commit-
    ment for support and upgrades.  What will Frank Hogg do in the event Ray,
    for whatever reason, is unable or unwilling to continue his support?

    Can you call Frank Hogg most any time and get support?  Is he knowledgeable
    about G-WINDOWS?  The developer's pak?  G-VIEW?

    What documentation is included?  In addition to the official documentation
    for G-WINDOWS, DELMAR includes a comprehensive tutorial to assist new users
    get started using G-WINDOWS.

 Because of the commitments already made, I will continue my offer and permit
 the market to decide who is capable of best serving them.  Those who have
 placed orders with me and wish to cancel certainly may do so.  Just let me
 know.

 Ed Gresick
 DELMAR CO

-*-

84237 21-DEC 00:17 New Uploads
     RE: GWINDOWS available for the MM1 (Re: Msg 84221)
     From: FHOGG        To: ALL

Please refer to message #80584.
 In that message we showed how we caught Ed Gresick red
handed deliberately falsifying benchmark results. He lied
about us and about our products. That message was the
culmination of many weeks of grief where Ed Gresick put
all of us thru the wringer. Now he has the unmitigated
gall to question MY veracity when it was he who has been
proven BY HIS OWN WORDS and IN HIS OWN HAND to be deceitful!
Shame on him. Now he wants to start this all over again
with another long winded flame about our port of GWINDOWS
to the MM1. Not me! Not again! You will notice in message
#80657 (again going back to the old thread) that he did
not admit in full to what he had done. His 'apology' such
as is was was NEVER accepted by Mike Smith or myself.
 This is all I have to say on this matter in this forum.
All further comments from Ed Gresick and his past lies
will be dealt with in a different venue.
 Frank Hogg -- FHL

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

84223 20-DEC 19:24 Programmers Den
     RE: Shanghai OS-9 (Re: Msg 84209)
     From: MICHAELJN    To: DSRTFOX

Thanks alot!

-*-

84232 20-DEC 22:22 General Information
     Christmas Mass
     From: REVWCP       To: ALL

Dear friends:
In a few short days, it will be Christmas Eve.  For a priest and monk, the
Midnight Mass always holds a special place.  As has been my custom, I will
remember you all in general at that mass.  If you have any special intentions,
for loved one who are ill, or in need, or any other concerns that you would
like lifted up in prayer that night, please feel free to leave me a message,
either here or in Email, by 3pm December 24th.  I wish you all God's blessings
at this Holy Season.  You have been very special friends to me.  Our fellowship
at the fests, your always ready willingness to help with technical or
programming questions.  Your kind words of support during my time of loss and
sorrow following my dad's death in July.  I have said this many times but it
bears repeating, you are a very
 special group of people.  As one who has taken a vow of poverty, I do not have
many personal possesions, but if one can count his friends as
riches, you all have made me a truly wealthy man.
With all best wishes,
Brother Jeremy, CSJW

-*-

84233 20-DEC 22:32 OSK Applications
     tc70 hi speedmodem
     From: THUNDERFNGRS To: FHOGG

I justgot a new 14.4 modem.  works ok on my clone pc, but get repeating
characters and missed line onthetomcat with sterm.  May try com.
Will check my cables for rts/cts.  I am using my kbus /t2 port.
Any suggestions?

-*-

84238 21-DEC 00:20 OSK Applications
     RE: tc70 hi speedmodem (Re: Msg 84233)
     From: FHOGG        To: THUNDERFNGRS (NR)

Wish I was running OS9 so I could just look in my CMDS directory. However
if memory serves there should be a command that will let you change the size of
the receive buffer on the duart. I 'think' the drivers name is
sc68681?? I'll look later to see if I can remember the name of the command.

Hope this helps.

Frank

-*-

84239 21-DEC 01:05 OSK Applications
     RE: tc70 hi speedmodem (Re: Msg 84233)
     From: FHOGG        To: THUNDERFNGRS (NR)

OK Now I'm on the KiX. The command you should try is 'xbufr'

KiX: xbufr -?
Syntax: xbufr  <serial descriptor name> [<parms>] {<serial name> [<parms>]}
Function: display/change serial port buffer sizes
    If no parameters are given, the current buffer sizes
    be displayed.  Otherwise, the size of one or both buffers
    is to be set.  Maximum buffer size permitted is 65535
    while the minimum buffer size allowed is 16.
Parameters:
    input=n     - input buffer size in bytes
    output=n    - output buffer size in bytes
KiX:

I think that changing the rec. buffer 'may' help. I have one of those 14.4
jobbies on my Christmas list but Santa thinks I've been bad. <g>

Let me know how that works out.

Frank

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

84234 20-DEC 23:20 System Modules (6809)
     RE: SC-II y-cable (Re: Msg 84173)
     From: AJMLFCO      To: RICHKOTTKE (NR)

I had similar results to  yours on shielding
the ribbon cable between the computer and the
SC-II.  All of my problems cleared up after that.


One other tip:  If you want to run a RS232 pack along
with the SC-II/4n1 , the RS232 pack appears to work
better if it's closest to the computer.

Allen

-*-

84235 20-DEC 23:41 Games & Graphics
     RE: JPEG files (Re: Msg 84203)
     From: MITHELEN     To: ALWAGNER (NR)

Whoops... that is my fault.. Yes, they are indeed AR archives... I found that
out after downloading them to check them for approval, and forgot to fix the
download name to ".ar" instead of ".lzh" extensions... I'll fix it right after
im done in forum tonight
--
 Paul Jerkatis - SandV BBS (708)352-0948: Chicago Area OS-9 Users Group
 UUCP ...{balr|tellab5}!vpnet!sandv.chi.il.us!sysop
 Internet: MITHELEN@Delphi.com

 "Did you ever notice how cheep 99% of all BBS users are?" - Unknown

-*-

84236 20-DEC 23:45 General Information
     RE: MM/1 Production (Re: Msg 84190)
     From: AJMLFCO      To: NIMITZ (NR)

A couple of horror stories come to mind when people talk about
setting standards before the product comes to market.  One is
General Motors well-intentioned effort to create an open systems
standard for communications called MAP ( Manufactureing
Automation Protocol).  Untold manyears and dollars were spent
to no avail. Now, 5 years later there are nearly zero
products available and TCP/IP is king of the hill.  TCP/IP
appears to be a standard with a more common-sense approach:
try it, test it, then standardize what WORKS.  The second
example is the ISA (Instrument Society of America)
"fieldbus" standard.  After 7 years of working with vendors,
the IEC, ISO and who-knows-how-many theorists, we still
have nothing but arguments.  The entire industrial control
world is nearly at war over this.  The major manufacturers
have given up on the BS and have decided to try standardizing
on something that WORKS.  Unfortunately, they have broken into
two camps, one based on "Profibus" (a German standard) and
the other on "World Fip", a French standard.  Either standard
would probably be acceptable, as they both already work
ll.

Please don't tell me something is a standard unless you
can show a working system!  Just say no to Vaporware....

Allen Morgan

-*-

84241 21-DEC 01:30 General Information
     UUCP 5.2 for OSK
     From: BOISY        To: ALL

I've had several requests concerning the OSK port of UUCP 5.2bb.  As of
tonite, it works beautifully with OSK and CoCo ports of the UUCP
package, as well as SunOS, and (I am told) Ultrix and SYSV UUCP
packages.

I'll be forwarding the source code changes to Bob Billson for
integration.  You should be seeing it available around mid-January.
I also do plan to port it to OS-9000, which should be no trouble
at all.

So guys and gals, it's not vaporware....

-*-


FORUM>Reply, Add, Read, "?" or Exit> 