
3DO announces M2

EXCLUSIVE First Pics of 3DO M2 Technology!


Check out these shots of a new 3DO racing game utilizing the announced 
M2 chip captured by the GURU's own Kraig Kujawa and Brian Goss. The 
official press release from 3DO follows. 


[*][I][*][I]

[*][I][*][I]


---------------------------------------------------------------------------

3DO Unveils 64-Bit M2 Technology 


NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 2, 1995--The 3DO Company today unveiled 
its highly anticipated, next-generation M2 technology. 3DO's M2 
64-bit architecture is designed to create a quantum leap in advanced 
CD entertainment technology. Leveraging 3DO's high-end 3-D image 
and sound processors and IBM and Motorola's PowerPC microprocessor,
M2 technology rivals image quality and performance of workstations 
and the most popular arcade machines.

"It's a quantum leap for the industry in both graphics speed and 
quality," said Trip Hawkins, 3DO's President and CEO. "We're raising 
the bar again." 

M2 Performance Breakthrough 

3DO designed the M2 architecture to deliver breakthrough processing 
performance and the highest quality graphics and digital video for 
consumer interactive entertainment software. 

"The M2 polygon performance alone is phenomenal," said Hugh Martin,
3DO's Chief Operating Officer. "M2 easily beats many expensive 
graphics workstations and outpaces popular coin-op arcade systems. 
With its advanced graphics, video, and sound capabilities, M2's 
powerful 64-bit architecture will enable software developers to 
create titles that provide a whole new level of realism and engaging 
experiences not previously available on advanced CD entertainment 
systems." 

Based on 10 revolutionary custom graphics, sound, and I/O processors 
designed by 3DO, and an IBM PowerPC 602(TM) microprocessor specially 
designed with 3DO interactive applications in mind, the M2 architecture 
processes more than one million polygons per second. Each of the 
multiple M2 processors is dedicated to specific tasks to optimize 
superior image quality and performance. 

These processors are supported by the powerful system resources 
that M2 technology provides, including a 64-bit data bus, 48 megabits 
of memory, and a memory subsystem capable of delivering 528 megabytes 
per second. MPEG-1 digital video decompression technology is also 
designed into the core M2 architecture for built-in VHS-quality 
digital video capability. 

"The superior price and performance of the PowerPC 602 is enabling 
new classes of advanced home entertainment software," said Phil 
Hester, General Manager, Systems Technology and Architecture Division,
IBM. "Working together with 3DO, we've defined the 602 with unique 
capabilities to make M2 the best possible technology for interactive 
entertainment applications. 3DO's 64-bit M2 system architecture 
will forever change the way people play, learn, and interact." 

The highly integrated M2 architecture was developed from the ground 
up and is the result of working with the world's leading processor,
graphics, and audio system designers. 

"IBM and Motorola's world class manufacturing process will allow 
us to achieve superior performance through higher integration," said 
Hawkins. "With the PowerPC microprocessor and 3DO's custom M2 processors,
we have a processor family that offers truly next-generation performance." 


Beyond the Bits 

M2's revolutionary image quality and performance features will enable 
development of interactive entertainment software that provides 
an unprecedented level of realism, with richly detailed interactive 
worlds containing multiple, complex 3-D characters. With photorealistic 
images, high frame rates, VHS-quality video, and theatre-quality 
sound, the M2 interactive software experience will be radically 
better than anything consumers are familiar with today. 

"The M2 capabilities demonstrated today go far beyond anything currently 
available on the market or in development for the advanced CD entertainment 
market," said Martin. "Feature like Gouraud shading, filtered textures,
3-D perspective correction, and complex scenes requiring performance 
in the hundreds of thousands of polygons per second, will take gamers 
into a whole new dimension of realism and fun." 

"With the first 3DO system, we delivered the very best interactive 
entertainment experience for the home," added Hawkins. "M2 will 
once again set the standard--this time for the 64-bit advanced 
CD entertainment experience."

Advanced Graphics and Video Features 

M2 technology was designed to enable software companies to provide 
consumers with complex, photorealistic 3-D worlds and characters 
and full motion digital video mixed with computer-generated graphics 
that move seamlessly. M2 will enable software companies to develop 
interactive entertainment titles that offer lifelike graphics at 
tremendous speeds with considerably more action than has previously 
been possible in interactive titles. 

3DO's M2 architecture includes several key features for achieving 
breakthrough image quality and performance. These features, which 
are built into and performed by the M2 hardware, will enable software 
developers to easily and efficiently provide richer, more sophisticated 
graphic images and engaging entertainment experiences. Software 
designers simply apply these advanced effects to an image and the 
M2 technology does the rest of the work. 

-- Gouraud Shading and Lighting--M2 technology allows designers 
to apply a significant number of lighting effects to an object or 
scene. Light sources are then reflected realistically off of objects 
based on where the light source is in relation to the object. Gouraud 
shading is applied to the object to create the appropriate colors 
and shadows in the scene. The result is images and scenery with 
brilliantly curved and smooth surfaces. 

-- Texture Mapping--Texture mapping is used to apply a graphic 
texture to polygon-based models to give the modelled object the 
desired look. 3DO's M2 texture mapping capability renders polygons 
delivering more than 100 million pixels per second and supports a 
wide range of data types, including video. 

-- Filtering--Filtering is the process used to make objects and 
textures appear smoother and more natural by averaging and softening 
an image's pixel edges. Filtering creates more realistic images 
while using simpler geometry. 

-- Mip mapping--Mip mapping is used to provide a smooth texture 
appearance as an object moves closer to or farther away in a scene. 
Through mip mapping, the system dynamically uses different levels 
of texture detail based on the object's distance from the camera. 
The images will appear to scale more smoothly and maintain their 
visual clarity regardless of camera distance, yet only the original 
texture is needed. 

-- Z-Buffer - A two-dimensional world is described by two axes -
- X and Y, or horizontal and vertical. A three-dimensional world 
adds a third axis, Z, which allows objects to be placed anywhere 
within a three-dimensional space.

When one object sits in front of a second object, the Z dimension 
tells the system where each object is relative to others. 

The Z-buffer manages complex objects intersecting dynamically and 
enables automatic hidden surface calculations. The system automatically 
knows for any given visual perspective what the user will see, and 
therefore which polygons to render. For example, if a car drives 
in front of a tree, the system automatically determines that it 
does not need to render that portion of the tree which is hidden 
behind the car. M2 Z-buffering is provided in the hardware as with 
coin-op arcade machines and workstations, while other systems only 
allow for Z-buffering to occur in software. Z-buffering provides 
a big performance gain when using complex graphic models. 

-- Perspective correction--3-D perspective correction takes the 
Z dimension into account when mapping a texture to a polygon. The 
M2 technology automatically modifies the textures in a scene to 
appear with the proper perspective, based on user interaction. This 
results in fewer artifacts and simpler geometry than for competing 
systems. 

-- Transparency--Transparency enables complex images and special 
effects to be built with simple geometric models. The M2 architecture 
also provides alpha channel support, which enables software designers 
to control the level of transparency in a model pixel by pixel in 
real time. For instance, one large polygon can be drawn and a texture 
can be mapped with transparency applied to appropriate pixels to 
create the desired effect. 

-- Hardware-based MPEG-1 video decompression--The M2 technology 
is designed with built-in MPEG-1 video decompression to provide 
VHS-quality digital video capability. In addition to using digital 
video decompression for playback, M2 treats decompressed video like 
any other type of data. This advanced technique enables designers 
to apply decompressed running video to an object like any other 
texture. With this feature, M2 hardware has the video effects capability 
of machines costing many thousands of dollars. Additionally, multiple 
streams of digital video can be incorporated in a title at one time. 


Software Development Environment 

Software design expertise in developing 32-bit 3DO titles is scalable 
to the new M2 architecture. As part of its M2 technology strategy,
3DO has taken advantage of its current operating system and development 
tools to minimize the M2 development learning curve. The company 
leveraged and migrated many critical components of its 32-bit platform 
development environment to the M2 development environment, including 
its core operating system, enhanced with new 2-D and 3-D graphics 
functions to enable software companies to produce M2 titles faster 
and more easily than developing first titles for other new architectures. 


M2 Product Designs 

The M2 system architecture was designed to provide 3DO hardware partners 
with the flexibility to produce products to meet a variety of consumer 
needs, including add-on upgrades for current 3DO Interactive Multiplayer 
customers, as well as integrated standalone M2 systems.

"3DO was first to market with a 32-bit system, and others have adopted 
our concept of the product," said Hawkins. "But nobody else has 
anything like M2."

The company expects to announce M2 hardware and software partners 
and specific M2 product launch plans at a later date. 

Based in Redwood City, Calif., The 3DO Company (NASDAQ:THDO) develops 
and licenses advanced interactive technology to hardware and software 
companies worldwide. The company's award-winning product design,
the 32-bit 3DO Interactive Multiplayer system, was created to deliver 
a breakthrough in interactive entertainment at an affordable price. 
3DO also develops, publishes, and distributes CD-ROM software products 
and peripherals for the 3DO system. The current 3DO system is available 
worldwide from Panasonic, GoldStar, Sanyo, and Creative Labs. 

-0- 

Note to Editors: 3DO, the 3DO logos, and Interactive Multiplayer 
are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of The 3DO Company. 
All other brand or product names are trademarks and/or registered 
trademarks of their respective owners. 
