San Jose, Calif.--February 11, 1992 - The AQUILA Network Products Division
(ANPD) of ADI Systems, Inc. has recently expanded its AQUILA networking
line by marketing two new products. The first product is a three-quarter
sized controller card for EISA systems that features a 32-bit bus
architecture designed with National's ST-NIC Ethernet controller chip,
allowing support of 10BaseT as well as thick or thin Ethernet--au on the
same card for enhanced user convenience.

This 3-in-1 EISA Controller, Model AQ-EISA, is equipped with dual-port 32Kb
buffer memory and utilizes shared-memory architecture, providing users
with higher throughput than designs which depend on DMA or I/O mapped
architecture. Among other features are CSMA/CD media access control,
baseband signalling, and a 10Mbps data transfer rate. Software support
includes ODI and IPX drivers for servers and workstations that support
Novell NetWare 2.x and 3.x versions, as well as a TCP/IP driver for
supporting Interactive Systems Corp. (ISC) Unix 2.2 and Santa Cruz
Operation (SCO) Open Desktop 3.2.1. In addition, a diagnostics program is
included which runs a loop-back test, tests the dual-ported RAM, checks
the controller I/O base address, tests the interrupt request, and displays
the Ethernet address.

This controller is designed to boost the performance of EISA-based 386/486
servers. Performance evaluations running Novell's Perform3 benchmark test,
compared to other EISA adapters available on the market, confirm that this
controller is one of the fastest of all cards tested while requiring the
least server CPU resources of non-bus mastering adapters. The AQUILA
Controller complies with all IEEE 802.3 Ethernet standards, comes with a
full five-year warranty, and has a U.S. list price of $499.

The second NPD item marketed under the AQUILA name is a Pocket LAN Adapter,
targeted for laptops and notebooks, of which there are three different
models: two Ethernet Adapters (Models AQ-ECX-PKT and AQ-ETP-PKT) and one
ARCnet Adapter (Model AQ-ARC-PKT). Each of these models utilizes a
standard 25-pin parallel port and has no configuration switches. While the
AQ-ECX-PKT supports a 10Base2 thin coaxial topology, the AQ-ETP-PKT is
used for 10BaseT. The AQ-ARC-PKT, on the other hand, supports an ARCnet
star or bus topology. Novell NetWare 286/386 drivers and a NetBIOS driver
are offered with all three models, but the two Ethernet Adapters also
support FTP PCITCP, PC-NFS, and 3Com 3+Share.

By avoiding the need for an internal I/O bus slot, each of these Adapter
versions eliminates the need for jumper and switch settings and hardware
interrupt and address conflicts typical with more conventional card-type
adapters. With the use of an external parallel port, these Adapters assure
automatic configuration with IBM 286, 386, 486, PS/2, and compatibles.
They are especially ideal for laptops, notebooks, and small footprint
desktops because

ù They do not require an I/O slot, making it possible for computers without
available slots to attach to a network.

ù They preserve the computer's battery power

ù The housing is compact (4.57"L x 2.52"W x .85"H) and lightweight (8 oz.)

ù The 110V and 220V power input support provides added convenience for the
international traveler

The Ethernet Coax and 10BaseT versions of this Adapter list in the U.S. for
$299 while the ARCnet version is listed at $209. Each carries a one-year
warranty.

--------------------------------------------------------

San Jose, Calif.--February 11, 1992 - The AQUILA Network Products Division
(ANPD) of ADI Systems, Inc. has introduced two new NE1000-compatible 8-bit
Ethernet controllers. They feature a 16KB buffer memory for either Coax
Ethernet (Model #AQ-lOOOCX) or 10BaseT (Model #AQ-1000TP) network
environments that utilize 286-, 386-, and 486-based ISA systems. These
NetWare-ready AQUILA controllers are designed to utilize the NE1000
drivers included with popular network operating systems (NOS).
Additionally, both can become simple network management protocol (SNMP)
managed controllers when used with LanExec, ADI's SNMP-based network
management software.

Both the AQ-1000CX and the AQ-lOOOTP controllers, each with a list price of
$159, include the following features:

ù Designed with the new highly integrated National ST-NIC chip, for the
most advanced technology available

ù Fully compatible with NE1000 drivers

ù Compliance with all IEEE 802.3 standards

ù CMSA/CD media access control: Baseband; 10Mbps data transfer rate

ù BNC or RJ45 connector for attaching to thin Ethernet or twisted pair
applications

ù DB-15 connector for external transceiver with thick Ethernet
installations

ù Supports multiple controllers in same host computer for internetwork
bridge configurations

ù Socket for Remote Boot PROM

ù Link status LED on bracket for simplified network troubleshooting

ù Full five-year warranty

An SNMP agent for both the AQ-1000CX and AQ-lOOOTP controllers are
available, allowing these cards to become manageable by using ADI's
LanExec, a SNMP-based network management software program.

These new NE1000-compatible Ethernet controllers are additions to the
expanding line of Ethernet and ARCnet controllers and hubs marketed by the
AQUILA Network Products Division (ANPD) of ADI Systems, Inc.--established
about two years ago to service the growing needs of LAN users. ANPD
expanded its network connectivity line by selectively merging certain
products from Aquila Communications to complete its own lOBaseT offerings.
This division now carries a complete line of Ethernet and ARCnet
controllers and hubs, and is introducing several new product introductions
this year. It will be emphasizing intelligent SNMP-based network
management of lOBaseT and coax Ethernet solutions optimized for use with
Novell NetWare and NetBIOS-based operating systems.

--------------------------------------------------------

San Jose, Calif.--February 11, 1992 - The AQUILA Network Products Division
(ANPD) of ADI Systems, Inc. has introduced two new NE2000-compatible
16-bit Ethernet controllers. They feature a 16KB buffer memory for either
Coax Ethernet (Model #AQ-2000CX) or 10BaseT (Model #AQ-2000TP) network
environments that utilize 286-, 386-, and 486-based ISA systems. These
NetWare-ready AQUILA controllers are designed to utilize the NE2000
drivers included with popular network operating systems (NOS).
Additionally, both can become simple network management protocol (SNMP)
managed controllers when used with LanExec, ADI's SNMP-based network
management software.

Both the AQ-2000CX and the AQ-2000TP controllers, each with a list price of
$199, include the following features:

ù Designed with the new highly integrated National ST-NIC chip, for the
most advanced technology available

ù Fully compatible with NE2000 drivers

ù Compliance with all IEEE 802.3 standards

ù CMSA/CD media access control: Baseband; 10Mbps data transfer rate

ù BNC or RJ45 connector for attaching to thin Ethernet or twisted pair
applications

ù DB-15 connector for external transceiver with thick Ethernet
installations

ù Supports multiple controllers in same host computer for internetwork
bridge configurations

ù Socket for Remote Boot PROM

ù Link status LED on bracket for simplified network troubleshooting

ù Full five-year warranty

An SNMP agent for both the AQ-2000CX and AQ-2000TP controllers are
available, allowing these cards to become manageable by using ADI's
LanExec, a SNMP-based network management software program.

These new NE2000-compatible Ethernet controllers are additions to the
expanding line of Ethernet and ARCnet controllers and hubs marketed by the
AQUILA Network Products Division (ANPD) of ADI Systems, Inc.--established
about two years ago to service the growing needs of LAN users. ANPD
expanded its network connectivity line by selectively merging certain
products from Aquila Communications to complete its own 10BaseT offerings.
This division now carries a complete line of Ethernet and ARCnet
controllers and hubs, and is introducing several new product introductions
this year. It will be emphasizing intelligent SNMP-based network
management of 10BaseT and coax Ethernet solutions optimized for use with
Novell NetWare and NetBIOS-based operating systems.

--------------------------------------------------------

San Jose, Calif.--February 11, 1992 - The AQUILA Network Products Division
(ANPD) of ADI Systems, Inc. has introduced two new 16-bit Ethernet
controllers: the AQ-E16-TP (for 10BaseT cabling) and the AQ-E16-CX (for
Coax Ethernet cabling). These high-performance ISA-bus Ethernet
controllers are based on the new, highly integrated National ST-NIC
Ethernet chip. They become managed controllers when used together with
LanExec, a SNMP-based management network software program from ADI
Systems, Inc.

Both the AQ-El6-CX and the AQ-E16-TP, which include a full suite of drivers
to provide support for a variety of popular network operating systems, can
run on the following protocols:

ù IPX and ODI protocol for Novell NetWare Lite, 2.x and 3.x

ù NDIS for LAN Manager, 3COM 3+ Share, PC-NFS, and others

ù NetBIOS for LANtastic, POWERLan, 10Net+, IBM LAN Server, and others

ù Packet for FTP PC/TCP, and others

Features of both the AQ-El6-CX and the AQ-El6-TP, each with a list price of
$239, include the following:

ù Compliance with all IEEE 802.3 standards

ù CMSA/CD media access control; Baseband; 10Mbps data transfer rate

ù BNC or RJ 15 connector for attaching to thin Ethernet or twisted pair
applications

ù Support of multiple controllers in same host computer for internetwork
bridge configurations

ù Socket for 8KB Auto-Boot PROM

ù Link status LED on bracket for simplified network troubleshooting

ù Full five-year warranty

A SNMP agent for both the AQ-E16-CX and AQ-E16-TP controllers are
available, allowing these cards to become manageable by using ADI's
LanExec, a SNMP-based network management software program.

These new high performance Ethernet controllers are new additions to the
expanding line of Ethernet and ARCnet hubs marketed by the AQUILA Network
Products Division (ANPD) of ADI Systems, Inc.--established about two years
ago to service the growing needs of LAN users. ANPD expanded its network
connectivity line by selectively merging certain products from Aquila
Communications to complete its own 10BaseT offerings. This division now
carries a complete line of Ethernet and ARCnet controllers and hubs, and
is introducing several new product introductions this year. It will be
emphasizing intelligent SNMP-based network management of 10BaseT and coax
Ethernet solutions optimized for use with Novell NetWare and NetBIOS-based
operating systems.

--------------------------------------------------------

San Jose, Calif.--February 11, 1992 - The AQUILA Network Products Division
(ANPD) of ADI Systems, Inc., has just announced the release of its
AQ-IHUB-12TP, an intelligent 13-port, 10BaseT hub. This unique intelligent
hub can connect up to 12 workstations on an Ethernet LAN using

10BaseT twisted pair cabling and either one workstation or a file server
using 10Base2 coaxial cabling.

Triple Function Capability

The AQ-IHUB-12TP can function either as a managed, intelligent hub or as a
dumb ("unmanaged") hub targeted toward small-to-medium size businesses.
When it is used together with LanExec, an SNMP-based network management
system from ADI Systems, Inc., the AQ-IHUB-12TP operates intelligently.
Otherwise, in its standard configuration, it serves as an unmanaged hub.

A third way that the AQ-IHUB-12TP may function is as an intelligent hub
compatible with Novell's HMI standard.

"This gives users three options," says Raymond Hou, ADI's Executive VP.
"They can purchase it hub that not only has upgrade flexibility and a
unique 13-port, single-slot design. Or they may feel that they want to put
it into a server and utilize the HMI support the AQIHUB-12TP offers."

AQ-IHUB-12TP: A New Low-Price Leader

The hub controller, cable, and optional hub console with external RJ45
connections lists for $999, or just under $77 per port. This makes the
AQIHUB-12TP the lowest-price-per-port for any SNMP-based intelligent hub
as other 10BaseT hubs which offer advanced network capabilities typically
cost more than $140 per port. In addition, the price-per-port of the
AQ-IHUB-12TP, is almost one-half that of the previous low-price leader,
David Systems' Express Net Concentrator.

Key Features of the New AQUILA Intelligent Hub

The AQ-IHUB-12TP has several key features to offer the user:

ù Capability of being an intelligent, managed 10BaseT hub when used with
ADI's LanExec SNMP-based management software

ù Capability of being used as a standard, unmanaged 10BaseT hub with no
additional expense required to convert for use in network management under
the LanExec SNMP management software program

ù Capability to serve as an intelligent 10BaseT hub that can be managed by
Novell's HMI specification

ù An 8-bit, ISA-bus card, designed with the National Semiconductor Repeater
Interface Controller (RIC). This card contains a 50-pin connector, a
female BNC connector, and two LEDs

ù Red collision-status LEDs (to indicate collisions) and green
data-transmission LEDs (to indicate transmissions) on the bracket of the
hub controller.

ù Green LEDs on the front of the hub console to display link integrity

ù 13 network connections, supporting up to 13 ports and consisting of
twelve 10BaseT RJ45 connectors and one thin Ethernet Coax BNC connection

ù Twelve-lOBaseT-port availability per slot and mounting bracket of a PC,
compared to the more conventional availability of occupying three slot
spaces and mounting brackets to obtain twelve 10BaseT ports where 4-port
hub cards are utilized. (Thus, the AQUILA hub controller requires only
one-third of the slot space of conventional hub cards.)

ù A six-foot cable that allows for attachment to the optional
AQ-IHUB-CONSOLE, to an optional harmonica with patch panel for rack
mounting, or to a punch block connector for the phone closet

ù Up to four AQIHUB-12TP controllers can be installed in a single PC

ù A BNC T-connector for connecting the hub controller to a 10Base2 Ethernet
segment

ù An optional external console (AQ-IHUB-CONSOLE) which has a compact
(1.5-in. high x 4.75-in wide x 7.25-in. long) size and includes 12 RJ45
jacks, 12 LEDs, and a 50-pin connector

Installation Options With the AQ IHUB-12TP

The hub controller may be installed in any IBM PC or PC AT system or
compatible, which would be designated as the hub station. Hub stations are
nondedicated systems; that is, they retain full capabilities as
stand-alone systems.

Up to four AQ-IHUB-12TP hub controllers and a NIC can be installed in a hub
station. Linking the NIC and the hub controller(s) permits the hub station
to also function as a network workstation or file server. If the NIC is
supported by LanExec and LanExec is installed on the network, the
AQIHUB-12TP can function as an intelligent hub. One NIC is required for
each hub controller for management.

For the external 10BaseT port connections, the new AQUILA hub provides
several installation options to fit particular wiring needs. The hub
controller can be connected in one of three different ways:

ù to the AQUILA Hub Console (AQ-IHUB-CONSOLE) by using the cable that comes
with the

hub controller, for a compact desktop unit with LEDs

ù to a harmonica connector. with a patch panel for rack mounting
[Recommended: a MOD-TAP 10BaseT 12-port harmonica connector & a MOD-TAP
10BaseT, 2 x 12 port patch panel.]

ù to a punch block for the wiring closet. using the 50-pin cable that comes
with the AQ-IHUB-12TP. The punch block can handle twisted-pair wiring for
12 workstations.

A Versatile Hub That Can Function Three Ways

AQIHUB-12TP becomes an intelligent hub by working with ADI's LanExec
software, a SNMP-based network management program for small to medium
sized 10BaseT and Coax Ethernet LANs. The hub controller needs to be
connected in the same PC with any of the following Ethernet NICs-- NE1000,
NE2000, 3COM 3C503, AQUILA, or any ADI-certified compatibles. This allows
the NIC to load a LanExec SNMP Agent that works together with the hub
controller to provide key data to LanExec's SNMP Manager, such as:

ù Packet count for SNMP, IPX, and NetBIOS

ù MIB II information, including System Group and SNMP Group information

ù Private MIB II extension information, including the following-- System:
machine type, workstation CPU, DOS version & BIOS date Software: software
driver & agent version, agent status, and protocol stack Configuration:
specifying type information, node name, node & slot ID, and IP address
Port Statistics: including packet transmit/receive counts Partition: to
enable/disable hub ports Hub Reset: for resetting the hub controller Hub
Card Reset: for resetting the NIC which provides intelligent management of
the hub

A second way that the AQ-IHUB-12TP can be used is as a hub which is
compatible with Novell's HMI standard, allowing workstations to use a LAN
server as an intelligent network hub. This alternative management
capability will be available during the second quarter of 1992. Customers
who purchase the AQ-IHUB-12TP now will receive the HMI driver from ADI at
no additional cost.

A final way the AQ-IHUB-12TP may be used is as an unmanaged hub, but with
the capability of becoming managed at a later time. Those who choose to
use AQ-IHUB-12TP as an unmanaged hub will receive Novell management
capabilities with it at no extra charge.

Different network configurations are possible with the AQ-IHUB-12TP. The
following illustrate some of the connections that can be made to suit a
variety of needs:

ù Four AQ-IHUB-12TP hub controllers can be in one hub station, with the BNC
port on each hub controller connecting to a separate lOBase2 segment. This
permits one hub station to support four AQ-IHUB LANs, each with up to 12
workstations and one file server

ù Same as above, but with all four controllers linked with lOBase2 cables.
This configuration allows one hub station to support one AQIHUB LAN of up
to 48 workstations and one file server.

ù Same as above, but with the hub station containing one network interface
card (NIC) and up to four hub controllers. This permits the hub station to
function as a network workstation or the network file server.

ù Two hub stations, each holding a hub controller and a NIC (making these
hubs intelligent) can be connected with two other controllers without NICs
(making these hubs unmanaged). This allows any PC in the group containing
a NIC to be the file server for the entire group.

Setting A New Price/Performance Standard

The total price of $999 includes $899 for the hub controller and cable and
$100 for the optional hub console, which provides 12 RJ-45 connectors.

"This hub combines the best features of entry-level fixed hubs and high-end
concentrators," claims Hou. "With conventional hubs, if you want to add
LAN management capabilities, you have to discard your old hub. Not so with
the AQ-IHUB-12TP. It's our intention to continue offering our customers
greater networking intelligence and performance at very aggressive prices.
We've been stressing the need to provide the small-to-medium LAN
installations with the same management capabilities that the larger
networks have. And we've done it by providing a 12-user LAN an intelligent
hub with a SNMP management software package for under $1,500. For example,
LanExec for 20-user capability is only $499. In effect, we've opened up a
whole new segment of users to network management that had previously been
neglected."

This new intelligent hub from ADI Systems is the latest product from the
AQUILA Network Products Division of ADI Systems, Inc.--established about
two years ago to service the growing needs of LAN users. ANPD expanded its
network connectivity line by selectively merging certain products from
Aquila Communications to complete its own 10BaseT offerings. This division
now carries a complete line of Ethernet and ARCnet controllers and hubs,
and is introducing several new product introductions this year. It will be
emphasizing intelligent SNMP-based network management of 10BaseT and coax
Ethernet solutions optimized for use with Novell NetWare and NetBIOS-based
operating systems.

All ANPD R & D, design, and manufacturing is done in the U.S. Additionally,
worldwide marketing, sales, customer support, and service are coordinated
from the division's Silicon Valley facility. ANPD is marketing its product
lines through distributors worldwide as well as to selected OEM accounts.
It is currently looking for additional qualified resellers to expand its
global distribution network.

ADI Systems, Inc. specializes in advanced technologies for computer display
monitors, LAN controllers and network management connectivity, personal
computers, and IBM plug-compatible terminals. Founded in 1979, ADI
Corporation, the parent company of ADI Systems, Inc. surpassed $155
million in sales for 1991. ADI is headquartered in Taiwan, with
international operations in the Netherlands, Thailand, Taipei, Taichung,
and with U.S. operations located in San Jose, California-- headquarters
for ADI Systems, Inc.--as well as a branch office in New Jersey.

ADI Systems Inc, 2115 Ringwood Ave, San Jose, CA 95131
408-944-0100, fax 408-944-0300

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  From the America On-Line & PC-Link New Product Info Services |
  +===============================================================+
  | This information was processed with OmniPage Professional OCR |
  | software (from Caere Corp) & a Canon IX-30 scanner from data  |
  | provided by the above mentioned company. For additional info, |
  | contact the company at the address or phone# indicated above. |
  |    All submissions for this service should be addressed to    |
  |   BAKER ENTERPRISES, 20 Ferro Drive, Sewell, NJ 08080 U.S.A.  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
