
              Mustang Software, Inc. Introduces QmodemPro

     BAKERSFIELD, Calif., October 13, 1992 -- Mustang Software, Inc.
(MSI), has introduced QmodemPro, the first communications software
program enabling electronic mail messages to be received and answered
using one integrated program, regardless of the originating E-mail
source.

     QmodemPro retrieves E-mail, bringing it in to one PC/compatible
environment.  The user no longer needs separate programs to handle MCI
Mail, CompuServe E-mail, BBS messages and other E-mail systems.  In
addition, QmodemPro can redirect the user's replies to any bulletin
board system (BBS), E-mail service or FAX machine -- not just the
original message's source.

     QmodemPro represents a "rewrite from scratch" of the Qmodem
program, according to Jim Harrer, president/CEO of MSI.  The company
acquired the original Qmodem program from The Forbin Project, Cedar
Falls, Iowa, in October 1991.  The product had attracted a large user
following through its nearly seven years of availability as a shareware
product.

     "Our goal for Qmodem has always been to produce an outstanding,
mass-merchandized product that could compete on any retail shelf with
the major generic communications programs," Harrer said.  "In addition,
QmodemPro works hand-in-glove with our other retail product line, the
WILDCAT! BBS software."

Enhanced Off-Line Xpress Mail Reader Heads New Features

     QmodemPro offers more than 75 new features compared to Qmodem
Version 5, the first version of Qmodem sold under the MSI label,
unveiled this past January.  Heading the list of new features is an
enhanced off-line mail reader.  This capability allows users to
download packets of mail and then read the contents off-line,
significantly reducing expensive long-distance charges.

     The enhanced off-line mail reader OLX features full mouse support
with pull-down menus and resizable windows.  Other new features include:

*    Ability to open multiple packets and view multiple conferences at
     once.

*    No limitations to the size of packets, conferences or message size.

*    More efficient use of memory resources, including EMS and XMS.

*    An integrated message editor with spelling checker and 124,000 word
     dictionary.  External editors also supported.

*    Full cut, copy and paste between messages, conferences and replies,
     even across packets.

*    Ability to save messages to folders for reading and action at a
     later time.

*    Internal address book with full links via QmodemPro to CIS, MCI,
     FAX and other services.

*    Advanced personal mail handling via an IN BOX with automatic
     archiving and configurable purging.  Personal mail no longer
     disappears when a packet is deleted.

*    Redirection of replies and messages to any location, not just the
     original source system.

Full mouse support and a pull-down menu interface have also been added
throughout the QmodemPro program.  Other key new features of the
communications software include:

*    The dialing directory now supports up to 4,095 entries per
     telephone book, with an unlimited number of books.

*    Ideally suited for working with a BBS, the dialing directory
     now includes support for up to four alternate telephone numbers
     per entry.  This allows the user to automatically try a
     different telephone number if the primary BBS number is busy.

*    Group-dialing support allows users to group-dial telephone book
     entries as one entry.  When dialing multiple E-mail systems,
     QmodemPro will download mail from one system and automatically
     continue on to the next entry in the group.

*    Automatic linking between mail packets created in OLX and dialing
     directory entries.  This allows sending all pending replies with a
     single keystroke.

*    QmodemPro includes send FAX ability, supporting both ASCII and .PCX
     files through any Class 1 or  Class 2 FAX modem.  FAX send
     integrates with OLX completely making it possible to create and
     send a FAX and custom cover sheet by simply typing the message to
     send.

*    MCI Mail and CompuServe E-mail gateway support, enabling users
     to retrieve or send messages on these popular E-mail accounts.

*    125 pre-configured modem setups for fast installation.

     Xmodem and ASCII.  Up to 10 external protocols can be added,
     including bi-directional protocols such as BIMODEM and HSLINK.

*    Five new terminal emulations have also been added, including
     WYSE 50, DEC VT 102, 220, 320 and TVI 925.

Direct orders for QmodemPro are being taken effective 10/13/92.  A
specific release date cannot be announced since the manuals and
packaging are still in production.

The retail price for QmodemPro with Off-Line Xpress is $99, and it will
be available in retail outlets in 6-8 weeks. Orders placed with MSI
direct will be processed as soon as the packaging is complete.  Allow
6-8 week for delivery for all orders.  Orders will be shipped on a
first-in first-out basis.

There are several special offers available.  Review the section below
for details.  Should an individual be eligible for more than one offer,
we encourage you to order the one which gives the best pricing
advantage. Only one special price offer is available per registration.

   *    A special upgrade offer for only $35 + s/h is available to
        registered users of Qmodem v5.x, and to users of Qmodem 4.x
        purchased from the Forbin project.  In order to take advantage
        of this upgrade offer your registration card must be on file
        with MSI or your name and registration information must be on
        file in the database of purchasers from the Forbin project.

   *    A special offer is also being extended to registered WILDCAT!
        sysops for a limited time.  Until December 31, 1992 any WILDCAT!
        sysop can purchase QmodemPro for only $50 + s/h, a discount of
        almost 50%.  If you don't own WILDCAT! but want to get it, you
        can order WILDCAT! between now and December 31 and get QmodemPro
        at the discount.

Because the new OLX v3 integrates so well with QmodemPro and has
extra capabilities when used with QmodemPro (such as FAX, CIS, MCI
etc.), we are also extending special offers to registered users of the
OLX and SLMR products.

   *    Registered users of OLX v2.2 will be receiving the new OLX v3
        automatically, provided the registration card has been received
        at MSI. A special offer is also being extended to these OLX
        registered users to enable them to receive the full QmodemPro
        package (including OLX) for only $20 + s/h.  To take advantage
        of this offer you must place your order by phone with MSI prior
        to November 1, 1992!  This offer is not good after the free OLX
        update has been mailed.  You must place your order prior to
        November 1 so that we can change our system records before we
        ship your package. After that date you can take a credit for $40
        toward a purchase of QmodemPro (see last offer).

   *    Registered users of the SLMR program from Technique Computer
        Systems can upgrade to OLX v3 for $20 + s/h.  They may also
        purchase QmodemPro with OLX for $40 + s/h if desired.  This
        offer expires on December 31, 1992.

   *    Registered users of either OLX 2.2 or SLMR may upgrade to
        QmodemPro at any time by taking a credit of their purchase price
        ($40 for OLX 2.2 and $20 for SLMR) against the $99 QmodemPro
        price.


Shipping and handling charges for all orders are as follows:

        Continental U.S.                - $10
        Hawaii, Alaska & Canada         - $15
        Overseas                        - $35

        Add $5 for all COD orders. CODs must be paid by cashiers check
        or money order, no personal checks or cash.

Orders are shipped exclusively by Federal Express.


Orders can be placed as follows:

    *   Call 1-800-999-9619 to order via VISA, MC, AMEX, Discover or COD.

    *   Order via FAX by calling 805-395-0713.  Please indicate your
        full shipping address, the name of the product desired, and
        registration information if taking advantage of an update
        discount. Also include a daytime phone number for use in the
        event we need to contact you about your order.

    *   Mail your order information to us at P.O. Box 2264, Bakersfield,
        CA  93303.  Please indicate your full shipping address, the name
        of the product desired, and registration information if taking
        advantage of an update discount. Also include a daytime phone number fo
        event we need to contact you about your order.

    *   Order via our BBS by calling 805-395-0650 (non-registered lines)
        or 805-395-0250 (registered lines).


