
800 Update 

Enhanced 800 Call Management features include alternate routing 
Call data reports, emergency backup also on tap

New England Telephone has filed call management tariffs in all five 
states for its 800 Service and 800 VALUFLEXsm Service that will 
greatly enhance those services with alternate call routing options, 
call data reports and an emergency backup. 

ALTERNATE CALL ROUTING 

Alternate call routing allows customers to terminate their 800 calls 
at multiple locations, based on various parameters identifying where 
and when calls originate. Customers may select call routing by: 

y Time of Day/Day of Week: This allows customers to determine where 
  calls will be routed, among several destinations, at any given time. 

y Originating Area Code and NXX/Full 10-Digit Number: This allows 
  customers to determine how calls will be routed based on where they 
  originate. This option is provided only when suitable facilities 
  exist at the originating central office. 

y Specific Date: This allows customers to develop alternate service 
  routing configurations based on the date that calls are made. The 
  alternate routing configurations are activated on customer-specified 
  dates, i.e. holidays or weekends. 

y Allocation to Terminating Location by Percentage of Calls: This 
  allows customers to redistribute or balance the calling volume 
  among terminating locations. Customers can specify, in increments 
  of 1%, the percentage of calls to be allocated to each location. 

y Multiple Carrier Selection: This allows customers to route calls 
  to multiple interexchange carriers based on three factors: 
  originating point of calls, time of day/day of week or on an 
  allocation basis. 


Although no monthly charges apply, there is a nonrecurring charge of 
$35 per 800 number for routing establishment and a $26 nonrecurring 
charge per 800 number per routing change. 

CALL DATA REPORTS

Call Data Reports, which are available subject to capacity 
limitations, allow customers to obtain sampled information about 
calls made to their 800 numbers. These reports can contain such 
information as the originating NXX, the time calls were placed, the 
number of calls completed compared to attempts, etc. 

There are two types of Call Data Reports: 

y Summary Reports provide formatted, extremely detailed results as 
  specified by customers. Summary Reports are available only on 
  printed media. 

y Raw Data Reports provide all the details of the calls, for time 
  periods specified by customers. They are available on printed media 
  or magnetic tape. 

Customers are allowed one Call Data Report of either kind at no 
charge. All subsequent reports cost $60 each. 

EMERGENCY UPDATE
An Emergency Update is defined as the activation or deactivation of a 
predetermined, inactive alternate route established as a backup to 
allow customers to arrange alternative destinations for their 800 
calls during situations they consider to be emergencies. This 
rerouting will be effective in less than 15 minutes after customers 
notify New England Telephone of the emergency. There is a $19 
nonrecurring charge for this service.  

