

               "How to bill your calls to a 3rd number"
                         'The Sec0nd Edition'
                            Written by BiC
                               03/04/95


INTRO:

        This is an informational file telling you how people can make free
long distance calls.  I am not here telling you to go out and do this, I'm
just informing you on how it happens.

        The third party billing service is extremely easy to use and abuse.
There are no operators involved, so don't let that worry you.  What the
service does, is allows you to call ANYWHERE and let John Doe in some other
state get charged for it.  Pretty cool, huh?

***DISCLAIMER***

        The Phreaks 0f the Industry and/or their Affiliates in *N0* way
        claim responsibility for the invention of the following.

        Furthermore, FULL credit is bestowed upon former POi member,
        RedBoxChilliPepper, of PLa.

        However, there were a few things that, at least in this part of
        the w3rld were wrong, and a few neat trix to be done with this
        tek-nique..  so here g0es.


HOW TO:

        The first thing you need to do is decide where you want to bill your
call to.  I advise billing it to someone out of state.  Remember, your number
will show up on their phone bill.  If you bill it locally, the person you have
billed it to is more than likely going to call you and find out whats up. If
its out of state, they probably wont call because it will only make their bill
higher.  Its easy for me to get numbers to bill it to, since I've moved around
the country. I still have copies of old phone books from when I lived in Ohio.
If you dont have a phone book, your going to have to call directory assistance
and get yourself a number.  I advice getting a phone book from a certain area
where you want to focus your billing.  The price of a phone book is alot
cheaper than the price of a long distance bill.

        Once you get yourself the number, the rest is pretty easy.  The first
thing you need to do is dial 1-0-ATT-0.  An automated voice will answer,
saying "Please enter the area code and number of the place you wish to call."
You simply press 713-583-8318, or whomever your trying to call.  Then it will
ask you "Please say Calling Card, Operator, Collect, Third Number, or Person
to Person now."  You say 'Third Number'.  It will then ask you for the number
you wish to bill the call to.  You press 216-773-7317, or whatever number you
want to bill it to.  You'll get the infamous "Thank you for (ab)using AT&T."
and you'll be on your way.


DATA CONNECTIONS:

        If you wanna use your modem to call long distance, you pretty much do
the same thing.  When AT&T dials the number you wish to call, and you hear the
other persons modem start to connect, type ATD in your terminal and hang up
your phone.  The modem handshake will sound a little messed up but eventually
it will give you a good connect.

PROBLEMS:

        You should not encounter any real problems from this.  My data line
has been the victim of a third party billing before.  I didnt bother checking
the numbers on the bill, I just called the phone company and told them to take
it off my bill.  The worst thing that can happen to you is that you are forced
to pay for the calls.  And thats not a common scenario.  It occurs too much
for the phone company to track down all the people doing it.

        I hope you find this file useful.  Believe me, it DOES work, because
I use it all the time.  Oh, and something I may have forgot above, rotate the
numbers your charging to.  Dont charge all your calls to one number, or it
will increase the chance that you will get charged.


GREETZ: PLA, Loki, Werewolf, Veetid, Marilyn Manson, PronG, and YAUN-Ti.

                Till next time, PEACE.  -BiC

You forgot TNo..  Beeotch..   GREETz to all the dewdz in The New Order.

                                                - U, POi Founder
<EOF> POi '95
