
                                 WATS EXTENDERS

        Many people think of phone phreaks as slime, out to rip off Bell for
all she is worth.  Nothing could be further from the truth!  Granted, there are
some who get there kicks just by making free calls, however they are not true
phone phreaks.  Real phone phreaks are "telecommunications hobbyists" who
experiment, play with and learn from the phone system.  Occasionally this
experimenting, and a need to communicate with other phreaks (without going
broke), leads to free calls.  The free calls are but a small subset of a TRUE
phone phreaks activities.
        Until several years ago, the phreaks main tool for free calls was the
Blue Box.  In recent years however, Bell has made GREAT strides in their
security and detection of Blue Box's.  While box's still work, their use is
becoming EXTREMELY dangerous.  With the advent of CCIS, the places where a Blue
Box will work are rapidly decreasing, and within several years the Box will be
totallt obsolete.
        Thus for their communications needs, phreaks have turned to other
methods, one being: WATS EXTENDERS.
        Many companies throughout the United States have a salesman in the
field that must contact a large amount of customers long distance by phone. To
pay for these calls, generally the salesman use the companies Bell credit card
(Now called a "Calling Card") this is quite expensive to the company.
        Several years ago, someone came up with a neat money saving idea.
Since the company already had an an INWATS (800) number for salesmen to call in
orders to the main plant, and since the company had a flat rate OUTWATS line to
call customers during the day.  Why not couple them together after hours so
that the salesman calls the companies INWATS 800 number, then gets connected up
to OUTWATS.  This would mean he could call anywhere in the United States. from
anywhere at no charge to him!  This arrangement would save the company
tremendous amounts of long distance charges since they had the WATS lines
anyway, and the WATS was a lot more cost efficient than Credit Cards.
        This arrangement was exactly how early "WATS EXTENDERS" worked.
        During WATS (800) scanning (For how to do this, read "Napolean Solo's"
EXCELLENT article in issue 55) phreaks discovered these WATS EXTENDERS, and
found they could call anywhere in the country just by calling the extenders 800
number, then (Using Touch Tone of course) dial the number they wanted.
        The companies soon realized that their extenders were being messed with
and decided to add some security to prevent tampering.
        It was set up so that when a salesman dialed the WATS EXTENDER, he
would hear what sounds like a dial tone.  The salesman then keyed in a four
digit Touch Tone secret access code.  If the code was incorrect a high-low tone
would result, and the extender would have to be re-dialed.  If the code was
correct, and second internal PBX dial tone would result.  The salesman would
then access the companies OUTWATS line by hitting 8 or 9 (usually) and dial
wherever he wanted.
        The four digit access code posed a problem to phreaks since only 1 out
of 9999 possible codes worked, and the 800 number had to be re-dialed each time
and try another.
        Many a phone phreak spent long nights breaking the four digit codes and
then using the extenders themselves!  Most companies change the code every few
months so the phreaks would have to start over again.  (Also company employees
that were not authorized to know, but found out from "leaks").
        Many of you have probably heard of the infamous computer "Charlie".
For those who haven't, several years ago Charlie was brought to life by Capn
Crunce (Now retired from the communications service) Charlie was an Apple ][
computer with a special board which allowed it to Touch Tone dial numbers
extremely rapidly (D/A) then "listen" to the results (A/D).
        Charlie was put to use calling a given WATS EXTENDER, trying an access
code, if the high-low tone was heard (meaning an incorrect code), Charlie hung
up and dialed again, trying the next sequential code.  Charlie would sit
working for hours, and when it found the code, it would print it on it's
display screen.  VERY effective!
        Unfortunately the only problem with Charlie was the he was very
noticeable to Bell.  Every time an 800 number is dialed, and AMA record is
punched at the C.O. thus it looks real phunny to Bell to see that you have
called Dry Dock orange shippers 800 number in Florida 3,750 times at 2:00 AM
with each call lasting 1 second!  Since Charlie was not very easily portable to
pay phones this was a real problem.
        There are many WATS EXTENDERS reportedly presently in service.  Most
working as described, with some taking more than a four digit code, and some
even responding to voice input!
        It should be pointed out however, that should any of you crack any WATS
EXTENDER access codes and attempt to use them, you are gulity of Theft of
communications services from the company who owns it, and Bell is very willing
and able to help nail you!  WATS EXTENDERS can get you in every bit as much
trouble as a Blue Box should you be caught.
        Most WATS EXTENDERS also record all numbers call from them on OUTWATS.
If the company detects the extender being mis-used, they will usually first try
to change the access code.  If the abuse continues and the get mad enough they
will contact Bell who will help them investigate all the numbers you called!
        Thus, as in most things those of you who are determined to play with
WATS EXTENDERS, do so from a pay phone and only to institutional switchboards,
or people with short memories.  By the way, on some "Money First" payphones (as
as opposed to "Dial Tone First") the Touch Tone pad is cut off after the WATS
call is complete. (Because of polarity reversal)  It can be re-activated by
depositing a dime after the connection is made, which you will get back after
you hang up.
        Also please remember the opening of this article.  DO NOT use WATS
EXTENDERS just to make free calls all the time!  Experiment with them and learn
what they can do and how they work.  I think you will learn a lot!!


