
                                                  August 10, 1988


Picaware Developments
Agent:SoftIce Software
P.O. Box 379
Fort Langley, BC
Canada, V0X-1J0



                   WildDialer Version 2.0 Docs


WHAT IS A "WAR GAMES DIALER"?

     In short, a War Games Dialer is any program that dials every 
number  in a series and checks for carriers.   By running such  a 
program over a series of phone numbers, you will get a listing of 
which numbers have comuters at them.

     This  can be used for several reasons,  some of them  legal, 
some  not.   I certainly do not advocate the use of this  program 
for anything that would be considered illegal.

     
ESS:

     Before  you  go  zipping  off  the  touch-tones,   there  is 
something you should understand about the telephone company.   In 
most  major metropolitan areas,  they use ESS.   ESS  stands  for 
Electronic Switching System.   ESS is,  in a nutshell, Orwellian.  
With it, the phone company knows EVERY SINGLE BUTTON you press on 
your phone, mistakes included.

     Now,  the purpose of this program is to scan every number in 
a  series and it is possible (though it has never happened to  me 
and I have scanned every phone prefix in Vancouver...more than 30 
of them) that the phone company will be wondering what you are up 
to.  REMEMBER: It is not illegal to make a phone call.  Don't let 
the phone company scare you.  You have done nothing wrong.

 
WHY?

     Ok, I admit it.  This program was motivated out of spite.

     When I saw "ULTRA3",  which proclaims to be the "Ultimate in 
War Games Dialers", frankly, I was appaled.
 
     It didn't support pulse dialing, it only allowed COM ports 1 
and  2.   It required 42K to run (as opposed to just under 17  in 
Wdial200). In short, it was an incomplete program.
 
     And so I sat down and wrote WildDialer Version 2.  Version 1 
was  really awful,  written 2 years ago when I was a novice  with 
TurboPascal.  Version  2 represents a large leap over it,  and as
far as I know, over any other War Games Dialer that I have seen.


ABOUT THE PROGRAM

     WDIAL200 is special for a number of reasons:
 
  1. It  uses the most rudimentary techniques for modem  control, 
     using  a  minimum of AT commands,  this should  ensure  that 
     almost  any  kind of modem can run WDIAL.   If  yours  can't 
     please drop me a line and tell me what kind of modem you are 
     running so I can either fix it or post it.

  2. It  requires  only 17K to run.   Version 3 will be a  memory 
     resident program that runs in the background.

  3. WDIAL allows COM ports 1 to 4.  

  4. WDIAL  keeps  track of busy numbers and  calls  them  again.  
     This  is the ONLY program of its kind that does this as  far 
     as I know.

  5. Like all other PicaWare products, if you see a bug, or think 
     that a modification would be in order, all you have to do is 
     send  me a note saying what it is.   I am always looking for 
     projects.

  6. This IS NOT SHAREWARE.   This is released completely to  the 
     public  domain.   If  you  use it,  all I ask is  for  a  $5 
     donation and a copy of any scanning you may do, so I can add 
     it to my master list.    


HOW TO USE WDIAL:

     WDIAL  is  designed  to be easy to use,  it  will  step  you 
through  the set-up parameters (use the up and down arrow keys to 
adjust any parameter that needs changing) and will  automatically 
add  any long distance codes needed.   The only tricky part about
it  is the AREA CODE section.   Only use this if you are  dialing
long  distance,  otherwise,  just  strike >RETURN< to  get  local
calls.

     During the dialing,  the 'A' key will abort the search,  and
the space bar will skip to the next number.


QUIRKS:

     Because  I used the most rudimentary way to hang up,  it may
take  a  while for the program to recover after it  has  found  a
carrier.   Basically  what it does is it tells the modem to  hang
up.   If  the modem fails to hang up it just waits for the  other
modem to hang up.

     In  testing this has taken between 30 seconds to 10 minutes.
The average is about 1 minute.   Sorry for any inconvinience, but
I was tired of seeing programs that only supported such and  such 
modem.   I am hoping that the other features of this program will 
make up for it.

     On  average,  this program takes 42 seconds per phone number 
(with the delay left at the default of 20 seconds).   This  means 
an  average of 800 numbers per night.   (I recommend running this 
program at night.  You will encounter less busy signals).

     This program does not write to the printer.   The reason  is 
simple.   I  suggest  this program be run at  night,  why  bother 
having the printer going off every so often?   I am quite certain 
you know how to use the DOS PRINT command.
 

DISCLAIMER:

     Ah, the disclaimer.
 
     I  do  not take any resposibility for  any  damages  (legal, 
physical  or  otherwise)  that arise from the execution  of  this 
program.   I  do  not advocate the use of this  program  for  any 
purpose that could be deemed illegal.

                                             Jeff House
                                             August 10, 1988


AUTHORS BLURB:

     Well,  there it is.   Use it in good health.   Remember,  if
you  find a fault in the program,  or you think that a particular
modification would be good, don't hesitate to drop me a line.


ANOTHER THING:

     Hey  there Sysop's,  want ld callers to call?  Fine then, for the 
cost of one measly stamp you can have your name included in the "North 
American BBS Registry"


     Just send in the attached form and be listed!      
     (If you can't afford less than 50 cents, Wow.)

     NA BBS REGISTRY
     P.O. Box 379
     Fort Langley, B.C.
     Canada V0X-1J0

     That's it, no cost or nothing.

     The  list gets uploaded to a number of distributers who upload it 
to boards in their area,  the users are encouraged to upload to  their 
favorite bbs's etc.

     So  if you want to be advertised across the continent,  send us a 
line.

     I  can also be contacted on a fair amount of Major boards (Rob Mitzel or 
     Dr. Ice or Docice on Shoreline) if that  would be easier.

                                                              Dr. Ice




-------------------------------------------------
!                                               !
!              NA BBS REGISTRY FORM             !  
!                                               !
!                                               !
! BBS Name:                                     !
! Telephone Number:                             !
!                                               !
! Sysop Name:                                   !
! Baud Rates:                                   !
!                                               !
! X-fer Storage (if any):                       !
! Type of Xfers (if any):                       !
!                                               !
! City:                                         !
!                                               !
! Specialties:                                  !
!                                               !
-------------------------------------------------                                                                              
