
               MILLIONS NOW LIVING ARE ALREADY DEAD!

   What is this - double talk?  A paradox?  Some kind of joke?  

   Neither  of  these  -  Just  a way to call your attention to a 
universal situation because statistical facts "hammer  home"  the 
startling  information that 68 million flesh and blood people die 
every year.  Death is a big business with  160,000  people  dying 
every day.  It's a deadly and frightening fact of life.  

   O.K.,  so you're young - heathy and full of the old "spizzas!" 
The truth is you're already on the Death  list.  You,  like  many 
others,  may  be  dead  already.  The  unshakeable  Word  of  God 
declares that millions now apparently ALIVE  are  actually  dead.  
Spiritually dead.  Listen to the Creator's words!  

      "And  you  (believers  in Christ) hath he (God) made alive, 
   who were dead in trespasses and sins." Ephesians 2:1 

   It is God who said: 

      "Wherefore,  as by one man sin entered into the world,  and 
   death by sin;  and so death passed upon all men,  for that all 
   have sinned." Romans 5:12 

   Which means,  my friend,  that if you have not been born anew, 
you  carry  Adam's  death  penalty  in  your  soul.  You  may  be 
physically  in  your  soul.  You  may  be  physically  alive  but 
spiritually dead,  and therefore,  have no contact with God.  God 
in great mercy provided a glorious way out through His Son.  Here 
is His guarantee: 

      "But as many as recieved Him,  to them  gave  He  power  to 
   become  the  sons  of  God,  even  to them that believe on His 
   name." John 1:12 

      "He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life; and he 
   that believeth not the Son shall not see life;  but the  wrath 
   of God abideth on him." John 3:36 

      "Verily,  verily,  I say unto you, He that heareth my Word, 
   and believeth on Him that sent me, hath everlasting life,  and 
   shall  not  come  into comdemnation;  but is passed from death 
   unto life." John 5:24 

   By recieving Christ as your Saviour by faith,  you  will  come 
alive spiritually.  You will also come alive in understanding the 
Bible,  God's Word.  You will come alive with new desires,  Godly 
desires.  You will come alive with a hope burning in  your  heart 
of knowing that there will be life after death, life with Christ.  

   Would  you right now,  from a repentant heart,  cry out to God 
with this prayer?  

      "Believing the Gospel,  that the Lord Jesus Christ died for 
   me,  and  that He was buried for me,  and rose again the third 
   day from the dead for me, I now recieve Him as my Saviour, and 
   confess Him as my Lord." 

                  Charles Svoboda

From the S.O.N. BBS, WI

