

                           Jesus Christ The Son of God

Christianity differs from all religions, because it is more than a religion --
it is the life of the Son of God made living in man.  He is the supreme subject
of each book of the New Testament, and fulfills all the promises of God in the
Old Testament, from His incarnation to His Second Coming as "Lord of lords and
King of kings."

     [Revelation 17:12-14 NT] "And the ten horns which you saw are ten kings,
     who have not yet received a kingdom, but they receive authority as kings
     with the beast for one hour.  These have one purpose and they give their
     power and authority to the beast.  These will wage war against the Lamb,
     and the Lamb will overcome them, because He is Lord of lords and King of
     kings, and those who are with Him are the called and chosen and faithful."
     
He is the God-man Christ Jesus in glory, exalted above all creatures.  Jesus
said, "All authority has been given to Me in heaven and on earth" [Matthew 28:18
NT].

During His earthly ministry, He claimed to be God incarnate (in human flesh). 
He is all that He claimed to be, or He is less than the least.

     [Revelation 1:4-8 NT] John to the seven churches that are in Asia: Grace to
     you and peace, from Him who is and who was and who is to come; and from the
     seven Spirits who are before His throne;  and from Jesus Christ, the
     faithful witness, the first-born of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of
     the earth.  To Him who loves us, and released us from our sins by His
     blood, and He has made us to be a kingdom, priests to His God and Father;
     to Him be the glory and the dominion forever and ever. Amen.  Behold, He is
     coming with the clouds, and every eye will see Him, even those who pierced
     Him; and all the tribes of the earth will mourn over Him.  Even so. Amen. 
     "I am the Alpha and the Omega," says the Lord God, "who is and who was and
     who is to come, the Almighty."

Before His claim can be denied, there are some things that must be accounted
for:
	His virgin birth;
	His holy, sinless life;
	His many miracles;
	His vicarious death and His bodily resurrection.

                                        
                            THE DEITY OF JESUS CHRIST
                                        
[John 1:1-5 NT] "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
the Word was God.  He was in the beginning with God.  All things came into being
by Him, and apart from Him nothing came into being that has come into being.  In
Him was life, and the life was the light of men.  And the light shines in the
darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it."

The deity of Jesus Christ, or His God nature, is well established in the New
Testament.  Some of the facts are:

	(1) He is called God by the Apostle John (above verse 1).

	(2) He is called God by the Apostle Thomas.

           [John 20:28 NT] "Be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock,
           among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the
           church of God which He purchased with His own blood."

	(3) He is called God by God the Father.

           [Hebrews 1:1-8 NT] God, after He spoke long ago to the fathers in the
           prophets in many portions and in many ways, in these last days has
           spoken to us in His Son, whom He appointed heir of all things,
           through whom also He made the world.  And He is the radiance of His
           glory and the exact representation of His nature, and upholds all
           things by the word of His power.  When He had made purification of
           sins, He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high; having
           become as much better than the angels, as He has inherited a more
           excellent name than they.  For to which of the angels did He ever
           say, "THOU ART MY SON, TODAY I HAVE BEGOTTEN THEE"?  And again, "I
           WILL BE A FATHER TO HIM, AND HE SHALL BE A SON TO ME" ?  And when He
           again brings the firstborn into the world, He says, "AND LET ALL THE
           ANGELS OF GOD WORSHIP HIM."  And of the angels He says, "WHO MAKES
           HIS ANGELS WINDS, AND HIS MINISTERS A FLAME OF FIRE."  But of the Son
           He says, "THY THRONE, O GOD, IS FOREVER AND EVER, AND THE RIGHTEOUS
           SCEPTER IS THE SCEPTER OF HIS KINGDOM."

	(4) He claimed to be God in that He was with the Father before creation.

           [John 17:1-5 NT] These things Jesus spoke; and lifting up His eyes to
           heaven, He said, "Father, the hour has come; glorify Thy Son, that
           the Son may glorify Thee, even as Thou gavest Him authority over all
           mankind, that to all whom Thou hast given Him, He may give eternal
           life.  And this is eternal life, that they may know Thee, the only
           true God, and Jesus Christ whom Thou has sent.  I glorified Thee on
           the earth, having accomplished the work which Thou has given Me to
           do.  And now, glorify Thou Me together with Thyself, Father, with the
           glory which I had with Thee before the world was."

	(5) He claimed to be God in that He was before Abraham.

           [John 8:51-59 NT] "Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps My
           word he shall never see death."  The Jews said to Him, "Now we know
           that You have a demon.  Abraham died, and the prophets also; and You
           say, 'If anyone keeps Me word, he shall never taste of death.' 
           Surely You are not greater than our father Abraham, who died?  The
           prophets died too; whom do You make Yourself out to be?"  Jesus
           answered, "If I glorify Myself, My glory is nothing; it is My Father
           who glorifies Me, of whom you say, 'He is our God'; and you have not
           come to know Him, but I know Him; and If I say that I do not know
           Him, I shall be a liar like you, but I do know Him, and keep His
           word.  Your father Abraham rejoiced to see My day, and he saw it and
           was glad."  The Jews therefore said to Him, "You are not yet fifty
           years old, and have You seen Abraham?"  Jesus said to them, "Truly,
           truly, I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am."  Therefore they
           picked up stones to throw at Him; but Jesus hid Himself, and went out
           of the temple.

	(6) He received worship, and only God is to be worshiped.

           [Matthew 14:33 NT] And those who were in the boat worshiped Him,
           saying, "You are certainly God's Son!"

	    Angels refused worship.

           [Revelation 22:8,9 NT] And I, John, am the one who heard and saw
           these things.  And when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship at
           the feet of the angel who showed me these things.  And he said to me,
           "Do no do that; I am a fellow servant of yours and of your brethren
           the prophets and of those who heed the words of this book; worship
           God."

	    Man refused worship.

           [Acts 10:25,26 NT] And when it came about that Peter entered,
           Cornelius met him, and fell at his feet and worshiped him.  But Peter
           raised him up, saying, "Stand up; I too am just a man."

	(7) He forgives sin.  Only God can forgive sin.

           [Mark 2:1-12 NT] And when He had come back to Capernaum several days
           afterward, it was heard that He was at home.  And many were gathered
           together, so that there was no longer room, even near the door; and
           He was speaking the word to them.  And they came, bringing to Him a
           paralytic, carried by four men.  And being unable to get to Him
           because of the crowd, they removed the roof above Him; and when they
           had dug an opening, they let down the pallet on which the paralytic
           was lying.  And Jesus seeing their faith said to the paralytic, "My
           son, your sins are forgiven."  But there were some of the scribes
           sitting there and reasoning in their hearts, "Why does this man speak
           that way?  He is blaspheming; who can forgive sins but God alone?" 
           And immediately Jesus, aware in His spirit that they were reasoning
           that way within themselves, said to them, "Why are you reasoning
           about these things in your hearts?  Which is easier, to say to the
           paralytic, `Your sins are forgiven'; or to say, `Arise, and take up
           your pallet and walk'?  But in order that you may know that the Son
           of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins" -- He said to the
           paralytic -- "I say to you, rise, take up your pallet, and go home." 
           And he rose and immediately took up the pallet and went out in the
           sight of all; so that they were all amazed and were glorifying God,
           saying, "We have never seen anything like this."

	(8) He is creator and maker of all things.

           [Colossians 1:13-17 NT] For He delivered us from the domain of
           darkness, and transferred us to the kingdom of His beloved Son, in
           whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.  And He is the
           image of the invisible God, the first-born of all creation.  For by
           Him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth,
           visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or
           authorities -- all things have been created by Him and for Him.  And
           He is before all things, and in Him all things hold together.

	(9) He is sustainer of all things.  Only God can control the universe.

           [Hebrews 1:1-3 NT] God, after He spoke long ago to the fathers in the
           prophets in many portions and in many ways, in these last days has
           spoken to us in His Son, whom He appointed heir of all things,
           through whom also He made the world.  And He is the radiance of His
           glory and the exact representation of His nature, and upholds all
           things by the word of His power.  When He had made purification of
           sins, He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high;

	(10) He claimed to have "all authority ... in heaven and on earth."  God
		has all authority.

           [Matthew 28:18-20 NT] And Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying,
           "All authority has been given to Me in heaven and on earth.  Go
           therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in
           the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them
           to observe all that I commanded you; and lo, I am with you always,
           even to the end of the age."

	(11) He walked upon the blue waters of Galilee.  The winds and the waves
		obeyed His command.  He healed the sick and raised the dead.  He gave
		sight to the blind and hearing to the deaf.  He cast out demons and
		made the lame to walk.  He turned water to wine, and fed five thousand
		with the lunch of a lad.
d he saw it and
           was glad."  The Jews therefore said to Him, "You are not yet fifty
           years old, and have You seen Abraham?"  Jesus said to them, "Truly,
           truly, I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am."  Therefore they
           picked up stones to throw at Him; but Jesus hid Himself, and went out
           of the temple.

	(6) He received worship, and only God is to be worshiped.

           [Matthew 14:33 NT] And those who were in the boat worshiped Him,
           saying, "You are certainly God's Son!"

	    Angels refused worship.

           [Revelation 22:8,9 NT] And I, John, am the one who heard and saw
           these things.  And when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship at
           the feet of the angel who showed me these things.  And he said to me,
           "Do no do that; I am a fellow servant of yours and of your brethren
           the prophets and of those who heed the words of this

