
                        GIVING YOUR PERSONAL TESTIMONY

WHY?

One of the most exciting and interesting ways to share Jesus is to give a 
personal testimony. Your testimony is the basis of your witness. It is your 
story, your firsthand account of what God through Christ has done in your 
life. 

Your testimony has authority. Many questions about the Bible you may not be 
able to answer, but you are the authority on your testimony. 

This guide will help you learn how to report your experience with Jesus in 
simple language. 

WHAT?

At the end of this guide you should be able to understand the importance of 
your testimony in witnessing and be able to share it with others. 

HOW?

You will achieve this goal by:
 
Identifying the four points that should be included in a personal testimony 

Writing out your testimony

Reading your testimony to a friend (or typing it up in a message on this BBS) 

Read I John 1:1-3. In these verses, John literally shares his tesimony. Those 
things which had seen and heard, he was telling others. Many times the Apostle 
Paul effectively gave his testimony. Sharing your testimony is one the most 
effective ways to witness for Jesus Christ. 

These are three basic characteristics of a personal testimony:

 1. IT HAS AUTHORITY. You may not be able to answer many questions about the 
    Bible; however, you are the only authority in the area of your experience
    with Jesus Christ as your Savior and Lord.

 2. IT COMMUNICATES. It reaches out and expresses to people your very heart 
    and life. You are not talking merely in theological terms, you are 
    speaking about the things in life with which you are familiar. You are
    telling others what you have experienced with Jesus Christ. 
 
 3. IT RELATES. As you talk about your experiences with God you are relating
    with people whose lives are like yours and who are seeking to understand
    the change that Jesus has brought about in your life.

Paul gives his testimony in Acts 22:1-16 and 26:9-23. He says almost the same 
thing using a simple four-point outline. First, Paul says, "I have not always 
been a Christian, but God showed me my need of Jesus Christ. I committed my 
life to Jesus and now my life is different." 

Read those passages and then list the four points in Paul's outline.
 
1.

2.

3.

4.


You should have something like:

 1. My life before Jesus.
 2. How I realized I needed Jesus.
 3. How I received Jesus.
 4. How Jesus makes my life full and meaningful now.

Review these four points. You will use them in preparing your testimony. 
Simple facts to remember are: 

Your testimony is important. If it is important to you, it will become 
important to other people. 

As you prepare your testimony, seek the leadership of the Holy Spirit. Because 
you will have a very brief encounter with each person, it is necessary for you 
to seek the Holy Spirit's leadership in preparing to share your testimony. 

God honors preparation. Carefully prepare your testimony so you can 
effectively share Jesus Christ. 

Remember the four points of a testimony. The first three points are past 
history. Once you verbalize those, you will be prepared to share them anytime, 
any place. The fourth point is current and refreshing - how Jesus Christ is 
dealing in your life now, how He is making life meaningful. Your sharing the 
growth and daily relationship with Jesus makes vibrant and meaningful what God 
is doing in your life. 

Keep your testimony short. It should be from one minute to one and a half 
minutes or about 275 words. Use short, simple phrases. 

Keep your testimony to the point. Remember, you are not describing the 
theology of how to be saved. You are simply sharing what Christ has done in 
your life. Yet you need to give adequate detail. You are expressing to a 
person an intangible experience. The simple details of your experience relate 
what has happened in your heart and in your life. As you share your testimony, 
you live it. 

A person might criticize, "Preparing your testimony is mechanical." Actually, 
as you share your testimony and relive the experience, God through the Holy 
Spirit can give your testimony a new thrust, a new dynamic and a new meaning, 
refreshing your heart and life. 

Avoid bragging or negative remarks. Bragging about personal accomplishments 
does not glorify God. Paul said in Phil. 3:7, "But what things were gain to 
me, those I counted as loss for Christ." Boasting should be about Jesus Christ 
and what he has done. Negative comments lead toward a negative discussion. 
Keep your testimony positive, pointed and simple. Ask yourself, "If I were a 
person without Jesus or outside the fellowship of the family of God, what 
would this testimony mean to me?" 

As you prepare your testimony, carefully consider your words. Use language 
people understand. Often these are unfamiliar words and unfamiliar church 
organizations. Phrases such as: "I walked the aisle for Jesus," "I was saved," 
"I was lost," or "I had a glorious experience" are meaningless to people who 
are unfamiliar with church vocabulary. Use words and phrases that will help 
others understand your testimony. 
 
A SAMPLE TESTIMONY:
 
I was born three blocks from the county courthouse in Fort Worth, Texas. My 
father left my mother before I was born. In my early childhood - during the 
depression - my mother sought security. She met and married a man whom she 
thought would offer the security she so desperately needed. I grew up in what 
I thought was a normal home, a home similar to other homes. But there was a 
noticeable void. My life lacked real meaning and purpose. 

As a young man I began looking, searching and longing for meaning and purpose 
in life. For a while, I really did not find what I was looking for. Then I 
noticed a difference in the lives of some friends. That difference was Jesus. 
Jesus had made a change in their lives. I began to see in them what I wanted 
and needed. 
 
After one of my friends told me how to become a Christian, I very simply 
turned from my old way of life and invited Jesus Christ to come and live in 
me. No Roman candles burst. No bands played. But in a very real way I knew 
that God had come live in me. 
 
I cannot say every day since then has been beautiful and that I've been 
perfect. I'm human. But I continue to grow and develop and mature. One thing I 
know - Jesus Christ has always been faithful. He has helped, guided and 
blessed me. Now my life has real meaning. 

Now please take the time and write your testimony out using the four points 
discussed earlier. Keep it to about 275 simple, understandable words. 
 

