LESSONS of FAITH - 1

     It  ÿwas ÿin the bag. ÿHe was clutching it like it ÿwas ÿthe  
last ÿthing he owned. ÿAnd it was. ÿThe attendants had to pry ÿit 
from ÿhis ÿhands. ÿWhen  they opened it, ÿthey ÿfound ÿover ÿ3000 
dollars, ÿÿmostly small bills. ÿBy some standards, ÿhe  might ÿbe 
considered rich, but you see, he wasn't. He was poor,  ÿwandering 
the ÿstreets, ÿsleeping in alleys and doorways, ÿbegging for food 
and ÿmoney. ÿÿHe ÿhad found a good area where ÿthe  ÿpeople ÿwere 
generous. ÿHe asked and they gave. Yet, when they found him, dead 
from ÿthe ÿcold and lack of good food, ÿhis clothes were old ÿand 
dirty, ÿand his pockets were empty. ÿAll he had was that bag ÿand 
3000 dollars. What happened? 

     What ÿhappened is that he failed to follow one  of the ÿmost 
important ÿteachings in the Bible. ÿGod's principle of Use. ÿThis 
same ÿprinciple is rarely applied in many of our own lives, ÿÿand 
yet it is easily recognized as "missing" ÿin others. The man with 
the bag failed to apply the principle. ÿHe was keeping all he had 
hid in a paper bag. He was saving for a rainy day. He was so busy 
saving ÿfor an unsure future, ÿhe failed to see the storm ÿaround 
him, ÿÿand he ended up dead on the sidewalk, ÿclutching his ÿonly 
belonging.  It was in the bag.  

     That which he cared so much about is now useless to him. ÿHe 
didn't use what he had. ÿHe kept it hid in a bag, while he wasted 
away. He didn't spend a cent for food, clothing, or anything. ÿHe 
kept saving, saving, saving! Now it's too late. He didn't use it.  
It was in the bag. 

     Are ÿyou holding on to all you have? ÿAre you afraid to ÿuse 
it? Are you saving for a rainy day?  Don't! Don't die holding the 
bag! ÿÿGod wants you to use your talents and your resources. ÿÿHe 
gave ÿthem ÿto you, ÿnot so you can hide them in a bag, ÿÿbut ÿto 
display ÿto ÿall ÿfor His Glory! ÿJesus, ÿin the parable ÿof ÿThe 
Talents, ÿÿwas pleased at the servants that used what ÿthey ÿwere 
given ÿand ÿangry at the servant that buried his portion ÿin ÿthe 
ground. ÿ(See Matt. ÿ25:14) ÿJesus even instructs us not to ÿsave 
treasures ÿon ÿearth where moth and dust ÿcorrupt, ÿÿand ÿthieves 
steal, ÿbut to save treasures in heaven, ÿfor where our treasures 
are, our heart will be also. (Matt. 6:19) 

     Please, take it out of the bag!

                                          LRH 10/10/85


