                              JOURNEY THROUGH THE HEART
    
    Though dark and gloomy my story may be,
         but so very vital to you and to me.
    The subject is Sin and all it can do,
         so pay close attention, for many it slew.
    For us it began in a Garden so fair,
         who`d ever think that Sin would hide there?
    The Serpent did slither on this Hallowed Ground,
         a victim was surely there to be found.
    So unsuspecting as Sin did draw near...
         Eve was there waiting; Sin`s target - her ear!
    "What did God tell thee ?" Sin did inquire.
         "Of this we may NOT eat...", Sin roared, "He`s a Liar !"
    She saw it was lovely so with Adam she shared
         Sin crouched in the darkness...his victims were snared !
    So delightful a setting this Garden Divine,
         where not only man, but Sin did first dine.
    Sin`s fruit, Oh so sweet, he ate to his fill,
         'twas not only Adam, but Mankind his kill.
    Since then Sin's been feasting, the world is his table,
         now WE are his fruit, to escape we're unable.
    Just how can we KNOW that WE'VE been his fare?
         we must look WITHIN and we'll find him there.
    He`s clever, that Serpent, doesn't want us to know...
         that OUR HEART`S been his CASTLE..., that he's been our foe
    Look close and be honest, he may be disguised...
         for all that you'll find there, you might be surprised.
    
    As we stand and we wonder, with entrance so wide
         DARE WE JOURNEY FORTH, to see what's inside?
    The outline looms heavy, we shiver with fright,
         we think to ourselves..."such an ominous sight."
    The gate, it is lowered, we see as we cross,
         this castle's not gleaming, `tis all filled with dross!
    Each step at a snail's pace, we come to the arch,
         the darkness surrounds us... more slowly we march.
    So dingy, so murky and blacker than night,
         can't see very clearly...we must have a light.
    But what can we use and where can we find,
         a reliable torch, that won't leave us blind?
    Yea, a light we must have, but also a Guide,
         to comprehend fully what in there does abide.
    As we stand here helpless, our vision still blurred,
         Behold, a White Charger...with God's Holy Word!
    His two-edged sword for us leads the way,
         what once had been darkness, is now bright as day!
    We creep down the hallway...seems so full of gloom,
         we reach the first chamber... we enter the room...
    With floors oh so dusty and webs all about,
         "Who doth reside here?", we say with a shout.
    We wait for an answer...there comes no reply...
         this room seems unlived in...we all wonder "why".
    We leave for the hallway..."no cause for alarm...
         a room that's this empty can do us no harm."
    Our trek we continue, we try every door,
         they seem never ending and still there's yet more.


    All chambers were bare, though covered with grime,
         no lodgers had been there for quite a long time.
    Single file we went onward, the path was so winding,
         but nary a boarder was there for the finding.
    Through doorways and hallways, 'twas truly a puzzle,
         this vacant old wasteland, our minds did bemuzzle.
    The coldness and dampness, to our bones it was felt,
         by now we decided that herein no one dwelt.
    As the exit drew near, we stepped up our pace,
         we just couldn't wait to leave such a place.
    We crossed o'er the mote, the gate, it rose slowly,
         we said to each other, "how impure...how unholy!"
    Out of that dungeon we now could think clearly,
         I pondered the place that I once thought of dearly.
    When I thought on my heart, 'twas visions of gold,
         but now that I've seen it, 'tis crusty with mold.
    Our Guide was still leading...He looked like a King...
         when we suddenly realized that He spoke not a thing!
    "We searched Lord and searched, but couldn't uncover,
         a trace of the evil, 'twas told we'd discover."
    Then abruptly He turned, and for us He unraveled,
         the truths of that mansion, and the trail that we travelled.
    This thought, as He spoke, I could not dismiss,
         that "never before had a man spake like this".
    His Words seemed to echo to the castle and back,
         of their power and persuasion there was surely no lack.
    He said at the outset, "Take care HOW you hear..."
         as back through the castle, our minds He did steer.
    "The things that doth dwell here, a man, doth defile..."
         I knew from that moment, my HEART was on TRIAL !
    "The rooms were not empty, just UNOCCUPIED,"
         I clung to His Words, as I sat mystified.
    "The heart is deceitful above all that you know,
         to trust what abides here shall bring misery and woe."
    My thoughts were discerned, for I wanted to ask,
         the NAMES of the tenants... this riddle unmask.
    But before I could speak, He began to disclose,
         that question I pondered...just WHO were my foes?
    "UNCLEANNESS, IDOLATRY, ENVY, and MALICE,"
         these were the Demons who lived in the palace!
    "GREEDINESS, JEALOUSY, ANGER, and SCORN,"
         He said they had been there ever since I was born.
    "CHEATING, and LYING, TALEBEARING, and STRIFE,"
         His Words thrust in deeply... they cut like a knife.
    "FIGHTINGS, BACKBITINGS," He went on to explore...
         "these are the things," said He, "I deplore."
    "These works of the flesh shall surely be known..."
         the ground shook around us at the sound of His tone!
    As to WHERE were these villians, my mind was perplexed,
         He answered precisely, for He knew what was next.
    "All shall be manifest, this treachery and sin..."
         but "WHERE COULD THEY BE?", I thought deep within.
    "OUT OF THE HEART proceeds evil things..."
         His Words came like rapiers, such grimness it brings.
    I froze as He told us that THEY'D GONE TO LABOR...
         to wreak havoc for ME, upon friend and neighbor!

    By this I was smitten, seemed to know all along...
         of the misery I'd caused...all the pain... all the wrong.
    We now knew the reason for the filth and the slime...
         with evils THIS BUSY, to return was no time.
    They were constantly working, from our hearts did they vent,
         we each knew too dearly, to whom they were sent.
    These workers were tireless, to rest was no need,
         they were sent with no mercy, this horrible breed.
    The past flashed before me, such pictures they brought,
         of so many people with whom I had fought.
    My head and my shoulders sank deep with despair,
         for all I had injured and treated unfair.
    In the midst of my groaning, our Lord did insist,
         that we look back behind us...to the FLAG that we missed.
    Waving on high above that dark manor,
         the word that was there, inscribed on the banner...
    Raging and flapping like the Fires of Hell,
         the name of the LANDLORD for us it did tell!
    Shattered and broken I lift up mine eyes...
          the word "S E L F" was upon it, and HOW PROUDLY IT FLIES!
    The silence was deafening, inside was this growing...
         that over MY heart, this flag was STILL BLOWING!
    With unquenchable thirst and Sin as my drink...
         in the Abyssal of Self, I continued to sink.
    My mouth hung wide open, my eyes closed with shame,
         a war raged within...no peace could I claim.
    Heart's song like a death march, it pounded much faster...
         each beat brought me nearer, to certain disaster!
    My foes marched before me, like SINS ON PARADE...
         and I was there General! What a fool have I played!
    That my heart was their FORTRESS, Oh I can't bear this load...
         the feelings inside me, like bombs they explode!
    With my mind as there battlefield and my soul as the spoil,
         my heart and God's Word continued to toil.
    Sin gave in not so easy...it gathered it's forces,
         I viewed in amazement, at all it's resources.
    REASON and LOGIC, EXCUSES and LIES,
         so unwilling Sin was to relinguish it's Prize.
    "I'm not so bad, I'd done some good deeds,"
         I soon was aware, 'twas LOGIC that pleads.
    EXCUSES came next, then LIES and then REASON...
         but all was revealed, to my heart this was TREASON!
    Not a thing my heart offered, before HIM could stand,
         it's foundation, you see, was built upon sand.
    His search light for me, had so clearly revealed,
         all of this wickedness, my heart had concealed.
    My defense was so useless, these sins I COMMITTED !
         But now came the truth of the things I OMITTED!
    "LONGSUFFERING, MEEKNESS, GOODNESS and JOY,"
         a heart without these, Sin would surely destroy.
    "SELF-CONTROL, FIDELITY, SHARING and PEACE,"
         without these within, Sin would always increase.

    "COMPASSION, HUMBLENESS, CHARITY, LOVE,
         every good gift comes down from above."
    But the worst of my crimes, those sins of omission,
         was...NO TIME FOR GOD, to Him - no submission!
    A moment perhaps, just one here or there,
         but to FIND WHAT HE WANTED...'twas no time to spare.
    Oh, I'd gone to church, I'd been there each Sunday...
         but I'd rather not say what I did on each Monday!
    I took time to pray...seems I wanted so much,
         so to Him I would turn...did I USE Him such???
    My Bible was there but it stayed on the shelf,
         too busy, I guess, in pursuits for MYSELF.
    His Name, I remember, was oft used in vain,
         my speech, to be honest, was mostly profane.
    I sat and reflected, overcome with such shame,
         MYSELF I had lived for...NO TIME FOR HIS NAME!
    His salvation for me, well, it held no appeal.
         This whole business of "God", it seemed so unreal!
    Death was far off, I could deal with that later...
         must live for the NOW, to MYSELF I must cater.
    All of these thoughts were just the conclusion,
         of a spirit so dead...of a heart of delusion.
    Deaf to His Word and Blind to His Scripture,
         my soul in a casket...what a horrible picture!
    That I counld do nothing, 'twas made very clear...
         my heart was depraved, it's state too severe.
    Within ME was NO CURE, I was TOTALLY LOST!
         For my God was no time, now I must pay the cost.
    
    Heart's Trial was fast closing...my soul seemed to wilt...
         the verdict was coming...'twas sure of my guilt!
    The offense of my life would demand the worst sentence,
         but with words sweet as honey...He spoke of REPENTANCE!
    I sat there astounded, not a thing did I merit...
     And yet His Kingdom was offered for me to inherit!
    His Arm rose up slowly, He beckoned me COME...
         A NEW HEART He'd give me...His plea left me numb.
    What could I do, with such a Grand Offer?
         Would YOU follow Him...or go on as a scoffer?
    The end of my story has NOT YET BEEN REACHED...
         but I leave it for now, and to YOU I beseech,
    Gird up your loins and draw nigh the Gate...
         take Heart's Journey yourself...before it's TOO LATE!
    
    
                                   RLW
    
             .W#04?