Nuggets of Truth

Too soon we get old and too late we get smart.

God created the home before He created the Church.

Between every promise and it's fullfillment is a wilderness. The way we
act determines how long it takes for us to get to the fulfillment.

The life that Christ lived, qualified Him for the death that He died. The
death that He died qualifies us for the life He lived. Jesus had to come
as He did to be what He was. He had to be what He was to do what He did.
He had to do what He did that we might have what he is. And we must have
what He is to be what He was and do what He did.

It's twice as important to finish a job as it is to start one.

When we become busy doing the do's, we won't have time to worry about the
don'ts.

Only God can count the apples in one seed. You never know how many lives
you're going to affect through one person that you minister to.

All spiritual experience comes from divine light on eternal truth. But
truth preached without light becomes doctrine. With divine light it becomes
revelation. Truth always comes in one form or the other. Doctrine genders
the law.  Revelation genders life.

A self chosen path is a path of trouble. A path chosen by God is straight,
simple, and furnished with God's guidance.

Satan cannot do anything to you apart from fear anymore than God can do
anything for you apart from faith.

Let no man curse the darkness if he will not light a candle.

The guy who says it can't be done always gets run over by the guy doing it.

A life that is walked in truth all day can lay down at night and sleep
without worry.

The power of my living for Christ is governed by the law of forgiveness.
The key to forgiveness is the emotion with which I remember. If it still
shakes me up, it's not been forgiven.

God is looking for men filled, not better methods.

The deep things are not discovered but received, not acheived but believed,
not taught but revealed, by the Spirit we know the things of God.

Faith will not function nor operate beyond obedience.

The more time we spend on out knees, the less trouble we'll have standing
on our feet.

The New Birth saves us fron the penalty of sin.  The Holy Spirit saves us
from the power of sin.  And the return of Jesus will save us from the
presence of sin.

Relationship without fellowship is like marriage without love.

We become the pivot point to every person we meet and they will never be
the same again.

Don't look for ways to get the money to come rolling in, look for ways to
get the WORD out and the money will come.

Love works the most.  Faith gets the most.  But humility keeps the most.

The WORD made speech is oratory. The WORD made print is literature. The
WORD made flesh is life.

The Lord is more interested in the quality of your sheep than the size of
your flock.

Before the lips can rightly declare the teaching of the scripture the
heart must be its home.  The words are the guideline to faith and obedience
to it's teaching is the secret of a life of victory.

Faith activates God like fear activates the devil.

In the beginning God created Adam and Eve,  NOT  Adam and Steve.

No man has a ministry of his own. We participate in Christ's ministry, it's
his vineyard.  If we realize that, we won't care what field we're in.

Hypocrites never pray in secret for prayers that are a pretense always
require an audience.

Your greatest strength can become your weakness.  Keep your strong soulish
nature under the spirit of God and learn to know the difference.

Through surrender we come to obedience. Through obedience we come to
overcoming.  Through overcoming we enter into inheritance.

Find out what God would have you do and then do that little well. For what
is great and what is small only He can tell.

Because of God's grace, the believer stands before the Throne in
righteousness that is spotless, in a life that is endless, and in a dignity
that is glorious.

Downloaded from the Computers for Christ BBS
(408) 997-2790 


