
                        He Gave the Very Best

.    A magazine article recently described the shopping spree of a
extremely rich man buying gifts for his family.  Among the things he
bought were nineteen Cadillacs, for which he paid extra to have them
lengthened.  Then he purchased two Porsches and six Mercedes, a
$40,000 speedboat and a truck to haul it in, sixteen refrigerators and
a stack of luggage.  For good measure he added two Florida grapefruit
trees, two reclining chairs and a slot machine.  The total bill was
$1,500,000 -- plus $194,000 to have it all delivered.
.    There are only a few people in the world as rich, or richer, than
that man.  When they give gifts, they can afford to give the best.
.    But all their possessions combined are nothing compared to the
vast wealth owned by Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
.    Jesus is the Creator of the Universe.  He said a word and
galaxies were born.  "For by Him were all things created, that are in
Heaven, and that are in earth ... all things were created by Him, and
for Him." (Colossians 1:16)
.    Christ is rich in power and position for He said, "All authority
is given unto Me in Heaven and in earth." (Matthew 28:18)  He knows
that true riches -- love, joy, peace -- cannot be purchased with a
credit card or check.  God knew that no amount of material wealth
could raise man out of his spiritual poverty.  So almost 2,000 years
ago He gave the best gift.  God sent His Son to be our Savior.  "For
ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though He was rich,
yet for your sakes He became poor, that ye through His poverty might
be rich." (2 Corinthians 8:9)
.    "He became poor."  While Jesus was on earth, He was poor in
possessions for He had no real home.  Even the tomb in which His
followers laid His body was borrowed.
.    But more than that, Jesus Christ, the Creator of the Universe,
took on the form and limitations of His creatures.  He became poor in
position, The first became last; the Sovereign became the Servant.
(Philippians 2:7)  Lepers came to Him and were made clean; the blind
asked for sight and received it.  Harlots came to His feet and were
forgiven.
.    But Jesus' greatest sacrifice was when He gave His life on the
Cross for you and me.  Salvation for our sins cost us nothing; it cost
Him everything.
.    How can Jesus make you rich?  By giving you Himself.  When you
receive the Savior, you have forgiveness of sins because of His death
for you. (Colossians 1:14)  Because He was raised from the dead and
now sits at the Father's right hand in Heaven, He gives you eternal
life and you are adopted into God's family. (John 5:24)  By God's
grace you become a "joint heir" with Christ. (Romans 8:17)  And daily
He Gives you power for living. (Philippians 4:13)
.    God gave the very best.  Are you spiritually poor?  You can be
rich.  The Bible says "If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord
Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised Him from
the dead, thou shalt be saved." (Romans 10:9)  Receive Him and the
Riches He died to give you can be yours.

-- Robin Sheffield

Computers for Christ - Chicago

