
                         THE GOSPEL OF

                        THE GRACE OF GOD

Dear friend,
.    If you would take a few minutes and read this message from
the Word of God, it will show you how you can have all of your
sins completely forgiven by God Almighty--once and for all.
.    But if reading this is making you uncomfortable, and you
would rather not face the truth about your sin problem, then just
throw it away.  But remember:  When you are burning in the Lake
of Fire and Brimstone for eternity because your sins were not
forgiven, you will remember this and the opportunity you had to
get them forgiven!
.    Now I must start by telling you the bad news, otherwise you
will never appreciate the good news.  Here is the bad news:

.    "For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God"
(Romans 3:23).

.    One example of a sin is telling a lie.  A lie is simply an
untrue statement.  So when you told your first lie, you became a
liar.  Therefore you are a sinner and you will be held
personally accountable to God. Almighty for every single sin you
have ever committed in word, thought or deed.  You then will
receive exactly what you earned for your sins:  DEATH!

.    "For the WAGES of SIN is death..." (Romans 6:23).

.    See the word wages?  A wage is something that you earn.  See
the word sin?  Did you notice the word sin is singular?
Therefore, all it takes is one sin to earn you death.

.    The reason that you will die physically one day is because
you are a sinner.  This will be your first death.  Than the split
second after you are dead, you soul will leave your body and you
will go down into the flames of HELL.  After that, you will stand
before God Almighty to be JUDGED for all of the sins you have
committed in your lifetime.

.    "And I saw a GREAT WHITE THRONE, and him that sat on
it...And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and
the books were opened...and the dead were JUDGED out of those
things which were written in the books, according to their
works" (Revelation 20:11,12).

.    Then after you have been truthfully judged by God Almighty
and declared GUILTY, you then will receive your just punishment.
You will be cast into the Lake of Fire and Brimstone where you
will burn forever and ever!

.    "...ALL LIARS, shall have their part in the lake which
burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the SECOND DEATH"
(Revelation 21:8).

.    Just try to imagine the excruciating torment you will
suffer because of your sins not being forgiven.  If you are
wondering how it will feel to be in the Lake of Fire, try holding
your hand in an open flame for just 10 seconds.  Now imagine
spending ETERNITY in a Lake of Fire and Brimstone!  You will
scream, wail and gnash your teeth.  And worst of all, you will
have NO HOPE of ever getting out.  Your punishment for eternity
will be to burn in the Lake of Fire and Brimstone FOREVER.  This
will be your second death...THE DEATH OF YOUR SOUL!  That's the
bad news.

.    Now answer these two questions:  Would you like to be saved
from the Lake of Fire?  If your answer is yes, then you must get
ALL of your sins forgiven so that you don't go there.
    
.    Next question:  Would you like to have all of your sins
completely forgiven by God Almighty?  If your answer is yes, the
Bible has some good news for you:

.    "Being JUSTIFIED freely by his GRACE through the REDEMPTION
that is in Christ Jesus:  Whom God hath set forth to be a
PROPITIATION..." (Romans 3:24,25).

.    See the word justified?  To be justified means to be
declared righteous as God Himself is righteous.  See the word
grace?  The grace of God is all that He is free to do for you.
And what the Lord Jesus Christ did at the Cross for you is called
redemption.  That means He freed you from your sin debt by paying
the price for those sins, which is death.  Therefore, when the
Lord Jesus Christ died for your sins on the Cross, He became a
propitiation for you.  A propitiation is a fully satisfying
sacrifice.  And the Lord Jesus Christ became that just for you:
a fully satisfying sacrifice to God Almighty for your sins.

.    But all of this good news will not help you one bit if you
don't obey the next five words in the verse:

.    "Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption
that is in Christ Jesus:  Whom God hath set forth to be a
propitiation THROUGH FAITH IN HIS BLOOD..." (Romans 3:24,25).

.    The blood of the Lord Jesus Christ that was shed on the
Cross is the ONLY sacrifice that God will accept as payment for
your sins.  So when the Word of God says you must put "faith in
his blood", that simply means to "make a decision in your heart
to trust completely and exclusively in the blood of the Lord
Jesus Christ as the total payment to God Almighty for your sins."

.    My friend, even though you are guilty and worthy of death,
God Almighty DESIRES to save you!  So if you want this free gift
of salvation, right now is your opportunity to receive it.

.    At this time you have the responsibility of making a
decision.  What are you going to trust in to have all of your
sins forgiven?  If you don't want to burn in the Lake of Fire and
for all eternity, the ONLY choice you may have is to trust in the
blood of the Lord Jesus Christ as the payment to God Almighty for
your sins.  I BEG YOU, make the decision right now to trust the
blood of the Lord Jesus Christ.  Then as soon as you do, God
Almighty will forgive you all of your sins AND save you from
spending eternity in the Lake of Fire.

                 THE CHOICE IS NOW UP TO YOU...

.    Well?  What did you decide?  If you have wisely decided to
trust only in the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ as the total
payment to God Almighty for your sins, let me say to you on the
authority of the INFALLIBLE WORD OF God that all of your sins
have been completely forgiven AND you are now saved from the Lake
of Fire!

.    "In whom (Christ) we have redemption through his blood, THE
FORGIVENESS OF SINS, according to the riches of his grace"
(Ephesians 1:7).

.    "...having forgiven you ALL trespasses" (Colossians 2:13).

.    "Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we shall
be SAVED FROM WRATH through Him"  (Romans 5:9).

.    Or, if you have foolishly decided not to trust the blood of
the Lord Jesus Christ, God Almighty has a question to ask you

.    "And thinkest thou this, O man...that thou shalt ESCAPE the
judgment of God?"  (Romans 2:3).

.    Well?  Do you really think that you will escape the
judgment of God?  If you do, you are DEAD WRONG because the Word
of God says:

.    "A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that
speaketh lies SHALL NOT ESCAPE"  (Proverbs 19:5).

.    My friend, wisely make that decision NOW, before it's too
late...


                         Marty Richling
                    Bolingbrook Bible Church
                        105 Talcott Court
                      Bolingbrook, IL 60439
                     Phone:  (312) 739-7973
    

