                              PAIN 

                       Meaning and purpose 
                   in the life of a Christian 


     The ÿexperience ÿof ÿpain, ÿin whatever ÿform ÿit ÿtakes ÿis 
universal.  ÿÿHuman ÿsuffering ÿis one of ÿthe ÿworld's ÿgreatest 
unanswered ÿquestions.  ÿÿEspecially ÿduring the newness ÿof ÿthe 
Christmas season, do we become more and more aware of the mystery 
involved ÿin ÿit.  ÿI'm not writing this article ÿto ÿattempt ÿan 
answer to the suffering question.  ÿI am writing instead, ÿsimply 
to ÿshare ÿsome ÿof my thoughts and experiences ÿon ÿthe ÿmatter.  
Also, ÿÿperhaps by examining my mistakes, ÿand efforts in dealing 
with pain, ÿyou will have something to fall back on when it comes 
your way ... as it inevitably will. 
     Just by way of background, I was on Cross Fire '75, the team 
to West Africa.  ÿI ÿspent much of the fifteen months we traveled 
in ÿpain, ÿand incredible fatigue.  ÿI ÿnever really took it ÿtoo 
seriously, ÿÿas ÿmost ÿof ÿus were sick ÿregularly.  ÿÿIt ÿbecame 
frustrating for me, and the entire team though, when my illnesses 
outweighed my healthy times.  ÿThe situation reached a crisis the 
final ÿmonth ÿof ÿteam when I just couldn't ÿcontinue.  ÿÿI ÿÿwas 
hospitalized ÿat ÿthe ÿend ÿof ÿAugust ÿ1976, ÿÿand ÿdue ÿto ÿthe 
persistence of a caring doctor, ÿdiscovered I was the victim (and 
had ÿbeen ÿfor years) ÿof an incurable, ÿand ÿoftentimes ÿcruelly 
painful ÿdisease called Systemic Lupus Erythemetosis.  ÿLupus for 
short.  The cause, and the cure remain unknown. 
     I remember laying in the hospital in a state of ÿdis-belief.  
My ÿhead ÿwhirled with questions, ÿbut none so prevalent ÿas ÿthe 
eternal "why?"  Why me ... why now ... why this?  I ÿwas suddenly 
faced with the reality that I would be dealing with pain on a day 
to ÿday ÿbasis for the rest of my life.  ÿIn the fear ÿthat ÿsuch 
thoughts bring, I began to observe the attitudes toward suffering 
in ÿthe ÿpeople ÿaround me.  ÿMost of us view pain ÿas ÿsomething 
alien, ÿÿsomething ÿto ÿeradicate ÿand be rid of ÿas ÿquickly ÿas 
possible.  This attitude may be fine when you deal with ills that 
are ÿtemporal, ÿdefinable, ÿand curable.  ÿBut not all ÿsuffering 
falls ÿinto those categories.  ÿWhat do we say to those ills ÿand 
accidents ÿÿthat ÿÿleave ÿtheir ÿvictims ÿpermanently ÿÿdisabled, 
disfigured, or mentally incapacitated?  ÿWe cannot simply dismiss 
them.  They are real, and difficult, and very much a mystery. 
     When a Christian deals with life situations, we must keep in 
mind ÿthe ÿfact that God is a mystery.  ÿHe cannot be defined ÿor 
explained by our limited knowledge.  ÿWho hasn't heard someone in 
desperation or grief ask the unanswerable "why?"  And who had the 
power and wisdom to respond?  Once we accept that sometimes there 
are ÿno ÿanswers, ÿat least for now, ÿwe experience a release ÿof 
those gnawing doubts, ÿand become free to start learning.  ÿÿWhen 
there ÿare ÿno answers, ÿonly questions for us, ÿwe must look ÿto 
Christ, ÿÿand ÿHis example.  ÿJesus felt.  ÿHe hurt and ÿlaughed, 
suffered ÿand died as we all must.  ÿHe was and is God incarnate, 
sensitive counselor to our despair, ÿas He has felt the very same 
pain we do.  ÿC.S. Lewis, upon the death of a dear friend, ÿwrote 
in his book A Grief Observed: 
     "When ÿI lay these questions before God, ÿI ÿget no ÿanswer.  
But, a rather special no answer.  It is not a locked door.  It is 
more ÿlike a silent, ÿcertainly not unkind gaze.  ÿAs ÿthough ÿHe 
shook His head, ÿnot in refusal, but waiving the question.  Like, 
'Peace Child, you don't understand." 
     The ÿenigma of pain reflects the mystery of God.  ÿIt begins 
as a journey of trust.  We can choose to accept and deal with our 
frailty, ÿÿor, ÿlike Ivan Dostoevsky stated, ÿ"If God offered ÿme 
suffering ÿas a pass through life, ÿI ÿfor one would ÿreturn ÿthe 
ticket."  ÿWe can face, ÿand even learn from the realities of our 
humanity, or we can run from them. 
     Why ÿmust suffering remain a mystery?  ÿI ÿcan't give a ÿpat 
answer, ÿÿbut isn't it true that the times we are closest to ÿthe 
Lord ÿare those times we have no control?  ÿFor me these are also 
the hours of my greatest sensitivity and compassion to those near 
me.  ÿÿIt's ÿonly when our efforts to rationalize ÿand ÿeradicate 
seemingly useless pain are gone, ÿand we reach the end of our own 
rope, ÿwe see Christ's strength available to us.  ÿIf the mystery 
were ÿfully explained, ÿthere would be no crisis.  ÿMost of ÿall, 
there ÿwould ÿbe no need of our faith walk with God.  ÿÿPain ÿand 
suffering are not some type of Cosmic Character Builders sent ÿby 
the ÿAlmighty.  ÿThey are however, ÿused by Him to strengthen and 
cleanse our relationship to Him and to each other. 
     As ÿChristians ÿwe ÿbelieve that God's ÿpromises ÿare ÿtrue.  
Romans 8:28 ÿreminds us that the Lord is ever present and working 
in our trials.  Sometimes this is comforting, but often, the pain 
is still there, ÿand still very hard to cope with.  ÿJust because 
we ÿknow we are living a mystery, ÿand God is using it, ÿÿdoesn't 
make ÿit hurt any less.  ÿBut so much of our suffering depends on 
our ÿattitude ÿtoward ÿit.  ÿIt's very human, ÿÿand ÿnecessary ÿI 
believe, ÿÿto ÿexperience ÿfear, ÿanger, ÿÿself-pity, ÿÿand ÿeven 
bitterness.  ÿWe wouldn't be normal if these emotions didn't pass 
through us.  ÿI think so often of one of my African friends, ÿwho 
when I reached a high pitched frustration, would always shake his 
head and say, ÿ"Kristi, it will pass."  It will pass.  Fear, ÿand 
all ÿof the so-called "negative" ÿemotions that follow it can ÿbe 
healthy, ÿnormative, ÿand even creative forces in our lives.  ÿÿA 
well balanced emotional human is capable of them all.  ÿThey only 
become evil when we allow them to immobilize and blind us to ÿthe 
lessons ÿwe could be learning.  ÿPersonally, ÿI ÿhave ÿchosen ÿto 
concentrate on life, ÿmy life as it is now.  ÿI ÿcannot wish ÿthe 
pain away, or ignore it.  It has become a very real part of who I 
am.  ÿÿBut what I can do, ÿwhether I am suffering or not, ÿis ÿto 
concentrate ÿon ÿthe ÿhealth ÿthat exists ÿinside ÿof ÿme.  ÿÿThe 
acceptance of my human condition, ÿin the light of God's promises 
leads to a fresh hope, and a new peace of mind. 
     As ÿI study the Bible, ÿI'm always amazed at the ÿincredible 
sensitivity Jesus has toward us.  ÿWe humans, ÿunfortunately ÿare 
much ÿmore ego-centric in our view of suffering.  ÿWe ÿmean ÿwell 
usually, but never quite know what to say or do.  In sharing with 
a ÿperson in pain, ÿor dealing with it yourself, ÿit is vital ÿto 
remember ÿthat ÿthe ÿsuffering Christian lives ÿwith ÿa ÿconstant 
reminder ÿof ÿhis/her ÿfrailty.  ÿThere is no question ÿthat ÿGod 
heals, ÿÿlikewise ÿthere ÿis ÿno question that ÿwe ÿdon't ÿalways 
understand ÿhow ÿHe ÿdoes so.  ÿOurs is not a total ÿtheology ÿof 
glory.  We live, as Martin Luther puts it, ÿ"In the shadow of the 
Cross."  ÿÿWe ÿmust take this cross seriously, ÿwith all of ÿit's 
implications.  There is no victory without defeat, ÿglory without 
shame, ÿor health without suffering.  ÿFor example; I ÿcannot say 
that I have been healed of my disease. (Not yet anyway) I can say 
however, ÿthat I have been healed of many other things through my 
disease.  ÿÿI've ÿnever felt as loved as when I discovered I ÿhad 
Lupus.  I saw Christ alive through the caring of His church, ÿand 
I ÿÿexperienced ÿfirsthand ÿthe ÿsensitivity ÿand ÿfaith ÿof ÿHis 
followers.  Healing with suffering ... victory, in the shadows. 
     I'd ÿlike to tell you that I accept and trust at all ÿtimes, 
but ÿI ÿcan't.  ÿI'm human.  ÿWhen I'm in pain, ÿÿI'm ÿconstantly 
reminded ÿof my mortality.  ÿBut, ÿI'm also reminded that in ÿthe 
shadow (or light?) ÿof the cross, and God's promise of redemption 
through Christ, there is hope. 
     In ÿclosing ÿout my thoughts, ÿI ÿthink ÿit's ÿimportant ÿto 
mention ÿa little bit on the practical side of sensitivity to the 
suffering person.  I ÿbelieve the most important attitude you can 
take is honesty.  ÿA ÿperson is rarely alone in their pain.  ÿÿIf 
there ÿare people around who care, ÿthey will be suffering ÿalso.  
If ÿyou ÿfind ÿyourself in that boat, ÿdon't be afraid ÿto ÿadmit 
you're afraid.  Be honest about your feelings, hurts, ÿand fears.  
If ÿyou're ÿangry or confused, ÿtalk about it, ÿÿit ÿhelps.  ÿÿBe 
supportive ÿof the suffering person, ÿbut don't pity them.  ÿÿLet 
them know you care by being yourself, ÿthat is after all who they 
love and need.  Accept the ills of those you're dealing with as a 
part ÿof ÿthemselves.  ÿA ÿvery real part.  ÿMost of all, ÿÿdon't 
underestimate ÿthem.  ÿÿThey ÿwill fight the ÿpain, ÿÿfear, ÿÿand 
desperation hand in hand with you, and with our Lord. 
     I hope some of the things I've talked about will help you in 
your ÿtrials.  ÿÿI ÿhope it helps the next time you hold me, ÿÿor 
someone like me as they cry.  ÿI ÿhope most of all, ÿyou use your 
experience in suffering to grow in sensitivity, ÿand that our God 
will burn into your conscience your need of Him in health as well 
as ÿpain.  ÿÿThis ÿChristmas, ÿmay you be guided ÿby ÿthe ÿtender 
compassion of our bleeding Savior. 

Kristi Lee Hernmeir 

NOTE:  This article was written by Kristi for the Christmas, 1977 
issue ÿof the National Lutheran Youth Encounter Newspaper.  ÿÿThe 
article was written only a few days before Kristi's death.       
     Permission ÿto reprint the article was given by Pastor ÿGene 
and Ruby Hernmeir, Kristi's parents. 


