L-A-+---T1----+-T--2----T----3--T-+----4T---+---T5----+-T--6----J----7--T-+--r
I'VE ALWAYS BEEN A FOOL 
 by John Goetsch 

    It  has  been said that "everybody is somebody's fool." ÿI am 
not any different than anyone else.  I have always  been  a  fool 
for something.  
    
    On  July 31,  1967,  ÿI was sitting in the auditorium at Camp 
Chetek in Northern Wisconsin, listening to Dr. Eric Folsum preach 
a message from the Bible on Hell.  He read  scripture  throughout 
the  message  that  told  about Hell being a place of everlasting 
torment prepared for those who never personally ask Jesus  Christ 
to  save  them.  At  the  close of the service he asked those who 
wanted to be saved to come forward and  have  someone  show  them 
from the Bible how to be saved and go to Heaven.  
    I felt very uneasy, ÿand those scriptures on Hell were really 
convicting my heart.  But,  I couldn't walk down that aisle,  why 
everyone knew that John Goetsch was a Christian.  I had grown  up 
in a Christian home,  had gone to church and Sunday School all my 
life.  I went to Vacation  Bible  School  and  Youth  Camp  every 
summer.  I  had  been  baptized  and  was a member of the Calvary 
Baptist Church in Watertown, Wisconsin.  In fact, I was president 
of athe youth group in my church.  But as I walked  out  of  that 
auditorium that night, I could not get away from those scriptures 
on Hell.  
    That  night and the next day I was miserable.  ÿI kept asking 
myself,  "Am I going to Heaven or Hell?" Everyone else seemed  to 
think I was going to Heaven, but I wasn't sure.  
    The  following night,  ÿI couldn't listen to the preacher. ÿI 
didn't hear a word he said.  I kept asking myself over and  over; 
am I really going to Hell?  Again at the close of the service the 
invitation  was given,  ÿbut  I couldn't seem to move.  Something 
inside kept saying, "You're good enough,  You're better than most 
of these other people,  they are the ones that need to be saved," 
and I listened.  Later that night we watched a  gospel  film.  In 
the darkness of that room that night God began to speak in plain, 
simple terms to me.  He said,  "John, if you don't get saved, you 
are going to go straight to Hell,  no  matter  what  anyone  else 
thinks, you are not saved!" 
    Right  then  I realized I had been a fool for the devil.  ÿHe 
had tricked me into thinking that I had been good enough.  As the 
film ended, I ÿturned to a pastor who was sitting behind  me  and 
asked  him  if  he would help me.  Pastor Don Phaffe took me to a 
small room and there on my knees on August 1, 1967, at 10:30 p.m. 
I personally asked Jesus Christ to  save  me.  I  claimed  Romans 
10:13 which says: "Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord 
shall  be  saved," and Revelation 3:20,  "Behold,  I stand at the 
door, and knock;  if any man hear my voice, and open the door,  I 
will  come  in..."  The  Lord didn't trick me that night like the 
devil had.  At that moment Jesus Christ forgave my sin  and  gave 
me everlasting life.  No longer was I a fool for the devil.  
    I ÿwent back to high school that fall with real joy and peace 
in my heart knowing I was on my way to Heaven.  During those high 
school ÿyears I became very active in athletics playing football, 
basketball, ÿÿand track, ÿand was achieving some success ÿin ÿall 
sports. ÿBy the time I reached my junior and senior years, I ÿwas 
completely ÿwrapped up in sports, ÿwith little time for ÿanything 
else.  
    One  day  in Sunday School my Youth Pastor asked us to ÿwrite 
down ÿsome goals for our lives. ÿMy goal for High School ÿwas ÿto 
make all-conference in football. ÿFor my College goal, ÿI ÿÿwrote 
down that I wanted to play College football, and for life my goal 
was to get into some facet of professional sports.  
    Things went well and my senior year I captained the ÿfootball 
team ÿto a 5 win and 3 loss record, ÿquite respectable since ÿour 
high ÿschool ÿhad not won a single football game in ÿthree ÿyears 
prior to that. ÿOffers began to come from various colleges asking 
me ÿto play football. ÿOur basketball team was ranked 7th in ÿthe 
state ÿof ÿWisconsin, ÿand I was looking forward to breaking ÿthe 
school ÿrecord in the shot put in track that  spring. ÿSports was 
my god and I just didn't have time to serve Christ too.  
    On January 20,  1970, in the middle of my senior year, I ÿwas 
sitting in one of my classes and my chest began to  hurt. ÿI ÿhad 
never felt any pain like it before, ÿbut I put off thinking about 
it ÿbecause ÿwe had an important game that night. ÿThe pain ÿgrew 
steadily worse that afternoon and evening and that night I played 
the ÿworst ÿbasketball ÿgame I had ever played ÿin ÿmy ÿlife. ÿÿI 
disgraced ÿmyself ÿand  ÿthe  ÿteam. ÿÿPhysically  ÿhurting  ÿand 
emotionally upset, I went home to bed. However, as soon as I laid 
down ÿflat on my back, ÿthe pain became sharp. ÿIt seemed ÿas ÿif 
someone was taking a knife and cutting inside my chest.  
    At  ÿ3:00 ÿÿa.m. ÿthe next morning my parents took me to ÿthe 
hospital. They put me in a bed and I stayed in that bed,  ÿunable 
to move, ÿfor the next 3 months. I ÿhad a virus of the heart sac. 
My heart sac was filled with poisonous liquid and was the size of 
a basketball. ÿI missed the rest of my senior year,  ÿthe rest of 
basketball, and all of the track season.  
    All of the time I was in that hospital I never read my ÿBible 
or ÿprayed once. ÿI ÿwas bitter against God because He had ÿtaken 
everything I had dreamed of away.  
    For ÿthe ÿnext two years I ran from God and rebelled at ÿeven 
the thought of surrendering my life to Him. I gradually worked my 
body ÿback ÿinto ÿcondition until it was ÿstrong ÿand ÿcompletely 
healthy.  
    Three weeks prior to my first college football game, ÿI ÿfelt 
the ÿsame ÿpain ÿin my chest I had felt two ÿyears ÿbefore. ÿÿThe 
doctors, ÿafter two weeks of tests told me that I had an enlarged 
heart, ÿÿalmost ÿtwo times the size it was supposed to be. ÿÿThey 
informed me that I would never play sports again.  
    I  was crushed. ÿAll I had ever worked for was gone. ÿI ÿwent 
back ÿand told the coaches that I would never play again. ÿÿAs ÿI 
walked ÿacross ÿthe practice field that morning I looked ÿat ÿthe 
footballs ÿlying there and walked away knowing I would never pick 
one up again. At that moment my heart broke and I gave my life to 
Christ. ÿI told the Lord I had run from Him long enough and if He 
wanted my life, He could have it all.  
    I drove home and parked the car in the garage. My mother came 
running ÿout and said, ÿ"John! ÿJohn! ÿyou can play football!" ÿI 
said, ÿ"No, ÿthe doctors told me this morning that I would ÿnever 
play again." ÿShe replied, ÿ"I  know, ÿbut they just called. ÿThe 
tests ÿwere read wrong. ÿYou are perfectly healthy and can ÿstart 
playing tomorrow!" ÿI ÿbowed my head and thought, ÿ"If only I had 
been ÿwilling ÿto give God my life two years ago when ÿHe ÿwanted 
it..." 
    Though God allowed me to play 3 years of college football and 
4 years of college basketball, I never again let myself be a fool 
for sports and put anything before Christ.  
    I ÿwent to Maranatha Baptist Bible College and it was while I 
was there that God called me to be a preacher and into Evangelism 
to help others, ÿlike you, ÿfind Christ as your Saviour and serve 
Him.  
    I Corinthians 3:18 ÿsays, "Let no man deceive himself, if any 
man among you seemeth to abe wise in this world, let him become a 
fool (for Christ), that he may be wise." 
    Today, ÿÿfriend, ÿÿdon't be a fool for the devil any ÿlonger. 
Right ÿnow ÿin simple faith ask Jesus Christ to ÿcome ÿinto ÿyour 
heart and life, ÿrepent your sin, and ask Him to give you eternal 
life.  
    If ÿyou ÿhave ÿbeen saved, ÿdon't be a fool to ÿthe ÿtemporal 
things of this life. ÿDedicate your life to your Saviour and be a 
fool for Him. 

From the S.O.N. BBS, WI 

d didn't trick me that night like the 
devil had.  At that moment Jesus Christ forgave my sin 