Lessons in Faith - 3
----------------

     Give  it  your all! Why are you holding back?  Why  are  you 
reserving part of your energy? Is your faith doubtful? God  wants 
you to give Him your ALL! He wants your BEST. God is depending on 
you! You have a partnership that can work miracles, but you  must 
give it your all!

     When God told Moses to raise his staff over the Red Sea, the 
scene could have gone like this...

          Moses raises his Staff half way. "Moses" God calls, 
     "You're not giving Me your all." "Lord," Moses replied, "I'm 
     saving my energy in case nothing happens and I have to 
     swim!"

     ...but it didn't! Moses gave his all! At times he was tired, 
and  at times discouraged, but he always gave his ALL.  And  Noah 
didn't hold back, the scene could have gone like this...

          Noah hammers the last nail into the twenty-four foot 
     yacht. "Noah," calls God, "That is not the ark I told you to 
     build." "Lord," replies Noah, "I was saving some lumber to 
     build a new split-level, with two garages for my family!"

     ...but it didn't! Noah kept nothing back and built the  ark! 
The  scene with Joshua and the walls of Jericho could  have  gone 
like this...

          Half of Joshua's army is circling Jericho. "Joshua," 
     calls God, "Where is the rest of your army?" "Lord," Joshua 
     replies, "Some are over here building catapults, battering 
     rams, ladders and other assorted weapons. Others are 
     guarding the camp, and scouting ways into Jericho."

     ...but it didn't! Joshua gave his all! He didn't hold  back! 
He didn't reserve energy!

     What do Moses, Noah and Joshua have in common? Faith!  Faith 
the God will do as He promises. Faith that God knows best!  Faith 
that the battle is won before it is started!

     What  about Ananias and Sapphira? They sold thier  land  and 
gave only part of the money to the apostles. They fell down dead! 
They held back! You might not fall down dead, but you will not be 
living to your fullest!

     Are you reserving energy, afraid you might have to swim? Are 
you holding back, to build your own resources? Are you not giving 
your  best, in case the idea doesn't work? Don't! Put your  faith 
to the test, like Moses, Noah and Joshua! Give it your all!

                                                  LRH 11/10/85


