
                             What is God?

.    For a written class assignment, a third grade teacher asked her
students to explain "God".  This is one perspicacious response from
Danny Dutton, who attends the First Christian Church of Chula Vista. 
Danny is eight years old.

.    "One of God's main jobs is making people.  He makes these to put
in place of the ones that die so there will be enough people to take
care of things here on earth.  He doesn't make grownups.  Just babies. 
I think because they are smaller and easier to make.  That way He
doesn't have to take up His valuable time teaching them to talk and
walk.  He can just leave that up to the mothers and fathers.  I think
it works out pretty good.
.    God's second most important job is listening to prayers.  An
awful lot of this goes on, as some people, like preachers and things,
pray other times besides bedtime.  God doesn't have time to listen to
the radio or T.V. on account of this.  As He hears everything, not
only prayers, there must be a terrible lot of noise going into His
ears unless He has thought of a way to turn it off.
.    God sees everything and hears everything and is everywhere. 
Which keeps Him pretty busy.  So you shouldn't go wasting His time by
going over your parents head and ask for something they said you
couldn't have.
.    Atheists are people who don't believe in God.  I don't think
there are any in Chula Vista.  At least there aren't any who come to
our church.
.    Jesus is God's Son.  He used to do all the hard work like walking
on water and doing miracles and trying to teach people about God who
didn't want to learn.  They finally got tired of Him preaching to them
and they crucified Him.  But He was good and kind like His Father and
He told His Father that they didn't know what they were doing and to
forgive them and God said ok.  His Dad (God) appreciated everything He
had done and all His hard work on earth, so He told Him He didn't have
to go out on the road anymore.  He could stay in heaven.  So He did. 
And now He helps His Dad out by listening to prayers and seeing which
things are important for God to take care of and which ones He can
take care of Himself without having to bother God with.  Like a
secretary, only more important, of course.  You can pray anytime you
want and they are sure to hear you because they've got it worked out
so one of them is on duty all the time.
.    You should always go to Sunday School because it makes God happy,
and if anybody you want to make happy, it's God.  Don't skip Sunday
School to do something you think will be more fun like going to the
beach.  That is wrong.  And beside the sun doesn't come out at the
beach until noon anyway.
.    If you don't believe in God, besides being an Atheist, you will
be very lonely, because your parents can't go everywhere with you like
to camp, but God can.  It's good to know He's around when you're
scared of the dark or when you can't swim very good and you get thrown
in real deep water by big kids.  But you shouldn't think always of
what God can do for you.  I figure God put me here and He can take me
back anytime He pleases.  And that's why I believe in God." 


.    Taken from a paper published by the First Christian Church. 305
W. California Ave. Vista, CA 92083-3595

 Contributed by The Manna System
 (714)-532-6310
 300/1200 Baud  

Computers for Christ - Chicago
