
                       HIS NICKNAME IS THUNDER

.    His Nickname is Thunder, but even in Cleveland, that is a
misnomer.  The only thing outwardly intimidating about Andre Thornton
is his size.  He looks like a guy who could snap a bat in half with
his bare hands.
.    But don't be misled by appearances.  His voice is tissue paper
soft, his manner extra polite.  Andre Thornton is a deeply religious
man who has found in baseball a vehicle to convey a very special
message, even while he's terrorizing American league pitchers.  That
is why the story of yet another remarkable comeback by the 32 year old
first baseman-designated hitter is unique.
.    Through his 16 year professional baseball career, Andre Thornton
has survived frustration, rejection and the ultimate tragedy of losing
his wife and a child in a 1977 car accident.  For two recent seasons,
the 6-foot-2, 205 pound Thornton was in virtual hibernation, chiefly
because of injury.  But now he is back.  In fact, he's on a rampage. 
- Larry Whiteside, Sportswriter for the Boston Globe.

                         TRAGEDY ... TRIUMPH

.    Obviously, power hitter Andre Thornton has endured much more than
baseball injuries or fickle batting slumps.  His most painful
experience began on an icy night in October 1977 when the van he was
driving skidded off the Pennsylvania turnpike.  Thornton's wife and 3
year old daughter were killed, leaving only Andre and his 4 year old
son as survivors.
.    "There is no doubt that the accident was like tearing the insides
right out of me," says Thornton.  "My first wife and I both loved the
Lord.  She was a wonderful woman.  We spent seven years together.  I
felt God's presence right there on that highway in Pennsylvania I felt
God's peace.  Now I'm thankful that I knew Him years before, that I
didn't have to come to that point in my life and see my wife and child
lying on a highway and have no hope at all ... [Hope] is the essence
of life."
.    That tragedy was the true test of Andre's faith.  It proved that
his outer composure was more than just a mask - it was the result of a
deep inner stability, a firm spiritual foundation.  That's why he
received the 1978 Danny Thompson award for "exemplary Christian spirit
in baseball," and the 9th annual Roberto Clemente Award for his
"sportsmanship, character, community involvement and contributions to
team and baseball."

                           HOW IT ALL BEGAN

.    But Thornton remembers how it all began in 1968, just months
after entering professional baseball.  He had just joined the National
Guard and was alone in his room.  "It was one of the loneliest times
of my life," he says.  "Everything seemed to be so confusing, and
questions about life were boiling inside of me.  It wasn't money I was
looking for.  It wasn't clothes or houses or a profession that had
prestige.  I wanted to know what life was all about, why I was here,
where I was going.  The questions were demanding an answer.  Here I
was, experiencing all the things that most people want, but the world
could not give the true answers that I needed so urgently."
.    It was then that Thornton started to read the small tract that
his mother had given him earlier.  For the first time Thornton
understood Christ's words: "I came that they might have life, and
might have it abundantly." (John 10:10)  "I knew that was what I was
looking for," Thornton says, "life, abundant life.  Here was the
answer to my question.  First God had a purpose for my life.  He
created me in order that I might enjoy Him and serve Him.  Second,
when I died, I could know that I would have eternal life with God."
.    Thornton realized that he needed a new spiritual life.  "The
Bible told me that 'all have sinned and fall short of the glory of
God' (Romans 3:23), and that 'the wages of sin is death' (Romans 6:23)
which means spiritual separation from God."  He understood that his
sin was the reason why he wasn't experiencing abundant life.  "Then I
read that there was a solution to this problem," Thornton recalls. 
"The key ... was my believing in God's Son, Jesus Christ.  The Bible
says, 'God has given us eternal life, and this life is in His Son.  He
who has the Son has the life; he who does not have the Son of God does
not have the life.  These things [were] written to you who believe in
the name of the Son of God, in order that you may KNOW that you have
eternal life' (I John 5:11-13).  Believing that Jesus Christ had died
on the cross to pay the penalty for man's sin, and knowing that He had
risen from the dead, Thornton got down on his knees and asked Christ
to be his personal Savior.

                         AN INFINITE RESOURCE

.    "It's been more than ten years since I invited Jesus Christ to
come into my life, to forgive me of my sins, and to change my life. 
And I have found Him to be the source of joy, peace, love - of all
things I ever wanted in life.  There have been trials and tragedies,
but God has brought me through all of them."
.    Sometimes we experience problems and trials that we can't
understand.  I've learned that there is one thing I can trust and that
is what God says in His Word.  That comforts me and reassures me, even
when all of my questions aren't answered."
.    That confident assurance enables Andre Thornton to remain calm
through all the circumstances of life.  He has found a stability in
God, and inner foundation which holds him up when life threatens to
overwhelm him.  He keeps swinging at life's tough pitches. 

Computers for Christ - Chicago
