
                      The Utterly Unique Person

.    He was born in poverty, was reared in obscurity, and lived in
simplicity.  He had no wealth or influence, and no college education. 
Yet the profoundest wisdom of men has never equaled His.  "Never man
spake like this man."

.    He never wrote a book, yet the largest library could not hold the
books that have been written about Him.  He never wrote a song, yet He
has furnished the theme of more songs than all others combined.  He
never founded a college, yet all the schools together cannot boast of
as many students as He has.

.    He never marshaled an army, drafted a soldier, or fired a gun. 
Yet no leader ever had more volunteers, who under His orders made
rebels stack arms or surrender without a shot being fired.

.    He lives on although all other great men have come and gone. 
Herod could not kill Him, Satan could not seduce Him, death could not
destroy Him, the grave could not hold Him.

.    He laid aside His purple robe for a peasant's gown.  He was rich,
yet for our sakes He became poor.  As to how poor?  Ask Mary.  Ask the
wise men.  He slept in another's manger, cruised the lake in another's
boat, rode on a borrowed beast, was buried in another's tomb.

.    He conquered death, rose the third day as He said He would,
ascended into heaven and will one day return with power and great
glory.

.    He will judge the world in righteousness.  Every knee shall bow
to Him and every tongue shall confess Him as Lord - His friends
gladly, but His enemies seeking for a place to hide from His face.

.    He came from the bosom of the Father to the bosom of a woman.  He
put on humanity that we might put on divinity.  He became the Son of
Man that we might become sons of God.

.    Thus we celebrate Christmas as the birthday of this utterly
unique person.  But these facts are of no value to you unless you
acknowledge your sin and your need for such a Savior.  Only by
believing in Him will you become a unique person: a child of God!

Computers for Christ - Chicago
