MOTIVATE

.     Live by choice, not by chance.  It's ironic; I first saw that at
Special Olympics.  Compared to their struggle, our choice should be
easy, but we take it for granted.  You must choose life everyday.
Living life and not use existing requires active participation.  You
can't sit around and wait for life to take you by the hand  - because
it won't.  It's not what like can give you, but what you should put
into life.  You have to take the initiative.
.     I guess I should define what I mean by life and living.  God
gives us life (everlasting life through Jesus Christ).  And we should
live that life according to His perfect will -then and only then will
we know what living verses existing truly means.
.     Yet God doesn't force man to do anything.  We must reach out to
Him, ask of Him, cry out to Him, pray to Him....  We have to step out
in faith toward Him.  Jesus chose to die for man; God chose us as His
children - He took the initiative and now never wavers or varies from
that choice.  It's like the saying, "I'll meet you halfway."  Jesus
died for you, and He is calling your name, but it's up to you to step
across the threshold.  It's man's turn to choose and not vary from it.
In the choice for life, there is no grey, only black and white.
.     So what is our motivation for life; where do we find the drive to
stick with our choice of life?  You must take the first step towards
it.  Motivation won't come looking for you.  Look around you; don't be
caught up in the seen; look at what is unseen - Jesus, everlasting
life, love.....  It's pretty obvious that good is an easier motivator
than bad.  So search for good in everything and everyone.  When you
find it, hold it close to your heart; make it a precious treasure.
Don't brush it aside, but experience it and live each moment as it
comes.  Motivation is a day to day thing.  Each day, as each situation
arises, stand by your choice.
.     Don't be motivated by your emotions!  If you let your emotions
control your motivation, you will run into trouble.  Times will arise
when you don't feel like doing so and so, and you won't.  You can't
sit around procrastinating and expect God to say, "You're motivated!"
and presto!  There you go!  You must persevere.
.     This is where discipline comes in.  Disciplines are like good
habits, only harder to form.  Discipline is being faithful to the goal
you've set or to the choice you've made, regardless.  So when all else
fails, you don't feel like doing it - lean on the strength of your
discipline.  You'll find it is God.  Stick to your guns; God will
honor your perseverance.  That's His promise, not mine!

     Scripture: 2 Cor 4:18, 2 Tim 1:7, Rom 5:1-5, James 1:3-4

This is a lecture that my cousin will be presenting in Atlanta.  I
thought that y'all would get something out of it.  I did.  Her name is
Marsha and is currently going after a medical degree.  She's the only
other person in my family that I am sure of being saved.  It's obvious
to me (maybe not to you guys) that God is able to use her.  If there's
any questions about this outline, I'll try to answer them for you.  If
I can't, I'll get in touch with Marsha.

