
ARE YOU THE RIGHT PERSON FOR GOD'S WORK?

A little known firm which specializes in analyzing candidates for management
positions in various organizations recently uncovered some old files
which throw some interesting light on what some might consider essential
skills and abilities for Christian service. I quote from the report:

To: Jesus son of Joseph regarding:
12 candidates for management positions.

Dear sir,

Thank you for submitting the resumes of the twelve men you have picked for
positions in your new organization. All of them have now taken our battery of
tests; and we have not only run the results through our computer, but also
arranged personal interviews for each of them with our psychologist and
vocational aptitude consultant. It is the staff opinion that most of your
nominees are lacking in backround, education and vocational aptitude for the
type of enterprise you are undertaking. They do not have the team concept. We
would recommend that you continue your search for persons of experience in 
managerial abiluty and proven capability.
*  Simon Peter is emotionally unstable and given to fits of temper.
*  Andrew has absolutely no qualities of leadership.
*  The two brothers, James and John, place personal interest above company
   loyalty. 
*  Thomas demonstrates a questioning attitude that would tend to undermine 
   morale.
*  We feel that it is our duty to tell you that Matthew has been blacklisted 
   by the greater Jerusalem Better Business Bureau.
*  James, the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddeaus definitely have radical leanings,
   and they both register a high score on the manic depressive scale.
One of the candidates, however, shows great potential. He is a man of ability 
and resourcefulness, meets people well, has a keen business mind and has 
contacts in high places. He is highly motivated, ambitious and responsible. 
We recommend Judas Iscariot as your controller and right-hand man.

Sincerely yours,
Management Consultants Inc.

(and you thought that things had changed a lot over the last 2000 years.)

'If any one serves me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall my
servant also be; if any one serves me, the Father will honor him.' John 12:26

