TIPS FOR BEYOND ZORK 
 
(c) 1992 Erik Futtrup, Denmark (email: futtrup@daimi.aau.dk) 
     and Twan Lintermans, Holland 
 
 
Wait near the old sailer and take driftwood. 
'Wield' a weapon before using it. 
 
Exit gondola when you're near a platform. 
 
To get the Minx, wipe the tracks and wait for hunters to leave. 
This will give you 15% compassion. 
 
The Minx can discover truffles at every location where an oak is 
present. Just wait for him to dig it up. Eating a truffle costs 1% 
compassion but an "ever¥fresh" truffle can come in handy later! 
The answer to the riddle about the 'tines' is 'lightning'. 
 
The answer to the riddle on the boulder is 'youth'. 
 
To get rid of the dust bunnies, get the rug and a staff or stick 
and type "rub rug with staff" (for static electricity!), then type 
"touch bunny" and watch what happens! The ring can be used later 
in the game! 
 
Use Sayonara to get rid of the Dorn near the chest or better yet, 
cut the onion with the axe and watch him cry his 69 eyes out. 
 
To get the onion you'll need the wine bottle from the cellar, up 
with the stacks, which only works with 15% dexterity. 
 
Still in the cellar? Use the scroll of recall outside the pub and say 
the word that hangs in the sky once you're in the cellar. You can 
also kick the door in, using one of the stars on the amulet (see 
later for explanation) 
 
Haven't found a light? Use the lantern on the hook outside the 
pub, which can be renewed with the scroll of renewal. 
 
Having trouble reading scrolls, get your intelligence up by eating 
the cake from the market (20% gain) or drinking the potion of 
enlightenment (20%). 
 
Kiss horn of unicorn for 15% luck, buy and rub rabbit's foot for 
10% luck. 
 
More luck can be obtained by touching the coating in the goblet, 
given to you by the Implementors! (another 15%). 
 
How do you get the goblet? Open the chest once and take the 
outline and the palimpsest when you return. 
Use palimpsest and create an entrance by cutting the outline with 
the phase blade (formerly the outline, Magick can do wonders, you 
know). 
 
The pterodactyl can be very helpful, if only you could cure it! Take 
weed at Edge of Storms (spenceweed), use anesthesia on 
pterodactyl, take arrow and put weed on wound. Don't forget to 
take his whistle to summon him if you need. 
 
All you need is a saddle, and you can fly on the pterodactyl: the 
saddle is in the stable and can be taken with the levitation or by 
using the amulet. 
 
How do I use the amulet? This is only possible, if you have the 
wine bottle! Look at amulet through bottle, so the red twines don't 
blurr the picture anymore! Then you can say the word, written on 
the amulet and get 99% strength for a few moves, using one of the 
three stars on the amulet. 
 
Put the saddle on the pterodactyl and fly north (wait if wind is 
blowing against you! Cloudy directions cannot be entered) to get to 
the ruins. 
 
Use the vial from under the pew in the Chapel (Jungle) to get rid 
of the undead warrior. 
 
To get more dexterity, squeeze moss in cellar or idol, giving you 
8% each. 
 
To get rid of the monkey grinder, give him the closed chest, after 
you've opened it once to get to the implementors! He can't read.. 
 
To get the jewel, hit the baby hungus, wait for its mother to 
follow you to the maw of the idol. Get up and take the jewel when 
the hungus is on the jaw! 
 
How do I get out of the idol and get the jewel from the hungus? 
Use the eversion twice! Point it at idol and hungus 
 
To get more compassion (15%), use levitation on the baby hungus 
(who deserves it after being hit by you!). 
 
Sell the jewel (1000 zorkmids) and buy the hourglass, which can be 
used at the ruins, under the arch (shaped like an hourglass!). 
 
Once under the arch, turn the hourglass and you can travel 
through time! Take the minx and a truffle, who has been in the 
pool of youth, so it will stay fresh forever! Throw the truffle in 
the trench (where the helmet rolls into) and travel through time to 
the place called "desolation" and wait for the minx to dig up the 
truffle. Then you can take the helmet! [Don't go back to the battle 
trench after that, because history will start all over again and 
you'll lose the helmet you're carrying. 
 
Wearing the helmet gives you 30% intelligence and 5% armor class 
extra. 
 
Use the hurdy¥gurdy from the monkey grinder near the corbies in 
the gray field of Frotzen! Set dial to eye and close lid. Then turn 
the crank right until a farmhouse will fall down. Find the farm, 
enter it and wait to get to a giant boot! 
 
Examine the flowers near the boot and choose the right key .... the 
one having the same colour as the  third  scarecrow after turning 
the hurdy¥gurdy. Carrying this key gives you access through the 
giant wall of corbies and you'll find a (compass) rose. 
 
The rose can be used to see in which direction the wind blows 
AND can actually change the direction of the wind! "Set rose to 
se" enables you to fly nw with the wind in your back (cloudy 
directions are still unaccessable). 
 
You can use the palimpsest to go to the ruins as well, by saying 
the word on it when you are on the ground, walk to the location 
you want to go to once you're above the ground and say the word 
on the palimpsest again. 
 
Search the debris in the lamphouse of the lighthouse and you'll 
find a valuable sextant you can sell! 
 
To get past the Christmas Tree monsters you have to change the 
butterfly in a caterpillar using the hurdy¥gurdy. The butterfly will 
align on the rim of the goblet somewhere in the fields of Frotzen 
(it's attracted by the nectar!). Put the butterfly in the hurdy¥gurdy 
(open the lid first) and close the lid. Set the dial to clock and turn 
the crank left ("reverse" time, a butterfly comes out of a 
caterpillar normally, now it's the other way around). 
 
Carrying the caterpillar, the trees will avoid you and you can get 
through. Take the diary and the hemisphere, along with the leaflet 
from the mailbox. 
 
The leaflet will turn into a burin, needed to inscribe the glyph! 
 
The real Infocom freaks can read the diary and know what "girgol" 
means (from Spellbreaker: stop time). The other ones have to rely 
on my tip here: point the dispel rod at the dome to undo the spell 
and release the lava. 
 
Run away from the lava, or you'll get killed. 
 
Wear the ring and enter the lava while it's still hot. Inscribe the 
glyph with the burin (the glyph is written in the diary as well, so 
read it if you haven't done that earlier; without an example there'll 
be no glyph¥writing!). 
 
Ask cardinal Toolbox for the leather folder and open it: the two 
hemispheres can be put together, type "put peg in hole". The 
obtained sphere comes in real handy, getting to the end scene of 
this magnificent game! 
 
Make sure all your attributes are as high as possible before getting 
into the final battle. 
 
Fly to the castle (you can see it from the "Rock Wall" in the 
jungle, using the pterodactyl and the rose. Hide behind the bush 
and wait for the platypus to leave! Then take a root and eat it for 
3% strength and take the jar from the statue. Blow the whistle and 
fly back to the mountainside on the pterodactyl. 
 
You're ready to try the end scene now: high attributes, all the 
charms to ward off ill luck (horseshoe, four leave clover, rabbit's 
foot) are also needed, along with the jar to make mirrors. 
 
Enter the "maze" and make mirrors to reflect the light, making you 
able to penetrate the maze further. The lucksucker (cat or anything 
else) can be hit with the charm that colours green! When the 
daylight comes from the sw, turn the mirror s to reflect it to the 
se. 
 
Keep making mirrors and try to find the ur¥grue. Be careful, 
mirrors do not last forever, so you'll probably have to go all the 
way back now and then. Finally point a mirror at the ur¥grue and 
you'll have defeated him (when you've enough compassion....). 
 
Take the coconut from the pile of treasure and walk around the 
maze for a few moves ......... the game will end soon enough then 
and I won't tell you what happens ...... find out for yourself!!!! 
 
May the Spell of Good Luck be with you..... 
 
Kwaliterma Software Unlimited, Holland!! 
 
 
	List of objects 
 
Shillelagh, worth 10 (everything costs twice as much as it's worth 
when you want to buy it; all the prices in this list are based upon 
what you get when you sell the item). 
 
Potion of Might, 12, gives 16% strength. 
 
scroll of Mischief, 1, big fun at parties (useless, but fun). 
....   of Eversion, 10, makes things turn inside out. 
 
cloak, 15, 5% armor class, can be worn over another garment. 
leather tunic, 10, 10% armor class. 
scale mail, 30,  
plate mail, 100, 60% armor class. 
scroll of Fireworks, 1, (useless, gives authors of the game) 
tusk, 40, not needed anywhere. 
