                               Z O R K   I 
                                 (Infocom)

So,  you're all set for The Great Underground Empire, eh?  Okay, but before
we  begin,  a few words about this walkthrough. First, this is not the only
way  to  solve  the game. It's just one of the faster ones. Second, because
there  is no "wasted motion" in this game, you will not be visiting all the
locations.  So, you might want to play around with the game on your own for
a  while, mapping out as much as you can, without much regard for gathering
treasures.  Actually,  mapping is a good idea, since, if you make a misstep
somewhere,  you  might  find  yourself in trouble! Be especially careful to
follow  the directions when in the mazes; a wrong move there, and you could
be lost for quite some time!

Finally,  you  may  not  go  through  this  in exactly the way it's written
because  of  the  thief.  He is a variable item in the game; you never know
where  he  will  show up. Try to move out of the room he's in as soon as he
shows  up.  But  keep in mind that even if he does steal anything from you,
you  will  get  it  all  back  from  him  in the end. Okay? Let's start the
adventure!

You  begin West of the house, and your first chore is to get inside. So, go
South  and  East.  Open  the  window  and  enter  the  house (you're in the
kitchen),  then  go  West into the living room. Get the lamp, then move the
rug,  revealing the trap door. Open the trap door, turn on the lamp, and go
down.  At  this  point,  some  mysterious person will shut the door on you;
don't  worry  about that for now. Okay, so here you are in the cellar. It's
time to pick up your first treasure, so go South, then East to the Gallery.
Get the painting, then continue North to the Studio.

Go  up  the  chimney (you can only fit with the lamp and the painting), and
you  will  be  in the kitchen again. Now, go upstairs to the attic, and get
the  knife  and  rope. Come back down and go into the living room. Open the
case  and  put the painting inside. Then, drop the knife and get the sword.
Open the trap door again, and return to the cellar. Again, the door is shut
by  someone  (you  never  will  find  out  who's doing this, but it doesn't
matter).  Now  you're  back in the cellar, and since we're coming to one of
the more dangerous parts of the game, you might want to do a save here.

Gripping your trusty sword, head North into the Troll room. There's a nasty
troll  here with a bloody axe, and the only way past is to kill him. So, do
just  that: "Kill Troll With Sword." It will most likely take more than one
attempt,  so  keep  at  it,  and eventually he will disappear in a cloud of
black  smoke.  Now,  drop  the  sword, because you really don't need it any
more,  and  it  will  hinder  you in carrying other, more important items.
Having  despatched  the  troll,  you  move along East, East (into the Round
room),  then  SE  and  East.  You are now in the Dome room. It's a long way
down, and too far to jump, so here's where the rope comes in handy. Tie the
rope  to  the  railing,  then climb down the rope. You will be in the Torch
room.

Leave  the  torch for now; you'll be coming back this way again later. From
the  Torch  room, go South, then East and get the coffin. Return West, then
continue  South  to the Altar. There's no way you're going to get down that
hole  with  the coffin, and even the program will tell you that you haven't
got a prayer. That's a hint, folks: Just "Pray," and you will find yourself
in  the forest again. Since it's daylight out, save energy and turn off the
lamp.  Now,  head  along  South,  then North (I know, but it works!) to the
clearing,  then  East  to  the  Canyon  View. Climb all the way down to the
bottom, then go North to Rainbow's End.

Drop  the  coffin  and open it. Inside is a jewelled sceptre. Get that, and
wave  it. The rainbow will become solid (you'll need to cross over from the
other side later). Now, "Look." You should see a pot of gold. Get that, and
the  coffin.  After  that,  go SW, then all the way back up to Canyon View.
From  there,  it's NW to the clearing, and then West to the window. Once in
the  kitchen,  open  the  bag  and  get  the garlic (nothing else, just the
garlic).  Go  on  into the living room, and put your treasures in the case.
Now,  sit  down  and  take  a breather, because you're about to do a lot of
travelling!

Once  again,  open  the  trap  door,  turn  on the lamp, and go down. Watch
carefully,  and  you  will  notice  that this time, the door doesn't close!
Whoever  was doing it before must have gotten bored. Anyway, you're on your
way to the dam, so move along North, East, North, NE, and East. You are now
on  top of the dam. From there, go North to the Lobby. Pick up the matches,
then  go  either  North or East (doesn't matter) into the Maintenance room.
Get  the  wrench  and  the  screwdriver,  then push the yellow button. Now,
return  to the dam, and you will see that the green bubble is lit. Turn the
bolt  with  the  wrench, then drop the wrench. You have opened the dam, and
you  will be coming back this way again to reap the fruits of your labours.
However, right now, you're on your way to Hades, so let's get going!

Go  South,  then  down  into the Loud room. Leave the platinum bar for now;
you'll  get  it  later.  Head  West  into  the Round room, then SE and East
(hmmmm,  haven't  you  been here before?). Again, climb down the rope. This
time,  get  the torch. At this point, you can turn off your lamp; the torch
will  provide  light  so long as you have it. Now, continue straight South,
getting  the  bell,  then  the book and candles from the altar. Go down the
hole  to  the  cave, then down again to the entrance to Hades. Your candles
will have blown out by this time, but don't worry about it.

Okay,  here's  where  you have to be careful. First, ring the bell. It will
become  red  hot and you will drop it. You will also drop the candles. Stay
calm,  and  do  the  following,  all in one command: Get the candles, light
match, light candles with match (necessary, because of the torch, and DON'T
use  the  torch,  or  you'll  vapourise the candles!). Okay, strange things
happened when you lit the candles, now read the book. Whew! The demons have
been  exorcised!  Drop  the  book, then go South and get the crystal skull.
Now, back North, then up to the cave, then North to the Mirror room. By the
way,  better  put  out  the candles. Rub the mirror, and you will now be in
another  Mirror  room  (this  one  is North of the dam, as the other one is
South).

Now,  go  North,  then  West,  then  North, then West into the Squeaky room
(well, I told you you'd be doing a lot of travelling this time!). Make sure
you  have  the garlic with you, then go North into the Bat room. So long as
you  have  the  garlic, he won't bother you. There is a jade figurine here,
but leave it for now. You'll pick it up on your way out.

Go East to the Shaft room. Put the torch into the basket, then turn on your
lamp and head North to the Smelly room, then down to the Gas Room (best not
to  carry any open flames here!). Now, you are about to enter a small maze,
so   follow   these   directions  CAREFULLY!  East,  Northeast,  Southeast,
Southwest, down, and you should be at the top of the ladder (if you aren't,
may  God  have  mercy  on  your  soul!).  From there, go down to the Ladder
Bottom,  and then South to the Dead End for the coal. Get that, then return
to  the  ladder  top. From there, go up, North, East, South, North, and you
will be back in the Gas room. Go up, then South to the Shaft room again.

Put the coal in the basket, and lower the basket. Now, guess what? You have
to  go  back  through  the coal mine again! So, make your way to the Ladder
Bottom, but this time, go West to the Timber room. Ignore the broken timber
(not  useful  for anything), and drop all but the screwdriver. Now, you can
squeeze through the crack to the West. And here you are in the Drafty Room,
which  is  also  at the bottom of the shaft. There's the basket, so get the
coal and the torch, and move South into the Machine room. Open the lid, put
the  coal  in  the  machine,  close  the  lid, and turn the switch with the
screwdriver. Drop the screwdriver, open the lid, and get the diamond (well,
no one ever said Zork was an EASY game!).

Now,  go  back  North,  and  put  the  torch and the diamond in the basket.
Squeeze  back  East  into the Timber room. Get the skull, lamp, and garlic.
You won't be needing the matches and the candles any more, so you can leave
them. (They were insurance in case the thief came along and stole the torch
before  you  could  get  the  diamond).  Now, head East again to the Ladder
Bottom,  and  from  there  up  and  through the coal mine (you know the way
now!), to the Gas room. Pick up the bracelet, then continue on up and South
to  the Shaft room. Get the torch and the diamond from the basket, turn off
the lamp, then go West into the Bat room.

Get  the jade, then go South, East, South to the Slide room.  Now, here's a
fast  way back to the cellar: Just go down the slide! Wheeeee! Then it's up
to  the  living  room  (remember,  the  trap door is open now), and all the
treasures  go into the case. Huff! Puff! Bet you didn't know you'd be doing
THIS  much running around! But, don't get too relaxed, there's still plenty
more to come!!).

Turn  on  the  lamp,  and return to the cellar. From there, it's North (ah,
deja  vu!),  then  East,  North, NE to Reservoir South. Now that the sluice
gates  are  open, you can head North, picking up the trunk of jewels, North
again  to  Reservoir  North, getting the air pump, and North one more time,
getting the crystal trident. After that, go all the way back South again to
Reservoir  South,  then East to the dam, and then East once more to the Dam
Base.  Here  you  find  a  little pile of folded plastic; guess what it is?
Right, it's an inflatable boat! So, inflate it with the pump, then drop the
pump, then get inside the boat, say "Launch," and you're floating off along
the Frigid River.

Now, just keep waiting until you see the buoy. Get that, then "East" to the
beach.  Get  out  of the boat, then get the shovel and move on to the Sandy
Cave  to  the  NE. You might want to save the game at this point, since you
have  to dig here until the scarab turns up, and I'm sure you don't want to
get  buried  alive  (it's been known to happen!). Okay, drop the shovel and
get  the  scarab,  then go back SW. Drop the buoy and open it; inside is an
emerald.  Get  that, then continue South to the Aragain Falls. Here you can
cross  the  rainbow  (so  do  that!),  which  brings  you to the End of The
Rainbow.

Turn  off  the lamp, then go SW to the Canyon Bottom. From there, make your
way  back  to  the living room, and put all the treasures in the case. Your
collection is quite impressive by now, but you aren't finished yet. Go East
twice,  then  North  twice.  Climb  up the tree and get the egg. Climb down
again, and go South, East, and back to the living room. However, this time,
you don't put the treasure in the case. Turn on the lamp, and go down (once
again!) into the cellar, and North to the Troll room. Now, you are about to
enter a maze, so follow the directions very carefully!

West (this brings you into the maze), South, East, up, and you find several
items  here.  Take  only the coins and the key, and be careful not to touch
the  skeleton!  From  here,  go SW, East, South, SE, and you will be in the
Cyclops  room.  The  Cyclops  is  not  friendly,  but you can deal with him
effortlessly:  Just  type  in "Ulysses" (or "Odysseus," if you prefer). Old
One-Eye  will  tear  out  of there right through the wall! In fact, he will
create  a  passage  eastward  from  that  room  right into the living room!
However, you don't want to go that way yet!

Instead,  go  upstairs,  and  you will be in the Treasure Room, the thief's
secret  lair.  Now,  give him the egg, and go back downstairs, then East to
the  living  room.  Deposit  the coins in the case, then get the knife (the
thief  needs  a  little  time  to  open the egg). Okay, go back West to the
Cyclops  room.  Again, at this point, saving is recommended; the thief will
not  be easy to kill! So, head upstairs and use the nasty knife to kill the
thief.  Once  he's  dead,  all  treasures in the room will be visible. This
includes  the  egg,  a silver chalice, and anything he may have stolen from
you before.

Get  everything,  then  follow these directions: Down, NW, South, West, up,
down,  NE,  and  you will be in the Grating Room. Unlock and open the grate
(watch  out  for  falling  leaves!), then go up. You will be in a clearing.
From  there,  go  South and climb the tree again. Wind up the canary that's
inside  the  egg.  A songbird will come by and drop a bauble for you. Climb
down  again and get the bauble, then return to the living room. Put all the
treasures  in  the case, making sure you REMOVE THE CANARY from the egg and
put  it  in the case separately! You're almost finished! Just one more trip
to make!

Now, for the last time, enter the cellar and go North. From the Troll Room,
go  East  until  you  come again to the Loud Room. Type in: "Echo," and you
will now be able to get the bar. So, grab it and return to the living room.
Once you place it in the case, you will get a message. Follow the advice of
that  message,  and  you will get a map. Take that, and return to the place
where  this  all started, the mailbox West of the house. You should have no
trouble  getting  to  the  barrow from there. Of course, once you enter the
barrow....  You  didn't  really think it would end there, did you? Not when
there's  still  Zork II and Zork III waiting for you up ahead! Ah, but it's
too  late; you can't turn back now! You'll just have to grit your teeth and
follow  through to the end (with a little help, of course). See you in Zork
II!

   * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
