                                 ZORK III
                                 (Infocom)

Well,  you've  come a long way since you first stood by the mailbox outside
the house in the forest. You've defeated the thief, outwitted the Wizard of
Frobozz,  and  now,  you  stand at the foot of the endless stairs, ready to
embark on the final part of your journey. So, pick up the lamp, turn it on,
and  head along due South until you come to the shore of the lake. Drop the
lamp  <say  goodbye to it; you won't be seeing it again>, and jump into the
lake.  Brrrr!!!  Pretty  cold!  So, don't stay in there long; swim west and
then go South into the Scenic Vista.

Kind  of  a  strange  place,  with  changing numbers on the wall and a bare
table...not  quite  all  that scenic, eh? Well, get the torch, and wait for
the  number to change to "II." Then, touch the table. My oh my! You're in a
room  from  Zork II....Room 8, as a matter of fact. However, you don't have
much  time  to sight-see, so get the can of Grue repellant, then try moving
East,  and  you will find yourself back in Scenic Vista again. Now wait for
the  number  to  change  to  "III,"  then touch the table again. This time,
you're  in a Damp Passage. Drop the torch, and just wait there until you're
pulled back to Scenic Vista.

Okay,  you're  finished  here,  so move along North to the shore, and again
jump  in  the  lake. Splash! It hasn't gotten any warmer; in fact, you just
dropped  the  can  of  repellant.  So, go Down, and you will be on the lake
bottom.  Ah,  there  it  is! But, could there be something else there, too?
"Get  all,"  and  you  will have not only the repellant but also an amulet.
This is one of those "wonderful" variable things; it may take more than one
try  on your part to get both items. In the meantime, you can't stay in the
icy  waters  too  long, and sooner or later a hungry fish will come looking
for  you. Therefore, it's best to save the game before you jump in from the
Western  Shore.  So  if  you die in the water, or get eaten by the fish, or
picked up by the Roc <while you're swimming on the surface>, you don't have
to start all the way back at the beginning.

By  the  way, this is the only one of the Zorks where you don't lose points
if  you  die.  But, all the items you've collected so far get scattered all
around, and it's time-consuming to go look for them. Okay, now you have the
can  and  the amulet, so head Up to the surface, then South to the Southern
shore. You can see a cave to the South, and it looks kind of dark. In fact,
it  *is*  dark in there, which is why you have the repellant. So, spray the
smelly  stuff  on  yourself,  and go South, and you will find yourself in a
Dark Place. Go South again, then East, and you will be in the key room.

Whew!  At  least there's some light in here! And by the light you can see a
strange key. Get the key, then move the manhole cover and go down. And here
you  are  on  an  aqueduct.  Since  you  can't  go back <the Grue repellant
wouldn't  have  lasted  that  long>, you might as well go forward. So, just
head  along  North  and you will come to the Water Slide. Go North down the
slide, and guess where you are? In the Damp Passage! And there's the torch,
so   pick   it   up,  because  you're  certainly  going  to  need  a  light
source...especially when you think of where you're going next.

So,  from  the  Damp Passage hike along West to the Junction <you can't get
the  sword  out  of  the  rock,  so don't even try>, then South into Creepy
Crawl, and Southwest into the Shadow Land. Here we come to another variable
portion  of  the  game.  You  will have to wander around in the Shadow Land
until  a  cloaked  and  hooded figure appears. When that happens, the sword
will  suddenly  materialize  in  your  hand, and you will be able to fight.
However,  since  there's  no way of telling when that will happen, you just
have to keep moving around until it does. At least you will get a chance to
practice  some elementary map-making! Also, this is the most dangerous part
of  the  game, as the figure is quite capable of killing you, too! So, best
to save before you enter Shadow Land.

When  the  mysterious  figure  finally  appears, attack him with your sword
until he is badly wounded and cannot defend himself. At that point, get his
hood.  The  figure  will then disappear, leaving the cloak behind. Get that
also.  Now,  you have to get out of here, and I can't tell you exactly how,
since  there's  no  way  of  knowing  exactly where you were when the fight
started.  However,  if  you  go Eastwards, you will exit the Shadow Land at
either  the  Creepy Crawl or the Foggy Room. From either place, go North to
the Junction.

From the Junction, it's West through the Barren Area, and West again to the
Cliff.  Bet  you just can't wait to climb down the rope, huh? Well, pick up
the  bread  first,  then go down to the ledge. Well, well, a chest! Too bad
you don't have a key to open it. In fact, there's no way for you to open it
at  all. But don't despair, there's a way of doing it. Just wait around and
someone will come along the top of the cliff. You may not really trust him,
but tie the rope to the chest when he asks, and wait around some more.

Eventually,  he  will  return  and help you back up the cliff. He will also
give  you  a staff, which is what you're really after here. Take the staff,
then go back down to the ledge, and from there, to the Cliff Base. Now trek
South  to the Flathead Ocean, and do a little more waiting. Sooner or later
a  ship will come floating by. As soon as you see it, say: "Hello, Sailor."
The  man  in  the  ship will throw something onto the beach for you. Take a
look,  and  you will see it's a vial. It'll come in handy later, so pick it
up. Now comes the fun part: You have to wait for the earthquake <notice how
you've  been  doing  a  lot  of  waiting  around?  I  hope you're a patient
person!>.

While  you're  waiting,  you might want to wander around a little, although
you've  been to most of the accessible places by now. In any case, wherever
you  are,  once the earthquake hits, make your way to the Creepy Crawl, and
from  there  East  into the Tight Squeeze, then East again into the Crystal
Grotto.  Then all the way South to the Great Door, and East into the Museum
Entrance.   Now, open the East door, then go North into the Museum. Look at
the  gold  machine  <it's a time machine, in case you were wondering>, then
set the dial to 776.

Here  comes  the  fun  part: Push the machine South into the Entrance, then
East  into  the Jewel Room. Get into the machine, and push the button. Aha!
Now you're back in 776 GUE, but the time machine seems to have vanished! No
matter,  wait  for  the  guards to leave, then get the ring <and *only* the
ring!>,  then  open the door, go out into the Entrance, open the North door
and go North.  By golly, the machine is right there! Put the ring under the
seat,  turn the dial to 948, get in, and push the button. Whew, you're back
in the right time period again. Get out of the machine, look under the seat
<you  will  get  the ring automatically when you do this>, then back South,
and South again, to the Royal Puzzle.

Okay  folks, you are about to enter the absolute nastiest part of the game.
You  must follow the instructions *EXACTLY* as given, or you will never get
out.  And,  since  it  would  be  easy  to  make a mistake here, I strongly
recommend you save the game.

1.  Go  Down the hole, then push the South wall. Then go East, South, East,
East. Push the South wall, get the book, and push the South wall again.

2. Push the West wall twice. Then go East, South, and push the East wall.

3.  Now,  go straight North until you come to the marble wall, and push the
East wall.

4.  Now,  go  West,  South,  South, South, South, East, East, North, North,
North, and push the West wall.

5. From there, go East, South, South, South, West, West, West, West, North,
North, North, West, North. Push the East wall three times.

6.  Now,  West,  West,  South,  South, East, East, South, and push the East
wall.

7.  Okay,  now  West, West, West, North, North, North, East, East, and push
the South wall two times.

8.  From  there,  West,  South, South, East, East, North, and push the West
wall two times.

9. Now, South, West, and push the North wall until it won't move any more.

10. Then West and North.

Finally!  You  have  maneuvered  the  ladder  under the hole <which was the
purpose of all this pushing and running around>, and now you can just go up
and out! WHEW!!!!

Okay,  you've solved the Royal Puzzle and you have the book, so go North to
the  Museum Entrance, then open the East door and get your other stuff from
the  Jewel Room. Then it's back West to the Great Door, and from there back
to  the Junction. Now, East into the Damp Passage, and NE to the Engravings
Room.  Well,  we have here yet another <!> of those variable events: Sooner
or  later,  an  old  man will be sleeping here. If he isn't there the first
time you arrive, walk around a little and return.

When  you  finally  do see him, wake him up and give him the bread. He will
eat  it  and  then  make visible to you a secret door. He will then vanish.
Okay,  you're  getting  closer  to  the end! Open the door, and go into the
Button  Room,  then North to the Beam Room. Put the sword in the beam, then
go back to the Button Room and push the button. Now, back North to the Beam
Room  and North again into the Mirror Room. There will be an opening in the
Mirror,  so  go North one more time, and you will be inside. Now, don't let
the  long and complicated descriptions scare you! It's not really as bad as
you think <it's worse! heheheheh..just kidding!>.

First,  raise  the  short pole. Then, push the white panel twice. Now, push
the pine panel, and go North.  Okay, so here you are, standing a little too
close  for  comfort to the Guardians of Zork. If I were you, I wouldn't try
going  past  them  quite  yet!  Open the vial, then drink the liquid. While
nothing  seems to have happened, you have in fact become invisible. Now you
can  walk  North  until you come to the locked door. Knock on the door, and
the Dungeon Master will open it and let you in.

All  right,  hang  in  there, you have reached the end game! Go North, then
West,  then  North  again.  The  DM  will be following you. Go North to the
Parapet,  set  the  dial to 4, and push the button. Now, go South, open the
cell door, and step inside. The DM will not follow you in. Once inside, you
will  notice  a bronze door in one of the walls. However, you can't open it
yet!  Something else has to be done. And it will have to be done by someone
else. So, first tell the DM to go to the Parapet. Then tell him to turn the
dial  to  1,  and  then tell him to push the button.  All right!! The magic
moment has arrived! Unlock the bronze door with the key, open the door, and
go South!

Finally,  Zork is finished! You have survived all the perils, pitfalls, and
puzzles, and now, YOU are the new Dungeon Master. Have fun!

   * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
