                                  ZORK II
                                 (Infocom)

So,  back  for  more,  eh? Zork I wasn't enough...or did you get hooked? No
matter,  it's  almost  time  to  get started. However, first a few words of
advice. The Wizard of Frobozz is a lot more troublesome than the thief ever
was. This is due to his spell-casting abilities. Therefore, frequent saving
of  the  game  is recommended! Otherwise, you will be wasting a lot of time
waiting for some spells to wear off.

Okay, let's go! Get the sword and lamp, and move along South, South, South,
SW  to  the  Shallow  Ford. At this point, turn on your lamp, then continue
South,  SE  to the North End of Garden. Enter the Gazebo, and get all items
on the table. Then "Exit Gazebo," and go N, NE to the Shallow Ford and fill
the  teapot  with  water.  Now,  head South, SW, SW, and you will be in the
Carousel  Room.  This  is  a  wonderful place that spins you around, so you
can't be sure that you're going in the direction you specify. Fun, huh?

The  thing  to  do  here  is keep moving around until you get to the Riddle
Room.  That room is actually SE of the Carousel Room, but you aren't likely
to  get  there  by  typing SE, at least not for a while. So, every time you
move,  and  find  yourself somewhere else besides the Riddle Room, you will
have  to  return to the Carousel Room and try again. Also, before you start
moving  around, drop everything but the teapot and the lamp; you'll pick up
the  things  again  as  you  need  them.  These are the directions from the
various  other  rooms  to  the Carousel Room: Marble Hall - South Path Near
Stream  -  Southwest Topiary - West Menhir Room - North Cobwebby Corridor -
Northeast  Cool  Room  - Southeast All right, you've finally made it to the
Riddle Room.

Now,  all  you  have  to  do  is answer the riddle! Actually, it's a fairly
simple riddle; just enter: Say "A Well," and you will be able to move on to
the East, which is the Pearl Room. Leave the necklace for now, and continue
East  into the Circular Room. There is a large bucket here, just big enough
for  you to enter, so do that. Then pour water into the bucket, and it will
rise  to  the top of the well. Get out of the bucket, then go East into the
Tea  Room, and get all cakes except the orange one. Eat the green cake, and
you  will  shrink  down. Now, go East into the Pool Room, and throw the red
cake  into  the pool of tears. The water will be soaked up, and you can get
the package of candies. Forget about the flask; there is no use for it.

Return  West  to  the  Posts  Room,  and eat the blue cake. Presto! You are
returned  to normal size. Stretch a little, then head NW into the Low Room.
Aha,  there's  a  robot  here.  Tell  the robot to "Go E," then go that way
yourself, and you will both be in the Machine Room. I wouldn't be surprised
if  the  controls  to  the Carousel room were here! Tell the robot to "Push
Triangular." There will be a thud in the distance (something fell), and the
Carousel  Room is now off. Tell the robot to go South, and do likewise. You
are  now  in  a  Dingy Closet, and a red sphere sits invitingly just beyond
your  grasp.  Try  getting it, and a steel cage will come down over you (uh
oh!).  Not  to  worry,  however! Once the cage is down, just tell the robot
(even  though you can't see him) to "Lift Cage." Once that's done, you will
be able to get the sphere.

Now,  getting  back  to  the  bucket may be a problem of sorts; pushing the
button has caused strange things to happen in the Low Room. So, after going
North  and  West  from the closet into the Low Room, you may have a problem
when  trying to go SE back to the Tea Room. Keep trying however, and you'll
get  there  sooner  or  later.  Then,  go West from the Tea Room, enter the
bucket, get the water, and the bucket will descend again. Get out, drop the
Teapot,  head  West,  pick  up  the necklace, then West again and NW to the
Carousel  Room.  There  is a box here (the thud you heard before). Open it,
and  inside  is  a  violin. You don't need to take it now, so just leave it
here for the time being.

Drop  the  sphere,  necklace  and  candy, then get the sword, place mat and
letter  opener.  Move  North to the Marble Hall, picking up the brick, then
continue  North  until  you  come to the Ledge in Ravine. Go up to the Tiny
Room,  which has a locked door. Slide the mat under the door, then move the
lid  and insert the opener in the keyhole. Remove the opener, then pull the
mat  and  get  the key. Now, unlock and open the door and go North into the
Dreary  Room.  Drop  the key and opener, and get the blue sphere. Now, it's
South and Down to the ledge, then West and North into the Dragon Room (what
would an adventure game be without a dragon?).

He's  not  one  of your nicer dragons, so be careful here. Hit him with the
sword, then move South. He will follow you. Hit him a second time, and move
South  again. He's still following you, and you're almost where you want to
be.  Whack  the  scaly  nuisance  one more time, and head West into the Ice
Room.  Okay,  the  dragon follows you in, gets silly over his reflection in
the  glacier,  and  proceeds to get himself drowned. You can drop the sword
now,  since  you  won't  be needing it anymore. As his body washes away, go
East and SE to the Carousel Room, then SW to the Cobwebby Room.

Get  the string, then go back NE and pick up the newspaper and the matches.
Now  move along NW, West, and West again into the Lava Room. Leave the ruby
for  now, and continue on Southward to the Volcano Bottom. Aha, look what's
here....a  hot  air  balloon! All you need is a way to get it inflated, and
you  just  happen  to  have the means to do that. Get into the basket, then
open the receptacle and put the newspaper inside. Light a match, then light
the  newspaper with the match. Make sure you keep the receptacle open! Now,
just wait until the balloon rises to the Narrow Ledge, then "Land".

Tie  the wire to the hook and get out of the basket. On the ledge is a gold
coin.  Pick  that  up and head South into the Library. Get the purple book,
open it, get the stamp, then drop the book. You can ignore the other books;
they  are  all  worthless. Now, back North and into the basket again. Untie
the wire, and wait until the balloon rises to the Wide Ledge. Again, "Land"
and  tie  the  wire to the hook. Get out and go South. Now, it's time for a
few thrills. Put the string in the brick, then put the brick in the hole in
the box. Now light a match, then light the string.

Now,  head  North  IMMEDIATELY.  There  will  be an explosion, then you can
safely  go  back and get the crown. But don't dawdle; once you have it, get
back  to  the basket pronto! The explosion weakened the ledge, and it won't
hold  much  longer.  So,  get in, untie the wire, close the receptacle, and
wait  until  the  balloon lands at the Volcano Bottom. Well, you seem to be
doing  almost  as  much  travelling  around  as  in  Zork I, and you aren't
finished  yet,  not by a long shot! Go North, get the ruby, then East twice
and SE to (yet again!) the Carousel Room. Drop off everything but the lamp,
then  go  NW,  North, North, West, and West again, and you should now be at
the entrance to the bank.

The  bank  is tricky, so follow directions carefully here. Go NE, then East
into  the  Safety  Depository,  then  South into the office and pick up the
portrait,  and  back  North again. Now, "Enter Light," and you will be in a
small  room.  At  this  point  "Enter  South  Wall," and you will be in the
Depository  again.  "Enter Light" a second time, and you will find yourself
in  the  vault,  with  a pile of bills in front of you. Get the bills, then
"Enter North Wall," and once more you are in the Depository.

Now,  drop the bills and portrait, and go East to the East Tellers Room. Go
East  again to the Depository, pick up the goodies, and "Enter Light." This
time,  you  are in the East Viewing Room. From there, go South and you will
be  at  the  bank  entrance.  You have robbed the bank, and kept the alarms
silent.  Okay,  head along East until you reach the Dragon Room, then North
to  the  Dragon's  Lair.  Leave  the  chest  for  now;  instead, say "Hello
Princess,"  and  wait  until she leaves. Follow her, and continue to follow
her until you are both in the Gazebo, then wait.

The unicorn will appear, and the princess will give you the key from around
its  neck,  and  also  a  rose. You can drop the rose; it has no use in the
game.  Well,  you're  getting closer to the end-game, but there are still a
few things left to do. Exit the Gazebo, then move South, West, SW. Drop off
some  of  the  treasures,  then go back NW, North, North, North to the Lair
again.  Open  the  chest and get the statuette, then return to the Carousel
Room.  From  there, due South to the stairway. This is a good place to save
the  game,  as  you  are about to enter one of the nastier mazes around. Go
down the stairs, and you will be in the Oddly-Angled Room.

Things  are  not always as they seem here, and the exact direction to go at
this  point  is not constant. Try East first, and if you can't go that way,
then  try  West. Either way, you should find a club. Get the club, and from
that point, go SE, NE, NW, SW. Watch the room descriptions carefully as you
do  this;  the  little  diamonds on the floor should get brighter with each
move  you make (you are actually "running the bases" here). If they are not
doing  this,  restore  the  game  and  try  again.  When  you  have done it
successfully, there will be a noise in the distance.

Now,  you should try to go either North or South (that varies also). If one
way  doesn't  work,  try the other, and if neither works, try East or West.
There will be a staircase going down, but you don't want to do that yet, so
go  Up instead, and head North until you are back in the Carousel Room. Get
the  blue  and red spheres and the candy. Drop a few things if you have to,
but  hang  on  to the club! Now, SW twice, and you are in the Guarded Room,
with  a  lizard  head  in  the  doorway. Give the candy to the lizard, then
unlock  the  door  with the gold key. Open the door and go South, then West
twice into the Aquarium. Throw the club at the aquarium, then get the clear
sphere.

Go  East  into  the  Wizard's Workroom. Put each sphere on the stand of the
same  colour, then get the black sphere that appears, and go South into the
Pentagram  Room.  Put  the sphere on the circle, and the Demon will appear.
You must give him ALL the treasures you have collected, as well as the gold
key. This will mean at least one more trip to and from the Carousel Room to
get  all  the  stuff. When you have given everything to the demon, tell the
demon,  "Give  Me  The Wand," and he will take the wand from the Wizard and
give it to you. Now, you're almost finished!

Go  North,  East,  North, North, NE, South, and you are in the Menhir Room.
You  need  to get the Menhir out of the way for a little while, so do this:
Wave  the  wand  at  the  Menhir and say, "Float." The Menhir will rise up,
allowing  you  to  go SW into the kennel and get the collar. After that, go
NE,  then South, then Down, and Down again into the Cerberus Room. Cerberus
is  no  problem;  just put the collar on him. Now, go East, then South, and
you  are in the Crypt. Turn off the lamp, and you will notice a secret door
in  the  south  wall.  Open  the  door and go South, and you will be on the
Landing.  The game is over!! Or is it? After all, there's still Zork III up
ahead!

   * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
