
11/11/89
		 the Berserker - a new class for AD&D game		
 	------------------------------------------------------

		Berserkers are Sub-Class of The fighter class.
they are always Human and they are always true-neutral.
A Berserker's strength and constitution must both be greater than 9,
while the Intelligence must be less than 9.
at 1st level,a Berserker's best allowable AC is 6. Berserkers may use any
magical items available to fighters, with the exception of magical armor and
shields.  in addition to any experience bonuses for strength, Berserkers 
receive double Experience points for kills until they earn their 
wereshape (see below). Berserkers will never have psionics. 
		
           each Berserker must become a Shield brother in one of the following
clans: Wererat,Werewolfs,Wereboar,Weretiger,Werebear.
when the Berserker earns his wereshape he will take that form when Berserker
,receiving all "to hit" and damage bonuses which apply.
the Berserker does not receive any of the special characteristics of 
lycanthropes, though while in wereshape he may melee with creatures which are
only vulnerable to magical weaponry.

			each clan has one ClanMaster, with combat for this top spot being
conducted as with other classes' hierarchies. Shield brothers will always be
friendly and help each other when possible. Failure of the ShieldBrother	
to do so results in outlawry and open season on the outcast.
Neutral lycanthropes of the same type as the clan of a Berserker will not
attack the Berserker ,though they may refuse to give him aid.
when the Berserker earn his wereshape, he gains the ability to speak the
lycanthropic language while in human form, and communicate well enogh 
empathetically with normal animals of his clan type to give simple commands 
which will be followed. 

			Since a Berserker is careless of his person in battle, he relies
on his gods to protect him from the fatal blow, since the gods approve of 
brave deeds (we hope!), the more of them the Berserker preforms, the more
protection he'll receive.  Therefore ,for every 2 levels the Berserker rises,
his best allowable AC is bettered by 1.


		Special abilities and restrictions.
		-----------------------------------
		
level 1: not allowed to hire anyone for anything. Innate ability to recognize
  		 alligment and clan of lycanthropes and other Berserkers on sight.
level 4: reduce chance of being surprised by 1. 
level 6: ability to detect hidden and invisible enemies. Gains a 4th level 
  		 companion who may be any Neutral Fighter type.
level 10:  the Berserker may hire others but hirelings are -2 on loyalty rolls
		   and may never have rating higher than 15.
		   
		Followers.
		---------
		
The appropriate level ,the Berserker will be joined by 2-12 followers with a 
loyalty of 16+. if killed, this followers may never be replaced.
the nature of each follower is determined individually by using the tables
which appear below.

	   Berserking.
  	   -----------		   

There is only a chance of a character Berserkering when the DM deems the 
conditions are suitable for the arousal of battle lust. the basic chance
is 10% for Berserker to go Berserk. a Berserker attack may only be triggered
once in a single incident of melee (which may be continuous over many rounds).
to the basic 10% chance of going Berserk, add 20% of the Berserker bites 		 					
his shield (voluntary); add 10% for eah round of melee (cumulative) that
has passed; and add 10% for each follower or shieldbrother whose death he has
witnessed during the currnet melee.
  the death of Berserker's companion causes an automatic Berserk state.
advatages while Berserking : intelligent opponents must check morale, if
applicable. all attacks by the Berserker are at +2 "to hit" ,in addition
to any STR' bonuses.  The Berserker is immune to psionic attacks while in
Berserk state.  

disadvantages of Berserkering : a Berserker may not withdraw melee while
Berserk. a Berserker remain Berserk for as many melee rounds as he has points 
of constitution, but he attacks at -2 "to hit" and damage for the rest of the 
melee beyond that point.  If in wereshape , he'll maintain it for the duration
of the melee ,even after returning to normal state (non Berserk).


   If a Berserker is still Berserk in the end of the melee ,there is a 10%
chance per round thereafter (non cumulative) that the Berserker turn on 
members of his own party.  his chance should be rolled for each round until
the Berserk fit wears off or until the Berserker is killed or rendered 
unconscious.  deduct 1% per level from this chance, down to minimum of 1%
for all Berserkers except for clanMasters, who will never turn on their friends
 
  the Berserker must rest for a complete turn after each turn 
after each Berserk fit, regardless of it's duration.

EXAMPLE: A werebear Berserker of level 10 with a strenght of 
16 and constitution of 10 will drop his weapons and attack as 
a werebear when Berserk. Hit probability is +3,damage is
2-4/claw and 3-9/bite(3-17/hug). and AC is 2 (7-5).
After 10 rounds ,the Berserker fit will wear off and he will 
fight at -2 each claw doing 1 and each bite 1-6(hug 1-14).


Berserker         clan     advance as	gain wereshape	 max HD		clanmaster 
clan 		           
limitation		wererat      cleric	      6th level		9		    11th level
				werewolf	 druid	      7th level     10			12th level
				wereboar     druid		  8th level		10			13th level
				weretiger	 fighter      9th level     11			14th level
				werebear	 fighter	 10th level		12			15th level
   
   
			 		
			 		   
		   