1

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]
Order:Recieve incoming message.

Computer:Message recieved
Format:Level F encryption.

Order:Decrypt on level F bias.

Computer:Decompressing data, ready for ceasurian shift key.
Key:Author's Notes to ye who read.

Computer:Message decoded.  Prepare for reading.


      Well if you tripped over this message then you either have extra 
time and needed to do something, hit the wrong keys repeatedly, or by
some strange cosmic occurance, really want to read the following novel.
If so I just wanted to get some things straight.

      First, don't bombard the board or it's operator for the next
installement, or any questions about the novel.  Most likly S.A. won't
have it or any answer.  So, if you want to bug someone, just go to 
the message section, choose Science Fiction base, and leave me mail
c/o Kilo Byte Killer.  I'll like to hear your comments, 
suggestions, and even criticisms about it, except spelling and
grammar, because I know they are bad.
      On that subject I wanted to tell you all about the idea behind this
novel and where you're getting it.  I suggested an online book to S.A.
back in the days before the ST FoReM, but the only problem was a lack
of a novel.  Well low and behold, I had one pretty much finished sitting
around on one of my disk.  From there it progressed to what you now see.
Maybe if the FoReM is ever changed you might see it a little better, but
I doubt Singer will add any of what I'm thinking of.
      The book, as I said, was just laying on one of my personal text disk
It had been written from scratch back in the months of January and Febuary
of '86.  You have gained a unique view of an author's(amatuer as he maybe)
ideas and work before it is ever viewed, rejected, or rewritten by a 
editor or the author himself.  That's right I just typed it straight out,
never read more then the previous paragraph to see where I left off.
Though do to the horrendous grammatical errors present I have started to
read it for 'minor' touch-ups in the bigger problems.  You should be
able to see a differance starting with chapter 2 part 3.

      Well remember that I want to hear from you on the Science Fiction
base.  Just leave mail to Kilo Byte Killer(that's me), or reply to one
of the messages already to me.  I'll never know the difference.

      P.S.  Inside the message you can use K. Killer for short, or as some
have adopted over my years of telecomm, KBK, can be tolerated.

                                                      Bye for now,
                                                      K. Killer



Computer:Transimission Ended.  Perliminary data has arrived.  Veiw 
at leisure.  Later transmission will be forthcoming no later then every
fortnight.



Enter selection or <return> for menu: 2

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]


                      TIME LINE OF SPACE HISTORY

     1969:Man first arrives on another celestial body.
     1981:Man begins the large scale commercialization of space with
 reusable cargo orbiters.
     1996:The first off world colony is started on the lunar surface.
 It's purpose is to grow needed food, and remove needed materials from
 the industrial rich moon.
     2005:A second base is set up on Phobos, a moon of Mars, in the
 genesis of the colonization of Mars.
     2011:Martian colony is finished and the terra-forming of the
 Martian environment begins.  Lunar colony becomes independent of
 Earthly aid.
     2020:Through work and use of small strategic thermonuclear
 devices the Martian terra-forming is proceeding well on it's long
 process.
     2067:A new form of space drugs are introduced that allow men to
 work and live in low to null gravity habitats without physical loss
 for close to a year at a time.
     2080:Many of the Asteroids are settled in a race between
 different governments and corporations.  The belt promises to be the
 next industrial center.
     2091:With the new supply of materials from the Asteroids, the
 first artificial satellites are finished for private residence.
 These are the first places were men can live in full gravity off
 Earth.
     2115:Moons of Jupiter are colonized.  Jupiter's atmosphere
 becomes the major fuel source for man's generators and fusion
 engines.
     2131:A breakthrough in fusion engine technology makes a
 revolutionary  step toward the most fuel efficient engines.  A drive
 could now run on a fraction of a percentage of the fuel of it's
 forerunners with the same acceleration.
     2140:Saturn's moons are colonized.  Like it's jovian neighbor, it
 becomes a great source of fuel for man.
     2156:Uranus and Neptune are colonized for mining purposes.
     2160:Mars is at a point where specially designed plants can
 survive on it's surface.  Man spreads these plants across the world
 to aid of converting the carbon dioxide to oxygen.
     2184:Gravity can now be partially negated or created by man
 artificially.  This allows for easier space travel, and colony life.
     2192:Corporations are granted the right to own and govern a
 celestial body.  They quickly claim many asteroids and some of the
 moons of Jupiter and Saturn.
     2203:Population of Earth is now at a record 21 billion people.
 The corporations then allow mass immigration to pre-fab colonies to
 alleviate the swelling problem of housing.  Few respond to the
 offer.
     2230:As the population starts to get worse and people once again
 start to feel the pressure of over population, the Corporations are
 suddenly swamped with request to immigrate.
     2260:The Martian atmosphere is now hospitable to human life.  It
 is predicted that it would finish it's terra-forming process within
 the next 40 to 50 years.
     2286:Physicist announce the possibility of faster then light
 travel.  Much emphasis is put on this project in the Corporations and
 Government(now a single power).
     2290:With the loss of public support, research starts to fall
 off.  Corporations begin to considering dumping the project, while
 the Government leaders push harder for more funding.
     2297:All Corporations have abandoned their own research on faster
 then light travel, but against the will of the people the government
 continues to push the research funding.
     2310:The Government under extreme political pressure continues
 it's faster then light travel research.
     2326:The Government announces the successful development,
 testing, and flight of an interstellar craft using the faster then
 light drive system.
     2327:10 Interstellar ships are introduced for scouting purposes.
 They have only a short range of 5 light years, but are the forunners
 to today's technology.
     2331:The Corporations holdback on interstellar drive systems
 deeming it unprofitable.  The Government introduces a new fleet of 20
 long range(12 light years) scout starships.  They also plan the
 terra-forming of eligible planets and moons.  Plus the starting of
 support bases to help the expanding survey.
     2338:The Government now has four growing support bases that
 supply ships that have now scouted a area with a 40 light year
 radius.  The fleet of 60 scouts and 100 cargo carriers gains an
 addition of another 20 scouts with a 23 light year range.  A new
 robotic terra-forming system is also introduced to the scouting
 service.
     2343:With 7 large and growing support bases, the Corporations
 introduce their own very short range cargo carriers to break the
 Governmental monopoly on interstellar shipping.  The Government
 claims to have seeded over 60 worlds with robotic terra-forming
 systems within it's 165 light year survey radius.
     2349:The Government's scouts find a world with almost Earth like
 conditions.  Simple animal and vegetable life is found.  Support
 bases are quickly built in this direction.
     2356:Another Earth like world is found on the bounds of the 300
 light year search radius.  Study of data lead to predictions of more
 worlds like this to be found the further in towards the core we go.
     2370:The Government has now expanded it's scouting realm out to
 the 700 light year radius, and the search is now concentrated
 coreward using ships with 43 light year range.
     2394:With a new discovery, the Government has now been able to
 expand their drive system to an incredible 62 light year range.  Even
 with the new drive systems, expansion is slowed to a crawl now that
 the overpopulated Sol system is too thinly spread across this arm of
 the Galaxy.  Soon man's largest censuses follows the stop in
 expansion.
     2403:The Census now ended shows a total human population of 72
 billion spread across the Galactic arm, this number quickly grows
 with the excess room and growing colony food supplies.
     2445:The new human domain is compared to the old west of America
 with limited government for small sparsely populated area and bands
 of outlaws waiting on trade routes.  These pirates take advantage of
 the larger area and begin to pillage outlying settlements.  Many
 people pull back in toward the Earth system in what is now known as
 the Great Space Exodus.  A minuscule amount of the population decided
 to stay behind in outer colonies.  With the greatly reduced prey the
 pirates follow the Exodus in.
     2446:The Government is now forced to arm it's ships and suppress
 this piracy where it was more highly concentrated.  Though even with
 this great effort small outbreaks can not be stopped.
     2450:The Government orders the shutdown of yearly space flights
 past the 70 light year population radius, since it needed all the
 ships to fight the piracy and the outlying area was independent with
 it's own farms and automated terra-forming systems anyway.
     2456:The population has now been squeezed back into a 50 light
 year radius by the increased piracy.  The Government now declares war
 on this outlaw faction, and they reinstate the draft.
     2462:With the slow, guerilla, ship to ship combat the war has
 become bogged down to the Pirates advantage.  In this year the
 Corporations are found to own system shattering weapons in the Earth
 system that would violate their charter.  The Government orders the
 immediate surrender of all Corporate weapons and troops, but are
 ignored.
     2463:The Corporations are found to be behind the piracy.  With
 this news the human domain braces for war with the recall of it's
 major forces into the inner systems, namely Sol.  The Secondary
 Exodus is begun with people being moved closer in toward Earth's star
 with almost all of the transports destroyed en route, it turned out
 to be a costly mistake.
     2464:With the majority of the human population destroyed in the
 first few slugs and guerilla actions of the war, which peaked at
 three weeks, it quickly wound down too a stalemate ship to ship
 battle in the Sol system and rarely the systems around it.  As a last
 offensive all ships are called into the Sol system and are never
 heard of again.
     2480:As time passes the closer in colonies slowly see the nova
 like effect in the Sol system and know that they will never see Earth
 again.
          A small group of people did manage retain a few of the older
 less effective starships.  They quickly form a reliance or 'Society'
 as they call it.  Ruled by a group of former leaders that were
 respected in their own communities, they quickly started up an
 emergency supply program to evenly distribute needed supplies among
 the colonies.  This Society basically grew around a hand full of out
 dated starships that should have been museum pieces.
          The outer colonies Consisted of maybe 300 to 400 worlds with
 a total population of 4  to 6 billion.  Many of these worlds are so
 far out and small that they start to regress into primitive
 civilizations.  Others work on trying to retain what little
 technological knowledge they can while they recover from all the
 losses.
     2600:The Society has turned into an oligarchy ruled by hand
 picked governors.  These governors at first were mostly honest, hard
 working people, but with the time of a century they slowly became
 corrupt.  Near the end of this century they started to introduce
 media control and peer pressure on the people.
          Many of the outer worlds are now completing their
 terra-forming processes.  On some of these worlds small groups of man
 are regressing into an era not unlike those of the dark ages.  While
 other worlds are still trying to pull them selves out of this
 devolutionary pit, and retain as much technology as possible.
     2800:The Governors of the Society slowly consolidated their power
 base with the people by following the media control with the
 introduction of drugs to the masses.  From here they gained a class
 of zombie worker not much better then a robot to do the increasing
 labor of the late 28th century.  To continue the individual power
 growths many governors started to genetically breed and train a new
 class of warriors.
          Some of the colonies that were closer in are now starting to
 turn their spiral downwards around.  They start to utilize what
 little technology was left to them and begin to rebuild the past's
 industrialization.  While this turn around is going on many other
 outer worlds are still in a swift fall down.
     3000:The Society has been producing it's own small short range
 starships, and the production of other industrialist items.  The
 Societies Governors are now genetically altering and breeding their
 warriors into high gravity environments, and training them in the
 operation on certain equipment along with the martial arts.  The
 average gravity of the warriors environment is now 1.2 G's.
          The outer worlds are now beginning to start the slow climb
 into the technological realms.  They have been starting to build
 small in system drives, but have had almost no success with the
 faster then light drive system technology.
     3200:The Society is now a thriving high tech community.  With the
 controlled population they have no need for expansion or growth.
 Their workforce is now like an insect colony with different people
 having different genes for different jobs.  The Governors' warrior
 class are now becoming a ugenic army that could crush anything ever
 seen by Earth before.  In fact for experience and breeding the
 Governors have forces compete for bets and elimination of the weaker
 strains.
          The outer worlds are just now arriving at the point of
 interstellar travel.  At first they just spread the technology with
 their few crude ships, but they start to expand into a small free
 trade system.  The lack of ships though limit the performance of the
 new system.
     3400:The Society, in it's snobbish manner, refused and sometimes
 attacked the diplomats sent by the outer worlds, thinking that they
 were barbarians.  This brought small attacks from the outer worlds on
 the Societies supply lines.  In response the Governors started to
 build and arm ship's that would be crewed with their warriors.  The
 warriors, now near genetic perfection and at an average gravity of
 1.9 G's, crewed all ships, plus flew high velocity escorts along side
 them for protection.
     3600:With the protection of the Warriors the Society was almost
 untouchable.  In fear of the Society, the outer worlds formed a
 federation of planets for mutual protection.  This Federation later
 became a centralized government that had ruling power over the small
 districts, but allowed for much local leeway, because of the time
 required to relay a message through space.  The Federation soon
 started to build a military arsenal.
          The Governors now fear the lack of progress in their Society
 compared to the sky rocket of the Federation technology.  They plan
 an eventual take over of the Federation through many miniature
 invasions and weakening blows over the next couple centuries while
 the warriors are built up even more.  For now the warriors are at
 2.1G's
     3800:The Federation has now matched the Old Society (as it is now
 known) in technology.  This progress has forced the Old society to
 pour almost all it's resources into the warrior program which is now
 at 2.3G's.  With the Old Society pushing the warrior breeding project
 they hit a limit at this gravity that stops over 75% from progressing
 any further.  Despite the clumsiness of the project and the drawbacks
 that have now occurred, the warriors are pushed even further.
     4000:The Federation has suppressed many major confrontations with
 the Old Society.  In fact 3 of them were big enough to be called
 wars.  The Old Society have now been concentrating on gaining
 technology to support their eugenic army, by raiding Federation
 installations.  A more careful approach combined with some stolen
 Federation technology has allowed the Old Society to mass reproduce
 those few warriors that have achieved  2.6G's.
     4201:(TODAY)The Old Society has the rise of a small rebellious
 pocket formed from the small intellectual group present below the
 Governors.  The rebels were either killed or exiled to a low tech
 planet.  The Old Society quickly began to control and monitor the
 individual thought of those with higher thought processes.
          This story is of one of these rebellious intellectuals.  He
 is Markus Furate, a warrior caught in the growing tensions between
 the two largest powers of this time.


Enter selection or <return> for menu: 3

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]



                               CHAPTER 1

     The morning chill was accompanied by a heavy fog.  The Alien sun
 came up over the horizon very slowly cutting through the fog like a
 laser through hull plating.  As the sun rose higher into the air the
 morning chill seemed to follow the retreat of the early fog.  Frost
 began to gleam it's icy white off the blades of grass as the sun
 provided light for it's shine, and the plant's life processes.
     I had just awaken a few minutes before dawn to find the cabin I
 had previously occupied replace with this cold, but pleasant setting.
 They must have drugged me and dropped me off here not caring what
 became of me.  That did not really matter to much I guess, since I do
 not care what happens to them either.
     Getting up I found that this celestial body, be it planet or
 moon, was around a full Gravity, and had a close to standard
 atmosphere.  The vegetation seemed like a clone of Earth, so it
 looked like I would not die from starvation or gas poisoning.  They
 also had taken my old coveralls and had given me a cheaply made shirt
 and trousers of burlap.  That must mean that they dropped me off on a
 world with low tech communities, and this is the local costume.  Well
 overall things did not look to bad after all.
     Just then I felt and heard the crumpling of paper in the pocket
 of my trousers.  I opened it up and removed the object.  It was a
 note written on paper not of the usual kind, but of water stained
 papierous.  That must be so I did not stick out.  Folded inside were
 two iron rods and a small knife.  I took these and placed them in my
 pocket while I proceeded to read the note.
     "Markus 482131:
      You have been duly exiled into a primitive culture of Darmain.
 This world has formed into a feudal system much like those of Early
 Earth Europe.  You are to blend in and live a nondescript life, and
 do not interfere with the technological advancement of the world.
 You have been provided with two sticks that can be used as a compass,
 and a map can be seen by holding this letter of exile to the light.
 May your way be the way of the Society.

                                                  By the order of the
                                                 Council of Governors"

     If that was not the stupidest way to exile someone then all my
 knowledge of history could not give you a worse example.

                              *    *    *

     The smell of animal excretions was just an added description for
 this area.  The map had taken me to a town that sat on top of a large
 ledge of a mountain.  It was about 300m above the base of the
 mountain and had a nice 3m stone wall surrounding the edge.  The
 fortress, as it now appeared to be, could only accessed by a
 drawbridge that went to an adjacent cliff at the same basic level.
 As you crossed the drawbridge you found quarried granite like those
 found in old castles, thacthed roofs, cobble stone street, and
 merchants everywhere giving the whole setting that medieval look.
     As I had been coming into the fortress I had noticed that the
 construction of all this would be almost total beyond any
 capabilities these people might have.  Like how did they get all that
 finely quarried rock up here, let alone the people to do the work.  I
 had noticed a portion of the town actually lies underneath a carved
 niche, but that could not supply that much good rock.  Plus the cliff
 that was adjacent to the drawbridge was not nature's, but as I came
 closer it had to be the work of blasting.  It just seemed real
 strange that they would build a primitive castle when they still
 could use the high tech equipment, or was it outside intervention.
     As I walked down the center of the market street I noticed
 something very odd.  None of the merchants where trying to sell me
 anything.  From the looks of it they could barely keep their hands
 off the other people walking up and down the center like I was.  They
 were yelling in the german like language of the locals at every
 passerby excluding myself.  Finally, in bewilderment I went to one of
 the few booths empty of customers and went to see what they had that
 I might not want.
     While I stood near by looking at the jewelry that this booth
 sold, the owner came up to me in an outrage and said, "You miserable
 pauper.  How dare you ruin the integrity of my booth by looking as if
 you were going to buy something.  You could not afford the crumbs
 from the bakery shop probably."  With this he began to move me out of
 his shop.  Now I realized that the clothes I now wore was just burlap
 roughly cut and sown into a shirt and trousers.
     Somehow I would have to make money to survive on.  I could get a
 job as a mercenary, but I would need to buy gear plus I did not know
 if they even had them in this world.  I was pretty much convinced
 that I would not get a job on a ship maintenance crew, no matter how
 much experience I had.  Teaching history was out, since they did not
 know much pre-exodous probably, and I was in no position to know this
 world's history either.
     I would just have to wait it out and see what came by.  For now I
 was wondering where I could just spend the night out of the wind,
 cold and rain.  I suppose some of the alleys between the buildings
 inside the huge niche might be at least hospitable.  I should have
 some new ideas in the morning.
     I went into the section that the carved overhang covered.  As I
 entered the sheltered area I found an alley with a nice pile of hay
 near the end.  It looked like this was to be my refuge from the
 dawning night.  When I approached the pile of hay though, I noticed a
 glint of metal from under the straw.  Just my luck I would have to
 fish someone's roof thacthing tools out of my future bed.
     Sticking my hand carefully into the stack I quickly found an
 oddly shaped object.  Pulling it out I found what looked to be a
 crowbar with an ice pick at the other end.  With closer examination
 though I found the pick end had small glass fragments caught in the
 rough surface.  It must be some local thieving tool with a glass
 cutter and pry bar all in one.  Throwing it away I continued to
 explore the stack for objects which may harm my sleep.  In a few
 minutes I had pulled out a throwing knife with dried blood on it, a
 small pouch of assorted gold and platinum ingots, and finally I found
 a wooden shield like object adorned with all types of paints, gems,
 and precious metal inlay.
     Looking over what I had dug out of this miserable old rotting
 pile of hay made me come to a quick conclusion.  This was the loot
 from some thief's work, and it looks like he got a pretty good catch
 at that.  What I could piece together with this sketchy evidence went
 like this,  the culprit had broken into a house or something that
 belonged to someone basically rich, if not nobility, stabbed someone
 while taking this shield like coat of arms, finally taking the
 decease's pouch of money in the exit.  After the crime he must of
 stashed here all the evidence until the tension of search was gone.
 My final conclusion was that this had to be returned, since they
 might offer a reward.
     To my right I saw an old roughed up bag.  I took the bag and
 placed all this stuff in it.  While I was placing the shield
 delicately into the bag I noticed two long shadows, produced by the
 low sun, of people in the alley entrance.  I turned and stood to find
 the two figures slowly approach me with some sort of drawn weapons.
 I dropped the bag behind me in the corner of the alley and prepared
 to defend my position.
     The one on my left seemed to ready to charge as he uttered,
 "We'll teach you to steal our loot, right Rogth."  With that he
 charged with his short sword, and closely followed by his strangely
 named friend Rogth, who was only armed with a long hunting knife.
 The ineptness that they presented with this group attack was almost a
 joke.  As they closed the distance of the long alley, Rogth almost
 got directly behind his friend with that hunting knife.  Clearly no
 more then a simple cutthroat.
     As the one with the sword came into striking distance he
 telegraphed clearly his actions.  He raised his sword over his
 opposite shoulder in a diagonal stroke for my inside collar bone.
 His blade flashed downward not drawing a drop of blood, but instead I
 side stepped it and grabbed his wrist turning his hand outward to
 make a forced drop of the sword.  From here I simply lifted his bent
 wrist and pushed back against him.  This move knocked him on Rogth's
 knife, and gravity proceeded to make cut fatal.  With the added
 weight Roght dropped the knife and deliberated running in his state
 of mild mental shock.  I quickly answered the question for him by
 knocking him out with a quick blow to the neck.
     By this time the sun was just about below the horizon.  The
 streets outside the alley were near empty as the light drained from
 the city.  I walked to the end of the alley and found what I needed,
 a primitive,large wheel barrel.  I proceeded to borrow it from its
 absent owner, and take it down the alley way.  I piled the bag, and
 not so healthy thieves onto the bed of the cart.  When I backed out I
 noticed the owner of the hand cart looking for it.  I quickly
 detoured questions by saying, "Where do I take these two brigands."
 She just brought here hand to her mouth and pointed towards the gate.
 I ran on and yelled back, "Thank you."  I wonder how long it would be
 before she noticed I had taken here hand cart?
     At the gate I found some uniformed men carrying polearms, so I
 assumed that they were the local guards.  I wheeled my load up to
 them and said, "I just caught these two scoundrels in an alley trying
 to retrieve the loot that they had previously stolen and hidden in
 that specific alley."
     The guard looked at me in a stare of half understanding.  Maybe I
 had used some words that are not't present in this specific dialect,
 or maybe I had surprised him and he did not pick up the whole jist of
 what I meant, but as I pondered the possibilities he asked, "You
 caught these two and killed the one yourself?"
     "Yes", what else could I say?  He proceeded to examine the bodies
 as a few other guards surrounded me.  Then he saw the bag and he
 became interested in what it may contain.  He opened it up and pulled
 the shield like thing out in awe.  Then signaling to some sentries on
 the wall who went quickly to execute some command.  Then he turned to
 me and said, "I think you just caught the master thief Manth, and his
 apprentice Rogth."

                              *    *    *























Enter selection or <return> for menu: 
The On-Going Novel, Chapter by Chapter.....

 1) New preface by the author-READ THIS!
 2) Introduction to the novel.
 3) Chapter 1, Part 1.
 4) Chapter 1, Part 2.
 5) Chapter 1, Part 3.
 6) Chapter 2, Part 1.
 7) Chapter 2, Part 2.
 8) Chapter 2, Part 3.
 9) Chapter 2, Part 4.(02/18/87)
 10) Chapter 2, Part 5.(2/28/87)
 11) Chapter 2, Part 6.(3/15/87)
 12) Chapter 2, Part 7.(4/06/87)
 13) Chapter 2, Part 8.(4/28/87)
 14) Chapter 2, Part 9 (5/26/87)
 15) Chapter 3, Part 1 (8/04/87)
 16) To be continued.....


Select (Q=Exit)> 4

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]

                              *    *    *

     I was escorted to a large fortified villa on a ledge on the other
 side of the mountain.  It was accessed through a rather large cave,
 which I reckon had been enlarged by men before the loss of machine.
 The villa over looked miles of forest and farm land from a vista of
 500m from the base of the mountain.  What I saw of it was made of
 marble and granite carved straight from the mountain side.  The
 guards kindly asked me to enter a waiting room and then left closing
 the door behind me.
     The waiting room I was in was a spectacular garden.  It consisted
 of a path which wound through the shallow garden and a few benches
 placed around the room.  The wall opposite the door was a huge open
 window with columns holding up the high ceiling here.  From here it
 seemed that the plants would get a good amount of sunlight, and water
 from the springs I could here trickling near the door.  The room
 overall was a small paradise.
     To entertain myself I looked out on the dark landscape that lay
 below the window and tried to pick out specific details.  It was
 pretty hard, because I was just seeing the vague shapes and regions,
 because of my genetically breed special night vision.  About ten
 minutes after the sun had past well beyond the horizon opposite this
 rooms view, a fairly large moon past out from under some cloud cover,
 and spread some light through the region.  With this added moon light
 and the clean air of this world I was able to discern the landscape
 quite well.
     As I looked out over the landscape and memorized the patterns,
 the door behind me opened with the click of many feet entering the
 room and coming to a sudden stop in what sound like ridged stances in
 armour.  Then a young voice came alive and said, "All hail the King
 and procession."  With this I turned and looked at what was
 progressing.  There were two guards on either side of the door
 wearing full plate armour like that used on Ancient Earth.  To the
 side of the door was a rather regaly dressed youth who must have
 announced the king and his fellow blue bloods.  Entering the garden
 in haste was a large strong man wearing a light chainmail with a
 great horned helm.  The helm was greatly decorated, and a breast
 plate over the mail was like that shield I had found earlier.  That
 means that this must be the king and I must of saved his coat of
 arms, or some local symbol very close in relative meaning.  I decided
 to treat him with the honor that he expected, by giving him a formal,
 low bow at the waist like I have always learned.
     I could hear him walk towards me as I stayed in this position.
 In fact I could see that he had walked directly in front of me,
 because of his feet standing right under my eyes.  Then I heard a
 chuckle and the man in front of me, probably the king, said, "What do
 you call this my poverty stricken son?"
     Hearing this I came back up to a more comfortable standing
 position.  The king had removed his helm and now held it under his
 left shoulder.  He had a thick beard and mustache of dark brown hair
 to match his long mane in back.  He stood about my height of 192cm,
 and there was no way I could tell what he weighed with or without all
 that armour.  From the expression of his face he seemed amused with
 something.
     "Is something wrong sir?", I asked.
     He chortled deeply again giving me the feeling that he was
 probably built like this mountain under that armour.  Then he
 replied, "Ohio, I like the nerve of this one.  What did you say?  He
 killed Manth and his apprentice unarmed?  Get lucky my son?"
     "No sir, if I may explain.  I am trained in the ways of
 weaponless combat along with those of assorted weapons.  The form of
 combat is called the Martial arts, which encompasses all forms of
 fighting.  If I may ask again sir, is something wrong?"
     "Well tell you the truth I have never heard of any story worse
 then that, and that was the poorest example of kneeling I have ever
 seen.  Though to tell you the truth I feel like believing you, if you
 can prove it of course.", he said almost as a challenge.
     "As a warrior I have learned that bowing is a sign to honor
 anyone, like an opponent, an elder, or maybe just a teacher.  I also
 learned that a true warrior only kneels in defeat and disgrace to his
 master and victor.", I curtly replied feeling as if I had pushed my
 luck a little to far.
     The smile was evaporating from the king's face very slowly with
 each word.  Then after some thought he replied, "Your King is not
 your master and victor?"
     "Have we meet in combat ever?", I replied with a smile on my
 face.
     He seemed to grasp what I was talking about and let out another
 barrage of laughs.  Then coming to my side and putting his arm around
 me he asked jolly, "Well warrior how do you have honor without
 armour?"
     "Armour", I laughed, "is worthless to me.  I fight best without
 encumbrance.  What about you."
     "Armour is my heart and soul.  I would be little without in the
 eyes of my lesser's.", and when he finished the sentence I noticed we
 were not speaking the German like local dialect, but pure English.  I
 am so fluent in both languages that I never noticed the difference.
 How did he know that I would know this language, and do the guards
 know English.
     "How did you learn English when your people know German?"
     He signaled for the guards to leave.  Then after they had exited
 with some hesitation he turned and asked, "May I ask your name?"
     "I am called Markus Furate.", I said.
     "What did the Old Society stop using code numbers or did you just
 derive that name from your serial?", he said in English.
     "How do you know about the Society?", I quickly gasped in
 horror.
     He chuckled again and then started into his story, "I was once an
 Old Society warrior like you.  I was a spy and sabature, but in a
 conflict with one of the Governors I got exiled like many of the
 intellectuals who just suddenly disappear.  They must of not had a
 record of my exile if they sent you to the same place, but anyway.
 From the looks of it you are probably four generations ahead of me,
 and what a fine job they had done if you ask me.  What gravity were
 you breed at?"
     "3.001 G's", I said softly not knowing who might be listening at
 the door.
     He let out a good long whistle then in slight awe exclaimed, "You
 are a lot farther on then I was.  I only got to 2.822 G's.  In my day
 they said that no one could get past the 3G limit...  Wait, what am I
 thinking?  It has been close to 60 years since I was exiled.  I bet
 you did not know that even with our already long lives we age even
 less in this lower gravity.  It has its draw backs to I guess."
     We both knew what he was talking about.  The longer you spend in
 the lower gravity the more accustom you become to it.  In the end,
 even with lots of exercise, you eventually loose the extra strength
 and you can't return to the old gravity level.  If he has been here
 for 60 years then he could not be to much more then an ordinary man.
     Then he started up again, "WHat are you calling me sir for?  You
 are the ranking officer here.  In fact when the briefing came in I
 knew what you were, and I was surprised to have a person destine for
 governorship when they told me you had blond hair and blue eyes.
 Those still are saved for the Governors, right?"
     I nodded and then said, "I do not want to infringe on your
 territory, so if I could just borrow some money and a sword I can get
 out real quick."
     "You can not leave.  When you brought back the coat of arms you
 became a hero, and when the public finds out that you are only a
 poverty stricken youth who fought gallantly while unarmed and
 outnumbered.  Ohio, won't you shine in the populace's eyes.", he had
 worked him self up to another good volley of laughs, "I will just
 have to knight you I guess."
     He was hysterical at this point.  Then I caught the jist of it,
 he would knight me into his society and by custom make me wear the
 accursed armour.  That stuff would get you killed.  It did not allow
 for any quick dodges, or powerful strokes without gravity's aid.
 "You are not going to get me into any of that skin tight death traps
 are you?", I asked.
     "You know I once thought the same as you did, but I put the damn
 stuff on and lived with it.  What you wear here is all that counts,
 and it just so happens that shining armour counts the most.  I did
 not get used to it until the good old arthritis set in.  Now I need
 the armour to fend off the blows that I can not block.", he was now
 looking into his slowly opening and closing hand with a twang of pain
 on his face.
     Realizing that I was still here he abruptly looked up and said,
 "I'll call the guards to escort you to a guest room until we get you
 a permanent residence.  I'll also have one of those old sages bring
 you some reading material on the local customs, codes, traditions,
 and maybe some political history.  Good night, Markus", turning on
 his heels he exited the room allowing the guards to enter.

                              *    *    *

     The reading material turned out to be quite an experience.
 Normally I had always absorbed the reading material through hypnosis
 and tape.  Then when I had finished a book (around 3 hours), I would
 review the material with an instructor to allow my mind to sort it
 into a reasonable organization.  I only had to read books when the
 voice tapes were not available, and that only happened twice.  Now
 that I had this actual paper book bound and covered with wood and
 cloth I was starting to enjoy this form of information gathering.  It
 allowed for your own imagination to take over by editing the text in
 your mind.  With this editing you gain more creativity with your
 ideas which was totally avoided in the Old Society.  Overall I
 enjoyed the slower process much more.
     This society was based on Ancient England alright.  Though not of
 fact, but of legend, particularly the ones dealing with Aurthur and
 his round table.  Men would wear armour to show his position.  The
 feudal system was in existence in some places, but mostly it was
 looked down on.  Chivalry was still dead by the looks of it, but some
 progress seemed to have been made in the ways of Equal rights.  Women
 had just as much chance to become knights, and wear armour as men,
 but of course women have less physical strength and that greatly
 limited the number of women knights.  In fact as I read on I found
 that the youth's first experience with fighting and training came
 from his or her mother.
     As I read further I noticed to my surprise one parallel with the
 legends that I thought would be forgotten, Magic.  It was a subject
 that seemed to be avoided in conversation and public knowledge, but
 it did seem to exist.  The wizards were generally shunned and lived
 as hermits with their own political system.  Rarely they would
 transact with the normal populace, and sometimes the aid of magic was
 sought by someone in need.  Maybe these are also just legends, I
 thought.
     I spent nearly two full days in my guest room just reading over
 all this new material.  Every now and then a servant would enter with
 a tray of food and drink.  Once the King entered and told me the
 situation.  As it turned out I was to be knighted, like in the old
 days, three days from the act of saving the coat, as local custom
 dictates.  During this time I was to meditate on the holiness of my
 act, and how my life is to become virtues after this, but the King
 just handed me some more books and winked saying, "Keep up that deep
 thought know."
     On the third day I had to pick out my armour and weapons from the
 castle stores.  The armour I had picked out was the closest fit that
 I could come by, in other words they just might be able to make it
 fit snugly on me.  The armour quickly took my measurements then went
 off on to his own work.
     Then we proceeded onto the choosing of weapons which was much
 more to my liking.  Instead of the broad selection of many swords
 which the keeper bragged about I was confronted with a broad
 selection of heavy unwieldy medieval swords.  They had nothing in the
 lines of a good modern blade.  After I had rejected all the offers of
 the attendant and searched through the countless cases, I came across
 a barrel of old dusty weapons sitting in one corner.  In amusement I
 left the attendant behind trying to open a stuck case, while I looked
 on my own.  In the barrel were many cheap weapons that they must pass
 out to the farmers or something during war, but one blade stuck out
 of the group.  It was a bastard sword with a simple leather wrapped
 hilt.  I picked it up to find the balance not that of a sledge hammer
 like the others, but one of elegance.  It weighed about 12kg and for
 someone of my strength and weight it handled like an elegant sword of
 the past.  It had a blade that had been made in some way that I did
 not even recognize, but it was obvious that the method used was
 second to none.  The blade ran approximately 1.5m with a barb about
 .3m from the top of the hilt.  As I ran my hand down the finely done
 blade I found to my surprise no inscriptions or carving like on most
 of the others.  Greatly satisfied with my stroke of luck I strapped
 it on under my cloak.
     The attendant who had just gotten the case door open rounded the
 corner and said, "Sir, you do not want that cheap old thing.  It is
 not a knight's weapon, so if you will give me that, and come look at
 these over here you might find something you like."
     "I like this one.", I said refusing to hand it over.
     "Please sir, it would be degrading for you to carry a sword that
 the lowest of peasants would not take.  That is the only sword in the
 militia supply that has never been used.  Please, just let me have
 it."
     Drawing the sword I held it in one hand in front of his face and
 said, "The reason no one picks it is because it is to heavy for most
 to wield, but it is just right for me.  Also look at the blade.  Have
 you ever seen anything like this before?"
     He examined the edge of the blade for a while and then looked up
 in question, "So it's real sharp?  A knight has armour that will
 quickly dull such a blade and then you would have nothing more then a
 cudgel."
     "Are you ignorant or what?  This blade was made in some way
 neither of us have probably ever seen before.  It will cut through
 the best armour as if it were margarine."  Then it hit me the.  I
 should have seen it there, but it was covered up by the advanced
 metallurgy.  This blade was coated with some sort of anti-friction
 finish, and with closer examination it seemed to be worked into the
 metal somehow.
     "What the hell is margarine?", he asked as I examined the blade
 still more.
     "do not worry about it", I said as I walked out of the stores.

                              *    *    *
















Enter selection or <return> for menu: 5

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]

     "I here you gave Jurgen a hard time down in the armory."
     The king had just walked in to my room as I shined the sword and
 polished the leather sheath.  He was carrying his short sword which
 was for ornamental usage only, but as his eyes struck the strange
 glimmer this sword gave off in the sunlight, I could see he would
 rather have this old thing.  He came over and picked it up off my lap
 to test it out, but when he picked it up he quickly decided that it
 was to heavy for his now mortal body.  Handing it back to me he
 asked, "I have never seen that one before where did you find it
 Markus?"
     "It was in a junk barrel for the use of the local militia.  I am
 probably the only one on this world that can easily wield this fine
 blade, but what got me was how finally balanced it was compared to
 those sledge hammers you guys use.  Then I noticed the quality of the
 blade and I had to have it.", I said.
     "What is it that is coating it.?", the King asked.
     "I have no idea, but it seems to have been worked into the metal
 when it was applied as a finish.  The workmanship of it seems to go
 beyond anything I have ever seen."
     "I know why Jurgen disagreed with your choice, and he was right.
 That blade looks no better then a farmer's hoe.  The people expect to
 see someone of your temporary stature carry a jeweled weapon with
 fancy gold inlay.  So to keep it safe we will both just ignore it
 until your popularity wears out, OK?", he finished sticking his hand
 out like is done in the Federation.
     I shook his hand in agreement and said, "Just as long as I can
 keep it."  Then I raised a question over something that everyone
 seemed to be saying in their speech, "What is this big thing about my
 popularity?"
     "Ohio, I guess you wouldn't know would you.  The people had been
 down for a few weeks over the missing coat, but when they heard it
 had been retrieved it was like all of ancient America had just gotten
 their star spangled banner back from ancient Russia.  You are the new
 local hero to tell you the truth.  I do not think it will last much
 longer then a few weeks though.", he finished shaking his head.
     He got up and began to leave the room.  When he reached the door
 he turned causing a long shadow to fall over the hallway in the low
 evening sun, and said, "You better get some rest for the armourer
 will be back to make some last minute alterations, and do not bother
 him to much will you.", he smiled, turned and left.

                              *    *    *

     My knighting was to be held in the main hall of the palace.  As I
 entered the hall I saw an architect's dream.  The hall was about 50m
 by 10m with a gothic ceiling of about 5m in height.  The whole room
 was flooded with light, while in alcoves on either side of the hall
 gardens thrived on the light and spring water from one of the many
 natural springs in this mountain.  As I stood in one of the hidden
 alcoves putting on my newly fitted armour I could here the people
 piling in and sitting at the long feasting tables.  After I got the
 armour all on, I waited for my cue.
     As I waited I could here the kings procession approaching the
 hall.  The people suddenly became quite and shuffled around, probably
 to make way for his majesty.  Then his young page came in and said,
 "All stand and hail the King."
     With this some music was played and I could see the king come up
 to to the throne.  Then he stood in front of the throne and began his
 speech.
     "We are gathered here today to honor a man who has saved our
 pride and honor.  Without weapon or proper training he gallantly
 approached the two demons who had stolen the coat, and he fought his
 hardest against Manth the master thief and his apprentice Rogth, both
 of whom were armed with deadly weapons.  We of Excavon need new
 strength to aid us in our future.  May I know present to you, Markus
 Furate.", the king finished holding out his hand in my direction.
     I walked briskly to the head of the throne where he indicated and
 stood facing the audience.  The hall had been filled to a point of
 over-crowding.  The audience was yelling stamping and clapping
 furiously.  When the uproar had settled to a mild roar I turned to
 the king for the continuation of the ceremony.
     He signaled for me to kneel.  As I did go to my knees he drew his
 sword and held it high in front of his face.  When I had arrived at
 my knees and looked up at him giving him the signal to proceed he
 raised the sword and brought it softly down to each of my shoulders
 in that sign of mock defeat.  In fact the whole process symbolizes
 how he saves my life by not decapitating me and how I pledge my life
 to him since it is now his.  From here he said, "Do you grant thine
 life for your lord?"
     "Yes.", I said with a little bit of irony.
     "Then rise and acknowledge your lord, 'sir Furate'", he indicated
 with his sword.  I stood and he began to speak again, "I give you the
 coat of the bear for your naturalness as a warrior and your amazing
 strength.", he handed me the freshly made coat of arms and I bowed to
 show my gratitude and honor for him.
     Then he roared out in laughter and said, "Let the festivities
 begin."
     At the end of that sentence two things happened.  First, a volley
 of arrows came through the arched windows of the hall.  As the first
 of the arrows hit the random targets about the room, a sentry from
 the gate came bursting through the doors yelling, "We are under
 attack."
     While I quickly removed this restricting armour I looked back at
 the king.  He already had his sword drawn and was about to go to
 defend the main gate.  Though when he saw me he signaled me towards
 the roof.  As he ran on shouting orders I decided what must be done.
     In a few moments the second volley came through the windows.
 This was my mark for action.  I quickly took a step and flipped up
 onto the ledge, taking advantage of the worlds lower gravity.  From
 here I could see the invading forces who had launched the barrage of
 arrows into the great hall.  They were standing in one of the
 terraced gardens just below the window where I now stood.  They must
 have climbed the 500m up to that ledge while it remained unguarded
 for the ceremonies.  By this time they had spotted me and started to
 fire.
     In a quick upward jump, I flipped over their missiles and landed
 squarely in their unprepared mist.  Since they had just shot at me
 with the arrows they could not use the bows against me this close.
 As I pulled my sword off my back and slowly moved toward the garden's
 back wall, I noticed that non of these men were armed besides a
 hunting knife and the bow of course.  A few of them were not armed
 and protested the melee while the rest drew the knives.  They slowly
 began to advance.
     There had been a standard unit of 20 archers, but 4 of them had
 started to climb back down the rope.  Now I was confronted by 16 men
 slowly advancing in on me with thin, sly, little knives that they had
 carried up on their calves during the climb.  They seemed to be very
 sure of them selves seeing that they, one outnumbered me, two they
 had leather jackets on, and three I had no armor what so ever.  Well
 were they wrong on the last two.
     As they closed the distance I waited for the perfect moment to
 take the initiative.  Then, as the time became right, I took a step
 forward toward my left side, jumped in the air, did a forward flip in
 the air flailing my sword , and landed facing the remaining archers,
 and of course dropping the head, that belonged to the one who had
 been in front of me at the beginning, to the ground.  Setting my plan
 in motion, I swiftly went to the ropes they had placed here and
 severed each one.  As I did I could here 4 distant screams grow even
 more distant.  Now they could not escape or get help from below.  By
 the time I had finished my closing the retreat avenue, the first of
 the archers had turned and charged toward me.  Staying low, I swept
 him with my right foot so he fell towards me, but I followed him up
 with my right foot and with some help from my hands he went flying
 over the side.
     Seeing the charging mass I rolled over my left shoulder to get me
 free of the rush and the cliff.  I came up into a kneeling position
 that then yielded into a low stance.  The men in the feverish rush
 had pushed one off the cliff themselves and were now turning to kill
 me in the anger of shame.  Also in the anger all 13 lost the rational
 thought necessary to win, and became instant beserkers.
     I slammed into the chaotic mass with my sword flashing.  With a
 few more steps of advance, I stepped onto one of the attackers bent
 knee and then hopped up to two other's shoulder and head to give me
 height and momentum for a flip across the length of the terrace.
     When the nine remaining attackers turned to see where I had gone
 now they saw the sight that had prompted my sudden move.  Standing
 behind me with weapons drawn were 5 of the palace guards.  The
 archers lost morale almost instantly.  Some of them dropped the
 knives and ran for the now missing ropes, while another jumped off
 the cliff in fear.  The guards rushed up and apprehended the
 remaining archers then awaited their orders.  I told them, "Tie them
 up and set them on the wall around the garden.  If they give you any
 trouble kick them off, and use them for shields if the ground troops
 attack.  Also take the arrows and fire down at anything that moves."
     When they had confirmed the understanding of that long order, I
 left to help in the defense of the main gate.  As I ran through the
 castle and cave that leads to the city I noticed a strange emptiness.
 Probably because I thinking that the women and children would be
 hiding in here, but then I remembered that they carried supplies,
 knocked over siege equipment like simple ladders, made boiling oil,
 and fought when the defenses was breached.  Just while I was thinking
 of the subject a group of children ran out of in front of me carrying
 arm loads of weapons and rolling barrels of supplies.
     When I reached a vantage point I surveyed the situation.  The
 invaders seem to have control of the gatehouse, bridge and just
 inside the doors.  Even though they were surrounded on this side of
 the wall, a few tried to scale the walls in other places.  The
 invaders were clearly outnumbered in the small space of the gate, but
 the defensive point of the gate house seemed to be well held against
 us.  The gatehouse at this point was the key, since as long as the
 bridge was down they had reinforcements.  Then seeing what was needed
 I headed for the nearest bar.
     I was at a disadvantage from not seeing to much of the city
 before this, but I had little trouble finding an appropriate
 business.  I went inside and tore down the curtains that were in the
 windows.  Going behind the bar know, I proceeded to transfer the
 stronger spirits to the curtain.  Then when I had got about 20
 bottles, I picked up the corners and carried the baggage to the
 wall.
     Standing below the wall I found some children to help me.  I gave
 them the curtains and told them tear big strips to wad in the
 bottles.  While they got on with the task I opened the bottles and
 gave the children them to fix.  As they continued the job I ran down
 the length of the wall until I found a torch.  Taking it with me, I
 told the children to carry the bottles up the ladder with me and then
 leave.  They did what they where told, and I proceeded in my plans.
     Taking the torch in one hand and the bottle in the other, I
 proceeded towards the gatehouse.  Not seeing any arrows flying by I
 assumed that archers were not trained on the wall.  I climbed up to
 the roof of the wall and continued on toward the gatehouse along this
 incline.  I reached the gate house turret and dropped the bottle to
 pick up the wooden hatch that I had found in the center of the floor.
 As I opened it with one hand I lit the bottle and knocked it in with
 the other.  After I heard it hit something and the roar of fire I
 closed the hatch and went for the rope protruded from here.  The
 wench below was burning and the rope was about to be pulled up to the
 top of the frame.  The frame housed the pulley that lifted the bridge
 for protection.  Before the rope came loose from below I tied it to
 one of the merlins that made up the higher portion of the wall here.
     When the rope was secured I went back to the bottles of liquor
 and took them back to the gatehouse, via the roof.  From here I lit
 one after another of the bottles and threw them onto the attackers
 beyond the bridge.  In panic many of the invaders fled into the
 growing fire to leave the remaining invaders to be easily over
 powered.  When our people had pushed them back to the fire I yelled
 to them to get off the bridge and prepared myself to pull.
     I climbed down into the smoking gatehouse and took the remains of
 the rope and worked them into a pulley below this floor, and then
 reworking the rope backup to this level.  When I had it I started to
 pull with all my might.  At first I just used my arms, but found that
 it would take more to pull it from the rocks.  I squatted then and
 started to push against the stone floor with my legs, while my arms
 and back strained on the rope to make it budge.  I could feel my
 muscles ripple in spasms as I continued in this task that now seemed
 impossible.  Seconds seemed to stretch into infinity as I looked for
 not more outward strength, but my inner strength.  With concentration
 I felt a warm sensation flow through me and I could also feel the
 bridge budge from it's wedge outside.  From here I slowly pulled the
 rope in hand over hand, until I had pulled the bridge to a position
 so it laid back up against the main doors.  Now that it could be left
 alone, I collapsed and felt like I wanted to be in the same
 position.









































Enter selection or <return> for menu: 6

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]


                                   CHAPTER 2

        My nostrils flared with the sent of freshly cut pine.  The
    relativity new experience stung my nose as I tried to retrieve the rest
    of my senses.  The sounds of splitting wood soon accompanied the strong
    aroma of the fallen pine trees.  The chopping was a swift rhythmic beat
    with some metal wedge or other tool, but I was definite now of the
    source of the smell.  With some pain I opened my eyes to a very bright
    scene that forced me to close them again with a groan.
        Then with a stop of the chopping and the dropping of the rather
    heavy sounding tool being used, I could here the approach of heavy
    booted feet.  The wood soles were hitting a smooth concrete surface as
    I could tell.  With an intake of air I heard a familiar voice, "You
    finally getting up, are you Markus."
        I covered my eyes and squinted up to see the king covered in sweat
    and wearing a light leather jacket.  He seemed to have taken a nasty
    cut on the right forearm, since a thick salve was leaking out from
    under bandages over the limb.  He grinned down at me and said, "You
    been out for 2 days solid, but I can't blame you.  When you pulled the
    bridge away from that fire, who knows how many lives you saved in
    Excavon form that massive fire."
        Try to speak he stopped me in my first word and continued, "You be
    silent while I tell you the story..., or aren't you going to obey your
    lord?", we both laughed with him carrying what I couldn't handle,
    "After the people got hold of what you did to the archers down on the
    ledge, the firebombs you through under fire, and how you lifted the
    drawbridge all by yourself without any mechanical assistance, it was
    out of anyone's hands.  The priest said that you are God's own little
    knight with 'divine enlightenment' as they call it.  Most of the people
    accepts that, but despite all the other theories, you are the new hero
    of Excavon."
        I slowly asked, "Where am I?"
        He looked around and dug for some words to describe this situation,
    "Uh..., well, this is that room that you stayed in before.  It over
    looks the land below the palace, remember?  Well we couldn't find
    anything fitting your position on short notice, but this.  So I'm
    chopping chopping down a few of the trees, and removing the dirt beds,
    for better furniture.  It will be done in about a week."
        That was strange, "Why aren't your loyal servants doing the work?
    They go union on you?", I asked.
        He looked down with an expression that symbolized how it had just
    gotten tougher to find words to describe the present circumstances, "A
    small group of them had been members of the invaders following.  They
    had told him the exact time for a optimum attack, and when it came they
    started to kill the other servants who would have protected the palace.
    In the end I ended up having 95% of my house staff to die.  Plus a good
    portion of the palace is being used as a hospital for the severely
    injured.  While the doctors are down there looking out for the normal,
    they left you for dead in your self induced coma.  They would never
    understand how you heal anyway."
        "I was out for 2 days?", I asked in some surprise.
        "Of course you suffered mild smoke inhalation, minor burns on your
    arms and face, and three arrows got you at some point in time.  Now you
    understand why they thought you would die?", he was almost shouting as
    he said it.
        The warrior had a self healing 'function' one might call it.  With
    all the other genetic wonders built into a body like mine or the king's
    is a form of program in our mind that allows for optimum healing.  It
    starts when excessive physical damage has occurred and bed rest would
    otherwise be needed.  As soon as physical exertion is ended a sleep, or
    coma, takes over the body.  The sleep uses up almost all the body's fat
    in a greatly increased metabolic rate.  Then when the body starts to
    get to a minimum safe fat level, and sometimes slightly below, the
    person wakes up to refill his system with the needed nutrients.  I was
    now at this stage of the healing.
        Sitting up I found a table filled with freshly prepared foods.
    Looking down at the shirt that had been stretched across my ribs, I
    noticed how much my ribs showed under the fine silk like fabric.  With
    some aid I managed to walk over to the table and proceed to gorge the
    food sitting on the table.  My system, still partially on the greatly
    increased metabolic rate, kept renewing my hunger as I ate.  While I
    sat at the table I also consumed large amounts of salt and followed it
    with close to a gallon and a half of water.  After I felt satisfied and
    my metabolic rate had averaged out again, I got up to survey the work
    down to the ex-garden.
        The King had continued with is work as I ate ravenously.  He came
    over and sat his tired body down on one of the old garden stools across
    from me.  When he looked settled I asked, "Who was it that attacked
    us?"
        "A religious fanatic who calls himself Randolf the superior.  I
    think he got a hold of some old books on Hitler and started to get some
    warped ideas.  He started out without a country, and he built up a
    small falling that has massed an army and overthrown a few of the
    smaller countries.", he said with a sigh.
        "Hitler had a racial scape goat though.  What is he using as a
    lever on the people?", I asked.
        "Something about the weak must die, and as he puts it since we live
    in a mountain we must be weak to hide.  I just happen to be the only
    large ruler that he could think of an excuses to attack.  He has under
    siege right now, but I think that he won't wait the 5 months that we
    are prepared for here.  It was pretty stupid to attack us right after
    the harvest season.", he told me almost as if it didn't matter.
        "One more question before I go back to sleep.  How did the ropes
    get tied onto the ledge out there?", I asked with a yawn coming
    mid-statement.
        "Remember that reading material I gave you?  The wizards that it
    told about are real I guess.  Before it was all rumors and hear say
    about the other guy, but those ropes were put up there and tied by one
    of these wizards.", he was shaking his head in disbelief, but he did
    believe in the end.  With that note I slipped back into my restful high
    speed sleep.

                                  *    *    *

        After a few days the king had finished the room off.  To one side
    was a fountain of cool water, and a small walled off spring bathe on
    the other.  It had a large wooden table in the center with benches on
    the long sides and two large chairs at each end.  Looking out across
    the scenic view were two large plush reading chairs and a bed to one
    side.  Next to one wall was an array of bookshelves filled with books.
    To top it off he had some of the finest glass available at the time put
    in the open wall.
        When he had finished the room he also announced my premature
    recovery as we agreed on.  I had been up for a day helping him with the
    finishing touches, but the people would never believe that I had healed
    to this point, so I would have a fake limp on my wounded leg for a
    couple weeks.  Right before I left the room for a public appearance the
    King brought me a crutch to use the first couple days.  When it had
    been four days after the battle I stumbled out of my room on an old
    wooden crutch.
        I first visited the makeshift hospital that had been set up in the
    hall.  Many of the people in here had never seen me before, so I wasn't
    expecting them to react like they did.  I entered the room in my
    dress-up armour and as I rounded the entrance someone shouted, "It's
    lord Furate the bear."
        With the simple utterance everyone who could stand did and many who
    couldn't tried.  Seeing this I quickly said, "No, please continue with
    what you were doing.  Please you don't have to do this."  I kept
    looking around at the praise that everyone was trying to give me.
        The King leaned back and turned his head to tell me in English, "I
    told you that they thought you were a gift from God himself.  Just stay
    modest and they won't loss respect."  He started to move on to greet
    the men who had been injured during the invasion.  I remained in the
    door way and surveyed the seen.  Laying around the hall were about
    thirty men who had been severely wounded.  A few had lost a limb, while
    most others where suffering from infections caused by other wounds.
    Even in this uncivilized world of medicine, they seemed to have a herb
    that was made into a salve to prevent and treat infection.  Could it be
    that they had found a plant that produces antibiotics naturally?  It
    didn't matter know just as long as it was available.  I proceeded to
    see my public.
        I walked past a few beds with a small greeting that cheered up most
    of the patients.  Halfway down the row I got to one bed that a doctor
    was lingering over with an unconscious adolescent in it.  The doctor
    was feeling the youths wrist and nodding his head.  Then as he let the
    arm back down and started to bring the sheet up I approached quickly.
    Forgetting my limp and dropping the crutch I knelt over the boy and
    felt at his neck for a pulse.  I felt none, but his body was still very
    warm.  I knew that action must be taken quickly.
        Collapsing the low cot legs below him I lowered him to the ground
    gently.  From here I knelt over him and started standard CPR.  It had
    been ingrained into us as warriors since age eight, and it had become
    instinct under circumstances.  I could here the voices and shuffling
    feet as I started to breath life into the youth's frame.  Coming up to
    start the chest pumping procedure I looked around to find the King
    pushing through the crowd.  He was distressed from the look on his
    face.  Kneeling down on the opposite side of me he grabbed my wrist and
    said in low whispering english, "This is a low tech world, remember?"
        Pulling my wrist back to myself, with a gasp of shock from the
    crowd I said back, "To hell with those codes.  What are they going to
    do kill me, or you can do it after I try to save this kids life."  I
    quickly went back for two quick breaths.  When I came back up for the
    chest compressions the King was getting ready to assist in the two man
    form.  After two minutes of doing this a pulse finally emerged from the
    battered body.  The King got up and started to push people back as I
    watched him and piled blankets on top of him.
        During the hour that I watched him as he regained a normal pulse I
    talked to the doctor.  He happened to be the King's personal physician,
    Huronen, one of the few in the area.  As I talked to him over the
    course of the hour I found him to a fairly bright man, but greatly
    uneducated.  From what he described to me I surmised that the youth had
    gone into shock and finally heart failure after lack of appropriate
    treatment.  If I hadn't come along the young man would have be in a
    hole right about now.  As we talked he became greatly interested in the
    method of breathing life as he called it.  Not knowing what to say I
    skirted the question.
        The young man had supposedly been one of the servants that didn't
    rebel.  When he saw what the rebellious ones had done, he took down one
    of the ornamental axes on the wall and defended the passage to the rest
    of the palace until the guards could get there.  From the looks of him
    he had been cut up pretty bad by the time the guards got there, but he
    refused to quit.  Huronen said that the king was thinking about making
    him a squire and let him train into a knight.  Considering what little
    I know of him, he would make an excellent knight.
        Later when the King came by I made a point of asking about the
    matter.  He said, "Yes, of course I will.  Didn't I do the same for
    you?"
        "Why don't you make him a knight then?", I questioned.
        "Oh, come now Markus.  He may have a lot of courage and spunk, but
    he obviously doesn't know anything about weapons besides that they are
    sharp.  He needs training first, which you didn't.  So I make him a
    squire and he works his way up the ladder like the rest of the people
    around here.", he said.
        "Well I think that I might want a squire then.  You know to pass a
    portion of my skill to.  There isn't a waiting list or anything is
    there?", I stated.
        "Don't worry I had already pegged you for a little follower.", he
    said with a small chuckle to top it off.

                                  *    *    *



Enter selection or <return> for menu: 7

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]

                                  *    *    *

        "Compton come here.  It's about time you started to learn how to
    fight.", I said.
        Compton, the boy I had saved, had been out of bed for about three
    weeks now.  During that time I had built him up from a slight
    convalescent, to a strong youth.  As I watched him I noticed he had had
    a fairly good build, and a hint of above average dexterity.  With my
    training I suspected that he would become one of the King's most
    effective warrior.
        He looked up from the task of chopping wood which I had set him to.
    Then understanding the importance of the statement he ran across the
    ledge garden we now occupied.  Compton stood about 180cm tall and
    massed out at a rough 80 kilograms of weight, not a bad sized youth for
    his age of 15.
        Standing in front of me he was smiling looking around.  Then when
    he couldn't find what he was looking for a look of surprise came over
    his face.  He asked with a strong sound of disappointment, "Lord, if I
    am to learn how to fight where are the weapons?"
        "Weapons?", I laughed, "You aren't ready for them yet.  First you
    must learn Open handed fighting, weaponless fighting , or you may call
    it karate.  Then when you are ready you may pick up a weapon."
        "Sir, how may one fight without weapons?", he asked still in
    surprise.
        I had seen this coming when I had heard that squires were normally
    fully trained in 6 months.  What inepts they must be until experience
    hardens them.  I was prepared to defend my point to my squire.
        "Here if you think you need a weapon to fight take this.", I handed
    him a nice long and finely made hunting knife I had picked up in the
    armory.
        He looked down at the blade then looked back up and said, "What am
    I supposed to do with it sir?"
        "Try to kill me."
        "I couldn't..."
        "You will.  Right you little traitor.  What are you going to become
    the first knight to hide behind his mother's dress?  Come on try for
    it."  He was seriously considering it right about now, but common sense
    and honor held him back.
        "Come on,or maybe I'll teach you to use the broom in the cellar for
    the rest of your life.", I taunted.  From what I have learned these are
    some of the cleaner dishonoring statements around.  They seemed to be
    working well enough when he tried to swing the knife across my chest.
    Seeing my cue I jumped up and kicked him lightly in the nose, and I
    made sure he knew it was light.  Then landing I got a hold of the now
    moving knife hand, and twisted to bring him over my hip in a violent
    fall to the grassy mat below.
        "Sorry about the comments, I didn't mean any of them.  I just
    wanted to show you how much more effective my way is to those your
    friends are learning.  Do you see a difference?", I said while kneeling
    over his prone body.
        He nodded acknowledgement and asked, "Will you really teach me how
    to do that?"
        "That and very much more.  When I get done with you that you will
    be the third best fighter on this world.", I reassured him as I let him
    go and sat cross legged next to him.
        "How long will it take for me to master all this?", he asked as he
    sat up.
        I laughed and said, "You'll be learning until you die, and maybe
    beyond."
        "I don't understand all of this, and I don't think I'll try to.
    What do I learn first?", He said with a rather large sigh.
        It was noon when I began to teach him the three basic stances.  By
    the time I was satisfied it was well past supper time.  For now he was
    confused about how that could help him in combat, but I reassured him
    any times that he was doing good and that some day he would see the
    point of all this.  We both went inside for dinner well after sunset.

                                  *    *    *

        As the months passed Compton progressed extremely well.  In fact
    his studies went so well that he quickly achieved and went beyond my
    expectations.  In the first few weeks the training brought out a large
    untapped reservoir of dexterous ability.  Even though he rarely
    comprehended his full lesson, Compton continued to practice with
    diligence.
        On the sixth month of his training I decided to show him the value
    of his knowledge.  Another knight, Kohman of the sword, had some
    squires and three of them had been in training just as long as Compton.
    In fact at the minor ceremony that was held for them the King had
    openly invited the youths to compete for the knighthood in two years.
    Kohman, who had taken the three into training because of their
    ancestry, and I agreed on the terms, and he still thinks that his boys
    are ahead.
        Kohman and his following entered the terrace garden that my room
    opened up to with a slight sneer.  He had been one of the senior
    knights and still felt that I shouldn't be getting this kind of
    luxuries.  He didn't push the point to much, because he knew I was now
    the King's right hand man, and the people's favorite.  While Compton
    practiced his lesson I was normally out in the market helping the worse
    off, so my popularity just didn't die out, but it leveled of at a mild
    fanaticism.  Kohman made his men sit down near the entrance, while he
    approached me.
        "Sir Furate, is your student ready?", the word student stuck in his
    mouth with some contempt.
        "Yes I guess so.  Just bring out your best of the three.  It's a
    full contact match without sharpened weapons.  They do now the rules
    don't they?", I said looking at them.
        He nodded going back to his squires to tell them what was going to
    happen.  I had no need for that or any coaching.  Compton knew the
    stupid rules and he could defend himself without any of my false
    barriers of words to hide behind.  I signaled for him to come forward.
    He ran to stand in front of me, looking rather shamed wearing the
    simple canvas suit I had made for him compared to the nice leather
    armour his peers wore.  I reassured him by saying, "The way you look
    doesn't win a fight, and armour definitely looses it."  He looked at
    me, paused a second, and nodded releasing a large gasp of air and
    shaking his joints out.
        Kohman had picked the largest of his students, or should I say
    ex-students since they finished their training early last week.  Thats
    if you could call what they learn training.  Kohman's champion was a
    little taller then I, and had an average build.  He wore a finely
    tailored leather jacket, and he carried a short sword at his side.  I
    removed the sword from his belt with minimal protest and gave him a
    wooden sword of about the same length and heft.  I bowed to both of
    them as this ceremony called for, but only got a response from Compton.
    I then had compton turn to his opponent and bow to the ignorant fool
    anyway.  From here I gave them the signal to begin.
        Compton stood his ground as the aggressor charged onto him with the
    sword raised high over his head.  When they were about a meter away
    from each other Compton acted with swiftness.  Stepping to his
    advisories sword hand side he kicked him in the ribs.  Kohman was in a
    shock as he watched his student double over in the pain of a broken
    rib.  I walked over to the hunched shell of a boy and pulled the armour
    away from his chest.  It was obvious that he had two maybe three ribs
    fractured.  Luckily for him the doctors here do know how to set bones
    fairly well without internal scans, like x-rays.
        I stood up from the crying youth and looked at Kohman.  He was half
    puzzled, half confused over the event.  I just looked back, shrugged,
    and said, "Guess he needed some more, or BETTER training."  That
    statement brought Kohman's hand to his ornately made sword, and almost
    sprung the sword from the sheath.  As he contemplated taking my head
    off shook my head and said, "Know would that be very wise on your part.
    Oh yeah. he has three fractured ribs and you better get him to one of
    the doctors."
        He had some his other boys come over and pick up the wounded one to
    carry him away.  As they started up the ramp Kohman came to me and said
    in a huff, "I will never forget this disgrace ever, Furate."  With that
    he turned on his heals and promptly trotted out.  As he left I followed
    him by saying at a yell this word of serious advice, "Hope not only you
    do, but also your students."

                                  *    *    *

Enter selection or <return> for menu: 8

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]

                                  *    *    *

      A week after the sparing match all of those under Kohman's training and
  command started normal duty.  When a squire finishes training he either
  becomes a knight's aid or he takes up duty as a guard in the ready army as
  it is called.  In fact there are only 4 official ranks in this society
  being, civilian, squire (or regular soldier), knight, and king.  Of course
  there small nonofficial ranks at each of the lower levels, but they are of
  no matter to me.
      I had a little trouble with Compton wanting to finish off his training
  and start regular duty.  He kept telling me that the others were ridiculing
  him about, and he was having trouble just ignoring it.  So to stop all the
  trouble and get him off me, I made him my aid as was an appropriate
  position for him.  After that I luckily heard no more on that subject.
      Around the tenth month of Compton's training I was spending much time
  with the common folk in and outside of the walls.  When someone needed
  something built, fixed, or anything else they just couldn't do, I would
  step in and take control of the situation.  As my popularity and notoriety
  expanded across the local countryside I found the request for my help to be
  overwhelming.  At the end of the first year I took my meager pay started a
  help fund for the people, so that I can slow down and take some time for
  myself.
      Also in the tenth month I started to teach Compton about weapons.  When
  he heard about this he excitedly asked, "What type of sword will I learn to
  use?"
      "All of them one day, but for now you will learn about the
  quarter-staff.  I even picked one out for you in the storerooms.  Of course
  if you want a good one you will have to make your own, so I brought you
  this nice thick dow too.", I said handing him the old stick he would learn
  on and the rough dow he would use later.
      He took them gladly with no complaint.  I guess he finally wised up and
  realized that I wouldn't let him use the sword right away.  I stood there
  waiting for the line I knew was coming next.
      "Lord, what may I use to widle it down to proper size?", he asked.
      Reaching into one of the pouches I hang at my belt I found what I was
  looking for, and pulled it out.  "Will this do?", I asked as I handed him
  the finally made plain handle of a dagger.  He took it carefully and looked
  at the blade.  The blade had a mirrored surface and a good edge.  I had
  picked it out looking for an edge that was sharp, but wouldn't need
  excessive sharpening after things like shaving wood.  He took this
  gracefully tucking it into his belt.  Bowing very deeply he got up and ran
  for the little cubicle which makes up his room.  It all reminded me of an
  old saying, 'Patients makes everything better."
      Compton would take anything he learned about the weapons I allowed him,
  and he would practice until he dropped of exhaustion.  More then once did I
  find him asleep on the lawn of my garden terrace.  Within three months I
  felt that he had mastered the knife, and staff to a point where he could be
  allowed to carry them on his body.
      At that time I introduced him to the family of simple projectile
  weapons.  These simplistic ballistics were shunned by most knights as
  unworthy weapons, and they left their use to the lower squires who weren't
  appointed for training, but joined as enlisted men.  Even though their
  title was of squire, they had none of there rights, and actually fell under
  the direct command of the squires.  The more I stayed in this system the
  more it seems to differ from that of ancient Earth.
      When I showed Compton how to use the bow, spear, and javelin he
  exhibited some past experience.  As he later told me he had been raised on
  a farm and had been taught to hunt his own game with the spear, bow, and
  javelin.  In fact this new development helped to move my schedule up by a
  clear two months and onto the final and most effective of weapons, the
  swords.
      Before I introduced him to the sword I had had one made.  It was a
  sword made partially in the fashion of the Samauri's swords.  It was a
  little longer measuring 80cm on the edge, but the quality and balance of
  the blade was excellent for this area's general quality.  In fact to make
  this blade with the local talent it had cost me more then I could afford,
  but in the pinch the King had payed the difference understanding why I had
  wanted the sword.  In the end I decided to give it to Compton as a form of
  graduation present.
      To finish off my days after the work and teaching was done over the
  months, I studied the scrolls and books that I could work out of the royal
  sages.  With my further study I became almost entranced with the local
  legends and tales of wizards.  Some of them were outrageous lies that I
  know couldn't happen, at least not in this universe.  While I continued to
  read I found a passing mention of documented cases of magic that seemed
  very authentic and down to Earth.  Even though some of the things done
  couldn't be explained they had a sense of truth to them.  Finding these
  small passages became one of my afterhours obsessions.
      Finally, after a year and a half of training I felt my student was
  ready to use his knowledge.  He had eagerly studied the different swords
  with a diligence I have never seen.  I felt that the promise I had made him
  on his first day of training of being one of this world's best fighters
  just might come true very soon.  It was time for both of us to move onto
  bigger things.
      I decided that we would go out exploring the various countryside, and
  maybe track down one of these wizards to boot.  When I told my student
  about the idea he was so excited that I didn't even have time to tell him
  about the finding of a wizard before he started to make plans and prepare.
  Then after he finally heard the later part of what I said a cold chill took
  over his body and he sat down hard on his cubicles bunk.
      "What's wrong Compton?", I asked still excited about the idea.
      "Nothing except the maybe part about witches.", he replied with a
  scared tone to his voice, "Those people, if you can call them that, are
  mean and evil.  You want no part of them Lord, never.  They can summon
  demons, and wrench your insides apart with one hand, and who knows what
  they can do with the other."
      "I seriously doubt they can summon demons, and that they are that
  powerful.  I just think they happen to be people borne with...", I trailed
  off realizing only one other person even knows what psionics, or PK means
  on this world, so I was forced to rephrase it, "excessive brain power, and
  they can manipulate things with this excess power.  Like how I showed you
  to meditate, well they use that clear mind as focus for their powers, or so
  I believe.  I thought that maybe your teacher might be able to learn a few
  more tricks in his youth."
      That ended the discussion and severely dampened Compton's spirits.  I
  couldn't blame him for being born and raised in a primitive culture.  All I
  could do was educate him some so he wasn't as dumb as the rest, which had
  also been going well.  As I prepared for the trip I took a roll of paper to
  start teaching Compton beyond the meager amount of math he knew.  I also
  packed weapons for my own usage, consisting of my sword, a bow, a quiver of
  a hundred arrows, three throwing knives, and a quarter staff.  I took only
  the leather armour with me ignoring the protocol that dictated that I must
  wear more formal wear.
      The day before we left I found Compton packing.  Entering the room I
  came up next to him and examined the contents of the bags.  It seemed that
  he was bringing along large amounts of food and clothes.  I searched his
  bags some more and didn't come up with anything else.  I turned to face him
  and asked, "Where are your weapons, young squire?"
      He pointed over to the corner where the old second hand practice junk
  laid.  In the middle of the pile was the only true weapon in here, a
  quarter staff.  He had taken that dow and had worked on it many hours while
  I did my studies.  It made me wonder if the boy slept at all.  I looked
  back at him and said, "I think you might want this over all those."  I then
  pulled out the sword I had had made for him and laid it out across my arm
  with the handle facing him.  He slowly reached out for the leather covered
  hilt, but hesitated as his hand approached the grip.  Looking up at me I
  just nodded showing my approval.  He took the sword and backed off a step
  to test it's balance.  With his appraisal of the blade and joy he faced me
  and bowed in honor.  I returned it and said, "We really don't need any of
  that you know.", pointing at the pile of clothes and food.
      I left him to finish his packing and worship his new bauble till
  morning.  For now I would have to talk to the King about the local
  geography and what the maps said.

                                  *    *    *

Enter selection or <return> for menu: 9

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]

                                  *    *    *

      As the sun crept slowly into my bedroom I rose from my slumber.  That
  would be one of the last nights in a while that I would sleep in a nice
  bed, if in a bed at all.  The surrounding countryside provided little in
  the way of small towns or roadside inns.  In anticipation of that I had
  brought a water proofed canvas tent.  In fact I hoped that my short time
  spent on planning works out properly.
      Getting out of bed I found my attire.  Putting on my shirt and trousers
  I made sure that they fit tight over my body.  Then I started to strap the
  leather armor on over it.  If my clothes had been loose or wrinkled in any
  place, the tight armor would have made it very uncomfortable at days end.
  The sun had filled the majority of my room with it's warming rays when I
  tightened and buckled the last strap of the armor.  Then taking my sword
  down I slung it onto my back to finish my final preparations.  Everything
  else had been put on the horse last night by some unknown stable hand.
      When I reached for the handle of my door to leave I thought I heard a
  muffled scream from the terrace just below my window.  Turning around to
  look I was mostly blinded by the now morning sun, but could make out
  hunched over moving shapes in the garden below.  I jumped back up against
  the wall next to the door to that terrace.  They must have scaled the walls
  like before during the night, because I'm the only one that had a door to
  that garden, except the little secret door that used to belong to the
  Gardener's room, but that cubicle was now Compton's.
      I sneaked a peak out the window knowing that the glare from the sun
  would block there view at this time of day.  I vaguely made out four
  figures coming up the ramp right now, and roughly 15 on the terrace with
  even more still coming over the wall.  I quickly estimated the pace of the
  four approaching me, and drew my sword silently to wait for the attack.
      Just outside the door I could here them.  They were dressed in a heavy
  chainmail by the sound they made coming up the ramp.   When I saw the door
  knob move from one of them testing it, I acted.  I took two steps and then
  kicked the door out onto them while yelling at the top of my lungs.  The
  first two were knocked over the side of the ramp to land in a throne bush
  5m down.  The last two were carrying crossbows, probably to fire when the
  door was opened.  One had his cord pulled, but lacked the bolt yet.  While
  the other one was still in the process of stringing his.  I swung my sword
  in the early morning light with a flash in their dyeing eyes as I
  decapitated the first and dropped it to navel level to skewer the second on
  the point a half-second later.  When I pulled the blade clear of the second
  it made a sickening slurping sound from the suction of flesh and blood.
      Looking down the ramp I saw about 20 men running up the ramp to kill
  me.  I quickly jumped up high in the air and flipped down near the edge of
  the ledge.  I had landed with men on either side of me.  Picking the side
  with fewer opponents I plowed into the shocked four standing to my right
  before they could respond.  Within seconds I had dispatched another group
  of invaders with this fine blade.  Listening behind me I timed the last
  sword thrust on my now vanquished enemy.  Then I took a step backwards and
  flipped in the same direction.  Twisting in the air I landed facing the
  backstabbers which where to kill me less then a second ago.  As they turned
  to face me I swept in and immobilized all seven with a combination kicks
  and slashes that were now controlled by instinct alone.
      When the seven were laying on the ground useless I started to cut the
  numerous ropes tied and bound to the wall.  Many of them were pulled taught
  with body wait on the other side somewhere, and more then once did I here
  the scream of a man falling to his death.  While I ran across the edge
  mincing up rope ladders I looked down at the other ledges where the
  invaders had consolidated their power.  From the looks of it the invaders
  outnumbered our whole force, including every able body, by three to one.  I
  quickly surmised that this was the day that Excavon fell to an invading
  horde.
      Turning from the wall I found that the group on the ramp was rapidly
  closing on my position.  These people weren't inept archers that were
  attacking irrationally.  No, these were twenty trained warriors that still
  had a hold on all rational thought.  In other words this might also be the
  fall of Markus Furate, but as I charged into their midst I doubted.
      I had lobbed off one's arm in the beginning of the charge, and run the
  sword through another as I continued through the crowd.  Only one of them
  even landed a glancing blow to the back of my calf.  I was lucky not to be
  hamstringed.  I was now in a corner with a wall behind me and a knee high
  hedge in front.  Still on my sword right now was the one invader I had last
  ran into.  I dropped him off the blade and picked up his dyeing body and
  threw at the on rushing attackers.  When he hit the first row it created a
  domino effect which knocked over all but two of the remaining 18 warriors.
  I picked the one that was closest to me and broke his neck with a flying
  kick.  I then landed and swiftly turned to the next attacker who was
  running across his downed fellows without realizing it.  I stepped to one
  side, and spinning back around on my right foot I brought the sword into
  his midsection cleanly dividing his body into two.
      I finished the rest of the work swiftly by killing those still on the
  ground before they could recover their feet.  Within a minute or so I had
  secured this terrace from the oncoming wave of invaders.  In my safe
  position I quickly scanned the other terraces condition.  Out of the five
  other remaining ledges, four others were totally under invader control.  I
  might of tried to help down on them, but our forces are outnumbered clearly
  10 to 1 or more.  It was just suicide under a wave of steal to put yourself
  in that type situation.  The fifth ledge was that of the Kings it was
  directly above mine by about 50meters.  I imagined that he was still safe
  from the outside, but might be having problems from within.
      Then I remembered Compton.  I quickly ran to where the secret door to
  his room lay.  Listening to it I could here the sound of splintering wood.
  Opening the door I found Compton holding a pile of furniture up to his door
  while a ramming sound came from outside.  I touched compton on the shoulder
  and signaled for him to get out.  As he gathered his stuff I pushed on the
  pile he had made, and braced myself against the closest wall.  With one
  great push I forced the door past it's frame to become caught in the stone
  block that surrounded the door.  It would take them an hour to remove the
  door from that position.
      Taking Compton by the arm I lead him right out to the terrace.  From
  here I was stumped on how we were going to escape.  I went over to the wall
  to see if there might be any ropes left, but I had done such a good job
  that they all now reside 400m below, or more.  Then Compton comes up behind
  me and says, "What are you doing?  We should be trying to push back the
  invaders not running.  It isn't the noble thing to do.", he continued as I
  took the rope that was sticking out of his pack, "Sir we can't run we would
  loose face.  We have to force the invaders back."  He started to grab for
  the rope.
      I turned to face him and plucked his hand away and twisted in a hold he
  hadn't learned yet.  Taking his jaw I made him look at the amount of people
  present on the other ledges.  Then twisting his wrist even more I said in
  fury, "Force back the invaders, save face, defend the King?  It's
  impossible.  They outnumber us right now by at least 10 to 1, and thats
  including all the little women and children.  I might be able to take on
  ten or maybe even twenty, but no one else here can even safely contemplate
  it.  Excavon is going to die today, for who the hell knows how many are
  attacking the other side."
      "I thought you served the King?", he said with a sneer of hatred.
      "Look around you.  These were the shock troops who were going to jump
  up to that level and kill him.  I gave him time to awaken and prepare his
  guards.  Now if you don't mind I'm going to save your life a second time.",
  turning back to the wall to tie the rope onto.  When I was sure it was
  secure I dropped the rest over the end to see how far it came down to.  It
  perfectly reached the level of the next sub-terrace down.  I ushered
  Compton down the rope and then climbed down myself.  The landing had also
  been a point of entry for a smaller force, so as I predicted a longer rope
  fell over the side to the bottom of the cliff off into the woods.  We
  hastily went over the edge of the small ledge before anyone saw us.
      At the bottom we found a freshly worn dirt trail leading into the
  woods.  Looking ahead of us I could see the dying campfires just shortly
  into the woods.  How come the night sentries didn't see them and report it.
  Then I thought of the last time any ropes were tied to the terrace walls.
  It had been done by some of the wizards they had said.  Could these wizards
  also hide a large camp and it's fires?
      Then behind us in the other direction I heard a breaking twig.  Turning
  I threw the sword into the source of the sound.  Then I saw it was one of
  their guards that had been waiting in ambush, and now he had a sword
  through his breastplate and breast.  Putting my foot on him I removed him
  and my sword from the tree behind him.
      Compton had now drawn his blade and started to advance down the trail.
  I caught up to him and let him bring up the rear.  In the camp we saw a
  multitude of tents.  There were people sitting around it in robes and rough
  country wear.  Most of them seemed to be sleeping in heavy tiredness, but
  some seemed to be concentrating on something.  I whispered to Compton,
  "These are your wizards."
      I then walked out in to the open knowing that they lay undeffended and
  helpless.  They must have thought that all the people would be caught in
  Excavon.  I slowly approached them just to make sure there isn't any other
  guards ready to ambush us.  As I waved Compton forward I ran into what felt
  like a brick wall.  Looking to see what it was when I found nothing.  I put
  my fist out to find that there was an invisible barrier between us and our
  prey.
      I started to examine this natural oddity.  It was rather hot to the
  touch, it was definitely invisible, and it was most likely created by the
  wizards.  No wonder they were left unguarded, because they had the ultimate
  defense, a force field.  Well I would have to get these people at some
  later date.  For now I just think I better get out of here before someone
  notices us.
      We found a large group of horses in an array of large tents.  We both
  took our pick from the line-up, and selected appropriate gear.  I had never
  ridden a horse before, so it was time for the teacher to become the
  student.  Compton showed me the basics of controlling the horse, and told
  me that I would get the feel for the horse the more I rode.  I sure hope
  so, because I don't feel to confident about driving this thing right now.

                                  *    *    *

Enter selection or <return> for menu: 10

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]

      Riding for that day and the night following, we put a respectable
  distance between us and Randolf the superior's forces.  Of course we
  couldn't be sure it was him, but neither of us doubted it at the least.  As
  we rode silently I knew that not only I, but also Compton thought of
  revenge on this megalomaniac.
      The morning after the exodus we took a break to rest, and discuss our
  options.  We both agreed on one thing that it was futile to go back to
  Excavon.  The scene of the terrace I think finely had sunk into this youth,
  for now he was dead set against going back.  A wise step in maturing if you
  ask me.  To continue in the conversation I said, "What about Gured about 30
  kilometers east of here?"
      Compton who had known much more geography then I shook his head and
  said, "Rumor has it that they are allies of Randolf now.  They were pretty
  small to start with anyway."
      "What would you suggest then?", I asked.
      "Well we could cross the Dannth river about 60 kilometers to the North
  and then a trail comes straight up to the fjord.  The trail will lead us
  through the Huren Forest.  On the other side of the forest is a rich
  farmland under the rule of King Julik.  Our lord was once a good friend of
  his father, but since then I know of no relationship between the two
  factions.", he said much like one of my mentors back in the Old Society.
      "I told you all that studying would come in handy some day.  Knowledge
  is the only true power, and you better remember that.", I said with a small
  smile emerging from both of us.  I knew too little about the local
  situation to trust our lives to my judgement.  We would have to go by his
  memory alone now.
      As he was about to get up and tend to the horses, I grabbed his arm and
  pulled him back down to a sitting position.  Then waving a finger at him I
  said, "Where did you think you were going?"
      Studdering a bit in bewilderment he said, "Just to check the mounts."
      "Well it's time for another lesson.", I sayed trying to find a stick.
      "Should I get my sword?", he asked.
      Laughing I said, "Not that kind of lesson.  You have to master what you
  already know before you can learn anymore.  What I want to teach you now is
  math."
      "I already know how to count and add and take away.", he retorted.
      "That stuff is only a small fraction of math, and while we are on the
  topic what is a fraction?"
      He obviously didn't know.  All I could get out of him that was right
  was that a fraction was a part.  Then I showed him how he had been using
  them before, like with one half, one third.  That day, when he wasn't busy,
  I showed him simply what they were, since he couldn't do to much to them
  without knowing division.  To go any further he would have to memorize his
  multiplication tables, which should prove more a challenge then any of his
  other training.
      We spent the rest of the day there and that night to rest the horses.
  That morning we saddled up and started on our way to the Dannth river.  It
  took only about 2 and a half hours to get to the bank of the river.
  Compton started to tell me about it, "The river is about 40m across on the
  average, but about 2 kilometers down river we should find a fairly shallow
  part that can easily be crossed."
      I signaled for Compton to take the lead which he generously did, and
  then making sure no one was following us I silently turned to be taken to
  safety by my new guide.  The shore side trail had once been wide and well
  worn, but now it was little more then a tiny foot path being washed out and
  overgrown every now and then.  The scene swiftly changed into an open field
  on both sides of the river.  Looking at the water one could see the
  shallows that he had mentioned.  To accommodate for the shallowness it
  seems that the river diverts some of it's water into the forest while
  expanding it's width to handle the excess flow.  Across the river just
  beyond the other clearing was a barely visible cobblestone road leading
  into the thick Huren forest.
      We got off our mounts and began to walk them across the rocky river
  bottom.  Half-way across a cold wave came over me.  I dived to the stream
  bed and said, "Get down.", as an arrow flew through where my chest might
  have been, and into my horse.  Compton was behind his horse by now, using
  the mount as a shield.  I signaled for him to let the horse go, and follow
  me.  He took his staff and sword as I advanced at a hurtling run towards
  the target.
      In a second I was out of the river and on the bank still in motion.
  When the arrow had hit the horse I had calculated the area in which it had
  come from, and now I had spotted the culprit in that general area.  Picking
  up my speed, which was already beyond that of a normal human, I closed the
  distance dodging two arrows.  When I had reached the edge of the brush I
  jumped into a high speed flying kick.  A split second later I had broken
  and torn apart the neck of the archer.  Landing on the dead body I drew my
  sword and scanned the area for further enemies.
      It was soon obvious that we were again alone and safe, so I started to
  examine what little information was left.  The archer had on a uniform,
  which was soaked with blood at this point, but after I looked at it for a
  while I recognized in shock and horror.  It was the official enlisted men's
  uniform of Excavon.  This man should have died in the raid just the other
  morning, but yet he had survived too true for my life.  Why did he try to
  kill me?  Was I considered a traitor now?
      Compton had just arrived and the type of uniform hadn't sunk in yet for
  him, but soon he was in utter shock saying, "Why would he try to kill y...
  How the hell did he get here?"
      Not knowing the answers I shrugged with a look of bewilderment adding
  to my expression.  Then looking up from the body I saw the trail he had
  left through the heavy underbrush.  It was still flat where he had stepped,
  and if one looked close they could see the machete marks that he had left.
  I got up, signaling for Compton to follow, as I went down the new trail
  cautiously.  He had used the machete more freely the more we advanced.  By
  now the trail was almost literally cleared for us to pass through.
      About half a mile in I stopped to listen, and heard a faint voice not
  to far off.  Approaching closer I heard the activities of a military camp.
  Then I came to the outside perimeter of the of the camp and hide in the
  brush.  Looking out onto the scene I started to access their strength.  The
  camp consisted of ten small troop tents, and a larger knights tent.  That
  meant they had a full force of no more then 30 men, since each troop tent
  holds three men.
      Right now there only appeared to be 4 men sitting around the camp.  I
  started to listen to their conversation, "When do we get to eat lunch?"
      "I told you that just twenty minutes ago, you moron.  We have to wait
  until later tonight when the patrols come back in."
      "I sure hope we don't find this Furate guy.  I saw what he had done by
  himself on that ledge of his.  Kohman is probably right about him being a
  demon working for the devil.  It's the only way things like that can
  happen."
      The other said, "Watch what you say.  He's just in the other tent, and
  you know what he did to the last person who didn't address him by king."
  There was a definite chill of fear on his voice.
      Shrugging the first said, "He's asleep anyway, but that Furate guy he
  actually threw a corpse at a squad of men and knocked them over.  It was
  unreal, devilish, pure evil."
      "I think he was just in with Randolf, and those were our guards in some
  of Randolf's old uniforms.  Just a plot to get the men disorganized into
  following him instead of King Kohman, after the King died.", the other said
  bowing his head.
      Kohman had taken over the leadership in my absence and the King's
  death.  How had he beat off the invaders with a disorganized, small,
  scattered fighting force.  It would have been impossible for anyone, even I
  with my strength and training could not achieve such a feat.  There was
  only one solution in mind to this problem, but I had no evidence to back up
  the argument.
      Looking back I saw Compton right behind me with his sword drawn.
  Giving him some simple hand signals I told him to wait for my cue to rush
  an attack the 4 guards sitting in the camp.  When I was sure he had gotten
  the message I stood up from the bush and said, "Devil?  Didn't you once
  consider me a blessing from God?  Well I'm neither.", I finished while
  drawing my sword.
      The three who were at the fire quickly scrambled for their weapons and
  got into defensive stances.  I then signaled Compton, who launched himself
  at the one that had remained silent, while I proceeded for the talkative
  pair.  As I calmly advanced in casual slow steps I found the fourth guard
  going into the larger tent.  My pair of opponents were split over what to
  do.  One wanted to run, while the other charged me in open aggression.
  Ducking low and to the side I raised my sword, so that the advancing body
  had a leak of bodily organs  from it's abdomen.  Then the other made his
  decision and turned to flee, and if you ask me it was a wise one at that.
      Compton now in his first real battle downed his opponent to awaken to a
  zombie like state.  He had seen death before, but not only was this by his
  own hand, but someone he had once known and respected.  He slowly slumped
  down on a nearby log which had recently been vacated.  Seeing the situation
  I knew I had no time for him now.


      Find out what happens in the next installment soon to arrive on
  GALLIFREY.  Any questions, comments, or discussion is invited on the
  Science Fiction base, by the Author Kilo Byte Killer.





The On-Going Novel, Chapter by Chapter.....

 1) New preface by the author-READ THIS!
 2) Introduction to the novel.
 3) Chapter 1, Part 1.
 4) Chapter 1, Part 2.
 5) Chapter 1, Part 3.
 6) Chapter 2, Part 1.
 7) Chapter 2, Part 2.
 8) Chapter 2, Part 3.
 9) Chapter 2, Part 4.(02/18/87)
 10) Chapter 2, Part 5.(2/28/87)
 11) Chapter 2, Part 6.(3/15/87)
 12) Chapter 2, Part 7.(4/06/87)
 13) Chapter 2, Part 8.(4/28/87)
 14) Chapter 2, Part 9 (5/26/87)
 15) Chapter 3, Part 1 (8/04/87)
 16) To be continued.....


Select (Q=Exit)> 11

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]

     At the knight's tent I cut through the canvas to find a sole figure
 waiting over a still figure on a bed.  I made a fake jabbing motion toward
 his groan which brought his guard down to defend, and left his whole upper
 body open for blade I placed inside his throat.  To free the blade I jerked
 to the left pulling out that side of the neck.  Then I approached the still
 sleeping Khoman to place my heavy foot on his chest and blade at his throat,
 as I pulled away the blanket.
     Under the blanket I found a totally shocking surprise.  There was not a
 King, but instead one of his squires.  No, make that a knight from the armour
 he was wearing.  It was the one squire that Compton had injured in sparring.
 Pushing my foot into his chest I asked, "What happened at the Excavon?"
     He didn't respond so I tensed my muscles in a rapid movement which
 effectively knocked the wind out of him for a second.  Then he said, "After
 you fled we re-organized and avenged the King's death, and then proclaimed
 you a traitor."  At that point he spit in my face in contempt.
     Wiping it off I replied in cool calmness, "You know I have this habit of
 killing to eliminate danger.  I'm trying to cut back, so I'll let you go
 after you tell me what happened.  Now I know for a fact that the odds made it
 almost impossible for you to win in that battle, so why don't you tell me the
 truth."
     He just repeated his little statement again and then added, "You fool.
 You know that you have now given my lord time to escape from your evil
 powers.  You will never beat a real man.  Now let me go."
     I shrugged, lifted my boot and sword, and said, "Sure."
     This surprised him, but he still slowly got up.  Though when he turned I
 said, "Before you leave though I would like to give you a little present."
 With that I cleanly sliced his left hamstring in half.  While he was falling
 I kicked him a few yards forward, and told him to get on his way.
     Knowing I had more pressing matters elsewhere I left the knight to his
 own escape, and went back to Compton.  He had covered his head with his arms,
 and I could hear the faint sound of weeping.  Sitting next to him with my
 back leaning against a log I asked without any emotion, "What's wrong?"
     He wept a little louder and looked up.  His eyes were soaked and red from
 the massive amounts of tears that had been streaming down his face.  I had
 expected him to take death well, but this was different.  I wasn't sure how
 well Compton knew the young man, but I was sure they at least knew one
 another.  Now all I could do was to bring out the emotions and destroy them
 in my own way.  I had no other idea on how to control the situation.  Then
 with a moment of thought, and a wipe of his face he responded in a haggard
 voice, "I grew up with him.  Did you his name was Tomath.  He wasn't so
 bad."
     To start my strategy I told him a little of my past, "What you did wasn't
 that bad.", I paused for some reaction and contemplation to bring on more
 attention, "I had probably killed hundreds of men before I was 18.  In fact
 we were forced to grow up in death where I lived.", then I realized I would
 have to explain about the Old Society and Federation for him to fully
 comprehend, "I'm going to tell you something now that only I and the King
 know.  You must understand that you can't tell anyone about it."
     His face started to change expressions slowly melting into a small hint
 of interest.  He nodded his understanding, so I continued my little
 narration, "Those legends about your people originating from the stars are
 all true believe it or not.  A great technological society only known as the
 Government, now long gone, formed this planet from a barren rock to this
 habitable world.  They then settled it with your people and nurtured it into
 what you see now, but 1900 years ago they left your world to be defeated by
 their greedy rivals, now also long gone.  What was left of these two
 societies were scattered across many stars.  Some formed into a society ruled
 by a group of kings, or Governors as they are called.  It is called the Old
 Society.  Myself and the King were members of a select class there.  We were
 the Warriors.
     "We, the Warriors, were breed like animals by our masters, so we would be
 stronger, quicker, more agile, and sometimes smarter then normal.  After a
 hundred of select generations these Warriors were able to live on worlds,
 where things were all three times as heavy and every action took three times
 as much effort, as if you would do it here.  Thats how I can jump 3m straight
 up with no effort at all.  Then they taught us the Martial arts, the art of
 war, as it originated from an old planet called Earth.  They started teaching
 the moves that later become instinct before we could even walk.  Then at age
 four we begin study for the equivalent of sun up to sun down for you.  Then
 we spent time studying other subjects, awake and asleep if you can believe
 it.  Also around age eight we all get put on a firing squad and executed
 prisoners, or dissidents.  Then at your age we start pulling ship duty, and
 then almost every 1 out of 5 convoys is attacked in some way, so experience
 in combat and other practical skills are honed normally by age 20 to 22
 depending on the amount of training.  I finished my training about five years
 ago at age 23, because I was trained in just about every field needed to run
 a ship, crew, and battle.  The King also had specialized training as a spy.
 I'm literally a walking killing machine as long as my strength holds out.", I
 said picking at the grass around where I sat.
     "What do you mean as long as your strength holds out?", Compton asked to
 my surprise.  Maybe he had started to forget about it already.
     "Normally, when you go to a world that requires less effort to preform
 stuff it starts to eat away at your system.  Within a year a person nears the
 point where he can't survive in the higher effort world at all, but must stay
 in the low effort world with a reduction in strength.  By now I should be
 only a little stronger then some of the best on this planet, but I was
 implanted with a type of herb, or drug as it is more normally called, that
 last for years, and allows me to stay in a low effort world without the
 side-effects.  If I remember right they gave me a ten year dose and that was
 four years ago, so I have about 6 years of strength left.", I explained.
     Sitting silently for a few minutes I let him contemplate what I had said.
 I had walked a fine line of vagueness and techno-shock with that speech, and
 now I had to wait and see if I slipped off anywhere.  Then just before
 Compton was going to respond I jumped to a standing position and pulled him
 up behind me.  One of the search parties was returning from the North.  In
 false security they had made enough sound to alert me to their presence about
 40m off.  Securing my sword I jumped back into the brush that lead back to
 the river, and started to make my way along the makeshift trail.  I could
 hear Compton fast behind my side.
     We found the river to be exactly the way it had been left.  One dead
 horse lying in the shallows and another waiting on the other bank munching on
 grass, happily I might add.  I continued across the river to the other side.
 When Compton caught up to me I helped him up to his mount.  Ignoring some
 comments made about the riding situation I started to lead the horse through
 the woods at a run.
     An hour later I stopped my trotting pace and began a walk to gain back my
 strength from my exhausted state.  Then Compton said, "Sir, we must stop the
 horse seems to be resisting your lead.  I think he might have stomach cramps,
 or the likes, since he just ate and ran.  Plus, a rest would do us all a bit
 of good."
     Nodding my head I agreed, and stopped on that very spot.  After tieing
 the horse up to a low branch, I slowly slumped down to my knees.  Spreading
 them slightly apart with my feet touching, I began to get a perfectly
 rhythmical breathing back to my body.  With in minutes I was rested and felt
 like continuing, but I knew better.  Compton and the horse needed some rest,
 so I decided to give Compton a lesson on the multiplication tables.
     Like most people he quickly mastered the zero's, one's, and two's, but
 from then on out he would need much work to understand.  We had the three's
 marginally down before dark, but I didn't push him anymore that night.  He
 would just have to learn the rest and confirm it at a later date.

                                  *    *    *
     How well will Compton learn his math facts?  Tune into this Dbase on
 Gallifrey for the next installment.  Mail is encouraged to be entered to the
 Author, Kilo Byte Killer, on the Science Fiction base.








Enter selection or <return> for menu: 12

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]

                                  *    *    *

     The next day we had another discussion on what our options might be.  We
 finally agreed that we had better move before Kohman could reorganize that
 party and set on our trails.  The major matter of discussion was on where to
 go though.  Our original plan of riding into King Julik's territory and
 requesting aid in any shape it came, was now out since Excavon lived and
 considered us traitors.  When that news reached Julik we would be in some
 real trouble, so we decided to enter his kingdom, but only as a bypass to
 danger onto the next prospect.
     We both climbed onto the horse and began riding.  The forest trail we
 followed was very wide and well worn.  The whole width of the trail, about
 5m, was shaded by trees that leaned over the path to make a living canopy of
 green.  With the added breeze, the day was pretty nice as a total.
     From what I could remember this forest, the Huren, had a radius of about
 270 kilometers.  This large expanse of forest resides in a gap between two
 large mountain range.  A branch of the Dannth river cuts a path through the
 dense woods that has been settled and is always well traveled.  Since the
 forest is to dense and inhabited by dangerous wildlife, the river and this
 path were the only two ways through.  The road, as it should really be called
 with the cobblestone lane running down the center of this dirt path, was less
 widely used, for it was rumored that ghost and ghouls romped along the route
 at days end.  In the end it was the perfectly rational choice to take.
     For the next week we followed the uneventful trail at a moderate pace.
 Shooting game and picking edible plants we gained our necessary meal each day.
 Then after the sun had fell and the super done I continued on Compton's math
 facts.  He had a tough time of it finishing the multiplication table through
 nine, but on our last night in the woods I felt he had the tables down to
 necessary level of perfection, and could soon proceed onto multiplying numerous
 digits.
     Our last day in the woods we ran into a slight problem as we tried to
 leave.  The cobblestone lane ended in an iron gate locked with chain and key.
 To either side of this huge rusting obstacle were stone fences of formidable
 heights.  Stepping down from the horse I approached the gate to examine this
 portal.
     Compton shouted from the horse back, "I guess this ruins our day.  Maybe
 we can try going back and squeezing through the woods without the horse?"
     I wasn't going to wait that long to impede our good progress.  Drawing my
 sword I took a step back and slowly lowered it to the lock itself.
 Concentrating on my goal I imagined what must next happen.  Then in a flash
 and glint of steel like lightning I raised the sword and brought it back down
 on the lock in a deft motion that ripped the lock into two large portions.
 Bringing the sword back for my scrutiny I observed what I had believed would
 happen.  The blade had not taken any damage, not even a scratch.  The true
 test of this blade was not the flesh it had bit, but the power in which I
 could pass through it.  It had just passed with flying colors, and broken
 heavy duty lock.
     Resheathing the sword to my back, I kicked the gates open.  With a creak
 of the hinges and flaking of rust the door opened enough to let us pass.
 Guiding the horse through the now open portal, I saw the astonished look on
 Compton's face.  He had probably expected the sword to break in two on that
 heavy iron lock, but when it burst open he was taken by surprise.  As I
 leaped to the horses back, I said to him, "Don't be surprised at anything I
 do anymore, remember I'm an alien."  I don't think he knew what I said since
 that word is nonexistent in his world's dialect.
     Outside the gate the cobblestone lane disappeared into three dirt roads
 leading in different directions over the surrounding hill.  As I was no expert
 on which roads lead to what demise I asked my resident geographer to be, "Now
 where?"
     He spent some time thinking then said, "I would guess the right one to be
 our best choice.  It leads away from all civilization except for a few little
 hamlets, and roadhouses.  We should be able to stay there for a couple
 months without the news catching up to us.  By then we will think of
 something."
     So I pulled our mount to the right and began to trot down the dirt way at
 a reasonably relaxed speed.  When we topped the hill I could see to my left a
 large city resting below in a valley that must belong to King Julik.  The
 city seemed to be only mildly fortified, and inhabited by anywhere from
 100,000 to 150,000 people.  This was truly amazing accomplishment for such
 low-tech world.  I had no idea how the sanitation problems are addressed, but
 it didn't concern me two much since we were heading away from this
 metropolis.
     That night we slept in a barn just outside the first hamlet that marked
 the outskirts of civilization.  The owner had offered me, for I was a knight,
 his own bed for the night.  To be polite and non-imposing, I just asked if I
 could stay in the barn.  He agreed eagerly and showed us around the barn.
 Just after he left us his wife came out carrying two trays of food.  Looking
 at the content of the meal it seemed way too extravagant for these people to
 even consider.  I bowed to her and said, "I thank you for your obvious
 generosity, but I feel I must repay you in some way."  She said that was
 alright, and hurried on out into the darkness back to the house.
     After I had finished the meal I found an axe hanging on a post near the
 rear, and I threw it down to were Compton sat.  "Come on we're going to repay
 them for this hospitality.", I said signaling for him to come along.
     Just behind the small house I found a covered pile of uncut wood.  Taking
 a piece of wood I took the axe from Compton, and started to cut to wood into
 burnable fourths.  In an hour I had done almost half the pile and Compton had
 restacked it.  I felt for now this would be a mild compensation for their
 extravagant generosity.  Going back to the barn, I gave Compton a short
 review of his multiplication tables.  He had all he needed, zero's through
 nine's, down to my satisfaction, so I just let it go and we both went to
 sleep.
     In the morning I woke up early and told Compton to prepare the horse
 while I saw to some business.  Going up to the the little house I knocked on
 the door to be greeted by the women with a wide grin.  I told her about the
 chopped wood and then thanked her again, and said good bye.  The farewell
 wasn't the last words though for she argued with me to get me to stay for
 breakfast, but I eventually convinced her I couldn't, and with a final farewell
 I mounted the now waiting horse and continued down the road in which we rode
 in on.
     Just under a mile further we rode into the village the farm had bordered.
 It consisted of a few homes, a couple craftsmen, a trading post/outfitters,
 and a roadside tavern.  The tavern was the place I now seeked.  These
 establishments provided services in any culture, time, or tech-level.  Those
 services consist of finding jobs, finding experienced personal, getting
 information, and getting drunk.  The later I intended to avoid at all
 causes.
     Without thinking or realization, I walked into the bar.  Inside it was
 extremely quiet with two or three spots of light cutting through the thick
 shadows of the establishment.  The only occupant of the building right now
 was a short chunky barmaid mopping the floors.  It never occurred to me that
 this business closes in the morning because of the lack of customers.  Then
 to my right, on the door, I saw a sign saying the place opened an hour before
 sunset.  Waving to the barmaid who had stopped working, I proceeded to
 leave.
     While I was closing the door I felt something holding it open.  Looking
 to see what this obstacle might be, I saw a pudgy little hand.  That hand was
 revealed to belong to the barmaid I had just seen.  She smiled and said,
 "Sir, please come back in.  We can serve you anytime."
     Turning back around I said, "No thank you madam.  I will come back later
 tonight when it is more convienant for you."  With that I turned back around
 and walked away from the tavern.
     The armor that I now wore was more a liability to me then ever.  The
 small crest I wear allows people to identify me from a considerable distance
 as royalty.  Somehow I would have to get rid of it and into a less respected
 outfit.
     Walking through the small village I saw the local general
 store/outfitter.  It looked to be a barn that had been converted and built
 onto, so one might sell merchandise from it.  Finding the entrance I went in
 to see the wares available.  The place, already extremely large, was crowded
 to the point that one had to wade through to the counter.  As I traversed the
 mounds of commodities I noticed a great variety of objects, furs, second hand
 weapons, wood carvings, survival gear, a little bit of leather jack, and an
 endless assortment of other things.
     The counter was over to one corner with a window out over the town.
 Behind the counter a middle aged, balding man was stumped down on a high
 stool.  Only when Compton, who was now following me, tripped over a low rack
 and made a loud scuttling sound did the owner look up to see me.  Standing up
 to accomidate us he asked, "What may I do for his lordness."
     "I want to sell the armour.  How much would you give me for it?"
     Coming closer he scrutinized the quality of the stitch and material with
 which it had been made from.  Then after taking some measurements he said,
 "Sir, I couldn't give you more then 15 weights of gold for the whole."
     In astonishment I asked, "What do you mean 15.  It cost nearly 200
 weights to make."
     "Thats probably right, because such size of armour is hard to come by.
 This material can't easily be altered anymore since it has already been
 fitted for your frame, and I doubt I will ever see anyone who could fill that
 design.  It would be worth what I could make out of it.  Like little handy
 items, but nothing as elegant as armour.", he said with a sever frown.
     Patting the man on the back I reassured him that he was right.  Then
 another idea came to me, "How much would you pay for a medium warhorse with
 full gear?"
     He looked out his window and down onto the horse we had been riding for a
 week now.  It wasn't the best of mount from what I gather, but it had filled
 the job of transporting very well.  I imagine that it could pull a good load,
 and some farmer might want him.  I guess I would just have to wait and see
 what I could get for the horse right now.
     The store owner looked back at me and said, "I would have to take a
 better look sir, but I would give you a base price of 30 weights of gold."
     We haggled a bit went out and examined the horse thoroughly, and went back
 in to haggle a bit more.  Finally we arrived on an agreement of pay in
 equipment.  With this I started to search through his shop for things I might
 need.  Some things were 20m of rope, a lantern, some oil for the lamp, a bow,
 about 20 arrows in a quiver, a water flask, some preserved rations, some
 flint and striking steel, and boot knife that was balanced for throwing.
 After I got the equipment together we haggled some more, and in the end we
 agreed on a trunk and 20 weights of silver.

Enter selection or <return> for menu: 13

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]
     Later that evening I arrived alone again at the tavern.  On the other
 side of town I had found an abandoned shack.  There I had put almost all my
 stuff in the trunk and had Compton watch my things, while I was gone.  Now
 all I had was the clothes from under my armour, my sword, 20 weights in
 silver, and my boot knife in no other place but the boot.
     It was about an hour after sunset and a cooling night.  The common room
 of the bar was already full of shadowed whispers as I entered.  The door
 slammed shut behind me as a sliver of light feel directly across my face.
 The majority of the common room had gotten menacing quiet with my slamming of
 the door.  Taking off my cape to hang on the rack next to the door, I was
 amazed at the tenseness present in the group here.
     Coming right up to the bar, I ordered a glass of ale.  When the
 bartender, a short stocky man, brought back the drink I payed him with a
 whole weight of silver.  Giving me the change I gave it right back to him and
 mumbled, "You know much about magic?"
     This small little comment seemed to take him by surprise.  I wanted
 information and that was one thing a person could expect from a bar.  He then
 looked around and saw that no one needed his attention and that we were
 slightly away from everyone else.  he then proceeded to talk in a slow
 whisper, "This isn't the place to look for them wizards, but your getting
 close.  There was two or three that used to live around here just under two
 years ago, but... well people say Randolf got to them.", I nodded my
 acknowledgement which seemed to start him talking again, "Deeper you go back
 in the less settled area the more you might find.  They don't like practicing
 around people, and they're secret about everything to.  Lately though more
 and more rumors seem to pop up about them disappearing, and how Randolf's
 been getting them."
     When he stopped I looked down and saw that his hand was twitching in a
 way that resembled the grabbing of money.  Finishing my drink I said,
 "Another of what I've been having barman."  He quickly brought me another and
 continued his mini-lecturne, "A guy a few weeks ago said that Randolf is
 getting them to help him fight.  All but one of these sorcers is falling in,
 and word is that he is the best of them all.  Fought off a whole division
 Randolf sent against they say."  He had started to nod his head to the point
 where it got pretty tiring just to watch it.
     "Where is this Magi of power?"
     Leaning closer he said, "TUREP"
     With that I thanked him and started to walk to the door.  Halfway to the
 coat rack someone stood up in front of me and barred my way.  Looking me and
 my semi-fancy dress over he said, "How well can you throw that knife?",
 pointing to my boot knife.
     "I've been bettered many times.", I said thinking about some of the
 others who had a slight edge on me in ballistics.
     He looked at me taking a swig of his ale which mostly went to the shirt
 covering his beer belly, and said, "Give you a weight in gold if you can beat
 me."
     He must have been the town ringer.  Many of the people around me were
 bickering about the odds.  Then I saw my opportunity, "I don't know I doubt I
 can beat that."
     Looking around with a smirk he said, "Alright I'll give you 10 to 1
 odds."  Ohio was he confident in himself and stupid to set odds like that in
 the beginning.  I looked questioning and he raised it to 1 to 15 odds.
     "Ok, but I only have 20 weight of gold to put down on this.  You know,
 for fair sportsmanship and all."   We shook on it and agreed.  He put down
 the amount, which was mostly covered by his friends in he interest of making
 a quick profit.  Then they wanted my gold.  In an offensive nature I said,
 "Well if you don't think I can afford it then maybe I should just go
 elsewhere."  That quickly broke up any grumbling about that matter.
     The challenger drew an excellent throwing knife out of his sleeve and
 took aim at the target.  Then in a flash he threw it across the 15m distance
 into the target.  Vibrating in the wood under the cork, the knife sat in the
 outer rim of the bullseye.  The people went ecstatic with joy.  A women came
 up and started to hug my opponent with a great amount of joy.  He probably
 just doubled her butter and egg money.
     When the roar of the customers wore down I prepared to throw.  Looking at
 the target I saw what I had to do.  In a flash I took the knife out of it's
 boot holster and slung it at the target.  With a thud, not much vibration
 since I throw straight, it landed on the target.  Then a second later in the
 still, frozen air a second thud resounded across the room.  It was soon
 accompanied by many jaws dropping in disbelief.  The bottom half of the
 target, starting at the exact center down, had been split and fell to the
 dusty floor underneath.  The knife was still sticking into the wall with it's
 whole 15cm length.  After picking up the money I had won, I proceeded through
 the surprised crowd to retrieve my knife.  When the knife came free, a
 sizable portion came with it.  In pity for the damages I threw a weight of
 gold to the owner in compensation.  Leaving the establishment in it's
 silentness I said, "Thank you all for the sport, maybe I'll return some
 day."
     I had been braced for this moment ever since the target split.  The one's
 who had lost, about everyone, wanted to beat me until I bleed them their
 money back.  As they rushed I closed the front door, which opens outward.
 Then to the side of the door is a fairly heavy metal rain basin.  Drawing my
 sword I removed two of the four supports.  In a creak of wood the basin feel
 in front of the door to block exit from the bar.  That would keep them busy
 while I made a quick escape.

                                  *    *    *

     To get to the village of Turep was a journey consisting of eight days by
 foot.  As we progressed further into the backwater area of this planet, the
 fewer settlements we found.  Turep was supposedly sitting on the edge of
 civilization from what I could gather as we went.  With this seclusion maybe
 we could stay in confidence of not being found by our nemesis.
     I never had big anticipations for Turep, but how I had overestimated it.
 The town consisted of three main buildings.  One being the church and town
 hall of course.  Second being the trading post, and last but never the least
 was the local tavern.  Then many farmhouses and other residences surrounded
 this metropolitan center.
     I went right to the tavern, which also like many others was an inn on the
 side, since it was almost dark.  In fact the golden disc of the sun exhausted
 it's last rays behind the mountain range just beyond the town as we entered.
     Entering the room I had Compton stow all the gear as I removed my armour.
 Putting my armour in the trunk with the other things, I slung my sword over
 my back and my knife in my boot for a night on the town.  As I was leaving I
 gave Compton some problems to work out in long division.  They should take a
 couple hours to work out.
     Descending the stairs I saw a dark arch from which a low mumble exited
 from.  The room beyond was as I suspected, the common room.  A good portion
 of the local population appeared to be assembled here tonight.  Through the
 shadowy figures I ducked to get to the bar.  Sitting on one of the stools, I
 ordered an ale and steak.
     Waiting for my meal to be prepared, I turned to scan the others inside
 the room.  Out of the 30 or 35 people present most seemed to be talking about
 the weather and this seasons crops.  A few were on their own slumped over a
 drink of sorts, while others ate dinner like I soon hoped to do.  Turning
 back to the bar I waited for the bartender's return.
     About ten minutes later the barman returned with a well done steak and a
 large mug of ale.  Pulling out one of the gold weights I had I decided to
 repeat what I had tried before with great success.  When he laid the change
 down for the gold I took it all but two weights of silver and asked, "What's
 this I hear about a wizard of sorts in this area?"
     With some shock his smile quickly disappeared.  He looked around and
 shoved my extra change back in my direction.  With that final action he
 walked off in a hushed haste.  Trying to consider what had went wrong with my
 plan, I felt a strange air around me.  Instinct turned my head to a booth
 slightly to my right.  Inside the booth I saw a young man dressed in fairly
 poor clothes get up and walk out.  I didn't get a good mental picture of him,
 but that strange air left on his heels.
     In frustration I gave up and took the steak back up to my room.  Ripping
 a piece off one corner I began to chew the tender meat in concentration.
 Giving Compton the rest I slumped back down in the bed and tried to consider
 my options for a back up plan to the one that just seemed to fail.  Without
 the townfolks help I might as well look for a wizard in the vacuum between
 stars with this plan.  Finishing the steak I fell asleep in mid-thought.

                                  *    *    *

Enter selection or <return> for menu: 14

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]

                                  *    *    *

     That morning was slightly cool with a mild cloud overhang.  Just after
 breakfast though a rain broke and started to flood the muddy streets right
 out of town.  This morning the crowd eating in the common room seemed more
 subdued.  I thought it was the rain until I noticed that the majority of them
 were whispering to each other, and glancing fearfully in my direction.  This
 was definitely not a result of my royalty I quickly concluded.
     Getting out of that unfriendly atmosphere as quickly as possible I lead
 Compton to the trading post.  The street that divided our location and goal
 was almost a river of running water.  Carefully crossing it, trying to keep
 our armour under the canvas ponchos I had cut, we gained the other side.
 Open ing the door we found an aging women behind a counter.  She had been
 knitting or some other hobby local to this planet before we had come in, but
 now her silver hair looked up upon us.  "What can I do you for sir?"
     "Just looking for now.  Thank you anyway.", I said as a polite gesture.
 The store had a great assortment of non-perishables organized into special
 categories.  To one side was furs and the likes.  In the middle sat staples
 for the local community, and on the other side sat crafted items and many
 items that could be used for such purposes.  In the very back though was the
 oddities like weapons.  If this old women ran the whole store, which I doubt
 with her feeble little frame she could, the weapons were just a side business
 she didn't know anything about.
     Looking in the weapons section I found a good deal of worthless junk.
 Most of it was stuff that petty thieves wouldn't want to use.  One sword I
 feel safe saying only had one hit in it before the hilt and blade became two
 entirely different items.  One bow was missing the top two or three
 centimeter where the bow string goes.  Almost all of the weapons had become
 duller then a butter knife.  In amusement I continued to search through the
 pile of comical quality.
     Then putting my hand under a mace to pick it up, I felt a sharp prick on
 my finger.  Rolling the mace over I found a dagger.  Picking it up I found
 that it still retained it's edge, a rarity in this lot.  In my hand it felt
 very familiar almost like a good friend, but I didn't recognize it yet.  The
 blade was a bit dusty and slightly oil caked.  Pulling a rag out from under
 the counter on which it had sat I started to wipe off the scum.  The layer of
 dirt came off easily to show a flawless, perfect blade.  Then the gleam of
 the blade in the flickering light told me where I had seen it before, or at
 least it's sister blade.  This was made in the same mysterious way my sword
 had been done.  The hilt even seemed alike with a simple leather handle.
 This little pin of a blade was even better balanced then the sword for it's
 20cm length.  Finding a simple leather sheath next to where it used to sit, I
 proceeded to buy it.
     The old women looked down at the dagger and said, "I guess I could let
 you have it for two weights of silver.  It ain't any worth to me."
 Exchanging the proper amounts, I finished the transaction.  Shoving the
 dagger onto my belt, I called for Compton to hurry along.  He wasn't going to
 buy anything anyway.
     I was glancing at the furs by the door as Compton arrived at my side.
 Then a tugging feeling came to my shoulder.  Looking at the sender of this
 signal, I found Compton holding his finger out the shop window.  Following
 his line of sight I found a group of men assembled in the middle of the mud
 street.  The rain was still coming down strongly, but this didn't seem to
 bother them at all.  They must have been standing there for at least ten
 minutes for their cheap canvas clothes had been soaked to their bodies, but
 even this seemed not to distract their attention.
     Opening the front door I was taken totally by surprise.  First a surge of
 air rushed from behind me to a point in front of me.  Only for a brief second
 did I see the heat waves in front of me.  Then with a great force, I was
 thrown back into the store some 5m, into a shelf wall.  I felt as if a red
 hot brick wall had ran up and hit me.  The heat of the blast peeled off the
 first layer of my armour in charred chunks before the heat dissipated.  When
 I tried to jump back up to my feet I felt another invisible wall on top of
 me.  While I was straining on getting up a wave of ideas came over my mind.
 It seemed like I was thinking about a thousand different things at once.
 After a few seconds my mind started to feel like it was going to explode from
 overload.
     Suddenly, my mental disciplines from the Martial arts came to my aid.  I
 stopped struggling against the wall, and concentrated on clearing my mind.
 Clearing my mind was impossible, but at least I started to absorb the
 multitude of information that was flooding my mind.  Soon I was channeling
 the incoming information into my memory like water channeled away from people
 and into a reservoir to the side.  With a calm mind, I rolled to my left to
 escape the press, and enormous heat, of the unseen wall above me.
     When I was free of the force, a whole was blown into the floor below my
 old position.  Hiding behind the door frame I surveyed the battle scene.  I
 estimated about 15 to 18 of those wizards were out there from what I
 remember.  Other things were I was unarmed against their style of fighting,
 my armour was ruined and now inhibited my actions.  Drawing my dagger I cut
 the straps off my armour and let it fall to the floor.  I spotted Compton
 kneeling down below the window while I removed my leather jack.  Giving him
 the appropriate hand signals I told him my plan.
     Simultaneously, we jumped through the glass panes in the windows at our
 side and charged.  Half-way across the street my mind received a more violent
 assault.  The channeling walls were suddenly overrun by a bizarre assortment
 of thoughts.  Slowing down to a stumble I pushed on with a hazy goal left in
 mind.  The closer I came the harder it was to hold the input back away from
 total control of my mental facilities.  I edged further on towards the
 eradication of my enemies, my oppressors, my hatred.
     Not aware of anything except the poorly dressed man in front of me I
 continued on toward my goal.  Stumbling along the way with sword held high I
 fought to move my legs onward.  Then a third wave of mental agitation hit me.
 Combined with the first two waves I fell helplessly to the ground.  As my
 brain started to boil away I struggled for just a second of control.  Slowly
 I reached my hand down further and further.  Storing up my energy for a
 defensive action, I waited as my mind was on it's way to being destroyed.
     With a mental snap I set up a second wall of sheer mental power in my
 mind.  The clearing of my total mind allowed for me to grab my boot knife in
 a lightning flash, and embedded it into one of my opponents before my defense
 dropped.  Like a dam disappearing, my mind was flooded with the mental
 onslaught.  After that tidal force though I felt a great drop in intensity.
 Slowly, I actually regained my basic mental, and motor functions.  Coming to
 a standing position I charged the remainder of the wizards in blind rage.
     My sword, swung heavy, bit into their flesh with great ease.  One after
 the other they fell easily to my unyielding blade.  With each deadly stroke I
 regained another portion of my mind until finally I realized that only I and
 Compton still stood in the rain.  The street was not a river of mud and water
 now, but one of crimson blood.  Sheathing my sword I started to walk toward
 Compton, but feel in mid-step.  The sleep that came to me was not that of
 physical healing, but something new to me.  A slipped into a coma to deal
 with the deep wounds, and long scars of my mind.


     Tune in next time to see if K. Killer can actually top this.  Remember
 comments are always welcome, just send them to K. Killer.  Also I'm going to
 try to keep a little more current then I have been, sorry.



Enter selection or <return> for menu: 15

Ctrl and [S-Stop] [Q-Continue] [C-Quit]

                                   CHAPTER 3

             Dry as the waterless desert, was all that could come to
         mind.  Searching my body, I found my throat as parched as the
         pages an excellent sage might keep.  Then my eyes caught some
         light through their heavy eyelids, and I attempted to open
         them.  With much effort I accomplished the task which allowed
         me to eventually see my surroundings.  I was in the room in
         which I had rented for me and Compton.  With a small whiff my
         olfactories registered the presence of rich aromatic foods.
         I was finally recovering my mind.
             With a little more effort I moved my lips to form the
         word, "WATER", in a low growl of my vocal cords.  With this I
         heard scrambling about and soon saw Compton standing over me
         with a water flask.  Reaching my stiff hand up I took the
         bladder and slowly reintroduce my system to hydration.
         Quickly, I had gotten to the point of where I finished off
         the bag in no time flat.  Throwing the bladder back to
         Compton I got up to limber my lethargic muscles.
             Sitting down at the small table in the room, I began to
         eat the fruit and luke warm roast on the table.  Within a few
         minutes I had fulfilled my relatively small appetite.
         Compton arrived back in the room with three bladders of water
         just a few minutes later.  Thirstily, I downed one and a
         half.  The other one and a half I saved for later, while I
         questioned my nurse.
             "What happened?"
             Stirring a little he began, "Well I started to tear into
         the left side of the group.  They didn't offer any
         resistance, so I hesitated.  I didn't even see you come into
         action.  Then I saw a knife go into one's skull, so I knew
         you where doing something.  Then I saw you pile into the
         other side like a drunk, but you took them out easily.  Under
         a minute later we stood alone in the street.  Thats when you
         collapsed.  I brought you up here thinking you had been
         wounded.  I had been informed on what to do by the King
         himself, so don't worry.  You lay still for three days.  Even
         drank two flask of water a day when I offered it to you."
             "Next time double that amount.  I almost died of thirst
         this time.  Don't blame yourself it didn't seem natural
         anyway.  I wasn't wounded though.  Those men outside the
         store, if you don't already now, were wizards.  They didn't
         even know you existed.  Only concentrated on killing me.
         Luckily I work a little bit differently then they do, so I
         had the edge and won."
             Compton obviously didn't want to talk about it anymore.
         That was ok, since I didn't want to tell him anymore, for how
         could he know about mental exhaustion when I barely
         understand it myself.  He would just have to except what he
         has seen and that is that.
             For now I had to confer with myself on what to do.  I had
         been looking for a wizard, but now that I had killed over a
         dozen of them it will be pretty hard to find one.  Most of
         the town probably thinks I am some kind of killer, or will my
         royalty bail me out there.  If those wizards had been hired,
         which they probably had since they usually don't work on
         anything more than groups of three, would their patron attack
         me again when the word of failure reaches him.  These were
         some of the variables I had to work into my new plan to
         achieve my goal, and what a plan that would be.

                                  *    *    *

             Having bought a horse and tent to add to outdoor
         supplies, we left Turep on a wild rumor.  I had finally
         coaxed someone into talking about magic in this area.  This
         town had been the center of commerce for a great many of
         these wizards at one time.  Many people had reported seeing
         wild and amazing things happen along the base of the mountain
         where most of them live.  It was once estimated that close to
         a hundred had lived within 100 kilometers from here.  Then
         one day Randolf the Superior's men stalk into town in a small
         force.  Then about two weeks later all the wizards seemed to
         march out on the towns main road.  Since then they have seen
         the wizards come back a few times.  Once to challenge another
         one of their kind who had stayed behind in the woods, but
         rumor has it that they failed and ran.  The other time was
         when they had attacked me.
             With some more pushing I had found out about this
         remaining wizard.  Her name was thought around town to be
         Zilma, but no one knew for sure.  She would come into town
         once every few months to pick up things she needed, but was
         never seen at other times.  Some people also believe that she
         was feared by the other wizards, and they would have liked to
         kill her.  This wizard's place seemed to be somewhere between
         70 kilometers north along the top of the range to 40
         kilometers northeast 15 kilometers from the base.  In the end
         the mountain range top won out over the other by a whim.
             So we set out early that morning hoping to find her by
         late tonight or sometime the next day.  We took a trail which
         lead gently up to the top of the mountain straight from
         Turep.  From here I could see that she couldn't live in the
         other location, since it had what appeared to be a large farm
         on it.  In renewed assurance we continued along the thinning
         trail.
             Around noon we were forced to dismount.  The foliage was
         overwhelming for anyone on horseback.  Drawing our swords, we
         began to hack away a new path where it appeared there once
         was one.  The further we went the more cluttered did the way
         become.  More then once did I have to discard or remove
         fallen trees that would have destroyed other's hopes.  An
         hour before sunset we came to an rock slope that lead up to
         the next mountain layer.  Looking forward to a good climb I
         decided to stay here for the night.
             While Compton set up camp I scouted the surrounding area.
         We couldn't go around this obstacle, and there wasn't any
         easy way up it for a mount.  The horse would have to be left
         behind.  Without his burden the hill could be claimed by us
         in under three hours I thought.  That would be something to
         find out about tomorrow.
             Climbing up a large boulder I looked down on the path we
         had traveled.  Then the corner of my eye caught a small
         flickering light.  Looking to the southeast I saw a light
         about 45 kilometers out.  Straining to see more closely I saw
         that is was not one giant light, but many different close
         groups of light.  A few even appeared to be made up of many
         more little lights.  Only one thing could produce such a
         sight, an army.  On this planet only one person had an army
         that size or larger mobile at all times, Randolf.
             My rage built up to a high as I observed the sight and
         thought about what sat below me.  The idea of him overrunning
         Excavon was filling my mind with a loathing for such a
         person.  He has many names in many different languages,
         demagogue in a democracy, warlord in militaristic society,
         religion fanatic, but one term stands out for all of them in
         his description, Tyrant.  I have seen the work of his type
         before in an oligarchy, and I never want to see it again.
         When I meet him I will do my best to rid this world of his
         presence forever.
             Coming back to camp I found a meal cooking over a new
         crackling fire.  Sitting down between the fire and tent I
         examined our location.  We were near the top of the ridge,
         and slightly behind this mound of rocks.  Though I fear if
         someone looked hard from that camp, they might just spot the
         light reflecting off the high rocks above us.  It didn't
         matter I guess, because it would take them some time to get
         any comparable force up here.  By that time we could easily
         be over the mountain range into uncharted region.
             I remember nothing of the dinner at all.  Ask me what I
         ate or said, I couldn't tell you.  I was absorbed in the
         incoming data and it's affect on old memories and
         information.  I fell asleep in this same state of awareness,
         and woke up to dawn unaware of the missing time.

                                  *    *    *

