Magical Elvish Armor for AD&D-

Elvish magical items are a favorite of ours here at Pendragon Productions.
This particular AD&D help file expands on our interests by sharing with
you some of the suits of magical elvish armor that we have created.  These
suits will hopefully be of great satisfaction to you.  If you like what you
see and want more, a donation of $3 or more will gain you 10 additional suits
for your game.  Send your donations to:
Pendragon Productions
c/o John Marchetti
PO Box 8147
Foster City  CA  94404
Now enjoy these suits of armor crafted by mighty elves long ago...

Armor of Salv:
This suit of elvish chainmail +1 was crafted as a joint venture between
the ancient elvish wizard Salv and an unknown dwarvish smith.  This armor
can be worn by fighters, but was crafted specifically for mages.  Any mage
that can fit into the armor can benefit from it's protection.  Not only
does the armor offer a bonus to the AC, but also gives a +4 bonus to saves
vs spells.  Finally, the suit grants the wearer 15% magical resistance.

Fandor's Suit of Battle-
This elvish plate mail is +6.  It is an ancient suit of armor lost long ago
by the elves who will pay dearly to have it recovered.  Crafted by the 
elvish fighter-mage Fandor this suit has many powers.  It grants a +2 bonus
to all saves.  It grants the wearer a strength of 22.  It allows the wearer
to regenerate 5 hit points per round.  It also allows the wearer to cast
each of the following spells once per day at 12th level of ability:fireball,
lightning bolt, magic missile, and cone of cold.

Armor of the Bladesinger:
Crafted in anicent times by the bladesinger Rorom, this suit of elvish chain
+3 is usable by elvish bladersingers only.  This armor adds +1 to hit and
damage with the character's chosen weapon.  It adds +1 to hit for any
unusual maneuver with the chosen weapon.  It also allows the bladersinger
to cast spells one handed at no penalty to spellcasting time.  Finally, the
armor allows the bladesinger to wear it at all times, as it weighs nothing
and is comfortable enough to sleep in.

Garwin's Suit of Black Death-
This suit of leather armor -2 was crafted by drow elves in an attempt to
kill as many of the surface elves as possible.  When first put on by any
surface elf, this suit of armor infects the wearer with a magical disease.
 The type of disease is left up to the DM's choosing, but
death of the wearer always occurs within 72 hours.  The only way to cure
the disease is to get the armor off of the wearer and the only way to do
that is with a wish spell.  Remove curse will not work.

Ellis's Suit of Sky-
This suit of elvish chain +2 was crafted by a nature priest of the elvish
gods.  On a roll of twenty when the wearer is in melee combat with an 
opponent, a bolt of lightning shoots from the chest at the target and does
3d6 damage.  Also, the wearer three times per day can command wings to
sprout from the back of the armor and he can fly for two hours at a time
at a rate of 240'/round.

Morgd's Mail-
This suit of elvish plate +4 was crafted with the noble elvish warrior in
mind.  It adds +2 to all combat rolls.  It weighs 10lbs.  If someone is
trying to attack from the rear side of the warrior, a set of magical eyes
appears on the backside of the armor and two beams of light shoot out at
the opponent.  Each beam of light does 3d6 damage and automatically hits.
The armor also has the ability to heal as the seventh level priest spell
once per day.

Tonar's Suit of Hides-
This suit of studded leather +4 was crafted by the ranger Tonar to help
him in combatting various creatures.  This suit has the ability each day
to change between one of four different types of scales.  These scales
are listed below and at the start of each day the wearer rolls a 1d4 to
determine what types of scales are present for that given day.  A new roll
must be done each day of game time. 
 1d4 random scales chart-
  1-dragon hide-makes wearer immune to all breath weapon attacks
  2-fish hide-allows the wearer to breath underwater
  3-griffon hide-allows the user to fly as a griffon 
  4-cheetah hide-allows movement as cheetah

Lightree's Leather Suit-
This +5 suit of leather armor was crafted by the elvish rogue Lightree and
is considered the ultimate armor for a thief to wear.  This armor adds +50%
to all thieving skills except move silently.  For move silently there is a 
+95% chance of success.  The armor has a special storage pouch hidden on the
inside of it that acts as a small bag of holding.  The armor also allows the
wearer to turn invisible up to six times per day.  Finally the armor adds a
bonus of +2 to hit and +10 to damage for sucessful backstabs. 	   

