12/11/89
                   How to become a lich ?
                ----------------------------

  Liches are high level clerics or magic-users who have become 
a very special undead. Before becoming a lich the cleric or
the magic user must have been at least 14th level in life,
although 18th level is most common.
once a lich is created it might drop in level ,but below 10th
level one cannot exists.
  Preperation for lichdom occurs while the figure is still 
alive and must be completed before his first "death".
if he dies somwhere along the line and is resurrected, than he 
must start all over again.
  The would-be lich needs this spells :Magic jar,Trap the soul 
and Enchant an item, plus a special potion(dealt later)
 and something to "jar" into. 
  The item into which a lich will jar is preapered by having 
enchant an item cast upon it. the item cannot be of the common
variety, but must be of high quality,solid,and of at least 
2000gp in value. The item must make a saving throw at if it were
the person casting the spell. (a cleric would have to have the 
spells Enchant an item and Magic Jar cast for him,and it is the
contracted magic user's level that would be used for the 
saving throw.) The item can contain prior magics, but wooden 
items are not acceptable.

  if the item is then soul receptive, the preapered candidate 
for lichdom will cast (or have cast) Magic jar on it and enter
the item.  as soon as he enters the jar he will lose a level 
and the corresponding "hit points" at once. the hit points and 
his soul are now stored in the jar.
He then must return to his own bosy and must rest for 2-7 days.
The ordeal is so demanding that his top three levels of spells 
are erased and will not come back until the rest period is over.
  The next time the character dies,regardless of 
circumstances,he will go into the jar,no matter how far away 
and no matter what the obstacles (including CUBES OF FORCE, 
PRISMATIC SPRAY,lead boxes etc.).  To get out again,the 
character must have his or another's recently dead body within 
90 feet of the jar. The body can be of any kind of creature, 
from a mouse to a werewolf. The corpse must fail its saving 
throws vs. magic to to be possessed. The saving throw is that 
of 1/2 hit die figure for a normal,animal,small monster 
etc.,regardless of alligment,if the figure had 3 or fewer hit 
dice in life. If it had 4+ it gains saving thriw by alligment :
Lawful good,chaotic good,neutral good - normal as in life;
lawful neutral,chaotic neutral,true neutral - at -3; 
lawful evil at -4; neutral evil at -5; and chaotic evil at -6.
The corpse can be dead for no longer then 30 days.
If it makes its saving throw,it'll never receive the lich. 
The character own corpse has no time limit,and it makes saving 
throws at -10, He may attempt to enter it once each week unti 
he secceeds.
  If the lich entered another's corpse, he will have the 
limited abilities of the corpse when it comes to physical 
strength. Intelligence and wisdom will be its own. It can have 
no more than 4 hit dice, and it will behave as a wight with no 
energy drain ability. If the corpse could cast spells in life, 
it can use spells up to 4th level of them. The wightish body 
have telepathics abilities if it could speak when it was alive.
  In that form,the wightis character must bring his own body 
to the location of the jar. It doesn't matter how, as an 
example he may take the ashes of the body,but all of them !!!
The remains radiate an unlimited loacate object spell.
When he finds the he will eat it up, in few weeks,a 
metamorphosis will occure,the wightish body will become a 
humanoid size,similar to the character original body, he will 
become a lich !
he now have all his spells(never need to learn them again) and 
he live forever !
  Each time from now he may enter the jar as he desires,but he 
loses one level of exp. each time he does that.

  But before all that occures ,the would be lich must make a 
special potion and drink it.
The components are:

2 pinches of pure arsenic
1 pinch of belladona
1 measure of fresh phase spider venom(less than 30 days old)
1 measure of fresh wyvern venom (less than 60 days old )
The blood of a humanoid killed by a phase spider
The blood of a humanoid killed by a mixture of arsenic and 
belladona,
The heart of a humanoid killed by wyvern venom
1 quart of blood from a vampire or a human infected with 
vampirism.

All this items must be mixed and drinked by the light of a 
full moon, when he drinks it, roll a dice:

01-10 No effect ,start over !
11-40 Fall into coma for 2-7 days. The potion works.
41-70 Feebleminded until dispelled. The potion works.
71-90 Paralized for 4-14 days. 30% of 1-6 DEX pts lost  
      the potion works.
91-96 Permanentli deaf,dumb or blind,only wish can regain
      senses. The potion works.
97-00 Dead. Start over if you can be resurrected.

if you : made a potion,drank it,rolled succesfully,
         died & ate your body,

You are now a fully operational LICH !!!!




























