










                ROBOTECH CHRONOLOGY (1999 - 2035) 



                     compiled and edited by

                         Edmund K.S. Woo































                                                             v2.7




                       ROBOTECH CHRONOLOGY


1999           Alien spaceship crash-lands on Earth, effectively ending
               almost a decade of Global Civil War.  Originally called
               "The Visitor," the ship is dubbed Super Dimensional
               Fortress I--the SDF-1.

               Dr. Emil Lang, after an initial recon of the ship (in the
               company of Roy Fokker, Henry Gloval, T.R. Edwards, and
               others), begins to unravel the secrets of an extraterres-
               trial science known as Robotech.

               Macross Island becomes the focal point of Robotechnology;
               and reconstruction commences on the SDF-1.

               In another part of the galaxy, Zor is killed by Invid
               soldiers during a Flower of Life seeding attempt. The
               Zentraedi Breetai is wounded during the same raid.
               Commander-in-chief Dolza orders Commander Reno to return
               Zor's body to the Robotech Masters on Tirol.

               Interstellar war with the Invid, whose homeworld, Optera,
               has been defoliated by the Zentraedi, continues to chip
               away at the fringes of the Masters' galactic empire.

2002           Destruction of Mars Base Sara.  Lisa Hayes's fiance,
               Carl Riber, is killed.  Lisa turns 17.

               Development of the reconfigurable Veritech Fighter.

               On Tirol, Cabell "creates" Rem by cloning tissue
               from Zor.  The Masters, too, have their way with
               Zor's body, cloning tissue for their own purposes
               and extracting from the scientist's residual
               cellular memories a vision of Earth--destination of
               the fortress and Protoculture matrix he has stolen
               and spirited from their grasp.

2003-08        Rise of the United Earth Defense Council under the
               leadership of Senator Russo, Admiral Hayes, T.R.
               Edwards, and others.

               Roy Fokker and Claudia Grant become fast friends.

               Lisa Hayes is assigned to the SDF-1 project on
               Macross, under the command of Captain Henry Gloval.

               Tommy Luan is elected mayor of Macross City.

2009           On the SDF-1's launch day, the Zentraedi (after a
               ten-year search for Zor's battle fortress and the
               missing Protoculture matrix) appear and attack
               Macross Island.  The fortress makes an accidental
               hyperspace jump to Pluto, carrying the island and
               its population of 75,000 along with it.  15-year-
               old Lynn-Minmei and 19-year-old Rick Hunter are
               caught up in the spacefold.

               Lisa Hayes turns 24.

2009-11        The SDF-1 battles its way back to Earth with Macross
               City rebuilt inside its massive holds.

               Rick Hunter joins the RDF.

               The Battle at Saturn's Rings.  The Daedalus maneuver
               is executed to destroy the Zentraedi ship commanded
               by Commander Zeril.  Rick Hunter's first mission.

               Breetai calls up the Botoru Battalion, led by the
               notorious Khyron the Backstabber.

               The Battle at Mars Base Sara.

               Rick Hunter receives the Titanium Medal of Valor and
               earns the rank of lieutenant after rescuing Lisa
               Hayes from Base Sara before the destruction of the
               base.  Ben Dixon and Maximilian Sterling are
               assigned to Rick's newly formed Vermillion VT
               Squadron.

               Lynn-Minmei is voted "Miss Macross."

               While on a recon mission, Rick, Lisa, Max, and Ben
               are captured by Breetai and interrogated by the
               Zentraedi commander in chief, Dolza.

               Minmei has her debut.

               The Earth forces learn of the term "Protoculture"
               for the first time.

               Under Dolza's orders, Azonia takes command of the
               mission to retrieve Zor's battle-fortress.
			
               Rick, Lisa, Ben, and Max discover that the Zentraedi
               are a race of clones and can be reduced to human
               size.  They commandeer an alien battlepod and return
               to the SDF-1.

			
               Three "Micronized" Zentraedi spies--Rico, Konda, and
               Bron--are successfully inserted into the SDF-1 and
               meets Sammie Porters, Kim Young, and Vanessa Leeds.

               The SDF-1 lands on Earth.

               Captain Gloval submits his report on the dis-
               appearance of the battle fortress to the United
               Earth Defense Council and requests that the 75,000
               survivors to be relocated from the ship.

2012           Lynn-Minmei is reunited with her cousin, Lynn-Kyle.

               Rick Hunter is seriously wounded during a Zentraedi
               attack on the fortress.

               Rick turns 22.

               Roy Fokker is killed in combat during a raid led by
               Miriya.  Rick Hunter is promoted to the rank of
               Skull Leader.

               After almost six months on Earth, the SDF-1 is
               ordered to leave by the UEDC and is refused to
               relocate the 70,000 survivors inside the ship.

               The Battle in the North Ontario Quadrant.  Zentraedi
               Quadrono Leader Miriya Parino is infiltrated as a
               spy aboard the SDF-1.  Ben Dixon is killed in
               combat.

               Breetai resumes command of the mission to retrieve
               Zor's battlefortress.

               Small White Dragon is aired.

               The three Zentraedi spies return to Breetai's ship.

               The Minmei Cult has its beginnings aboard the
               flagship of the Zentraedi fleet.

               Lynn-Kyle founds a peace movement aboard the SDF-1.

               During an attack on the fortress, Rico, Bron, and
               Konda lead a group of defectors to the battle
               fortress.

               Asylum is granted to the three Zentraedi spies and
               their defectors.



2012 (cont)    With Max's veritech escorts, Lisa Hayes returns to
               Earth to try to persuade the UEDC to have peace
               negotiations with the Zentraedi.  Kyron becomes
               aware of the convoy and attacks.  Rick Hunter comes
               to the rescue in the newly armored veritech
               prototype, never been tested in combat before.

               Max Sterling and Miriya Parino battle it out at a
               video arcade game and then at the park.

               Max and Miriya's wedding in space.

               Exedore arrives aboard the SDF-1 for peace talks.

               The Zentraedi's main fleet appears in Earthspace
               and lays waste to much of the planet.  At Alaska
               Base, the Grand Cannon is destroyed and Admiral
               Hayes is killed.

               Rick Hunter falls into an early re-entry of Earth's
               atmosphere during the battle and rescue's Lisa Hayes
               from Alaska base where she was assigned to a new
               position by her father.  Unknown to Rick and Lisa,
               T.R. Edwards is left behind in the base and swears
               for personal vengeance against them.

               The severely damaged SDF-1 defeats Dolza's armada
               of five million ships with an assist from Lynn-
               Minmei's voice, and returns to the ravaged Earth.

               Captain Gloval is promoted to the rank of admiral.

               Lisa Hayes and Rick Hunter both are promoted to the
               rank of captain.

               A period of reconstruction begins (2012-14), with
               Humans and Zentraedis working side-by-side.

               The Robotech Masters lose confidence in their race
               of warrior clones and begin a mass pilgrimage
               through interstellar space to Earth to recapture
               Zor's Protoculture matrix.

2013           Dana Sterling and Bowie Grant (son of Claudia
               Grant's brother, Vince) are born.

               Captain Lisa Hayes is promoted to admiral.

               A factory satellite is captured from Commander Reno
               and folded to Earthspace.


               Dr. Lang and Professor Lazlo Zand begin work on a
               secret project involving artificial intelligence. 
               Zand takes a peculiar interest in Dana Sterling
               after undergoing a Protoculture mindboost.

2014           Kyron makes a surprise appearance and holds Minmei
               and Kyle hostage in exchange for the battle
               fortress.  Rick Hunter successfully leads his
               veritech squadron in operation "Star-saver."

               Admiral Lisa Hayes is given the command of the newly
               built SDF-2 to go on a mission to Tirol.

               The Destruction of New Macross, the SDF's 1 and 2,
               along with Khyron's forces, Henry Gloval, Claudia
               Grant, Sammie Porter, Vanessa Leeds, and Kim Young
               are among the casualties.  The remains of the three
               ships are buried under tons of earthen debris
               dredged up from Lake Gloval.

               End of the First Robotech War.

2015-17        Zentraedi Malcontent Uprisings in the Southlands
               Control Zone (South America).  Jonathan Wolff comes
               to the attention of Commander Max Sterling.

               Captain Rick Hunter is promoted to the rank of
               admiral.

               Commander Max Sterling is promoted to the rank of
               Skull Leader.

               The Robotech Expeditionary Force is formed, for the
               express purpose of journeying to Tirol to make peace
               with the Robotech Masters.  Aboard the factory
               satellite, work begins on construction of the SDF-
               3.

               Rise of Monument City and Anatole Leonard's Army of
               the Southern Cross.

               Lynn-Minmei takes on a partner, Janice Em, at Emil
               Lang's urging.

               The Invid complete their conquest of Garuda, Praxis,
               Karbarra, and Spheris.

2020           The completion of the latest prototype Alpha VT,
               packing more armor and twice the firepower than the
               1st generation VT's, equipped with ablative shields
               and detachable augmentation pods for deepspace
               flight, and the capability to link up with the Beta
               VT--a bulkier, thin-winged variant--thereby
               extending more than double its range and occupancy
               capabilities.

               Rick Hunter and Lisa Hayes wed aboard the factory
               satellite.  Dana and Bowie are given over to the
               care of Rolf and Laura Emerson.

               The SDF-3 is launched.  Minmei and Janice are caught
               in the spacefold.

               Rick turns 29; Lisa turns 34; Dana and Bowie, 7.
               Scott Bernard, Lang's godson from the recently
               completed Mars Base, 6.

2025
(Earth actual) The Invid Regent takes Tirol.  Sickened by his
               bloodlust, the Regis leaves Optera for Praxis to
               carry on with her Genesis Pit experiments.

               The Robotech Expeditionary Force arrive in
               Fantomaspace and engages the Invid; the fortress's
               spacefold generators are damaged. (the REF is
               unaware that the fold has taken five Earth-years,
               and believe the date to be 2020.)  T.R. Edwards and
               his Ghost Squadron capture the living computer the
               Regent has left behind in Tiresia's Royal Hall. 
               Tiresians Cabell and Rem inform the Plenipotentiary
               Council that the Robotech Masters are on their way
               to Earth.

               The Sentinels, comprised of Praxians, Garudans,
               Karbarrans, Haydonites, Spherisians, and
               Perytonians, formed to liberate planets recently
               conquered and occupied by the Invid horde, arrive
               in Tirolspace on the ship Farrago requesting aid in
               their cause.

               Tesla, Master Scientist to the Invid Regent, is a
               prisoner aboard the Farrago.

               The Zentraedi contingent of the REF agree to be
               returned to full size (except for Exedore) to mine
               Fantoma for monopole ore to fuel a new fleet of
               warships.

               The Hunters, Grants, Sterlings, and others leave
               Fantomaspace for Karbarra aboard the Farrago.

               On Earth, Senator Wyatt Moran and the commanders of
               the Army of the Southern Cross consolidate their
               power and take control of the Supreme Council.

               Dana and Bowie grow up under the care of the
               Emersons.

2026	
(Earth actual) Karbarra is liberated.  Tesla and Burak form a
               curious partnership.  The Sentinels' ship Farrago
               is destroyed and the Groundbased Mobile Unit is
               stranded on Praxis shortly after the Regis's
               leavetaking for Haydon IV.  Wolff, Janice Em, Burak,
               and Tesla reach the only fold module available in
               orbit around Praxis and fold towards Fantoma.  The
               rest of the Sentinels are in the remaining veritechs
               without power in orbit around the dying planet
               Praxis. Death of Baldan I.

               T.R. Edwards holds secret talks with the Regent,
               and begins a personal campaign to capture Lynn-
               Minmei.

               An Invid simulagent in the guise of the Regent is
               sent to Tirol for "peace talks" and reveals to the
               REF that the Farrago has been destroyed.  The
               Sentinels are presumed dead.

               Wolff and Janice Em return to Tirol and is refused
               a rescue ship to Praxis to pick up the surviving
               Sentinels.  The Invid Tesla murders the simulagent
               sent to Tirol by the Regent.

               Wolff "steals" the prototype warship, the SDF-7,
               and arrives just in time to pick up the Sentinels
               before the destruction of Praxis.  They continue on
               to Garuda.

               T.R. Edwards begins to hold sway over the REF's
               Plenipotentiary Council.  Wolff is accused of murder
               and piracy.  Control of the Fantoma mining
               operations goes to Edwards.

               Rick, Lisa, Rem and Karen are captured on Garuda
               and are interrogated and exposed to the planets
               fatal atmosphere.  Mistaken as Zor, Rem is taken to
               Optera for the Regent.  Later, Rem is sent as a gift
               to the Regis on Haydon IV.  With Garuda liberated,
               Rick, Lisa, and Karen are rescued and are rushed to
               Haydon IV for the only medication available in the
               known galaxy.

               The Valivarre, under the command of Breetai, leaves
               Tirolspace (unauthorized) with the much needed
               monopole ore for the fleet's warships.  The SDF
               class warships Tokugawa and Jutland are sent after
               Breetai.

2027
(Earth actual) The Sentinels arrive at Haydon IV shortly after the
               Regis's leavetaking, and "surrender" to the
               occupying Invid troops.  Rem learns he is actually
               a clone of Zor.  Upon the liberation of Haydon IV,
               Janice Em reveals herself to be an android.  Rem is
               rescued and Sarna is killed.  Haydon IV is
               liberated.

               The prototype SDF-7 is christened the Ark Angel.

               The Valivarre reaches Haydon IV and the Sentinels
               are updated on the situation on Tirol.

               The Valivarre returns to Tirolspace escorted by the
               SDF class cruisers Tokugawa and Jutland after the
               Sentinels decision to continue their mission to
               Spheris instead of returning to Tirol to deal with
               the threat of Edwards to the Plenipotentiary
               Council.  Edwards loses his grip on the council
               after troops sent out to hunt down the Zentraedi
               side with them instead.  Wolff, Breetai, and Grant
               clear the Sentinels of all charges.

               Max and Miriya remain behind on Haydon IV to help
               in the rebuilding of the planet.

               Baldan II is "shaped" by Teal.

               A new SDF-7 class warship under the command of Major
               Carpenter leaves Tirol for Earth and is presumed
               lost when the ship fails to report in to the SDF-3.

               Edwards and his Ghost Riders flee Tirol on a
               hijacked SDF-7 class ship for Optera, taking Lynn-
               Minmei and the awakened Invid living computer from
               Tiresia with them.  Lynn-Kyle is killed by Edwards
               during his attempt to save Minmei.

               Spheris is liberated.  Tesla leaves the Ark Angel
               for Optera to have it out with the Regent.

               Aurora Sterling is born on Haydon IV.

               Aurora sends a telepathic message to her sister Dana
               in warning of the spores from the Flowers of Life.

2028
(Earth actual) Jonathan Wolff leaves for Earth on a retrofitted
               SDF-7 class ship and has also failed to report in
               to the SDF-3 and is presumed lost.

               The Tokugawa launches for Haydon IV under the
               command of General Vince Grant.  Exedore accompanies
               him with the council's peace proposal for the
               Regent.

               Edwards arrives on Optera.  Tesla is chased off.

               Breetai and the Valivarre leave for Optera.

               The Sentinels move against Peryton.

               The Valivarre arrives at Optera and a battle breaks
               out between the Zentraedi and the Invid.  Breetai
               and the Regent die together.

               Tesla and Burak sacrifice themselves to end the
               planet's curse.

2029
(Earth actual) The Ark Angel, Tokugawa, and the Karbarran ship
               Tracialle enters Opteraspace to accompany the
               Valivarre, now under the command of Kazianna Hesh,
               in the Battle for Optera.  Edwards' SDF-7 and the
               Tokugawa are destroyed and all survivors are picked
               up by the Valivarre.  The Ark Angel leads a direct
               assault against the Invid home hive,  Where  Edwards
               assumes control of the Invid.

               Edwards reveals the secret to Rick and Lisa the
               personal vendetta he has on them.

               Janice, in the guise of Minmei grabs Edwards, and
               both hurl in to the molten flames of the dying
               Genesis Pit.  The home hive is destroyed and Minmei
               is rescued.  Arla-non, and Teal both die.

               End of the Sentinels' War.

               Optera slowly heals from the critical wounds the
               Invid have made on it during their stay.

               Dr. Lang makes a series of shattering discoveries
               about the spacefold generators his teams have used
               in Carpenter and Wolff's ships.

               Ark Angel begins a slow return to Tirol.  The
               Tracialle returns the remaining Sentinels to their
               home planets.


               Breetai's son, Drannin, is born to the Zentraedi
               Kazianna Hesh.

2030
(Earth actual) The Ark Angel arrives at Tiresia.  Lang briefs the
               council and Expeditionary Force members on his
               discoveries.

               Roy Hunter is born in Tiresia.  The REF and
               Karbarrans begin work on the main fleet ships.

               Lang's Robotech teams develop an integrated system
               of body armor and reconfigurable cycles, known as
               Cyclones.

               A new protoculture hand weapon is developed, the
               Mars Gallant H90 blaster.

2031
(Earth actual) Dana Sterling and Bowie Grant turn 18, graduate from
               the Academy, and are assigned to the 15th Alpha
               Tactical Armored Corps, which includes Sean
               Phillips, Angelo Dante, and Louie Nichols.

               The Robotech Masters arrive in Earthspace to
               retrieve Zor's Protoculture matrix found in the SDF-
               1 for the survival of their race and the Second
               Robotech War begins.

               Dana Sterling is promoted to 2nd Lieutenant after
               ex-c.o. Sean Phillips was reduced to the rank of
               private.

               Communications with Space Station Liberty, the only
               comline to the REF, has been cut.

               Battle at Fokker Aerospace Base.  Dana is promoted
               to 1st lieutenant after mobilizing the 15th (without
               authorization) and leaving their post to be a back
               up contingency to the forces already being defeated
               at the base.  Dana has her first encounter with the
               red Bioroid.

               Dana, Bowie, and Angelo volunteer for the mission
               to re-establish communications with Space Station
               Liberty.

               Dana and Bowie sees Zor Prime for the first time at
               the site of the SDF-1.  They are discovered and
               Bowie is captured.


2031 (cont)    Dana leads an unauthorized rescue mission, disguised
               as a routine night patrol, for Bowie.

               Louie Nichols of the 15th discovers a weakness in
               the Robotech ships and a mission is prepared.  The
               Robotech Masters flagship is crippled and crashes
               near Monument city.

               The Army of the Southern Cross converges on the
               fallen Robotech ship but all actions are harmless
               against the ship.  Lieutenant Marie Crystal of the
               Tactical Armored Space Corp is wounded in battle
               and is rescued by Sean Phillips.

               The 15th is ordered to enter the alien ship for a
               recon mission.  The squad is separated and Bowie
               meets Musica.  Dana and Louie discovers that the
               inhabitants of the alien ships are not androids but
               clones.  With the 15th together again, Dana captures
               a Bioroid and is examined with the utmost care by
               Professor Zand.

               Another ship from the Robotech Masters' fleet
               descends to Earth and lifts its' fallen comrade back
               to orbit.

               Major Carpenter's ships arrive at Earth and futilely
               tries to engage the Robotech Masters but are them-
               selves obliterated.  Survivors are picked up by the
               15th.

               Zor Prime is introduced to the 15th.  Unknown to
               him and the 15th, he is used as a spy for the
               Masters.

               Musica rejects her chosen mate Karno.

2032
(Earth actual) The new Armored Jet Attack Copter VT's are produced
               and readied for the 1st attack wave against the
               alien ships.  The attack wave is crippled badly and
               takes refuge on Moon Base ALUCE.

               On Earth, Dana and Bowie go to the site of the SDF-
               1 and witness the blossoming of the Flower of Life
               in the SDF-1's reflex engines.

               A second wave is prepared and General Emerson is to
               be the commanding officer of the mission giving a
               chance to the survivors of the first wave to return
               to Earth with their wounded.

2032 (cont)    Louie Nichols' Visual Trace Firing System is
               integrated into the VT's weapons systems without his
               consent.

               The ATAC's are ordered to break through the alien
               flag ship's defenses and attempt to destroy it from
               the inside.  Zor, now under the power of the
               Robotech Masters, turns on the 15th and tries to
               capture the squad but the 15th scatters and
               separately explores the entire ship.  Bowie finds
               Musica again and both fall in love.  Eventually,
               the 15th is captured but are freed by Musica.  Zor
               is taken to the Memory Management Lab to be
               reprogrammed.  The 15th bursts in and interrupts
               the process during the reinstatement of his
               memory.  Zor destroys the core of the ship's power
               causing the destruction of the ship and the 15th
               leaves the alien ship with their hovertanks with
               Musica.  Somehow, Zor manages to escape unscathed. 
               The Robotech Masters transfer to a different ship
               to continue their mission for the matrix.

               General Emerson's flagship is destroyed and he,
               Lieutenant Crystal, and Lieutenant Dennis Brown are
               taken prisoner by the Robotech Masters.

               Nova Satori of the Global Military Police orders
               the arrest and apprehension of the "alien" Musica
               for questioning but is unable to find her.  Bowie
               has taken her to the site of the SDF-1 to see the
               Flowers of Life.  The 15th follows their trail, in
               turn Nova follows the 15th, and in turn again Zor
               follows Nova.  Zor sees the Flowers of Life and his
               memory reawakens and he becomes the original Zor.

               The Robotech Masters bargain with Emerson's party
               for Zor and Musica to be returned to the Masters.

               The Masters flagship descends towards the site of
               the SDF-1, hoping to retrieve the matrix before it
               mutates into the Flower of Life, then rendering the
               matrix useless. 

               All forces of the planet join at Monument City for
               a final battle against the Masters.  In result,
               Monument City is leveled and there are no survivors. 
               Commander Leonard and staff are also killed.

               The Masters are killed by Zor and Dana has a vision
               of the coming of the Invid, telepathically commun-
               icated to her by her sister, Aurora.

2032 (cont)    The 15th, Marie, Dennis, and the remaining clone
               population of the Masters leave the doomed ship in
               transports and lands near the SDF-1 site.

               Zor Prime's attempt at destroying the Masters'
               flagship results in the loosing of the Flowers of
               Life from the Protoculture matrix concealed within
               the spacefold drives of the buried SDF-1; spores
               cover the planet and the Flower takes root, alerting
               the Regis's sensor nebula.

               General Emerson, Octavia (one of Musica's
               Triumverate sisters), Zor Prime, and Lazlo Land
               dies.

               End of the Second Robotech War.

               Max, Miriya, and Aurora Sterling arrive on Tirol
               from Haydon IV.

               The Invid "disappear" from Tirol's corner of the
               galaxy.  It is assumed that the Regis has begun her
               move against Earth.

               The Mars Veritech Group leaves Tirol with 18-year-
               old Scott Bernard aboard.

               Jonathan Wolff's ship returns to Earth.  An anti-
               Invid underground is established before the Regis
               arrives.  Dana commandeers Wolff's ship after the
               drives are retrofitted with a device perfected by
               former 15th ATAC whiz-kid, Louie Nichols.

               The Robotech factory satellite returns to Earthspace
               from Tirol.

               Optera is fully seeded with the Flowers of Life and
               given over to the homeless Praxians, who rename the
               planet "New Praxis."  The Flowers become the crop
               for a new Protoculture matrix created by Rem, who
               has managed to tap his progenitor's--Zor's--
               memories.

2033
(Earth actual) The Invid Regis arrives.  Her newly hatched army of
               soldiers and mecha destroy the factory satellite and
               easily defeat Earth's depleted defenses.  Hives and
               farms are set up worldwide, and some Terran captives
               are forced to work in labor camps, harvesting
               Flowers and processing nutrient for use in the
               Regis's Terror Weapons and battlecraft.

2034			
(Earth actual) Admiral Lisa Hayes resumes command of the SDF-3.

               Arrival of Dana Sterling on Tirol.  With her are
               Bowie Grant, Sean Phillips, Angelo Dante, Musica and
               Allegra, and some of the Masters' clones.

               Shadow Fighters and neutron "S" missiles are
               developed by the REF for the assault against Earth. 
               Instantaneous spacefold becomes a reality for the
               main-fleet ships.

               Arrival and defeat of the Mars Attack Group sent by
               the REF.

               Scott's fiancee, Marlene Rush, dies with the Mars
               Group flagship.

               Scott Bernard crashlands on Earth, but continues
               his mission:  To reach the Regis's central hive
               complex, code named Reflex Point.

               Upon crossing a desert on his Cyclone, he meets
               Rand, who has just discovered the fallen flagship
               from the Mars Group and was joy riding on a newly
               acquired Cyclone when Invid scouts appeared.  Scott
               engages the scouts and destroys them easily with the
               Cyclone's configurable armor.

               Scott and Rand approach Laacko City where they pick
               up Annie.  The population of the city turned them
               over to the Invid Shock Troopers, but with the help
               of a mysterious red Cyclone rider, the Shock
               Troopers were dispatched.  The red Cyclone rider
               disappears.

               Scott and company enter a dust-ridden town and
               attends a club where they see and meet the famous
               singer Yellow Dancer.  A brawl breaks out and Scott
               ends it quickly with a shot from his blaster.  Here
               they meet the mysterious red Cyclone rider, Rook
               Bartley, former of the bike gang, the Blue Angels. 
               Her, Lancer (a male robotech freedom fighter in the
               guise of a female singer, Yellow Dancer), and Lunk
               (a former robotech bio-maintenance engineer) join
               Scott on his journey to Reflex Point.  Lunk provides
               Scott with a fully maintained and operational Alpha
               fighter.

               Scott's band of freedom fighters discover that the
               Invid can sense the presence of Protoculture
               emanations.
2034 (cont)    Scott's team makes a pit stop at Norristown.  Using
               a Yellow Dancer Concert as a diversion, the team
               makes away with a truck load of canisters of
               Protoculture--fuel for their Robotech mecha.

               One night, Rook returns to her home town to settle
               a dispute which has troubled her ever since she
               left.  Unknowingly to her, Rand is curious and
               follows.  She has a showdown with the leader of the
               Red Snakes who have harassed the town ever since
               her ex-boyfriend--Romy--had disbanded the Blue
               Angels.

               The team approaches Roca Negra.  Lunk tries to
               fulfill a promise to a friend by returning a book
               to his father, Alfred Nader, an intelligent man who
               spoke out against the Invid slavery, was killed by
               the townspeople in fear of him endangering the town.

               The team encounters Colonel Wolff and his anti-Invid
               underground.  For months, Wolff has been giving
               Robotech soldiers to the Invid in exchange for
               canisters of Protoculture.  Realizing his grave
               mistake in his actions, Wolff, in Scott's VT, aids
               the team in a short skirmish with the Invid and is
               mortally wounded.  Colonel Jonathan Wolff dies.

               The Regis performs clonings in Genesis Pits (similar
               to those on Praxis) to acquire the ultimate form her
               Invid should take for their new life on Earth.

               Scott, Rand, and Annie, while on a scouting mission,
               discover one of the Regis's Genesis Pits.  During
               an earthquake, the Genesis Pit is destroyed with all
               the life forms evolved in it.

               The simulagent Ariel (cloned from a female human
               body found in a wreckage of the Mars Division
               flagship) is birthed and is planted in the route
               Scott's team is heading.

               The team approach Point K, a rendezvous for all
               surviving units of Scott's invasion force,
               consisting of close to a thousand veritechs, ground
               units, assault mecha, supplies, and ammunitions. 
               But instead of finding a base, they find a graveyard
               of ships.  The Invid had already obliterated all
               forces at Point K.  The team enters the area in
               search for ordinance but Scott goes in to seclusion. 
               Rand and Rook scout the area and finds Ariel at a
               nearby town.  Ariel, similar to a newborn child,
               has not learned to speak.  Rand and Rook assumes her
               to be in shock.  Lunk and Lancer discover two
               operational Alpha fighters and one intact Beta
               fighter among the wreckage.  The group comes
               together to report their findings and Ariel is given
               the name Marlene by Scott for she is in the likeness
               of his deceased fiancee, Marlene Rush.

2034 (cont)    The team approaches a mountain range and is quickly
               warned by the nearby town, Deguello, that the ranges
               are constantly patrolled because of the Invid
               fortress built there.  A map of the secret routes
               to pass through the patrols were sold, but through
               Lancer's old time girlfriend, Carla, she reveals to
               him that the maps are fake and the citizens who buy
               and follow the map were going to their dooms.

               To attack the fortress, the Living Brain must be
               destroyed to prevent the detection of incoming
               Robotech mecha.  Rand and Annie volunteer and
               successfully deactivates the Brain and the fortress
               is destroyed nearly trapping Scott and his veritech
               inside before the explosion.

               The Regis loses contact with the simulagent Ariel
               in result of interacting with humans and their
               emotions.

               Rand, caught in a sandstorm, inhales pollen from
               the Flower of Life and learns of the real reason
               why the Regis is on Earth.

               The team enters a jungle forest region once
               controlled by the Zentraedi during the Malcontent
               Uprisings.  Micronian slaves were used then and the
               inhabitants now have been reduced to primitive
               levels.  Lancer, mistaken as a woman, is kidnapped. 
               The team rescues Lancer and rids the valley of Invid
               Shock Troopers.  They make rafts to go down stream
               past an Invid hive but Annie stays behind as a
               jungle queen.

               Scott's team enters an old abandoned city but are
               followed by the Invid.  After taking refuge in an
               old subway, the Invid caves in the subway exits in
               hopes of burying the Robotech rebels.  Upon escap-
               ing, Annie rejoins the team.

               Prince Corg and Princess Sera are transmutated to
               human form and are ordered to go  out and seek the
               simulagent Ariel for the cause of her disfunction.


2034 (cont)    The team finds a few left over naval ships from the
               Second Robotech War to cross the Gulf of Mexico. 
               They set a trap for the Invid patrols and Rook is
               wounded in the battle.

               The team takes a rest at a once beautiful beach
               resort.  Lancer has a run in with the Invid Princess
               Sera and reports to Scott that the Invid are using
               human pilots for their mecha.  Sera is disturbed by
               her first encounter with the human emotions in her
               created by Lancer.

               Sera prepares an ambush for the rebels in a high
               mountain-pass near Baja California.  Upon seeing
               Lancer's face, Sera hesitates a moment too soon to
               give the order to fire and the rebels escape. Sera
               encounters Ariel for the first time.

               Scott's team encounters one of the ships and its
               crew from Major Carpenter's defeated fleet from
               Tirol.  The ship and crew boldly sacrifice them-
               selves in destroying an Invid hive.  All crew are
               presumed dead.

               The team enters the Rocky Mountains and finds the
               city of Denver (but really a secret underground
               shelter named Delta Six) buried beneath the ice. 
               They resupply and explore the city.  Scott and
               Marlene fall in love.  While he searches for the
               rebels, Corg discovers them in the city and attacks. 
               The team successfully escapes and self-destructs the
               power center in the city and buries the city once
               again.  Corg encounters Ariel for the first time.

               The team holds a surprise birthday party for Annie.

               The team runs into Dusty Ayres, a human specimen
               the Invid used to experiment on, replacing his
               entire right side with Protoculture-generated organs
               without the use of any anesthetics, while his
               friends stood by and watched.  He wages war on all
               Robotech soldiers and Scott rounds up a posse to
               hunt for him until the Invid attacks.  With some
               encouragement from Rook, Dusty aids Scott in the
               battle and is killed.

               The liberation of the city of Mannattan (formerly
               New York City).  Sera encounters Ariel again and
               asks her why she hasn't reported to the Regis. 
               Ariel is ignorant to the fact that she is an Invid.


2035
(Earth actual) The Jupiter attack wing arrives in Earthspace and
               is defeated.  Photojournalist Sue Graham updates
               Scott and his team on the situation with the REF
               main fleet.  Shadow Fighters are introduced.  The
               Synchro cannon is destroyed.  Graham sees an Invid
               with the body of a human.  Marlene and the rebel
               team discovers she is an Invid.  Sue Graham dies.

               The REF main-fleet ships (Saturn Group) are folded
               from Tirol to Earth under the command of General
               Reinhardt.  The attack against Reflex Point
               commences in space and on ground.  Scott's team join
               forces with the ground troops and the Shadow
               Fighters make up the main attack group in space.

               The SDF-3 fails to appear in Earthspace.  Rick turns
               40 (or 45 in chronological years); Lisa turns 45 (or
               50).

               Marlene leads Scott and his team in to the home hive
               to speak with the Regis.

               Scott battles with Corg and is shot down.  Rand is
               wounded also shot down by Corg.  Scott returns in
               the Beta fighter and kills Corg.

               Upon seeing the REF defense lines crumbling,
               Reinhardt orders the launch of the neutron "S" 
               missiles.  Upon seeing this threat, the Regis and
               her children take leave of the planet in the form
               of a phoenix of mindstuff, annihilating the
               remaining orbiting REF ships and its crews in the
               process.

               Upon falling in love with Lancer, Sera remains
               behind on Earth.  Marlene also remains behind.

               End of the Third Robotech War.

               During Yellow Dancer's final concert, Lancer reveals
               his true gender and identity.

               Scott Bernard, in a salvaged Alpha-Beta fighter,
               leaves his past, his friends, and the Earth behind
               to return to Tirol to begin a search for the missing
               or lost SDF-3 battle fortress.

               On Haydon IV, Veidt and Exedore are present at the
               reawakening of the planet's Awareness.  Max and his
               family are also on-planet.  Cabell is on Tirol.

2035 (cont)    The arrival of Scott Bernard on Tiresia.  Scott
               informs the Plenipotentiary Council the results of
               the Third Robotech War.  Also informing them of the
               SDF-3's failure to arrive.

               Aboard the Ark Angel, which has been spared the fate
               of the rest of the main-fleet ships, Scott Bernard
               and Vince and Jean Grant commence a search for the
               missing fortress.

               The saga continues...
 
Downloaded from Just Say Yes. 2 lines, More than 500 files online!
         Full access on first call. 415-922-2008 CASFA 

 
 
 
  Another file downloaded from:   
 
         !
        -$-             & the Temple of the Screaming Electron
         !    *                    Walnut Creek, CA
   +    /^   |
   !    | |//^  _^_     2400/1200/300 baud  (415) 935-5845  
  /^  /   @ |  /_-_            Jeff Hunter, Sysop
  |@ _| @     @|- - -|                                     
  |  | |    /^ |  _  |                  - - - - - - - - - * 
  |___/____|_|_|_(_)_|       Aaaaaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!   /   
 
       Specializing in conversations, E-Mail, obscure information,
   entertainment, the arts, politics, futurism, thoughtful discussion, 
          insane speculation, and wild rumours. An ALL-TEXT BBS.
 
                         "Raw data for raw minds." 
 
