From: pjconley@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (Pat J Conley)
Newsgroups: rec.arts.anime
Subject: ROBOTECH Chronology reposted and edited
Date: 30 Nov 1992 15:37:18 GMT
Message-ID: <1fdcfeINNou8@uwm.edu>
Organization: Computing Services Division, University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee
Lines: 1526

                 ROBOTECH CHRONOLOGY(1999-2056)

1171a.l. Zor is born on Tirol.

1256a.l. Quadrant exploration by the Tiresian techno-voyager
         dubbed by Zor, the Azstraph--the Venture.

1520a.l. The Azstraph enters the Tzuptum system and inserts
         itself into orbit around Optera.  Zor encounters the
         Flower of Life, makes contact with the Invid, and
         seduces the secrets of the Flower from the Queen
         Mother, the Regis.

1697a.l. The Azstraph returns to Tirol.  Zor begins to
         experiment with the Flower specimens he has brought
         with him from Optera.

1724a.l. Zor creates the first of a race of clones, meant to 
         survive the high-G situations on Fantoma in order to 
         mine ore for his experiments.  This first clone(Exedore)
         was regarded as a failure.

1755a.l. Zor conjures Protoculture from the Flower and
         eventually falls victim to the Compulsion placed
         upon him by the Tiresian Council of Elders.  Origin
         of the Cult of the Three-in-One and ascendancy of
         the Robotech Masters.  Fall of the Royal Hall, as
         the period known as the Great Transition commences.

1920a.l. Aeon "Robotech" begins.  Development of the spacefold
         drive systems for space travel. Creation of Tirol's
         clone population and neural reprogramming of the
         Zentraedi miner giants.

88a.r.  The complete defoliation of Optera by the Zentraedi.

157a.r. Consolidation of the empire of the Robotech Masters.
        The Invid, after a burst of monocellular reproduction,
        declare war on the Robotech Masters.

566a.r. Zor's voyages deliver him to Haydon IV, where he has
        a profound encounter with the planetoid's artificial
        sentience, the Awareness, and realizes that Optera
        was the last source of the Flower of Life.  Zor
        receives a vision of the Invid transmutation and
        realizes what he must do.

570a.r  Zor designs and builds the starship that will come
        to be called SDF-1 to carry out his Flower of Life
        reseeding program(hoping to return the Flower to
        the planet it had originated from, Earth),and
        backed by a group of loyal Zentraedi, begins his
        "quiet rebellion" against the Masters.

575a.r. Zentraedi commander-in-chief Dolza forms an uneasy
        alliance with Zor, who has by now become hopelessly
        addicted to the dried leaves of the Flower.

580a.r. Zor's clandestine seedings attempts take him to
        Peryton, Karbarra, Praxis, Garuda, and Spheris.

671a.r. Zor steals the single exsisting Protoculture matrix
        from Tiresia and conceals it within the spacefold
        drives of the SDF-1.  The fortress, with its
        skeleton crew of loyal Zentraedi, is folded from
        Tirol's corner of the galaxy.

699a.r  During a seeding attempt on Pertyon, the Invid
        catch up with Zor's position and begins a raid.
        In the threat of the battle fortress falling into
        the Invid's posession, Zor sends his battle fortress
        to Earth, manned by a skeleton crew of Zentreadis
        loyal to him.  Zor is killed and the Zentraedi
        Breetai is wounded during the same raid.  Commander-
        in-chief Dolza orders Commander Reno to return Zor's
        body to the Robotech Masters on Tirol.

700a.r. Interstellar war with the Invid, whose homeworld,
        Optera, had been defoliated by the Zentraedi,
        continues to chip away at the fringes of the
        Masters' galactic empire.

1999    Alien spaceship crash-lands on Earth, effectively
        ending almost a decade of Global Civil War.
        Originally called "The Visitor," the ship is dubbed
        SuperDimensional Fortress I--the SDF-1.

        Dr. Emil Lang, after an initial recon of the ship
        (in the company of Roy Fokker, Henry Gloval, T.R.
        Edwards, and others), begins to unravel the secrets
        of an extraterrestrial science known as Robotech.

        Macross Island becomes the focal point of Robotechnology;
        and reconstruction commences on the SDF-1.

2001    Lang and his techs develop the Destroids

        Future Sentinals, Karen Penn and Jack Baker are born on
        Earth

2002    Destruction of Mars Base Sara.  Lisa Hayes's fiance,
        Carl Riber, is killed.  Lisa turns 17.

        Development of the reconfigurable Veritech Fighter.
        On Tirol, Cabell "creates" Rem by cloning tissue
        from Zor.  The Masters, too, have their way with
        Zor's body, cloning tissue for their own purposes
        and extracting from the scientist's residual
        cellular memories a vision of Earth--destination of
        the fortress and Protoculture matrix he has stolen
        and spirited from their grasp.

2003-08 Rise of the United Earth Defense Council under the
        leadership of Senator Russo, Admiral Hayes, T.R.
        Edwards, and others.

        Roy Fokker and Claudia Grant become fast friends.

        Lisa Hayes is assigned to the SDF-1 project on
        Macross, under the command of Captain Henry Gloval.

        Tommy Luan is elected mayor of Macross City.

        Formation of the Robotech Defense Force.

2009    On the SDF-1's launch day, the Zentraedi(after a
        ten-year search for Zor's battle fortress and the
        missing Protoculture matrix)appear and attack
        Macross Island.  The fortress makes an accidental
        hyperspace jump to Pluto, carrying the island and
        its population of 75,000 along with it.  15-year-old
        Lynn-Minmei and 19-year-old Rick Hunter are caught
        up in the spacefold.

        The SDF-1 emerges from fold space and the Fold 
        engines have disappeared.  Dr. Lang also discovers
        that the main gun cannot be fired, for the conection
        that was the fold generators is gone, he does however,
        discover the modular transformation

        Lisa Hayes turns 24.

2009-11 The SDF-1 battles its way back to Earth with Macross
        City rebuilt inside its massive holds.

        The Zentraedi locate the SDF-1 in orbit around Pluto
        and fold to capture it.  During the battle, the SDF-1
        is forced to use Dr. Lang's modular transformation, the
        attacking Zentraedi destroyers are destroyed by a shot 
        from the main gun.  Macross City is rebuilt again

        Rick Hunter joins the RDF.

        The Battle at Saturn's Rings.  The Daedalus Maneuver
        is executed to destroy the Zentraedi ship commanded
        by Commander Zeril.  Rick Hunter's first mission.

        Breetai calls up the Botoru Battalion, led by the
        notorious Khyron the Backstabber.

        The Battle at Mars Base Sara.

        Rick Hunter receives the Titanium Medal of Valor and
        earns the rank of lieutenant after rescuing Lisa
        Hayes from Base Sara before the destruction of the
        base.  Ben Dixon and Maximilian Sterling are
        assigned to Rick's newly formed Vermillion VT
        Squadron.

        Lynn-Minmei turns 16.

        Khyron attacks the SDF-1 without orders from Breetai.
        He manages to disable the ship, but he is recalled by
        Breetai before he can capture it.

        Breetai pulls back in favor of observation, to this end
        he dispatches Konda, Rico, and Bron to recon the SDF-1
        and intercept all transmissions.

        The Armored Veritech is developed.

        Lynn-Minmei is voted "Miss Macross".

        Rick Hunter in nearly killed defending the SDF-1 from
        Konda, Rico, and Bron's latest recon attempt.

        Breetai attempts a warning shot to demostrate the power
        of the Zentraedi, but Khyron takes matters into his own
        hands and destroys the SDF-1's radar tower.

        While on a recon mission, Rick, Lisa, and Ben are
        captured by Breetai and interrogated by the
        Zentraedi commander in chief, Dolza.

        Minmei has her debut in a concert in the Star Bowl

        The Earth forces learn of the term "Protoculture"
        for the first time.

        Max disguises his battloid as a Zentraedi
        officer and breaks his friends out of their holding
        cell.

        Breetai is relieved of active duty by Dolza for failing
        to re-capture Max, Rick, Lisa, and Ben

        Under Dolza's orders, Azonia takes command of the
        mission to retrieve Zor's battle fortress.

        Bron, Rico, and Konda volunteer(sic)to be micronised
        and inserted into the SDF-1 for further recon.  They
        have reasons other than duty for doing this.

        Rick and Lisa discover that the Zentraedi are a race of
        clones and can be reduced to human size.

        After numerous escapes, the group hides away on Azonia's
        flagship and steal an alien battlepod to return to the
        SDF-1.

        Roy Fokker rescues the stolen battlepod that Rick and the
        others escaped in.

        Rick and the others are given promtions and a hero's 
        welcome upon their return to the SDF-1.

        The "micronized" Rico, Konda, and Bron-- are successfully
        inserted in the SDF-1 and meet Sammie, Kim, and Vanessa.

2012    Azonia attempts a blockade strategy to prevent the SDF-1
        from landing on Earth, but she has to divert most of her
        fleet to prevent Khyron from annihlating the ship.

        The SDF-1 lands on Earth.

        Captain Gloval submits his report on the disappearance of
        the battle fortress to the United Earth Defense Council
        and requests that the 75,000 survivors to be relocated
        from the ship.

        Lynn-Minmei is reunited with her cousin, Lynn-Kyle.

        Rick Hunter is seriously wounded during a Zentraedi
        attack on the fortress.  Rick turns 22.

        While Rick is in a coma, he has strange dreams about
        Minmei and his growing attraction to Lisa Hayes

2013    Miriya leads a raid on the SDF-1 to find a certain ace
        pilot(Max Sterling)that Khyron claims is better than
        Miriya.  During the course of the battle, Max and Miriya
        battle inside the SDF-1.

        Roy Fokker is killed in combat during a raid led by
        Zentraedi Quadrono Leader Miriya Parino.  Rick
        Hunter is promoted to the rank of Skull Leader.

        The Battle in the North Ontario Quadrant.  Miriya Parino
        is infiltrated by 2nd officer Kazianna Hesh as a spy
        aboard the SDF-1.  She is in search of the one pilot(Max
        Sterling)that had bested her in combat and intends to
        kill him to restore her pride and honor as the
        Zentraedi's best fighter pilot.  Ben Dixon is killed in
        the overload explosion of SDF-1's barrier system.

        After almost six months on Earth, the SDF-1 is
        ordered to leave by the UEDC and is refused to
        relocate the 70,000 survivors inside the ship.

        Breetai resumes command of the mission to retrieve
        Zor's battle fortress.

        Little White Dragon is aired.

        Rick and Lisa begin a serious friendship/relationship

        The three Zentraedi spies return to Breetai's ship.

        With the return of the spies, a Minmei Cult has its
        beginnings aboard the flagship of the Zentraedi fleet.

        Lynn-Kyle founds a peace movement aboard the SDF-1.

        During an attack on the fortress, Rico, Bron, and
        Konda lead a group of defectors to the battle
        fortress.

        The Super-Armored Veritech is developed

        Asylum is granted to the three Zentraedi spies and
        their defectors.

        With Max's Veritech escorts, Lisa Hayes returns to
        Earth to try to persuade the UEDC to have peace
        negotiations with the Zentraedi.  Khyron becomes
        aware of the convoy and attacks.  Rick Hunter comes
        to the rescue in the new Super-Armored Veritech
        prototype, never been tested in combat before.

        Max Sterling and Miriya Parino battle it out at a
        video arcade game and then at the park.

        Max and Miriya wed in space.  First Human-Zendraedi
        mating.

        Dolza orders that the SDF-1 be destroyed, but the
        Zentraedi under Breetai's command mutiny

        Exedore arrives aboard the SDF-1 for peace talks.

        The Zentraedi's main fleet appears in Earthspace

        The Armored Veritech Supreme is developed and flown
        for the first(and last)time during the attack of the
        Zentraedi main fleet, by Rick, Max, Miriya, and the Skull
        Veritech Squadron.

        During the attack of the Zentraedi main fleet Commander
        Breetai joins forces with the SDF-1.  At Alaska Base, the
        Grand Cannon is fired, annihilating 20% of Dolza's fleet,
        the cannon is destroyed and Admiral Hayes is killed.

        Despite the efforts of the SDF-1 and their Zentraedi
        allies, 75% of the Earth laid to waste
        Rick Hunter falls into an early re-entry of Earth's
        atmosphere during the battle and rescue's Lisa Hayes
        from Alaska base where she was assigned to a new
        position by her father.  Unknown to Rick and Lisa,
        T.R. Edwards is left behind in the base and swears
        for personal vengeance against them.

        The severely damaged SDF-1 defeats Dolza's armada of
        five million ships with an assist from Lynn-Minmei's
        voice, and returns to the ravaged Earth.

        Captain Gloval is promoted to the rank of admiral.

        Lisa Hayes and Rick Hunter both are promoted to the
        rank of captain.  While Max and Miriya are promoted
        to lieutenant commander

        A period of reconstruction begins(2012-14), with
        Humans and Zentraedis working side-by-side.

        The Robotech Masters lose confidence in their race
        of warrior clones and begin a mass pilgrimage
        through interstellar space to Earth to recapture
        Zor's Protoculture matrix.

2014    Dana Sterling and Bowie Grant (son of Claudia
        Grant's brother, Vince) are born.

        Captain Lisa Hayes is promoted to the command of
        the SDF-2

        A factory satellite is captured from Commander Reno
        by using baby Dana as a diversion-and is folded to Earth.

        Dr. Lang and Professor Lazlo Zand begin work on a
        secret project involving artificial intelligence.
        Zand takes a peculiar interest in Dana Sterling
        after undergoing a Protoculture mindboost.

        Khyron makes a surprise appearance and holds Minmei
        and Kyle hostage in exchange for the battle
        fortress.  Rick Hunter successfully leads his
        Veritech squadron in operation "Star-saver."

        Admiral Lisa Hayes is given the command of the newly
        built SDF-2 to go on a mission to Tirol.
     
        The Destruction of New Macross, the SDF's 1 and 2,
        along with Khyron's forces, Gloval, Claudia, Sammie,
        Vanessa, and Kim are among the casualties.  The remains
        of the three ships are buried under tons of earthen
        debris dredged up from Lake Gloval.

        End of the First Robotech War.
2015-17 Zentraedi Malcontent Uprisings in the Southlands
        Control Zone(South America).  Jonathan Wolff comes
        to the attention of Commander Max Sterling.

        Captain Rick Hunter is promoted to the rank of
        admiral.

        Commander Max Sterling is given command of the famed
        Skull Squadron.

        The Robotech Expeditionary Force is formed, for the
        express purpose of journeying to Tirol to make peace
        with the Robotech Masters.  Aboard the factory
        satellite, construction begins on the SDF-3.

        Rise of Monument City and Anatole Leonard's Army of
        the Southern Cross.

        Lynn-Minmei takes on a partner, Janice Em, at Emil
        Lang's urging.

        The Invid complete their conquest of Garuda, Praxis,
        Karbarra, and Spheris.

2020    The completion of the latest prototype Alpha VT,
        packing more armor and twice the firepower than the
        1st generation VT's, equipped with ablative shields
        and detachable augmentation pods for deepspace
        flight, and the capability to link up with the Beta
        VT--a bulkier, thin-winged variant--thereby
        extending more than double its range and occupancy
        capabilities.  Prototype Alphas are tested by
        Commander Max Sterling and Private Karen Penn.

        Privates Karen Penn and Jack Baker are chosen to be
        part of the Expeditionary Force.

        Rick Hunter and Lisa Hayes wed aboard the factory
        satellite with TV coverage by Sue Graham.  Dana and Bowie
        are given over to the care of Rolf and Laura Emerson.

        The SDF-3 is launched.  Minmei and Janice are caught
        in the spacefold.

        Rick turns 29; Lisa turns 34; Dana and Bowie, 7;
        Jack and Karen turn 18; Scott Bernard, Lang's godson from
        the recently completed Mars Base, 6.

2025    The Invid Regent takes Tirol.  Sickened by his
        bloodlust, the Regis leaves Optera for Praxis to
        carry on with her Genesis Pit experiments.

        The Robotech Expeditionary Force arrive in
        Fantomaspace and engages the Invid; the fortress's
        spacefold generators are damaged(the REF is
        unaware that the fold has taken five Earth-years,
        and believe the date to be 2020).  T.R. Edwards and
        his Ghost Squadron capture the living computer the
        Regent has left behind in Tiresia's Royal Hall.
        Tiresians Cabell and Rem inform the Plenipotentiary
        Council that the Robotech Masters are on their way
        to Earth.

        Privates Karen Penn and Jack Baker are both promoted
        to lieutenant.

        The Sentinels, comprised of Praxians, Garudans,
        Karbarrans, Haydonites, Spherisians, and Perytonians,
        formed to liberate planets recently conquered and
        occupied by the Invid horde, arrive in Tirol-space
        on the ship Farrago requesting aid in their cause.

        Tesla, Master Scientist to the Invid Regent, is a
        prisoner aboard the Farrago.

        The Zentraedi contingent of the REF agree to be
        returned to full size(except for Exedore and Miriya)to
        mine Fantoma's monopole ore for a new fleet of warships.
        The Hunters, Grants, Sterlings, Jack and Karen, and
        others join the Sentinels and leave Fantomaspace for
        Karbarra aboard the Farrago.

        On Earth, Senator Wyatt Moran and the commanders of
        the Army of the Southern Cross consolidate their
        power and take control of the Supreme Council.

        Dana and Bowie grow up under the care of the
        Emersons.

2026    Karbarra is liberated.  Tesla and Burak form a
        curious partnership.  The Sentinels' ship Farrago is
        destroyed and the Groundbased Mobile Unit is
        stranded on Praxis shortly after the Regis's
        leavetaking for Haydon IV.  Wolff, Janice Em, Burak,
        and Tesla reach the only fold module available in
        orbit around Praxis and fold towards Fantoma.  The
        rest of the Sentinels are in the remaining veritechs
        without power in orbit around the dying planet
        Praxis. Death of Baldan I.

        T.R. Edwards holds secret talks with the Regent, and
        begins a personal campaign to capture Lynn-Minmei.

        An Invid simulagent in the guise of the Regent is
        sent to Tirol for "peace talks" and reveals to the
        REF that the Farrago has been destroyed.  The
        Sentinels are presumed dead.

        Wolff and Janice Em return to Tirol and is refused a
        rescue ship to Praxis to pick up the surviving
        Sentinels.  The Invid Tesla murders the simulagent
        sent to Tirol by the Regent.

        Wolff "steals" the prototype warship, the SDF-7, and
        arrives just in time to pick up the Sentinels before
        the destruction of Praxis.  They continue on to
        Garuda.

        T.R. Edwards begins to hold sway over the REF's
        Plenipotentiary Council.  Wolff is accused of murder
        and piracy.  Control of the Fantoma mining
        operations goes to Edwards.

        Rick, Lisa, Rem and Karen are captured on Garuda and
        are interrogated and exposed to the planets fatal
        atmosphere.  Mistaken as Zor, Rem is taken to Optera
        for the Regent.  Later, Rem is sent as a gift to the
        Regis on Haydon IV.  With Garuda liberated, Rick,
        Lisa, and Karen are rescued and are rushed to Haydon
        IV for the only medication available in the known
        galaxy.  The Valivarre, under the command of Breetai,
        leaves Tirolspace(unauthorized)with the much needed
        monopole ore for the fleet's warships.  The SDF-7
        class warships Tokugawa and Jutland pursue.

2027    The Sentinels arrive at Haydon IV shortly after the
        Regis's leavetaking, and "surrender" to the
        occupying Invid troops.  Rem learns he is actually a
        clone of Zor.  Upon the liberation of Haydon IV,
        Janice Em reveals herself to be an android.  Rem is
        rescued and Sarna is killed.  Haydon IV is
        liberated.

        The prototype SDF-7 is christened the Ark Angel.

        The Valivarre reaches Haydon IV and the Sentinels
        are updated on the situation on Tirol.

        The Valivarre returns to Tirolspace escorted by the
        SDF-7 class cruisers Tokugawa and Jutland after the
        Sentinels decision to continue their mission to
        Spheris instead of returning to Tirol.

        Edwards loses his grip on the council after troops sent
        out to hunt down the Zentraedi side with them instead. 
        Wolff, Breetai, and Grant clear the Sentinels of all
        charges against them.

        Miriya reveals that she is pregnant.

        Max and Miriya remain behind on Haydon IV to help in
        the rebuilding of the planet.
        Baldan II is "shaped" by Teal.

        A new SDF-7 class warship under the command of Major
        Carpenter leaves Tirol for Earth and is presumed
        lost when the ship fails to report in to the SDF-3.

        Edwards and his Ghost Riders flee Tirol on a
        hijacked SDF-7 class ship for Optera, taking Lynn-
        Minmei and the awakened Invid living computer from
        Tiresia with them.  Lynn-Kyle is killed by Edwards
        during his attempt to save Minmei.

        Spheris is liberated.  Tesla leaves the Ark Angel
        for Optera to have it out with the Regent.

        Aurora Sterling is born on Haydon IV.

        Aurora sends a telepathic message to her sister Dana
        in warning of the spores from the Flowers of Life.

2028    Jonathan Wolff leaves for Earth on a retrofitted
        SDF-7 class ship and has also failed to report in to
        the SDF-3 and is presumed lost.

        The Tokugawa launches for Haydon IV under the
        command of General Grant.  Exedore accompanies him
        with the council's peace proposal for the Regent.

        Edwards arrives on Optera.  Tesla is chased off.

        Breetai and the Valivarre leave for Optera.

        The Sentinels move against Peryton.

        The Valivarre arrives at Optera and a battle breaks
        out between the Zentraedi and the Invid.  Breetai
        and the Regent die together.

        Tesla and Burak sacrifice themselves to end the
        curse of Peryton.

2029    The Ark Angel, Tokugawa, and the Karbarran ship
        Tracialle enters Opteraspace to accompany the
        Valivarre, now under the command of Kazianna Hesh,
        in the Battle for Optera.  Edwards's SDF-7 and the
        Tokugawa are destroyed and all survivors are picked
        up by the Valivarre.  The Ark Angel leads a direct
        assault against the Invid home hive, where Edwards
        is in control of the Invid.

        Edwards reveals to Rick and Lisa the personal
        vendetta he has on them.

        Janice, in the guise of Minmei grabs Edwards, and
        both hurl in to the molten flames of the dying
        Genesis Pit.  The home hive is destroyed and Minmei
        is rescued.  Arla-non, and Teal both die.

        End of the Sentinels' War.

        Optera slowly heals from the critical wounds the
        Invid have made on it during their stay.

        Dr. Lang makes a series of shattering discoveries
        about the spacefold generators his teams have used
        in Carpenter and Wolff's ships.

        Ark Angel begins a slow return to Tirol.  The
        Tracialle returns the remaining Sentinels to their
        home planets.

        Breetai's son, Drannin, is born to the Zentraedi
        Kazianna Hesh.

2030    The Ark Angel arrives at Tiresia.  Lang briefs the
        council and Expeditionary Force members on his
        discoveries.

        Roy Hunter is born in Tiresia.  The REF and
        Karbarrans begin work on the main fleet ships.

        Lang's Robotech teams develop an integrated system
        of body armor and reconfigurable cycles, known as
        Cyclones.

        A new protoculture hand weapon is developed, the
        Mars Gallant H90 blaster.

2031    Dana Sterling and Bowie Grant turn 18, graduate from the
        Southern Cross Academy, and are assigned to the 15th
        Alpha Tactical Armored Corps, which includes Sean
        Phillips, Angelo Dante, and Louie Nichols.

        The Robotech Masters arrive in Earthspace to
        retrieve Zor's Protoculture matrix found in the SDF-
        1 for the survival of their race and the Second
        Robotech War begins.

        Dana Sterling is promoted to 2nd Lieutenant after
        ex-c.o. Sean Phillips was reduced to the rank of
        private after a run-in with a general's daughter.

        Communications with Space Station Liberty, the only
        comline to the REF, has been cut.

        Battle at Fokker Aerospace Base.  Dana is promoted
        to 1st lieutenant after mobilizing the 15th (without
        authorization) and leaving their post to be a back
        up contingency to the forces already being defeated.  

        Dana has her first encounter with the
        red Bioroid.

        Dana, Bowie, and Angelo volunteer for the mission to
        reestablish communications with Space Station
        Liberty.

        Dana and Bowie sees Zor Prime(pilot of the Red Bioroid)
        for the first time at the site of the SDF-1.  They are
        discovered and Bowie is captured.  Dana leads an
        unauthorized rescue mission for Bowie disguised as a
        routine night patrol.

        Louie Nichols of the 15th discovers a weakness in
        the Robotech ships and a mission is prepared.  The
        Robotech Masters flagship is crippled and crashes
        near Monument city.

        The Army of the Southern Cross converge on the
        fallen Robotech ship but all actions are harmless
        against the ship.  Lieutenant Marie Crystal of the
        Tactical Armored Space Corp is wounded in battle and
        is rescued by Sean Phillips.

        The 15th is ordered to enter the alien ship for a
        recon mission.  The squad is separated and Bowie
        meets Musica.  Dana and Louie discover that the
        inhabitants of the alien ships are not androids but
        clones.  With the 15th together again, Dana captures
        a Bioroid and is examined with the utmost care by
        Professor Zand.  

        Another ship from the Robotech Masters' fleet
        descends to Earth and lifts its' fallen comrade back
        to orbit.  
   
        Major Carpenter's ships arrive at Earth and futilely
        tries to engage the Robotech Masters but are them-
        selves obliterated.  Survivors are picked up by the
        15th ATAC's.  

        Zor Prime is introduced to the 15th.  Unknown to him
        and the 15th, he is used as a spy for the Masters.  

        Musica rejects her chosen mate Karno.  

2032    The new Armored Jet Attack Copter VT's are produced
        and readied for the 1st attack wave against the
        alien ships.  The attack wave is crippled badly and
        takes refuge on Moon Base ALUCE.  

        On Earth, Dana and Bowie go to the site of the old
        SDF-1 and witness the blossoming of the Flower of
        Life in the SDF-1's reflex engines.  

        A second wave is prepared and General Emerson is to
        be the commanding officer of the mission giving a
        chance to the survivors of the first wave to return
        to Earth with their wounded.  

        Louie Nichols' Visual Trace Firing System is
        integrated into the VT's weapons systems without his
        consent.  

        The ATAC's are ordered to break through the alien
        flag ship's defenses and attempt to destroy it from
        the inside.  Zor, now under the power of the
        Robotech Masters, turns on the 15th and tries to
        capture the squad but the 15th scatters and
        separately explores the entire ship.  Bowie finds
        Musica again and both fall in love.  Eventually, the
        15th is captured but are freed by Musica.
        Zor is taken to the Memory Management Lab to be
        reprogrammed.  The 15th bursts in and interrupts the
        process during the reinstatement of his memory.  Zor
        destroys the core of the ship's power causing the
        destruction of the ship and the 15th leaves the
        alien ship with their hovertanks with Musica.  
        Somehow, Zor manages to escape unscathed.  The
        Robotech Masters transfer to a different ship to
        continue their mission for the matrix.  
     
        General Emerson's flagship is destroyed and he,
        Lieutenant Crystal, and Lieutenant Dennis Brown are
        taken prisoner by the Robotech Masters.  
     
        Nova Satori of the Global Military Police orders the
        arrest and apprehension of the "alien" Musica for
        questioning but is unable to find her.  Bowie has
        taken her to the site of the SDF-1 to see the
        Flowers of Life.  The 15th follows their trail, in
        turn Nova follows the 15th, and in turn again Zor
        follows Nova.  Zor sees the Flowers of Life and his
        memory reawakens and he becomes the original Zor.  
     
        The Robotech Masters bargain with Emerson's party
        for Zor and Musica to be returned to the Masters.  

        The Masters flagship descends towards the site of
        the SDF-1, hoping to retrieve the matrix before it
        mutates into the Flower of Life, then rendering the
        matrix useless.  

        All forces of the planet join at Monument City for a
        final battle against the Masters.  In result,
        Monument City is leveled and there are no survivors.  
        Commander Leonard and staff are also killed.  

        The Masters are killed by Zor and Dana-- after touching
        the two leads of a new matrix made by the Robotech
        Masters.  Dana has a vision of the coming of the Invid,
        telepathically communicated to her by her sister, Aurora. 

        The 15th, Marie, Dennis, and the remaining clone
        population of the Masters leave the doomed ship in
        transports and lands near the SDF-1 site.  

        Zor Prime's attempt at destroying the Masters'
        flagship results in the loosing of the Flowers of
        Life from the Protoculture matrix concealed within
        the spacefold drives of the buried SDF-1; spores
        cover the planet and the Flower takes root, alerting
        the Regis's sensor nebula.  

        General Emerson, Octavia(one of Musica's Triumverate
        sisters), Zor Prime, and Lazlo Land die.

        End of the Second Robotech War.  

        Max, Miriya, and Aurora Sterling arrive on Tirol
        from Haydon IV.  
     
        The Invid "disappear" from Tirol's corner of the
        galaxy.  It is assumed that the Regis has begun her
        move against Earth.  

        The Mars Veritech Group leaves Tirol with 18-year-
        old Scott Bernard aboard.  

        Jonathan Wolff's ship returns to Earth.  An anti-
        Invid underground is established before the Regis
        arrives.  Dana commandeers Wolff's ship after the
        drives are retrofitted with a device perfected by
        former 15th ATAC whiz-kid, Louie Nichols and folds
        for Tirol.  

        The Robotech factory satellite returns to Earthspace
        from Tirol.  

        Optera is fully seeded with the Flowers of Life and
        given over to the homeless Praxians, who rename the
        planet "New Praxis."  The Flowers become the crop
        for a new Second Generation Protoculture matrix
        created by Rem, who has managed to tap his progenitor's,
        Zor's, memories.  

        The Invid Regis arrives.  Her newly hatched army of
        soldiers and mecha destroy the factory satellite and
        easily defeat Earth's depleted defenses.  Hives and
        farms are set up worldwide, and some Terran captives
        are forced to work in labor camps in Canada,
        harvesting Flowers and processing nutrient for use
        in the Regis's Terror Weapons and battlecraft.  

        Admiral Lisa Hunter resumes command of the SDF-3.  

        Arrival of Dana Sterling on Tirol.  With her are
        Bowie Grant, Sean Phillips, Angelo Dante, Musica and
        Allegra, and some of the Masters' clones.  
     
        Shadow Fighters and neutron "S" missiles are
        developed by the REF for the assault against Earth.  
        Instantaneous spacefold becomes a reality for the
        main-fleet ships.  

        Arrival and defeat of the Mars Attack Group sent by
        the REF.  

        Scott Bernard's fiancee, Marlene Rush, dies with the
        Mars Group flagship.  Scott Bernard crashlands on Earth,
        but continues his mission:  To reach the Regis's central
        hive complex, code named Reflex Point.  

        Upon crossing a desert on his Cyclone, he meets
        Rand, who has just discovered the fallen flagship
        from the Mars Group and was joy riding on a newly
        acquired Cyclone when Invid scouts appeared.  Scott
        engages the scouts and destroys them easily with the
        Cyclone's configurable armor.  

        Scott and Rand approach Laako City where they pick
        up Annie LaBelle.  The population of the city turns
        them over to the Invid Shock Troopers, but with the
        help of a mysterious red Cyclone rider, the Shock
        Troopers were dispatched.  The red Cyclone rider
        disappears.  

        Scott and company enter a dust-ridden town and
        attends a club where they see and meet the famous
        singer Yellow Dancer.  A brawl breaks out and Scott
        ends it quickly with a shot from his blaster.  Here
        they meet the mysterious red Cyclone rider, Rook
        Bartley, former of the bike gang, the Blue Angels.
        Here, Lancer(a male robotech freedom fighter in the
        guise of a female singer, Yellow Dancer), and William
        "Lunk" Benovitch(a former robotech bio-maintenance
        engineer) join Scott on his journey to Reflex Point. 
        Lunk provides Scott with a fully maintained and
        operational Alpha fighter.  

        Scott's team discover that the Invid can sense the
        presence of Protoculture emanations.  

        Scott's team makes a pit stop at Norristown.  Using
        a Yellow Dancer Concert as a diversion, the team
        makes away with a truck load of canisters of
        Protoculture-- fuel for their Robotech mecha.  

        One night, Rook returns to her home town to settle a
        dispute which has troubled her ever since she left.  
        Unknowingly to her, Rand is curious and follows.  
        She has a showdown with the leader of the Red Snakes
        who has harassed the town ever since her ex-
        boyfriend, Romy, had disbanded the Blue Angels.  

        The team approaches Roca Negra.  Lunk tries to
        fulfill a promise to a friend by returning a book to
        his father, Alfred Nader, an intelligent man who
        spoke out against the Invid slavery, was killed by
        the townspeople in fear of him endangering the town.  

        The team encounters Colonel Wolff and his anti-Invid
        underground.  For months, Wolff has been giving
        Robotech soldiers to the Invid in exchange for canisters
        of Protoculture and the possible release of his wife and
        son from imprisonment by the Invid.  Realizing his grave
        mistake in his actions, Wolff, in Scott's VT, aids
        the team in a short skirmish with the Invid and is
        mortally wounded.  Colonel Jonathan Wolff dies.  

        The Regis performs clonings in Genesis Pits(similar
        to those on Praxis) to acquire the ultimate form her
        Invid should take for their new life on Earth.  
     
        Scott, Rand, and Annie, while on a scouting mission,
        discover one of the Regis's Genesis Pits.  During an
        earthquake, the Genesis Pit is destroyed with all
        the life forms evolved in it.  

        The simulagent Ariel(cloned from a female human
        body found in a wreckage of the Mars Division
        flagship) is birthed and is planted in the route
        Scott's team is heading.  

        The team approach Point K, a rendezvous for all
        surviving units of Scott's invasion force,
        consisting of close to a thousand veritechs, ground
        units, assault mecha, supplies, and ammunition.  But
        instead of finding a base, they find a graveyard of
        ships.  The Invid had already obliterated all forces
        at Point K.  The team enters the area in search for
        ordinance but Scott goes in to seclusion.  Rand and
        Rook scout the area and finds Ariel at a nearby
        town.  Ariel, similar to a newborn child, has not
        learned to speak.  Rand and Rook assumes her to be
        in shock.  Lunk and Lancer discover two operational
        Alpha fighters and one intact Beta fighter among the
        wreckage.  The group comes together to report their
        findings and Ariel is given the name Marlene by
        Scott for she is in the likeness of his deceased
        fiancee, Marlene Rush.  

        The team approaches a mountain range and is quickly
        warned by the nearby town, Deguello, that the ranges
        are constantly patrolled by the Invid fortress built
        there.  A map of the secret routes to pass through
        the patrols were sold, but through Lancer's old time
        girlfriend, Carla, she reveals to him that the maps
        are fake and the citizens who buy and follow the map
        were going to their dooms.  

        Rand and Annie volunteer and successfully deactivate
        the Invid Brain to prevent the detection of incoming
        Robotech mecha. The Brain and the fortress is destroyed
        nearly trapping Scott and his veritech inside.

        The Regis loses contact with the simulagent Ariel in
        result of interacting with humans and their emotions.  

        Rand, caught in a sandstorm, inhales pollen from the
        Flower of Life and learns of the real reason why the
        Regis is on Earth.  

        The team enters a jungle forest region once controlled by
        the Zentraedi during the Malcontent Uprisings.  Micronian
        slaves were used then and the inhabitants now have been
        reduced to primitive levels.  Lancer, mistaken as a
        woman, is kidnapped.  
 
        The team rescues Lancer and rids the valley of Invid
        Shock Troopers.  They make rafts to go down stream
        past an Invid hive but Annie stays behind as a
        jungle queen.  

        Scott's team enters an old abandoned city but are
        followed by the Invid.  After taking refuge in an
        old subway, the Invid caves in the subway exits in
        hopes of burying the Robotech rebels.  Upon escaping,
        Annie rejoins the team.  
     
        Prince Corg and Princess Sera are transmutated to
        human form and are ordered to go out and seek the
        simulagent Ariel for the cause of her disfunction.  

        The team finds a few left over naval ships from the
        Second Robotech War to cross the Gulf of Mexico.  They
        set a trap for the Invid patrols and Rook is wounded in
        the battle.  

        The team takes a rest at a once beautiful beach
        resort.  Lancer has a run in with the Invid Princess
        Sera and reports to Scott that the Invid are using
        human pilots for their mecha.  Sera is disturbed by
        her first encounter with the human emotions in her
        created by Lancer.  

        Scott is taught how to swim by Rand and Annie

        Sera prepares an ambush for the rebels in a high
        mountain-pass near Baja California.  Upon seeing
        Lancer's face, Sera hesitates a moment too soon to
        give the order to fire and the rebels escape.   Sera
        encounters Ariel for the first time.  

        The Jupiter Attack Wing of the REF folds for Earth

        Scott's team encounters one of the ships and its
        crew from Major Carpenter's defeated fleet from
        Tirol.  The ship and crew boldly sacrifice them-
        selves in destroying an Invid hive.  All crew are
        presumed dead.  
   
        The team enters the Rocky Mountains and finds the
        city of Denver(but really a secret underground shelter
        named Delta Six) buried beneath the ice.  
        They resupply and explore the city.  Scott and
        Marlene fall in love.  While he searches for the
        rebels, Corg discovers them in the city and attacks.  
        The team successfully escapes and self-destructs the
        power center in the city and buries the city once
        again.  Corg encounters Ariel for the first time.  

        The team holds a surprise birthday party for Annie.  

        The team runs into Dusty Ayres, a human specimen the
        Invid used to experiment on, replacing his entire
        right side with Protoculture-generated organs
        without the use of any anesthetics, while his
        friends stood by and watched.  He wages war on all
        Robotech soldiers and Scott rounds up a posse to
        hunt for him until the Invid attacks.  With some
        encouragement from Rook, Dusty aids Scott in the
        battle and is killed.  

        The liberation of the city of Mannattan (formerly
        New York City).  Sera encounters Ariel again and
        asks her why she hasn't reported to the Regis.  
        Ariel is ignorant to the fact that she is an Invid.  

2035    The Jupiter attack wing arrives in Earthspace and is
        defeated.  Photojournalist Sue Graham updates Scott
        and his team on the present situation of the REF
        main fleet.  Shadow Fighters are introduced.  The
        Synchro cannon(adapted by Dr. Nichols) is destroyed. 
        Graham sees an Invid with the body of a human.  Marlene
        and the rebel team discovers she is an Invid.  Sue Graham
        dies.  

        The REF main-fleet ships(Saturn and Neptune Groups)
        are folded from Tirol to Earth under the command of
        General Reinhardt.  The attack against Reflex Point
        commences in space and on ground.  Scott's team join
        forces with the ground troops and the Shadow Fighters 
        make up the main attack group in space.  

        Marlene leads Scott and his team in to the home hive
        to speak with the Regis.  

        Scott battles with Corg and is shot down.  Rand is
        also shot down by Corg and wounded.  Scott returns
        in a Beta fighter and kills Corg.  

        Upon seeing the REF defense lines crumbling, General
        Reinhardt orders the launch of the neutron "S"
        missiles.  Seeing this threat, the Regis and her children
        take leave of the planet in the form of a phoenix of
        mindstuff, annihilating the remaining orbiting REF ships
        and its crews in the process.  
     
        The SDF-3 fails to appear in Earthspace.  Rick turns
        40(or 45 in chronological years); Lisa turns 45(or
        50); Roy turns 5.  

        Upon falling in love with Lancer, Sera remains
        behind on Earth.  Marlene also remains behind.  

        End of the Third Robotech War.  

        During Yellow Dancer's final concert, Lancer reveals
        his true gender and identity.  

        Scott Bernard, in a salvaged Alpha-Beta fighter,
        leaves his past, his friends, and the Earth behind
        to return to Tirol to begin a search for the missing
        or lost SDF-3 battle fortress.  

        The Ark Angel and the remainder of the REF fold for
        Earth.

        The Ark Angel has been spared the fate of the rest
        of the main-fleet ships and positions itself in
        orbit above the recovering Southlands.  They meet up
        with Scott and he informs the Plenipotentiary
        Council on Tirol the results of the Third Robotech
        War and the SDF-3's failure to arrive.  

        Scott Bernard is promoted to the rank of colonel.  

        Various Protoculture-based Robotech mecha ceases to
        function all over the quadrant.  Transportation is
        reverted back to chemical resources, museum aircraft
        are put into use.  

        Scott Bernard and Vince and Jean Grant commence a
        search for the missing fortress aboard the Ark
        Angel.  

        On Haydon IV, Veidt and Exedore are present at the
        reawakening of the planet's Awareness.  Max and his
        family are also on-planet.  Cabell is on Tirol.  
     
        The great god Haydon returns to Haydon IV.  Haydon
        IV leaves its planetary orbit, all inhabitants are
        forced into below-surfaced chambers and are guarded
        by Haydonites.  The long awaited "Event"(a cosmic
        event that will alter the fabric of spacetime) has
        commenced its beginning programmed into the planets
        AI awareness eons ago.  Exedore and Veidt hypothesizes
        that somehow, the universe is shrinking.  

        The Karbarran fleet's command ship N'trpriz,
        attempting to rescue those imprisoned below the
        surface of Haydon IV, is obliterated by its own
        self-destruct sequence armed by the planet's
        Awareness.  

        Haydon IV executes a hyperspace fold to the Ranaath
        system, a black hole system and the receiving end of
        the energy pulse that accompanied the Invid
        departure.  
     
        General Vince Grant and Dr. Louie Nichols hopes to
        find the SDF-3 at the same place the Invid Regis
        fled to after her phoenix transformation and
        departure from Earth.  

        Ex-GMP Lieutenant Nova Satori leads the Homunculi
        Movement on Earth.  

        Scott returns to Earth in search of Marlene, hoping
        to find a clue of the whereabouts of the Invid
        Regis.  After a week of probing and asking, he finds
        Rand and one pregnant Rook in a pueblo near
        Trenchtown named Xochil, where Rand was writing his
        memoirs.  From there the trail leads to Roca Negra,
        where he finds Marlene with Lunk.  Annie had gone
        back to the jungle forest to live with Magruder.  
        Marlene explains that her sister Sera has a closer
        link with the Regis and should consult with her.  

        The Ark Angel successfully executes a trial fold
        jump to the far side of the moon and prepares to
        fold to Haydon IV where they hope to find a lead to
        the disappearance of the SDF-3.  
        Scott takes Marlene to New York(formerly named
        Mannatan) where Sera is with Lancer.  Sera
        prophesizes a little of the future to Ariel, then
        with her last breath, she dies and her body and
        spirit returns to be one with the Queen-Mother.  
        Scott and Marlene are escorted to Norristown where
        Marlene is taken to be interrogated.  

        Scott returns to the Ark Angel and with the Grants
        and council members, are informed by Dr. Nichols
        that the reason for the breakdown of mecha is that
        all 1st generation Protoculture from Zor's original
        matrix in the SDF-1 and those created by the Regis
        on Earth cease to function after the leaving of the
        Regis.  They realized that the fold and drive systems
        aboard the SDF-3 were from Breetai's original flagship,
        and the battle fortress was taken with the Regis as soon
        as she left Earth.  Also that Robotechnology is coming to
        an end and humans and all living creatures must now shape
        their own destinies, one they will fashion by themselves
        and not by Protoculture.  

        Scott is reunited with Marlene and is ordered to try
        to help her re-establish link with the Regis.  

        The Ark Angel arrives at the vicinity of Haydon IV
        but the planet is no longer there.  After picking up
        the survivors of the command ship N'trpriz, the ship
        then folds to Tirol to inform the Plenipotentiary
        Council of their findings.  All trails lead to the
        Ranaath system and preparations are made for the
        jump to the black hole system.  Karbarra declares
        war on Haydon IV.  

        Haydon IV defolds in orbit around the sixth planet
        in the Ranaath system and begins collecting
        radiation bleeds from the black hole.  
     
        Haydon IV reconfigures to begin production on ships
        to follow the trail of the Regis.  

Newspace: The arrival of the SDF-3 in Newspace-a universe of
          non-space fashioned by the Shapings of Protoculture
          and the Regis.  Similar to the uniqueness of the
          SDF-1's fold drives which captures a quantum of
          hyperspace and conveys it into a world of time, the
          SDF-3 captured a quantum of time and had taken it
          into hyperspace.  Newspace is outside the province
          of space and time.  The SDF-3's fold drives have
          also disappeared, just as it had happened to the
          SDF-1 after its maiden fold.  

          A series of experiments and extra-vehicular
          expeditions are made to test the conditions of the
          surrounding "space".  Captain Jack Baker is the
          first to make the excursion.  Rem enlightens the
          crew of SDF-3 that "newspace" is a universe in the
          making.  

          Retired 15th ATAC Corporal Bowie Grant is onboard
          with the Muses.  They struggle to replace the dead
          triumverate sister with synthesizers and samplers to
          recreate the spell-binding music the sisters once
          played aboard the Masters' flagship.  Minmei resumes
          her singing once again to try to reawaken Rem's
          memories of Zor.  

          Combined with the former members of the 15th ATAC's
          of the Southern Cross, Captains Jack Baker and Marie
          Crystal lead two squadrons of Veritechs.  Among them
          are:  Captain Sean Phillips, Sergeant Angelo Dante(he
          refused his commission), and Captain Karen Penn), to
          intercept the incoming "multiple bogeys of tentacles
          with no source" reaching out towards the SDF-3.
          Fighters that intercepted with the tentacles disappear,
          and are presumed missing.  Vital parts of the ship's
          reflex drive systemry disappear after the attack.  

2037    The Ark Angel folds to Karbarra to try to sway them
        from declaring war on Haydon IV before they are
        informed of the situation on the planet.  

        Cabell informs everybody on the genesis of Haydon
        and his contribution to the evolution of the Invid,
        Karbarrans, Perytons, Spherisians, Garudans,
        Praxians, and all Local Group races.  Upon the
        mating of the Invid and protoculture and their
        transmutation(the Event), Haydon's race would come
        out of suspended animation, hook on to the tail of
        the Invid phoenix and follow them into another
        dimension.  

        The Ark Angel defolds in the Ranaath system and sees
        Haydon IV reconfigured and joined to a planet mining
        metals for the ships the planet is manufacturing.  

        Louie Nichols' cyber-team links with the planet's
        awareness to find the course plot for the ships so
        the Ark Angel can arrive ahead of Haydon's ships.  
     
        Communications with Exedore and the Sterlings are
        established.  

        With a false denouncement of love from Scott,
        Marlene has a seizure and confirms that the Regis is
        in the collapsed Ranaath's star.  

        In learning of the whereabouts of the SDF-3,
        preparations are made to hijack one of Haydon's
        newly built ships after the planet's Awareness has
        programmed the coordinates and course plot into the
        automatic computers for the ships to follow the path
        of the Invid into the black hole.  

        The Karbarran fleet arrives at Ranaath's star and
        begins to engage Haydon IV with their fighters.  

        Dana Sterling leads a rebellion against the planet's
        Awareness to free its prisoners.  

        Colonel Scott Bernard leads the mission to hijack
        Haydon's prototype ship.  Louie and his cyber-team are
        infiltrated into the planet's AI, trying to give
        clearance to Scott's team to take the ship without Haydon
        knowing it, and also hoping to throw the planet's
        Awareness into disarray by the coordinated multiple
        attacks.  

        The Ark Angel deploys shuttles to Haydon IV to pick
        up the hostages, including Exedore, Veidt, and the
        Sterlings.  

        Scott(with the help of Louie and his cyber-team)
        successfully hijack a Haydonite ship (christened the
        Peter Pan) and the Ark Angel ferries supplies and
        crew (including the Grants, Karen's father Doctor
        Penn, Marlene, Louie and his cyber-team, and the
        Sterlings) to the ship.  Upon completion, the ship
        continues its programming and embarks for the voyage
        into the black hole.  

        Exedore and Cabell discover a new found matter in
        the universe, anti-protoculture.  

        The Robotech Elders provide Haydon with the location
        of new found protoculture on New Praxis in exchange
        for rulership of the Local Group planets.  Haydon
        agrees but sees their planned betrayal to him and
        Haydon IV folds to New Praxis.  

Newspace: The SDF-3 encounters a planet Dr. Lang has fashioned.
          The ship plots a course for the newly formed planet.  

          Lisa Hayes is puzzled by the strange actions of Roy
          (5 years old before Newspace) and the other children
          taken along on the SDF-3.  

          Rem has periodic flashes of his progenitor's life,
          the seeding and experimenting with the Flower of
          Life, while Minmei continues to sing with Bowie and
          the Muses.  

          The SDF-3 arrives in orbit around the planet(dubbed
          Omphalos).  Rick accompanies the landing party to
          survey the planet.  

          Minmei informs Lisa that she is carrying Rem's child

          Angelo and Gnea disappear from the scout team.  
          Kazianna Hesh leads a formation of Quadranos and
          battlepods down to the planet to aid the scout team
          in search of the missing members.  Roy, Drannin, and
          their peers form a circle in their nursery and begin
          chanting "Aurora".

          Angelo and Gnea reappear after meeting with the
          Invid Regis, and tells the scout team that the Regis
          has the fold systems and that the known universe is
          coming to an end.  Rick is recalled to the SDF-3
          because the children were in contact with Aurora.  
     
Rspace: Haydon IV arrives at New Praxis and commands the
        Praxians to bring all of the Flowers of Life to him.  

        Aboard the Peter Pan, Marlene regains consciousness
        and Aurora is summoned to the SDF-3.  Aurora informs
        the children of the SDF-3 that help is on the way.  

        On Tirol, Exedore and Cabell meet with Local Group
        captains to plan the attack on Haydon IV now orbiting New
        Praxis.  

        Haydon IV completes transferring of 2nd generation
        Protoculture from the planet.  The Local Group fleet
        arrives with the Tracialle and Valivarre leading the
        attack.  While the fleet closes in on Haydon IV, the
        planet transforms into battle mode-similar to the
        transformation of the SDF-1.  

        The Tracialle is destroyed taking Haydon IV with it,
        but Haydon had launched fighters and the planet's
        Awareness speeds towards Tirol to seize the
        protoculture matrix developed by Rem.  

        Exedore and Cabell struggle to coordinate the
        evacuation of Tirol to underground shelters.  
        Tiresia is destroyed as Haydon IV's awareness mates
        with the matrix.  All knowledge and data of anti-
        Protoculture is also destroyed.  

        The Regis and Haydon battle for supremacy.  The
        Haydonite ships, not built for direct entry, were
        destroyed upon Haydon's entry into Newspace.  

Newspace:  Rick, Lisa, Kazianna, and the parents of the children  
           arrive in the nursery where they finally come out of
           their trance, informing the parents that help is on 
           the way in the form of Aurora and the others.  

           Upon debriefing Angelo and Gnea, the SDF-3 realizes
           that all creation from Protoculture will cease to
           exist and that the Regis wishes to return to a pre-
           Zor state of existence.  

           Arrival of Peter Pan with Aurora guiding the ship
           towards the SDF-3.  The crew of the original RDF are
           reunited once again.  
    
           At the urgings of Rem and the children, a party was
           formed to returned to Omphalos to try to communicate
           with the Regis.  A patrol of Alphas had discovered
           an Invid hive and the party is shuttled down near
           the hive.  The party includes the Hunters,
           Sterlings, Grants, Kazianna and Drannin, Rem and
           Minmei, Dr. Nichols and his cyber-team, Dr. Lang,
           Scott and Marlene, Angelo and Gnea, Baldan, and
           Learna.  The party meets with the Regis and is
           informed of her ultimatum.  

           Max wins in combat with a black mecha fashioned by
           the Regis from Dana's dark side of her feelings of
           her parents leaving her behind on Earth.  

           After Max's battle, the party returns to the SDF-3
           and Dr. Lang and Dr. Nichols are placed in custody,
           but escape aboard the fortress.  

           The Regis and Haydon battle for supremacy.  

           Dr. Lang joins in one with the shapings of
           Protoculture with Dr. Nichols as the last person to
           see Dr. Lang ever again.  

           Upon returning to the SDF-3, the party rushes to the
           engine room in hope of that the SDF-3 children can
           somehow bring the fold system back to fold out of
           Newspace while the Regis is preoccupied.  With the
           help of Aurora and the voice of Minmei, the SDF-3
           children teleport the original fold system of the
           SDF-1 from the Regis's domain and is quickly hooked
           up to the SDF-3 systemry.  

           The SDF-3 executes a fold to realspace.  At the door
           between realspace and Newspace, the Regis and Haydon
           clash head-on(the Intersection, the end of the
           Shapings).  Both deities at once knew the true meaning
           of humbleness and precedented sensations of peace and
           acceptance.  The Regis takes the phoenix form again
           and takes flight one final time.  

           All throughout the SDF-3, the crew looks across space
           and time, and of places and people of the past.  
           Kazianna has visions of Breetai.  Drannin sees his
           father for the first time; Lisa has visions of her
           long lost love, Karl Riber, including visions of
           Claudia Grant, the bridge crew, and Captain Gloval;
           Rick has visions of Ben Dixon, Claudia Grant, his
           father's old flying circus, Roy Fokker and himself
           growing up while Roy II watches from Rick's arms;
           Dana has visions of her three godfathers on Earth
           and Zor's tormented life, and understood; Bowie has
           visions of his old friend Rolf Emerson; Scott has
           visions of both Marlene and Ariel intertwined;
           Ariel/Marlene has timescenes of the original Marlene's
           life and of her own race's struggle to survive on
           Optera; And Minmei has visions of her cousin Kyle, her
           parents, her lover Johnathan Wolff, and her
           song/soulmate, Janice.  

           After the Intersection, Haydon reaches out into the
           SDF-3(still in foldspace) and finds what he is
           looking for.  Rem and Minmei vanishes from the ship
           and are presumed missing.  The missing members of
           the Red and Blue Veritech squadrons are returned to
           the SDF-3.  

2038    The return of the Ark Angel to Earth, new technology
        from the ship helps rebuild the planet.  Water and
        ice are brought from off-world to replace the
        contaminated water on Earth.  Starships are built
        with new designs and the Local Group worlds help in
        putting Earth back on her feet.  They are unaware of
        the outcome of the Intersection and the crew of the
        SDF-3 are presumed dead.  

        The eradication of the old Earth government, and the
        beginning of a benign, democratic, and participatory
        government.  

        The surviving Haydonites become the Interstellar
        Peace Corps.  

        Maria Bartley-Rand is born to Rook Bartley

        Success of Rand's book - Notes on the Run.  

        Annie LaBelle and Magruder(both with advanced degrees in
        neogenetics)head up Genetic Engineering at the
        Restoration Bureau Headquarters to re-genesize animals
        on Earth.  

        The freedom fighter Lancer(also known as Yellow
        Dancer)is reported dead while flying a disaster
        relief mission.  
        Reforestation program begins in Alaska.  

        The music of Lynn-Minmei and Yellow Dancer lives on.  

2051    The SDF-3 defolds in realspace.  

2056    The arrival of the SDF-3 into Earthspace under the
        auxillary power drives

        The Hunters meet Scott's old strike-force:Rand and
        his family, Lunk, Annie and Magruder.  Scott and
        Marlene are informed of Lancer's death. 
        Scott proposes to Marlene.  

        The Hunters and Sterlings take a tour of the recovering
        Earth.  

        Dana encounters former Senator Alfonso Napoleon Russo.  

        Louie & Co. becomes a driving force toward Instu-
        Mentality.  Implants that will give every
        intelligent being powers of teleportation,
        psychokinesis, and telepathy.  

        The Crazy Eights Exploration and Development Co.
        Unlimited is formed by Dana Sterling, Sean Phillips,
        Marie Crystal, Jack Baker, Karen Penn, Lunk, and
        several others.  

        A new club named Bowie Grant's Blue Harp Lounge
        opens.  

        Angelo and Gnea fall in love and he introduces Gnea
        to his parents.  

        The Second Gen Flowers of Life begins to bloom on
        new Praxis again.  The Regis is hypothesized to be
        in New Praxis in her pre-Zor state of existence.  

        Zentraedi survivors return to Fantoma to continue
        mining for the monopole ore.  

        The special psi-abilities are discovered in the SDF-3
        children.  

        Aurora runs for Interworld Council and becomes the
        youngest representative-elect ever.  

        Max and Miriya Sterling become ambassadors to Tirol and
        Fantoma.  

        Rick Hunter teaches Roy the art of flying.  
 
        Work on the SDF-4 nears completion for the mission
        to the Andromeda Galaxy to see if the Intersection
        had had any affect in that quadrant.  The starship
        will be commanded by none other than Admiral Lisa
        Hayes-Hunter.  

Newspace: Two planets alone exists.  One is the prison for the
          Robotech Elders.  The other, foliated by the Flowers of
          Life, their Pollinators, and where the SDF-3 fold drive
          lies, is inhabited by two humans, Rem and Minmei,
          awaiting the birth of their first child, and slowly
-- 
   LUM: Oh Darling.....I love you!!!!
   ATARU(being zapped): GIIIIIIIIIIIIIIYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYAAAAAAAAAAAA!

