:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
         -----=====Earth's Dreamlands=====-----
          (313)558-5024 {14.4} - (313)558-5517
              A BBS for text file junkies
              RPGNet GM File Archive Site
.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.

Subject: torg cards - quick reference

GM SIDE OF CARD

Conflict Lines: S and D, for Standard and Dramatic scenes. All
(dis)advantages on the Conflict line affect every person on the
indicated side.

   Flurry
      Each character gets 2 rounds of action before other side can
      react.
   Inspiration
      Removes all shock damage and KO conditions.
   Up
      All get an additional roll as if they had spent a possibility. May
      not be countered by a possibility.
   Break
      Villains only. damaged characters who fail to hit will flee.
   Confused
      No player may activate a card from her pool.
   Fatigued
      all characters take 2 points of shock damage.
   Setback
      Triggers setback event, or prevents affected side from taking
      action against their opponents.
   Stymied
      All characters lose one chance to roll a die again for an action.
   Taunt, Test, Trick, and/or Intimidate
      If villain succeeds in a skill use, may remove card(s) from
      opponent's pool.

Dramatic Skill Resolution
   Possible Setback
      Character in Dramatic Skill Resolution who fails this step loses a
      step.
   Complication
      Character in Dramatic Skill Resolution who fails this step, all
      subsequent steps get 1 harder.
   Critical Problem
      Character in Dramatic Skill Resolution who fails this step must
      use a new skill to complete Dramatic Skill Resolution.

PLAYER SIDE OF CARD

Subplots (Martyr, Mistaken Identity, Nemesis, Personal Stake, Romance,
Suspicion, True Identity)
   All remain in the pool once placed. Does not count against limit of
   four cards in player's hand. If discarded by GM 1 possibility point
   awarded to PC. If accepted then PC gets one bonus possibility point
   per act. If a Campaign card is placed on an accepted subplot and
   accepted then the subplot is permanent and the PC gets one bonus
   possibility per act whenever the subplot is active in the future of
   the campaign.
Campaign
   may be played on top of a Subplot card to make it permanent. If
   discarded is worth 1 Possibility point.
Alertness
   Remains in the pool once you have placed it there. Does not count
   against the limit of four cards in the player's hand. Lets a PC
   notice an item or clue which she otherwise missed.
Connection
   Remains in the pool once placed. Does not count against limit of four
   cards in player's hand. Lets a PC know someone in the area who can
   give aid.
Action
   Increases bonus number for an action by 3. Active skill use only.
Adrenalin, Willpower, and Presence
   Add directly to an attribute number for one round.
Coup de Grace
   Increases the effect value for an action.
Hero
   Can be played as an extra possibility point.
Drama
   Can be played as an extra possibility point. If saved until end of
   adventure can be turned in for 3 bonus possibility points.
Escape
   Must be played into pool during first round of encounter. Allows
   entire party to escape the encounter.
Haste
   Gives an extra action *at any time* during the round, even during
   villain's turn.
Glory
   If played after rolling 60+ for a key action during a dramatic scene,
   increases possibility award for all players in adventure by 3.
Master Plan
   This may be exchanged for any card which has just been placed on the
   discard pile.
Monologue
   All hostile action stops while PC makes a speech for a round.
Opponent Fails
   An enemy action which has just succeeded fails instead.
Second Chance
   May retry an action after failing to accomplish it.
Seize Initiative
   May keep current card on the stack for next round or immediately flip
   a new card onto the stack. Player choice.
Supporter
   May add 3 to another player's total after dice roll but before GM
   announces the result.
Rally
   All players may discard as many cards as they wish and immediately
   fill up hand to 4 cards, not counting cards in the pool.
Leadership
   May play up to 2 cards from your hand or pool into other's hands or
   pools, and may discard from your hand if wish and then refill up to 4
   cards.
Idea
   When the player is stumped by a problem, explain your confusion, play
   this card, and the GM will give a hint.

The Subplot Cards
Martyr
   The PC playing this card may sacrifice her life and automatically
   produce a victory from disaster. Anyone holding it at the end of
   adventure loses 3 (is this right?) possibility points.
Mistaken Identity
   A PC is thought to be someone else, or believes another character to
   be someone she isn't.
Nemesis
   There is, or will be, someone in the adventure who has a grudge
   against the PC, or vice versa.
Personal Stake
   The PC turns out to be emotionally tied to the major plot at hand.
Romance
   The PC becomes emotionally involved with a GM character. Maybe one
   sided, maybe more, but definitely problematic.
Suspicion
   Someone suspects the PC of some crime or terrible action.
True Identity
   The PC is somebody who matters to a GM character, but this is not
   common knowledge.

