	This is a file of the words that comprise the primitive
language used by the natives of the planet Zorandar, as compiled
by the French archeologist Monique Baptiste.

A		* Woman or female
Ala		* Wise woman
Ale		* Wise man
Alor		The orange red star in the sky. Also used as a 
			suffix meaning the color red.
An		And
Ar		* Queen or Chieftess of
Ara		* Princess or Daughter of the Chieftess
Bak		Lizard
Balka		Fire
Balor		The yellow star in the sky. Also a suffix meaning
			the color yellow.
Calor		The white star in the sky. Assuming the natives
			found anything white, it would probably be
			used in the same fashion as the other stars.
Dar		* Of the skies, everything not of the Earth. Often
			used to indicate strangeness or something
			unnatural.
Dak		Yes
Et		* Transforms a noun into an adjective
Gat		* Long
Gor		Teeth, an object that is sharp
I		* Plurality, or a tribal unit
Il		* Having "magic", usually used with one of the
			gender suffixes
Jar		Water, also used to describe a large body of water.
			It would also be used as a suffix if the Uti
			found an object which reflected light.
Jor		River
Ko		* Ugly
Kot		Plains
Kur		Creature that flies, a bird
Laro		West
Lor		Wall or barrier, also used to describe the standard
			Roman Legionaire's shield
Ma		* From
Maro		East
Mat		Woman, as opposed to the suffix "-a" meaning female
Mot		Man, as opposed to the suffix "-o" meaning male
Naa		No, also used as a suffix indicating negation or
			the lack of something
O		* Man or male
Or		* King or Chief of
Oro		* Prince or the son of the Chief
Pith		Furry, mammalian in nature. Also used to mean hair.
Po		* Small, diminutive of a larger thing, child of
Saro		South
Satha		Apparently some sort of reptilain monster that is
			greatly feared by the natives. I can see no
			root in their language that this came from.
			Perhaps some outside influence?
Taro		North
Tek		* Head
Ut		Tree
Yif		Mate, or permanent partner of the opposite sex. The
			less said about this, the better.
Yift		Mated. I believe it to be a corruption of Yifet.
Zodar		Mountain, or literally "earth reaching to the sky"
Zor		Dirt, the ground, the earth itself
Zorandar	The name of the world. Literally "the Earth and
			Everything else".

	All terms marked "*" are usually only used as suffixes.
	As with most primitive cultures, nouns are able to be
combined to provide an astounding range of descriptive terms.
"Utpogor" is "sharp small tree (branch)" or spear, "Utolapo" would
be "Small girl child of the Chief", and the name I have been given
her is Calorpithala, which mean "Red haired wise woman".
/exit
/exit





Press <CR> !