:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
:   Earth's Dreamlands    :  Info on: RPG's,  :(313)558-5024 : area code    :
:RPGNet World HQ & Archive: Drugs, Industrial :(313)558-5517 : changes to   :
:  1000's of text files   :  music, Fiction,  :InterNet      : (810) after  :
:   No Elite / No porn    :   HomeBrew Beer.  :rpgnet@aol.com: Dec 1,1993   :
:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:


My Dear Lord Gradion,

     You had requested that I research the matter of that group of
heroes known as The White Hand, especially as it is pertinent to
our present situation.  Such research is rendered difficult by the
mass of rumour and spurilous detail which grows up around any
popular tale.  I have however, made a breakthrough.

     I have, at personal risk and expense, been able to obtain a
copy of the diaries of the group's personal bards, chiefly Lorac
himself.  Although I doubt the claim that these are the original
manuscripts, I have reason to believe that they are an early copy. 
Although they surfaced in an entirely different part of the world,
the early entries agree closely with a set of books which surfaced
in Tareg.  Although much controversy revolves around the
authenticity of the Tareg Diaries, I am now convinced they are
genuine.

     I have instructed my most trusted servant, Hallon, to
transcribe a copy of these diaries for you along with my notes.

                              Ever your servant,

                              Sydylus

Foreward:

     The White Hand has its roots in a group of adventurers from
the country of Tyglas, which lies northwest of the Federation. 
Tyglas had been a part of the Federation, however had revolted. 
The split had its origins in religion.  Tyglassian humans worship
the Ukko pantheon and do not acknowledge the Dahgdha, whose
pantheon predominates in the Federation.  The first date recorded
in the diaries is April 24, 1101 Year of the Federation.  This puts
events a few months before the outbreak of civil war in Tyglas
between the Tyglasian ruler the Ri Lukra and Lord Rath the Hiissi
worshipper.

     The first diaries make reference to the cities of Iatanor (the
Tyglassian capital), Port Corvor and Canvale.

     It is difficult to find details on the lives of all the
original members of the band, but some have come to life.  The
party grew up around two priests of Mielikki, Stenn Morgan Tremoth
and the druid Bjonri Arik, who dominated the early leadership (such
as it was) of the party, mostly because priests are held in such
high regard in Tyglas.  Both Bjonri and Stenn were half-elven and
at least Stenn had been raised by elves.  The two were soon to be
joined by Stenn's half brothers Sven, the author of the first
diary, and Prothus, the warrior elf who was at this, time, as yet
an unknown.  By the time Sven meets his brother, two more members
have attatched themselves:  Throrn, a dwarven fighter and Grizelda
the gnome warrior and illusionist, also at the beginning of her
career.  Lorac the Bard and Magnar the Ranger were not with the
group at the outset.

Diary of Sven

     I am Sven Yahoo, priest of Ahto, student of Crux and
apprentice to Arkelus and son of Tremoth the sailor.  My mother
died when I was 6.  My father left me with Arkelus and Crux when I
was 10.  Crux left me last year.  Arkelus died 3 weeks ago and I am
alone.  I have a half-brother, Stenn, but I do not know him well. 
I have been told that he has become a priest of Mielikki 

     Since Arkelus died, Ahto bless him, I've decided to search for
a new Father and Master. I'll head towards Iatanor on the East
Coast, possibly finding a teacher on the way.  I should be alright
travelling alone.  After all, Crux trained me as a warrior.  I may
be rusty, but I'll practice on the way.

Apr 24/01

     I reached a halfling town, Boda.  By Ahto they're short!  I
meant to spend by remaining few coins on a bed, but met up with
Stenn.  There were some other people with him.  An unusually dour
looking elf was introduced as Prothus.  He is Stenn's half brother
on his mother's side (Ethelia).  Stenn and I are half-brothers
through our father, Tremoth.  With them was Bjonri, a druid and
fellow priest of Mielikki whom Stenn met at their temple.  Bjonri,
like Stenn, is a half-elf.  They also had with them two short
individuals, a dwarf by the name of Throrn, and a gnome by the name
of Grizelda.  The only full human in the group was a fellow by the
name of George.  Alas my few coins I spent on brew drinking with
them.

     A portly halfling, Tom, asked us to assist him in some family
problems.  Someone, he thought, had been sabotaging his farm; a
barn burnt down, wine stolen and his cows painted green! He wants
us to catch the culprit.  He suspects his neighbour is responsible. 
 We're going to stay at his place.  We're all in desperate need of
money.

     George, the human, is apparently the torch bearer for Bjonri.
Odd that a half-elf, especially a Druid, would want a torch bearer.

Apr 25-28/01

     We've been looking around the farm and some surrounding area,
which is dreadfully dry, and figured out enough to get paid for our
efforts.

     A tower on Tom's property has long fallen, now he is using the
stone blocks to re-build his barn.  However, the stone giant (as
big as halflings are small) moving the blocks was accidentally
spilling dirt down an unused (dry) well centred in the tower ruins. 
The well, however, is the home of a leprechaun (a very short
underground creature with an apparently playful disposition and a
taste for wine) that painted the cows in vengeance.

     The wine was stolen by Tom's daughter Berry who was trying to
impress her secret love Sammy, the neighbours son.  In turn, the
barn was burnt down unintentionally by Sammy who had dropped his
pipe in the hay while wooing Berry at their secret rendezvous point
in back.

     We've been paid 50 gold pieces and given a room for 4 days! 
I think I gained ten pounds with all the food provided.

May 1/01

     We left today for Boda with the lovebirds.  Bjonri helped them
to escape since Sammy's father intended to ask for the stone blocks
as a dowry, Bjonri felt it best financial matters shouldn't
interfere with romance.

     In Boda we met a minstrel, Telgray. He accepted our offer to
travel together, his music is good but monotonous--no, aggravating,
since his selection is limited.

     We're heading East, to the ocean!

May 2/01  The Keep of Brandberg Ness

     While preparing to bed down for the evening, a somewhat
strange individual blundered into our camp.  He told us that Lord
Ness wanted us to play Spottle with him.  Although both Ness and
the circumstances are suspect, we accepted his offer to come to
Lord Ness' keep.

     We arrived and almost immediately were invited to the gaming
table.  Spottle is a dicing game.  I was winning a bit, though the
odds were against it, and noticed that any suggestion of leaving
brought bribes from Ness to stay!  There were two odd players, a
man that turned into a boar at midnight--a wereboar I believe--and
a lizard-man.

     The lizard man took advantage of the 'formal challenge' aspect
of the game wherein a gripe can be settled in combat.  He
challanged Stenn to single combat.  Stenn was a trained fighter
(he'd been taught by the ranger Morgan), but after awhile the
lizard-man got the better of him.  The lizard-man was poised to
deliver a life-ending blow when Ness declared the combat at an end. 
A tense moment followed before the lizard-man acquiesed.  The
second battle took place between the lizard-man and the wereboar. 
During this fight a number of wild boars came to assist!

     When we were, or at least I was, ready to leave some (3?)
hobgoblins (tall, ugly creatures) came into the keep.  From the
ensuing conversation it became apparent that Lord Ness had intended
to sell us as slaves, but the hobgoblin leader Lord Kooz referred
to us as "Thoal Fodder."  Lord Ness claimed that this was not part
of the agreement and threatened to use his "statue" against the
Hobgoblins.  Apparently he needed a key to operate it and he
fumbled vainly in his bag for it.

     Battle erupted between us and the hobgoblins.  Somewhat
distraught, we smited them all.  Although the hobgoblins were
tough, there was one creature, the Thoal, an undead hobgoblin whose
wounds healed even as we fought it.  Quite the challenge, or so I
hear, for I dropped early.

     In thanks and apology, Brandberg Ness gave us treasure and to
each of us a ring, which he said would identify us to his friends
throughout Tyglas.  Prothus received a sword.  It looks very fine. 
It has a copper handle in the form of a dragon's head.  Prothus
almost drooled over it.

May 3/01

     We're still recovering.  I'm starting to train George to use
his torch holder as a staff since he's willing to help us out in
battle.  

May 4/01

     After leaving the keep, I remembered we still had the keys. I
insisted on returning them.  Prothus and Throrn scowled at me,
saying it was a waste of time.  Stenn seemed cross with us for
arguing.  After a heated argument and a period of chaos (back and
forth to the keep) it turned out to be impossible to get in to give
the keys back.  Both the elf and the dwarf looked very smug.  We
left the keys by the keep.

May 5/01

     We travelled a good distance today.  I had it easy using a
Mount for a while.  While on watch that night we were attacked from
the trees by four more hobgoblins using arrows.  After everyone
roused from sleep, Prothus, Throrn, Stenn and Grizelda (the
idiots!) chased the hobgoblins blindly, singly. Bjonri hung back. 
We took more than a fair share of damage but came out on top, Ahto
be praised.

May 6/01

     We came accross a large fort, Fort Armak, and were admitted to
the guest house. There are many elves, humans and dwarven
mercenaries here.

     We're enjoying the rest.

     Grizelda showed off to the fort bigwigs.  She claimed to be as
strong as any of them.  Grizelda has a high pitched voice and the
soldiers scoffed at such boasts from the diminutive gnome--until
she picked up one fellow with one hand.  Throrn followed suit by
picking up Grizelda while she still held her erstwhile cynic.

May 7/01

     Still resting, the bath is great!

May 8/01  The Battle of Fort Armak

     That night, the fort was attacked by hobgoblins.  They erupted
in force from holes which suddenly appeared in the ground inside
the fort.  The elves, humans and dwarves retreated to their
respective barracks.  The elves fired arrows from the roof.  The
dwarves presented a front to the hobgoblins and fought valiantly,
though sustaining heavy losses before being forced back into their
barracks house.  I'll never forget the eight of us trying to bar
and shutter the windows and doors of our guesthouse.  It took four
of us to close one window against the press of hobgoblins outside. 
Stenn, his face white, slammed it shut.  Sammy and Berry cowered in
a corner.  I think we all wanted to cower with them.

     We held the guest house (barely) killing about twenty and
capturing one.  Grizelda must have handled five of them single
handed.  I think Stenn was jealous.  He hates hobgoblins, but has
had less luck with the sword of late.  Credit for the capture
should go to Bjonri.  He tossed out a bottle crying: "Oh no!  I've
dropped my potion of fiery dragon breath."  The hobgoblin bought
it.  When he picked it up and drank it, he fell into a drugged
stupor.  The battle turned in favour of the defenders when the
fort's mage cast a spell and lit the entire central grounds with a
carpet of fire, killing hundreds of hobgobins.

     I took a cloak from a hobgoblin and tried it on, it was
magically cursed and I became very weak and incredibly stupid, I'm
told.  Bjonri did better.  He got a hat which allows him to
transform himself into a completely different creature.

     After the battle, Grizelda took our prisoner to the fort
commanders.  They turned him over to the interrogator.  He asked a
few questions of the hobgoblin who reacted only with defiance.  In
disgust and impatience, the interrogator sliced the creature's
throat, moving too fast for Grizelda to stop him.  Apparently this
man is known for such behaviour.

May 11/01

     Battle recovery.  People in the fort were very down.  There
had been quite a few lives lost during the battle.  Stenn has been
providing healing and consoling those who have lost friends.

     Bjonri befriended the fort druid.  They communed together and
with the spirit world through the agency of something called
"peyote."

     The hobgoblins returned to collect their dead.  This was
allowed by the fort commander even though it is known that the
bodies will probably be turned into thoals.  Apparently the
hobgoblins and the Tyglassian military honour the right of the
enemy to recalim their slain.

May 12/01

     We were awarded with medals of valour for our success in
battle.  Grizelda received the Flaming Sword of Valour for killing
SIX single handed, and I thought I was good, ha!  Her grin has been
almost as big as her nose ever since.

May 13/01

     The forests surrounding the fort are still infested with
hobgoblins.  It's a virtual siege.  We were summoned to General
Norcap's office.  He commands the fort.  He asked us to get help
for the keep so we're heading East again.  Sammy and Berry are
staying behind.  Hopefully they'll be safer there.

May 14/01

     We slept in a cave and Bjonri was attacked and subsequently
possessed by a Haunt.  The only things that would hit it were
Bjonri's sickle and Prothus' sword.  I had a chance to use the
sickle but, damn, Crux couldn't teach me to use it, the weapon of
Ahto's choice.  There didn't seem to be much we could do.  Once he
was possessed he insisted upon "returning to the light house", so
we simply accompanied him to a ruined tower which stood by the sea. 
Stenn is very concerned, but says he is not skilled enough to
perform an excorcism.

May 15/01  The Lighthouse

     Undead creatures came out of the ocean and attempted to kill
Bjonri. It was an extremely unpleasant battle (only the sword
worked against them). I fought using it for a while, but Prothus
was whining for the sword and getting on my nerves so I threw it to
him.  He can't catch worth shit, and the sword fell off the tower. 
Eventually, we killed them all.

May 16/01

     We stayed for recovery before continuing East.

May 17/01

     We finally reached Port Corvor.  The haunt was excorcised from
Bjonri by a cleric here.  I think we'll stay for a while now that
an army has been summoned to help the fort.  I made sacrifices to
Ahto (two 50 gp gems) and feel much better for it. Ahto granted me
a few powers:  immunity to water and I can identify pure water. 
Ahto blesses.

May 22/01

     Four of us got very ill, probably from the zombie things. The
healer was able to cure one of us each day, so we're staying at
least until we're all better.  I tried to do some spell research
and discovered its virtually impossible without a decent library.

May 23/01

     We've been approached to go on a quest for the king.  We've
accepted to travel to Poll Dubh Dorocka to get the Cauldron of
Plenty back from the giant known as The Balog Moor.  It used to
belong to a magician and they say it is bad luck to take it by
force.

     It's not going to be easy.  The Balog Moor is known to set
intelligent traps.  He's also a powerful foe.  What's more, Poll
Dubh Dorockra lies deep in the Badlands and we have to go through
Hobgoblin territory.  Stenn is sharpening his sword.  My half-
brother was raised by elves, in the same village as Prothus lived
When Stenn was young, their forest was invaded by hobgoblins. 
Apparently a ranger by the name of Morgan taught him how to use a
sword.  Morgan didn't like hobgoblin's either.

     I managed to get a map here (I copied the one shown to us). 

May 24/01

     We're on a boat heading North along the coast to the Donlookra
river, the northern border of Tyglas.  Stenn argued with the ship's
master for a while but he refused to take us into the Badlands,
which is the local name for the wild terrain north of the
Donlookra.  We met a few travellers at night while docked.

May 25/01

     Nothing exciting.

May 26/01  The Death of Sven (as recorded by his companions)

          Our boat was attacked today by humanoid creatures who
came up out of the sea.  They resembled hobgoblins, but had gills. 
Sven dived in to the water to attack them, but was soon
overwhelmed.  Stenn, the only other person who could swim dived in
to save his brother.  He too was overwhelmed and only Bjonri's
arrowfire saved the two.  Stenn was able to get his brother to
shore, but once revived, Sven valiantly and foolishly returned to
combat.  Unfortunately he was unarmed.  Stenn was unable to effect
a second rescue.  Sven's body was recovered.

     We and many of the sailors have survived, but our ship is
wrecked and we are in the Badlands.

Diary of Lorac the Bard

Jun 1/01

     I woke up today with no memory what-so-ever!  I had forgotten
everything!  There were a number of people around me, dead.
Although I'm not sure exactly, I pieced together the following from
things around the camp.

     I'm Lorac, a bard and I was travelling with Shotan, Reliantius
the Paladin, Garth and one other. We were looking for Sven Yahoo,
priest of Ahto, but I'm not sure why.

     There doesn't seem to be much I can do for them so I'll bury
them. I'm not sure, again, whose goose is here, but I'll take it
with me. I'll call it Bob.

     After leaving, I headed some direction and reached a road,
which I followed. I met a large group of humans and demi-humans
which I approached with a Phantasmal Force to judge their
reactions.  It seemed alright so I vaulted into the open.  The
dwarf didn't seem very impressed, pity.

     Half this group is heading South, the rest, whom I'm
travelling with, North.  Apparently they're a group of adventurers. 
The party heading South were sailors.  All of them were on the same
boat, but it was wrecked of the coast of the Badlands.  The
adventurers escorted the sailors back to inhabited lands and are
now turning north to resume their mission.  They are Stenn the
half-elf ranger/priest of Mielikki, Prothus the fighter elf,
Grizelda the hobgoblin killer from hell (a gnome), Throrn the
dwarf, Telgray the Bard, Bjonri the half-elf Druid and George the
torch bearer, a human.

     We seek a cauldron, ooh, what fun. While travelling we came
across a giants home.  People seem keen on it, so I guess this is
where the cauldron is.  The giant came across us, and demanded a
toll to pass.  We paid it and now we're heading away, but will
return soon.

Jun 2/01

     While on the path we met some small, rather stupid creatures,
Goblins I think, asking for directions.  After a brief discussion,
they attacked us, so we slaughtered them all.

     That night while on watch a large creature, an ogre, was
moving about in the woods.  Bjonri attacked it for nor apparent
reason with an entanglement spell.  We decided that it would be
best to leave since the ogre had done nothing to us.

     When we stopped again, the ogre had followed us and tried to
attack the camp.  Grizelda bested it using illusionary magic pair. 
We tied it up.

     Throrn and Stenn were attacked by a giant centipede.

Jun 3/01

     We've headed out towards the Balog Moor's cave again. We
knocked out the ogre, untied him and left.  Hopefully he'll be
alright.

Jun 8/01  The Lair of the Balog Moor 

     We entered the cave of the Balog.  He should be sleeping.
Although there are a large number of passages, the Gods led us
almost directly to the room of Balog.  We found a secret room
nearby, an excellent hiding place and place of supervision since
there was a small peephole into the Balog's room. It was apparently
a sorcerers study room.  Within it we found some texts on various
things.  He was evidentially wealthy, as a solid silver chandelier
and a solid brass brazier revealed.

     While entering, we found it necessary to climb down a wall,
60', George slipped and fell the full distance dying horribly. Gods
bless him.

     From the secret room we could see the Balog's sleeping
quarters, within which was the cauldron we sought, and a vast
quantity of gems, jewels, gold and so on. When the Balog left, we
went in, took the cauldron, and all the gold we could carry, and
returned to the secret room.

     The Balog, upon returning, discovered the cauldron missing,
and became very upset.  He placed two wolves to watch over the
room.  Prothus, spoke the command word which fills the cauldron
with stew.  The wolves were alerted by the smell.  We had to leave
immediately.

     We formulated an escape plan, a problem since it takes four of
our strongest to lift the cauldron.  Furthermore, we needed to lift
the cauldron up the 60' we climbed down.  We used two summoned
Mounts to haul it up, and used them to carry it out.

     As we were leaving the Balog returned.  We hid in a side
passage, which he luckily didn't take, and we escaped unharmed if
not unshaken.  Once out, we continued down the mountain trail, 
until we and the Mounts were exhausted.  Fortunately we had lost
the Balog by this time.  Perhps he was fooled by a false trail we
constructed halfway through the day.

Jun 11/01

     We're still heading down the mountain using the conjured
Mounts to carry the cauldron.  The Balog is not in sight.

Jun 12/01

     It seems that none of us know where we are, nor which
direction to go, so we're continuing down.  We reached a river
which will, hopefully, lead us to the ocean.  The cauldron floats--
barely--which makes moving it much easier.

  I've become very sick, I suspect as a result of a scroll I found
in the study room within the Balog Moor's cave.  It caused me to
flash purple at the time, but has had no other obvious effect. 
Strange that Grizelda hasn't been similarly taken ill.  She too
flashed purple light.

Jun 13/01  Battle of the Sinking Hobgoblins

     We were attacked by hobgoblins at the side of the river.  We
found ourselves in a triangle, with two fronts of advancing
hobgoblins (about 20 in each) and the river at our backs.  I was
too sick to assist in the battle.  We were terribly outnumbered and
owe our escape to the druid.  Bjonri read a spell off a scroll. 
The ground beneath the one line of hobgoblins turned into an oozy
mess.  The hobgoblins on that side sank to their deaths.  Still
outnumbered, we set upon the remaining front.  Prothus displayed
his fighting skill, his sword dancing between hobgoblin ribs. 
Stenn took delight in the fight.  He usually doesn't display such
battlelust.  The gnome can add a few more hobgoblin skulls to her
trophy room.  All forty hobgoblins were slain.

     Still bleeding, our thrill of victory was cut short as we
spotted a veritable army of hobgoblins on the far side of the
river.  The group that attacked was the size of a mere patrol by
comparison.  Were it not for the river, they could have rushed us
easily.  They were looking for a way to cross.  Ten Prothus' and
ten Grizelda's could not have saved us.  But one druid could.  He
rushed forward, crying out in defiance to the yellow eyed host: 
"This battle is ours!"  In unison our enemies raised their spears
and clapped them once on their shields in salute.  They turned back
and melted away into the forest which now looked a far more
threatening place.

     Strangely, Bjonri is now being followed by a moose, though he
doesn't seem to have any control over it.  He refers to it as a
friend.  Stenn seems to understand.  He has also informed me that
the moose is a sacred creature to Mielikki worshippers.

Jun 14/01

     We're still following the river.

Jun 15/01

     We're continuing down the river.  We're pretty much out of the
hills.

Jun 16/01

     The river we were on feeds into a larger river, which we're
now following.  There was a bridge of stone across the first river,
fairly new according to Grizelda who claims that any respectable
gnome would see that.

Jun 17/01  The Death of Grizelda

     We met a caravan heading South to Iatanor. They've agreed to
assist us in transporting the cauldron, for a small fee. I'm
feeling even sicker. 

     After Stenn and Prothus had gone to speak with the caravan
leader, these things, which look a lot like gnolls (were actually
flinds) attacked us from the hills to our left.  Stenn and Prothus
returned to help, but half of our party was dropped: Grizelda,
Stenn, Bjonri, Prothus, and both of the guards with us.

     Grizelda is dead, and Prothus is in seriously bad shape, he's
got blood coming out of his mouth.  Hopefully, the caravans' priest
can help us out.

     He healed Prothus and tells me I should be better tomorrow.
He's taken Grizelda away saying that her soul could not have
journeyed far and that perhaps he could call it back.

Jun 18/01  Grizelda Returns!

     The priest Devon, came by today and healed me.  I'm all
better.  I paid homage to Dionacecht, and Devon gave me a wooden
cross.  Stenn and Bjonri seemed cool in their attitude toward
Devon.  I don't really understand this religious stuff.

     Some merchants tried to sell us books and paintings.  I tried
to sell him my books.  He offered 25 gp, so they're probably worth
about 40.

     Grizelda walked into camp behind Devon looking hale and
healthy!  Devon explained the ressurection.

     Bjonri attempted to take credit (or rather give credit to
Mielikki) for this miracle resulting in a confrontation between us. 
I insisted that Mielikki had had nothing to do with it.  Bjonri
became enraged.  I could barely move, as I was sick, and he hit me
then stabbed me!  I've agreed to write a song in tribute to
Mielikki.  Stenn was not around to watch this exchange.  I wonder
if all priests of Mielikki are this violent.

Jun 19/01

     We're heading South again, we came across Fort Armak.  It
seemed vacated but we were admitted with little difficulty.  There
are scant troops here and they were hungry till we fed them.  It
appears everyone else has been here before.  This is where they
received their medals.  Bjonri went looking for a druid friend.

Jun 23/01

     We've been travelling.

Jun 24/01

     We saw the dreaded Lord Rath on the road.  He caused quite a
disturbance, everyone cleared off the road and averted their eyes
as he thundered by on his charger.  I saw he had a full set of
plated armour, jet black, with huge horns projecting from his
helmet.  His horse was similarly attired.

Jun 25/01

     We have entered Iatanor finally. The Ri Lukra now has his
cauldron back so our quest is complete.

     I attempted to sell the books I found by visiting the local
mages Barnac, Siaric, and Yen.  I sold two of them to Yen and the
third was stolen by Siaric.  I'm now looking for a hired hand to
carry things for me.  I didn't realize how little I can actually
carry.

     Grizelda and the others have gone to sell the jewellery they
found at the Balog Moor's.

     There was a great feast held at the castle by the Ri Lukra,
and wow what a feast!  We were the guests of honour.  Stenn made a
speech about how we killed Lord Cooz of the Hobgoblins.  Stenn
seems to have given himself most of the credit.  Prothus was angry
about this.

Jun 27/01

     I found a job working at a bar for 10 gp for the week.

     Our party has made a contract with Lord Randall to collect
some spores from the mushroom people off to the Southwest.

Jun 28/01

     During the day I've been working on the song (as by agreement
with Bjonri and Stenn) for Mielikki.

     Throrn was on his way to the jewelers with Stenn for company,
when they were approached, out of an alley, by the ten city guard
demanding to see in their packs.  After some argument they complied
and the city guard insisted they disarm (probably a result of
Throrn's generally belligerant attitude).  Stenn also complained
about the way in which they were treating him, a priest.

     The guard refused to believe the wealth of jewellery came from
the Balog Moor nor that Throrn and Stenn had even gone on a
northerly mission for the Relookra.  The guards did not seem
concerned with my friends threats to tell the Ri what had happened. 
The guard officer simply replied that the Ri did not run the city
guard.  Throrn decided to head for the Ri Lukra's palace, ignoring
the guards, and a fight ensued.

     Stenn was wrestled to the ground, crying out to passers by
that he was a priest of Mielikki beset by brigands.  People
stopped, for it is no small thing to attack a holy man, but no one
interfered.

     Throrn is even stronger than Grizelda.  Three times he was
knocked to the ground and three times he forced his way through a
pile of guards to his feet.  At one point he was tied, but managed
to burst his way out.  On the third sequence, Throrn lashed out at
the lieutenant with a wicked blow to the head, crushing his skull. 
Then he was taken from behind and this time he did not get up.

     They were taken to the city jail.

Sol 1/01

     We've noticed Throrn and Stenn are missing.  Yesterday's
events were related to us later.  We asked Joe the jeweller and
Prothus (who told us) about them.

Sol 2/01

     Bjonri managed to have Stenn released for the collection of
mistletoe, something about a full moon.  Stenn's holy symbol was
taken off him, quite the issue it seems.

Sol 3/01

     I hired a guy to carry my stuff, a guy called Biff.  He's a
mute, but he's a big guy.  He should be able to carry a lot.

Sol 4/01

     What a boring day.  I'm taking tomorrow off.

Sol 5/01

     Rather than working at the bar today, I cast Find Familiar. I
received a cat that seems to prefer the name Gwen.  I can see in
the dark now.  Cool!

     Grizelda's dog seems to be well trained now.  I think she's
more attached to that dog than to any of us.

Sol 6/01

     I met up with Bjonri and Prothus today.  They have a plan for
revealing (discovering) the wickedness which resulted in Throrn's
and Stenn's jailing.

Sol 7/01

     We, Grizelda and I, tailed Bjonri and Prothus, to Lenny the
Jeweller.  They have some rocks in a pack instead of jewels.  We
noticed, and tailed, some guys listening at Lenny's door while
standing outside.  We followed them to a bar, where we overheard
them talking about Bjonri, Prothus.  Later they returned to talk to
Lenny.  We felt we had better not tail them further; it would have
looked too obvious.

Sol 8/01

     A couple of us went to see Randal to get a delay on our
contract.  He'll be in the city for another 5 days.  We have to
contact him before then.  We seem to be at a dead end in helping
Throrn.  Bjonri and Prothus have returned to Lenny's this time with
one of the Ri Lukra's 100 gp gems as a 'sample'.

     Lenny and his men attacked them.  Grizelda and I, backing up
again, went in to help.  All of Lenny's men dropped.  After
disarming them I checked for onlookers outside, attempting to
casually distract them, circled around the block and went back in. 
Somehow, Lenny escaped.  We're leaving.  Bjonri and I will watch
the front, Gwen the back.  Prothus went to advise the Ri.

     Some 'shady' characters entered a bit later.

     Prothus returned with the Ri to discover the men we left
unconscious (but bandaged) had all been slaughtered in cold blood. 
Prothus was subsequently detained.

     Afterward, Bjonri and Grizelda left the city and I risked
going to the Ri for assistance.  However, he let me know that our
situation was pitiful.  He said he couldn't help at all and we
should hunt down Lenny.  He got me out of the city, magically.  
After but three paces I was outside the walls, and lost.  Although
I had planned to wait until nightfall, to see light from the city,
I was able to follow Gwen back to the temple.

Sol 9/01

     I talked to Dirtal to send message to Bjonri and Gwen. Bjonri,
disguised went into the city and asked some questions of certain
people.  He discovered a link between Lenny and the city guard,
some guy named Captain Pine.  Bjonri seems in his element when he's
doing something involving deceit.  Thank the gods he's on our side-
-I think.

Sol 10/01

     Bjonri got into the city guard through Lenny and had an
uneventful first night.  He's using his hat to disguise himself as
a human.

Sol 11/01

     Bjonri managed to get Sylar, the group leader, to take
Peyotee.  He also managed to confirm our suspicions about the
guards corrupt behaviour.  Bjonri really likes this undercover
stuff.

Sol 12/01  Jail Break

     Captain Pine has asked his guards to bust Throrn, Stenn and
Prothus out of jail.  The idea is to fake a battle, and kill all of
the above as well as any incidental witnesses.  Bjonri told them
where they could find us, that we would have a good reason for
being in the jail -- as prisoners.

     So Grizelda and myself, looking glum, went with Bjonri (still
disguised) and the guard to the jail.  Although Bjonri called out
the warning to the real guard a little early we battled them and
managed to save one (possibly two) witness.  We freed Stenn and
Throrn.  They looked pretty haggard.

     Then Captain Pine appeared.  Bjonri told me to hold him back
for a minute and he'd cast a 'sure fire' spell on him.  I held him
for a while but the spell didn't work and as I was being cut to
pieces.  I faked dropping.  Pine stepped over me to chase the
others and I, a little hastily, attacked from behind.  Pine dropped
me.  The others managed to get away--with one of the honest guards.

     Our witness was taken to the Ri by Bjonri who after delivering
the guard to the gates, left to hide.  So did everyone else.  I,
unconscious, was locked in a cell.

Sol 13/01

     All of the charges against us were dropped, so apparently, the
witness' testimony was suitable.  Now we will be able to pursue our
quest for Randal the alchemist.

     Hopefully, I'll be able to regain consciousness, escape,
contact Ren (the mercenary eager to travel with me) and go with the
rest on this quest.

Sol 14/01

     We were talking to Randal again to confirm details of this
quest.  Throrn, it seems, has decided not to accompany us on this
quest.  Something about a city filled with corruption seems to
appeal to him.  However, we met with a human named Glendor, a
paladin of Ukko who desires to come.  I was not able to contact Ren
before leaving.  Before we left the city, Stenn purchased a hunting
cat which he has named Link.

Sol 15/01

     Prothus said in that offhand manner he usually affects, that
there were some giant rats in the camp last night that ate our
scraps.  They didn't do any harm though and soon left.

     We saw a few people on the road today, but nothing especially
dramatic.  Travelling is much easier now that Biff is carrying my
stuff.

Sol 16/01  Trollbridge

     We're nearing Canvale. Today on the road we came across a
bridge with two dead humans on it.  While looking them over, a huge
green thing-- a troll if I remember correctly the stories I've
heard--attacked us from under the bridge.  Although we were able to
smite it quickly, it came back to life!  We battled it a second
time.  Link proved a lethal pet.  Eventually we stopped it by
burning its remnants.  I wonder if that cynical dwarf Throrn would
beleive this.

Sol 17/01

     We passed through a very small town today, Umville, and
verified that we were still heading in the right direction.  It
seems that Glendor is a good guide for us.  We stopped for the
night at a ruined keep by the side of the road.

Sol 18/01

     During the night, all of our equipment was repaired.  In the
morning a small man (recognized to be a Brownie) appeared,
accepting our gift of thanks, some food and gold.  He returned the
gold, however, it not being useful to him.

     At the point where the road turned south we left it,
continuing our trek westward.  Hopefully, we won't get lost like we
did in the mountains.  Glendor appears to be competent in these
matters.

     We did reach the foothills described to us by Randal.  After
a long search we discovered a doorway with a large Rune carved in
the doorway frame.  There is no actual door.  Glendor suggest it is
Dwarvish.  Too bad Throrn isn't here to verify.  We'll go in
tomorrow.

Sol 19/01

     We've decided to wait another day before entering, we need to
be more prepared to enter.  While standing around preparing, and
discussing possibilities, a giant horned beetle came over the hill
at us.  It gored me after I cast Grease under it, which didn't
hinder it but severely inconvenienced the party.  However, Prothus
had (I'm told) an amazing hit and killed it.  I recovered later.

Sol 20/01

     When we finally decided to enter the cave we had some
problems.  The least of which was what to do with our menagerie--
the horses specifically.  We finally decided to let Biff take care
of them, though he was somewhat unsure of what to do with them
himself.

     Worse though, was getting through the door.  Apparently, the
Rune is one of fear -- our group couldn't get through without 
individuals running off in fear.

     Once inside, we found a huge maze of passages which seemed to
lead no-where.  Some frustrated bickering has ensued.  As usuaul,
Prothus was in the middle of it.  We argued for some time.  Stenn
and Grizelda also added their two cents.  Stenn is not blessed with
much patience.  Glendor just stood there in silent disapproval.  We
returned to the start to try again but achieved as little.

Sol 21/01

     The same drivel again today.  People are becoming very angry
with one another.  At least Throrn's not here to argue as well.

Sol 22/01  The Forest of the Myconids

     The party still had a lot of trouble deciding on a plan of
action.  Eventually, we left the passages, did some hunting and
returned.  Grizelda lost her dog to the fear Rune.  It ran off.
Some soot on the ceiling which had been noticed by some of us, but
not all, marked the trail to our goal.

     Inside we came across, but avoided, more flinds.  We did
eventually find the Myconids, they looked like huge mushrooms with
legs.  Though they had no visible mouth, they were able to
communicate using some sort of telepathy.

     They said it would be necessary to survive for six hours of
their forest--a forest of gigantic mushrooms.  We went through it,
wandered around for while, were attacked by some very strange
creatures and passed the survival test.  We were taken by the
Myconids and told to sit with them in this circle, whereupon a huge
quantity of spores were released so that we might 'meld' with them.
It was too much for me--it knocked me out.

     They asked us to help fend off the flinds in exchange for the
spores.  After a reasonably successful battle, we collected the
spores, as well as gems and gold from the flinds.

     We are heading now to Canvale to meet Randal to collect our
reward.

Sol 25/01

     My calendar is a few days out according to Bjonri.  The mind
meld must have lasted longer than it seemed.  This morning when we
awoke, at the mouth of the cave, we quickly discovered that Bjonri
and I have annoying rashes.  Grizelda is in even worse condition
with blisters.  Bjonri says its a result of contacting so much
fungus in the dungeon.

     While on watch, Grizelda noticed a creature which at first
looked like her dog but turned out to be a giant wolf, 10' at the
shoulder, with a horn protruding from its head.  It was quite
hostile.  After we killed it, Bjonri severed the head from the
body.  He wants to find out what it is.

Sol 26/01

     We found the road today.

Sol 27/01

     We saw some travellers on the road today.

Sol 28/01

     At the end of the day we reached Canvale. After setting up
camp, six mounted humans, five armed with lances, approached. The
walked up to Prothus and drew Prothus' sword right out of its
scabbard.  He then said "Nice sword", turned around and walked off
with it.  Arrogant bastard!  The five mounted men lowered their
lances menacingly.

     Prothus and Stenn followed them but their rode into the city
and they couldn't get admitted through the city gates.  Not until
Stenn and Bjonri exerted the prestige of their priestly orders and
threatening the disfavour of the gods, did we manage to gain
access.  By this time, the men we were chasing had disappeared.

     We met up with Throrn here as well as a girl named Divain. 
They and Bjonri went to a bar of low repute and discovered the
thieves.  Throrn followed them when they left, but they noticed him
and a battle ensued.  Although temporarily single handed, Divain
helped him defeat them, recovering the sword.

Jul 1/01

     We saw Randal for our reward and headed to the temple of
Mielikki.

     Bjonri took the wolfhead to the temple.  The mutation in the
wolf, is apparently the result of its parents eating a plant called
moon melon.  This plant, though once common, had supposedly been
eradicated from the land.  Apparently, it causes many bizarre
mutations in the children of the eater.

Jun 2/01

     We are waiting for tomorrow night, such that Bjonri and Stenn
can collect mistletoe.  

Jun 4/01

     We returned to the town to volunteer our services in the
hobgoblin war but have been asked to head northwest to Sysak to
investigate losses of herd animals, apparently by a large creature. 
Much suspicion has been laid upon Thadigran Dentiata, a local mage. 
A town mob 'attacked' his tower, but were invited inside kindly and
offered a tour.  Although he seemed nice, he did room with orcs,
his servants.  In any case, the townspeople have no idea what else
to do.  Thus outside assistance is necessary.

Jun 5/01

     We reached Sysak by the afternoon.  A desolate place, it is
devoid of farm life.  The only sign of life we saw was a man
cursing as he tried to move his wagon through the ford.  We
assisted him and discovered some interesting things.

     Recently, two townspeople's, Diater and Meekal's, mutilated
bodies were found after they had headed out to Thadigran's tower. 
A third, Grigor, was dragged off by what appeared to be orcs.  If
so, they were probably Thadigran's servants.

     Vladislav, the wagoneer, and his friend Nefald invited us to
the bar.  Grigor is their leader.  Neffin saw a werewolf and says
that a mysterious sleep came over him.  Further, we are told
Thadigran has strange visitors and a slave vampire girl.

     We did a proper burial for Meekal.

Jul 6/01

     We went to Thadigran's tower today, and were invited in, as
had been the townspeople.  As we were led through Thadigran's
study, Bjonri happened to notice some papers, on which Thadigran
had done some anagrams.  We learnt little else.

     We followed the trail of orcs from the site of the incident. 
They led back to the tower.

     Inspired by the anagrams we managed to work out variations on
Thadigran's name. We asked the town wise woman about NIGHT ADDER
and DREAD NIGHT, the second elicited a strong response.  In short,
the Dread Night is the time when evil conquers the land, a group of
mages follows this belief.

Jul 7/01

     We figure that Thadigran is more than likely the werewolf. The
smith who was killed, had been making a silver sword which led us
to believe this was knowledge Thadigran did not want leaked out.

Jul 8/01

     We are preparing an attack on the tower.

Jul 9/01

     Throrn was able to coat the ends of my staff with silver. This
ought to enable me to hit a variety of magical creatures, among
them, the werewolf.

Jul 10/01

     We couldn't find any entrance other than the one guard by the
wolves.  Thadigran observed us and tried to scare us off.  It
almost worked.  Eight of him appeared by the tower to turn us away. 
We successfully released his wolves however.

Jul 11/01

     We were attacked by huge cockroach things, Pedipalp I'm told,
which did brutal damage to my arm, it had grabbed me while I slept. 
We found some gems and a scroll inscribed with a levitate spell in
their nest.

Jul 14/01

     We've been resting. We noticed a large group of hobgoblins
which, on further investigation, seem to be heading to Canvale. We
sent a townsman, Bren, to the city with a message of warning.


Jul 15/01  The Storming of Keep Dentiata

     Last night, Throrn was enchanted to believe that Thadigren was
actually a nice guy.  After Bjonri cured him, we used Throrn to
gain access to the tower.  When the orc opened the door to admit
Throrn, we charged from the bushes and forced our way inside.  An
intense room to room battle followed.  Dentiata always kept behind
his orcs.  That didn't stop him from being hit by Throrn's arrow,
the most amazing shot I have ever seen.  It was shot from one end
of a corridor past the battling orcs and party members to hit
Dentiata square on.  He retreated.  Eventually we forced our way to
the hatch which led to the roof, Dentiata's last place of retreat. 
Grizelda and Throrn charged through the hatch to be met by a
painful bolt of darkness.  Grizelda could go no further.  Throrn
retreated briefly, but joined the general charge through the hatch.

      On the roof we found Dentiata, with his back to the
battlements, preparing to cast a spell.  His two remaining orc
guards barred our path from him.  Our swords carried the day. 

Jul 19/01

     We spent this time clearing out the tower, searching it for
useful items.  We found that the tower stairs led down to
catacombs.  There we found the people kidnapped from the town. Our
biggest gains were a ball of crystal, a wand, a book of spells, a
protective ring as well as some, in comparison, minor magical
objects.

     Stenn noticed a magical bag.  He found it after entering a
room from the center of which appeared a shadowy creature similar
to one we had fought in the cave of the Balog Moor.  Stenn, his
holy symbol held before him, cried "By the power of Mielikki,
begone!"  The shadow fled.  The bag turned out to hold a lot more
than it should have been able to for its size.

Jul 27/01

     We spent this time in Sysak to recover, to relax, and to allow
Grizelda time to identify the various items we picked up.  I learnt
a spell out of the book called Read Magic.  I met a nice girl named
Annie in this town--I'll have to look her up sometime again.

Aug 7/01

     Grizelda is still identifying things.  Throrn has been
spending his time learning how to smith weapons and can now,
apparently do it with some proficiency.  He redid my staff with
much better looking silver tips.

Aug 8/01

     We're trying to decide whether to go to Canvale for training
and to check up on the hobgoblins, or to try to deal with the moon
melons.  Stenn and Bjonri are in favour of dealing with the moon
melons.  Stenn says they are abominations and must be destroyed. 
Others among us believe that checking up on the hobgoblin movements
is more important.  If they have forces this deep in Tyglas, the Re
must be warned.

Aug 10/01

     Stenn and Bjonri carried the day.  We've decided to hunt for
moon melons.

Aug 11/01  The Siege of Moon-Orc Lair

     Not only did we find a large patch of these moon melons, (and
destroy it), we discovered a lair of orcs who apparently eat the
moon melons intentionally in order to strengthen their race. We
entered the cavern to fight this evil we have dubbed moon-orcs.

     After killing many of these creatures, right near the entrance
to the cavern, as well as some boulder-like creatures we were
weakened significantly.  We left to recuperate. While inside we did
notice one moon-orc casting spells and agree this is probably a
leader.

Aug 15/01

     We returned to fight and discovered that those we had killed
had been raised again!  Of course, they were expecting our return
which made entry more difficult.  After fighting the zombie-moon
orcs, some spider-scorpion things attacked us, as well as more
moon-orcs.  We came under fire from arrows shot through slits in
the wall.  We had a job to battle our way down the hall and into
this room.   The mage also made an appearance, shooting darts of
fire down the hallway at us.  As we were in reasonable condition,
we decided to barricade the arrow slit room and try to hold it. 
Further, all of those that attacked us appeared to be female.

     This night we were attacked en masse, a magical fog surrounded
the entrance and then some large moon-orcs in plate mail attacked. 
Thanks go to Grizelda, Stenn and his cat, Link, the only three to
stand at the end of the battle.  We recovered outside.

Aug 17/01

     We were resting outside, attempting to fully recover. We
noticed we were being watched, so we're going back to Sysak.

Aug 18/01

     We met Bertha, Paladin of Ilmatar here, in Sysak!

Aug 22/01

     We returned once again, briefly, and after another battle
actually had the opportunity to talk with the mage.  When we
refused to stop our attempt, he empowered the stone statues to
walk.  Bertha and I wanted to make a stand, but everyone ran.  We
almost got trapped between the golems and more plate mailed moon-
orcs, one of whom was armed with a sword which I recognized from
descriptions I had read in Dentiata's tower.  It was the Moon
Sword, a weapon of great evil.  Prothus was able to defeat this orc
and seize the sword.  The battle nearly turned against us, but we
made it to the door and out again.  We returned to Sysak after
burying the moon-sword.

     This night on Prothus' watch in the Inn, we heard crashing on
the main floor.  The golems had followed us here.  I stayed in the
room while some fought the creatures.  When the first finally
entered the room, it came straight at me and picked me up and threw
me across the room.  Bertha killed the other as it was entering the
room and I killed the first, weakened one, shortly after.

     Ania was, of course, upset with the damage to her bar.  I
assured her we would pay for the damages and leave the town, since
we were bringing this evil upon the town. The party, however,
especially Prothus, disagreed, so we stayed.

Aug 23/01

     Later in the night, almost morning, the Inn was torched.  We
helped people escape the Inn but during the ensuing chaos, Stenn
was kidnapped by the moon-orcs.

     We chased them back to the dungeon and confronted four moon-
orcs and the mage.  However, while dealing with the moon-orcs, the
mage escaped into the dungeon.  We think he probably had Stenn.

     We entered the dungeon again, meeting the weakest front yet.
Luckily we had the foresight to look for traps on the door, and
managed to disarm a trap similar to the blast of fire that hit us
at Thadigren's tower.

     It appears that Bertha will be a great help to our group,
however, this attempt on the dungeon involves a hostage.  Further,
Stenn is not assisting us and Grizelda seems to be very
uninterested in life.  None of Stenn, Bjonri, Bertha, nor the
physician at Sysak were able to help her.

     We also received a reply from the temple of Mielikki.  Bjonri
had sent a message with his bird stating our situation.  It
returned carrying three scrolls, two of which are medical, more
powerful than he can do however in curative spells, and the third
is an extremely powerful spell he says he can't use as long as
Stenn is being held.

     Hopefully, we can save Stenn and finish the destruction of
this evil lair.

     When we reached the statue room, Grizelda did a Hide spell on
Throrn who managed to get right in to attack the mage.  After he
was dead the rest of the dungeon was straight forward to clean up,
although we had some problems.  We found Stenn and freed him.  With
him was one other.  A strong looking fellow who spoke little.  He
was not interested in any of the treasure in the lair except for a
single sword.  When he picked it up, the sword spoke to him!  It
called him by name and said it was good to be together again.  We
did not know how to react to this.  The fellow simple turned and
left.

Aug 26/01

     We spent some time recovering outside before returning to
finish off the plate mailed moon-orcs and collect treasure.

Aug 27/01

     We're spending some time recovering since we've accomplished
our mission.  We also must deal with the evil sword we encountered. 
Hopefully, the priests will advise us.

Sept 1/01

     We're on our way to Canvale.  We came across a caravan that
had been destroyed, apparently by hobgoblins.  We can't be sure,
but it might have been the group we saw near Sysak.  Stenn now has
an owl which follows him.  He "met" it in the forest by the
ransacked caravan.

Sept 4/01

     I started training Biff to use the staff.  Hopefully, it will
be effective for him.  We reached Canvale and managed to get
Grizelda cured by the high priest.

     We met with someone from the Iron Ring and discovered our
party is both feared and respected.  He wanted to know who we were
working for and why we had attacked Dentiata.  He refused to
believe what we told him, which was essentially the truth.  He says
that we must be more powerful than we say we are to have
accomplished what we did:  rescueing Ft Armak, retrieving the
cauldron, defeating Dentiata etc..  He says we're too often in the
company of powerful people to be just a group of adventurers. They
(the Iron Ring) intend to make our lives difficult.

Sept 5/01

     We agreed to look for a merchant's Mastiff, a large dog.  He
suspects, strongly, that it was stolen to prevent it from entering
into the fights coming up in a few days.

     Bjonri and Stenn deplore the dog fights and are adamant about
the attempted release of all the animals.

Sept 6/01

     The party generally agrees that nothing anyone else says is
relevant or accurate. The focus of the conversation seems to be
what to discuss.

     Finally, we are going to try to rescue the dog.  The plan was
that I should distract the owner of the boat (where we discovered
it) while Throrn and Grizelda infiltrate the front end of the boat.

     After leading off a number of the crew using a Phantasmal
Force, we approached.  As I aggravated the owner (who is the
commissioner of the city guard!) this fantastically good looking
woman hijacks the ship!  I approached her and attempted to work out
an agreement for the release of the dog.  I realised this was Red
Francis!

     While in the captains quarters, a fight broke out-- apparently
Throrn attacked the crew.  Red Francis defended her crew, but
departed before we were decimated.

     It seems that Throrn released the commissioner.  I'm not quite
sure why.  In any case, the commissioner told us to keep our mouths
shut--or we would go to jail!

     In general, the party feels that Red's 'crime' of stealing the
boat is worse than the dog napping, and further, that she was
imposing on our freedom.

     I felt that she had done nothing wrong.  She accomplished
exactly what we intended to do, the liberation of the
"commissioner's" property, without loss of life.  Not only that,
but she seemed to make the crew a whole lot happier.  Is this evil?

     Throrn never did explain why he untied the dog-napping, two-
faced, lying, corrupted city official.  

Sept 7/01

     I'm staying at the Inn for the day.  I'm considering whether
I should continue to travel with these people of questionable
morals.

Sept 8/01

     I must remember to pick up the robe which I ordered to be
made.  I did remember to return to the weapon's shop to pick up my
darts and am training to use them.

     Later in the evening while at the Inn in our room discussing
a plan of action, the pirate came into the bar.  We went down and
made it as difficult as we could for her to charm the men in the
bar.  It seemed as though she was looking for recruits.

     She managed to charm Prothus and brought him up to the room
where we had gathered again.  However, she merely spoke to us,
explaining that she was following the law of the sea, hadn't hurt
anyone, and probably no one would have been hurt had we not
attacked.  She also mentioned she had difficulty believing our
"dog" story.

Sept 9/01

     Today, Stenn and Bjonri attempted to break the Mastiff out of
its cage at the Mastiff fighting ring.  It was a fiasco.  Stenn
almost got himself killed and as a number of powerful figures
gathered there, we decided to abandon the effort.  We will quietly
finish our training and leave the town.

Sept 11/01

     I hung out at the Inn's bar while Throrn and Grizelda were
trained.

Sept 12/01

     We've noticed a guy in the bar at the Inn that is extremely
quiet that sits by himself.  He carries a (poorly) concealed short
sword.

     I hired a crier to help me find a juggler.

Sept 13/01

     Evidently, the crier was successful.  A guy named Kane came to
the Inn and agreed to teach me to juggle.

Sept 14/01

     People are still training.  I'm still learning how to juggle.

Sept 15/01

     I can now juggle reasonably well.  Training continues.  Biff
still isn't quite grasping the use of the staff.

Sept 16/01

     While performing on stage I went completely and totally deaf. 
I continued to perform, except for the flute.

Sept 17/01

     I went to the temple of Mielikki to get my hearing fixed. They
told me it was indeed a magical affliction.  It cost me 800 gold.

Sept 18/01

     Since the cost for fixing my deafness drained all my funds, I
went to Mage Edson for a pre-payment on the spellbook I'm selling
him.  He gave me 200 gp.

     A Grease spell was cast against me while I was on stage. I
called Grizelda over to me, knowing she wouldn't come if she had
cast it.  However, she did come and slid across the stage after
falling on it.

Sept 19/01

     We have been requested by General Banask to do a recon through
Canamar to determine the extent of the hobgoblin attacks. Throrn
would prefer more specific details before tackling this assignment.

Sept 20/01

     We returned to General Banask. He paid us 200 gold each and
will pay the remainder of 800 gold each when we return.

     That night, most of the party went to a different bar to
determine whether the mysterious quiet guy was following us; he
doesn't seem to be.

     Apparently, the attacks made against me in the bar were not
all hostile--Grizelda cast the grease spell.

     Grizelda is having charges added to her wand.

Sept 24/01

     We are stocking up on heavy clothing for the quickly
approaching winter.  We have to wait for Grizelda's wand to be
recharged before we leave.

Sept 25/01

     Grizelda identified two of three magical potions we were
carrying.  They are curative.

     At night, we investigated an odour and discovered four bodies
in the next room.

Sept 26/01

     We finally are leaving Tyglas.  We crossed the bridge at
Canvale into Fellmore.  We had some troubles with the guard on the
far side. Apparently, we are carrying a suspiciously large quantity
of gems and gold.

Sept 27/01

     We're still heading souteast on the road towards Doddle.

Sept 28/01

     When we left our campsite, we were attacked by a gigantic 
humanoid spider creature (an ettercap) and a gnome-like creature
(spirag).  The attack started with two logs swinging down from the
trees.  These logs had some sticky material on them, effectively
trapping various members of our party.  We eventually won the
battle and removed the logs from, among other things, Prothus'
sword, Grizelda's feet, Stenn's hands and Throrn's torso.

     Although there appeared to be little of value here, we did
discover various other creatures (quite dead) trapped in a spider
web of massive proportion.

     Furthermore, there are the ropes that were used to hold the
logs which seem to be impervious to steel, even the magical blade
of Prothus.

Oct 1/01

     After an uneventful day of travel, we met with ogres, just
after setting up camp.  During the battle we were assisted by 
Magnar, a ranger that has agreed to join the troop.  He's almost
seven feet tall and carries ogre skulls on his belt.

     He has told us of an evil temple nearby.  We are considering
searching it out to destroy it.  Throrn feels we are breaking our
contract to scout for Hobgoblins.  Stenn and Bjonri think that it
is morally important to destroy the temple.

Oct 3/01

     We rest, discuss, heal and train.

Oct 4/01

     Some bizarre things happened during the night.  A ball of
light, much like the one Grizelda claimed to see out by the Balog
Moor's, was seen bounding around in the forest.  Divain attacked
it, for no obvious reason, though she explained her paranoia was a
result of the frequent attacks in the last few days.

     We are heading to the evil temple today.

Oct 5/01  The Lost Temple of Inbindarla

     Magnar knows the approximate location of the temple, but not
exactly where the entrance is to be found.  We came across a
walking, talking tree. It seemed rather pleasant but attacked when
we approached by trying to drop what can only be described as
nooses on us.  It surrendered when we used fire against it.  We
discovered that it was blocking the temple entrance we were
seeking.  It agreed to move in return for our promise to set it
free from the curse which holds it here.

     Beneath the entrance, we found a three hallways.  One passage
(which was unnaturally cold) led to a pit with spikes in the floor. 
The roof was a trap door.  Apparently, this was a trap.  Good thing
none of us were caught in it.  We went back to the main entrance
and took the second corridor.  There were some strange glass orbs
afixed to the ceilings.  They seemed to contain swirling mist.

     After walking along for awhile, something moved into the hall
in front of, coming from a side room.  At first I thought it was a
humanoid, but it was a walking corpse!  It took some hard fighting
by Magnar, who was in the lead, but we destroyed it.
We continued along the hall, which turned a corner.  A little
further along, our torches were snuffed out as a cold, howling wind
blew out of a side passage.  We moved forward out of the wind and
relit our torches.  At the end of the passage we found what must,
at one time, been a bedroom.  There was rubbish everywhere in here. 
Hanging on the wall above the remains of the bed was a large
sapphire, shaped as an octagon.  I took it down.

     We set out to explore the passage from which the wind had
come.  This passage, also unnaturally cold, led to another room. 
There was a huge black statue on the altar at one end.  Stenn
through holy water on it.  The surface hissed and stained as though
the water had been acid.  We now left to rest for a few days.

Oct 7/01

     Rest and recover.  Stenn is having trouble sleeping within
half-day journey of the temple.  Nightmares keep him awake.

Oct 8/01

     We returned to the temple.  We took the third passage from the
entrance.  It led past an old kitchen and storeroom, then led into
an area of magical darkness.  We felt our way to the right and
entered a new room, where we could see once again.  As we walked in
a wailing arose and human figures appeared on the walls.  They were
emaciated, almost skeletal, but even where they should have been
solid, one could see through them, as though they were ghosts.  We
feared attack, but the creatures were manacled to the walls,
however immaterially and made no move toward us.  They merely
continued their pathetic crying.  Stenn and I wanted to rescue
them.  Some in our group (Prothus and Throrn among them) thought we
shouldn't even try!  In the end it was no use.  We couldn't even
grasp their ghost-manacles, let alone cut them and no one knew of
a spell which could help.  We had no choice but to abondon them.

     We backed out of that room, returning to the darkness.  We
found another passage out.  It led to a long room.  There was a
large sarcophogus at one end.  The room itself was lined, either
side with skeletons.  As we stepped into this room, the skeletons
began moving toward us.  Prothus, Stenn and Magnar met their
attack.  We won, but were now further wounded when the sarcophogus
door opened.  A huge skeleton walked out (Magnar said it was an
ogre skeleton) brandishing a metal club.  Grizelda stood her ground
and traded blows with it.  The thing nearly took her head off with
one swing, but I,d forgotten just how strong that little gnome is. 
She deflected the club with her sword and launched an attack of her
own, shattering several ogre ribs.  By this time, Magnar, Bjonri
and I were by her side.  We followed Grizelda's example and added
an ogre skull to the bones littering the floor.

     We examined the sarcophogus from which the skeleton had
emerged.  The back was a wall with an octagonal shaped depression
in it.  When the sapphire was placed in it, the wall opened as a
door to a passage, rough hewn from the rock.  It led to an
underground lake.  There is a long, dark beach, and a single,
dilapitated dock.  On the beach was a skeleton with gems set in the
eye socket.  It proved not to be magical, but a feather, lying
nearby was.  The water receeded into the darkness.

     We turned back and went back to the altar room.  On the altar,
we found a book that was encased in glass.  There was an octagonal
depression in the glass.  I placed the sapphire in it and the glass
case opened.  We took the book out.  I opened it and read "Serpine
Lexicon" on the title page.  We left the temple once again.

Oct 9/01

     After praying for new spells, Bjonri cast a "Detect Evil" and
said the book was overwhelmingly so.  I discovered it was magical,
and Stenn decided to Bless the book.  A huge skeletal creature rose
from the book and almost destroyed us all, but mysteriously
vanished.

     Since the horses were still uneasy, (as well as most of the
party), we decided to split up.  Strength in numbers, I suppose.
While Prothus, Bjonri, and Grizelda were gone, I recalled the name
of the book was associated with legends of evil.  It is an ancient
book able to summon creatures of evil.  One priest of an old
religion used the book until it destroyed him.

     While the others were walking, the creature reappeared.  They
destroyed it.

     After the party re-united, we decided it was in everyone's
best interest to seek assistance from the Temple of Mielikki
regarding the book.  We will travel for 4 days towards the temple,
then send a messenger of Bjonri's to the temple.  Apparently
Mielikki grants him the power to ask the birds to carry messages
for him.

     We had a long discussion regarding party organization, most of
us appreciate the convenience of a large group but dislike the
frequent quarrels resulting from a variety of opinion.  I
recommended that Stenn be made leader.  He will have final say in
settling these quarrels.

Oct 10/01

     Last night, one of Grizelda's jokes set the group in an uproar
of argument, as well as actual physical attack.  She and Bjonri
crept into some nearby bushes and hid.  Grizelda cast an illusion
of their dead bodies lying in camp.  When the rest of woke up, we
saw our dead comrades.  Magnar detected figures moving around in
the bushes.  Assuming they were the attackers he fired arrows at
them.  Stenn cast an entanglement spell.  Grizelda was immobilized
and knocked unconscious by an arrow hit.  Bjonri managed to avoid
the entanglement spell and came out into the open to explain the
joke.

     Unfortunately, tensions were now high.  Stenn trained his bow
on Bjonri, demanding that he stop where he was.  Stenn had just
seen Bjonri's body lying on the ground and he was unsure if this
truly was Bjonri, or merely a monster in Bjonri form.

     It took a long time to calm everybody down.  Some comments
were of particularly questionable nature, such as, "I think she
[Grizelda] deserves to suffer for a while," "Go ahead, shoot, I
dare you to," "I'd like to know who exactly you [Magnar] really
are," and "Fine, I'm outta here."  Such a shame after making such
progress yesterday.

     We continued on our journey.

     Stenn is looking for berries as we travel.  Magnar has
suggested another Augury to clarify the one perviously done on the
book.  We would like to know if we can destroy it at all, without
destroying ourselves.  He also suggests the danger indicated by the
Augury Bjonri did previously, was the beast still luring about the
forest that came from the book.

     It's snowing.

Oct 11/01

     Stenn performed the Augury this time, asking, "Will it cause
us serious harm to try to destroy the book?" with the response,
"No."

     After some discussion we decided to try to destroy the book by
dropping it into a bonfire.  When we did so, Magnar saw something
run out of the fire.  Shortly after, we were attacked by a huge
dog-like creature with glowing red eyes.  After a brief battle, it
disappeared, and the smaller creature re-appeared. Again, a short
battle ensued before it disappeared, but upon guessing where it
ought to be, I managed to hit the invisible creature.  Magnar and
Prothus managed to follow its tracks in the snow and kill it.  The
book was unharmed by the fire.

     That night on first watch, a huge two-headed creature with a
spiked club in each hand burst from the forest.  I think it was an
Ettin.

Oct 12/01

     We sang happy birthday for Grizelda.  We spent the day
recovering.  Grizelda cast a spell and determined that the wand
from the temple will fire magic missiles.  I will carry it.

     In the meantime, Stenn has decided it will be safest to keep
The Book in his magical bag.  He doesn't think anything can get out
that way.

Oct 13/01

     We reached Doddle today and sent a message to the temple near
Canvale about The Book.

     We discovered from fighters in the local bar of this small
town (about 60) news of the hobgoblins is common. They intend to
sell their service in Tyglas.

     One of them, who had been in The Isles, said it was a
dangerous and dreadful place. He also mentioned "The Golden
Empire," a place to the south of the Isles, he heard about while
there.  Furthermore, the Black Eagle Barony (to the West) is
supposed to be the centre of the Iron Ring.

Oct 16/01

     Stenn's owl arrived with a message instructing us to await
Peath's (the high priest of the temple) arrival.  This must be
major!

Oct 17/01

     Biff seems competent with the staff, finally.

Oct 18/01

     Peath arrived today with an entourage of followers.  He
provided a lot of information about The Book, received from Edson.

     The Serpine Lexicon's (aka Cripto-Chronus, Book of Horrors,
Grimoire, etc.) first known appearance was thousands of years ago
when Ezaria summoned The Book from worlds beyond.  Sages agree
Ezaria went mad using the Grimoire for his evil purpose: attempting
to summon the ultimate beast of destruction to destroy the world.

     For 500 years nothing was heard, until Adazat recovered the
book and unleashed its powers.  He eventually went insane and
committed suicide by ingesting Green Slime.

     His apprentice Elmorith inherited The Book and used it, once
again, to summon creatures of evil.  He managed to gain a lot of
power as the leader of a religious sect.  However, Elmorith lost
the book in a Necromantic duel with his ally.

     Only now has it turned up, for the first time in hundreds of
years, in the temple of Inbindarla.

     Edson suggests, the only way to destroy The Book is to return
it to its plane, (the place from where it was summoned). By taking
the book to Melnibone where the river Styx is said to "cross our
world," and placing the book there.

     We've decided to send Stenn and Magnar to Canvale to discuss
either modification, interruption or cancellation of our contract
to scout hobgoblins.  Hopefully, we will be able to pursue the
contract, sending messages to Canvale by hireling.  Once we reach
the West coast, we will continue or journey towards Melnibone to
destroy the book, as Stenn and Bjonri are obligated to do so.

     While in Canvale, Stenn and Magnar intend to gather
information about Melnibone and petition Edson to identify the
feather, ring and potion.

     We will travel to the border with them.

Oct 20/01

     We travel and reach the border. While Stenn and Magnar travel
across to Canvale, we will wait here.  They managed to cross
without a problem and arranged the contract suitably with General
Banask.

Oct 21/01

     After speaking with Peath, we received a scroll for
protection.

     Edson relayed: The Melniboneans are very similar to grey elves
and highly magical in nature, maligned in intent and known to have
ridden dragons.  It is within the Imperial City the river Styx is
said to pass, thus giving the Melniboneans there heightened
military power.

Oct 23/01

     After waiting for Edson to cast Identify and receiving a mace,
sword and hammer made from cold steel (apparently useful in hitting
some of the creatures we've met) Stenn and Magnar returned.  The
feather is a magical device known as Quall's feather token. 
Apparently it turns into a boat.

     We are following up first on the temple, as suggested by
Edson, it may provide us with more information about The Book.

Oct 24/01

     We met with a camp of ogres and, under Stenn's leadership
managed to organize battle to destroy them all, efficiently.  We
continue on our journey to the Temple of Inbindarla.

Oct 25/01

     We met with Bertha and continued travel.

Oct 26/01

     We reached the temple site once again.  While travelling, we
had a long discussion about carrying the book back into the temple. 
It was decided the lesser risk was to bring it back into the temple
rather than leave it unguarded outside.

Oct 27/01

     We re-entered today and used Quall's feather token, which
turned into a boat as promised, and set out into the underground
lake.  We could hear distant cries of pain coming from out of the
darkness.  The cavern continued for some distance slowly narrowing
into a twisting passage.  Our magic boat sailed noislessly on past
dead bodies floating in the water.  As we sailed into their midst
they began to move.  Stenn organized a defense of the boat,
steering it away from our attackers.  I attacked two of them with
my staff as they tried to climb over the side of our boat.  On the
other side, Magnar was hacking them in twain with mighty blows from
his sword.  Grizelda and Prothus did the same at the back of the
boat until all the water-zombies had been destrayed.

     The passage opened up into a large cavern.  In the middle
there was an island, piled with treasure.  In the centre of the
island was a pale skull at its peak, apparently inert.  We stepped
onto the island to load the treasure.  Breaking the silence, a
vaguely human shaped skeleton rose out of the black water.  It
attacked and sunk its fangs into Divain.  Flesh began to appear its
the bones.  Stenn swung at it with his sword, but although the blow
ought to have sundered it of a limb, it had no effect.  Neither did
the blow which Magnar dealt it.  Divain began to pale.  Grizelda
moved forward weilding the new club she had won from the ogre
skeleton.  This time the blow took effect, but did not shake the
creature from Divain.  Grizelda spoke the magical word inscribed on
the club "Alumine" and it burst out in brilliant light.  The
skeleton reared up with a scream and dropped Divain, then splashed
back into the water, leaving as suddenly as it had come.  Shaking,
we hurriedly through the treasure into the boat and made back
toward the beach, looking over our shoulders the whole time.  I
don't think anyone spoke a word on the trip back, save for Stenn
giving out terse commands to steer the boat.

     We reached the beach and unloaded the seriously wounded
Divain.  Bjonri examined her wounds and applied some salve.  She
had lost an awful lot of blood.  Both he and Stenn looked
concerned.  The rest of us examined what we had found in the
treasure chest.

     The next I knew, Stenn was crying out in alarm and fumbling
for his holy symbol.  The skeleton thing was back.  It sped by
Magnar who had turned to meet it, by Stenn and straight for Divain. 
Everybody rushed it.  Once again most of our weapons had no effect. 
Only Prothus' sword and Grizelda's staff would damage it.  It dug
its fangs once again deep into Divain's neck.  I could see blood
leaking out around its newly forming lips.  I could hear Bjonri
casting a spell.  Then Prothus' sword struck downward in a high
arc, severing the now mostly formed flesh of the creature.  Once
again, it tossed away Divain and before our eyes it melted into
gas.

     With a cry of triumph Bjonri let forth his spell.  The air
before him began to swirl as his "Dust Devil" was called into
being.  He ordered it to attack the now gaseous bloodsucker.  The
combat that ensued was strange.  The Dust Devil attempted to
envelop its prey, but the creature managed always to slip from its
grasp.  The two combatants moved out over the lake into the
darkness.  Eventually they disappeared and the sounds of whirling
winds died away.  Bjonri didn't seem to think his Dust Devil was
around anymore.

     We got ready to leave.  The treasure we had found was heavy so
Stenn prepared to load it in his Bag of Holding.  When he opened it
the gas-thing came charging out of the darkness.  It went straight
for the open bag--the one that contained The Serpine Lexicon.

     We were all exhausted and wounded so we were forced to spend
the "night" here on this eerie subbterrainean beech.  Although
Stenn cannot sleep some of us managed to get some rest.  I spent
the time reading one of the books found on the island -- it
discusses various aspects of health and some exercises to perform.

Oct 28/01

     We searched the last corridor in the temple today.  It lay
behind a secret door in the altar room.  We had to fight a skeleton
creature in the passage (not like the skeleton-bloodsucker thing). 
After yesterday, this is beginning to seem like routine.  The
passage led to a mist-filled room.  We could find nothing in there,
though Grizelda said something definately brushed by her leg. 
Before we left the temple we tipped over the altar-statue and
destroyed it.  The strange fire disappaered.  The magical lanterns
were extinguished and Stenn could finally sleep without being
overcome by a feeling of dread.  Our mission there was done.

Nov 1/01

     We spent time studying and left the temple.  The curse, we
think, should be broken, so we told the Hangman tree it could
leave.

Nov 2/01

     At Doddle we sent a message to Peath to tell him about the
creature in the bag and ask for advice.  We think it is safely
trapped within.

Nov 4/01

     Grizelda identified things as we awaited Peath's reply.  It
came.  "The creature you are dealing with is a vampire!  Do not
attempt to confront it under any circumstances.  It will destroy
you all!"

Nov 6/01

     We're heading to Canvale to have our treasure changed.  Their
was some consternation when we realized that most of our treasure
was in the bag.  Could we open it without letting the vampire out? 
Bjonri seems to think it will be okay as long as it is daylight. 
Stenn cast an Augury.  The answer that came out was yes.  We opened
the bag with no ill effects.

Nov 7/01

     We spoke to the High Priest at the temple of Ukko to return
the cold iron weapons and try to have Divain healed.  The vampire
apparently weakened her greatly -- and permanently!!!  We'll
probably be in town for a long while for the treasure changing.
Hopefully, the Iron Ring won't be a problem.

Nov 8/01

     I went into town with Throrn today.  We dropped into a tavern
called the "Red Hair" as recommended by Divain.  While there, a
group of Iron Ringers approached us.  Their leader, after asking
where the rest of us were, said they would have to come into town
to find us.  The leader left us to his men, whom we slaughtered (I
drank the beer which they offered, which was poisoned, I passed
out.)

Nov 9/01

     Grizelda and Prothus have gone to see Edson and Roask.
Although we have camped outside of town to avoid the Ring, we are
considering movement to avoid troubles.

Nov 13/01

     We've been travelling in circles. Grizelda and Throrn have
gone into town to do Identifies with Roask.

Nov 15/01

     Prothus, Grizelda, and Magnar went into town to retrieve magic
items from Roask.  He wasn't home so they returned the following
day.

     We tried to cross the border at the bridge.  We were hassled
for carrying skulls, money, herbs, and other things.  Many
questions were asked when they discovered The Book.  We were turned
back.

     We had some trouble recovering Magnar, he had swum across with
many of our possessions to meet us.

     We will head west to cross the river where it is shallower.

Nov 19/01

     We found a hobgoblin camp at the crossing Magnar told us
about.  We destroyed it and about 40 hobgoblins.  Now, we're
travelling South to avoid more hobgoblins.  The ones that ran may
get reinforcements.  Although it is almost dusk, we'll travel until
midnight.

Nov 20/01

     While travelling, a manticore attacked. It was difficult to
fight since it flies, but it succumbed, none-the-less.

Nov 21/01

     While travelling West along a tributary to the Frontier River
we came across a marsh.  Unwilling to try to go around it to the
North, we've decided to cross it.  It seems to be safely frozen. 
Magnar says the marsh is large, large enough to be named.  It is
called "The Vales".

Nov 22/01

     We travelled well into the night in order to find a rise of
land suitable to set up camp.

     Divain heard noises while on watch but nothing transpired.
We'll continue west in the morning.

Nov 23/01

     We looked for and found roughly humanoid tracks.

     While travelling with caution, a group of lizardmen attacked
us. I managed to break the ribs of one, rendering it helpless.
After killing the rest, Bjonri determined the creatures were not
evil, so we attempted to help out the remaining one by patching its
wounds and leaving it with food.

Nov 24/01

     We continued west through the marsh on the North side of the
river until we reached a bridge.  Although the bridge was safe,
there were pits completely blocking the far side.

     We're following the road South.

Nov 25/01

     Finally, we left the swamp.

Nov 26/01

     Grizelda levitated up to see our surroundings.  She saw what
appeared to be a small village further down the road.

     Later, we encountered the village Rometh.  They were surprised
we survived travel through the swamp.

Nov 27/01

     Although one days provisions were provided, further purchases
would cause undue hardship on the small village.  We came to a
mutually agreeable solution.  A villager will accompany us to a
town west of here and we will pay for a guard to accompany him back
to his home.  Thus he will be able to restock for the remainder of
the winter.

     No sign or rumour of hobgoblins here.

Dec 1/01

     Travelled South to the cross roads then headed West.  The
weather has broken finally, the clearer sky is nice.  Later, we
captured an orc (the 'pigface' the villager had mentioned.)

Dec 2/01

     Grizelda rode in the wagon with the captured orc but it broke
free so she killed it.

Dec 4/01

     We reached Whiteheart.  This "large town" has about 40
buildings.

     Grizelda played one of her jokes while I was on stage.  This
time I broke my flute because of it.  I felt I had warned her
frequently enough about interfering with my profession, so I
Shocking Grasped her.

     In the meantime, the girl that was chasing Bjonri, gave up and
dove for Magnar, then left with him to a private room.  Her husband
came looking for her, and knocked Magnar out.  He tried to take
Magnar's sword, but Bjonri heated it using a spell.
     
     After the husband dropped the sword, Throrn followed him.  He
was invisible at this point, a result of Grizelda's spell.  At his
house, Throrn hassled him, became visible and was chased out into
the woods.  There he fought and beat the guy, and finally returned
to town.

     The town folk are now looking for Throrn.  We discussed our
possible actions.

     Stenn healed Grizelda.  I hope she learnt her lesson.  It's
not exactly a punishment I enjoyed handing out.

     I finished reading that book. I feel quicker some how.

Dec 6/01

     We arranged to pick up grain at the mill for our horses.

     Throrn talked to the council and paid a fine of 5 gp.  When we
exited the town, we discovered Bjonri had stolen the oxen they'd
suggested Throrn might be responsible for stealing.

     Of course, I insisted it be returned.

Dec 7/01

     This day passed while we travelled West.  We heard more about
a rider by himself searching for us, heading West ahead of us.

Dec 8/01  The Day of the Portal

     We continued West.  As night fell, a horse approached the camp
-- it is apparently the rider that we've heard about.  He says he
is the Mage Stire sent by The Re, via Mage Yen with an important
message for us.

     He is very cautious, and requests us to accept a spell (Detect
Lie) to determine if we are who we say we are.  He asked us many
question about Dentiata and our involvement.  He didn't recognize
Magnar.  He had joined us later.

     Well, we believed him and were attacked.  He cast a holding
spell on Magnar, Prothus and Throrn then cast globes of force,
balls of fire, and bolts of lightening.  He was assisted by about
20 Draconian warriors.  Link was killed at the outset by a
draconian.  All but Grizelda and Bjonri were helpless, but they too
were soon under his wicked control.

     They bound us and searched all of our stuff.  Stile found the
bag.  We warned him not to open it, but he simply assumed we had
something valuable in it that we didn't want released.   He didn't
heed our warning.  He should have.
