Path: uuwest!spies!apple!usc!sdd.hp.com!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!lll-winken!terminus!nyssa
From: nyssa@terminus.UUCP (The Prime Minister)
Newsgroups: rec.arts.drwho
Subject: Companion Analysis (Updated: 26 Jul, 1990)
Keywords: Monthly Posting
Message-ID: <22995@terminus.UUCP>
Date: 5 Sep 90 12:28:46 GMT
Expires: 8 Dec 90 09:50:45 GMT
Sender: news@terminus.UUCP
Organization: Terminus
Lines: 693

To understand my background when considering companions, I first present
my "credentials":

I have seen every Doctor Who episode which is available on television in
episode form, this means all of Sylvester McCoy, all of Colin Baker,
all of Peter Davison, all of Tom Baker, all of Jon Pertwee, "The Mind
Robber", "The Dominators", "The Krotons", "The Seeds of Death", and "The
War Games" from Patrick Troughton; and "An Unearthly Child", "The Dead
Planet", "The Edge of Destruction", "The Keys of Marinus", "The Aztecs",
"The Sensorites", "Land of Giants", "The Dalek Invasion of Earth", "The
Rescue", "The Romans", "The Web Planet", "The Space Museum", "The
Chase", "The Time Meddler", "The Ark", "The Gunfighters", and "The War
Machines" from William Hartnell.

I have also seen episodes from "The Reign of Terror", "The Dalek
Masterplan", "The Celestial Toymaker", "The Tenth Planet",
"The Moonbase", "The Abominable Snowmen", "The Enemy of the World",
"The Web of Fear", "The Wheel in Space", "The Invasion", and
"The Space Pirates".

I have read almost every paperback.

I have heard audio tapes of "The Power of the Daleks," "The Highlanders"
and "Evil of the Daleks".

I have read "The Dalek Masterplan" by Rosemary Howe (Australia).

I have seen clips from other missing episodes, most notable for this
discussion is the clip of Katarina's death.

I have even sat through the two movies.

I have met at various times Nicholas Courtney, Fraser Hines, Deborah
Watling, John Levene, Katy Manning, Richard Franklin, Elisabeth Sladen,
Ian Marter, Louise Jameson, John Leeson, Lalla Ward, Matthew Waterhouse,
Sarah Sutton, Janet Fielding, Mark Strickson, Nicola Bryant, Bonnie
Langford, and Sophie Aldred (although I have sincere doubts that some
of them would remember me!)

Based on the above, I feel that I can present myself as an "expert"
on the question of companions.

I shall address each companion in the order of their first appearance
on the show as a companion.

Barbara Wright played by Jacqueline Hill.
	First appearance:  Episode 1, An Unearthly Child  23 Nov. 1963
	Last appearance (regular): Episode 6, The Chase   26 June, 1965
		(The Planet of Decision)
	No reprises of the role outside of flashbacks.
	Also appeared as Lexa in Meglos, 27 Sept. - 18 Oct. 1980

		Barbara Wright was a school teacher from the Coal Hill
	School in London, who's entry into the TARDIS was at the 
	junkyard at 76 Totters Lane.  She was the rational person
	in the TARDIS during her role, and she was quicker to
	accept new situations than Ian Chesterton (qv).

	I liked Barbara because of the strength of her character.
	She played the part with vigor, and seemed to be able to keep
	it "on track", not allowing the characterization to alter
	radically from script to script.

	I didn't like her occasional bossiness, and felt that she
	was sometimes a bit heartless.

Ian Chesterton played by William Russell.  (now Russell Enoch)
	First appearance:  Episode 1, An Unearthly Child  23 Nov. 1963
	Last appearance (regular): Episode 6, The Chase   26 June, 1965
		(The Planet of Decision)
	No reprises of the role outside of flashbacks.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		He joined the crew of the TARDIS with Barbara (above).
	His function was to be the muscle of the crew, with a bit
	of scientific knowledge.  The Doctor would correct his
	misconceptions, which was the most common vehicle of 
	explanation during his role.

	Ian was interesting, because again he had a firmer, well
	rounded character, but he was severely limited by his role
	as the fighter of the group.

Susan (Foreman?) played by Carole Ann Ford.
	First appearance:  Episode 1, An Unearthly Child  23 Nov. 1963
	Last appearance (regular): Episode 6, The Dalek Invasion of
		Earth (Flashpoint)			  26 Dec. 1964
	Reprised in The Five Doctors, 25 Nov. 1983
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		May have been the Doctor's granddaughter, she was
	resident in the TARDIS with the Doctor at the start of the
	series in 1963.  She was a student at the Coal Hill School
	who's unusual behavior piqued the interest of the two teachers
	and led them to 76 Totters Lane.  She left in a very touching
	scene, from which the quote at the start of The Five Doctors
	was found.  (Someday, I will come back...)

	Susan gets a low rating because of her role as the first
	"screaming ninny."  In my opinion, she had very little
	positive side to her character, as her apparent intelligence
	was lost by the time The Tribe of Gum was shown.

Vicki played by Maureen O'Brien.
	First appearance:  Episode 1, The Rescue            2 Jan. 1965
	Last appearance:  Episode 4, The Myth Makers        6 Nov. 1965
		(Horse of Destruction)
	No reprises of the role outside of flashbacks.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.
		
		Vicki was the second screaming ninny, replacing the
	first.  She was even less endearing than Susan, in fact, it
	is hard to remember her doing much of anything.

	She joined the crew of the TARDIS after she was the last
	survivor of a crashed space ship.  She left to marry Troilus.

Steven Taylor played by Peter Purves.
	First appearance:  Episode 6, The Chase		    26 Jun. 1965
		(The Planet of Decision)
	Last appearance:  Episode 4, The Savages	    18 Jun. 1966
	No reprises of the role outside of flashbacks.
	Appeared as Morton Dill, Episode 2 of The Chase, 29 May, 1965
		(The Death of Time)

		Steven Taylor was the muscle replacement for Ian
	when he left.  Steven was captured by the Mechanoids and
	held captive on their planet, when he escaped with the Doctor,
	Ian, Barbara, and Vicki, he joined the crew and Ian and
	Barbara left.  He left to become the leader of the Savages
	and Elders.

	Steven was not as deep a character as Ian, he seemed to me to
	be the typical thick headed jock type.  He did carry a teddy
	bear when he joined the crew and talked to it.

Katarina played by Adrienne Hill.
	First appearance:  Episode 4, The Myth Makers	    6 Nov. 1965
		(Horse of Destruction)
	Last appearance:  Episode 3, The Dalek Masterplan   27 Nov. 1965
		(Devil's Planet)
	No reprises of the role, no flashbacks.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Katarina joined the crew of the TARDIS while fleeing
	from the destruction of Troy.  She had been one of Cassandra's
	serving girls.  She sacrificed herself to save the Doctor; when
	a convict was threatening to kill everyone on a ship, she 
	opened the airlock door out into space.

	Although quite shallow (and she hardly had any time for
	character development!), she was an amusing character, in
	that she worshipped the Doctor-- literally!

	There are questions on whether or not she should be a companion
	based on being in the TARDIS for only four episodes.

Sara Kingdom played by Jean Marsh.
	First appearance:  Episode 4, The Dalek Masterplan  4 Dec. 1965
		(The Traitors)
	Last appearance:  Episode 12, The Dalek Masterplan  29 Jan. 1966
		(Destruction of Time)
	No reprises of the role apart from flashbacks.
	Appeared in The Crusades as Joanna, sister to King Richard,
		27 Mar. - 17 Apr. 1965.
	Appeared in Battlefield as Morgana, 6-27 Sept 1989

		Sara Kingdom was assigned by Mavic Chen the task of
	killing the Doctor.  She kills her brother, Bret Vyon (played
	by Nicholas Courtney qv.), and only then realises that The
	Doctor is on the side of good and Mavic Chen has betrayed
	Earth to the Daleks.  She is killed by the Time Destructor in
	the death of Kembel.

	Sara was a security guard who was useful in fighting the
	Daleks.  Her character seemed to me to be a bit stereo-
	typical and a bit too cardboard.

Dodo Chaplet played by Jackie Lane.
	First appearance:  Episode 4, The Massacre	    26 Feb. 1966
		(Bell of Doom)
	Last appearance:  Episode 2, The War Machines	    2 July, 1966
	No reprises of the role apart from flashbacks.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Dodo joined the crew of the TARDIS when she wandered
	into the ship thinking it an actual police call box.  Her
	entry was scripted into the last epsiode of the Myth Makers by 
	Donald Tosh.  She left to stay in London.  She was the first
	companion who didn't do a Dalek story.

	Dodo had the worst entrance; it had little to do with the story,
	the worst exit (she just disappeared and wasn't seen again),
	was in the worst story (The Gunfighters).  She just didn't
	seem to build the attachment to the show that others did.

Polly played by Anneke Wills.
	First appearance:  Episode 1, The War Machines	    25 June 1966
	Last appearance:  Episode 6, The Faceless Ones	    13 May, 1967
	No reprises of the part apart from flashbacks.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Polly joined with the Doctor with Ben after the fight
	in London with the War Machines.  They were the first contemp-
	orary companions since Ian and Barbara.  They left to stay in
	London after the fight with the Faceless Ones.  They were also
	the first companions to witness a regeneration, from William
	Hartnell to Patrick Troughton.

	Polly, ever since I first saw her in The Tenth Planet, is one
	of my favorites.  She has beautiful eyes, and a good bit of
	spunk.  She, Ben, and Pat Troughton's Doctor got along
	famously.

Ben Jackson played by Michael Craze.
	First appearance:  Episode 1, The War Machines	    25 June 1966
	Last appearance:  Episode 6, The Faceless Ones	    13 May, 1967
	No reprises of the part apart from flashbacks.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Ben joined the Doctor with Polly and left with Polly,
	the two were nearly inseparable.  They did not know each other
	before Doctor Who; Polly met Ben at a night club where Able
	Seaman Ben Jackson was moping over his drink.  Polly was
	finally able to cheer him up, and they set out on their 
	adventure with The War Machines.  Also witnessed William 
	Hartnell's regeneration to Patrick Troughton.

	Ben was another muscle companion, and being a seaman he
	certainly ably filled that role.  His witty reparte with
	the Doctor and Polly (whom he referred to as "Duchess") was
	quite amusing and added a nice touch of humor to the show.

Jamie McCrimmon played by Fraser Hines.
	Also played by Hamish Wilson, Episode 2 The Mind Robber,
		21 Sept. 1968.
	First appearance:  Episode 1, The Highlanders	    8 Oct. 1966
	Last appearance:  Episode 10, The War Games	    21 June 1969
	Reprised the role in The Five Doctors, 25 Nov. 1983
	Reprised the role in The Two Doctors, 16 Feb-2 Mar, 1985
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Jamie joined the TARDIS shortly after he led the Doctor,
	Ben and Polly back to the TARDIS on Culloden Moor.  He left
	the crew when sent back to Scotland by the Time Lords after
	the Doctor's trial in The War Games.  Jamie's status on the
	TARDIS was contingent on him teaching the Doctor how to play
	the bagpipes.

	Jamie was a muscle companion, but one who provided a good bit
	of comic relief.  He worked very well with Patrick Troughton,
	and together they make my favorite Doctor/companion team.
	He has a lot of naivete, being a Scotsman from the 18th
	century.  He was dumb, even for them.  Often, the Doctor
	would try to explain something, only to become comically
	frustrated at the attempt.

	Jamie was one of the most loyal companions, he'd follow
	the Doctor anywhere.  He has also been able to continue to
	play the part well when he reprised the part in The Two 
	Doctors.

Victoria Waterfield played by Deborah Watling.
	First appearance:  Episode 4, The Evil of the Daleks 10 Jun 1967
	Last appearance:  Episode 1, The Wheel in Space      27 Apr 1968
	No reprises of the part apart from flashbacks.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Victoria joined the crew after she and her father were
	used by the Daleks to attempt to find the human factor.  Her
	father was killed on Skaro, and she was taken there.  When the
	Dalek Civil War broke out, she escaped with the Doctor in
	the TARDIS.  She left to stay with a family in Aberdeen after
	the oil rigs there were attacked by seaweed.

	Victoria is my favorite female companion.  She displayed a
	complete naivete about most matters, as she was brought up
	as the prim and proper Victorian woman.  She got on beautifully
	with Jamie, and as a team they were my favorite.

	I will admit some glandular prejudice, as I find Deborah Watling
	quite attractive.

	I will also admit some story based prejudice; Victoria, and
	Jamie were the companions during Innes Lloyd's "monster
	season", which saw the Yeti and the Ice Warriors make their
	Doctor Who debuts.  This season was also the first to feature
	Nicholas Courtney as Lt. Col. Lethbridge-Stewart.

	The biggest knock against Victoria is that she was a screamer;
	that is true, but she became the best at the type.

Alastair Gordon Lethbridge-Stewart (Lt. Col, then Brig.) played
	by Nicholas Courtney.
	First appearance:  Episode 2, The Web of Fear	    10 Feb. 1968
	Last appearance:  Episode 4, Terror of the Zygons   20 Sept 1975
	Irregular as a regular, he appeared as part of UNIT for
		Patrick Troughton, Jon Pertwee, and Tom Baker.
	Reprised the part in Mawdryn Undead, 2-11 Feb, 1983
	Reprised the part in The Five Doctors, 25 Nov. 1983
	Reprised the part in Battlefield, 6-27 Sept 1989
	Also played Bret Vyon in The Dalek Masterplan, Episodes 1-4,
		13 Nov-5 Dec. 1965

		The Brigadier was never really a travelling companion
	of the Doctor's, in fact his first journey using the TARDIS
	took place during Mawdryn Undead.  He was assigned to help
	fight the Yeti in the London underground, and for his effort
	was promoted to Brigadier and assigned command of UNIT, the
	United Nations Intelligence Taskforce.  His appearances
	were primarily Earth based, although from Earth he did get
	to fight most menaces, including Daleks, Cybermen, and Yeti.
	He witnessed Jon Pertwee's regeneration into Tom Baker.

	UNIT was a very big part of Jon Pertwee's legacy as the Doctor.
	While he was exiled to Earth, it gave him a base to work
	out of, replacing the TARDIS.  He was quite enjoyable in the
	role of the military man, but that was wearing thin by Tom
	Baker's era.  His appearances since he retired have only been
	so-so.

Zoe Herriot played by Wendy Padbury.
	First appearance:  Episode 1, The Wheel in Space    27 Apr. 1968
	Last appearance:  Episode 10, The War Games	    21 June 1969
	Reprised the part in The Five Doctors, 25 Nov. 1983.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Zoe is the only companion whom I did not see/hear/or
	read about joining the TARDIS.  She departed with her memory
	wiped at the end of The War Games, returning to the wheel in
	space as a result of the Doctor's trial.  She is only the 
	second companion not to fight the Daleks, although she witnessed
	the Evil of the Daleks in Doctor Who's first repeat.

	Zoe was a twenty-first century computer scientist, which must
	strike close to home for many of us on the net.  She displayed
	a lot of intelligence and a phenomenal memory.  She did end
	up a screamer, though.  Her intelligence and memory was used
	on several occasions to the benefit of the crew.

	With Jamie, she is on all of the Patrick Troughton stories
	currently released by Lionheart.

Benton (Lance Corporal to Warrant Officer) played by John Levene.
		Also played by an unnamed child in The Time Monster,
		29 May-24 June, 1972.
	First appearance:  Episode 2, The Invasion	    9 Nov. 1968
	Last appearance:  Episode 4, The Android Invasion   13 Dec. 1975
	Irregular as a regular, he appeared as part of UNIT for
		Patrick Troughton, Jon Pertwee, and Tom Baker.
	No reprises of the part apart from flashbacks.
	Has played the roles of several monsters in the show, notably
		Yeti and Cybermen.

		Benton was a member of UNIT, from when it fought 
	against the Cyberman invasion to when they defeated the
	Kraals.  He traveled in the TARDIS once, The Three Doctors.
	He was also a "love interest" for Jo Grant.

	Benton started as Lance Corporal, was promoted to Sergeant
	for Spearhead from Space, Regimental Sergeant Major for
	Robot, and a mention of a promotion to Warrant Officer 
	was made in Mawdryn Undead.

	Benton was fun in many stories, although rather limited
	character.  It would be fun to see a "Companions" book
	about him!

Liz Shaw played by Caroline John.
	First appearance:  Episode 1, Spearhead from Space   3 Jan. 1970
	Last appearance:  Episode 7, Inferno		    20 June 1970
	Reprised the part in The Five Doctors, 25 Nov. 1983.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Liz Shaw was the first and only companion never to
	have traveled in the TARDIS.  She was UNIT's scientific
	advisor when the Doctor was found after regenerating.  She
	left UNIT to continue her academic career.

	Liz Shaw was a genius, often a match for the Doctor in
	intelligence.  This didn't leave much room for banter
	between the two.

	Liz also suffered through having some long stories and 
	never having her character fully developed.

Jo Grant played by Katy Manning.
	First appearance:  Episode 1, Terror of the Autons  2 Jan. 1971
	Last appearance:  Episode 6, The Green Death	    23 June 1973
	Reprised the part (voice only) episode 1 of The Planet of
		the Spiders, 4 May, 1974.
	No other parts in Doctor Who.

		Jo Grant was the niece of a UN bigwig who had her
	assigned to UNIT, and the Brigadier asked her to be the Doctor's
	assistant.  She left to get married and go down the Amazon.

	Jo was a likable dingbat.  She played the role like she is,
	a bit blind, but quite lovable.  Both Captain Yates and
	Sergeant Benton were very fond of her, as was I.

	Jo's biggest problem was her stupidity.  It got in the way of
	the Doctor and her own character growth.

Michael Yates played by Richard Franklin.
	First appearance:  Episode 1, Terror of the Autons  2 Jan. 1971
	Last appearance:  Episode 6, Invasion of the Dinosaurs
							    16 Feb. 1974
	Reprised the part in The Planet of the Spiders, 4 May-8 June,
		1974.
	Reprised the part in The Five Doctors, 25 Nov. 1983
	No other roles in Doctor Who.

		Captain Yates was assigned to UNIT to be the Brigadier's
	right hand man.  He left after he betrayed UNIT in Invasion
	of the Dinosaurs. 

	Yates was introduced to the show to be a love interest for
	Jo Grant.  He was a bit of a stickler for military regulations,
	and did use them to his advantage to cut out Sgt. Benton.

	Although well played, he was a stiff military character, and
	probably the least sympathetic of the regular UNIT crew.

Sarah Jane Smith played by Elisabeth Sladen.
	First appearance:  Episode 1, The Time Warrior	    15 Dec. 1973
	Last appearance:  Episode 4, The Hand of Fear	    23 Oct. 1976
	Reprised the part in The Five Doctors, 25 Nov. 1983.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Sarah Jane stowed away on board the TARDIS after
	sneaking in to a scientific establishment in the pursuit of
	a magazine story.  She was deserted by the Doctor somewhere
	that probably wasn't South Croydon when he was summoned back
	to Gallifrey.  She saw Jon Pertwee's Doctor regenerate into
	Tom Baker.

	Sarah Jane was fun to watch... most of the time.  She was 
	supposedly a feminist, but this often fell by the wayside.
	Her character was one of the more inconsistent, probably
	due to her longevity and how many writers pay little
	attention to the companion.

	Her best shows were those with Harry Sullivan, whose witty
	reparte with her was often quite funny.

Harry Sullivan played by Ian Marter.
	First appearance:  Episode 1, Robot		    28 Dec. 1974
	Last appearance:  Episode 4, Terror of the Zygons   20 Sept.1975
	Reprised the part in The Android Invasion, 22 Nov-13 Dec. 1975
	Appeared as Andrews in Carnival of Monsters, 27 Jan-17 Feb, 1973
	Ian Marter has written several novels for Target.
	Ian Marter died from complications of diabetes in 1986.

		Harry Sullivan was tricked into the TARDIS by the
	newly regenerated Doctor and left at his first opportunity.
	During his travels, he did meet up with Daleks, Cybermen, and
	Sontarans!  He was UNIT's medical officer, and was the only
	UNIT officer to seriously travel in the TARDIS.

	Harry was a lot of fun; he was a bit thick, and very much a
	male chauvinist pig.  The dialogue between Harry and the Old
	Thing (Sarah Jane Smith) was some of the best in the Tom
	Baker era, and probably the best that didn't involve Tom.

Leela played by Louise Jameson.
	First appearance:  Episode 1, The Face of Evil	    1 Jan. 1977
	Last appearance:  Episode 6, The Invasion of Time   11 Mar. 1978
	No reprises of the role outside of flashbacks.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Leela joined the crew of the TARDIS by sneaking in
	and causing the TARDIS to take off.   She left to remain on
	Gallifrey with her new husband, Andred.

	Leela was the brown eyed savage, who often offered to cut the
	hearts out of the Doctor's enemies.  She was quite fearless
	and very good with the knife.  She was intelligent, but not very
	well educated, so the Doctor frequently had to explain to
	Leela his explanations.

	Being a savage woman was a rather limiting role, there is not
	much opportunity for character development.  Louise left the
	part at the right time, before it became too hackneyed.

K-9 played by John Leeson.
		Also played by David Brierley, 17th season.
	First appearance:  Episode 2, The Invisible Enemy    8 Oct. 1977
	Last appearance:  Episode 4, Warrior's Gate	    24 Jan. 1981
	Reprised the part in The Five Doctors, 25 Nov. 1983.
	Also appeared as Dugeen in The Power of Kroll, 23 Dec. 1978-
		13 Jan. 1979.
	Also was a Dalek voice in Remembrance of the Daleks, 5-26 Oct. 1988.

		K-9 joined the TARDIS when his original owner, Professor
	Marius, was unable to bring him back to Earth due to luggage
	limits.  K-9 Mk I stayed with Leela on Gallifrey, the Doctor
	produced a K-9 Mk II, which remained in E-Space with Romana.
	K-9 Mk III was a gift from the Doctor to Sarah Jane Smith.

	K-9 was a robotic dog which functioned as a mobile computer/
	defense system.  Originally a cute idea, the decision to
	bring out a Mk II when Leela left was the start of the mutt's
	downfall.

	A robotic companion is a rather dead end street; there can be
	little character development, and as it was, K-9 was used
	as a plot device to free Romana and the Doctor from ridiculous
	situations with relative ease; K-9 became too much of a crutch
	and as a result became a negative influence on the show.

Romanadvoratrelundar (I) played by Mary Tamm.
	First appearance: Episode 1, The Ribos Operation   2 Sept. 1978
	Last appearance: Episode 6, The Armageddon Factor  24 Feb. 1979
	No reprises of the part apart from flashbacks.
	Also appeared as Princess Strella, The Androids of Tara
		25 Nov-16 Dec. 1978.

		Romana joined the TARDIS at the behest of the White
	Guardian, masquerading as the President of the High Council
	on Gallifrey.  She regenerated into Romana II (qv).  She
	stayed through the Key to Time season, and was on occasions
	a good foil for Tom Baker's Doctor's arrogance.

	Her failing was that she was too smart, and not light 
	enough.  Her serious "I am better than you" attitude was
	often a drag on the show.

Romana (II) played by Lalla Ward.
	First appearance: Episode 1, Destiny of the Daleks  1 Sept. 1979
	Last appearance: Episode 4, Warrior's Gate	    24 Jan. 1981
	Clips from Shada (an incomplete story) used in 
		The Five Doctors, 25 Nov. 1983.
	Also appeared as Princess Astra, The Armageddon Factor,
		20 Jan-24 Feb. 1979.

		Romana II was the regenerated form of Romana I.  She
	left the TARDIS with K-9 Mk II to assist the Tharils in 
	E-Space.  Her character had much of the first Romana's
	intelligence, but was a lot more humorous.

	Her failing was that she was too intelligent; with K-9, Romana,
	and the sonic screwdriver, the Doctor was never in serious
	danger, so plots were weakened by this lack of threat.

	Lalla Ward and Tom Baker were married, and are now divorced.

Adric played by Matther Waterhouse.
	First appearance: Episode 1, Full Circle	    25 Oct. 1980
	Last appearance: Episode 4, Earthshock		    16 Mar. 1982
	Reprised the part in Timeflight, 23 Mar, 1982
	Reprised the part for The Doctor's regenration, The Caves of
		Androzani, 16 Mar. 1984.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Adric stowed away aboard the TARDIS in Full Circle
	to join the crew, and was spread all over Earth as a layer
	of fertilizer as his departure.  He did witness Tom Baker's
	regeneration into Peter Davison.

	Adric had no redeeming qualities.  He betrayed the Doctor too
	often, argued too much, and made too many ultimatums.  He
	was no fun to watch, and a detriment to the crew.

Nyssa played by Sarah Sutton.
	First appearance: Episode 1, The Keeper of Traken   31 Jan. 1981
	Last appearance: Episode 4, Terminus		    23 Feb. 1983
	Reprised the part in regeneration scene, The Caves of Androzani,
		16 Mar. 1984.
	Appeared as Ann Talbot in Black Orchid, 1-2 March, 1982.

		Nyssa joined the TARDIS at Logopolis after her home 
	planet of Traken was destroyed by The Master.  (The Master
	also inhabits her father's body.)  She left to help the victims
	of Lazza's disease at the Terminus Hospital, at the origin
	of the universe.  She witnessed the regeneration of Tom Baker
	into Peter Davison.

	Nyssa was a smart, though naive character who suffered from
	great inconsistency.  She was supposed to be a biologist,
	but ranged as far afield as a mystic.

	She had some potential, it's a shame it was wasted.

Tegan Jovanka played by Janet Fielding.
	First appearance: Episode 1, Logopolis		    28 Feb. 1981
	Last appearance: Episode 2, Resurrection of the Daleks 
							    15 Feb. 1984
	Reprised the part in regeneration scene, The Caves of Androzani
		16 Mar. 1984.
	Also appeared as Kamelion, The King's Demons, 16 Mar. 1983.

		Tegan stumbled into the TARDIS looking for help with
	her car.  She left, when she was tired of all the killing
	of the Daleks. She witnessed the regeneration of Tom Baker
	into Peter Davison.

	Tegan was a strong character, but much to argumentative.  Her
	first year was spent demanding a return to Heathrow Airport,
	when she was finally returned, she discovered that she'd
	been given the sack and she rejoined the crew in Amsterdam.

	She was the first Australian companion.  Her bossiness made
	her seem inappropriate for a companion.

Turlough played by Mark Strickson.
	First appearance: Episode 1, Mawdryn Undead	    1 Feb. 1983
	Last appearance: Episode 4, Planet of Fire	    2 Mar. 1984
	Reprised the part in regeneration scene, The Caves of Androzani
		16 Mar. 1984.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Turlough joined the TARDIS at the behest of the Black
	Guardian with the task of killing the Doctor.  Over three
	stories, he grew to enjoy and respect the Doctor and was 
	unable to kill him.  He left to return to his home planet,
	Trion.

	Turlough did the most character development of any companion
	in recent years, he had to.  His cowardice and deviousness
	made a change from recent companions.

Kamelion played by Gerald Flood.
		Also played by:  Janet Fielding, Peter Davison, Anthony
		Ainley, and Dallas Adams.)
	First appearance: Episode 1, The King's Demons	    15 Mar. 1983
	Last appearance: Episode 4, Planet of Fire	    2 Mar. 1984
	Reprised the part in regeneration scene, The Caves of Androzani
		16 Mar. 1984.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Kamelion was pulled into the TARDIS to escape the
	influence of the Master, and was killed at his own request
	by the Doctor.

	Robotic companions do not work too well.

Perpugilliam Brown played by Nicola Bryant.
	First appearance: Episode 1, Planet of Fire	    22 Feb. 1984
	Last appearance: Episode 8, Trial of a Time Lord    25 Oct. 1986
	No reprises of the part, a flashback in Episode 14,
		Trial of a Time Lord, 6 Dec. 1986.
	Appeared as Kiv, episode 8, The Trial of a Time Lord,
		25 Oct. 1986.

		Peri joined the crew of the TARDIS as something to do
	and she left by marrying King Yrcanos.  (An alternative is
	that she was killed by King Yrcanos after being made a body
	for Sil's brain.)  She witnessed the regeneration from
	Peter Davison to Colin Baker.

	She was a screamer, she was dense, and she argued too much.
	Her only assets were greatly offset by a need for good
	direction and some more evident respect for the Doctor.

Melanie Bush played by Bonnie Langford.
	First appearance: Episode 9, The Trial of a Time Lord 1 Nov. 1986
	Last appearance: Episode 3, Dragonfire		      7 Dec. 1987
	No reprises of the role outside of flashbacks.
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		There is no good way to explain how Melanie joined
	the TARDIS.  She appeared out of the future for the Trial
	of the Doctor, and left with him as his companion.  She
	left the Doctor to join Sabalom Glitz as part of the
	crew of the Nosferatu II when he took over Iceworld.

	Mel was the archetypical screamer, once screaming 14 times 
	in a single story.  Although allegdly a computer programmer,
	she never illustrated this ability, and her allegedly good
	memory was hardly ever utilized, either.

	Her character was probably severely hurt by the writing of
	Pip and Jane Baker, who scripted 9 of her first 10 episodes,
	almost half of her term in the role.

Ace (Dorothy) played by Sophie Aldred.
	First appearance: Episode 1, Dragonfire		     24 Nov. 1987
	Last appearance: Episode 3, Survival                  6 Dec. 1989
	No other appearances in Doctor Who.

		Ace joined the crew when she had no where else to go.
	Whisked off Earth in an ion storm, Ace hails from Perivale,
	a part of London.  She was found on Iceworld, working as a
	waitress in an ice cream bar.

	Ace is a good companion.  She has her own personality which
	blends very well with Sylvester McCoy's Doctor.  Her trade-
	mark is her use of the explosive Nitro-9, a varient of
	nitroglycerin, which she makes herself and uses old cans
	of deodorant as her delivery system.
-- 
James C. Armstrong, Jr		att!attdso!terminus!nyssa
