 




 ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹
 ›±20 Mar 90±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±_ROR_-_ALUCARD_±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±›?  ﬁ∞
 ›                                                                     › A ﬁ∞
 ›              SHROOM07.DOC - To Make A                               ›  ?ﬁ∞
 ›                                                                 A   ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ∞
 ›                A Trip To The Land Of Else part 7              Tfile     ﬁ∞
 ›                                                            Distribution ﬁ∞
 ‹‹‹‹‹     Green Moonckaes With Dr. Seuss                       Centere    ﬁ∞
 ›?  ﬁ            By: Doctor Murdock                            - RoR -    ﬁ∞
 › A ﬁ_____________________________________________________________________ﬁ∞
 ›  ?ﬁ Shawn-Da-Lay Boy Productions, Inc.˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙ﬁ∞
 ›‹‹‹ﬁ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬁ∞
   ∞∞∞The Pirates' Hollow - 415/236/2371∞∞The Electric Pub - 415/236/4380∞∞∞∞
   ∞Primary Drop Sites∞∞∞∞∞∞Rat Head - 415/524/3649∞∞∞∞∞Primary Drop Sites∞∞∞


SHROOM07.DOC  -  A Trip To The Land Of Else part 7 -

                   Green Mooncakes With Dr. Seuss




Another day has come.....it's such a happy, happy, happy, happy love.  Another
day has come.  Another wave of sadness, another touch of madness.  Another
wave has come.  A lot of words of comfort but there just words not answers.
Don't wanna be alone....oh no.  Another day another laugh, another light
another star, and through it all, I'm loving you.  Loving, loving, loving you.
Another town another face, another wine another taste, and through it all I'm
loving you.  It's seems my life I'm spending, in all these woes unending.
Another day has gone.  I guess there's still tomorrow, to kill these seeds of
sorrow.  And then the war is won.  Another day another war, another light
another star.  And through it all, I'm loving you, I'm loving you, loving you.
Ohhh...I sure do.  Another town another face, another wine, another taste, and
through it all I'm loving you, I'm loving you, I'm missing you.  Oh, I sure
do. But I'll be back.
                     .
                      .
                       .
                        back with you.



Climb up and take a riiiiiiide.  A ride on the train of What Else!  HA HA HAR!


  A man approaches you wielding his weapon!  He looks you over....he checks
  your Stats!


Race: Human
Hit Points: 89
Strength: 16
Dexterity: 15
Intelligence: 16
Wisdom: 18


The man gives a snarling grunt and walks off about his way....



     Dontcha hate when you get the KILLER MUNCHIES?!  Man...I hate that.


Crawl into the house on a bright, sunny, Saturday.....stoned all day and it's
sloooooowly wearing off.  Walk into the kitchen, nod your head to all of the
people in Reality and try to be as less conspicuous as possible.  Walk into
the darker hallway and feel the buzzing from switching back into orbit as you
exit the kitchen.  Up the stairs.  Into your room.  Close the door. Sit in the
chair and stare at the bright red color patterns coming from the clock radio.
Feel the texture of the yellow desk.  The deep brown glassy look of the
dresser.  Go into the closet and stare into the light bulb while it's on.
Slowly slip out under the door and drip slide down the stairs like a
waterfall.  Out the front door, onto the driveway, in the street, and down the
sewer..  Safe, away from any trouble.  Through the sewer out into the fields
where the sun shines the brightest.  This is the Safety Zone.  You're all
alone in your very own little world....shifting and shaping.  Frying away, and
away into vast new lands of wonder and memories.  Down, down you go.  Far far
away. Thinking about how reality and all of it's wonders (some good, some bad)
 will be here for you in about 4 hours.  And you find yourself asking
yourself...................





                               why?




I wonder what Trisha is doing these days.........


But even after you've come down you know'll you'll be back.  There are many
tickets to:


              THE LAND OF ELSE!!

<DUN DDDUUUUUUUUUUHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!>


The Brain is a Wonderful thing.  Don't waste it by yielding your boundaries of
data input.  Have you intoxicated your brain today?  After all...that is where
all of the fun and interesting things in life come from.  For...without the
Brain....we would be nothing.  It's a lumpy greyish form.  And right now it's
floating around in a gallon of acid.  Magical Acid.  No pain.  Magic Acid,
dude.


She don't lie, She don't lie, She don't liiiiiiieeeeeee....Cocaine.....


crosstops and lsd, and methedrine freakout
take some more acid and let your brains leakout
speed ball and eightball, bounce upside down
microdots are purple, you shoot sugar brown
when your this high and you can do no more
sit back, shift out, and tally your score
high in the sky, in the deep blue void
coming down fast, you been struck by a noid
Alice fly by, even faster than you
you wave hello and she wave back too
sweat rolls down your face so slow
your mind freaks out and starts to glow
staring at the wall, full speed ahead
flying and trying not to drop like lead
watching birds fly and alligators grin
quaff another potion and start to spin
people knocking on your door, wheres cremator
tell 'em to come back lator
farther and further away you go
where you'll stop, nobody can know
when in doubt and decisions are hard
just say the words, RoR - Alucard



   Have you ever had a Green Moon Cake??

How bout twinkies and coke?

And while we're on the subject, have you ever noticed how Dolly Madison junk
food looks more mysterious than your regular junk food?  Well, next time your
eating or turned into a Zinger...you just give it some thought.  And why did
they end the stories of the zinger snatcher?  I liked him.  And why is it that
nobody can remember dr. shrinker but me?  Do YOU remember Dr. Shrinker?  The
guy who chased around 5 shrunked people early on saturday mornings.  Everbody
remembers speed racer.  What about Cherry Poptart?  Most definitely!  Or what
about Johnny Blaze aka the Ghost Rider!  Or Alien World or twisted tales.  Or
the sleestacks.  or dr. who.  Those pyramids on land of the lost always
trapped my attention.  Now there is a good story.  Amusing as a kid and then
mind boggeling as an older person.  Just think if there is a place like that
in the middle of the earth.  And what powers those pyramids hold.  Just throw
a few emeralds and jems around and who knows what might pop up!  Heaven or
Hell.  Just put a sign reading Out To Lunch on the outside of the pyramid and
start playing chinese marbles ontop of the glowing pedestal.  maybe drop some
acid first.  then whatever happens is amplified...for a better trip....so to
speak.  I was on mushrooms during a large earthquake, and it was most highly
amplified.  junkfood junkie is a cool song.  relative.  and I bet when we die
we'll find out the big secret behind mirrors.  theres gotta be something magic
about mirrors.....and also....there's no magic in this rock!

Led Zeppelin must have made a deal with the devil because they have made some
serious jams.  hey, I think I'm coming down a tad.  Well, we'll fix that right
up.....off to the mighty Green Glacier!

- OUT TO LUNCH -


     Santa Claus is coming to town
     His sleigh packed with new drugs and old wine
     He'll want some little girls to sit on his lap
     Watch Santa fondle their rosy cheeks that shine

     Santa can get you those disposable syringes
     Shoot up some coke and loosen some hinges
     Santa doesn't ask for your age or ID
     Burn up some coke and run him an IV

     Do crystal meth till late afternoon
     Nothin can beat that Psilocybin Mushroom
     Being up for 3 days really sucks alot
     Smoke all that speed, smoke all that pot

     Snort those long white crystal lines
     Main line that smack several times
     Can't come down, gotta stay up high
     More of my favorite drugs to help me fly

     Fly through the sky on your magic shroom
     Do some crank and really zoom!
     The next line won't rhyme because your too fucked up
     See?  I told you.






  Walking through the halls of school stoned and not a care in the world.
Hallways crowded and everybody rushing.  Your just walking calmly right down
the middle, higher than a kite.  Bright sunny day, in school, wired on crank.
Knowing that at any moment you can simply <Shift Out> of reality and leave all
your trouble far below.............


laurie, your a bitch, a whore and a tramp
i'd rape you but since theres jail, I can't
oh laughing gas, how I love you
nothing like breathin that NO2


Which reminds me, being stoned in a planetarium is *RAD*!!

Being on mushrooms anywhere is *RAD*! .  Well...not anywhere.  Maybe right
there. Or here..  Maybe then, or now. Or always.  ETERNAL TRIP!  Ouch.  There
are hallucinagens in Nethack for a reason you know....And it's rumored that if
you leave the dungeon while on a hallucinagen then you go to heaven.......

..or is that jail?


Magic is a four letter word.  But which word is the magic is the question.
Could it be Hell?  Or what about about drug?  Or what about word?  OR what
about what?  Or what about alice?  or what about about?  Or what about magic
or lewis or carol or land or else or acid, coke, time, four, life, why?, oh,
shit, i'm, loosing, it.......

Or Dr. Seuss.....now theres another weird one.  Whereever this cat in a hat
lives, THATS WHERE I WANNA BE!  I mean, get a good look at all of the neat
things you can do.  Green Eggs?  HA, a kick in the pants!  And people!  The
Grinch would be the first person I'd want to meet.  And machines, heck, you
could get a machine to make or do anything in a Dr. Seuss book..


Here eat some of this magic mushroom...

I do not WANT any magic mushrooms!

Magic Mushroom? Magic Mushroom?
Mushroom did you say?
How about in a box?
How about in a box with a fox?
How about on a hill?
How about with a pill?

How about with a fox in a box on a hill with a big aqua coloured pill called
"RoR - Alucard"?

But, Sam-I-Am!  I do not LIKE Magic Mushrooms!
I do not like them, I say!
Please Sam-I-Am, please go away...

Go away?  Away to where?
With Magic Mushrooms you can go here or there
You can go just about ANYWHERE!

So here, take some Magic Mushroom and disappear!
Take them in a box with some rocks
In a boat with a goat..
In a tree with a flee..
On your head almost
 

Go away?  Away to where?
With Magic Mushrooms you can go here or there
You can go just about ANYWHERE!

So here, take some Magic Mushroom and disappear!
Take them in a box with some rocks
In a boat with a goat..
In a tree with a flee..
On your head almost
