 





 ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹
 ›±26 Nov 86±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±_ROR_-_ALUCARD_±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±›   ﬁ∞
 ›                                                                     › A ﬁ∞
 ›                      The Story Board                                ›   ﬁ∞
 ›                           from                                  A   ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ∞
 ›                       THE LEFT WALL                           Tfile     ﬁ∞
 ›                                                            Distribution ﬁ∞
 ‹‹‹‹‹    Authors:  Shandor, Pressbutton!, and others           Centere    ﬁ∞
 ›   ﬁ              listed at end of file.                      - RoR -    ﬁ∞
 › A ﬁ_____________________________________________________________________ﬁ∞
 ›   ﬁ Shawn-Da-Lay Boy Productions, Inc.˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙ﬁ∞
 ›‹‹‹ﬁ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬁ∞
   ∞∞∞The∞Pirates'∞Hollow∞-∞415/236/2371∞∞The∞Electric∞Pub∞-∞415/236/4380∞∞∞∞





Recovered from the Village.  In memory of The Left Wall.....


This file is a compilation of The Left Wall's story board from 9/11/86 to
11/3/86.  For a story board, this one is pretty damned good.





The alley loomed ahead, dark and foreboding.
"Come here Charlie, and you shall have power beyond your wildest dreams,"
babbled the old woman.
"How does she know my name?" Charles wondered, as he tried to get a better
look into the darkness.  Suddenly, he saw the old woman open a small box,
and a bright orange light began to seep out of the cracks.
"What is that?  What do you have in the box?"
"Pain Charlie, pain.....and delight" she cackled
Charles could not help but move closer.  The box was wide open, and he
seemed strangly compelled to insert his hand into the now flickering
light.   A surprisingly cool sensation began to run up his hand, then
his arm, then.........
  "Take it, Charlie, take it," said the old woman, "I'll give you just one
more chance and then I'll find someone who is tired of their drab existance."
  Charlie could resist no longer.  He darted forward and grabbed the box,
peering within.  "B-b-but it's empty," he cried with dismay, and glanced at
the old woman.
  "Reach within, Charlie," said the rapidly dissolving form, "Reach within."
  Charlie just stood, overwhelmed by visions brought by the "box."  He saw
lands of fantasy filled with magic and strange monsters.
  He saw future worlds peopled by many different races of humans and few
aliens.  He saw more... he saw legendary figures passing in front of him...
King Arthur, various pagan gods, superheroes--superman, among others--Flash
Gordon.  Then his hand began to feel less comfortable.
  It began burning.  The scenes he saw changed.  He saw demons and underworld
spirits.  He saw Chaos.  Criminals of all types assailed him but never
touched him.  He could feel some presence yet protecting him, but it was
fading.  At the same time, he felt a growing ability to protect himself.
  "Power beyond my wildest dreams is what she said," Charlie thought.  And
danger.  Was he to join one of these two groups--the two most powerful
leagues in legend?  He felt it growing within him...  the vision faded.  But
he was no longer in the alleyway...
  Charlie stood on a high plateau over-looking an obviously alien landscape.
Below him a vast field of red sand stretched toward the horizon, and
Charlie could find no evidence that another being existed for miles around.
Then a low buzzing began behind him.  It increased in intensity and finally
Charlie was forced to acknowledge its existance.  He spun to face the sound
and saw.....
A giant fly, like something out of a cheap
Japanese monster movie.  Closer and closer it came, radiating an almost
primal evil.
"No no leave me alone," Charlie pleaded, throwing his hands across his
head.  Then he noticed the hand he had placed in the box was glowing that
same pale orange.......
The pale orange aura expanded to encompass his entire hand.  He pointed it up
in the sky towards the disgusting insect.  He focused his thoughts on his
hand and a release of the energy pent up inside of it.  Suddenly, a large ray
which seemed to emanate from his shoulder and run down the length of his hand
appeared and quickly entered the sky, zeroing in on the fly.  He immediately
lost consciousness.
    When he awoke, a burning stench entered his nostrils.  Charlie got up and
surveyed the scene.  The fly's carcass lay not ten feet from him, it head
cleanly cleft in two pieces.  He was stunned.  It must of been that release
of energy from his arm.  He began to dwell on his new found ability.  He must
pass out every time he uses it because of the enormous inner energy needed to
release it from within himself.  He must use it prudently.
    Charlie looked up to identify the origin of the loud voices he was
hearing.  Off on the horizon he could identify a sound not unlike horses
hooves.  He stared off in that direction and could not believe his eyes.
  A seemingly endless line of forms stretched across the sands toward him.
The line moved with unbelievable speed, and soon the plateau was surrounded
with bowing and praying people.
  And what people they were.  No two seemed to be the same.  They were
winged, horned, short, tall, thin, fat, multi-limbed, no-limbed.  In fact,
the only thing that they seemed to have in common was that they were
worshipping their god.  HIM!!
The pain still remained.  He knew he could not use his power without having
to undergo more pain than the human body was meant to endure.  The beings
began to beg, then plead, then DEMAND another show of his powers.  Chanrlie
wasn't sure if he was up to it quite yet.....
   He remebered one item in his pocket that might ease his predicament;
a bic lighter which he quickly produced for all to see. He rotated the
tiny dial and released a one-foot jet of flame that cast an angry orange
glow about his head.
   Hails of applause and cheers rose from the sea of worshippers and
Charlie realised that he possessed a power on an equal level of mysticism.
A power that would last as long as he didn't run out of butane.
Two members of the throng approached Charlie and each took an arm.  He slipped
the lighter back into his pocket.  He could feel his inner strength growing
again.  It seemed to be fueled a bit by tthe power fo the masses and got
stronger as they got closer.  Or was its strength simply growing all the time?
  The two on his arms were shrouded by large brown hoods.  Like the ones the
Grim Reaper wears, Charlie thought.  All their features were hidden, even
their "hands"--they wore mitten-like coverings.  The two men--creatures,
Charlie corrected himself--led him to a doorway he hadn't noticed before.
  It led straight into the rock of a nearby hill.  Come to think of it, the
hill seemed to be new.  Charlie could feel many strong forces working beyond
the obvious--perhaps this is some new world trying to be born, he thought.
Perhaps he was to guide its primary development, as Kronos and Zeus guided
Earth's primary development...  but what had ever happened to Zeus?
  Charlie looked through the door.  He heard a booming bass voice say, "Come
here, Charlie.  We must talk."  Charlie stepped in through the door.
    A thin grey-haired old man held out his hand bidding to repose upon
on a chair especially designed to sit much lower than the old man's ornate
throne. Charlie sat, feeling very helpless and much smaller than he normally
felt, across from the old gentleman.
    " I was very amused by your magic," He said as he nervously stroked the
lenght of his white, silk necktie," You must tell me your secret."
    " All things considered," said Charlie thinking quickly," But how can I
reveal my secrets and still respect my as a magician?"
    The gentleman wrinkled his brow and tugged at the lapels of his neatly
tailored, pin-striped suit. He took a gentle sniff at his at his rose and
crossed his slender legs.
    "I'll give you a chance to reconsider."
     And, Charlie found himself in the middle of a luxurious bedroom.
The bedroom was the largest and most lavishly decorated room that charlie had
ever seen, the bed was round and soft, covered with sheets of satin.  The
light in the room seemed to come from a bowl in the center, which when
inspected by charlie contained glowing rocks.  He knew that he was tired, and
not bothering to undress, he fell into bed.  He was awakened in the morning
by the sould of booming footsteps outside his door....
    Charlie wearily lifted his head to the direction of the sound and the
door. Another booming step could be heard followed by the loud mutterings
of foreign curses by some female voice. " The master told you never to leave
your cart by the door," Charlie heard through the heavy oak door.
    "Probably some fat old cleaning woman coming to toss me out of my bed,"
said Charlie to himself and let his head flop back into the pillow.
    "Wake up young master," the voice said,"I've come to cleans the way
between you and my master."
    Charlie opened his eyes and lifted his head, once again, to better view
this most extraordinary sight; a woman of near twenty stood over him bathing
her delicate hands in scented oil. She was unclothed, however her body was
pigmented after the fashion a tiger; a white breast and abdomen, tawny
coloration on her back, limbs and hair, and black stripes following her very
feminine curves. She rubbed the oil over herself with graceful strokes and
quietly hummed some arcane mantra. As she reached down to undo Charlie's
clothes, he recoiled in embarrassment.
    "Relax," she purred,"My master has given me to you for as long as you
desire."
    "G-given to me?" Charlie said in voice slightly higher than normal,
"G-given to me?"He repeated in a deeper voice. She pressed a gentle fore-
finger to his dry lips and curled up beside him on the bed. She, then,
slid her hands inside of his tunic and pushed it off his shoulder smothering
him with tender kisses and Charlie surrendered.
    Many hours later, Charlie stood beside the bed slipping into some rich
clothing, laid out by one of the many servants, which better suited his new
position.
    THe lady rose and stretched her arms,"Charlie, that was wonderful."
    Charlie's face was overcome by a self-satisfied grin as he turned to
his lover and said," Call me Butanus." and lifted his lady from the bed.
Lightening flashed all around. The thunder shook the room.  Charlie, or
Butanus as he now decided to call himself, was frightened.  But he had an
image to maintain.  So he merely held her as if to comfort her.  He was
therefore shocked when he heard her soothing voice saying "Don't worry, it
will go away, the storm will stop."
Moments later, it did.
Suddenly Charlie realized that he was in the arms of an extremely powerful
woman.
This realization was confirmed as he was thrown strengthfully onto the
conrete rug.  "Concrete rug?" he thought blearily, just before he passed out.
   Butanus shook his head to clear the fuzz that obscured the edges of his
vision and quickly scanned his surroundings.  Things had been better.
    Butanus was suspended over a large steaming pit by a rope tied to his
ankles, his hands tied firmly behind his back.  Occasionally, a rock would
drop from the rough ceiling of the cavern into the pit and dissolve rapidly
with a hiss of steam.  Butanus gave a quick shiver and began swinging
his body in an effort to escape.
    Laughter echoed in the cavern.  "Well, Charlie, you don't really think
that you can escape that way, do you?"
    Butanus turned his head toward the source of the laughter and saw the old
white haired man.  "Anything that might possibly help to free me is worth
trying, you fiend!  And call me BUTANUS!"
    "My, aren't we touchy. Tch, tch.
    "So, Ch... Butanus, how did you like my little present?  Was she ...
enjoyable?"
    A blush raced to Butanus's face and he said sheepishly, "I don't know
what you are talking about."
    "Oh, don't you now," said the old man.  As Butanus watched, the old man's
shape seemed to shimmer, and suddenly Butanus found himself face to face with
his tiger-striped paramour.
"Now, Charlie.  You must learn quickly here.  Nearly nothing is as it seems.
Why, perhaps you are not even suspended in midair.  You never know until you
try... And this is your next lesson."
    She faded into nothingness as Charlie watched.  Damn, if he could only
get his hands free and get down from this damned rope...  Ohh... Charlie felt
a slight headrush as the blood moved towards his brain.  He had to pee.  He
thought he felt something pulling at his hands... something getting warmer
around his wrists.
    He blacked out for a second and then came to, his hands dangling inches
from the muck below.  They were untied!  Or rather, he noticed quickly, the
rope had been burned through.  Both his hands were glowing a dull green now.
He felt his strength returning as the glow faded to a dull orange and then to
flesh tone.
    Another rock dropped from above and hissed into the muck.  He looked up.
The rope was about 500 meters long.  But, he remembered... much is not as it
seems...
    Suddenly, Charles of Butane knew what his problem was and had been.  He
was using the wrong focus.  The power to work miracles was not in his hands
but in his head.  Channeling energy to his hands had left him weak and
vulnerable, while power direct from the brain should be reusable and
limitless.
    As Charlie concentrated, the room faded and then shimmered back into
existance.  He was not hangng from a five hundred foot rope; he was not
even upside-down.
    Charlie found himself seated on an over-stuffed easy chair in a very
contemporary study.  Shelves filled with both hard and soft cover books
filled three walls, on the fourth were a window and a fireplace.  A fire
blazed, showering the prone form on the rug before the fireplace with warmth
and flickering shadows.  Charlie recognized her as his tiger-striped paramour
and rushed foreward to greet her.
    Raising her head and opening her eyelids lazily the cat woman purred,
"Ah, good. I see and sense that you have finally completed the final test.
Now we may begin the quist for which you and I have been chosen.  I know that
you have many questions, but I cannot answer them now, these answers will come
with time."  She rolled to her feet and strode to a shelf which she swung
toward her revealing a hallway behind.  "Hurry, Charlie, there is really very
little time for us to prepare ourselves for this task."
    Charlie started to follow and stopped, "Wait," he said, "allow me one
question.  I must know if all that I saw in my, uh, tests was merely
illusion."
    "Ah, Charlie, if I answered that then you would have very little mystery
left in your life, and we both know that you like a good mystery."
    "But at least your name, I must know," said Charlie firmly.
    "Very well, you may call me Enigma, for I have only the form and substance
of your imagination.  I am quite real, as we both know.  Hurry now for we must
hasten our departure.
    "You will learn more of your powers as you need to.  Don't trouble your
mind with it, you will need the energy you waste soon enough.
    I could hardly make light of her nane when I myself had chosen Butanius.
We set off down a long corridor but it felt as if we were moving through
water.
  As they walked, Charlie felt suddenly overcome with a faint
queasiness--nausea.  He closed his eyes and stumbled slightly. His eyes
opened a moment then slammed shut in horror at what he saw.  The corridor,
once a sumptuously decorated hall, baroque in browns and golds, was stark,
white, lit by flourescent bulbs.  He was flanked on either side by two large
white jacketed men; and the smoking robe he had been wearing was now a
coarse, scratchy material holdng his arms tightly and uncomfortably wrapped
about his torso.
When he opened his eyes again his arms were free and he strolled beside
Enigma who was silent....
    Charlie's brain tingled, and he felt/heard/saw  a message in his head.
"Charlie, you know who this is.  Now, listen carefully, our minds are
constantly in danger.  Those who oppose our cause are powerful and will play
mind games with you and I both.  Ignore this.  Concentrate on what you know
is real, for only in the mind can reality exist."
    "You are right, I do know you for who you are, my love," Charlie thought
at his companion, and she turned and smiled at him briefly.
    At the end of the hall was a massive door with no apparent locks,
handles, or hinges.  Charlie approached the door, and guided by instinct,
touched it lightly at the center.  The door shimmered and then vanished.
With a look of awe, Charlie stared through the empty portal.
    His mouth dropped in amazement.  Inside was a huge counter top that
stretched the length of the room.  Behind it stood a teenager wearing a
stupid cap and an unusually colored uniform.  His face was acne-ridden.  He
put on a fake smile.  "Hello, may I take your order?"  Charlie was about to
choose between the hamburger and the chicken, when Enigma's words harkened
bact to him.  Somebody somewhere was messing with his mind.  He concentrated
and was able to push the illusion out of his mind.  A bolt of energy hit the
floor in front of him, and burned throught the stones.  Charlie realized that
if he treated this as illusion as well, he would soon be indistinguishable
from a charcol briquete after cooking.  He dove to the ground and rolled,
coming to his feet behind a small boulder that afforded him some cover.  He
glanced up and saw four men standing on a ledge.  His eyes quickly scanned
the room for his beautiful companion, but she was nowhere to be found.
    Suddenly, another bolt of pure energy neatly cleaved the boulder in two
to the left of where he was squatting.  He was now in plain view with no
apparent means of escape.
    At that moment Butanus thought, "But, I have power!"  Every muscle in his
face became tense as if his brain would come bursting through his forehead.
He began to tremble, beads of sweat broke out on his brow.
    "Now, show yourself!" His voice roared across every open space and his
enemy appeared. In a neatly tailored pin-striped suit, the old gentleman
appeared in a swirling cloud of cigar smoke.
    "So...not everyone can drag me out in the open like dis." He said in an
accent that was of a New York Jew instead of the familiar Bronx-Italian he
used before. "Now...I tink...I tink I'll drag you around for awhile."
    Charlie stood on an open savannah. The sun was just beginning to rise as
his tiger-striped beauty silently wandered onto the plain. She paid him no
attention, but hissed at a lone tree standing amidst the gently swaying
grasses.  Another graceful beauty leapt from a limb hidden by the foliage.
Like her tigress foe, her body was covered only by the pigmentation of a
great cat...a leopard. She changed into her four-legged counter-part and
charged at Charlie's lover who also assumed her beastial form.
    Charlie knew instinctively what was about to happen.  One of the two
would die if "something" did not intervene soon.  Charlie could not bear this
thought.  The "something" acted.
    "NO!"  A roar of wild power coarsed through him, a rush that surprised
even him.  His power, his "something", had finally "come of age".  At this
point, he seemed to be nothing more than a bystander.  The power ripped
through reality like a knife, shredding all in its path.  It seemed as if his
vision was falling apart.
    In a flash, it was over.  He realized he was standing where he had
summoned the old man.  Enigma lay curled up on the floor beside him,
unconscious.
    He looked up at the old man, and noticed a certain awe in his eyes.
    "Well, Charlie, seems as how I misjudged ya a bit," said the old man.
"Perhaps I could make ya an offa.  Ya know, somethin ya couldn't refuse."
    The old man paced back and forth awhile, and Charlie stared after him
with a slightly confused look on his face.  Finally, the old man reached
inside his jacket pocket and withdrew a long cigar, bit one end off, and lit
it with a small flame that appeared at the tip of his thumb.  "Now I think I
have something for ya, Charlie.  Whatta ya say to a job as a minor partner in
my orginization, ya know in charge of procurement, if ya know what I mean?"
    "No," said Charlie.
    "Oh, ya don't know what procurement means.  Well, what that means is"
    "No," said Charlie, much more fiercely.
    "Oh well, I had wished ta spare the both of us a lot of trouble, but if
that's the way ya want it, I at least gotta respect your feelings.  Even if I
don't agree with dem.
    "Well, pal, shake my hand, and I'll go back to my place so's we can start
this feud again."
    Charlie walked foreward to shake the old man's hand, but as he did, the
old man grabbed him by the sides of the head and kissed him soundly on the
forehead.  "Laugh that off if ya can, sucker."
    Charlie looked up to see what was happening and realized that his nemesis
had disappeared.
    Charlie was somewhat disturbed by that last comment.  What did the old
man mean by "laugh that one off"?
    His thoughts were disturbed by Enigma's awakening.  She had no
recollection of events after they were swept into the savannah, so he related
them to her in thought.  He found that they could easily share images as well
as single thoughts with a little more concentration.
    She was disturbed by the old man's comment as well.  "I have a bad
feeling about all this, my love.  Our guard must never be let down.  He could
strike at any time."
    "But why is he even doing this?  Why is he our enemy?"
    "Because, my love, his soul is evil.  He craves the power within you.  He
must take your soul to take the power, and he cannot do that without your
consent.  Since you will not readily avail your power to him, it is his will
to destroy you."
    "I see.  Do you think he has the power to overcome mine?"
    "Only if you do not master it.  He believes you are full master of your
power.  This is why he does not destroy you outright.  He is a powerful
being, but not powerful enough to survive a battle with a power such as
yours.  Master your power, and destroy him for us!"
    Enigma's statment shook him.  US?  He was beginning to realize why she
took the name of Enigma.
    They embraced for a moment then parted and began to walk in no particular
direction. Suddenly, a group of men in grey pin-striped suits
appeared in a single line clutching tommy-guns and opened fire.Charlie and
Enigma tried to shield each other from the shots and found themselves un-
hurt by the phantom gunfire. The men were gone. Only a pile of brass remained
to mark their location.
    "He has a sense of humour too,"said Enigma woefully."In hell a practical
joke is considered a transcendant form of art."
    "That explains his wardrobe."said Charlie in an attempt to lighten the
situation."Enigma...Are we in hell now?"
    "No, and neither is he... He only resides there."
    "You don't mean..."
    "No," She quickly replied," He's only a servant of the horned one...once
in a great while he sneaks away to to ravage some unknowing planet and he
drags some poor dupe into what he calls 'the Grand Sceme'."
    "And, I'm the dupe?"
    "Well..." She toed at the ground," Y-yes...but I didn't mean..."
    "I know." Charlie pressed his lips against her cheek. "Well since I have
the power, I think I'll create a more suitable environment for us."
    Charlie raised his hands to the sky as if he were a conductor about to
lead the greatest symphony before the universe. With a series of graceful
and somewhat dramatic gestures he swept himself and his striped lover up
in a chariot of swirling lights and gasses. The two sped off into the
distance.
Charlie found that the power was coming more and more easily to his bidding.
But something still was wrong.  It also came of its own, sometimes.  And
sometimes it came but he couldn't quite control it.  Suddenly, Charlie
noticed that Enigma was thinking the same thoughts.  Wait... were they
thinking in tandem?  Were they that close?  Perhaps her minor powers mixed
with his stronger powers...
  At that moment, a fiery haed appeared in the sky, saying, "You ain't
got a chanst, bub.  Where you gonna go? Heh, heh, heh."  The voice was
obviously the old man's.  Slowly, the dragon head gained a neck, then a
torso. The legs of the dragon began to take shape... they were swirling
smoke.  Finally, with a murderous scream, the dragon-thing swung its smoky
tail at the chariot...
The chariot twisted and fell.  Fell hundreds of feet in seconds.  Charlie
almost blacked out.  He wispered something vaguely familiar to Enigma.  Who
was on the brink of unconsciousness.  The chariot was disolving.  Charlie's
powers over it were fading.
    He thought to himself, "He bears the armor of Atlas, the wings of Hermes,
and the appearance of a god."
Charlie was only interested in stopping the Chariot and reviving Enigma.  He
thought about stopping the Chariot and it stopped.  He thought about the
ground and they were upon it.  His powers had at least doubled in the last 15
seconds.  He felt himself losing control of his thoughts of the Warrior.  He
couldn't lose the warrior.  Concentrate!
Enigma awoke and read Charlie's mind and found the Warrior within it.  She
concentrated on the Warrior.  Charlie felt himself gaining control of the
Warrior again, and noticed Enigma's thoughts of HIS Warrior.
"What is she doing?  How is she doing that?", he thought.
She only smiled and watched the battle of the Warrior and Dragon unfold.
    The mighty warrior blinked and shook his head.  One moment he was dining
with the mighty Norse gods after defeating Loki in a wrestling match, and
then, as he reached across the table for another haunch of roast venison, he
had felt a might force pull him upright, and yank him sideways.  At first, he
had imagined that Loki was displeased with his defeat, and wished revenge,
but the force felt not evil, but good.  This was very puzzling.
    He looked about and saw a great dragon, one whose evil hung in the air
and left a bitter taste in his mouth.  "This must be my foe," he thought,
"but I must know for whom I am a champion."  With this thought, he bellowed
at the top of his lungs, "Your champion has arrived, show yourself, and I
will defend you, Oh mighty wizard!"
    Charlie was nearly deafened by the warrior's mighty yell, but realized
that the best course would be to show himself as his ally wished.  He stood,
and the titan, in a thankfully more quiet voice said, "Although you are but a
boy, I have felt the power and good that are contained within you.  I shall
champion your cause.  Do you wish this evil serpent slain, or merely subdued,
lord magician?"
  A wave of nausea suddenly washed over him.  Oh, god, thought Charlie, I
feel...feel awful.  The images around him began to blur, fuzz out.  Got to
concentrate, he struggled with himself, focus--got to be strong!  In--in
control! Can't be caught weak!
  Clarity began to return slowly then accelerating.  It felt almost as though
he was swimming up from murky depths into clear surface waters.
  He saw Enigma's face haloed with a softly glaring light.  Saw her lips
move. realized field of vision and he tried to turn his
head but couldn't.  Something pulled uncomfortably at his scalp.  He felt a
slight, sharp pain in his neck before everything went.  A wave of panic coursed
through him before he blacked out.
  "Who am I?  WHAT'S HAPPENING TO ME?"
    Colors streamed past his eyes; first in lines, then in bubbles, followed
by rings and stars.  A queasy feeling rose in his stomach and his throbbed
like the bass beat from a rap song.
    Charles awoke and rose slowly from the ground, first kneeling, then
jumping quickly to his feet as the chain mail cut into his skin.  He
retrieved his shield and checked to be sure that his ancestral sword was
still in its sheath.
    Looking at the symbol on his shield, a roaring flame, thoughts flickered
through his mind, and the queasy feeling returned.  What was a rap song?
What was a bass beat?  Why was there a flame on his shield?   Oh yes, he had
used his lighter to subvert all those strange creatures.  Lighter?
Oh well, he thought, I might as well see what is over this hill, carefully
checking to be sure that his blaster and body shield were at full charge.
    As Charlie-5 reached the crest of the hill, he dropped flat on his belly,
and began to crawl to a point where he could see the other side.  He got out
his binoculars, and scanned the valley below him.
    The valley was vast, more than 20 miles across and at least 50 miles
long.  The northern half had a thick cover of trees obscuring Charlie-5's
view completely except for a stone tower rising from the middle.   A stream
flowed from the forest through a ragged lines of bullocks and into the bright
green meadows that covered the southern half of the valley.      At the far
southern end of the valley, a pleasant stone house stood.  About it was a
barnyard, and shapes moved within the confines of it's fences.
      He trotted down to the small house and called to the people who were
wandering about the yard, but they were no where to be found. He called to
those who might be in the house then entered to find a sterile operating
room and himself lying on the table beneath a surgeon who was taking a saw
to his scalp. Charlie froze in horror as a more human form of his lover
passed instruments to the doctor. Suddenly his brains were spilling out
onto the floor as the doctor carelessly tossed the top of his scull into
the scrap bucket.
      " Stop!" Charlie screamed," What the hell are you doing to me?!"
      Charlie awoke in a hospital bed and felt the bandages around his head.
He looked at the tubes running into his then glanced down his nose at the
hose running out of his nostril.
      " It can't be." He said quietly with tears running from his eyes," I
was there...I was really there."
      At that moment, the nurse walked in; a large doughy looking woman with
a wide face. " Oh, you're awake ." She walked toward the bed and took
Charlie's wrist to check his pulse. Charlie just leaned back and sighed.
He soon noticed, however, that she was squeezing his wrist rather tightly
until the pain was unbearable. She jerked him out of his bed and yanked the
tubes and hoses from his body then tossed him against the wall. Charlie
slowly lifted his head and watched the fat nurse turn into a scaled beast.
It charged at him and crashed through the wall into the next room  as Charlie
dove aside. It turned to attack again, but Charlie lifted his hand,
"Oh, no..." He said with determination," You've had it!"
      A shaft of lightning shot from his fingertips and reduced the beast to
a pile of ashes and bones. Charlie caught his breath and began removing the
bandages, but stopped and breathed a sigh of exasperation. He clapped his
hands once and walked out of his room fully dressed in a black flight suit
and boots.
       He walked proudly down the white corridor causing a draft to follow
him like an ocean wake that knocked over carts and blew papers and small
appliances off t desk at the nurses station. As he passed a supply closet
door a pair of hands grabbed him and jerked him inside. Suddenly a pair of
lips were pressed against his and a soft moist tongue slid into his mouth.
The kiss ended after a moment and the closet light went on.
       " I knew it was you," He said " You give me energy."
       Enigma stood before him and stripped off her nurses uniform revealing
her tigress colors which slowly overtook the monotoned pigmentation of her
human disguise." You give me energy too."
       Charlie snapped his fingers and stood naked with Enigma then took her
in his arms. They smothered each other with kisses that slowly left the area
about their faces and liberally traced new routes over each others bodies.
Enigma got down on her knees and used her oral talents to please Charlie
until he climaxed. They soon were laying amongst the clothes on the floor
moving their torsos rythmically together and offering breathless kisses to
one another. Their moans announced their orgasms and they settled together
for a brief rest.
       The two walked arm in arm down the hall until they reached the
operating theatre.There they found their tormentor in the guise of a surgeon
seated in a throne that rested beneath the bright overhead lights. Shapely
nurses nuzzled him and supplicated about his legs.
       "No more games!" Charlie's voice boomed," You must face me now 'cause
you've run out of tricks."
       " So, it's going to be a battle of pure power." He responded," You
can't hope to win...I'll wipe you out of existance!" And, he lifted his hands
to the ceiling. Charlie raised his hands," you have no power left...
You're old and weak...Your last trick proved that."
Swirling gasses and bright lights gathered about Charlie and beams of pure
energy shot from Charlie's hands and fully enveloped the surgeon.
    "Thank you, Charlie," purred Enigma.  "You have rid us of the last
obstacle in our quest."  And slowly her form shifted.  She became shorter
first, then her stunning fur became long and stringy.  Her clawed hands
became gruesome talons with loosly hanging flesh.  "Now Charlie, join your
misbegotten lover!" said the demon, raising his clenched fists above his head
and then bringing them forcefully down to point at the stunned Charlie
who stared numbly at the form he had slain.  Before his eyes it changed until
his beloved wore the surgical gown and mask.
    Charlie cried out, "Noo!"  but was too late, as the blast of energy
ripped him to shreds.


Authors in order of first appearance.


Author: #0098-Fresno Bob
Author: #0209-Shandor & FartZ
Author: #0036-Otis Knight
Author: #0019-Ed Gein
Author: #0024-Elric
Author: #0126-Alice
Author: #0192-Dr Kilgore Trout
Author: #0172-PRESSBUTTON!
Author: #0001-Sapphire
Author: #0030-M

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
