
      SSWC - Bell Research Report (Vol I)

      All research gathered, tested and mastered by the original
      members of SSWC: 

      Chance - The Technician - Cellular Phantom

      
      This text will give you an in depth look at some unexplored
      technician departments located in the Bell System. As well
      as newly discovered equipment and electronic devices used
      by Bell Technicians. Note that information in this file is
      subject to change. However, we will try to keep you updated
      as much as possible.

      There are many different types of acronyms used in this text.
      You will find a list these acronyms at the end of this file.



   We will begin the file by discussing a mechanical/electronic
device used by the Cable Transfer Administration (CTA) known as
a Transfer Switch. This device is specifically used to verify a
working line on both the "from" cable pair and the "to" cable
pair through the backtap, and is transparent to the customer (in
other words the device is unnoticeable to the customer).     
Although the Transfer Switch itself is located at the CO, CTA
is responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of the Transfer
Switch. 

   Next we will discuss a department of Bell known as the
Distribution Service Design Center (DSDC). The Cable Transfer
Representative (this person is a clerk for DSDC), will prepare
the Cable Transfer Schedule and assist the other representatives
in coordinating telephone line repair and completion dates.
The engineering job schedule, service requirement dates, pending
or potential held orders, age of job, etc, will determine the
priority of each scheduled completion date. It is the 
responsibility of DSDC Transfer Representatives and Committees
to provide a splicing sequence and resultant fill on an
Engineering Work Order (EWO). The DSDC will determine the number
of "Plain Old Telephone Service" (POTS) circuits and special
and designed services on the EWO. They will help determine if
the rearrangements and changes incorporated in the EWO will
necessitate a design review by the Circuit Provision Center (CPC).
The DSDC will forward to the CPC old and new line makeups for
designed service. The DSDC scheduling engineer is responsible
for reviewing old and new EWOs involving cable, line, or station
rearrangements and for establishing the time needed for job completion. After reviewing old work orders, the DSDC shall
do one of the following:



1. Reschedule the cable, line, or station transfers.

2. Initiate a revision of the transfer so it will be compatible
   with existing conditions.

3. Issue a cancellation of the particular transfer in question.

   The Circuit Provision Center (CPC) involves cable, line, or
station transfer procedures when it is presented a notification
of a cable transfer and an indication that special services are
involved. The CPC will receive notification from the DSDC that 
a circuit change will be required. The notification document 
will provide the CPC with:

A. Project number and expected record issue date (RID) and 
   due date

B. Common language circuit identification (CLCI)

C. Old assignment and makeup 

D. New assignment and makeup. 

   It is the responsibility for The Frame Control Center (FCC)
and affiliated representatives to contact each CO involved in a
cable transfer and will be a member of the Cable Transfer
Committee (CTC), and will attend committee meetings. The CTC
will also make frame cross-connect activity completion
commitments. Placing and removing front-tap connectors, sending
tone, and connecting automatic taggers and Central Work Group 
(CWG) talk pairs shall be the responsibility of the FCC.

   Upon receiving of either the Exchange Customer Cable Record
(ECCR), Computer Systems for Mainframe Operations (COSMOS)
printouts, or local forms from the Loop Assignment Center (LAC),
the Central Office Work Group (COWG) shall make a verification
and test of the transferring cable counts and resolve all
record problems with the LAC. The COWG will use the following
procedures for verification and test:

1. Verify the telephone number on all working pairs in both
   the "from" and "to" counts and check for any vacant pairs not
   listed.

2. Test all vacant pairs in the "to" count, using the Go/No-Go 
   test set or equivalent.

3. Any discrepancy found as determined in (1) or (2) shall be
   posted and the forms returned to the LAC on or before the 
   scheduled completion date for verification and pretest as
   shown on the transfer schedule.



   Note: Verification and pretests are extremely important in
         preventing future service interruptions, unresolved
         discrepancies, and cost delays. (In other words this
         is done so Bell won't loose a dime of their precious
         "millions".

   After placing the backtaps, the COWG must validate that the
backtaps are correct and any work or record problems found, will
be corrected by the COWG and forwarded to the LAC for updating
records. In work locations where COSMOS is fully used, the 
transfer MUST be stated in COSMOS, when backtaps are placed or
removed, by using the appropriate work code found in the COSMOS
Frame Training Manual.




  
      *   Note to the reader: All Bell departments discussed in
            in this text work together on a regular basis,
            generally when their is a problem with a cable 
            transfer or with similar related equipment, the
            Bell departments will interact with each other in
            order to remedy the problem.

          This concludes SSWCs Bell Research Report (Vol I).
          The information contained in this file is solely
          for the use of Phone Phreaks that FULLY understand
          what has been discussed. If you do not FULLY 
          understand what has been discussed in this file,
          it is extremely advisable not to attempt to use any
          of this information, whereas you could cause an
          extreme negative impact on your knowledge as a Phone
          Phreak. Have a good time, learn what you can, but
          never think you know more than you do. To the
          novice this file is all technical BullShit. 
          However to the Eliteness its much, much more.



GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS:

         CLCI   - Common Language Circuit Identification

         COSMOS - Computer System for Mainframe Operations

         COWG   - Central Office Work Group 
 
         CPC    - Circuit Provision Center

         CMC    - Construction Management Center 



         CTA    - Cable Transfer Administration 

         DSDC   - Distribution Service Design Center

         ECCR   - Exchange Customer Cable Record

         EWO    - Engineering Work Order

         FCC    - Frame Control Center

         LAC    - Loop Assignment Center

         POTS   - Plain Old Telephone Service

         RID    - Record Issue Date

         SSC    - Special Service Center

         


   *** SSWC: Were just getting started...













 
         
    
