

Ok, I'm going to assume that you already know a little bit about what it
is you're reading.  The DMS100/IBN (integrated business network) is
composed of mainly electronic business sets, phones, data units, and
attendant consoles and units, all physically at the customers place of
business.  While the digital switching software and support hardware is
located at the Telco.  Together, in tandem they work to give the customer
one of the best combinations of features and benefits.  The DMS-100
combines voice AND data in one business comunications package.  One of
the many advantages is it offers the use with *any* sized business with
up to 30,000 lines.  The IBN system controls most operations, diagnoses
problems, and also has the ability to do limited repairs on itself.
Being modular, it can meet the needs at hand, and have the ability for
new features, as time goes by, while still maintaining a cost-effective
environment.  Another advantage is that is uses a central attendant where
and when needed.  Along with Call Routing, or CDR, to control and
restrict Long Distnace Calling, and network management.  The IBN gives
the user hassle free operation.  Northern Telcom's DMS-100 switches,
which by the way are digital, are frequently backed-up by their
*higher trained* personnel, which isnt saying much.  Some other features
are: Automatic Routing Selection, or ARS, which routes the long distance
calls, if they are even allowed, over the most economical (right) route
available.  Station Message Detail Recording, or SMDR, which basically
does just what its name states, records long distance charges, including
but not limited to, originating number, time and length of call,
authorization code, and others...  Yet another capability is the Direct
Inward System Access (DISA), which gives the personnel the ability to use
the system to place long distance calls cheaply, even from outside the
company (sounds like a PBX a bit doesn't it?).
System Features and Benefits:  There are 6 Call Waiting Lamp Loop Keys,
each with its associated source AND destination lamp to signify the
status of both the calling and the called party status.  The Second
feature is Alpha Numeric Display Multiple Directory Number Feature Keys,
up to 42 of them, which can be used for a Paging System, or speed
dialing, and things along those lines.  A third feature is the release
Source/Release Destination Console, which features access to paging.
Other features which mainly are unimportant I will list here, they are:
Call Identifier Exclude Source/Exclude Destination.  Remote Console Call
Destination.  Signal Source.Signal Destination.  Call Holding.  Call
Detail Entry.  Remote Console Call Selection.  Console Display.  Camp-on
Automatic Recall Conference.  A 6 port 2 way splitting non-delayed
operation.  Busy Verification of Lines.  Manual and Automatic Hold.
Multiple Console OPeration.  Busy verification of trunks. Switched Loop
Operation.  Trunk Group Busy Indication.  Uniform Call distribution form
queue.  Multiple listed directory numbers.  Control of trunk group
access.  Secrecy.  Night Service.  Serial call.  Speed Calling.  Lockout.
 Delayed Operation.  Position Busy.  Interposition Calling.  THrough Call
Pickup.  RIng Again.  Multiple Directory Numbers.  Intercom.  Speed
Call.  Call Transfer/Conference.  On-Hook Dialing.  Additional
Programmable Features include automatic hold.  Listem-on hold.  Multiple
Appearance Directory Numbers, or MADN.  Single Call Arrangement.
Multiple Call Arrangement.  Privacy Release.  Tone Ringing with Volume
Control.  Call Waiting.  Stored Number Redial.  Private Business Line.
And Finally a 32 character alphanumeric data unit.  The DMS100/IBN can be
used as a "standalone" or can be attached to the business set or other
phone type unit.  It has the ability to transmit over a two wire loop, at
speeds of up to 56 kb per second, using a proprietary time compression
multiplexing technology.  The DMS100 is also available in different
models to suit existing terminal capacities.  It also provides integrated
voice/data, that right data, communications.  They, the phone company,
and data unit, can operate together, simultaniously, or even independant
of one another.  Being fully digitized, it was one if the first switches
to eliminate the use of those dinosaur analog modems (for which i still
have a few if anyone wants to buy em off me or give me shipping money and
ill send em to ya free).  Well thats it for now.  This should give you a
good understanding of the capabilities of one of the many switches in use
today.  In fact, although outdated somewhat, my telco, citizens
utilities, and one in stockton from what i just found out, is still using
this switch (poor me in elk grove, ca eh?)
which makes phreaking quite an easy task, not that it was really ever
hard but anything to make it easier help.  ANyway, if you have any
comments/flames/general bullshit, mail it to either
jmatrix@mindvox.phantom.com or capthook@sekurity.com the latter being a
last resort email address.
ciao
                                             ---Captain Hook

------------------------------------------------------------------------------