
FRAUD

PBX USERS FALLING VICTIM TO DETERMINED RIP-OFF SCHEMES

"Dumpster Divers" and disenchanted employees can run up 
costly bills

PBX fraud has turned into a thriving business for the
criminals running up millions of dollars worth of phony 
calls, and a nightmare for the companies that are being 
victimized. Since the user companies - not the switch 
manufacturers who have been sued unsuccessfully - are 
responsible for fighting this increasingly wide-spread 
crime, we offer descriptions of the fraudulent calling 
techniques and some tips for defeating them.

PBX REMOTE ACCESS

Any customer offering remote PBX access via 800 service
can be victimized by this kind of fraud, which is 
impossible to prevent totally. 


Although many of the 800 numbers used for remote PBX 
access are not published, they, like the access codes they 
work with, may be illegally obtained and sold. If no code 
is needed to gain remote access, the fraud is even more 
easily accomplished. Those numbers frequently ring through 
to a tone instead of an operator. Once the 800 number is 
dialed and an access code is entered, a dial tone is 
provided that allows illegal callers to dial anywhere in 
the world. 

Access codes may be obtained in a number of ways. That is 
where such industrious types as "Dumpster Divers" enter 
the picture. As their name suggests, Dumpster Divers 
actually comb through reams of trash in order to find 
access codes; the numbers may then be used by them or sold 
to other illicit users for up to $10,000. Terminated or 
disgruntled employees may also have access to the 
numbers.

The more technically-minded criminals dial up 800 numbers 
and set computers to work dialing hundreds of random 
number combinations per minute until they hit a legitimate 
access code combination. 

The first step in combating this form of fraud is to use
access codes. In large businesses with lots of turnover,
change the codes at least monthly. Change them, as well, 
if it is determined that a terminated or disgruntled employee 
may have an ax to grind. 

A few words to the wise: Make sure the access codes are 
comprised of at least six or seven digits; thoughtless 
combinations like R1-2-3S can be easily ferreted out.

Monitoring call patterns closely can also help weed out
fraudulent offenders. Actually, this defense tactic is 
applicable against any PBX fraud technique. Keep on the 
lookout for abnormal calling, such as late-night calling, 
long-duration calls and repeated calls to specific areas.


PBXs should also be programmed to establish a threshold 
for the number of calls allowed within a given time period 
using any one access code and to disable that access code 
when the threshold is reached.

INMATE FRAUD

If it is true that idle hands are the Devil's workshop, 
it should come as no surprise that prisons have become 
a major center of operations for PBX-based fraud. Inmates 
are representing themselves as New England Telephone 
employees in order to gain access to an outside line 
through business customers' switchboards. They call 
PBX attendants collect, alleging that they are working
in the area and will need to pass calls through the 
attendant for completion.

The fact of the matter is this: New England Telephone 
personnel do not make collect calls to any of our 
subscribers, and they should not accept such calls.  

