			   Renaissance'93 presents...  
  ____    ____        _    _        _                       _
 /    \__/    \      | |  | |      | |                     | |
|              |_   _| | _| |__   _| |__ _  __ __  _   __  | | _ _____  _  __
|              | | | | ||_   __|(|_   __| |/ _|  \| |/    \| |/ |     \| |/ _|
|    |    |    | | | | |  | | _ | || | _|  /|  ()   |  / \_|   /   () /|  / 
|    |\__/|    | \_/ | |  | || || || || | | |       |  \_/ |   \  \__/\| |
|____/    \____|\___/|_|  \___/ |_|\___/|_|  \___/|_|\____/|_|\_|_____/|_|


				Module Editor
				   v1.01á
  
	   The first public 32-track digital composer for use with both 
		       SoundBlaster(tm) compatible cards
			 and the Gravis Ultrasound(tm)
		    
		    Copyright (c)1993   Daniel Goldstein

			  (a.k.a. Starscream/Ren'93)






Contents
--------
I    Introduction
1.1     What IS Multitracker Module Editor?
1.2     Hardware requirements
1.3     Format compatibility
1.4     Shareware and registration

II   Basic Concepts
2.1     Digital Playback
2.2     Samples
2.3     Tracks
2.4     Patterns
2.6     Orders
2.5     Effects

III  Using the main editor
3.1     Moving around
3.2     Entering notes     
3.3     Entering instrument numbers
3.4     Entering effects
3.5     Playing your music
3.6     Copying functions
3.7     Turning tracks on/off

IV   Using the sample menu
4.1     Loading a sample/patch
4.2     Setting loop points and standard volume
4.3     Entering a sample name
4.4     Inserting and deleting samples
4.5     Toggling signed/unsigned data
4.6     Saving a sample

V    Using the sequencer (order editor)
5.1     Creating patterns
5.2     Inserting and deleting orders

VI   Miscellaneous
6.1     Song name
6.2     Song Message
6.3     Palette editing (registered version only)
6.4     Pan Positions
6.5     Loading and saving files
6.6     Clearing large amounts of data     
6.7     Memory indicators

VII  Closing

VIII Reference
6.1     List of Keys
6.2     Protracker effects




















Section II - Introduction
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.1     What IS Multitracker Module Editor?

	The Multitracker Module Editor is a system by which you can compose
professional sounding music on your personal computer.  It has a minimum of
hardware requirements (see section 1.2) because it was designed so that nearly
anyone can use it.  Even if you don't have a lot (or even any) knowledge of
music theory, you can play around with this program and have a lot of fun. :)
Read this text file and you'll be ready to make some cool music!


1.2     Hardware requirements

	The only requirements for running this program are a 386 computer 
and either a Soundblaster(tm) compatible or Gravis Ultrasound(tm) sound card.  
With a Soundblaster(tm) compatible, it is much better if you have a fast 386 
(meaning a DX) because you can achieve higher mixing rates.  This basically 
just means that the music will sound better.  If you have a very slow 
computer, it is possible that you will not be able to run all 32 tracks 
simultaneously.  If this happens, you should try lowering the mixing rate... 
however, be aware that this will make the sound worse.  You may be better off 
just keeping a high mixing rate and using less voices in your musical
compositions.  Note that although a low mixing rate will make the music sound
worse during composition, when the music is played back normally it will
sound fine.
	With a Gravis Ultrasound(tm), you can only store as much sample data
as you have RAM on the card.  The normal base configuration for a GUS is
256K.  The editor will automatically detect and tell you how much free
memory is on your GUS at any given time.  Unfortunately, people who own
cards with only 256K of memory may not be able to play the larger musical
compositions available.  The same goes for people using a Soundblaster(tm)
compatible card, since with those cards you must use the computer's RAM
for storage of the sample data.  However, using computer memory should 
result in more than 256K being available.  The only difference is that this
memory is used to store pattern data as well.


1.3     Format compatibility

	The Multitracker format (file extension .MTM meaning MultiTracker 
Module) is fully compatible with the .MOD format.  It uses the standard MOD
Protracker effect codes, so if you've written MOD's before you should feel
right at home.  The only major difference between MTM's and MOD's is that
MTM's are sequenced by the track as well as by the pattern.  This was done
simply because repeated tracks are very memory wasteful... it still retains 
full format compatibility.  

*NOTE* Track sequencing does not affect the way that you write an MTM in any 
       way whatsoever.  The editor will handle all track sequencing for you.
       The explanation is provided for the information of programmers who wish 
       to support the format only.
	
	From the editor, you can directly load a few different formats.
These include MTM's, MOD's (15 instrument, 31 instrument and multichannel),
669's, and FAR's.  Both MTM's and MOD's should load perfectly.  669's are 
converted from what is essentially a totally different format.  Therefore, they 
may not sound entirely correct through this playback system.  Note that the
669 loader in the original version of this program was far from perfect, and
has since been greatly improved.  FAR's should play pretty much correctly, and 
the loader routine is still being updated.  Coming soon are loader routines 
for several other formats, a few of which may include ULT's, S3M's, PSM's, and 
OKT's.


1.4     Shareware and registration

	This program has been released as what is called "Shareware".
Shareware is a type of software which you can share with anyone you like,
copying it freely.  Anyone can try it out for a while without paying for the
software.  However, the trial period for this program is just 14 days.  That
means that legally, you must erase all of your functional copies of this
program fourteen days after you have first tried it out.  
	After giving it a few test runs, you may also choose to buy the 
program.  This is called registration.  By registering this editor, you will 
be allowed to continue using it indefinitely.  You will also get a "key file"
in the mail, which will enable a few cool new features, such as GUS patch 
loading and the ability to change the palette configuration.
	I suggest that you register this program for a few reasons.  First of
all, I believe that shareware is a wonderful way to market quality software.
It benefits the consumer, because if you do not like the program, you do not
have to pay for it, whereas if you buy a commercial software product you
often do not know exactly what you are getting for your money.  Secondly,
registering a piece of software is like giving a positive message to the 
author that you would like to see more programs like the one he has written.
Thirdly, you can send comments and questions about the program along with your
registration fee, to which the author will listen and quite possibly respond.
	
	If you would like more information on how to register the MultiTracker
Module Editor, please see the file REGISTER.DOC which came with this program.




















Section II - Basic Concepts
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.1     Digital Playback

	*NOTE* This is not going to tell you how to program a music player.
	       This section of text was written for people who have never 
	       used a digital composer before.

	The idea behind digital music playback is really pretty simple.  It 
all begins with what are called samples.  These samples are essentially the 
same as 'computerized tape-recordings' of music, various instruments, people 
speaking, drums, or anything else that makes a sound.  When played back at
different speeds, these samples take on different pitches.  With some work,
your computer can mix together several of these samples while also altering
their pitches.  If the samples are of instruments, this can simulate real
music very nicely.  For instance, you could have three notes of a piano
sample making a chord, a drum beating- even an entire orchestra! 
	You may have seen that this is a 32-track (or, more accurately, a
32-voice) composer.  This means that you can have up to 32 different samples
playing at any one time.  Previously, there have been many 4 voice and a 
couple of 8 voice composers available.  Obviously, it is a little bit
limited being able to use only 4 samples at a time.  It's like playing a piano
with four fingers, except that you have to use one or two of your fingers
for playing drums and another finger for any instruments in the background.
	With 32 different voices, you can play basically as many instuments
and as many simultaneous notes as you would EVER need.  Unfortunately, until
recently, computers weren't really fast enough to handle much more than 4
voices.  Now, it has become a possibility (although it is still very hard to
write a program that will do it on everyone's computer) and computerized
music will obviously start to sound a lot better.

2.2     Samples

	In the editor, there is a list of samples on the top left of the
screen.  You can access this, which I will refer to as the Sample Menu, by 
pressing either the TAB key or the F1 key.  It looks something like the
following:

 # .Sample Name          .Length.LoopB .LoopE .Vl.
 1 ³BassDrum             ³5895  ³0     ³0     ³64³
 2 ³Snare1               ³2454  ³0     ³0     ³59³
 3 ³Hi-hat               ³2000  ³0     ³0     ³64³
 4 ³ChoirMajor           ³29567 ³158   ³28775 ³30³
 5 ³ChoirMinor           ³27999 ³324   ³25000 ³30³
 6 ³Piano2               ³10534 ³0     ³0     ³64³
 7 ³.....................³0     ³0     ³0     ³0 ³
 8 ³.....................³0     ³0     ³0     ³0 ³
 9 ³.....................³0     ³0     ³0     ³0 ³
 A ³.....................³0     ³0     ³0     ³0 ³
 B ³.....................³0     ³0     ³0     ³0 ³
 C ³.....................³0     ³0     ³0     ³0 ³
     
	First comes the sample number.  (under the '#' header)  This can be
any number/letter from 1 to 9 and A to V.  (A is really sample 10, B=11, 
C=12, etc.)  If you had counted on your fingers, you would realize this gives 
you a total of 31 samples you can use.
	Second is the Sample name.  (under the 'Sample Name' header)  This
is merely whatever you want to call the specific samples.  It's easier to
remember sample #6 by the name 'Piano2' than by the number 6.  Many people
who release their musics over bulletin boards replace the sample names with
a message to people listening to their music.  (They do this once they have
finished writing the music, not while they write it.)
	Third is the Sample Length.  (under the 'Length' header)  It is the
the amount of memory that each sample takes in bytes.
	Fourth comes the Beginning of the Sample Loop.  (under the 'LoopB'
header) Many samples loop around on themselves to make them seem longer. 
This is a nice trick for a couple of reasons.  First of all, it takes up less
memory on your computer than storing one huge sample.  Secondly, it sounds
really good for certain instruments.  For example, you would use this 
technique to sustain a string instrument tone.  It would not be useful to
sustain a drum in most cases.  Even though loops can sound quite good, you
will often have to play around with the values for where in the sample the 
loop starts and ends.  The best method for this is to use a separate sample
editing program and write down the numbers you wish to use in this program.
Then, you can come back to this and write in the loop begins and ends.
	Fifth is the End of the Sample Loop.  (under the 'LoopE' header)
This is merely the offset of the end of the sample loop in bytes.
	Sixth, all the way on the right, is the sample default volume.
(under the 'Vl' header)  This is a value from zero to 64.  (64 is loudest,
zero is silent)  The default volume is the volume at which the sample will be
played when you don't specify a volume for a particular note.


2.3     Notes
	The most basic element of any song is the note.  In an MTM, much like
in normal musical notation, each note can also have an effect (like tremolo,
vibrato, volume) which goes along with it.  Finally, each note also contains
a sample (sometimes refered to as an instrument) number.  Notes look like
this:

	     ³C#3A³000³
	note__/ ³³  \____effect
      octave____/³      
      sample_____/

	Effects will later be explained in full detail.  For now, all you
need to know about notes is that they have a note, octave and sample number
field.  This should be relatively self-explanatory.


2.3     Tracks

	The track is simply a list of 64 notes, each note played after the 
last at the current tempo.  However, there is one important thing about 
tracks, more accurately called voices, that you must remember.  If at one 
beat a note is played on some track and a few beats later a second note is 
played on that same track, then the second note will cut off the first.  Of
course, either you may want this to happen or the first note could
end before the second is ready to be played, but nevertheless you must keep 
this fact in mind as you compose.


2.4     Patterns

	Patterns are what make a module (a musical composition) into a song, 
rather than just a bunch of notes put together.  They also let you play more
than one note at once.  Each pattern consists of 32 separate sample tracks.  
All, none, or a few of these tracks may be enabled at any given time.  When 
the pattern is played, all of the enabled tracks are played back 
simultaneously, from start to finish, at the tempo of the module.  You may
ask why anyone would disable some of the tracks.  Well, for people using
SoundBlaster(tm) compatible cards, the more tracks that are enabled, the more
the sound quality drops.  GUS people will still hear the piece at full
quality.  It is, however, not always so pleasant for the composer.
	
	
2.5     Orders
	
	A pattern can be thought of as a page of music, although it is
usually not that long.  As it turns out, you can combine these 'pages' in
any order you choose, even repeating a page more than once during your piece.
This is called ORDER SEQUENCING.  Your module may have a sequence up to
127 orders long.  Each pattern (refered to by number) in the sequence is
called an order(as you may have guessed).  There should be ample space for
nearly any composition.


2.5     Effects

	The following is probably the most complex part of a module, since
it requires you to learn a new numbering system.  However, don't give up!
Even if you are relatively new to modules, you should not have too tough a 
time trying to understand it:

	To the right of every note is what is called the effect field:

³A#25³000³
      ^^^ this thing!

      The effect field is normally set at 000.  This means that no effect is
going to be played at that note position.  Other number combinations specify
various musical effects.  These number combinations are written in what is
called hexadecimal.  Hexadecimal is a number system with six extra possible
'numbers' for each digit.  (Base-16 for math people)  Thus the name 
HEX-a-decimal.  (HEX means six... like hexagon!)  What are these other numbers
you ask?  A, B, C, D, E, and F.  'A' really means 10, B really means 11, etc.
Anyway, the first digit in the effect field is the effect number.  This ranges
from 0 to F.  (effects 0-15)  You can look up which effect is which in the 
reference table at the end of this document.  There is also online effect
help screen accessible by pressing ALT-SLASH(on the question mark key).  This 
gives a short description of each effect and its arguments.
	The righthand two digits are the argument(s) for the effect.
Depending on the effect number, the arguments can be viewed as either one
two-digit hexadecimal number or as two separate hexadecimal numbers.  When
it is viewed as a single two-digit argument, you can calculate the value by
multiplying the lefthand digit by 16 and adding the righthand digit's value.
For example:  39 hex=3*16+9=57 decimal.   D4 hex=13*16+4=312 decimal.
	If you still don't understand, please either have someone explain it
to you or else re-read this section, paying close attention to the examples
given.  Good modules ALWAYS have at least a few effects in them, so it would
be quite beneficial if you learned how to do hex calculations in your head.

      


















Section III - The main editor
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3.1     Moving around

	It is very easy to move around inside of the main editor.  You may
use the left and right cursor keys to move left or right one FIELD.  This is
not one track.  If you wish to move one entire track, you have your choice
of two sets of keys:  either CTRL-LEFT/CTRL-RIGHT or SHIFT-TAB/TAB.  Moving
up or down is just as easy.  You merely press the UP or DOWN cursor keys.
You can also move over a whole 8 tracks by pressing either the SLASH or
ASTERISK on the keypad.
	In order to change which ORDER you are editing, you can press the
plus and minus symbols on the keypad.  Remember that this indirectly changes
which pattern number you are editing as well.  You may look at the status
on the top right of the editor to see which pattern you actually are editing.

3.2     Entering notes

	Entering notes is a fairly simple procedure.  The computer keyboard
is segmented up into two octaves, each of which is much like a piano 
keyboard.  (see below)

		      C#  D#      F#  G#  A#      C#  D#    
		  ÚÄÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÄ¿ 
		  ³  ³ ³ ³ ³  ³  ³ ³ ³ ³ ³ ³  ³  ³ ³ ³ ³  ³
		  ³  ³2³ ³3³  ³  ³5³ ³6³ ³7³  ³  ³9³ ³0³  ³
		  ³  ÀÂÙ ÀÂÙ  ³  ÀÂÙ ÀÂÙ ÀÂÙ  ³  ÀÂÙ ÀÂÙ  ³
		  ³ Q ³ W ³ E ³ R ³ T ³ Y ³ U ³ I ³ O ³ P ³
		  ÀÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÙ
		    C   D   E   F   G   A   B   C   D   E   

		      C#  D#      F#  G#  A#      C#  D#    
		  ÚÄÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÂÄÄ¿ 
		  ³  ³ ³ ³ ³  ³  ³ ³ ³ ³ ³ ³  ³  ³ ³ ³ ³  ³
		  ³  ³S³ ³D³  ³  ³G³ ³H³ ³J³  ³  ³L³ ³;³  ³
		  ³  ÀÂÙ ÀÂÙ  ³  ÀÂÙ ÀÂÙ ÀÂÙ  ³  ÀÂÙ ÀÂÙ  ³
		  ³ Z ³ X ³ C ³ V ³ B ³ N ³ M ³ < ³ > ³ / ³
		  ÀÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÙ
		    C   D   E   F   G   A   B   C   D   E   


	You merely type the key which corresponds to the piano key you
wish to hit, and *poof*, that note is entered at the current cursor
position.  The space bar will erase the current note.  If you have previously 
loaded some samples, you can listen to what you are playing as you go along 
by choosing which sample you wish to edit with.  (You really HAVE to do this, 
since otherwise you will have no idea how the final output will sound :)  
We'll get to loading samples later, however you should know how to choose 
which one you are editing with:
	You may either hit the left bracket ([) or the right bracket (]) to 
decrement or increment the sample number you are editing with.  If you are
used to Triton's Fasttracker, you can use SHIFT-UP/DOWN instead.  Also, a nice 
key to remember, although not necessary, is the backwards apostrophe `.
(on the tilda key, right above TAB)  This key will pickup the
current editing sample from the note which you are on.  This is very 
convenient, since you don't have to look up the sample number in the sample
menu, you can just press ' on the note whose sample you want to use.
	There are octaves numbered zero through four fully available to you,
and a couple of notes of octave five as well.  Obviously, the two octaves
on the keyboard are not enough to utilize the total range of this tracker.
Therefore, you must change the editing octave using the equals and backslash
key.  Equals decreases the octave and backslash increases it.  The current
editing octave is displayed on the top right of the screen.


3.3     Entering instrument numbers

	You may enter instrument numbers by themselves as well as whole notes.
Sometimes you may want to change the instrument number of a note without 
having to reenter the entire note.  This is accomplished by merely moving
over to the instrument number of the note using the cursor keys, and entering 
the instrument number with which you wish to replace it.  This number CAN be
zero if, for instance, you want to do a Portamento-to-Note effect without 
restarting the currently playing sample.


3.4     Entering effects

	Effects are quite easy to enter.  You merely move over to the effect
field and type the effect number which you want.  You do not have to enter
the entire effect.  You may type only 1 or 2 hex digits and it will not change
the existing 2nd or 3rd digit.


3.5     Playing your music

	Once you have entered a few notes, you may want to play back your
musical piece.  The functions keys numbered five through eight do this in
various ways.  F5 will start the module playing from the very beginning.
F6 will loop the current order, and F7 will play from the current note.
F8 stops the music.  You may even edit WHILE the music is playing, so if you
want to try to keep ahead while making changes, you may.
	There are currently four sets of play functions, the first of which 
you have just read about.  The second set will play only the track which you
are currently positioned on.  You enable this type of playback by pressing
the SHIFT key in conjunction with any of the aforementioned function keys. 
	The third set of functions is a very powerful one.  It enables you to
watch your music scroll by as it plays.  This is called 'tracking' and is
very useful for finding that one wrong note that always pops up.  To use this 
set of playback commands, you press the ALT key in conjunction with any of
the other playback keys.
	The fourth set is merely a combination of the second and third sets.
By pressing CTRL, you can play just the current track and also track through
your piece.  This is really quite helpful sometimes.

*NOTE* You CAN enter notes and toggle tracks on/off while you are tracking
       with CTRL or ALT.  However, don't expect entered notes to play.  I
       may include this 'realtime record' function in the next version of 
       The MultiTracker Module Editor.


3.6     Copying functions        
	
	For convenience sake, there are many note copying and editing 
functions available to you in the main editor.  The most basic of these are
INSERT and DELETE, which rather obviously either insert or delete a note at
the current cursor position.  You can also copy the current note/effect to
the next line at the same time as moving down one note by pressing the 
single quotation mark (') on the note you wish to re-copy.  A few 
slightly more complicated functions involve marking parts of the tracks and 
either altering these parts or copying these parts to other places in the 
music.
	In order to mark a piece of a track, you may either press ALT-B to
place the beginning marker and then ALT-E to place the end marker, or ALT-L
to mark the entire track.  There are many ways in which you can alter this
block of notes.  First of all, you can set every instrument number to the
current editing instrument.  You do this by pressing ALT-I.
	Second of all, you can transpose the notes in the section either by
an octave or by the half-note.  This is accomplished by either pressing
ALT-S/ALT-W to decrement/increment the notes by a half-step, or by pressing
ALT-A/ALT-Q to decrement/increment the notes by one full octave.
	Thirdly, you can erase every note in the block by pressing ALT-Z.

*NOTE* All of these block-functions affect only the current editing track.

	The copying functions are also quite useful.  The first of these 
copies the highlighted block onto the 'clipboard' in memory.  This is done
by pressing ALT-C.  You can then overwrite another portion of any track with
this clipboard data by pressing ALT-O at the appropriate track and note 
position.  If you have a larger clipboard than the remainder of the track
which you want to copy over, then the data will merely be truncated at the
end of the track.
	Another copying function is enabled by pressing ALT-M.  This will
copy the current pattern to another pattern.  This is useful since you will
often need to make the next pattern in the sequence very similar to the last,
merely containing a few variations to the melody and maybe some transposition.


3.7     Turning tracks on/off

	You may, from time to time, need to turn some tracks off and others
on.  This is very easy to do; you merely move to the track which you wish to
toggle off/on and press the BACKSPACE key on your keyboard.  Upon boot-up, the
editor normally is set to only four tracks.  However, you can obviously add
more or take some away by pressing BACKSPACE on the appropriate track.




















Section IV - Using the Sample Menu
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4.1     Loading a sample/patch

	Loading a sample is a fairly painless process.  All you have to do is
to hit the space bar.  Once you have done this, a listing of files in your
sample directory (which you should have specified while running the included
setup program) will be displayed on the screen, with one highlighted.  You
may move around using the cursor keys and PAGE-UP/PAGE-DOWN and then choose
the sample you wish to load by pressing ENTER on it.  If you decide that you
would rather not load a sample, you may press escape at any time to return
to the Sample Menu.
	Several different types of sample files can be accurately loaded from
the Sample Menu.  You can load .RAW, .SAM files and any compatible file types.
You may also load the General Midi Patches which come with the Gravis
Ultrasound(tm) card.  These patches are usually located in your ULTRASND
directory.  Each patch can be made up of several different samples, 
so you may be prompted as to which sample you would like to load into memory.
Note that even if you own a SoundBlaster(tm) card, you may load Gravis format
patches if you have them.
	Once you have a sample loaded, you may play it at any note by first
moving over to the field with its name and then pressing the corresponding
key.  If you wish to change octaves, you may do that from the Sample Menu the
same way in which you do it from the main editor.  (equals/backslash)
	
	*NOTE* I you want to change the sample directory, just press F10.
	       Then, enter the new directory without a final backslash.

	*NOTE* GUS patch loading is left out of the unregistered version of
	       the editor.

4.2     Setting the loop points and standard volume

	If you wish to set the loop points of the sample, just move over to
the desired field and type in the new loop position, ending with an ENTER.  
The same goes for the standard volume field.


4.3     Entering a sample name     

	When you load a sample, the sample name is automatically changed to
the sample's filename.  You may, however, change this by pressing ENTER on
the sample name field and then typing the new name.  Like nearly any other
input field in the editor, you can press escape if you decide against it half
way through.

4.4     Inserting and deleting samples

	You may insert an empty sample anywhere in the list of samples by
pressing the INSERT KEY.   This moves all proceding samples up one space and
clears the current sample.  If sample number 31 is being used, this command
will NOT work.  The reason it will not work is for safety purposes; you
probably would not want the last sample being deleted just because you had to
insert an empty one.
	You can also delete samples, thereby freeing the memory which they
take up.  This is accomplished by moving to the sample number which you wish
to delete and pressing the DELETE key.  Doing this will also move all of the
proceding samples back one sample number.

4.5     Toggling signed/unsigned data

	The MOD format originated on the AMIGA.  Unfortunately, the AMIGA and
PC use fundamentally different sample file formats.  When loading a sample,
the editor tries to figure out which of these formats you are using.  The
way it does this is if the sample filename extension is .SAM it will load the
sample like an AMIGA sample.  Anything else is loaded in the PC format.
	Every once in a while, you may load a sample which sounds 
horrendously noisy.  This is most likely due to the editor not knowing that
it should convert the sample.  There is no way around this, since AMIGA and
PC sample files do not look any different to your computer.  However, if this
occurs you may press ALT-T, and the computer will internally convert the 
format.

4.6     Saving a sample

	In order to save a sample, you must position the cursor over that
sample number and press ALT-S.  The program will then prompt you for a
filename.  The filename will have already been created from the first 8 
letters of the sample name.  However, you may change this to any valid name.
MultiTracker saves in the .RAW format (or equivalent), so remember that you
should probably use that extension when saving.







 













Section V - Using the Sequencer (order editor)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5.1     Creating a pattern

	To create a pattern, just press C in the sequencer.  This will create
a new pattern and also tack a new sequence on to the end of the order,
setting it to the new pattern.


5.2     Inserting and deleting orders

	You can insert or delete orders at any point by pressing the INSERT or
DELETE keys on any order number.  The new order will be set to pattern number
zero.




















Section VI - Miscellaneous
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6.1     Song name

	Every module has a song name.  You can edit this name by pressing
ALT-F4 from the main editor.  CTRL-F4 will clear the songname.


6.2     Song Message

	Every song has a special song message included with it.  You can view
or edit this message with the key combination ALT-F9.  Once the message
pops up in a window on top of the editor screen, you can either move up or
down with the cursor keys, or edit the line you are on by pressing ENTER.


6.3     Palette editing (registered version only)

	If you have registered your copy of the editor, you can edit the
palette configuration.  This is done by pressing ALT-F10.  Once in the
palette editing window, you can choose between preset palettes or else edit
each color individually.  When you are done, hit escape or else go to the
DONE message and hit ENTER.  You can then save your current palette 
configuration to disk with ALT-F11.  This new palette will then be used every
time you run the editor program.


6.4     Pan Positions

	Every track has an intrinsic configurable panning position.  Pressing
CTRL-F9 will let you see a list of track numbers and their respective pan 
positions.  You can then change a specific pan position with the left and
right keys, or move to a different track with UP and DOWN.  When you are done,
you may hit ESCAPE to exit.


6.5     Loading and saving files

	You can load modules with the extensions MOD, 669, FAR and MTM.  
Merely press F11 anywhere in the editor to bring up a list of files, just like 
the list for loading samples.  If you wish to change the module directory, you
can press F9 at the main editor.
	Saving your modules is a little different.  You must first press
ALT-F12 to change the song filename.  This filename should have the file
extension .MTM if you wish to load it again with this program.  Then, you can
press F12 to save the module.  If a module of the same name already exists,
the editor will prompt you as to whether you really want to save over it.
	Additionally, the editor will often prompt you as to whether or not
you would like to erase the unused patterns in your module.  What this means
is that you have created some patterns in the song which are not included in
the order.  These patterns (they are usually either unfinished patterns or
ones which you decided did not fit into the song very well) take up extra
memory in the saved MTM file.  It is usually a good idea to get rid of them.
The only side-effect of doing this is that it changes the numbering of your
patterns, so you may not want to answer 'yes' until you have totally finished
writing your module.


6.6     Clearing large amounts of data

	Obviously, you will sometimes need to start from scratch.  You can
wipe everything by pressing ALT-F8.  Don't worry, it will ask if you really
want to before erasing your whole module!  Alternatively, you can erase only
some of the module by pressing ALT-F1, ALT-F2, or ALT-F3 .  These will wipe
all of the instruments, a whole pattern, or the entire order, respectively.


6.7     Memory Indicators

	Unfortunately, modules eat up computer memory.  A module can only be
as large as the amount of free memory on your computer.  For this reason,
there is a memory indicator labelled "Free memory:".  If you have a 
SoundBlaster(tm) compatible card, this is the amount of memory free on your
computer; this memory must be used to store both pattern data and sample data.
(sample data is nearly always the biggest thing)  If you have a Gravis
Ultrasound, then the free memory indicator tells how much memory is left on
the GUS.  This memory is used to store sample data only.  You may ask how you
can tell if you are going to run out of pattern data memory- however, pattern
data takes up a very small amount of space, and you should never run into any
problems for lack of that type of RAM.
	As a convenience, I have also included an indication of how large your 
module will be when finally saved to disk.  This is labelled as "Disk memory"
and can be very handy when you are trying to limit the size of your module for
use in a demo, game, or anything else.




















Section VII - Closing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

	Well, I hope that has covered all of the features of this editor.  You
can convert your music files to MOD's using the included MTM to MOD converter.
They should convert perfectly, since the two formats are essentially the same.
However, in the original version of the editor this program did not really
work at all.  It has since been fixed totally, at least to my knowledge.
If you wish to contact me, you can call The Sound Barrier (Renaissance HQ) at
either (718)979-6629 ot (718)979-9406 and leave mail to Daniel Goldstein.  You
can also contact me by name over the SBCNet.  Additionally, you can send real
mail to my PO Box if you can't swing the long distance bill, but don't expect
me to necessarily reply; I can't deal with a large amount of reply mail due
to the postage costs.
	Although we at Renaissance feel that the MultiTracker Module Editor is
one of the best trackers around, we also believe in new releases.  From time
to time, I will be releasing new versions of the editor (all compatible with
the original registration keys) with many new features.  Some of these planned
features include:

	ú Speed Increases in playback routines (especially for the GUS)
	ú More loaders for different music formats (ULT,S3M,OKT,etc.)
	ú MIDI support
	ú 16-bit samples usable by the GUS and compatible with the SB/SBPro
	ú Greater thatn 64k samples for the SB/SBPro
	ú SBPro panning
	ú SB/SBPro Interpolation
	ú Many more that I can't remember right now!

	Many of these features have been at least partially completed, so
they will probably all be in future versions.  I guess that's about it, so
have fun!

					Daniel Goldstein
					a.k.a. StarScream/Ren'93




















Section VIII - Reference
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

8.1 LISTING OF KEYS

General
-------
F1      Change to sample menu
F2      Change to main editor
F3      Change to order menu

F5      Play Song
F6      Loop from current order
F7      Play Song from current note
F8      Stop Playback

ALT-F5  Track Song
ALT-F6  Looping track Song from current order
ALT-F7  Track Song from current note

SHFT-F5 Play Song (editing voice only)
SHFT-F6 Loop from current order (editing voice only)
SHFT-F7 Play Song from current note (editing voice only)

CTRL-F5 Track Song (editing voice only)
CTRL-F6 Looping track from current order (editing voice only)
CTRL-F7 Track Song from current note (editing voice only)

ALT-F1  Clear all samples
ALT-F2  Clear whole pattern
ALT-F3  Clear whole order
ALT-F4  Edit song name
CTRL-F4 Clear song name
ALT-F8  Clear whole song
ALT-F9  Edit song message
CTRL-F9 Edit pan positions
ALT-F10 Edit palette (registered version only)
ALT-F11 Save palette (registered version only)

F9      Change song directory
F10     Change sample directory
F11     Load song
F12     Save current song
ALT-F12 Change song filename

ALT-X   Exit editor


Main Editor
-----------
=       Minus one octave
\       Plus one octave

[       Decrement editing sample
]       Increment editing sample
SHFT-UP Decrement editing sample
SHFT-DN Increment editing sample

-       Minus one order
+       Plus one order

BKSPACE Toggle voice ON/OFF

'       Copy last NOTE/EFFECT and move down one note
	    
`(tilda)Pick-up current sample number

ALT-B   Mark beginning of block
ALT-E   Mark end of block
ALT-L   Mark whole track
ALT-C   Copy marked area to clipboard (current track only)
ALT-O   Overwrite current track from cursor position with clipboard
ALT-Q/A Increment/Decrement the octave of all marked notes in current track
ALT-W/S Increment/Decrement all marked notes in current track by one half-step
ALT-I   Set the instrument numbers of all marked notes in this track to the
	current editing instrument
ALT-Z   Clear marked area in this track

ALT-M   Copy current pattern to another

LEFT    Move cursor left one section of a note
RIGHT   Move cursor right one section of a note
UP      Move cursor up one note
DOWN    Move cursor down one note
PAGE-UP Move cursor up 16 notes
PAGE-DN Move cursor down 16 notes
CTRL-LT Move cursor left one voice
CTRL-RT Move cursor right one voice
KEYPD-/ Move left eight voices
KEYPD-* Move right eight voices
SHFT-TB Move cursor left one voice
TAB     Move cursor right one voice
HOME    Go to beginning of current track
END     Go to end of current track

'?'     Bring up a help screen listing these commands
ALT-'/' Bring up a list of the Protracker effects

ALT-X   Exit from editor


Sample Menu
-----------
SPACE   Load sample/GUS patch (patch loader only available in registered copy)
ALT-S   Save sample

ENTER   Edit sample name

INSERT  Insert a blank sample at cursor position
DELETE  Free current sample and move all samples ahead back one space

ALT-T   Toggle signed/unsigned sample data

LEFT    Move cursor left one section
RIGHT   Move cursor right one section
UP      Move cursor up one sample number
DOWN    Move cursor down one sample number

'?'     Bring up a help screen listing these commands


Order Menu
----------
INSERT  Insert an order here
DELETE  Delete this order
'C'     Create a new pattern and append it onto the song as the last order

UP      Move back one order
DOWN    Move forwards one order

'?'     Bring up a help screen listing these commands







8.2 PROTRACKER EFFECTS

*NOTE*  In cooperation with the new pan position setting effect supported by
	the group Pentagon in their ZZPLAY GUS tracker, we have included the
	non-standard protracker extra effect E8 - set pan position.  This is
	not a true Protracker effect.  However, we hope that it will adopted
	into the next version of the Protracker format.

0xy     Arpeggiation/No effect

	If xy=00 then this command means that there is no effect.
	Otherwise, this makes the current note quickly switch between three
	different pitches- the normal pitch of the note, the normal pitch
	plus x halfsteps, and the normal pitch plus y halfsteps.

1xx     Portamento Up

	This slides the pitch of the current note upwards for the length of 
	the pattern row at speed xx.  Do not use this command to slide TO a 
	note...  If you need to do that, use command 3.

2xx     Portamento Down

	This slides the pitch of the current note downwards for the length of 
	the pattern row at speed xx.  Do not use this command to slide TO a 
	note...  If you need to do that, use command 3.

3xx     Portamento to Note

	This effect slides the pitch of the currently playing note towards 
	the pitch of the note field associated with this effect.  It slides
	at speed xx, much like effects 1 and 2.  If xx=00, the pitch will 
	continue to slide at the last slide speed used.  Once either it hits 
	the desired pitch or the current pattern row is over, the sliding will 
	stop.  
	
4xy     Vibrato

	Does a vibrato effect on the currently playing note.  It wavers the
	pitch of the currently playing note at speed x and depth y.  If
	xy=00 then the currently playing note will vibrate at the last
	specified speed and depth.

5x0/50y Continue Portamento-to-Note while executing a Volume-Slide

	Continues the last Portamento-To-Note command (as if there was an
	effect 300 here) while also sliding the volume.  Either x OR y should 
	be specified- not both.  If y=0 then the volume of the currently 
	playing note will be slid upwards at speed x.  Conversely, if x=0
	then the volume will be slid downwards at speed y.

6x0/60y Continues Vibrato while executing a Volume-Slide

	Continues the last Vibrato command (as if there was an
	effect 400 here) while also sliding the volume.  Either x OR y should 
	be specified- not both.  If y=0 then the volume of the currently 
	playing note will be slid upwards at speed x.  Conversely, if x=0
	then the volume will be slid downwards at speed y.

7xy     Tremolo (volume vibrato)

	Same as effect 4, but it vibrates the volume, rather than the pitch,
	of the currently playing note.

8??     Currently unused


9xx     Set Sample Offset

	Starts the current note playing from xx * 256 bytes into the sample.

Ax0/A0y Volume Slide

	Slides the volume of the currently playing note.  Either x OR y should 
	be specified- not both.  If y=0 then the volume of the currently 
	playing note will be slid upwards at speed x.  Conversely, if x=0
	then the volume will be slid downwards at speed y.

Bxx     Position Jump

	Jumps to order number xx.

Cxx     Set Volume

	Sets the volume of the currently playing sample to xx.  xx must be
	from 0 to 40 hex.  Any volume over 40 hex will be truncated to
	the maximum allowable volume. (40 hex, of course :)

Dxx     Pattern Break

	Jumps to the next order, note number xx.

Exy     Miscellaneous Effects

	The E effect is actually many effects, all with only one argument: y.
	The miscellaneous effect number is specified by x.  These effects
	are listed below...
	
	x       Description
	Ä       ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
	0       Unused
	1       Fine Portamento Up
		y=slide speed
	2       Fine Portamento Down
		y=slide speed
	3       UNSUPPORTED
	4       Unused
	5       Set Finetune
		y=finetune value   y<7:positive 7<y<=F:negative
		I have purposely NOT let you change the finetuning of
		the various samples in the sample menu due to the evil
		Amiga nature of this effect.  The editor is still
		compatible with this, so that it will be able to play
		older mods.  However, I strongly urge you not to
		use it.  If you need to finetune a sample, use a sample 
		editor.
	6       UNSUPPORTED
	7       Unused
	8       Set Pan Position   left 0-F right    center=7
	9       Retrigger Note
		Restarts note at 'tick' number y.  Ticks are 50ths of a sec.
	A       Fine Volume Slide Up
		Adds y to the current note's volume
	B       Fine Volume Slide Down
		Subtracts y from the current note's volume
	C       Cut note
		Cuts off note at 'tick' number y.  Ticks are 50ths of a sec.
	D       Note Delay
		Waits until 'tick' number y to play the current note.  Ticks
		are 50ths of a second.
	E       Pattern Delay
		Delays playback of pattern for y notes.
	F       Unused

Fxx     Set Tempo

	Sets the playback speed of the current song.  If xx<20 hex then xx
	specifies the number of 'ticks' per note.  One tick=one 50th of a
	second.  If xx>19 hex then xx is the number of 'beats' played per 
	minute.  One 'beat' consists of four notes.
