STRANGE ODYSSEY
---------------

Good old outer space! There's nothing else quite like it! This time around,
you're on a strange planet, with no fuel and no apparent way to get back to
the mother ship. However, appearances can be deceiving!

From the control room, go down and get the space suit, phaser and shovel. Set
the phaser to destroy, then go back up to the control room. Push the red
button, which opens the inner airlock door, then go out the door. Wear the
suit, then push the red button in the airlock. The outer door will now open.
Go out the door, and jump. Don't worry, you'll land safely!

Go North twice, which will bring you to a cave. Enter the cave, where you find
a large boulder with strange writing on it. There is no way of finding out
what it says, and you have other things to do, anyway. So, shoot the boulder,
which will reveal a shimmering curtain of light (shades of Zork II!).

Go curtain, and you will be in a strange hexagonal room with some odd
machinery inside. The first thing to do is remove the suit. This will help to
conserve the oxygen in the suit for when you really need it. The air in this
room is quite breathable. Now drop the phaser, because you won't be using it
for awhile.

Most of the rest of the game centers on the machine. It is a portal to other
worlds (or dimensions). The basic operation is to pull the rod, then push it,
which will cause the plastic panel to glow. Touching the panel, then walking
through the curtain, takes you to some other world. Which one depends on how
many times you make the panel glow.

Now that you know that, pull and push the rod until the panel glows 6 times.
Touch the plastic (becoming momentarily disoriented, which happens whenever
you do this), then wear the spacesuit and go through the curtain. You are now
in an alien museum of some sort.

Once in the museum, pick up the painting and the sculpture, and return through
the curtain. Remove the suit, then wear the goggles and look at the painting.
Now drop the painting and the goggles, and get the belt from the statue. Push
and pull the rod again. This time, the plastic should glow seven times. Touch
the plastic. Wear the belt, and now drop everything but the belt and the suit.
Twist the buckle (aha! anti-gravity!), wear the space suit, and go through the
curtain again. This time, you have been transported to a deserted Jovian
mining  the colony, pick up the remaining item, and once more walk through the
curtain to the Hex room. Remove the suit, then twist the buckle and drop the
belt. Also drop whatever it was you just brought back from the colony. Now
pick up the shovel and the phaser. Make sure the phaser is set to stun.

Now things get a tiny bit tricky, because you have to "reset" the machine.
Pull the rod, then touch the plastic, then push the rod. The panel glows once.
Now, pull the rod, and push the rod. The panel glows twice. Touch the panel,
then go through the curtain. You are standing at the edge of a jungle.

This is an Earth-like area, so you don't need to wear the suit. Dig right
where you are standing, and you will find an ice pick, of all things! Get that
and drop the shovel. Go jungle, and from there go East into the ruins of a
zoo. Shoot the ice-hound that's there, then pick him up. Go South into the
jungle, then West to the curtain, and through it back to the room.

Returning to the room, pull and push the rod. The panel should glow three
times. Touch the panel, wear the suit, and go through the curtain. This time,
you are in the middle of a methane snowstorm. Drop the hound, then wake him
up. He will burrow off out of sight, but don't worry! Just go west, and you
will come to a large ice mound.

Aha! Now you know what the pick is for! Pick mound (really!), which will bring
you inside to where the hound is, as well as a treasure. Shoot phaser. Pick up
all 5 treasures. Pull the rod, touch the plastic, push the rod, and touch the
plastic again. Wear the suit and go through the curtain. Now you are back in
the cave.

Go up, then go West and enter the ship. Push the red button, then remove the
suit. Drop all the treasures here, then wear the suit and push the button
again. There are still a couple of things you need yet, so make your way back
to the Hexagonal room. Once there, get the metal, and then (alas!) break the
rod, for that will be your power supply. Now return to the ship.

Once inside, remove the suit. Go to the control room, and then down to where
the maintenance hatch is. Open the hatch (the metal helps!), then go hatch to
where the power supply is. Put rod, then return to the control room.

Drop the hatch and the metal, then push the blue button. When the ship stops,
go to the airlock, pick up all the treasures, wear the suit, then push the red
button. Go out to the hold of the mother ship, and drop your treasures. When
they've all been dropped, say "Score". How about that! You won the game!!
Well, after all this, you need to relax a little. How about a trip through the
Fun House...
