--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
		INTERVIEW WITH A.N.O.I.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


IR>   Can you give me some introduction what A.N.O.I. really is ?


ANOI> Mainly a virus group, but the last year we have done a lot of board
      hacking/crashing etc. Ask Coq Rouge.


IR>   Why did you choose the group-name A.N.O.I. ?


ANOI> It comes from the movie The Terminator. Sgt.Reese says 
      "They said they got smart. A New Order of Intelligence"
      referring to the SkyNet computers.


IR>   Which members do A.N.O.I. got now ?


ANOI> Jaywalker, Macaroni Ted and Annihilator.

IR>   When did you formed your first virus group and why ?

ANOI> The BetaBoys was formed in 1990. It was intended to be a demo group,
      but that wasn't any fun, so we decided to scare the shit out of lame
      windows users and such. People are REALLY scared of virii, since they
      don't understand them.

      Macaroni Ted got in touch with Firefly, a guy running a h/p/v board in
      Finland. He got the position as CoSysop and we got our first source 
      codes from him. Jaywalker got in touch with Le'clerk, a TRIAD-PC 
      member, who was running a virus section on his elite board. And 
      through him got access to Morbid Angel's Swedish Virus eXchange. We
      released some non-resident crappy virii and read a bunch of 40Hex 
      mags and NukE Info journals. Then Macaroni Ted released our first
      resident virus, Death Rattle, and Tormentor of Demoralized Youth saw
      it and contacted Jaywalker at Out of Bounds, pleased to see that 
      there was someone else coding in Sweden (not counting Line Noise,
      if you can call them coders).

      We got access to his board, Swedish Virus Laboratories and the ball
      was rolling. Suddenly Firefly contacted Macaroni Ted, saying we were
      in todays Helsinki Sanomaa. That felt REAL good.

      We learned that we were the most feared virus makers in Finland at
      that time, proving that Firefly had done a great job spreading our
      creations (we even made him a spread-program to infect WaReZ more
      easily). We happily told Tormentor about it and he told us we were
      in "G”terborgs Posten" aswell. Those guys even knew where we lived.
      The only reason they couldn't bust us was that we were "hiding behind
      our handles", so they couldn't prove who we were. The group changed
      name to F.P.C.P, The Funky Pack of CyberPunks, to confuse the anti-
      virus people as much as possible. Our handles were also changed. Now
      virus boards started to pop up everywhere. Every elite d00d who had
      a board wanted to have a virus section.

      Now even Mikael Winterquist took notice, and started his crusade
      against the evil virus spreaders.

      He used the handle Esmond, and said he was calling from Rimini,
      Italy. The funny thing was that everyone bought it. Soon enough
      he published a "black list" containing real names of the worst
      virus spreaders in Sweden, including Jaywalker and Out of Bounds.
      Obviously Jaywalker got the willies, and closed his board. Swedish
      Virus Labs was up for a while, but Tormentor had to finish his
      studies, and had no more time for virii. Things got rather slow,
      and F.P.C.P faded away.

      A.N.O.I. was formed in december of 1992, we were interviewed by a
      dude working for Aktuell Rapport (hahaha, next time in Vanity Fair,
      featuring an exclusive mega-poster with Macaroni Ted in the nude).


IR>   What's the members posision in A.N.O.I. ?


ANOI> You could say Jaywalker and Macaroni Ted formed the group. Jaywalker
      came up with the name. He is also pretty much in charge of board 
      hacking and organising/public relations, not that we are organised
      in any way, but still.

      Macaroni Ted is the main assembly coder, the one coding most of the
      virii. He has also made some resident backdoors for most of the BBS
      programs available today, SBBS, RA, PcExpress, EzyCom etc.

      Annihilator is somewhat of a perfectionist, that's why he hasn't
      released to many viruses, they are almost perfect but annihilator is
      always going for that 100% pure perfection. He comes up with a lot
      of great ideas, but he often lets Jaywalker or Macaroni Ted turn
      them into code.

IR>   Has it always been the members you're right now, and have you
      any plans of getting in more members in A.N.O.I. ?


ANOI> Well, Firefly isn't a member anymore, we haven't heard of him for
      years. He could be in jail, since he was pretty illegal in all
      sorts of ways. Jaywalker, Macaroni Ted and Annihilator have been
      members since the	days of the BetaBoys. 

IR>   What does it takes for being a member in A.N.O.I ?

ANOI> Impress us.

IR>   How is the best way to contact A.N.O.I. ?


ANOI> Call your favourite board and list users with the search keyword
      "A.N.O.I.", you might find someone to leave mail to. Or you can
      write some mail to the Sysop, we'll probably read it...


IR>   What products have A.N.O.I. releasesed as 'A.N.O.I.', and what
      have you releases before in some other group, or as free coders?


ANOI> Memorial, Severe Head-Ache series, Data Molester, Mexican Mud,
      Anti-Windows, and Death Rattle were released under The BetaBoys.

    Dismember was released under F.P.C.P (we were going through a bad
    patch).

      and under A.N.O.I. - Z-NoteTaker Source in BASIC, CyberCide 1.00,
      and most recently, My Little Pony - VERY public release. Also coming
      up is Atrocity.


IR>   About CyberCide 1.00, can you describe how its code works?


ANOI> When resident, CYBERCIDE will infect all .com files being touched
      with function 4eh/4fh, thus infecting all .com files in a "dir-
      listing". Filesize increase will not be noticed while resident.
      If a file is opened, CYBERCIDE will uninfect that file, thus making
      it harder to detect. On any day at 24:??, the Imperial March from
      "The Empire Strikes Back" will be played and a message will be
      displayed. after four o'clock on Saturdays, the Swedish flag will
      be displayed in the DOS background. If alt-ctrl-del is pressed,
      the letters A, N, O and I will be displayed in the four corners
      of the screen. If the letters A,N,O and I is intercepted in the
      keyboard-buffer, CYBERCIDE will simply add "iS AROUND". Every new
      hour, one random sector on each harddrive will be overwritten.


IR>   Why are you releasing stuff ?


ANOI> To scare the shit outta lame-ass PD-people, and of course dA eLiTe
      d00dz. People are getting stuck with Windows and know nothing about
      what's behind those fancy icons and shit. They are a favourite 
      target. If people are scared of you, they respect you. And it's fun
      to find weaknesses in different BBS systems and of course	in the
      operating	system itself.


IR>   Have you ever felt guilty for one of your viruses hitting
      some place, for example a hospital ? 


ANOI> No, that would just make us hit the frontpage of Expressen,
      and would be great for our massive egos.


IR>   Do you often use your own products for destructive purposes
      like crash boards which is  nnoying'you :)?


ANOI> Well, we often tailor-make a trojan for the targeted board, or use an
      old one if possible. Viruses are pretty worthless against boards if
      you want quick results, so we never use them in that way. You can of
      course infect files you know users will download for spreading
      reasons, but never just to kill a board. We were just about to
      starting using that "QUMECYKELPUMPMEDSKOR" backdoor in PcExpress
      that Annihilator found, when some silly norweigen twit spread some
      textfile about it. But then again, there were more backdoors in 1.0..

IR>   So..which boards, and why ?


ANOI> We gave The Untouchable some major problems some months ago. That
      was because of his lame style.

      We gave Garden of Eden some minor problems some months ago too. That
      was because of their lame attitudes. (did you know that Irony uses
      GIF2ANSI?) If anyone is interested, we've got all of ZoRaX (dEwD
      hAnDlE!) and iRONY's Pascal and BASIC sourcecodes.

      We also grabbed some userlists from boards like Antarctica,
      Final Phase, and of course a lot of PD boards.

      You can order a kill from us, if you have a competitor to get
      rid off or something.


IR>   What's A.N.O.I.'s oppinion of taking down pd boards and elite bbs's?


ANOI> Great fun. If you don't like them, crash them.
      The big fun is when they blame it on running a cracked software.


IR>   What do you think about A.N.O.I. comparing to the other famoust
      virus groups around the globe ? Groups like Skism, NUKE, RABID
      YAM, DY etc..?


ANOI> We really don't care. We just do it for fun, not to be the best.

      - Skism is ok. Not that good, not that bad.
 
      - We don't consider YAM as competition.

      - Data Disruptor and the RABID guys were gods to us in the early
        stages, but most of them were really pretty lame.

      - NuKE were lame in the beginning but rather outstanding in the
        end, releasing VCL and all.

      - Demoralized Youth had two good coders, Tormentor and Dreamer.


IR>   Which group do you think rules over the globe, and why ?


ANOI> Well, we don't know really. Sure as hell isn't YAM. Maybe
      Damage,Inc.


IR>   What's your oppinion about 'rag-wars', example the one going
      on between NUKE/RABID for some years ago ?


ANOI> Well, that was just Data Disruptor acting lame. Rag wars can be
      great fun, if you are on the winning side, that is.


IR>   Which virus group/coders are you looking up too ? and why ?


ANOI> The authors of 4096, Dir-2, Cascade, Stoned and of course DAv.
      4096 and Dir-2 are ART. Cascade and Stoned were so spread, that
      they still cause new infections. DAv wrote the MtE and is a true
      legend.


IR>   Who do you think is the perfect virus coder ?


ANOI> A little skinny dude sitting in a basement. No detection,
      no removal.

IR>   How would you descripe the perfect virus ? 


ANOI> Complete stealth. No detection, no removal.


IR>   Which country is the most talent in virus coding ?


ANOI> Bulgaria. A lot of serious programmers were writing virii, 
      just because they	were unemployed.


IR>   What is your oppinion about Anti-Virus Asses, like
      our own 'Mikael Larsson', and well, the bigger ones
      too, like John McAfee and Dr Alan Salomon ?


ANOI> They are fakes. They just make a lot of money on scared users.
      They are not willing to really deal with the virus threat, since
      that would mean that they would lose their jobs.


IR>   Have you ever considered taking down Virus Help Centre ?
      Or Computer Security Center located here in Sweden ?


ANOI> It wouldn't be possible. At least not right now, since they are
      protected with Thunderbyte hardware. But you can always do it the
      'physical' way, with a sledgehammer, we have considered that many
      times.


IR>   What's your oppioion about all Niggers located in Sweden ?
      ..and what do you want to do about it ?


ANOI> Too many, way too many. Throw them off the ™resunds bridge on
      the 6th of June.


IR>   And to last..someone you wanna send some Greetings /
      Disgreetings to ?


ANOI> In no special order.. (chaos rules).

      Tormentor, Dreamer, Morbid Angel, Le'clerk, Wiper,
      Firefly, Snake man, Coq Rouge, Irony & ZoRaX, Aeon,
      Hardware, Ford Fairlane, NukE, Skism.
     
      And our future victims, going down this year ...


		= THE UNFORGIVEN & METAL MILITIA =