컴컴컴컴켐袴袴袴袴>>> Article From Evolution #2 - YAM '92

Article Title: Mindless Virus .NFO file
Author: Natas Kaupas

                     The Mindless Virus v1.0
               [YAM] - Youngsters Against McAffee
               컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

Title:     The Mindless Virus v1.0
Type:      Virus
Author:    Natas Kaupas
Language:  Turbo Assembler v1.0

Notes:
컴컴컴
        I finally got around to making another virus!  Now that YAM has
gone from a strictly 416 area code group to a group that can distribute
their releases further (heh, don't want to set any restrictions...).
  
        This virus is an *.c* file overwriter.  It overwrites the first
429 bytes of any file with the *.c* (*.com, being the important one).
If a file with the extension .c* is not an actual .com file then it
will be overwritten as well, this could possibly cause data/file
corruption.

*Thanks go out to Soltan Griss [YAM] for this part...watch out for his
next release, it should be great!

        When this virus is first executed it will go through a serious
of debug killers (for more info, see the TPU! trojan series), that are
really there just to try to confuse a wanna be hex-editor.  It then
checks the system date.  If it is a Sunday (of any month, year) it will
proceed to format drives the first 456 sectors of drives C: to Z:.
This format includes a write to sector 0 (which will reduce the chances
greatly of recovering any data).  Before writing this text to sector 0,
the virus will decrypt the text (which is encrypted). The decrypted code
is as follows:

  "[Youngsters Against McAffee] -NATAS KAUPAS"
  "The Mindless Virus v1.0"

*Thanks goes out to Data Disruptor [YAM] for this part.

Following the format, the system date will be set to the year 1980, and
the system time will be set to 0:00:00.00.  The program will then
terminate.

        If the virus is not run on a Sunday, the program will proceed
to changing the floppy drive step rate.  The step rate of the floppy is
the amount of time it takes the to move from one track to another.  The
default for most drives/systems is 9ms, although almost all floppies
can achieve at least a 6ms. This virus changes the step rate to a ms of
approx. 15ms, which could annoy quite a few people that use their
floppies often.

        Then, the virus will change the typematic rate and delay
(amount of time it takes for the letter to appear on the screen after
you type it).  This part of the code will not work on XTs or some cheap
clones.  (It works on mostly everything else though).  It changes the
rates to much slower then they should be, which becomes very annoying,
and is also a good way of knowing if you have been hit by it.  (On an
XT it will just proceed on with the code and the typematic rate will be
undisrupted...sorry!)

  Finally, it's ready to overwrite all *.c* files in the current 
directory.  I felt that having it just write to the current directory
did the trick (and to overwrite all of the *.c* files on a HD may take
a long time... well long enough for someone to reboot).

Technical:
컴컴컴컴컴

File Length:                      433 Bytes
Infected File Min. Length:        429 Bytes
                                  컴컴컴컴
Unaccounted:                        4 Bytes

Encryption:               Basic Level

Total Time To Complete:   Approx. 60 mins.
Total Time To Test:       Approx. 60 mins.

Format Type:              Int 26h - 456 Sectors, C:-Z:
                          (With Sector 0 Write)

Spreads By:               Overwriting, Current Dirrectory 

Changes In System:        Floppy Drive Step Rate
                          Keyboard Typematic Rate & Delay
                          Possible Data Corruption
                          Possible Format
                          Possible Date/Time Reset (After Format)

Viewable Strings:         *.c*
                          & the encrypted message.

Thanks:
컴컴컴

Soltan Griss      -Kode4 v4.0 sounds great!  Thanks for the code.
Data Disruptor    -You'll know what code I've borrowed...thanks!
Mr. Mike          -Thanks for those extra routines!

Greets:
컴컴컴

All YAM Members & Supporters, McAffee (of course), Fridrik Skulasson
(Fprot), Patti Hoffman (VSUM), SKISM/Phalcon, nataS (Blazing Hell)
(Welcome!), All Supporters of PHAC, All Other Virus/Trojan Writers
Past & Present.

