
旼컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴커
 O윜Spring v0.89 - By Virogen - 10/03/93
읕컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴켸

  Here's yet another release of this never ending virus. I really wanted
 to wait a little longer before I released a new version, but I wanted
 to get a new version out ASAP. v.90 will probably follow soon.

  so.. what the hell did I change in this version?
  well..

    - now infects on int 21h function calls as follows :
        0Eh - Change drive - Infects up to 5 files in the current
              directory, ONLY if a program is not running.
              Kills ANTI-VIR.DAT and CHKLIST.* also.
        3Bh - Change directory - Same as above
        4Bh - Execute - Infects anytime, whether a program is running
              or not, does not delete ANTI-VIR.DAT and CHKLIST.* files.

    - After alot of expiermenting I came up with a few trix (not the ceral)
      to get around TBAV 607 heuristics (which plagued the last version)
      for the most part. A few infected files will get a warning, and the
      others will set off 3 or 4 flags but it's not enough to cause TBAV
      to warn the user.

    - No longer detectable by Fprot Heuristics

    - Mutation engine was improved, although still not completly polymorphic.


  Type : PSRhA  - Parastic & Spawning Resident  - Mutating
  Origin : Virogen's Drunken Programming Inc.
  Length : 1556-1606
  Interrupts Hooked : 20h 21h (24h e.h.) 27h

  Infection Method :  Once memory resident, the virus infects up to five
                     files in the current directory everytime a file
                     is execucted, and when a program is NOT running
                     it will infect on directory changes and disk changes.
                     It will also kill ANTi-VIR.DAT and CHKLIST.* files
                     at the time of infection on the two latter occurances.
                     Anyway, it will first infect EXE files (spawning) in
                     a directory, once all the EXE files have been infected,
                     it moves to COM files (parastic).



                                   Your Faithful Comrad,
                                           Virogen



