
旼컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴커
 OFFSPRING v0.7 - BY Virogen - 05/26/93 
읕컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴켸

    Welcome to my latest viral creation. Don't blame me if you are an
  ignorant fool and infect yourself. Don't blame me if you "accidently"
  infect somebody else. Don't blame me if you rape your little sister.
  In other words, don't blame me for anything, and use this virus at
  your own risk.

    The source is compatible with A86. You'll have to add a few segment
  overrides and such to make it compat. with TASM, MASM, and such. I
  think I sufficiently commented the source code, it should be apparently
  obvious what is going on.


  Type : PSRhA  - Parastic & Spawning Resident  - Encrypting
  Origin : Virogen's virus laboratory

  Infection Method :  Once memory resident, the virus infects up to five
                     files in the current directory everytime you change
                     directories or drives. So, the files in the directory
                     you are coming OUT of will be infected. I decided
                     this would be the best way, maybe it won't be quite
                     as noticable to the victim. Anyway, it will first
                     infect EXE files (spawning) in directory, once all
                     the EXE files have been infected, it moves to COM
                     files (parastic).

   Encryption :  The base of the encryption of this virus is a simple
                 XOR technique. However, the encryption code is switched
                 around, the ops are modified directly, a few variables
                 change sizes, and bytes between unmodified bytes are
                 changed to a chracter from a set of harmless ops. So,
                 the bytes that do remain constant are not adjacent (more
                 than 2 bytes) and change positions. Not anything overly
                 amazing, and the encryption routine always uses the same
                 technique. Maybe I'll improve this in later versions, but
                 I figured this'll do for now.




                                   Your Faithful Comrad,
                                           Virogen



