                   Overwritting Virus Construction Toolkit
                                     v1.0
                     Copyright (c) 1997 by Virtual Daemon
                               SLAM virus group
                             All Rights Reserved


Disclaimer:
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
  The author takes ABSOLUTELY NO RESPONSABILITY for any damages that may
result from the use of this program. USE THIS PROGRAM AT YOUR OWN RISK!
  This program was made for research purpose only. This program shouldn't
be used for making virii and then spreading them.
  The user also accept to take all the responsability when using this program.
The program shouldn't give you any error, but just in case it does, IT'S ONLY
YOUR FAULT!!! So please, use it with care...

Copyright (Legal Stuff):
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
  This program was made by Virtual Daemon, so all the code that is made by
this program is a property of the author. No payments are required for the use
of this program, meaning that the program is freeware. You may distribute this
program  freely, as long as all the files from the distribution archive remain
intact, without any changes or modifications. If you wish to include OVCT in
the distribution of a comercial product or on CD-ROM, you will need a written
permission from me, Virtual Daemon. OVCT may not be sold or licensed, and it
can't be used for any comercial purpose without my permission.
  The use of this code is ONLY for research and learning purposes.
  The viruses generated by OVCT may NOT be used to cause harm to any computer
system.

Description:
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
  Overwritting Virus Construction Toolkit is a virus source generator program
designed for makeing overwritting virii. The program is using a external
configuration file (specified as the 1st parameter) for creating a virus.
  With this program can be created only overwritting virii! Any other users
who don't like makeing overwritting virii, can use Virus Costruction Toolkit
(VCT) made by the same author which will be released very soon.

  OVCT wasn't made for creating tons of overwritting virii by lamers. The
purpose of this program is to help beginner virus writers in better
understanding the code. Every guy who wants to become a virus writter MUST
make at least one overwritting virus. This is the beginning for everyone.
  The code made by OVCT is 100% working comented assembler code. The code
has been tested with TASM 3.2 and TLINK 5.1 from Borland. (P.S. MASM sucks!!!)

Author's notes:
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
  I made this program, because I don't agree with all those virus construction
kits out there, who combine overwritting virii with non-overwritting. My
opinion is that there must be separeted... There must be some good
overwritting construction kits, AND there must be some good non-overwritting
construction kits! That's why I made this shit and now I'm giving it to
you...
  Another thing: most of the construction kits out there DON'T MAKE "GOOD"
CODE!
Many (not all of them) can't make clean ASM code... :-( The sources generated
by them are all fucked up!
  Here's the problem! If we made these programs for beginners then we SHOULD
make them generate good code (that means compile without errors)!

  For any of you guys who are wondering why didn't I made non-overwritting
TSR virii: "TSR OVERWRITTING VIRII SUCKS!". Overwritting virii should be made
only for learning purposes and not for distributing them out!
  A overwritting TSR virus CAN'T EXIST! IT SHOULDN'T EXIST! Imagine how fast
you can destroy data with it! You can do it only if you're a BIG LAMER!!!

  I don't know if OVCT has any bugs. I've tested it on several computers and
it's working! Still, if you find any bugs or you think that I can add/modify
something to OVCT (maybe I'll release release a new version), please send them
to my e-mail adress. Anyway, if this program helps somebody in learning how to 
make virii, please send me an e-mail too. I'd like to know that.

Features:
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
  ¯ overwritting COM infector
  ¯ save/restore file time/date/attributes
  ¯ change current directory (to '..' for more infections)
  ¯ checks for previous infections
  ¯ COMMAND.COM infection
  ¯ INT24h handler
  ¯ Anti-Debugger
  ¯ Encryption (with a little FUCK for Turbo Debugger :^)
  ¯ Anti-Anti-Virus
  ¯ create a .BAT file to compile fast your virus

History Brief:
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
  Version 1.00: First Public Release

How can I contact the author?
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
  E-mail adress: virtual_daemon@hotmail.com
  HTTP: http://www.geocities.com/SiliconValley/Heights/3334

Greetings go out to:
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
- All the SLAM members (especially to Cyborg, Nightmare Joker and Neophyte)
- Cicatrix: I like your VDAT... Keep up the good work! ;-)
- 29A: Guys, you're great!!! :) I love your zine!!! :) Btw: who's GreenLine?
- VBB: Do you have a "membership form"? ;-)
- Phalcon/Skism, NuKE, Trident etc. : Why do you have to leave now, when I'm
  coming in? :-(
- Dark Angel: You were the best, man!
- and to everybody else who is related to virus scene


  See ya'!
