Routine List for Virus Creation Laboratory
------------------------------------------

	This file contains a list of the routines inclueded with V.C.L. as
it is shipped.  Routines under the "Effect Procedures" are possible effects
that your creation might have and are included in VCL.DAT.  Routines listed
under "Condition Functions" are functions that return a value in AX; they
are used to test whether an effect should be called, and are also included
in VCL.DAT.  Routines found under "Internal Routines" are inside the VCL.EXE
file, and may not be changed.  They are called by V.C.L.-generated code
depending on which options are set.  They are documented here in case you
decide to access them from a custom routine of your own.  See the main
documentation for V.C.L. (VCL.DOC) for more information about assembler
routines and how to add them to V.C.L.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Effect Procedures
=================


Procedure:	beep

Decription:	Beeps the PC speaker.  CX holds the number of times
		to beep.


Procedure:	change_ram

Description:	Changes the ammount of low (under 1 meg) memory the
		computer appears to have.  DX holds the new ammout
		of memory, in kilobytes.  This value remains unchanged
		through a warm-reboot, and when the computer is
		warm booted DOS will have less memory to use.


Procedure:	clear_screen

Description:	Clears the screen.  There are no arguments.  The BIOS
		is used to clear the screen.


Procedure:	cold_reboot

Decription:	Performs a cold reboot of the system.  Naturally this
		procedure needs no parameters.


Procedure:	corrupt_file

Description:	Corrupts one or more files.  DX points to the name of
		the file (wildcards allowed; all matching files in the
		current directory will be affected).  The files are
		encrypted by whatever the BIOS clock is at the time,
		making them virtually unrecoverable.


Procedure:	disable_parallel

Decription:	Disables a parallel port.  SI holds the port number
		(LPT1 = 1, LPT2 = 2, etc.).  The port will no longer
		be usable (until the computer is rebooted) because
		it address (stored in a table) will be wiped over.


Procedure:	disable_prnt_scrn

Description:	Disables the Print Screen key.  A flag in the BIOS
		is set so that it believes that something is already
		being printed, disabling the effect.


Procedure:	disable_serial

Description:	Disables a serial port.  SI holds the port number
		(COM1 = 1, COM2 = 2, etc.).  The port will no longer
		be usable (until the computer is rebooted) because
		its address (stored in a table) will be wiped over.


Procedure:	display_string

Decription:	Displays a string on the screen.  SI points to the
		string, which must be NULL terminated (ASCII code
		0).  The string is displayed using the BIOS screen
		procedures, insuring that output will not be redirected.
		Besides, the DOS procedure is slower, and has to be
		terminated by a "$", which is incredibly lame.


Procedure:	drop_program

Description:	Drops a program into a file.  DX points to the name
		of the file (wildcards allowed; if the file name is
		a wild card then all matchings file will be infected).
		SI points to a table:  the first word is the number of
		bytes in the dropped program, the remaining bytes are
		the program itself.  The attributes, file date/time,
		and size of the victim program are preserved, and
		read-only/system/hidden attributes will not stop this
		procedure from working.  This procedure is used to
		insert a message or code into a victim program.  This
		is useful for placing taunting messages in a file, or
		for dropping a live virus into someone's .EXE from a
		trojan horse.  There are many uses.


Procedure:	erase_files

Description:	Erases one or more files.  This procedure searches for the
		file descriptor; if a valid file is found it is erased and
		the process is repeated until no files are left.  DX holds
		a pointer to an ASCIIZ string containing the file mask.
		The method of erasure is such that it is difficult to
		recover files deleted with this routine.


Procedure:	lock_up

Description:	Locks up the computer.  The interrupt flag is cleared,
		disabling all interrupts, then the HLT command is used;
		this locks up the computer so that it may only be restarted
		with a cold reboot (achieved by either by turning off the
		computer and turning it on again or by pressing the "reset"
		button.  There are no parameters needed (duh).


Procedure:	machine_gun

Description:	Clicks the PC speaker to simulate the sound of gun shots.
		Most of this code was stolen from the Parasite-2B Virus
		by Rock Steady, but I changed the delay procedure so that
		the time between shots would stay constant regardless of
		processor speed (on my 386-40 the original routine
		sounded like a buzz).  Basically this routine just turns
		on and off the speaker quickly to make the clicking noise.
		The number of shots to fire is passed in CX.


Procedure:	out_port

Description:	Outs a value to a port.  AX holds the value to out,
		DX holds the port number (0 - 65535).


Procedure:	out_random

Description:	Outs random values to all ports.  This procedure retrieves
		the BIOS timer count, then outs the low byte of it into
		every single one of the 255 IO ports.  This may do nothing,
		or it can cause disk writes or formats, crashes, timer
		problems, modem/printer problems, or all of the above.
		It just depends.  Most likely *something* bad will happen,
		though usually just a crash.


Procedure:	play_tune

Description:	Plays a tune through the PC speaker.  SI points to a table
		of alternating frequency/duration values (word-length).  The
		frequency should be in hertz, the duration in clock ticks
		(18.2 clock ticks/second).  The table must be terminated
		by a NULL (ASCII code 0).  To produce a rest, used 0FFFFh
		as the frequency (this is acutually 65535 cycles/second,
		but human beings cannot hear frequencies that high, so
		a rest is generated).  I've found that 6 ticks for a quarter-
		note works well (therefore 3 for an eighth-note, 12 for a
		half-note, etc.).  A lot of the code in this routine
		was stolen from the sound() and nosound() procedures of
		Borland C++ v3.0.


Procedure:	print_string

Description:	Prints a string on the printer.  The address of the string
		is passed in SI and the printer number is passed in DX
		(LPT1 = 0, LPT2 = 1, etc.).  The string must be NULL
		terminated.  If the printer is not on or does not exsist
		this function will fail, of course.


Procedure:	rom_basic

Description:	Drops the computer into ROM BASIC if he has a true IBM
		computer (ugh!).  There is no escape from ROM BASIC
		other than a reboot, and trust me, it ain't much fun to
		play with (it's worse than even GWBASIC!).  On compatibles
		this interrupt will usually display a message and hang
		the computer, or have no effect at all.


Procedure:	serial_string

Description:    Transmits a string to a serial port.  DX holds the port
		number (0 = COM1, 1 = COM2, etc.) and SI points to
		the string, which must be NULL terminated.  Remember that
		when transmiting Hayes command strings that you must
		include CR-LFs.  (A special note:  the Hayes string to
		turn off the modem speaker is "ATM0 L0 (enter)."  This is
		quite useful when writing virii that call 1-900 numbers,
		for example...)


Procedure:	swap_parallels

Description:	Swaps two parallel ports, causing untold havock.  BX holds
		the number of the first parallel port (LPT1 = 1, LPT2 = 2, etc.),
		and SI holds the number of the second parallel port.  This
		effect lasts until the computer is rebooted.


Procedure:	swap_serials

Description:    Swaps two serial ports, causing untold havock.  BX holds
		the number of the first serial port (COM1 = 1, COM2 = 2, etc.),
		and SI holds the number of the second serial port.  This
		effect lasts until the computer is rebooted.


Procedure:	trash_disk

Description:	Trashes a disk by overwritting the FAT, Boot, Directories,
		etc.  AX holds the drive number to trash (0 for A:,
		1 for B:, etc.) and CX holds the number of sectors to
		overwrite, starting with sector 0.  The sectors will be
		overwritten with whatever is in memory pointed to by
		ES:BX.  During the disk write all external interrupts
		are disabled, preventing someone from pressing Ctrl-C
		or Ctrl-Alt-Del.


Procedure:	trash_disks

Description:	Trashes one or more disks by overwritting their FAT, Boot,
		Directories, etc.  AX holds the starting drive number,
		(0 for A:, 1 for B:, etc.) and CX holds the number of
		sectors to overwrite, starting with sector 0.  The sectors
		will be overwritten with whatever is in memory pointed to by
		ES:BX.  During the disk write all external interrupts
		are disabled, preventing someone from pressing Ctrl-C
		or Ctrl-Alt-Del.  All disks with a number less than or
		equal to AX will be affected (for example, to trash drives
		A through C, call trash_disks with AX = 2).  Note that
		the drives are accessed in reverse order, insuring that
		any hard disks will be destroyed first, so if there are
		no valid floppies then it will still be too late for the
		victim to reset after he sees the drive lights go on.


Procedure:	uncrunch_ansi

Description:	Uncrunches and displays a run-length encoded ANSI produced
		by The Draw.  This code is stolen from UNCRUNCH.ASM included
		with The Draw, but touched up a bit and re-commented.  Data
		for this routine must be created using The Draw and saving
		to a packed ASM format.  The offset to the data is passed
		in SI.  CX holds the length of the ANSI (this can be found in
		IMAGEDATA_LENGTH of the	code that The Draw produces; be sure
		to remove any equates that The Draw inserts into the code it
		produces).


Procedure:	warm_reboot

Decription:	Performs a warm reboot of the system.  Naturally this
		procedure needs no parameters.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Condition Functions
===================


Procedure:	get_country

Description:	Returns the DOS country code in AX.  (The codes correspond
		to the long-distance dialing prefixes for the respective
		countries.  See your DOS reference manual or local phone book
		for a list of the country codes.)


Procedure:	get_cpu

Description:	Returns the model of the CPU installed.  8088s and
		8086s return 86, 80286s 286, 80386s 386, and 80486s 486.


Procedure:	get_day

Description:	Returns the current day of the month (1 - 31) in AX.


Procedure:	get_dos_version

Description:	Returns the DOS version in AX.  DOS versions before
		2.0 return 0, while all others return the major
		version number * 100 + the minor version number
		(ex:  a system running DOS 5.0 would return 500,
		a system running DOS 3.3 would return 330, etc.)


Procedure:	get_ems

Description:	Returns the ammout of expanded memory in AX.  This value
		is in kilobytes of total (not available) EMS.


Procedure:	get_floppies

Description:	Returns the number of floppy drives installed (1 - 4) in AX.


Procedure:	get_game_port

Description:	Returns number of game ports installed (0 or 1) in AX.


Procedure:	get_hour

Description:	Returns the hour (0 - 23) in AX.


Procedure:	get_minute

Description:	Returns the current minute (0 - 59) in AX.


Procedure:	get_month

Description:	Returns the current month (1 - 12) in AX.


Procedure:	get_parallel

Description:	Returns the number of parallel ports in AX.


Procedure:	get_ram

Description:	Returns the ammount of RAM in AX.  Note that this
		is only the ammount of base RAM (under 1 meg), and
		does not include EMS or XMS memory, and is in
		kilobytes.


Procedure:	get_random

Description:	Returns a random number (0 - 65535) in AX.  The number is
		the lower word of the current BIOS timer tick count.


Procedure:	get_rollover

Description:	Returns the BIOS rollover flag (0 or 1), indicating whether
		the computer has been on for 24-hours continuously (one) or
		not (zero).


Procedure:	get_second

Description:	Returns the current second (0 - 59) in AX.


Procedure:	get_serial

Description:	Returns the number of serial ports (0 - 8) in AX.


Procedure:	get_weekday

Description:	Returns the number (0 for Sunday, 1 for Monday, etc.) of
		the current day of the week in AX.


Procedure:	get_year

Description:	Returns the current year (1980 - 2099) in AX.


Procedure:	infected_all

Description:	Returns 0 if all files have been infected, 1 if not.
		Note that this value applies to all searchable files,
		not neccessarily every file on the disk, and that this
		value is undefined if this is called before the search
		routine (ie: only use it in "after" routines).  The value
		returned comes from the internal variable set_carry in
		the infect_file procedure.


Procedure:	is_4dos

Description:	Returns 0 if 4DOS is installed, 1 if it is not.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Internal Routines
=================


Procedure:	encrypt_code

Description:	Mutates the encryption/decryption code.  A new key is
		chosen for the encryptor and the registers used in the
		routine are changed (SI and DI are alternately used as
		pointers to the encrypted code).  Then the routine is
		copied into the heap, along with code to write the
		virus to the victim, and another copy (which decrypts
		the virus) is added afterwards.  The whole long routine
		is then CALLed.  The victim's file handle is passed to
		this routine in the BX register.


Procedure:	encrypt_decrypt

Description:	Encrypts or decrypts the code, depending on whether or
		not it is already encrypted.  A simple XOR encryption
		scheme is used, but code is mutated slightly to prevent
		easy SCANing.


Procedure:	find_files

Description:	This routine is called by most search_files routines.
		It searches the current directory for the first valid
		file of the type who's mask is pointed to by DX.  If
		a valid file is found then infect_file is called.  If
		a file wasn't successfully infected then carry is set.


Procedure:	infect_file

Description:	Infects the file whose record is passed in the DTA.  The
		method of infection depends on which option(s) were chosen
		by the user.  The internal variable set_carry is set
		to zero if no files were able to be infected, and the carry
		flag set.


Procedure:	search_file

Description:	Searches for files to infect.  If a valid file is found
		infect_file is called.  The search method is defined
		by the user in the Options³Search Type dialog box.


Procedure:	stop_tracing

Description:	Locks the computer if someone is tracing through the program.
		Called whenever Stop Trace is set, this sets the interrupt
		vectors three and one (tracing interrupt) to a new vector
		which causes a system halt with all interrupts disabled.
		This frustrates anyone trying to step through your creation.
		If this fails then a short routine uses prefetch-queue
		changing to lock the keyboard if a debugger is running;
		under normal conditions nothing unusual happens.  Some code
		for these routines was taken from Demogorgon's article
		"Concealment:  Keep Your Code Hidden From Prying Eyes" in
		40-Hex magazine volume #2, issue #2 (article #2).  The
		sequal to that article, "Code Concealment" (in 40-Hex volume
		#2, issue #3, article #2), also by Demogorgon, provided
		inspiration for the prefetch-queue-alteration routine.
		These two articles provide great insight into methods of
		preventing tracing and disassembly and are highly recommended
		for people interested in the subject.


Procedure:	traverse

Description:	Traverses the directory tree looking for files to infect.
		If a valid file is found infect_file is called.  This
		procedure is recursive, using about 128 bytes per call,
		one call per level of the directory tree.  This procedure
		is only called when Options³Search Type is set to "Directory
		Tree."  Carry is set if the search fails.


Procedure:	traverse_path

Description:	Traverses the DOS PATH variable looking for files to infect.
		If a valid file is found infect_file is called.  This
		procedure is only called when Options³Search Type is set to
		"DOS PATH string."  Carry is set if the search fails.