        The Virus Creation 2000 System by Havoc The Chaos ÄÄ Freelance
                  Copywrite (c) 1993, 1993 by John Burnette
                             All Rights Reserved



                       ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
                       BORING (BUT NECESSARY) LEGAL STUFF
                       ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ



Warranty:
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

      This program is provided as-is, without warranty of any  kind, either
expressed or implied, and is only guaranteed to  occupy disk  space.  In no
event will the  author  be liable  to you or  anyone else  for any damages,
including  (but not limited to) _ANY_ lost profits, lost  savings or  other
incidental or consequential damages arising out of the use of, or inability
to use, this program.

      In short:  You are on your own.  If it works for you, great;  if not,
or if it breaks something, c'est la vie.  As  the  saying goes,  "Use it at
your own risk, but if it breaks, *YOU* have the pieces."



Copyright:
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

      This program is provided at no cost to you. However, it is NOT public
domain; it is copyrighted by the author.  You may  distribute  this program
freely, so long  as all  files in the  distribution archive  remain intact,
without any changes  or modifications.   The distribution archive is in ZIP
format;  however, you  may convert the archive to any format you choose, so
long as the above  requirements are met.  No fee's may  be charged for this
program of any kind, except for  the cost of the diskette.  Disassembly, or
otherwise modifications  are not prohibited.  The use of this  code is ONLY
for experimental and learning purposes only.  The author still reserves the
right  to demand  the source  code if he  so chooses, as he still  owns the
copyright on any and all source code generated from this package.  Removing
credits from  any  source code  generated  from  this  package  is strictly
forbidden.  Uploading of the source or executable file from this program is
strictly forbidden, except in the cases  that you tell the person receiving
the file that it is a virus.  Anotherwords,  uploading the source or binary
file to a VX board is allowed.



What VC2000 Is:
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

      The Virus Creation 2000 System (VC2000), is a virus  creator designed
for complex code generation, great configurability, and ease of use.  There
is only one file  that you need, VC2000.EXE (which is presently under 22k).
After asking  you a  series of  questions, it will then  create a MASM/TASM
compatible assembly  source code  of your virus, along with a "MAKEVIR.BAT"
which helps  speed things along a bit.  Another great option, is the  virus
detector, which you can custom configure.  This will trap an interrupt, and
when the virus calls the interrupt with DX equaling what you set it for, it
will warn you and give you an option to halt the program.



What VC2000 Isn't:
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

      For lamers!  Since the epic release  of version 0.96, too many people
have been creating viruses with  VC2000, that have no intention of learning
how to program.  So, I changed the  password to something just a little bit
harder.  If this keeps up, I will just abandon the whole project. I do this
as a deed to you, so if all that you  do with this kit is generate viruses,
and don't plan on learning anything from it, then you better hope that I do
not find out, as  I'll just  quit!  I don't  mind you  making  viruses, and
totally modifying them, hell, I encourage it!  Craft the virus to suit your
own needs, and add  something  to it.  If you  do plan  on doing  the above
mentioned, then just  email me, as I would  love to hear some of the things
that you do with this kit.  I'll also send you the latest version of VC2000
in case I stop publically releasing it.

      I didn't include  an activation stub at all,  as if you can't write a
simple activation routine and bomb yourself, then you should stop using the
Virus Creation 2000 System, and go play with Windows!!  I did, however, add
the ability to run an include file, which you have to code yourself. If you
called the procedure "checkme", then the include file should look something
like this:

checkme:  (your code here)
          ret                               ; Returns Control To The Virus


      Also, you will notice, it is not an IDE, as it would be a waste of my
coding time, and  your hard drive space.  As Dark Angel once said  "A virus
creator with an IDE is akin to a able  man intentionally  crippling his own
legs, or a person with sight poking his eyes out intentionally."



Configurable Features:
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

      Miscellanious code about the virus:
      ş Changeing Directories (Set Directory, Traverse Loop, Path, or None)
      ş Saves The Current Directory
      ş Interrupt 24h Error Handler
      ş Leave The Handler In Memory, or Restore Original Handler
      ş Non-Overwritting and Overwritting Viruses
      ş Runtime and TSR Viruses
      ş Uses It's Own Disk Transfer Access
      ş Set Directory To Change To (Commonly ".." Without Quotes)
      ş Include File Routines As Seperate Files (Custom Create Them)
      ş Checking For True EXE/OV? and COM/BIN Files
      ş Checks For COM/BIN Files That Are Too Large
      ş Checks For Previous Infection

      What it infects:
      ş Infects BIN/COM/EXE/BAT/OV?/VXD/DLL Files (Non/Overwritting)
      ş Infects SYS Files (Overwritting Only)
      ş EXE/OV?/VXD/DLL Infection Identification
      ş Stays Away From COMMAND.COM, or Infects It
      ş Allows You To Choose How Many Files To Infect
      ş Restore The File's Original Date and Time
      ş Restore The File's Original Attributes

      Anti-Detection Code:
      ş Locks The Keyboard When A User Tries Using A Debugger On It
      ş Bypasses Thunder Byte's TBClean, Thus Infecting The System
        Instead Of Cleaning It (Credit belongs to Rock Steady for the code)
      ş Anti-Turbo Debug Code
      ş Anti-TBSCANX Code
      ş Anti F-Prot Code

      Other code generated:
      ş Different "MAKEVIR.BAT" Files For Use With MASM and TASM
      ş Runtime or Terminate and Stay Resident Viruses (TSR)
      ş Custom Configurable Virus Detector (Only detects YOUR virus)
                          


Other Miscellanious Information:
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

      An example of the VC2000 System is the virus "Gunther", dedicated to
the one I love, Kiersten B., and virus writters everywhere!

      For those who are curious, the VC2000 System was created with Turbo
Pascal v7.0, using over 2400 lines of code in one unit, and one main file.

Virus Creation 2000 and VC2000 are Copyrighted (c) by John Burnette (HTC)
Turbo Pascal is a Registered Trademark (tm) of Borland, Inc.


      The VC2000 System is password protected to prevent an upsurge of new
viruses created by kit's, albeit the password is very easy, and 99.999% of
all programmers will know it. (It gives you a hint.)  I did not include an
ID marker in the VC2000 System, such as 'db [VCL20], 0' as to save  space,
but please, give credit where credit is due. This program represents about
a full days worth of programming :), but it was something I have wanted to
do for a while.

      Anyways, enough rambling, it is  time for you  to take a look at the
Virus Creator 2000 System!


      Happy coding!                         

            - Havoc The Chaos  (16 at last!)

    "VC2000 - Infects anything that moves ... and more!  (Windows)"
