 Welcome to The Viral Collector's Kit #1 by The Knights of Chaos
 ---------------------------------------------------------------

This collection was put together over the years by the members of The 
Knights of Chaos and is now presented to you as a part of our Viral
Collector's Kit.

This kit was NOT intended to teach you assembly language and how to WRITE 
viruses, but to provide some tools and viruses (for dissassembling) to those
with previous assembly language background. We have, however, included some
aids in which to experiment in viral writing, namely Nowhere Man's Virus 
Construction Lab. We've also included Mad Maniacs's Mutation Engine and Dark 
Slayer's Confusion Engine, OBJ tools needed in created polymorphic viruses.
We've also included the GenVirus Construction Lab, another Virus Construction
Lab which is unfortunately mostly in French. As a bonus, we've also included a
number of ASM files of viruses by Immortal Riot which was included in their
magazine, Immortal Riot #4. Some of the virus .ZIP files containing ASM, C,
and PAS files of their own. And finally we got tons of zines. 40Hex,
other Phalcon/Skism Virus text, NuKE InfoJournals, and Crypt Newsletter.
                                              
I hope you enjoy this first of many Viral Collector's Kits that we're putting
out. Have Fun

Neural Nightmare/K.Chaos

                        ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                        ³þ PHRACK   ³
               ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄ¿        ³
               ³þ   2600   ³        ³              (TM)
           -=-=³           ³        ³=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
               ³     ÚÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄ¿  ³  Association of
               ³  ÚÄÄ³þ  40Hex   ÃÄÄÙ  Hacking,
               ³  ³ Û³           ³     Phreaking, and
                \ÄÁÄÄ´           ³     Virus writing
                     ³  ÚÄÄÄÄÄ¿  ³     Professionals
           -=-=-=-=-=³  ³ Û   ³  ³-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                      \ÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ    

           "Education in the Pursuit of Forbidden Knowledge"

                      Viral Collector's Kit #1 
      Copyright 1995 by Neural Nightmare and the Knights of Chaos
                        All Rights Reserved


LICENSING AGREEMENT                              
      
The Author retains all rights to this software product. Rights to the 
individual SHAREWARE product(s) found within this product are retain by
their author(s). Guidelines for free distribution of each individual 
SHAREWARE product have been met by including them into this product in 
their original, unaltered state.

Rights to the individual articles, electronic magazines, and informational 
excerpts found within this product are retain by their author(s).

Rights to the computer virus files found within this software product as a
"collection of information", and the format in which they are presented to the
END USER, are retained by the Author of this product as intellectual property.
                                                                
INDIVIDUAL USERS:

If you are an individual END USER whos use of this software product, in 
whole or in part, IS NOT on behalf of a business, organization, or 
goverment agency, you may use and possess copies of this software product 
FREE of charge. You may also freely distribute this software product, in 
whole or in part (see Appendix A), to other amatuer computer and 
electronic enthusist such as yourself. You may also freely distribute this 
software product, in whole or in part (see Appendix A), to computer 
bulletin board systems which cater to amatuer computer and electronic 
enthusist such as yourself.

CORPORATE, ORGANIZATIONAL, and/or GOVERNMENTAL USERS: 

If you are an individual END USER whos use of this software product, in 
whole or in part, IS on behalf of a business, organization, or government 
agency, you must contact the Author of this software product at the 
provided Internet E-Mail Address to specify your intended usage of this 
software product to receive licensing to use this product for your 
specified intentions. Licensing of this software product is provided by 
the Author on a case by case basis. 

If you chose not to accept the terms of this agreement, you are requested
to promptly destroy any and all copies of this software product, stored 
both electronical and physical. Failure to comply with the nonacceptance 
terms is a direct violation of United States Copyright Laws.

Proceeds from the licensing of this software product will be donated to 
the defense funds of various key individuals throughout the computer 
underground.

DISCLAIMER

The Author of this product, The Knights of Chaos, and its affiliates, 
including official distribution sites and the various computer bulletin 
board systems which our viral collector's kit, in whole or in part, may be 
downloaded from, cannot be held liable for any consequencial, incidential, 
or indirect damages and financial caused by viral infection of your 
system. The Viral Collector's Kit Software product is supplied AS IS. The 
authors disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, including, 
without limitation, the warranties of merchantability and of fitness for 
any purpose.

Our sole purpose in creating this kit was for reverse engineering 
of the viral code provided, to gain better knowledge on how viral code 
works and what could be done to disinfect viruses infection. We do not condone 
malicious use of the viruses provided in our kit, and take no 
responsibility for the intentions of the END USER. The Author, The Knights 
of Chaos, and its affiliates believe in the freedom to distribute 
information and one's right to it. We also believe that what one does with
such information is for you to decide. We don't condone the destruction of 
data, and take no responsibility for financial or informational loss 
caused due to file infection.

Appendix A

END USERS who use of this product is NOT on behalf of business, organization,
or government agencies, are granted the right to freely distribute the
individual virus files in their unaltered, compressed format. The END USER is
granted the right to include additional files within the virus' compressed
format on condition that the original files included in the compressed format
remain included and unaltered.

 What you get in Viral Collector's Kit #1
 ----------------------------------------

 You Get:
 
  Virus Tools and Files
   
  * 270 Viruses in our Numerical, A, B, and C Groups
          (BBS Ready! Pre file_id.diz'd)
  * Nowhere Man's Virus Construction Lab
  * Mad Maniac's Mutation Engine for Polymorphic Viruses
  * Dark Slayer's Confusion Engine for Polymorphic Viruses
  * GenVirus Construction Lab (French)
  * KOH, An encryption virus for keeping your data secret
  * 9 virus ASM files by Immortal Riot

  Programs and Disassembling Tools

  * A86 v4.00 Macro Assembler (Shareware)
  * D86 v4.00 Debugger (Shareware)
  * Disaster v1.0 Disassembler (Shareware)
  * ASM Editor Three (Shareware)
  * Nowhere Man's NowhereUtilities
  * Detector, A Virus Strain detector
  * CatDiz, A File_id.diz cataloging system (Freeware)
  * Dizview, View Diz files within Zip Files (Shareware)
  * UUENCODE & UUDECODE for sending us files via internet

  Virus Scanners and Virus Signature Update Files

  * VSUMX v4.10 Virus Summary Hypertext (Shareware)
  * McAfee Scan v2.14E (Shareware)
  * Latest Central Point Anti-Virus 2.x Signature Updates
    For Dos and Windows released 01/06/95
  * ThunderByte Anti-Virus v6.31 with processor optimized EXE
    files.

  Informational Texts and 'Zines

  * Skism's 40Hex Magazine Issues 1 through 13
  * Phalcon/Skism's Virus Texts 1 through 5
  * Crypt Newsletter Issues 1 through 29 (missing issues)
  * NuKE InfoJournals 1 through 8

  Miscellaneous

  * Knights of Chaos' PGP Public Key
  * K-RaD README Hypertext intro (Be sure to read it!)

