 
 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
                      Pyro's Anonymous "Chaos Chronicles"
                                 Issue #3
                   Author: Inphiniti  Co-Author: Decibel

           Title: Credit Card Fraud Tutorial

            All Rights Reserved (TM) of Chaos Chronicles (c) 1990
  컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

    Credit Card Fraud:
    ------------------
    
      This the art of getting stuff for free.  There many variations in ways
    you can get credit card information and ways you can get the stuff you 
    want with the card. I will go into an indepth look at these ideas.
    
    General Knowledge:
    ------------------
    
     Visa : 4xxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xx/xx
   Master : 5xxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xx/xx

             That is basically all you need to know.
             
    Getting Cards:
    --------------
    
     There are several ways one can go about getting credit cards. There are
     good ways while there are dumb ways.
     
       Ideas:
       ------
        1.) Watch a street. Wait for the UPS man to come. Watch him closely. 
        After he drops the package off at house where there is nobody home
        go and investigate the package. First off, open the invoice on the 
        outer shell of the package. Right down that card number. Read the
        invoice. If its something you want, then snatch it. If not have a 
        scotch stick'em pad and write. (Rather un-neatly) Invoiced open to
        get address. And then leave the package un-harmed. Also wright down
        the address and nam also. Now you know the four basic thing you need.       
        
        2.) Call people on the telephone and sound professional and say. 
            " You have won a prize if your MasterCard (or visa) begins
            with a 5 (or a 4)" (Note Visa and 4 go together). And Say "
            You need the complete card number and expiration date to confirm
            that they have won the trip...."
            And ususaly 1 time outof ten somebody will give you the card number.

        3.) Become a salesman where you work. Get to a position that allows you
            to be in contact with credit cards. Write them down when no one 
            is looking or just plain and simply, memorize them.
            
        4.) Goto K-Mart or some other stupid store. At the return center there
            is usually a book (with all the previous months canceled card) and
            a shoe box or box that has all the carbons in them that have yet
            to be shread. Grab those items and dash out of the store..
            
        5.) God! Use your own head.
        
    Using Cards:
    ------------
    
        The safest way to do this is to sound real. Like an adult. I mean
        don't change your voice to too deap or there know for sure your
        fucking around. Talk normal and ask alot of questions about the
        service. Explain that you need the equipment for your cooreration
        but you are being payed extra to try the product first before the
        coorperation gets their product. Or. Order something stupid like
        Starter Jackets.. Sell them at school and buy what you want legally.
        Make sure when you give the card number out and say the name to sound
        sincere and not choak or studre over the name. Say the name in 4 digit
        sets.
        
    Recommend Way to Get Cards: #1
   
     #1 is the most full-proof method. If you got the persons real address and
     its around you then bingo you got the shit you need. Order it to that 
     address and just pick it up. Its on there bill and it will come because
     even if they check it good, its the correct house and name and all that 
     shit.
     
       

          
       Pyro's Anonymous "Chaos Chronicles"
         
  CALL

     Inphiniti's Edge BBS (216)662-5115  Home of the Chronicles
     H/P/A/T/V Board! No fucking PDers or Warez doodz!
     Ohio's First ACS Bulletin Board System.

 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
