ÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚ
ÚÚ  Compactors Demystified  ÚÚ
ÚÚ   Trash Compactor FAQ    ÚÚ
ÚÚ    By Chris Hoaglin      ÚÚ
ÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚÚ


Some compactors have plastic lids covering the opening, which flip down to close. There is a lock bar that comes down and is chained in place to keep the lids closed. However, this can be circumvented, although unless you're young and athletic like me, I don't suggest you try it. The lids can be opened enough to squeeze by and gain entrance to the opening of the compactor. once you're in, there's a wall with a 2 foot space under it separating the compacted trash from the outside world. leading into the interior. If you duck under the wall, you've got access to the interior and all the goodies it contains. 
 
Some of you are sitting here saying "this guy's crazy!", I'm sure...but doing this isn't nearly as dangerous as one might think. There are some common myths about compactors I'm going to dispell right here and now:
 
1. Everything is totally compressed inside
 
Not true. If the compactor's REALLY full, things might be under a lot of pressure, but it would really take some doing to pack a compactor that full. Otherwise, everything's just sitting there inside pretty loosely packed, and not too hard to dig through.
 
2. There's no room to work inside.
 
Again, not true..unless the thing's really crammed with stuff, there's going to be plenty of room between the trash and the ceiling, and you can easily work inside.
 
3. You're gonna get crushed.
 
Nonsense..First, if you've got a brain in your head, you do this at night. Climbing into compactors just isn't something you can get away with during the day. There's also nobody compacting trash most places after midnight, although it makes sense to make sure there are no cars in the lot, a sure sign that nobody's around. In the very unlikely event that somebody turns the thing on while you're in there, just stand on top of the trash while it gets compressed, preferably at the far end of the compactor, farthest from where the ram is pushing from. You should have no problem at all riding it out inside. Just stay on top of whatever's being compacted, and you'll be fine.
 
4. Everything's crushed inside.
 
Wrong again..Unless it's really been filled up and well compacted multiple times, most things will survive. It won't do a damn thing to books or manuals, and electronics seem to survive just fine, too.
 
5. You'll suffocate inside.
 
No way..the things are not airtight by any means, and remember the fire hose port? It's also known as an air hole, as well as a way to see what's going on outside without anybody being able to see you.
 
I've gotten some really great stuff this way..However, I would not recommend it to people who are weak, clumsy, or fat (you DO NOT want to get stuck trying to squeeze by the lid, you'll be the joke of the day for the employees who find you in the morning and have to free you, as well as the cops most likely.) 
 
This activity is also not recommended for people who are claustrophobic, and it is absolutely a night-time only activity. Parking next to the compactor is not recommended either, as that will draw attention. Just move all your loot to the opening of the compactor, then come back with the car to load it all at once. Bring a buddy along to stay outside and keep a lookout, although unless you're making huge amounts of noise inside the thing, it highly unlikely anybody will notice anything out of the ordinary. 
 
Also, I know people have talked about pulling the pins and opening one..That should work fine, the stuff's not going to come flying out like an accordion. Just check to make sure the thing's not too full before you do it. It's also more easy to get caught doing that. It might be necessary to retrieve large items, though.
 
