Executive Guide to the Protection of Information 
Resources 

National Institute of Standards and Technology 

The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), is 
responsible for developing standards, providing technical
assistance, and conducting research for computers and related
telecommunications systems. These activities provide technical
support to government and industry in the effective, safe, and 
economical use of computers.  With the passage of the Computer 
Security Act of 1987 (P.L. 100-235), NIST's activities also 
include the development of standards and guidelines needed to 
assure the cost-effective security and privacy of sensitive 
information in Federal computer systems.  This guide is just one
of three brochures designed for a specific audience.  The 
"Managers Guide to the Protection of Information Resources" and 
the "Computer User's Guide to the Protection of Information 
Resources" complete the series. 

Acknowledgments 
This guide was written by Cheryl Helsing of Deloitte, Haskins & 
Sells in conjunction with Marianne Swanson and Mary Anne Todd, 
National Institute of Standards and Technology.  

Table of Contents 
Introduction    1 
Executive Responsibilities     3 
Executive Goals 5 
Information Protection Program Elements  7 
Information Protection Program Implementation 11 
For Additional Information     15 
Introduction 
 
Federal agencies are becoming increasingly 
dependent upon automated information systems to carry out their 
missions.  While in the past, executives have taken a hands-off 
approach in dealing with these resources, essentially leaving the
area to the computer technologist, they are now recognizing that
computers and computer-related problems must be understood and 
managed, the same as any other resource. 
 
The success of an information resources protection 
program depends on the policy generated, and on the attitude of 
management toward securing information on automated systems.  
You, the policy maker, set the tone and the emphasis on how 
important a role information security will have within your 
agency.  Your primary responsibility is to set the information 
resource security policy for the organization with the objectives
of reduced risk, compliance with laws and regulations and 
assurance of operational continuity, information integrity, and 
confidentiality.  

Purpose of this Guide 
This guide is designed to help you, the policy 
maker, address a host of questions regarding the protection and 
safety of computer systems and data processed within your agency.
It introduces information systems security concerns, outlines the
management issues that must be addressed by agency policies and 
programs, and describes essential components of an effective 
implementation process.   

The Risks 
The proliferation of personal computers, 
local-area networks, and distributed processing has drastically 
changed the way we manage and control information resources.  
Internal controls and control points that were present in the 
past when we were dealing with manual or batch processes have not
always been replaced with comparable controls in many of today's
automated systems.  Reliance upon inadequately controlled 
information systems can have serious consequences, including: 

Inability or impairment of the agency's ability to 
perform its mission 

Inability to provide needed services to the public 

Waste, loss, misuse, or misappropriation of funds 

Loss of credibility or embarrassment to an agency 

To avoid these consequences, a broad set of 
information security issues must be addressed effectively and 
comprehensively. Towards this end, executives should take a 
traditional risk management approach, recognizing that risks are
taken in the day-to-day management of an organization, and that 
there are alternatives to consider in managing these risks. Risk
is accepted as part of doing business or is reduced or eliminated
by modifying operations or by employing control mechanisms. 

Executive Responsibilities 
Set the Security Policy of the Organization 
Protecting information resources is an important goal for all
organizations.   This goal is met by establishing an 
information resource security program.  It will require staff, 
funding and positive incentives to motivate employees to 
participate in a program to protect these valuable assets. 
This information resource protection policy should 
state precisely: 

the value to the agency of data and information 
resources and the need to preserve their integrity, availability,
and confidentiality 

the intent of the organization to protect the resources 
from accidental or deliberate unauthorized disclosure, 
modification, or destruction by employing cost-effective controls

the assignment of responsibility for data security 
throughout the organization 

the requirement to provide computer security and 
awareness training to all employees having access to information
resources 

the intent to hold employees personally accountable for 
information resources entrusted to them 

the requirement to monitor and assess data security via 
internal and external audit procedures 

the penalties for not adhering to the policy 

Executive Goals 
The policy established for securing information 
resources should meet the basic goals of reducing the risk, 
complying with applicable laws and regulations, and assuring 
operational continuity, integrity and confidentiality.  This 
section briefly describes these objectives and how they can be 
met. 

Reduce Risk To An Acceptable Level 
The dollars spent for security measures to control 
or contain losses should never be more than the projected dollar
loss if something adverse happened to the information resource. 
Cost-effective security results when reduction in risk is 
balanced with the cost of implementing safeguards.  The greater 
the value of information processed, or the more severe the 
consequences if something  happens to it, the greater the need 
for control measures to protect it.  It is important that these 
trade-offs of cost versus risk reduction be explicitly 
considered, and that executives understand the degree of risk 
remaining after selected controls are implemented. 

Assure Operational Continuity 
With ever-increasing demands for timely 
information and greater volumes of information being processed, 
availability of essential systems, networks, and data is a major
protection issue.  In some cases, service disruptions of just a 
few hours are unacceptable.  Agency reliance on essential 
computer systems requires that advance planning be done to allow
timely restoration of processing capabilities in the event of 
severe service disruption. The impact due to inability to process
data should be assessed, and action taken to assure availability
of those systems considered essential to agency operation.   

Comply with Applicable Laws and Regulations 
As the pervasiveness of computer systems increases 
and the risks and vulnerabilities associated with information 
systems become better understood, the body of law and regulations
compelling positive action to protect information resources  
grows. OMB Circular No. A-130, "Management of Federal Information

ystems," and Public Law 100-235, "Computer Security Act of 1987"
are two documents where the knowledge of these laws provide a 
baseline for an information resources security program. 

Assure Integrity and Confidentiality 
An important objective of an information resource 
management program is to ensure that the information is accurate. 
Integrity of information means you can trust the data and the 
processes that manipulate it.  A system has integrity when it 
provides sufficient accuracy and completeness to meet the needs 
of the user(s).  It should be properly designed to automate all 
functional requirements, include appropriate accounting and 
integrity controls, and accommodate the full range of potential 
conditions that might be encountered in its operation. 

Agency information should also be protected from 
intruders, as well as from employees with authorized computer 
access privileges who attempt to perform unauthorized actions. 
Assured confidentiality of sensitive data is 
often, but not always, a requirement of agency systems.  Privacy
requirements for personal information are generally dictated by 
statute, while protection requirements for other agency 
information are a function of the nature of that information.  
Determination of requirements in the latter case is made by the 
official responsible for that information.  The impact of 
wrongful disclosure should be considered in understanding 
confidentiality requirements. 

Information Protection Program Elements 

Need for Policies and Procedures 
Successful execution of the responsibilities previously outlined
requires establishing agency policies and practices regarding
information protection.  The security policy
directive facilitates consistent protection of information 
resources.  Supporting procedures are most effectively 
implemented with top management support, through a program 
focused on areas of highest risk.  A compliance assessment 
process ensures ongoing effectiveness of the information 
protection program throughout the agency. 

Scope 
Although the protection of automated information 
resources is emphasized in this publication, protection 
requirements will usually extend to information on all forms of 
media.  Agency programs should apply safeguards to all 
information requiring protection, regardless of its form or 
location.  Comprehensive information resource protection 
procedures will address: accountability for information, 
vulnerability assessment, data access, hardware/software control,
systems development, and operational controls.  Protection should
be afforded throughout the life cycle of information, from 
creation through ultimate disposition. 
Accountability for Information 
An effective information resource protection 
program identifies the information used by the agency and assigns
primary responsibility for information protection to the managers
of the respective functional areas supported by the data.  These
managers know the importance of the data to the organization and
are able to quantify the economic consequences of undesirable 
happenings.  They are also able to detect deficiencies in data 
and know definitively who must have access to the data supporting
their operations. A fundamental information protection issue is 
assignment of accountability.  Information flows throughout the 
organization and can be shared by many individuals.  This tends 
to blur accountability and disperse decision-making regarding 
information protection.  Accountability should be explicitly 
assigned for determining and monitoring security for appropriate
agency information. 

When security violations occur, management must be 
accountable for responding and investigating.  Security 
violations should trigger a re-evaluation of access 
authorizations, protection decisions, and control techniques.  
All apparent violations should be resolved; since absolute 
protection will never be achieved, some losses are inevitable.  
It is important, however, that the degree of risk assumed be 
commensurate with the sensitivity or importance of the 
information resource to be protected.   

Vulnerability Assessment 
A risk assessment program ensures management that 
periodic reviews of information resources have considered the 
degree of vulnerability to threats causing destruction, 
modification, disclosure, and delay of information availability,
in making protection decisions and investments in safeguards. 
The official responsible for a specific 
information resource determines protection requirements.  
Less-sensitive, less-essential information will require minimal 
safeguards, while highly sensitive or critical information might
merit strict protective measures.  Assessment of vulnerability is
essential in specifying cost-effective safeguards; overprotection
can be needlessly costly and add unacceptable operational 
overhead. 

Once cost-effective safeguards are selected, 
residual risk remains and is accepted by management.  Risk status
should be periodically re-examined to identify new threats, 
vulnerabilities, or other changes that affect the degree of risk
that management has previously accepted. 

Data Access 
Access to information should be delegated 
according to the principles of need-to-know and least possible 
privilege.  For a multi-user application system, only individuals
with authorized need to view or use data are granted access 
authority, and they are allowed only the minimum privileges 
needed to carry out their duties.  For personal computers with 
one operator, data should be protected from unauthorized viewing
or use.  It is the individual's responsibility to ensure that the
data is secure.  

Systems Development 
All information systems software should be 
developed in a controlled and systematic manner according to 
agency standards.  Agency policy should require that appropriate
controls for accuracy, security, and availability are identified
during system design, approved by the responsible official, and 
implemented.  Users who design their own systems, whether on a 
personal computer or on a mainframe, must adhere to the systems 
development requirements.  

Systems should be thoroughly tested according to 
accepted standards and moved into a secure production environment
through a controlled process.  Adequate documentation should be 
considered an integral part of the information system and be 
completed before the system can be considered ready for use. 

Hardware/Software Configuration Control 
Protection of hardware and resources of computer 
systems and networks greatly contributes to the overall level of
control and protection of information.  The information 
protection policies should provide substantial direction 
concerning the management and control of computer hardware and 
software. 

Agency information should be protected from the 
potentially destructive impact of unauthorized hardware and 
software.  For example, software "viruses" have been inserted 
into computers through games and apparently useful software 
acquired via public access bulletin boards; viruses can spread 
from system to system before being detected.  Also, unauthorized
hardware additions to personal computers can introduce unknown 
dial-in access paths.  Accurate records of hardware/software 
inventory, configurations, and locations should be maintained, 
and control mechanisms should provide assurance that unauthorized
changes have not occurred.   

To avoid legal liability, no unauthorized copying 
of software should be permitted.  Agencies should also address 
the issue of personal use of Federal computer systems, giving 
employees specific direction about allowable use and providing 
consistent enforcement. 

Operational Controls 
Agency standards should clearly communicate 
minimum expected controls to be present in all computer 
facilities, computer operations, input/output handling, network 
management, technical support, and user liaison.  More stringent
controls would apply to those areas that process very sensitive 
or critical information. 

Protection of these areas would include: 
Security management; 
Physical security; 
Security of system/application software and data; 
Network security; and 
Contingency planning. 
 
The final section of this guide describes the 
organizational process of developing, implementing, and managing
the ongoing information protection program. 

Information Protection Program Implementation 

Information Protection Management 
In most cases, agency executive management is not 
directly involved in the details of achieving a controlled 
information processing environment.  Instead, executive action 
should focus on effective planning, implementation, and an 
ongoing review structure.  Usually, an explicit group or 
organization is assigned specific responsibility for providing 
day-to-day guidance and direction of this process.  Within this 
group an information security manager (ISM) should be identified
as a permanent focal point for information protection issues 
within the agency. 

The ISM must be thoroughly familiar with the 
agency mission, organization, and operation.  The manager should
have sufficient authority to influence the organization and have
access to agency executives when issues require escalation. 

Independence 
In determining the reporting relationship of the 
ISM, independence of functional areas within the agency is 
desirable.  Plans and budget for the ISM function should be 
approved by agency management, rather than being part of any 
functional area budget.  This approach avoids conflicts of 
interest and facilitates development and maintenance of a 
comprehensive and consistent protection program that serves the 
needs of agency management. 
Degree of Centralization 

The desirability of centralized versus 
decentralized security is heavily debated and largely depends on
size, organizational structure, and management approach at the 
individual agency.  A centralized approach to security has the 
advantages of being directly responsive to executive direction 
and specifically accountable for progress and status. 
 A decentralized approach to security has the 
advantages of being close to the functional area involved.  In 
the long term, decentralization may provide better integration of
security with other entity functions. 

An effective combined approach offers advantages. 
A small dedicated resource at the agency level can direct the 
information protection program, while additional resources are 
utilized at the functional area level to implement the program in
each area. 

Dedicated Staff 
The common practice of assigning responsibility 
for information security to existing staff with other major 
responsibilities is often unsuccessful.  At least one dedicated 
staff member is recommended at the program management level.   
The need for additional full-time resources depends on the
agency's computer environment.  The number of information
systems, their technical complexity, the degree of 
networking, the importance of information processed, adequacy of
existing controls, and extent of agency dependence on information
systems affect the resources needed. 

Implementation Stages 
Development of a comprehensive information 
protection program that is practiced and observed widely 
throughout a Federal agency occurs in stages and requires ongoing
monitoring and maintenance to remain viable. 

First, organizational requirements for information 
protection are identified.  Different agencies have varying 
levels of need for security, and the information protection 
program should be structured to most effectively meet those 
needs. 

Next, organizational policies are developed that 
provide a security architecture for agency operations, taking 
into consideration the information protection program elements 
discussed in the previous section of this guide.  The policies 
undergo normal review procedures, then are approved by agency 
management for implementation. 

Activities are then initiated to bring the agency 
into compliance with the policies.  Depending on the degree of 
centralization, this might require development of further plans 
and budgets within functional entities of the agency to implement
the necessary logical and physical controls. 

Training 
Training is a major activity in the implementation 
process.  Security violations are the result of human action, and
problems can usually be identified in their earliest stages by 
people.  Developing and maintaining personnel awareness of 
information security issues can yield large benefits in 
prevention and early detection of problems and losses. 

Target audiences for this training are executives 
and policy makers, program and functional managers, IRM security
and audit personnel, computer management and operations, and end
users. Training can be delivered through existing policy and 
procedures manuals, written materials, presentations and classes,
and audio-visual training programs. 

The training provided should create an awareness 
of risks and the importance of safeguards, underscoring the 
specific responsibilities of each of the individuals being 
trained. 

Monitoring and Enforcement 
An ongoing monitoring and enforcement program 
assures continued effectiveness of information protection 
measures.  Compliance may be measured in a number of ways, 
including audits, management reviews or self-assessments, 
surveys, and other informal indicators.  A combination of 
monitoring mechanisms provides greater reliability of results. 
 
Variances from policy requirements should be 
accepted only in cases where the responsible official has 
evaluated, documented, and accepted the risk of noncompliance.  
Enforcement of agency policies and practices is important to the
overall success of an information protection program.  
Inconsistent or lax enforcement quickly results in deterioration
of internal controls over information resources. 

A positive benefit of an effective monitoring and 
enforcement process is an increased understanding of the degree 
of information-related risk in agency operations.  Without such a
feedback process, management unknowingly accepts too much risk. 
An effective information protection program allows the agency to
continue to rely upon and expand the use of information 
technology while maintaining an acceptable level of risk. 

Maintenance 
As agency initiatives and operations change, and 
as the computer environment evolves, some elements of the 
information protection program will require change as well. 
Information protection cannot be viewed as a project with a 
distinct end; rather, it is a process that should be maintained 
to be realistic and useful to the agency.  Procedures for review
and update of policies and other program elements should be 
developed and followed. 
 
For Additional Information 
 
National Institute Of Standards and Technology
Computer Security Program Office
A-216 Technology
Gaithersburg, MD 20899
(301) 975-5200 
 
For further information on the management of information 
resources, NIST publishes Federal Information Processing 
Standards Publications (FIBS PUBS).  These publications deal with
many aspects of computer security, including password usage, data
encryption, ADP risk management and contingency planning, and 
computer system security certification and accreditation.  A list
of current publications is available from: 

Standards Processing Coordinator (ADP)
National Computer Systems Laboratory
National Institute of Standards and technology
Technology Building, B-64
Gaithersburg, MD 20899
Phone:   (301)  975-2817 
                                                                           