Subj:How to Hack your school's network
From:Dr. Techno@Paradise_Lost
To:All interested hackers
Keywords:Hacking, Novell, Network, Dumb Sysop Bitch

Well, here it is.  Information on how to hack your schools network.
Many sysops of your local colleges, highschools, and middle schools are very
stupid.  Many people in the legions of computer hackers can easily outsmart
them.  This has been done time and time again.  Well anyway, about three
weeks afo I was sitting in the computer lab at my highschool and the 
dumb sysop bitch left the room to answer her phone in her office.  I   
proceeded to walk up to her desk and inside of it I found a book entitled
"Iclas" sysop training manual for the IBM Classroom LAN Administration system
or something to that effect.  I quickly scanned the table of contents and
turned to the chapter entitled "Security".  This chapter had some usefull
information on the LAN's security system and it enabled me to get into
the system as an office administrator which has sysop equilivance.
All systems, when they are initially installed, have a few built in id's
so that the system operator can go in and get the system rolling.  In most 
instances the system operator will then give these id's passwords.
Not always though.  Dumb sysops won't.  Remember, most sysops are dumb.  
Most sysops have no idea their students might even know about the security
on their networks.

Here is a list of the four id's that come preinstalled on 
IBM Classroom LAN's

ID/Initial password/secruity clearance *
======================================
admin/none/a                            * note on security access
sysop/none/s                            a=administrator
supervisor/none/s                       s=sysop
officeadmn/school/s,a                   ss=supervisor

Regarding security access:
On the system an s under the access code denotes a student, but I am
using it here to make things easier to follow.  NO BIG DEAL. 
Administrator access is all that you realy need to fuck over the system.
Once you log on as an administrator, you can add new users, delete users,
change grade levels, etc...  Note:You can only create new accts. with up
to the security equivalence you hold.  i.e. - If you log on as an 
administrator, you can't create accounts with sysop access.
Sysop access is really fun!!!!!!
If you have sysop access, you can access the actual file server menus!!!!
The possibilities of these menus are endless.  You can view and change
the actual users logs, view usage logs, install accounting options, access
the security options!!!!(I recommend you access the security menus and 
turn off call logging, enable the sysop to be logged on more than one
terminal, enable unlimited time access, etc.., etc.....) - In other
words disable all of the security features and delete all of the logs that
might key someone off that has some inteligence as to what is happening.
Me and an elite group of hackers at my school did all of this, and then 
proceeded to fuck up the user log by deleting people, changing grade levels,
deleting people's home directories, removing programs, etc...  The sysop
called in IBM, and they sent in some computer asshole to handle the emergency,
the next day.  All that the expert could figure out was that something had
gone wrong and somebody was in the system---NO SHIT, ANY ASSHOLE COULD 
FIGURE THAT OUT!!!!!!----(except for my dumb sysop!!! and probably yours too!)
They went in and restored the id's of everybody that complained they were
locked out.  (You should have saw the look on the foreign exchange student's
face when he tryed to log on and the computer kept telling him he had an
invalid id.  He kept on saying "invalid???  Who's dat?????" HAHAHAHAHA or
how about the dumb Nerd Bitch who kept all of her work on the network
for her various classes.  We conviently cleaned up her home directory, so
there was no files left except a nice message we left her!
She had a big report she had previously saved,
and she was returning to print it out.(It took her about two weeks to finish.)
She logged on and access WP 5.1.  She went to retrieve her document and it
said phile not phound.  She then displayed her directory, and she saw only 
one phile existed.  She opened it and it said "Here's a big Phuck you 
from all your friends at Mind Phuck Incorporated." <------My organization ---
I think the name is original.  If it isn't then oh well, Fuck whoever else
is using it!!!!!!!  Wow, she got really sick and started to cry.  She had done
all that work for naught!!!!!!  

Note-If you don't want to lose your access don't do any of these things, but
do them anyway because it's phun as hell fucking up networks.  
Phuck up your network the day before a big exam is going down in one
of your computers applications classes.  Format the files server's hard drive
or something.  
Also especially phun is to remove teachers from the network if they use the
system to do their grades.  Do this the day before grades have to be 
turned in!!!!!!!  Note---You can't delete a teacher from the system without
deleting all of the students that are in his/her classes.  This isn't too
hard though.  Here's what you do...Log in as an administrator and access
the info about the teacher you want to phuck over.  Change his/her password
to a single carriage return to in effect give them no password.  Then, log
off and log back on under the teacher's id.  Then select the option - 
add/remove classes.   Just remove all of the teachers classes, or rename
them, that is also funny.  Once you have the classes removed, log back
on as an administrator and delete the teacher from the user list.
Other phun things to do -- Give every user administrator access.  I don't 
this system allows for the creation of new sysop accounts, but you can
create new supervisor accounts though.  Administrator accounts are phun
because when you log on as one, your computer will do this wierd alarm
beeping shit on some systems.  This is to alert your sysop that someone is
logging on as an administrator.  I think it also does this for the sysop
and supervisor accounts.  

Here's the clencher ---  Since the "officeadmn" account contains a default   
password and most sysops never use it, they never change the default
password of "school".  The computer doesn't sound an alarm bell when you log
in either.  It just displays a message saying something to the effect that
the account you are now using is capable of infilicting serious damage
upon the system if mistakes are made.(In are case, we would be makeing
deliberate mistakes, right???!!!)  This is a power account.  You have
both administrator and sysop access.

On the relaease of Netware that my school uses, nobody, not even the sysop
is allowed to read passowrds.  A sysop or administrator can change passwords,
but can't read them.  

If this info doesn't work, get a program like getit or nethack and be
patient.  Good things come to those who wait.  (Sometimes to those who 
don't also!!!!!)

Have phun and don't get caught!!!!!

By the way - I better put a disclaimer in here, so here it is-
I Dr. Techno or any other member of Mind Phuck Inc.  is not responsible
for anthything you may do as a result of obtaining this information.

This is for educational purposes only.  If you wanna join Mind Phuck 
e-mail me on any of the boards I frequent.

Look for more philes on trojan horses,network infiltrating, and phone 
phreaking in the by Mind Phuck in the phuture!!!!

If anybody has hacked their school's network, please leave me e-mail
about the methods you used, and what happened, etc..

P.P.S -- These methods have been proven to work on the IBM Classroom LAN
administration system version 1.40 running Novell Netware ver 3.??

Peace and I'm outta here.
Dr. Techno (FNA Dr. Ave)
MPI

MPI

