                                                                    1-1-91

                               Master Hack v1.0


                                  Written By

                                 Master Frodo



[About Master Hack]

   This is the first official release of Master Hack and the first hacker
(at least that I know of) that does support high speed modems.  Master Hack
is basically a hacker that I wrote (because I wasn't satisfied with other
hackers) in Turbo Pascal and just modified the source when I wanted to hack
something new.  I decided to add an interface to Master Hack and release it
after I saw that other people were sick of out dated hackers.  I would like
to note that I would love to hear any suggestions or comments about what
to add into Master Hack or bugs that were found in Master Hack.  If anybody
needs to get hold of me, contact me at Fungus Land or The Lexicon because
these are the only boards that I try to frequent.


[Using Master Hack]

   When loading Master Hack you will be asked to configure your modem (to
find more information on this check CONFIGURING THE MODEM) and then you will
be in Master Hack's main menu.  The main menu consists of a list of
directories on the left and a list of extender files on the right.  You will
start by being able to go thru the directories to find an extender file.
To move around in the main menu simply use the arrow keys to move the hilite
bar back and forth and use:

      ENTER - When hilite bar is over directories this will switch to the
              directory selected.  If over an extender file then it will
              automatically start hacking.

      F1    - When the hilite bar is over the directories then you will have
              to specify a name for an extender file to create.  When over
              an extender file it will allow you to edit the extender.

      F2    - This option will allow you to reconfigure your modem.

      ESC   - This will quit Master Hack.


[Creating/Editing an Extender]

   When the hi-lite bar is positioned over the directories type F1.  Then
you will be prompted to enter a filename.  The filename that you have entered
will automatically have an extension of EXT, even if you have specified
otherwise.

    Phone Number  - This is the dialup you are hacking.

    Target Number - This stores the number that you will be hacking to.
                    NOTE:  When Master Hack detects a busy signal it goes on
                           to the next code.  It does not write it to the
                           code file.  I suggest hacking to a service, such
                           as Telenet (PC Pursuit), instead of hacking to a
                           Bulletin Board System.

    Code Length   - Here you will put the length of the code.

    Delay Before  - This is the delay before the code is dialed.

    Delay After   - This is the period of time for Master Hack to wait after
                    the code and target have been dialed.

          NOTE:  Delay Before and Delay After are both in seconds.

    Code File     - This is the file that all working codes will be written
                    to.  I suggest using an extension of COD on the filename
                    because of plans I have for further version of
                    Master Hack.

                    NOTE: The Code File is stored as an ASCII file so you
                          should be able to view it from DOS.


[Configuring your Modem]

    Here you will select your modem parameters.  In this version of Master
Hack you will not be able to send your own init. string because I don't think
that it is necessary for the user to have total control over their modem when
hacking.  Speed will be set at 45, which I consider to be about average.  If
their is enough people that suggest an option that would allow the user to
send a specific init. string then I might add it in.

    NOTE: To use Master Hack from anywhere on the Hard Drive, put MASTER.CFG
          in a directory that is in your path.

[Your Hacking]

   Ok, know your hacking... From this menu you will be able to see the
current status of the modem, how many tries you have done, how many valid
codes have been found, and the last valid code that was hacked.  The only
keys you have here is:

        Space - This will skip on to the next code.

        Esc   - This will stop hacking and put you back to the main menu.

    NOTE: I would at this time like to note once again that when Master Hack
          detects a BUSY SIGNAL it will go on to the next code. It does not
          write it to the file.


   Well, that is about all that I can think of so, if you need to get hold
of me call any of the two boards listed above and I hope your hacks are as
successful as mine...