HIT Inc. Presents..                         
                         
                       ® The Art of Password Hacking! ¯

PASSWORD HACKING: A FOREWORD
----------------------------
Password hacking is one of the major parts of hacking. At one time or another,
you will have to guess, either educatedly or blindly. This textfile was
written as a sort of hintbook.

METHOD 1: MANIPULATION
----------------------
One nice way to get someone's password is to get the person to tell you it.
for example, if you're in chat, make a textfile and upload it ASCII. this
will make the text come out fairly quickly, and it may appear that the system
is informing the user of an error. Have it say something like:
        HITBBS Error #99: User Verify Unknown
        Please Enter Password:
and see what the guy does!
Of course, you shouldn't do this on your own account. If you are caught,
you'll be in deep shit, mister. So make a fake account, and do this shit.
And make sure it doesn't have something that says:
CRACKHEAD: HITBBS Error #99: .. etc. etc.
In other words, make sure that it doesn't print out your name as you type it
in. Otherwise, unless the guy's a fool, he won't buy it, and he'll get the
SysOp on you.

METHOD 2: OTHER BOARDS
----------------------
If you can get your hands on the user datafile for a board, and the person
who's account you are trying to hack is in the datafile, then there is a 
decent possibility that it is the same password. There is a better chance that
the password is somewhat related. So try to get your hands on the user datafile,
and hack away!

METHOD 3: BLIND GUESSING
------------------------
Now this is something that you must do if all else fails. It is known as
the "brute-force method". Do this only if you have a lot of time and willing
to make several (hundred) phone calls. And do it when you think the person
will not be home or will not be calling the board.
Use a password that you think is likely. Here are some hints.
Likely passwords:
1) Relating to the person's real name, in some form or the other
        RealName: John Doe
        PossiblePW: doe, johndoe,jdoe,jd,johnd,john doe, doejohn, etc.
2) Relating to the person's handle, in some form or the other
        Handle: Victim
        PossiblePW: victim, vic, vict, etc.
3) A combination of the person's real name and handle, in some form or the other
        RealName: John Doe
        Handle: Victim
        PossiblePW: johndoevictim, jdvictim, jdv, johnvictimdoe, etc.
4) A combination of the person's real name and handle, along with a friend's
   real name, and maybe handle.
        RealName: John Doe
        Handle: Victim
        Friend'sRealName: Harry Hailey
        Friend'sHandle: Fuckup
        PossiblePW: johndoevictimharryhaileyfucup, jdvhhf, jdvhhfup, etc.
5) A person that the victim is interested in, e.g. a boy/girlfriend, someone
   he/she has an eye for, etc.
        RealName: John Doe
        MateHopeful: Janet Dove
        PossiblePW: janet, johndoeandjanetdove, j&j, etc.
6) A combination in some form of another of the person's phone number.
        RealName: John Doe
        PhoneNumber: 212-555-9099
        PossiblePW: 9099, 2125559099, 5559099, 212, etc.
7) Name of BBS
        RealName: John Doe
        BBS Name: Crappy BBS
        PossiblePW: crap, crappybbs, bbscrap, etc.
8) A combination of BBS name and user name, user data, etc.
        RealName: John Doe
        BBS Name: Crappy BBS
        PossiblePW: crapjdoe, jdoecrap, johndoeatcrappybbs jd@cbbs, etc.
9) Mother's maiden name:
        Real Name: John Doe
        Mother's Maiden Name: Janet Ho
        PossiblePW: johndoejanetho, janetho, ho, etc.
10) InterNet Address
        Real Name: John Doe
        InterNet Address: j.doe@crapbbs.com
        PossiblePW: j.doe@crapbbs.com, j.d@c.c, etc.
11) School Name
        Real Name: John Doe
        School: Faggot High School
        PossiblePW: faggot, jdfaggot, jd@faggot, etc.
12) The name of someone they hate:
        Real Name: John Doe
        Person Hated: Des Meanie
        PossiblePW: Des, Meanie, Desmeanie, etc.
13) The name of someone they hate, with a "FUCK" or "ISSHIT" or something.
        (also maybe the handle)        
        Real Name: John Doe
        Person Hated: Des Meanie
        Person Hated's Handle: Bastard
        PossiblePW: Bastard, fuckbastard, fuckdesmeaniebastard, etc.
14) A place where they live.
        Real Name: John Doe
        Borough of Home: Brooklyn
        Possible PW: Brooklyn, jd@brook, etc.
15) Combinations of the above

Now there are problems. People nowadays are now using little spaces in their
dialing directories to write down passwords, so they can use random
alphanumeric combinations. However, that is not that common. So if all else
fails, do the above. If all else fails, just guess like a rabbit fucks and
just do your best! Figure things out that you'd do for a password, think why
you came up with the password. Apply that to the person. OK?

IN CONCLUSION
-------------
If you try hacking a password, and you don't get it right... DON'T STOP!!
Like, try anything, even leaving the SysOp a note saying that you forgot your
password, please delete that account and start another one, y'know. Because
if the real person calls and finds out that you've tried to hack, don't you
think the SysOp will be notified??

Dat's it, folks. See ya when I see ya!
                                        Vortex[HIT]

