PYRAMID OF DOOM
---------------

Ahhh, the desert! A nice place to visit, but you really don't want to stick
around here too long. Looking around, you notice an oasis and a pole in the
sand. Get the pole, then take inventory. Aha! The pole was actually a shovel.
You also notice you are carrying a flashlight and an empty canteen. Might be a
good idea to fill it, so get water. Now, before you head on to bigger and
better things, take a quick dip with "Go Pool." Look at that! There's a big
key here. Get the key, then leave the pool by going East.

Feeling more refreshed, you trudge through the desert sands North, then hmmmm,
there's the pyramid, but there doesn't seem to be any door. Reading the sign
isn't helpful, but what about that stone? Get the stone and voila! The door to
the pyramid appears. Don't go running off to open it just yet, though. Those
old pharoahs were pretty tricky, and the entrance might be trapped. Dig again,
and go into the hole you just made. Aha!  A tiny door with a tiny lock.
"Unlock Door," and then get out of the hole. Now it's safe to open the door
(you didn't really want to get squashed flat by a huge stone slab, did you?).

You can drop the shovel, by the way. You won't need it any more and there's a
limit to how much you can carry. Now, it's going to be dark in there (no
electricity), so "Light Flash" then "Go Door," and there you are, inside the 
pyramid. The first thing you notice is a pistol. It might come in handy, so
get it. (At some point in the game, a desert nomad will appear and follow you
wherever you go. Most of the time he is harmless, but sometimes he has been
known to turn vicious and attack you. If it makes you feel safer, you can
shoot him whenever he appears -- there are four bullets in the gun.) You can
also drop the two keys here. You will need them later, but for now you don't
have to carry them around with you.

Now, which way to go? Well, head North into the dining room, then East. Hmmmm,
there's a rather large oyster here, and at the moment he isn't about to let
you pass through the archway. So, just get the flute, then go West and South,
then South again to the sitting room. Look at the ashes, then the fireplace.
Aha! A lump of coal and a gold necklace! The treasure hunt is getting off to a
good start! Things are not always what they seem, however, so "Wash Coal,"
then take inventory. The coal is actually a ruby! But, although it looks like
a treasure, it is really something far more important, so hang on to it.

Okay, let the musician in your soul loose with "Play Flute." A cobra slithers
out of the basket, and into the fireplace, revealing a secret passage. At this
point, you should save the game. In the passage are rats! Eight times out of
ten, you can pass them safely, but that other twenty percent of the time they
will kill you (it's a random thing). With the game saved, drop the flute
(which you won't need anymore), then "Go Passage," then head North and East to
the hieroglyphics room. Reading the hieroglyphics tells you to store your
treasures here, so drop the necklace. You can also drop the stone; you only
needed it to read the message here. Now get the camel jerky and go West, then
North, which will bring you to the oyster.

Feed the oyster, and get the pearl. From now on, you can pass through the
archway instead of having to go through the passage and being eaten by the
rats. It's time for more treasure, so head West, then South, and you're back
at the entrance. Open the sarcophagus, then "Go Sarcophagus." Gosh! It's
actually a stairway down. Go down, and come face to face with a fierce mummy.
Fortunately, that's no problem. Burning tana leaves are nearby, so just "Pour
Water," putting them out and the mummy to sleep. Drop canteen (no more use for
it), and get the tapestry, which reveals an alcove. "Go Alcove," and you will
find a box and a skull. Get the skull, then look at it. Aha!  Gold teeth!  Get
the teeth, then look at the box twice. Ignore the bones and get the glove.
Well, you're getting kind of overloaded, so go West, then back upstairs to the
entrance. Go West to leave the sarcophagus, then North, East, and through the
archway, and East again. Drop off the tapestry, teeth, and pearl. Then it's
back West, North, West, South, and down the sarcophagus again (get used to
this;  you'll be doing it again!).

This time, go North of the burial room to a passage with a bricked-up doorway.
Wear the glove, then smash the door. Remove the glove and drop it. Now, "Go
Door." This is the mirror room, and you won't be able to keep the light on. No
matter. "Feel Floor" and you will discover a coin. Get it, then go East (yes,
in the dark). Now, "Light Flash," and you find yourself in a dressing room.
Get the scarab, then go West (back in the dark again). Go West once more, and
light the flash. Whew! You're in the passage. Now head South twice, and you're
in a tall room with a skeleton. Drop the skull. The skeleton comes alive and
pulls a lever that exposes a ladder up. "Go Ladder," which takes you to the
revolving cavern. Go South to the ledge, and pick up the sapphire. Now, throw
the ruby. It flies over the ledge and into the acid pool below. You have just
taken care of a nasty obstacle, but more about that later.

Go South to the prison cell. Look at the dead explorer and also the rubbish.
Get the pin and the carving, but under no circumstances should you open the 
door (unless you like being a purple worm's dinner!). From here, go West, then
down again and North to the burial room. Go up and make a trip to drop off
your treasures. On the way back to the sarcophagus, pick up the two keys (you
will be needing them). Now go down, and from the burial room, first go North
and get the rope and the glove, then back South twice to the ladder. Get the
saw, then go up.

Back in the revolving cavern, you go South to the ledge. "Throw rope," which 
mysteriously attaches itself to something in the hole allowing you to "Go
Rope." This is the throne room, where you find a chain, a chest, and a pile of
metal. The metal used to be a statue of a pharoah, which would have done nasty
things to you had you not destroyed the ruby (which was its heart). Open the
chest and get the crown, then pull the chain, revealing a spiral staircase.
"Go Stairs" to the treasure room. Now, wear the glove and unlock the chest.
You need both keys to do it, and the glove protects you from the poison needle
(sneaky, huh?). Okay, drop the keys and the glove, then get the bracelet.

There's still a little more to do here, so "Saw Bars," and then you go to the
window, get the platinum bar, and return West to the treasure room. It's time
to drop off the goodies again, so go down the staircase, then down the rope,
West to the cavern and down the stairs. I think you can find your way to the
treasure room by now, so just head along over there and leave the treasures.
Now, there's still one more to get. So, head West, then North, then West again
(hmmmm, haven't you gone this way before?) into the dining room. Bet you've
been wondering about that table! Well, just saw it, and out comes the final
treasure! Grab hold of it, go back to the treasure room, drop it and then
"Score." TA DA! A perfect 100 points! The game is over! (You can now relax and
soak your feet after all that running around!!)
