SAVAGE ISLAND PART 2
--------------------

Ok, so you've solved Savage Island Part 1 and now have the password (123), but
where to now? First, you're in a state of extreme undress except for the
bandanna given to you by the pirate in Savage island! Second, outside the
force field, things are a little lacking too, particularly in the oxygen
department. You can't get very far, even if you do expel all the air from your
lungs after leaving the force field.

The lack of clothes is the least of your problems but you can get somewhere
providing you breath properly. The answer, of course, is to hyperventilate. Do
this, exit the force field and then breath out. Then go east, south, west and
west again. You should be in a room with another force field and your air will
be getting very short indeed! Enter the force field and suck in the good air.

Hmm... strange room. Look in the hydroponics and you'll see some plants. Look
at these and you'll see a flower. Take the flower, you're going to need it.
Wake the Neanderthal man in the display case by pressing the button. The
Neanderthal man is dangerous so crush the flower to put him to sleep. HOLD
YOUR BREATH FIRST! Then drag him north, north and then east. Leave him in the
red room whilst you go west back to the control console. It's time for
Psychotransfiguration!

Wear the bandanna. This is a rayshield to protect your brain. Press the button
and say the password (Free). Then press the button again and zap! Open your
eyes. Strange, your in the red room? That's because your mind is now in the
Neanderthal's body!

Go back to the room containing the hydroponics. You'll pass yourself on the
way. Take the bandanna from you, as you'll need it later. Being a strapping
Neanderthal, you can now fit a lot more air into your lungs. Hyperventilate as
before and move out of the force field. Don't forget to breath out once you've
done this.

Move east, east, east, then north, north and north again. You'll go past a
weakly flickering force field but don't go in there just yet. Close your eyes
as protection against the flickering red light and enter "go field". Open your
eyes and you'll find yourself in a sort of gymnasium. This section of the ship
seems to have been the living quarters of the alien beings who were in charge
of this "project".

Play with the ball and punching bag if you like (you don't have to) then go
exploring. Move north and then east. Examine the viewscreen there. Look over
the console but don't be concerned if nothing seems to happen. It's not for
you. Move west and the north. Ah ha, the captain's quarters. Pick up the
wafer. This will give you some explanation of what is happening. Drop the
wafer when it's finished otherwise it will play incessantly each time you
move.

Have a look around the other rooms, and eventually make your way back to the
gymnasium. Read the dial on the console. Eight electrons... hmm could that be
oxygen? How can you get the thing to work? There is a treadmill and a lever
that won't budge. Remove your bandanna. Examine it closely. You'll see some
golden threads. Unravel the threads and tie one end to the lever. Tie the
other end to the treadmill. Then go onto the treadmill. Take the railing and
run. The lever will move. Then release the railing and walk off the treadmill.

Don't go through the force field to check out the air on the other side
otherwise you will get sucked into outer space. It's the weakly flickering
force field which must be reset, as beyond this lies a door open to the void!
Untie the thread and take it. Then move north and east to the room with the
viewscreen. Now for something cunning. Tie the thread to itself to make a
loop. Drop the loop and go into it. Surprise, another part of the ship! Take
the alien device you find in the machinery and then turn your attention to the
console. Read the dial and push the button. It's done. Go through the dark
hole back to the room you came from then take the loop and return to the
gymnasium. Now go through the force field.

Hmm... fresh air. Make your way back to the room you first entered after
leaving the force field at the beginning of the adventure. Check out what's
beyond the now-reset force field on the way back if you like but don't stay
there too long. There's no air!

Now to deal with the dinosaurs. You're about to send the bomb back through
time. Read the dial and press the button on the console. You can't talk so
move the red switch on the alien device to provide the password. Take the
block and go through the force field with it. Drop the block and exit the
force field. Press the button to send the bomb on it's way.

Now for the final phase. Drop the loop and go into it. Move the blue switch on
the alien device. You will be moved to a new location. Now all you need to do
is press the button in front of you.

The game ends, and you are left with a coded message. Deciphering this reveals
what happens next and answers any remaining questions you may have about what
has already happened. Coded message may be found in codes.txt file.

Solution by Terry Stewart
