
       The Leidenfrost Effect

Oh boy, can you have a lot of fun with
this.  The Leidenfrost Effect is
something you've probably already seen
in your own kitchen.  Have you ever
gotten a skillet or pan so hot that when
droplets of water hit it they just bead
up and dance around before finally
evaporating.  This is the Leidenfrost
Effect.

Basically, what happens is that because
of the high heat, some of the liquid is
vaporized and creates a sort of barrier
between the heat source and the liquid.


Here's a great way to have fun with
this.  The next time you are at a party
or gathering where cold beverages are
being served, find a smoker.  Press your
thumb or finger tip against the side of
your ice cold glass or can (it should be
cold enough that it sweats [condenses].
Then take the lit cigarette and hold it
by the ends between the thumb and middle
or index finger of the same hand.  Be
sure to put the lit end on the finger or
thumb that was pressed against the cold
glass.  You will be able to hold it for
several seconds without discomfort or
damage.  When it starts to warm up, grab
it quickly and watch the look of
amazement on people's faces.

You do have to be careful not to hold
the cigarette for too long, but once you
try this once or twice, you'll know just
how long to hold it.  You can play the
patter up on this and tell them how you
are immune to pain, or you spent some
time with a fire worshipping tribe in
New Guinea or something.  Use your
imagination.  It can be most impressing.
Act casual, but be aware of the passage
of time.  Get your point across in just
a few seconds and "leisurely" remove the
cigarette from your fingers.

You can get away with this a number of
times at the same gathering if you are
suave enough.  Just don't be obvious
about your fingers and the glass.  This
shouldn't be any problem since you will
probably be drinking something yourself
and you have to hold it anyway.  Just be
careful that your drink doesn't get warm
or empty just before you are asked to do
this in front of an unbeliever.

I have personally made some nice EZ
money betting people I could do this at
bars, parties etc.

Variation

Press the same glass against the pad of
flesh just below the thumb and you can
now put out a cigarette on the "palm" of
your hand.  Again, just be aware of the
passage of time.  Extinguish the
cigarette quickly but make it LOOK
leisurely.  Tell people you spent some
time in Hawaii where the people
understand fire.

It's this same effect that enables you
to snuff out a candle with your fingers,
place a lit match in your mouth without
burning ( or a lit cigarette, lit end
first).  I once won $300.00 in a little
bar in New Mexico by betting that I
could hold my hand over one of those
candle containers with a lit candle
until the candle went out.  These are
the type shaped like a small fish bowl
with the candle inside.  They are almost
round, with a small opening at the top.


The theory was that if you sealed the
top well enough, the air would burn up
and the flame would go out.  Everyone
else tried unsuccessfully and the pot
grew a little more each time, I sat with
my hand wrapped around a frosty bottle
of Dos Equis.  When my turn came, I used
every advantage I could think of.  My
palm was moist and cold, creating an
airtight seal, but I also squeezed hard
on the top, forcing some air out.  Just
when I thought I couldn't stand it
anymore, the flame grew tiny and died.
Three hundred bucks for a few seconds
effort is pretty good money.  Needless
to say, I bought a few rounds for our
table.  Always be a gracious winner.

Also be aware that three grown men
burned the hell out of their hands
trying to do this.


           - END FILE -
