JULY 1990, NASA TECH BRIEFS, VOL 14, NO 7

                      FRANCE: A LEADER IN SPACE

France has been active in space R&D since the  early  1960s.   In  1965,
France placed a satellite in orbit  using  its  own  resources.   Today,
France is the number three spacefaring nation, after the  United  States
and the Soviet Union.  French efforts  are  balanced  between  a  strong
national program under the leadership of the  Centre  National  d'Etudes
Spatiales (French Space Agency) and a leading role in  the  projects  of
the European Space Agency.  

A characteristic success of the national program is the series  of  SPOT
remote sensing satellites: SPOT 1 has been in operation since 1986; SPOT 
2 was placed in orbit early in 1990; SPOT 3 is under  construction;  and
SPOT 4, decided upon in 1989, will ensure continuity of data  until  the
end of the century.  Pictures from SPOT, with 10-meter  resolution,  are
marketed by the SPOT Image Company and its U.S. subsidiary, SICorp.  

France promoted the European launch vehicle  Ariane  and  made  a  major
contribution to the  funding  of  the  European  Space  Agency  program.
Arianespace, the company set up to market the launcher, has gained  more
than half the world market open to commercial competition.  

The French space industry is the European leader, its  capabilities  and
experience range from the production of sensors and complex  systems  to
exercising full responsibility as main contractor for complete satellite 
and ground equipment systems.  

I am sure that beyond current scientific collaboration,  illustrated  by
the Topex-Poseidon project, the tradition of scientific  and  commercial
cooperation between France and the United States will go  from  strength
to strength.  

       --  Paul Quiles
           Minister for Posts, Telecommunications and Space



                   FRANCE'S HIGH TECHNOLOGY IN SPACE

France is the leading space power in Europe.  Its space effort began  in
March 1962 with the creation of a  national  space  agency,  the  Centre
National d'Etudes Spatiales (CNES).  France was  a  founding  member  of
European space organizations such as the ESRO and the ELDO,  which  were
replaced in 1973 by a single cooperative body, the European Space Agency 
(ESA).  

The French are politically, financially, and technically influential  at
ESA.  In addition to being the largest contributor, providing more  than
a third of the ESA's funds,  France  has  provided  valuable  proposals,
including the ESA's first launch vehicle, Ariane, and now  the  Ariane-5
heavy-lift launcher and the Hermes manned spaceplane.  

Together with the  Columbus  space  station  initiated  and  principally
sponsored by Germany and Italy, Hermes and Ariane-5 are the largest  and
most expensive programs underway in Europe.   The  development  of  this
unprecedented space triad represents a $20  billion  investment  by  the


                           1





ESA's 13 member states.  

Ariane-5 is to replace past Ariane rockets for  commercial  launches  of
geostationary and polar satellites.  It is also designed  to  loft  into
low-Earth orbit the Hermes spaceplane, which will service  the  European
orbital infrastructure, including Columbus.  Hermes also will  have  the
capability to visit  foreign  space  stations,  including  the  American
Freedom station and the Soviet Mir facility.  The hypersonic glider will 
carry three crew members and three tons of payload  into  space  station
orbits at approximately 450 km.  Its  initial  autonomy  of  seven  days
could later be expanded to one month.  

Hermes and Columbus, while appearing modest compared to U.S. and  Soviet
capabilities in similar domains, will be extremely important  to  Europe
because they will give it autonomous access  to  manned  space  flights.
This ambitious goal is within European  capabilities,  both  technically
and financially.  European aerospace firms, especially  those  presented
in this survey, have the  high-tech  capabilities  needed  to  meet  the
challenges of manned space flight.  


      FROM SATELLITE AND ROCKETS TO THE GOAL OF MANNED SPACEFLIGHT:
      AN OVERVIEW OF FRENCH INDUSTRY'S ACHIEVEMENTS AND CHALLENGES

This year, France will celebrate  the  25th  anniversary  of  its  first
satellite launch.  On November 26, 1965, the 41 kg Asterix satellite was 
launched from Hammaguir in the Sahara Desert and put into orbit to  test
the performance of its pioneering rocket, Diamant.  

Sence then, France has continually increased its space effort.  In 1990, 
CNES will spend nearly $2 billion for space activities, with the  lion's
share  (40  percent)  going  to  ESA.   The  French  aerospace  industry
presently employs more than 10,000 people, mainly skilled engineers  and
technicians.  Major French aerospace  companies  include:  Aerospatiale,
Matra, Alcatel, Dassault, SEP, SNPE, Arianespace, CLS Argos, SPOT Image, 
and Novespace.  The latter four are among the 15 commercial subsidiaries 
CNES has founded over the last 20 years.  

REORGANIZING THE SPACE INDUSTRY

Three leading French  aerospace  companies  are  prime  contractors  for
satellite systems in the  fields  of  communications,  observatino,  and
sci8ence.  The government-owned Aerospatiale and the privately-led Matra 
are manufacturing scientific, communications, direct  broadcasting,  and
remote  sensing  satellites  as  part  of  national  and   international
programs.   Both  have  expertise  in  developing  subsystems  such   as
structures, thermal and attitude controls,  data  processing  equipment,
on-board computers, and software.  They  also  develop  instruments  and
systems for biomedical  and  materials  processing  experiments  in  the
microgravity environment of space.  

Alcatel Espace, the only major French company fully dedicated  to  space
activities, is a leading manufacturer of satellite  payloads  and  space
borne equipment for communications and  military  surveillance  systems.
The French Ministry of Defense selected Alcatel as prime contractor  for
the Syracuse military communications satellite system.  The contract for 
Syracuse 2 is worth $700 million.  



                           2





Aerospatiale and Alcatel are working on  an  agreement  to  merge  their
respective satellite activities into a single unit.  The  joint  venture
should be established by the end of 1990.  Matra Space  recently  teamed
with Marconi Space Systems to create Matra Marconi Space  (MMS).   Matra
is majority owner  and  will  retain  its  previous  deal  with  British
Aerospace to jointly develop Eurostar satellite platforms.  

Matra has established alliances with several other  European  companies,
including Crisa (Spain), Spacebel (Belgium), and Intecs (Italy).   These
joint ventures are part of an effort by aerospace companies to diversify 
and build market share in order to cope with the unified European market 
of 1993.  

MATRA EXTENDS ITS BASE

Last year, Matra extended its strong European base by gaining control of 
Fairchild Industries in the United States.  The  French  company  bought
three divisions of Fairchild -- Space,  Communication  and  Electronics,
and Control systems -- with a combined staff of 2100 and total sales  of
$250 million in 1989.  The new entity, named  the  Fairchild  Space  and
Defense Corp. (FSDC),  "will  remain  an  autonomous  American  company"
according to Claude Goumy, MMS chairman.  

With  its  European  subsidiaries  and  American  acquisition,  MMS  now
represents a space group  with  4000  workers,  sales  approaching  $830
million, and order totaling  approximately  $1.5  billion.   The  unit's
operating profit is between six and seven percent, according  to  Goumy.
MMS is now ranked  third  among  the  world's  satellite  manufacturers,
behind two American giants, Hughes Aircraft and GE Astro  Space.   Goumy
expects MMS to grow 15 percent annually.  "The group  will  employ  5000
workers and achieve $1 billion in sales by 1992," he predicted.  

Matra is involved in  five  areas  of  space  business:  communications,
observation satellites, scientific  satellites  and  instruments,  space
borne avionics, and launcher equipment bays for Ariane.  The company  is
prime contractor for numerous civil and military  satellites,  including
Telecom 2, Hispasat, Locstar, SPOT, Helios, ERS,  Hipparcos,  and  Soho.
The Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (Soho), part of the international 
Solar-Terrestrial Physics Program,  will  be  launched  by  an  American
rocket in 1995.  

Matra  has  developed  space-borne  instruments  for  Earth  Observation
satellites, including CCD cameras for SPOT and imaging  radiometers  and
infrared sensors for Meteosat satellites.  One Meteosat radiometer set a 
world record by sending more than 400,000 images during  its  seven-year
lifetime.  

VSATs (very-small-aperture terminals)  also  attracted  MAtra.   Through
Polycom, a cooperative venture with France Telecom, the company has sold 
more than 1000 VSATs in  70  countries.   These  one-way  terminals  are
jointly developed by Matra, Fuba of Germany, and Harris  Corp.,  of  the
U.S.  Matra is now addressing the two-way VSAT market and also wants  to
enter the direct broadcasting business.  

One way Matra hopes to increase its space business is by expanding  into
the area of satellite services.  The French group is  a  shareholder  in
service companies such as Arianespace and SPOT  Image,  and  intends  to
gain a foothold in the mobile communications business  by  participating


                           3





in  new  ventures  such  as  Locstar,  the  French   radio-determination
satellite system (RDSS) initiated by CNES.  

Locstar will be developed and operated by the  privately  owned  company
Locstar SA, another commercial subsidiary of CNES.  The L-band RDSS will 
be a two-way system designed for mobile use on land, at sea, or  in  the
air.  It will use two MMS-built geostationary satellites  scheduled  for
launch by Ariane in 1992.  Locstar will compete with other RDSS  systems
sponsored by international organizations such as Eutelsat and  Inmarsat.
Eutelsat is  presently  promoting  its  Euteltracs  system,  a  European
version of the U.S. Omnitracs system.  Alcatel Espace recently signed  a
contract with Qualcomm  Inc.  to  promote  and  sell  Euteltracs  mobile
receivers in Europe.  

ALCATEL ESPACE'S ELECTRONICS IN SPACE

The Alcatel group was restructured earlier this year and two  new  units
were formed: a radio, defense, and  space  company  chaired  by  Jacques
Imbert, and a space division headed  by  Jean-Claude  Husson,  who  also
serves as president of Alcatel Espace.  

The French firm  is  a  leading  producer  of  communications  satellite
payloads  and  space-borne   electronic   equipment,   including   power
amplifiers, repeaters, receivers, transmitters,  multiplexers,  filters,
and antennas.  It develops satellite antennas for the 2 to 90 GHz  range
and also produces ground stations.  Telspace, an Alcatel subsidiary, has 
sold more than 2000 Earth stations worldwide and is now moving into  the
VSAT market.  

Alcatel Espace has equipped more  than  40  national  and  international
satellites.  The company developed payloads and  equipment  for  several
communications and direct broadcasting  satellites,  including  TDF,  TV
SAT, Tele-X, Telecom 2, and Eutelsat 2.  It provided telemetry, command, 
and ranging equipment for  scientific  satellites  such  as  Giotto  and
Ulysses, and produced much of the on-board electronics for SPOT, Helios, 
and other Earth observation satellites.  

Alcatel is a member of the international team For Aerospace selected  to
build five new  Intelsat  7  communications  satellites.   Moreover,  it
received a contract from GE Astro Space to build a  transmitter-receiver
for NASA's Mars Observer craft,  scheduled  for  launch  in  1992.   The
equipment will relay data collected on Mars' surface by French  balloons
deployed by the Soviet spacecraft Mars 94.  

The first European experiment in inter-satellite link is being developed 
at Alcatel Espace under a CNES contract.  The Ka-band orbital link  will
be tested  between  two  European  satellites:  Olympus  1,  already  in
geostationary orbit, and the retrievable  carrier  Eureca,  planned  for
launch aboard the space shuttle in September 1991.  

Under contract to ESA, Alcatel has participated  in  design  studies  of
Data Relay Satellites slated launch in  1996.   The  European  DRS  will
transmit data in the Ka-band at 400 MBits/s.  

In  summary,  Alcatel  Espace's  know-how  covers  the  technologies  of
communications satellite systems from 400 MHz to 30 GHz.  In cooperation 
with the Canadian companies Spar and Comdev, the French firm is  working
on military equipment using even higher frequencies -- 40-60 GHz (ELF).  


                           4






Alcatel's expertise extends to microwave instruments and data processing 
techniques  for  space-borne  synthetic  aperture  radars  (SARs).   The
company is in charge of the radio frequency  calibration  subsystem  for
the Active Microwave Instrument  of  ERS-1,  the  first  European  radar
satellite.  The radar processing equipment employs surface acoustic wave 
devices and  other  innovative  technologies  developed  by  AME  Space,
Alcatel's Norwegian affiliate.  

Alcatel Espace is studying designed of C- and S-band imaging radars  for
future civilian satellites, including the European Polar Platform.  CNES 
awarded Alcatel a contract to build a prototype SAR  called  Radar  2000
which will feature a resolution of 4 to  20  m  with  a  field  of  view
ranging from 20 to 40 km.  The rapid-scanning, phased-array antenna will 
be fitted with  several  hundred  transmitting-receiving  modules  using
monolithic circuits.  Alcatel  researchers  are  also  studying  a  high
resolution space-borne radar  for  military  applications  such  as  the
detection of surface ships.  

CNES awarded Alcatel Espace $20 million  to  develop  the  first  French
space-borne radar-altimeter, dubbed Poseidon, which  will  fly  with  an
American SAR on the Topex  oceanography  satellite  to  be  launched  by
Ariane in June 1992.  From its orbit 1300 km above the  Earth,  Poseidon
will measure ocean altitude with an accuracy of 3 to 4 cm.  A  prototype
of Poseidon is now being tested at  CNES.   "Its  performance  seems  at
least as good as that of the American radar-altimeter," said Mr. Husson.  

AEROSPATIALE: FROM THE FORCE DE FRAPP TO SATELLITES AND ROCKETS

Aerospatiale-Strategic  and  Space  Systems  Division  is  tasked   with
developing satellites and rockets as well as ballistic missiles for  the
French "Force de Frappe."  This year, for  the  first  time,  "space  is
exceeding military  business,"  according  to  Michel  Delaye,  the  new
division head.  It represents about 52 percent of the  division's  total
turnover, estimated at $1.3 billion. 

Over the past 25 years, Aerospatiale has contributed to the  development
of 60 satellites and today is  prime  contractor  for  approximately  40
percent of all civilian satellites developed in Europe.  Its space group 
severed as  prime  contractor  for  several  recent  communications  and
meteorological satellites, including Meteosat, Arabsat,  TDF  1  and  2,
Tele-X, and Eutelsat 2.  On May 28, Aerospatiale delivered the  Eutelsat
2/F1, the  first  of  five  new  communications  satellites  ordered  by
Eutelsat.  The satellite is planned for launch this year by  Ariane,  as
are the MOP 2 and TDF  2.   TDF  1  and  2  are  France's  first  direct
broadcasting satellites; they can relay up to five  television  programs
through powerful beams over France and most of Europe.  

Another recent achievement  by  Aerospatiale's  space  division  is  the
Infrared Space Observatory (ISO), built  for  ESA.   This  sophisticated
astronomy  satellite  is  equipped  with  a  60-cm  aperture   telescope
installed inside a large cryostat cooled by liquid helium.  The  2.4-ton
observatory is slated for launch by an Ariane 4 in 1993.  

Aerospatiale is developing several other French and European satellites, 
including  SPOT,  Helios,  and   ERS-1.    For   the   Helios   military
reconnaissance satellite, it is providing the structure,  solar  panels,
and thermal control system,  as  well  as  the  main  instrument  --  an


                           5





optoelectronic  camera  that  will  take  high-resolution  visible   and
infrared pictures.  The first Helios satellite, weighing about 2  metric
tons, is planned for launch into heliosynchronous  orbit  by  Ariane  in
mid-1993.  

Aerospatiale is the European leader  in  space  transportation  systems,
including Ariane rockets and the  Hermes  spaceplane.   It  manufactures
propellant tanks for the  liquid-fueled  Ariane  rockets.   The  company
integrates the first and third stages of the launchers at a facility  in
Les Mureaux, near Paris.  New facilities were  built  to  integrate  the
Ariane 5's cryogenic first stage, which is 5.4 m in diameter  and  30  m
tall.  When fully assembled, it will be ferried by a barge to Le  Havre,
where it will be shipped to Kourou.  

Aerospatiale's space and aircraft division  are  working  in  tandem  to
develop  the  Hermes  spaceplane.   "It's  a  challenging  program  that
requires major breakthroughs in several  advanced  space  technologies,"
said Delaye.  "But it will pave the way for the development  of  piloted
space systems and hypersonic reentry vehicles by European industry,  who
will then be better prepared to address the design of future shuttles."  

The company is also studying servicing  vehicles  for  the  European  in
orbit infrastructure.  This includes a transfer orbital stage and a crew 
rescue capsule.  Supported by  its  experience  with  ballistic  reentry
bodies and Hermes, Aerospatiale has signed an agreement  to  assist  the
Lockheed Missiles and Space Company in responding to NASA's request  for
the Assured Crew Return Vehicle (ACRV).  

Delaye's team is conducting preliminary concept and design studies of  a
follow-on to Ariane-5.  This is part of the company's internal  work  on
future reusable  space  vehicles.   According  to  Delaye,  Aerospatiale
favors a two-stage, rocket-type vehicle that would lift  off  vertically
and land horizontally on a runway.  

Aerospatiale's space aircraft and tactical divisions  are  participating
in an assessment study of hypersonic vehicles sponsored  by  the  French
Ministry for Research and Technology.  The aircraft  division  developed
the  Concorde  and  is  now  cooperating  with  British   Aerospace   on
preliminary studies of a next-generation supersonic transport, while the 
tactical division developed the world's only operational ramjet missile: 
the ASMP medium-range nuclear missile.  

DASSAULT GOES TO SPACE WITH HERMES

Dassault, the well known combat aircraft manufacturer,  became  a  major
player in the space industry five years ago when it was named  delegated
prime contractor for the Hermes spaceplane.  Dassault's space activities 
began in 1962 with the development of the MD 620 ballistic  missile  and
concept studies of a hypersonic vehicle  called  TAS.   In  1972,  under
contract to Boeing and Grumman, the  company  designed,  developed,  and
tested a candidate thermal protection system for the space shuttle.  

The Hermes project marks Dassault's  reentry  into  the  space  business
after more than a decade of absence.  The  company  is  responsible  for
Hermes' aerodynamic design, reentry trajectories  and  related  systems,
atmospheric light control systems, and  subsonic  flight  tests.   These
tasks are extremely challenging because of Hermes' small size and  mass,
explained Jean Roubertie, Dassault's director of  space  programs.   The


                           6





spaceplane will weigh between 21-23 metric tons and be designed  for  an
extended  flight  envelope  ranging  from  160  to  16,000   knots   and
atmospheric reentry from Mach 29.  External temperatures will vary  from
-101 to +1816 degrees C.  

Hermes' aluminum structure will require thermal protection systems  that
can support the effect of  oxidation  during  30  successive  reentries.
"Hot" fuselage parts such as the  nose,  winglets,  leading  edges,  and
control surfaces will be made of carbon and ceramic  composite  integral
structures developed by Aerospatial and SEP.  "Cold"  surfaces  will  be
covered  by  ceramic  tiles  or  lightweight   multilayered   insulation
comprised of glass or quartz fibers.  

Flight control  of  the  hypersonic  glider  will  be  achieved  through
configuration controlled vehicle  (CCV)  techniques  developed  for  the
Rafale.  For atmospheric test flights at subsonic speeds, Hermes will be 
dropped from an aircraft carrier such  as  Airbus.   Dassault  has  also
proposed using a modified Falcon jet for testing and qualifying approach 
and landing procedures one year before the  first  orbital  flight,  now
planned for 1998.  

Dassault is also involved in technology development for astronaut extra- 
and intra-vehicular activity (EVA/IVA).  More than 30 European firms are 
developing EVA/IVA suits and life  support  systems  under  contract  to
Dassault and Dornier of Germany.  The IVA system includes ejection seats 
for Hermes' three crew members.  Dassault is considering  using  ejector
seats similar to those developed for the  Soviet  shuttle  Buran.   They
would enable safe ejection at speeds up to Mach 3.  

In addition to Hermes, Dassault  is  investigating  reusable  hypersonic
space transportation systems as part of the Star-H study funded by CNES. 
Star-H us derived from Dassault's TAS research.  The new design  employs
a large hypersonic plane to launch a small  spaceplane  propelled  by  a
jettisonable booster.  This element is the only nonrecoverable  part  of
the 400-ton vehicle, scaled to carry a  Hermes-type  spaceplane  in  low
Earth orbit with a payload of approximately 3 tons.  The Star-H  program
aims to build a realistic  data  base  on  aerothermodynamics,  airframe
engine  integration,  stage  separation,  structures,   and   materials.
Further, it looks to define aerodynamic  codes,  structural  loads,  and
other parametric laws which could be used in designing manned hypersonic 
vehicles for space or transatmospheric missions.  

Dassault is also conducting studies  of  planetary  reentry  systems  in
cooperation with Marconi of the United Kingdom, Dornier, and  SEP.   The
studies involve various types of aeroshells designed  to  protect  entry
probes dropped on outer planets or bodies such as comets.  

Now in the beginning stages, space activities will account for a  modest
three percent of Dassault's turnover in  1990.   The  company  hopes  to
raise that figure to ten percent.  

SEP, THE MOTOR SPECIALIST

SEP (Societe Europeenne de Propulsion) is the  only  company  in  Europe
and one of the few in the world with  the  capability  to  produce  both
liquid and solid rocket engines of various sizes for civil and  military
applications.  Its production ranges from  small  tactical  missiles  to
large stages of ballistic missiles  and  space  boosters,  and  includes


                           7





conventional and cryogenic  liquid  engines  for  space  vehicles.   The
company has 4000 workers and an annual turnover  of  approximately  $800
million, according to SEP chairman Jean Sollier, who compares the firm's 
size to that of Thiokol in the U.S.  

SEP's main business is liquid rocket engines for the  Ariane  family  of
launchers.  The company will produce  several  hundred  Viking  and  HM7
engines for Ariane 4 rockets.  Each Ariane 4 uses nine  Vikings  on  the
first and second stages and one HM7 on the third stage.  The Viking is a 
storable liquid propellant  engine  which  delivers  an  average  thrust
exceeding 700 kN.  The HM7 is the first operational cryogenic engine  in
Europe.  The turbopump-fed engine burns a mixture of liquid  oxygen  and
hydrogen with a rated thrust of more than 60 kN and a  chamber  pressure
of 31-36 bars.  

SEP is prime contractor for  the  Vulcain  cryogenic  engine  that  will
propel the Ariane 5's first stage.  An open-cycle turbopump engine,  the
Vulcain  works  under  a  chamber  pressure  of  100  bars  to   deliver
approximately 110 tons of thrust.  It burns about 24  tons  of  hydrogen
and 128 tons of oxygen in 560 s with a specific impulse of 430  s.   SEP
received a contract worth more than $260 million to develop the Vulcain. 
The first engine, delivered in April, will be fired this summer  at  the
SEP test bed in Vernon, near Paris.  

SEP has teamed with the Italian firm BPD to develop and manufacture  the
Ariane  5's  huge   solid   boosters.    The   joint   venture,   called
Europropulsion, received a $670 million contract.  Ariane 5 will use two 
solid boosters to lift the  rocket  during  the  first  two  minutes  of
flight.  Each booster weighs about  260  tons,  including  230  tons  of
composite propellant, and  has  a  nominal  thrust  of  600  tons.   The
boosters are 26 m long, 3.1 m in  diameter,  and  have  three  segments,
including two weighing more than 100 tons.  They  are  produced  on  the
launch site in Guiana.  

The French firm is now developing advanced  rocket  engines  for  future
applications on launch vehicles.  Last year, it successfully  tested  an
HM7 cryogenic engine equipped with a ceramic nozzle  made  of  a  carbon
silicon carbide material called Sepcarbinox.  The engine was  test-fired
for 750 s and 900 s and  sustained  operating  temperature  up  to  1800
degrees C.  The ceramic nozzle is 1 m in length and diameter and  weighs
only 25 kg.  SEP research shows that a cryogenic engine fitted with this 
type of non-deployable nozzle can increase payload  mass  by  65  kg  on
Ariane 4 and 1650 kg on Ariane 5.  

SEP is also conducting  research  on  low-thrust  liquid  engines  under
contract to DGE.  It has tested the major components of a  20  N  engine
designed for attitude control of satellites and the  Hermes  spacecraft.
During preliminary ground tests, the injector and  thrust  chamber  have
been fired for one hour at 1600  degrees  C.   Previously,  the  company
developed MMH-N2O4 engines for attitude control of TDF and TV-SAT direct 
broadcasting satellites.  It  also  built  the  Mage  Apogee  motor  for
satellite transfer into geostationary orbit.  

SEP  has  established  technological  and  commercial  links  with  some
prominent U.S. aerospace firms.  Five years ago it  signed  a  long-term
agreement with Rocketdyne to work  on  liquid  propulsion  concepts  for
future launchers.  It has  sold  licenses  for  its  advanced  composite
materials to three American companies: Corning Glass, for development of 


                           8





a carbon-carbon product for human prosthesis; Dupont de Nemours,  for  a
ceramic  material  used  in  a  classified  defense  program;  and  B.F.
Goodrich, for carbon-carbon disks applied to aircraft brakes.  

Earlier this year, SEP was chosen to provide the composite rocket engine 
nozzle for the ERINT experimental  missile  developed  by  LTV.   Flight
tests will begin in 1991.  

"The U.S. is a high-priority market for  SEP,"  said  Mr.  Sollier,  who
hopes to participate in propulsion research for the  National  Aerospace
Plane and other U.S. aerospace projects.  SEP and Snecma recently set up 
a joint venture called Hyperspace to work on hypersonic  propulsion  for
future atmospheric vehicles.  

SNPE: MAKING MAGIC POWDER FOR ROCKETS

SNPE (Societe Nationale des Poudres  at  Explosifs)  is  developing  and
producing solid propellants for civil and defense applications  such  as
tactical and ballistic missiles and space rocket motors.  Last year, the 
company established a defense and space division headed by Pierre Dumas. 
The division is responsible for half of SNPE's turnover, which  amounted
to $650 mission in 1989.  Five years ago, the group established a  sales
branch in the United States,  SNPE  Inc.,  located  in  New  Jersey,  is
developing the company's full range of chemical products.  

SNPE's main customer for space products is CNES.   The  company  started
with UDMH (unsymmetrical dymethylhydrazine), which has been produced  by
its chemical division in Toulouse since  1983.   Initially,  the  liquid
propellant for Ariane rockets was purchased from China  and  the  Soviet
Union.  Now, however, Ariane's liquid fuel is produced in France and  is
purer than the imported versions.  

The company is working with BPD of Italy to produce solid propellant for 
Ariane 5 boosters.  They are using Butalane, a composite propellant made 
of aluminum and ammonium perchlorate.  It delivers a specific impulse of 
244 s (French standard), which is similar  to  the  performance  of  the
space  shuttle's  boosters.   SNPE  recently   expanded   its   ammonium
perchlorate manufacturing facility in Toulouse to  increase  its  annual
production form 800 tons to 6000 tons,  which  is  half  the  production
capacity of existing  U.S.  facilities.   The  Toulouse  plant  will  be
activated in July, according to  Claude  Grosmire,  SNPE's  director  of
space propulsion.  

SNPE  and  BPD  have  formed  a  new  company  called  Eupera  (European
Perchlorate Ammonium) to coproduce the chemical agent in Toulouse.   The
companies previously established a joint venture called Regulus to build 
and operate a manufacturing plant in Kourou for the two largest segments 
of the Ariane 5 boosters.  The "Usine de Propergol  de  Guyane"  (Guiana
propellant plant) will be  inaugurated  later  this  year.   The  highly
automated plant will have only 150 workers.  

Based on a launch rate of eight rockets per year, production for  Ariane
5 will amount to 3800 tons by 1998 and is expected to continue until the 
year 2015.  According to Mr. Dumas, this represents an  annual  turnover
of more than $60 million for Regulus.  

SNPE  is  also  investigating  new  chemical  molecules   for   advanced
propellants.  One of the most promising is a polyazido-glycidyl known as 


                           9





PAG.  An energetic binder is used instead of conventional  polybutadiene
to achieve better performance in terms of specific  impulse.   PAG  will
enable the development of  nonpolluting  propellants  (without  ammonium
perchlorate) for booster applications.  

ARIANESPACE MARKETS LAUNCHERS WORLDWIDE

Arianespace is celebrating its tenth anniversary in 1990.   The  company
was founded in March 1980 by 36 leading European  manufacturers  in  the
aerospace and electronics sectors together with 13 major European  banks
and CNES.  It was the first private company set up to fund, manufacture, 
market, and launch large commercial rockets.  In  1982,  a  fully  owned
subsidiary, Arianespace Inc., was established  in  Washington,  D.C.  to
deal with American customers.  

Arianespace has  captured  more  than  half  of  the  world  market  for
commercial launches.  In addition to nine initial  contracts  signed  by
ESA, Arianespace has logged 83 launch contracts with nearly 30 customers 
worldwide.  Six American companies -- GE, GTE, Spacenet,  Alpha-Lyracon,
Hughes Communications,  GE  Astro  Space  Division,  and  the  Satellite
Transponder  Leasing  Company  --   as   well   as   two   international
organizations -- Intelsat and Inmarsat -- have entrusted their  precious
communications satellites to the European rocket.  Global sales over the 
past decade  exceed  $4.7  billion  for  the  83  satellites  booked  by
Arianespace, of which 54 have been launched.  With the signing  of  nine
new contracts since the beginning of  the  year,  the  company  now  has
orders for 38 satellite launches, representing $2.8  billion  in  sales.
Last year, the company's total sales were $640 million.  

This success is due in part to the pragmatic approach taken by  Ariane's
promoters, who decided in the early  1970s  that  the  best  rocket  for
commercial operations would be one of conventional design, optimized not 
to achieve the  highest  expected  performance  but  rather  the  lowest
possible cost.  

The Ariane 1 made its maiden flight in 1979.   Since  then,  Arianespace
has successfully flown improved versions including  the  new  Ariane  4,
which will be the company's workhorse for the remainder of  the  decade.
The most powerful of  the  series,  Ariane  4  enables  single  or  dual
launches of payloads totaling up to 4.4 tons in  geostationary  transfer
orbit.  

Among the 36 Ariane rockets flown  during  the  past  decade  are  eight
Ariane 4s.  The eighth one failed  during  the  last  Ariane  launch  in
February (flight V36).  Tighter quality controls have been introduced at 
industrial levels to prevent the recurrence of such a problem.  Launches 
will resume in late July or  August,  according  to  Frederic  d'Allest,
Arianespace chairman.  To make  up  for  the  lost  time,  nine  flights
instead of seven or eight are planned for coming years.  

Last year, Arianespace awarded contracts to European industry to produce 
50 Ariane 4s -- the largest single order  for  commercial  rockets  ever
issued.  While fulfilling this order, the European space  industry  will
also be preparing the follow-on rocket, Ariane 5.  First flights of  the
more powerful rocket are planned for 1995 and it should  be  operational
for commercial satellite launches the following year.  

Weighing 740 tons at lift-off, Ariane 5  will  have  a  payload-carrying


                           10





capacity of 5.9 or 6.8 tons for dual or single launches in geostationary 
transfer orbit and  a  maximum  of  23  tons  in  low-Earth  orbit  when
launching the Hermes spaceplane.  Arianespace will commercially  operate
Ariane 5 and is also a candidate to operate Hermes  following  its  test
flights in automatic and manned modes, scheduled for 1998-99.  

CLS ARGOS OFFERS LOW-COST DATA COLLECTION SYSTEM

CLS Argos markets a simple, low-cost data collection  system  consisting
of specialized electronic packages developed by  French  industry  which
are installed on board NOAA weather  satellites  in  polar  orbit.   The
system can locate transmitting beacons on the ground or at sea  with  an
accuracy  of  300  m.   Throughout  its  orbital  track,  the  satellite
automatically  receives  the  platforms  in  its  field  of  visibility,
collects the data, and sends it back to a CLS data  processing  facility
in Toulouse, Melbourne, or Washington, D.C.  A fourth processing  center
will soon be opened in Tokyo.  CLS headquarters in Toulouse is linked by 
computer lines to the overseas centers and to its  two  subsidiaries  in
the United States: Service Argos Inc., which  operates  the  system  for
North American users, and North American CLS, which develops value-added 
products to complement the service.  

More than 3000 Argos platforms are now in service worldwide.  Initially, 
the system was dedicated to environmental survey applications,  but  has
recently been extended to the field  of  environmental  protection.   As
part of a U.S. initiative to control fishing campaigns in  the  Pacific,
Argos has been selected to equip more than 700 fishing boats from Japan, 
Korea, and Taiwan.  "The most important use of the Argos  system  is  to
protect ocean resources," said Michel Taillade, president of CLS Argos.  

Earlier this year, CLS Argos signed  an  agreement  with  Eumetsat,  the
European weather satellite organization, to provide  a  data  collection
service  on   Meteosat   spacecraft.    This   service,   dedicated   to
environmental applications, will begin in October.  Next year, CLS  will
provide the same service using the GOES series of geostationary  weather
satellites operated by NOAA.  

CLS Argos also operates the  control  center  receiving  radar-altimetry
data from Doris, the French orbitography  satellite  system,  which  was
introduced on the SPOT 2 satellite launched earlier this year.  

"We foresee continued growth  in  CLS  activities  at  least  five  more
years," said Michel Cazenave, CLS Argos chairman.  The company  achieved
a turnover of $10.5 million last year  and  is  expected  to  reach  $12
million in  1990.   Areas  of  potential  growth  include  oceanography,
meteorology, hydrology, and wild animal tracking.  Last year the  system
was used  to  track  albatross.   The  birds  were  equipped  with  tiny
transmitters  and  released.   The  satellite  tracking  revealed   that
albatross can fly for amazingly long stretches approaching 16,000 km.  

SPOT IMAGE: COMMERCIALIZING REMOTE SENSING DATA

SPOT Image sells remote sensing data collected by  the  SPOT  family  of
observation satellites.  Two SPOT satellites are now in  orbit,  working
in parallel to obtain visible and near-infrared  images  of  the  Earth.
Each  spacecraft  is  equipped  with  two   CCD   cameras   to   capture
multispectral and panchromatic pictures at  resolutions  of  20  and  10
meters.  These high-resolution digital images are easily  processed  and


                           11





enhanced.  

The SPOT 1 satellite, launched in February 1986 with an  expected  three
year lifetime, has lasted over  four  years.   This  fall,  it  will  be
replaced by the SPOT 2 satellite launched by  Ariane  in  January.   The
second craft is a carbon copy of the first, as is  the  next  satellite,
SPOT 3, which should be ready for launch in 1992.  SPOT 4,  an  improved
version with a four-year design life and an additional midinfrared band, 
is in the early stages of development.  It will replace SPOT 3 when that 
satellite can  no  longer  function.   "We'll  be  able  to  provide  an
uninterrupted flow of data into the next century," said Gerard  Brachet,
chairman of SPOT Image.  

Last year, SPOT Image achieved sales of $23 million and should reach $26 
million in 1990.  Twenty percent of its market is in the United  States,
where it  has  established  a  fully  owned  subsidiary  called  SICorp.
According to Brachet, the company's U.S. sales are expected to  increase
by 25 percent in 1990.  One reason is  the  $4.7  million  contract  the
Department of Defense recently awarded to SICorp  for  the  delivery  of
several thousand SPOT scenes, mostly 10 m raw data, by late  1991.   The
data will be processed  by  the  Defense  Mapping  Agency  and  used  in
preparing the flight missions of USAF Tactical Air Command pilots.  

Thirty percent of SICorp's customers are  government  agencies  and  the
other 70 percent private users  and  state  organizations  such  as  the
Florida Department of  Planning  and  the  Oregon  Department  of  Water
Resources.  SPOT  data  is  used  in  such  diverse  areas  as  mapping,
petroleum,  and  mineral  exploration,  crop  analysis,  hydrology,  and
hazardous waste monitoring.  

SICorp  recently  introduced  a  product  called  Quadmap.   It   is   a
"spatiocarte," a map developed from  satellite  data  at  the  scale  of
1/24,000 degrees which is compatible with maps  provided  by  the  USGS.
SICorp has already received an order for several hundred  Quadmaps  from
the U.S. National Forest Service.  

The company's next  product  will  be  a  "1AP"  film  for  analog  data
processing machines used by photogrammetry services  to  exploit  stereo
images from SPOT.  It also plans to introduce a set of  spatiocartes  at
scales of 1/50,000 degrees.  With these enhanced  products,  SPOT  Image
hopes to lure customers from the aerial photography market.  "Our  major
competitor is not Landsat but aerial photography," Brachet said.  

NOVESPACE, A TEAM OF SKILLED CONSULTANTS

Novespace is the first private company created to put  space  technology
to profitable use in other economic sectors, and to promote the  use  of
space microgravity by industry.  Established four years  ago  under  the
impetus of CNES and eight banks, Novespace is  directed  by  Jean-Pierre
Fouquet, who previously worked in this  line  with  Aerospatiale,  after
spending time as scientific attache for  space  affairs  at  the  French
Embassy in Washington, D.C.  

Novespace has assembled a team of highly skilled  consultants  that  can
solve problems as diverse as  finding  French  partners  for  interested
foreign firms (and vice versa), conducting feasibility or market studies 
in high-tech fields, or  performing  product  opportunity  analyses  for
microgravity research.  This multifaceted  approach  has  proven  highly


                           12





attractive to clients in Europe and Japan.  

The company  publishes  a  magazine  called  "Mutations"  that  presents
innovative technologies available for transfer.  It is distributed  free
of charge to 20,000 readers, including 15,000 in France and 5000 in  the
rest of Europe, the United States, and  Japan.   Novespace  acts  as  an
intermediary, bringing  together  technology  developers  and  potential
users and following through on the transfer as they evolve toward  their
final legal, financial, and technical status.  

In the microgravity arena, Novespace  is  again  taking  a  multifaceted
approach,  ranging  from  promotion  and  consulting  to  actual  system
operation.  To make non-aerospace companies aware  of  the  benefits  of
experiments conducted in weightlessness, Novespace publishes a bimonthly 
newsletter  in  French,  "Mutations  Microgravite,"  which  reports   on
worldwide activities in this field.  

Since raising awareness is only the first step, Novespace also  proposes
case studies and various experimental opportunities,  encompassing  drop
towers, experiments on board the space shuttle and  Mir  space  station,
and parabolic flights.  

Novespace was named exclusive commercial operator for parabolic  flights
on a Caravelle aircraft converted by  CNES  for  low-G  experimentation.
This facility has been used by French, German, and Japanese clients  for
more than a year.  


                  FRENCH BOOST TO FAIRCHILD SPACE

Fairchild Space is the well known manufacturer  of  Explorer  satellites
and  multi-mission  modular  spacecraft  for  NASA.   One  of  its   top
achievements is the Topex oceanography  satellite,  which  will  be  the
first NASA satellite launched  by  an  Ariane  rocket.   Fairchild  also
develops  deployable  masts,  louvers,   and   other   electromechanical
components for satellites.  

The company is highly skilled in  electronics.   It  has,  for  example,
developed a solid-sate mass memory  called  N-chip  which  is  based  on
three-dimensional  VLSI.   This  "technological  jewel"  could   replace
magnetic tape  recorders  on  satellites  within  two  to  three  years,
according to Mr. Goumy.  

Fairchild  recently  was  awarded  two  classified  contracts  from  the
Department of Defense and has been selected along with another  American
firm for definition studies of  the  new  scientific  satellite  Gravity
Probe B.  Fairchild is also competing for  the  Orbital  Solar  Lab  and
looking for a role in the space station Freedom program.  

The company is proud to have been chosen for the on-orbit  servicing  of
the Hubble Space Telescope.  Fairchild first demonstrated its capability 
for repair-in-space when  it  provided  the  tools  and  techniques  for
repairing the Solar Max satellite.  To maintain the Space Telescope over 
its 15-year life-time, Fairchild has developed over 100 different  tools
and devices, including a battery-powered screw.  

"Fairchild's new goals are  to  participate  in  the  follow-on  Landsat
project and in the next generation of  weather  satellites.   Tiros  and


                           13





DMSP, as well as the Mission  To  Planet  Earth  Program,"  Goumy  said.
Matra's input will be crucial to Fairchild's participation in the  Earth
survey  program.   The  French  company  has  extensive  experience   in
developing  platforms,  sensors,  and   complete   systems   for   Earth
observation satellites.  It is now constructing a large  polar  platform
called SPOT Mk2 for ESA's Columbus  program.   Equivalent  to  the  U.S.
platform being developed for the EOS program, Matra's platform should be 
suited for Mission To Planet Earth applications.  

"The production of small satellites for civil and military  applications
is another area where Fairchild could benefit  from  Matra's  know-how,"
said Goumy.  Such spacecraft, weighing only  a  few  hundred  kilograms,
could  be  used  for  scientific  experiments,  environmental   surveys,
pollution monitoring, communications  links,  and  a  variety  of  other
applications.  MMS and Fairchild Space plan to submit a proposal  for  a
worldwide mobile communications system based on a  constellation  of  24
small satellites in low-Earth orbit.   The  project  will  compete  with
similar ventures such as Orbcomm and Starnet.  


         SOTEREM: PIONEERING THE MICROGRAVITY BUSINESS

Soterem is a good example of a successful small enterprise in aerospace. 
The company was started 15 years ago with only ten  people  and  $20,000
capital.  Last year, it achieved sales of $6.5 million with a  staff  of
56.  

The  company  serves  as  a  design,  engineering,   and   manufacturing
subcontractor in the automotive,  nuclear,  and  space  industries.   In
addition to space kits, it has developed such innovative products  as  a
programmable electronic gearbox used to synchronize electronic motors, a 
2D-vision recognition system, and a water-jet cutting machine that works 
at high pressures to cut composite sheets for printed circuit boards.  

Space activities account for 40  percent  of  Soterem's  business.   The
company produces satellite integration dollies, solar  panel  deployment
mechanisms, specialized battery chargers, and ground  support  equipment
for French satellites.  It also  manufactures  pedestal  structures  and
servo-positioning mechanisms for ground  tracking  antennas.   Moreover,
Soterem has extensive experience in  developing  sample  cartridges  and
space furnaces for materials processing  in  zero  gravity.   Its  major
achievements in this area include:  

o  CPF (Crystal Pulling  Furnace),  a  three-zone  furnace  designed  to
achieve pulling speeds of 10^4 to 10^3 cm/sec, up to 1200 degrees C with 
a thermal gradient of 30 degrees C/cm.  CNES will  use  the  furnace  to
investigate thermo-solutal convection under microgravity conditions.  

o  AGHF (Advanced Gradient Heating Facility),  a  Bridgman-type  furnace
for  directional  solidification  of  metals   and   semiconductors   in
weightlessness.  The AGHF works at temperatures up  to  1400  degrees  C
with a thermal gradient of more than 140 degrees C/cm.  

o   MZF  (Multi-Zone  Furnace),  used  for  vapor-phase  crystal  growth
experiments.  The facility has three independent isothermal zones heated 
by sodium fluid circulating in pencil-like heat pipes.  Four  MZFs  will
be installed in the MFA (Multi-Furnace Assembly) of Eureca, the European 
Retrievable Carrier slated for launch aboard the space shuttle in 1991.  


                           14






o   Mephisto,  a   sophisticated   facility   for   studying   materials
solidification in zero gravity.  It can achieve a high thermal  gradient
up to 500 degrees C/cm and solidification rates from 5.10^-2 to  5.10^-5
cm/sec.  Soterem built  the  mechanical  and  thermal  elements  of  the
furnace, designed by CNES and CEA (the French Atomic Energy  Agency)  as
part of a cooperative program with NASA.  Mephisto is  planned  for  six
flights on the space shuttle with the IML 2.  

In 1988, Soterem was selected to  develop  the  Large  Primate  Facility
designed to accommodate two Rhesus monkeys for up to 18 days  in  space.
The facility is to be delivered within two years to fly on  the  shuttle
as part of the CNES-NASA cooperative venture.  

The contracts for the primate facility  and  Mephisto  are  the  largest
Soterem has received to date.  Each is worth  more  than  $1.7  million.
"We now expect to address larger  contracts  and  find  other  customers
abroad,"  said  John  Williams,  Soterem's  project  manager  for  space
activities.  Target areas include Asia, the Soviet Union, and the United 
States.  








































                           15





 