

			BASTARD SYSTEM MANAGER FROM HELL

I get into my office and it's my first day - I want to make a good impression,
so I empty my IN tray into the bin.  Now that's what I call efficient!

I get a call from the big boss - he's been getting complaints about the trainee
bastard operator from hell.  I ask him to forward all the complaints to me and
that it would be best to let me deal with them.  I ring the operator and get
him to make an appointment with me.

Two weeks later, he does, and I show him the complaints that have accumulated
so far.

"Seventy Three complaints in your first three weeks!" I shout "It's good - but
it's NOT Good Enough!  You should be getting at least 10 complaints a day - AT
LEAST!   Now, let's see what you're doing wrong: 
You get a call from a user - what do you do?"

"Kill them off?" The TBOFH replies

"NO!  How can you kill them off if you don't know their USERNAME?  Your
FIRST priority is to get their username.  Then what would you do?"

"Kill them off?"

"NO!  Get them to tell you what their problem is!"

"Why?"

"Because later I can say they didn't explain their problem to you properly.
It's a great defence - works every time.  A user rings me up to complain; I
listen to their problem, then say "OH, WHEN YOU SAID `MY PC DOESN'T WORK'
HE MUST HAVE THOUGHT YOU MEANT `HOW CAN I MAKE MY PC NEVER WORK AGAIN AND
DESTROY MY LIFE'S WORK AT THE SAME TIME?' - IT HAPPENS ALL THE TIME!'  then
they tell me implausible that is, I say how terribly sorry we are, then
fake some connect and CPU time records so their monthly bill is about the
same as the Uraguayan national debt.  
So, after you've heard their problem,  what do you do?"

"Kill them off?"

"NO!  Then you make up some excuse.  Have you got an excuse card calendar?"

"Uh.  No.."

"And you said you were qualified to operate a computer!  You'd better have
mine."  I pass my computer card calendar over,  flipping it to page one -
"ENTROPY".......  ...I like it.
"Now, you give the cretin an excuse then what do you do?"

"Kill them off?"

"YES!"  (He certainly has a fixation)  "Then what?"

"Hang up?"

"NO!  Then they'll call you back when the problem recurs.  Your job is to
make them FEAR calling you.  How can you work when people are calling?  So,
you make them pay for calling in the first place.  What would you do?"

"Delete their files?"

"Yeah, it's a start, but then they may call back when they get new files.
You want them NEVER to call back.  What could you do?"

"Swear at them?"

"No.  I can see we'll have to demonstrate.  Have you got a metal ballpoint?"

"Yes"

"See that wallsocket over there.   Take the refill out of the pen and poke
in into the wallsocket."

"But it's live!"

"Would I really make you do it if it were live?"

"Oh"  >fiddle< >fiddle<   >BZZZZZZZEEEEERT!<

of course I would.   He was no good anyway.
-- 


