The 30 Commandments of BBSing.

様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様
                          The 30 Commandments of BBSing                        
様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様

It has finally happened. Some very intelligent SysOp gave some great thought
as to how a BBS should be operated and came up with these Commandments. We
would be very remiss if We kept these from you, so here they are:

    1. Thou shalt love thy BBS with all thy heart and all thy bytes.
    2. Thou shalt remember thy name and thy password.
    3. Thou shalt not POST IN ALL CAPS!
    4. Thou shalt use your real name when required.
    5. Thou shalt call a BBS no more than three times a day.
    6. Honor thy SysOp.
    7. Thou shalt not covet they neighbor's password, nor his or her
       real name, computer, software, nor any other thing belonging to
       him or her.
    8. Thou shalt not post messages that are stupid, worthless, or
       have no meaning.
    9. Thou shalt use the English language properly.
   10. Thou shalt spell thy words correctly.
   11. Thou shalt delete thine own mail.
   12. Thou shalt delete thine olden messages.
   13. Thou shalt help others users.
   14. Thou shalt not post anonymously when offering criticism.
   15. Thou shalt keep thy extremely foul language to thyself.
   16. Thou shalt not occupy thy BBS with thine arguments, for
       verily, I say unto thee that thou shalt maketh a fool of
       thyself.
   17. Woe be unto the user who attempt to crash thy BBS, for he or
       she shalt be cast out from the sanctuary of thy hobby and
       must repent by doing 40 days and 40 nights of penance in
       voice-only communications.
   18. Thou shalt first dial BBS number during the day by way of
       voice line to assure the correct number.
   19. Thou shalt not post other users' real names.
   20. Thou shalt not post messages while drunk.
   21. Thou shalt confine thy messages to those of friendship,
       requests for assistance, aid to the needy, advice, and
       advancement of thy hobby; and thou art obligated to repel any
       who wouldst transgress upon those commandments.
   22. If thou doth promise to reply to a message and thou doth not,
       then surely thou shalt spill coffee into thy keyboard and
       burn out thy central processing chip.
   23. Thou shalt not giveth any false information when applying for
       membership to  thy BBS, for verily it is written that
       whosoever shall do so will surely be found out and thy
       welcome on all boards will be thus denied forever and ever.
   24. Thou shalt log on properly and in accordance with the SysOp's
       rules.
   25. Thou shalt observe BBS time limits.
   26. Thou shalt not upload "worm" or "virus" programs.
   27. Thou shalt not ask stupid questions that are already fully
       explained in the BBS instructions.
   28. Thou shalt not exchange copyrighted software thru the BBS.
   29. Thou shalt not violate applicable state/federal/local laws
       and regulations affecting BBS telecommunications, or thy will
       face the wrath of the judicial system.
   30. Thou shalt not hack.

様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様
Downloaded from: The Beaker Bulletin Board System            General Bulletins
様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様様
