A little humor...  Hope no one's offended...

  (LA, California) Mattel announces their new line of Barbie products, the
  "Hacker Barbie." These new dolls will be released next month.  The aim of
  these dolls is to revert the stereotype that women are numerophobic,
  computer-illiterate, and academically challenged.

  This new line of Barbie dolls comes equipped with Barbie's very own
  xterminal and UNIX documentation as well as ORA's "In a Nutshell" series.
  The Barbie is robed in a dirty button-up shirt and a pair of worn-out jeans
  with Casio all-purpose watches and thick glasses that can set ants on fire.
  Pocket protectors and HP calculators optional.  The new Barbie has the
  incredible ability to stare at the screen without blinking her eyes and to
  go without eating or drinking for 12 hours straight. Her vocabulary mainly
  consists of technical terms such as "IP address," "TCP/IP," "kernel,"
  "NP-complete," and "Alpha AXP's."

  "We are very excited about this product," said John Olson, Marketing
  Executive, "and we hope that the Hacker Barbie will offset the damage
  incurred by the mathophobic Barbie." A year ago, Mattel released Barbie
  dolls that say, "Math is hard," with condescending companion Ken.  The
  Hacker Barbie's Ken is an incompetent consultant who frequently asks Barbie
  for help.

  The leading feminists are equally excited about this new line of Barbie
  dolls. Naomi Wolf says, "I believe that these new dolls will finally
  terminate the notion that women are inherently inferior when it comes to
  mathematics and the sciences. However, I feel that Ken's hierarchical
  superiority would simply reinforce the patriarchy and oppress the masses."
  Mattel made no comment.

  Parents, however, are worried that they would become technologically behind
  by comparison to the children when the Hacker Barbie comes out.  "My
  daughter Jenny plays with the prototype Hacker Barbie over yonder for two
  days," says Mrs. Mary Carlson of Oxford, Mississippi, "and as y'all know, she
  now pays my credit card bill. Ain't got no idea how she duz it, but she surely
  duz it.  I jus don't wanna be looked upon as a dumb mama." Mattel will be
  offering free training courses for those who purchase the Hacker Barbie.

  The future Hacker Barbie will include several variations to deal with the
  complex aspects of Barbie. "Hacker Barbie Goes to Jail" will teach computer
  ethics to youngsters, while "BARB1E R1TES L1KE B1FF!!!" will serve as an
  introduction to expository writing.
