1) Have you ever crashed the server?
   More than once in a day? 
   On purpose?

2) Have you ever accidently deleted a *LARGE* amount of data from your 
   company's database using query?
   Did you recover it?
   Would it have been quicker to retype it all in instead?

3) Ever format the wrong disk?
   Was this other disk important?
   Did the owner want to kill you?
   Were you able to unformat it successfully?
   Did the owner then treat you like a god?
   Do you thrive on being treated like a god?

4) Ever just walk into a room to troubleshoot a computer and "the 
   problem" mysteriously goes away?
   Does this happen all the time?
   Do the lights dim when you enter?

5) Do you use more than one operating system on your computer?
   More than three?
   More than five?
   Do you use just one, but it's one you wrote yourself?

6) Do you know more programming languages than presidents?
   Do you read computer magazines?
   Do you admit it?

7) Ever lied to your boss about having a current backup of the company 
   database?
   Did he believe you?
   Do you have a current backup right now?
   Do you have *any* backups?

8) Have you ever lost power to the server because your UPS died?
   Did it crash a critical application?
   Did you explain the irony to your boss?
   Did he think it was funny?

9) Ever reverse engineer a program?
   Did it work after?
   Did you do it to get rid of those pesky "Not Registered" shareware 
   messages?
   Did you put your own name in there to make it *look* like you were 
   registered?

10) Do you make your own cables?
    Do they work?
    Have you ever wondered why anyone would *buy* a serial cable?
    Have you ever strung 5 or more converters/tranceivers together to 
    make a cable do something it was never intended?

11) Have you ever told a newbie that the "any" key is the big switch 
    labled "1/0"?
    Did you deny it when confronted by your boss?

12) Ever set up a "God" account so you could send system messages to 
    newbies that say "Message from God:..."
    Did the newbie then run to your office and say "Come quick! Look at 
    this!"?
    Do you do this regularly?
    Has anyone figured it out yet?
