                            TEST FOR SYSTEM ANALYSTS 
          
INSTRUCTIONS: 
         Read each question carefully. Answer all questions. Time limit:  
         4 hours. Begin immediately. 
HISTORY: 
         Describe the history of papacy from its origins to the  present  
         day,  concentrating  especially,  but not exclusively,  on  its  
         social,   political,  economic,  religious,  and  philosophical  
         impact on Europe, Asia, America and Africa.  Be brief, concice,  
         and specific. 
MEDICINE: 
         You  have been provided with a razor blade,  a piece of  gauze,  
         and  a bottle of Scotch.  Remove your appendix.  Do not  suture  
         until your work has been inspected. You have fifteen minutes. 
PUBLIC SPEAKING: 
         2500  riot-crazed aborigines are storming the classroom.   Calm  
         them.  You may use any ancient language except Latin and Greek. 
BIOLOGY: 
         Create  life.   Estimate  the differences in  subsequent  human  
         culture  if  this form of life had developed 500 million  years  
         earlier,  with special attention to its probable effect on  the  
         English parliamentary system.  Prove your thesis. 
MUSIC: 
         Write a piano concerto.   Orchestrate and perform it with flute  
         and drum.  You will find a piano under your seat. 
PSYCHOLOGY: 
         Based on your knowledge of their works,  evaluate the emotional  
         stability,  degree of adjustment, and repressed frustrations of  
         each  of the following:  Alexander of Aphrodiasis,  Ramses  II,  
         Gregory  of  Nicia,  Hammurabi.   Support your evaluation  with  
         quotations from each man's work, making appropriate references.  
         It is not necessary to translate. 
SOCIOLOGY: 
         Estimate  the sociological problems which might  accompany  the  
         end of the world.  Construct an experiment to test your theory. 
ENGINEERING: 
         The disassembled parts of a high-powered rifle have been placed  
         on your desk. You will also find an instruction manual, printed  
         in  Swahili.  In  10  minutes a hungry  Bengal  tiger  will  be  
         admitted   to   the  room.   Take  whatever  action  you   feel  
         appropriate.  Be prepared to justify your decision. 
ECONOMICS: 
         Develop  a  realistic plan for refinancing the  national  debt.   
         Trace the possible effects of your plan in the following areas:  
         Cubism,  the  Donatist controversy,  the wave theory of  light.   
         Outline a method for preventing these effects.   Criticize this  
         method  from all all possible points of view.   Point  out  the  
         deficiencies  in  your point of view,  as demonstrated in  your  
         answer to the last question. 
POLITICAL SCIENCE: 
         There  is a red telephone on the desk beside you.  Start  World  
         War  III.  Report at length on its socio-political  effects  if  
         any. 
EPISTEMOLOGY: 
         Take  a  position for or against truth.  Prove the validity  of  
         your stand. 
PHYSICS: 
         Explain  the  nature  of matter.  Include  in  your  answer  an  
         evaluation  of the impact of the developement of mathematics on  
         science. 
PHILOSOPHY: 
         Sketch  the  developement  of  human  thought,   estimate   its  
         significance.  Compare  with the developement of any other kind  
         of thought. 
GENERAL KNOWLEGDE: 
         Describe in detail.  Be objective and specific. 
