The following memo recently came across my desk for general distribution,
and was provided by the IBM publications dept., P.O.Box 12195-E02, Research
Triangle Park, NC, 22709.

SUBJECT: NEW OPERATING SYSTEM FOR IBM
MAINFRAMES.

Because So many users have asked for an Operating System of even greater
capability than VM, IBM announces the "Virtual Universe Operating System".

Running under OS/VU, the individual user appears to have not merely a machine
of their own, but an entire universe of their own, in which they can set up,
and take down their own programs, data sets, system networks, planets and even
solar systems.  The user need only specify the universe desired, and the OS/VU
system generation program(IEHGOD) does the rest.  This utility will reside in
the library named "SYS1.GODLIB".  Optimum performance for this function is six
days of execution and one day of overhead.  In conjunction with OS/VU, all
system facilities will be replaced by one utility (EHPROPHET) which will
reside in the library names "SYS1.MESSIAH".  This utility has no parms or
control cards as it naturally knows what you want it to do when it is
executed.

Naturally the user must have attained a certain degree of sophistication in the
data processing field if efficient utilization of OS/VU is to be achieved.
Frequent calls to non-resident galaxies, for instance, can lead to unexpected
delays in task execution.  Although IBM, through its wholly-owned subsidiary,
the United States of America, has embarked upon a program to upgrade the speed
of light and thus reduce the overhead of extrasolar and metadimensional
pagination, users must, at present, be careful to stay within the bounds of the
laws of physics.  IBM will charge a fee for any infractions.

OS/VU will operate upon any IBM x0xx sytem possessing the Extended WARP Option.

Users should be aware that IBM plans to migrate all existing systems and
hardware to OS/VU as soon as their engineers effect an one output that is
(conceptually) error-free.  This will yield a base to develop an even more
powerful operating system, designated "Virtual Reality".  OS/VR is planned to
enable the user to migrate to totally unreal universes.  To aid the user in
identifying the difference between a "virtual reality" and "REALITY", a file
consisting of a linear arrangement of multi-sensory total records, or
successive moments of "now" will be established, and reside in the data set
labeled "SYS1.est".');
200 N81N         ......................... ... ...-....