ADVENTURELAND
-------------

Here you stand in a forest, about to start your adventure. Move along East,
and tiptoe past the sleeping dragon. Go East again to the lake. Get the axe
(leave the fish for now, since you have no way of getting them yet), then head
North into the quicksand bog. Pick up the blue ox (WOW! A treasure already!),
then say the magic word on the axe. Gee, where did everything go? Well, look
at it this way: at least you can "Swim" back to the lake.

Now go South to the bottomless hole. Carefully "Go Hole," and pick up the
flint and steel. Go up (easy, it's a long way down!). Then it's West into the
swamp, and West again to the hidden grove. Surprise! There's the axe and the
ox, along with another treasure. Get everthing, and go back East. Climb the
tree, get the keys, and climb down again. Now, "Chop Tree." Drop the axe (you
won't need it again), get the mud, then, "Go Stump." Once inside the stump,
drop the mud, ox and fruit. Go down to the root chamber, pick up the rubies,
then go up and drop them off. Easy, isn't it?

Okay, time for more treasures. Get the lamp and rub it twice. Each time you
rub the lamp, a genie appears and leaves a treasure. Just make sure you don't
rub it more than two times, or the genie will come out and *TAKE AWAY* a
treasure! (Can't win the game that way!) Now, go down into the root chamber,
and "Go Hole." Open the door and drop the keys. Light the lamp (it's dark up
ahead), and "Go Hall." Then continue down to the cavern. From the cavern, trek
South and pick up the bladder. Now it's time for a return trip, so move along
North, then up until you're out of the stump and back in the swamp again (by
the way, any time the chiggers chomp on you, just get the mud, then drop it
again. Also, "Unlight Lamp" when you get back to the root chamber... energy
conservation helps!). "Get Gas," then "Go Stump."

Now head back down to the cavern (remember to light the lamp before going into
the hallway!), then go South and up.  Drop the bladder and "Ignite Gas."
*BOOOOM!* You just blew a hole in the bricked-up window. "Go Hole," then jump
(don't worry, you can make it to the other side safely). Ummmm, hello, bear!
Well, he doesn't look too mean, but it's better not to take any chances, so
"Yell." As the startled bear falls down towards the bottom of the chasm, pick
up the magic mirror (carefully, it's *VERY* fragile!), then "Go Throne." Grab
the crown and go West to the ledge. Jump over again, then West. Pick up the
fire bricks on your way out (heavy stuff, but you'll be needing them soon),
and go down and North. After that, make your way up again to the treasure room
in the stump.

Drop off *ONLY* the crown. *DO NOT* drop the mirror! Okay, now get the bottle
of water, and go down again.  This time, drop the flint just before you go
into the hallway. Go down to the cavern, and from there, down again into the
maze of pits. From the "Opposite of Light" sign, go down, West, and down. Pick
up the rug, then go down again and you're at the bottom of the chasm. "Build
Dam," then drop the remaining bricks (you had a few left over). "Look Lava,"
and there's a firestone. It's still pretty hot, so "Pour Water." Now get the
stone and the golden net. Hmmmm, but how to get out of here? Well, that sign
might help. "Say Away" twice and, voila! you're in the meadow again (ahhh!
fresh air!). Unlight the lamp, then go South (to the swamp) and over to the
stump.

Drop the firestone, the rug, and the mirror. Make sure that you drop the rug
*BEFORE* you drop the mirror! (Otherwise, seven years of bad luck and you
won't be able to finish the game!) Now, get out of the stump, go East to the
hole, and North to the lake. "Get Water," then "Get Fish" (can't get them
without the net, you see). Return to the stump, and drop off the fish and the
net, in that order. Pick up the mud, and head back down to the cavern.
Remember to get the flint and light the lamp before entering the hallway! And
getting the rug again may be useful.

Once in the cavern, go North. At this point, you should save the game. Up
ahead are the African bees, which you will need to get rid of the dragon.
Unfortunately, this part of the game seems to be random, and sometimes the
bees will suffocate and die before you can bring them out. So, save the game
here and hope you won't have to restore it too many times! Okay, now that the
game is saved, go North again. Get the honey, pour out the water, and get the
bees. (If the bees sting you, and you find yourself in limbo, either restore
your saved game or "Go Up" to return to life in the outdoors.)

Once you have the bees, instead of going all the way back up to the swamp, say
"Away" twice (remember that you have a fast transportation - the rug), and you
are at the meadow again. If the mud hasn't fallen off yet, drop it here before
going on (the dragon *HATES* the smell of mud, and will most certainly kill
you if you go near her with it -- yes, *HER*!). All right, now "Drop Bees."
The dragon will become annoyed and fly away, leaving behind some precious and
rare eggs. Pick up the eggs, then return to the stump. Drop the eggs and the
honey, then say "Score."

*** YIPPPPEEEE! ***

You did it!! (Whew! You deserve to take some time out now and relax! But
wait... could that be a pirate flag I see on the horizon...?)
