ี004ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ004ธ
ณ                                                                            ณ
ณ                 Trashing (Garbology) - RedBoxChiliPepper                   ณ
ณ                                                                            ณ
ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออต
ณ Written On July 23, 1993                    Last Revision on July 23, 1993 ณ
ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออต
ณ For Informational Purposes Only. We're Not Responsible For Your Stupidity. ณ
ิ004ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ004พ

While it may not seem very appealing to go digging around in grimey dumpsters,
it actually gets some really great results if you know what to look for. In
the past I've gotten phone company "how-to" manuals, newsletters, credit card
receipts, obsecure phone numbers, a whole shitload of phone company personell 
records, and other useful items.

So next time you're bored at night, all the bbses are busy and you have 
nothing better to do, get some old clothes on, grab a flashlight, sneak out of
the house and head for the nearest dumpster. You may be happy with what you
find. Here's some basic information that I feel would be important for the
novice trasher:
                Checklist of What To Bring:              
                     
                   [] Old jeans, old shirt, old shoes, preferably all dark.
                   [] A flashlight or lighter.
                   [] Small gym bag to put items in.
                  
                Checklist of What Not To Bring:

                   [] Your mother or father. (Or any family member)
                   [] Your laptop computer
                   [] A gun and/or ski mask
                   [] A cactus

What To Look For:
----------------
Start from one side of the dumpster and kind of work your way over to the 
other side looking at everything you encounter and for pete's sake, don't 
throw the stuff you don't want out of the dumpster as that might look 
suspicious if a cop drove by. 

Keep your bag by you and try not to bury it in the rubbish. If you're in a
phone company dumpster, you usually don't have to worry about stepping in
anything disgusting since their dumpsters seem to only have paper in them.
Look for anything that appeals to you-- pieces of paper with phone numbers or
passwords written on them, receipts (especially for credit cards), company
records, phone bills, anything that you think you shouldn't have, take it

Where To Trash:
--------------
Trashing can be done just about anywhere and the rewards vary wherever you go.

* Video Stores (Get account information to check out videos with other 
               people's accounts. Also maybe a computer dialup number.)
* Conveinence Stores (Every few months most of them throw away huge boxes
                     of credit card receipts.)
* Cellular Dealerships (Lodes of information.)
* Phone Company Buildings (Endless possibilities.)
* Residents (By stealing your neighbor's trash you can learn a lot about
            them. Handy for blackmail purposes and ruining lives.)

What If...
----------
If a cop somehow sees you in there and asks you to explain yourself, tell him
you're looking for alluminum cans or other recycleable material. If you live
in a more populated area and look scroungy enough, tell him you're homeless
and looking for food. That way you won't have to give any I.D. either. One 
thing I've done a few times is bring a small trash bag of crushed soda cans 
with me to back up my story of looking for aluminum cans.

If you're happily looking through a bunch of secret stuff and the garbage
truck shows up and starts lifting the dumpster in the air, you're basically
fucked. You'll land in the back of his truck and probably be crushed to death
and nobody will ever find your body. This has never happened to me yet, but
I've always been paranoid that it would.

Tips:
----
Bring a friend and a couple of 2-way radios. Have the friend sit somewhere
out of sight and if a cop or anyone comes near the dumpster, he can radio you
to sit tight and shut up until their gone. 

It probably wouldn't be a good idea to go trashing in the middle of the day.
For one thing, employees are constantly comming out to throw trash in the
dumpster and that could get pretty messy for you. Also, you're more likely to
be seen in the daytime. So stick to nights and you should do okay.

Phone companies usually lock their dumpsters. (Go figure) Sometimes it's 
merely a chain and lock over the top of the dumpster which does no good since
you can just jump on the plastic lid and fall right into the dumpster. 
(Getting out is another story.) If you get caught by the wrong cop, he can 
take you in and you could get charged with trespassing so be careful and don't 
get caught. Call 512-370-4680 to contact me, RBCP.

           "Sorry, sir, we were just trying to find some wire for our
            science fair project, but as there appears to be nothing 
            here but coffee grounds and cigarette ashes, we had better
            get going. Have a nice day!"
                                             -Karl Marx

ีออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออธ
ณ  Contact The Phone Losers Of America Nearest You! The P.L.A. Voice Mailbox ณ
ณ  number is 512-370-4680. And PLEASE don't pay for your phone calls.  -RBCP ณ
ิออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออพ

