ี022ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ022ธ
ณ                    The Phone Losers Of America Present                     ณ
ณ                   BBS Back Doors & Flaws - by Pestilence                   ณ
ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออต
ณ Written On  February 17, 1995           Last Revision on February 19, 1995 ณ
ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออต
ณ For Informational Purposes Only. We're Not Responsible For Your Stupidity. ณ
ิ022ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ022พ

Well, this is Pestilence here and I thought I would be nice and produce a file 
on how to hack boards through backdoors etc. First I'd like to thank The 
Cracker, Vision, and The Joker. They gave me most of my knowledge on back doors.

In the course of your BBS career you will come across a dumb ass sysop that for 
some reason or another you just can't stand. Maybe he caught you typing in 
sysop commands, or he dropped your access, or he caught you in bed with his 
wife and you just want to HACK his board. Well this file is for you. I tried to 
include as many doorz as i could remember. Some versions may be too old for the 
doorz and some may be too new so if they dont work email me at (512).fuck.off
and I'll be glad to laugh at you...                                                    
                                                                              
RBBS:                                                             
----
Well, there aren't any known back doors but because of faulty language          
programming there are some flaws....                                          
                                                                              
Bug 1                                                                         
Versions this is known to work on... cpc 12.1c and earlier                    
                                                                              
Proceedure : Download sysops password                                          
                                                                              
The sysops password is contained in a file called rbbs-pc.def....there is a   
trap in the code to prevent you from downloading it. (gee...I wonder why) But 
unfortunetly the basic and dos are not in agreement about the equivilence of 
the strings...basic says rbbs-pc.def <> rbbs-pc.def but dos truncates the last 
charachter and lets you get the file under the new name. (note 'x' can be 
substituted for 'f' in rbbs-pc.de(x), x being whatever you want it to be.)                                              

Fido:                                                             
----
Log on as your real name and tell the sysop all your information then proceed 
to go to the message area...from there do an area command and it will list:                                                                  

-----FIDO------                                                               
1...general                                                                   
2...tech                                                                      
3...fido mail                                                                 
message ?                                                                     
                                                                              
At the message prompt type '333333333' 77  times(no '') and this will lock up 
the system....from there it will usually drop to dos.                    
                                        
Renegade:                                                        
--------
From main menu type // king cott                                              
                                                                              
Also on old versions enter into the bbs and go to the main menu...then turn the 
expert mode on and type 'i' 100 times like 'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii' etc...When at 
100 press enter and this will give you sysop commands.             
                                                                              
WWIV:                                                            
----

This part is for Excallibur since he wants to get back at the sysops in the    
ray league so here you go...                                                 
                                                                              
Go home and make a file called wayne.bell....in this program do the following 
                                                                              
ctty                                                                          
com1   <---- substitute the appropriate comm port...                          
                                                                              
Save it and you're set. Now this only works in registered programs that have  
been registered for over 1 year. The trick lies in the fact that Wayne put a 
double loop in the init files to the modem so that he could log onto bbs using 
his wwiv software. It has to be over 1 year old because newer versions Ymodem 
(that's the protocol you need to use) have incorperated the newer 2.3 string 
emitter to keep other people who found out this trick from it...(I'll tell you 
how to hack the new one in a second) now upload wayne.bell using y modem and 
type the following description....i am god _-_ wwiv*rulez. Got that? After all 
that go back to the main menu and type                  
//chuser                                                                      
//boardedit                                                                   
//dos                                                                         
or whatever and it should work. If not you fucked up or the sysop is using a     
new version of wwiv.                                                       

                                                                              
Secondly....the /optik method lets you view sysop commands from the file menu 
but only in certain editions...I have not been able to verify this method..  
To hack the newer version see PLA001.TXT                                      

Thats all for now. I will adress the following boards in my next edition:      

acid bbs       celerity bbs       robo-fx bbs      vision-x bbs               
vision/2 bbs   oblivian/2 bbs     ....and many others                         

ีอออออออออออออContactอTheอPhoneอLosersอOfอAmericaอNearestอYou!อออออออออออออออธ
ณ  512-370-4680 PLA Voice Mailbox                      And PLEASE Don't Pay  ณ
ณ  512-851-8317 Sonic Youth Systems                    For Your Fone Calls!  ณ   
ณ  512-883-7543 PLA WHQ Texas Line                                           ณ
ณ  618-797-2339 PLA WHQ Illinois Line                                        ณ
ิออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออพ
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
