ี009ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ009ธ
ณ                        The Phone Losers Of America                         ณ
ณ                                 Present                                    ณ
ณ              Jim Bayless's Triumph - By Colleen ChiliPepper                ณ
ฦออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออต
ณ                        Written On November 9, 1994                         ณ
ิ009ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ009พ
This is an actual play that was presented in class. It was awarded an "A+." It 
is not to be confused with reality because we all know that phone company 
security personell never really catch who they're after. If you have any 
questions about this ongoing case, feel free to call Jim Bayless at work. 
(Ameritech Corporate Security) His number is 317-265-2539 or 317-556-4722.

Open, a young man in a telephone booth calling some lady.

BRAD: Hello, this is Jim Bayless from Ameritech Corporate Security and we've
      been having some problems with our voice mail system. I was wondering if
      we could have your code number to help aid us in cleaning up this 
      problem?
MRS. SMITH: What was your name, Tim Bazil? Speghetti sounds good for dinner
            but bazil is a little too strong a spice for me. Do you have any
            garlic?
BRAD: Bayless, ma'am.
MRS.SMITH: No, Mrs. Smith. Now what was it you wanted? Oh yes, my code number
           is 4623. 
BRAD: Thank you very much for your time and cooperation. I will call you
      tomorrow and let you know how this case is going.
MRS. SMITH: Bye now!
BRAD: (After hanging up phone) Ha, ha, ha! I'm gonna get her! (Pauses as he
      dials up her voice mail system and gets into her box) Hi, I'm not here
      right now and neither is Mrs. Smith. The stupid, slimey slug is out
      rolling dog doo doo. Mrs. Smith, you're stupid! I can't believe you just
      gave me your code you stupid retard! Ha ha! [Note: Certain words had to
      be substituted as cussing was not allowed in the classroom.]

                                  NEXT DAY

After listening to her voicemail's outgoing message, Mrs. Smith decides to
call Ameritech Security.

MRS SMITH: I need to speak with Mr. Jim Bayless.
MR. BAYLESS: Yes? Speaking, how can I help you?
MRS. SMITH: My name is Mrs. Smith and this little brat called my work saying
            he was you and convinced me to give him my passcode. Then he 
            called my voicemail and said some very mean stuff. He called me a
            slimey slug in dog doo doo. Then he called me a retard! I want
            this taken care of immediately. I can't even get my messages
            because he changed my passcodes.
MR. BAYLESS: I know who that is, don't worry ma'am. I'll take care of Brad
             Carson, a.k.a. RedBoxChiliPepper!

                               TWO WEEKS LATER

Mr. Bayless tracks Mr. Carson down and calls him.

MR. BAYLESS: Mister, I got you in the hot seat! You have two choices: You can
             stop now and I'll give you a Resses Peanut Butter Cup every day
             that you're good. I know you're a nice person and I have faith in
             you. Or, I'll track you down and make you come work for me until
             you learn to be a good, upstanding citizen.
BRAD: No, Mr. Bayless, anything but a job at the phone company. And you know
      I love Reeses. I'll be good. When's the delivery boy comming over?
MR. BAYLESS: Right now! Chris Tomkinson, go to Phone Phreakers Lane and bring
             RedBoxChiliPepper this Reeses.
CHRIS: (Knocks on telephone booth door & give Brad a reeses.)
BRAD: Boy, oh boy, a Reeses Peanut Butter Cup! (He shoves them in his mouth
      and looks up and Chris is standing with his hand out.)
CHRIS: Tip?
BRAD: I'll give you a tip, don't give out your social security number! (Brad
      slams the telephone booth door in his face.)

ีออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออธ
ณ  Contact The Phone Losers Of America Nearest You! The P.L.A. Voice Mailbox ณ
ณ  number is 512-370-4680. And PLEASE don't pay for your phone calls.  -RBCP ณ
ิออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออพ

