
           PROMOTING JUSTICE: ONE OF THE SEVEN LAWS OF NOAH
 
                       By R. James Scott Trimm
 
 
JUSTICE AND HUMAN GOVERNMENT
 
     Following the great flood G-d made a covenant with Noah
and all of his decendants known as the Noahdic Covenant (see
Gen.  9.) This Noahdic Covenant included what is called in
Judaism "The Seven Laws of Noah."  These are seven laws which
can be drawn from the opening portion of Genesis prior to the
calling out of Abraham and his decendants (the Jews), as a
result these seven Laws apply to all mankind (Jews and
Gentiles.)  These Seven Laws of Noah are:
 
       1. Against idolatry.
       2. Against fornication.
       3. Against murder.
       4. Against blasphemy.
       5. Against theft.
       6. Against eating the limb of a living animal.
       7. To promote justice.
 
The requirement for justice found in this list is derived from
Gen. 9:5-6 where man is commanded to institute capitol
punishment.  Thus man was empowered to establish human
government.  For this reason Dispinsationalist Christians
recognize this as the beginning of what they call "the Age of
Human Government."  In Judaism this justice commandment is
recognized as an obligation on the part of man to establish
courts and governments to enforce the other six laws of Noah.
In this way G-d empowered man to govern himself.
 
FREEWILL AND LIBERTY
 
     Any nation which seeks to govern itself in accordance
with G-d's law, must understand one of G-d's most basic
principles, man's freewill.  The omnipotent G-d has created
man with a freewill.  Man has the awsome power to resist the
omnipotent G-d (see Acts 7:51), this means that G-d himself
will not interfere in man's freewill.
     Since G-d has empowered man to establish government
solely for the purpose of enforcing G-d's Law, and since G-d
himself will not interfere with man's freewill, we may
conclude that man is at liberty where G-d's Law is silent.
The founding fathers of the United States of America
understood this principle of liberty well, as the Declaration
of Independence reads:

     We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are
     created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator
     with certain inalienable rights; that among these are
     life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.  That, to
     secure these rights, governments are instituted among
     men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the
     governed; that whenever any form of government becomes
     destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people
     to alter or to abolish it, and to institute a new
     government...
 
And as the Constitution reads:
 
     We the people of the United States, in order to form a
     more perfect union, ESTABLISH JUSTICE, insure domestic
     tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the
     general welfare, and SECURE THE BLESSINGS OF LIBERTY TO
     OURSELVES AND OUR POSTERITY, do ordain and establish this
     Constitution of the United States of America.
 
Thus the United States of America was originally intended to
govern in accordance with G-d's Law and respect man's G-d
given liberty.
 
THE TRIBULATION, THE ANTICHRIST AND GLOBALISM
 
     Now anyone who apreciates liberty and desires to live in
a government which respects their G-d given liberty should pay
particular heed to a serious threat to liberty.  The New
Scriptures forewarn us of a time at which a lawless dictator
would dominate the entire earth, bringing all the world under
a single rule (see Rev. 13; 2Thes. 2:1-12).  Now you may have
been told that the Church will not endure this tribulation but
read again (2Thes. 2:1-12)  don't believe the "peace and
safty" teachers (see 1Thes. 5:1-4.)
     Now with the very real threat of one world
totalitarianism ending the very liberty which the United
States of America was created to protect, we should take a
much more critical view of "Globalism" and take this threat
very seriously.
 
For more information on government, freedom and Globalism,
just write:
 
The American Republic Agenda Examiner
c/o Other Options
312 Las Brisas
Arlington, TX 76006
 
For more information on the Noahdic Covenant, freewill and the
tribulation write:
 
Nazarene Judaism
PO Box 471
Hurst, TX 76053
