                    The Jesus of Christianity
                               Vs
                     The Jesus of Mormonism

     The Jesus WE KNOW contrasted to the "Jesus" of Mormonism. 
The one true Jesus of the BIBLE, of all eternity God the Son, who 
died that we may have eternal life; who paid the price of all 
sins; who has entered our lives and is walking with us in a 
personal relationship day by day -- is not known in Mormonism. 
The Jesus of Mormonism is an entirely different "Jesus". Let's 
examine what the leaders and prophets - the foundation of the 
Latter Day Saints Church - have said:
     
     "When the time came that His First-Born, the Saviour, should 
come into the world and take a tabernacle, the Father Himself 
came and favored the Spirit with a tabernacle instead of letting 
any other MAN do it. ....  The Saviour was begotten by the Father 
of His spirit, by the same being who is the Father of our 
spirits, and that is all the organic difference between Jesus 
Christ and you and me."  BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 
4:218

     "The fleshly body of Jesus required a Mother as well as a 
Father. Therefore, the Father and Mother of Jesus, according to 
the flesh, must have been associated together in the capacity of 
Husband and Wife; hence the Virgin Mary must have been, for the 
time being, the lawful wife of God the Father." ORSON PRATT, The 
Seer, pg 158

     "Christ was begotten by an immortal Father in the same way 
that mortal men are begotten by mortal fathers --- And Christ was 
born into the world as the Literal Son of this Holy Being; He was 
born in the same personal, real, and literal sense that any 
mortal son is born of a mortal father. There is nothing 
figurative about his paternity; He was begotten, conceived and 
born in the normal and natural course of events, for He is the 
Son of God, and that designation means what it says." BRUCE R. 
McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine, pg 547,742

     Brigham Young, to be consistent with his "Adam-God" 
doctrine, believed Adam was the literal father of Jesus Christ:
     "When the Virgin Mary conceived the child Jesus, the Father 
had begotten him in his own likeness. He was not begotten by the 
Holy Ghost. And who is the Father? He is the first of the human 
family ... Jesus, our elder brother, was begotten in the flesh by 
the same character that was in the Garden of Eden, and who is our 
Father in Heaven." BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 1:50,51

     As is evident in these statements, there is no Virgin Birth 
in Mormonism. On the other hand, the Bible clearly shows us:

Matthew  1:18   Mary with child of the Holy Spirit
         1:20   That which is conceived in her is of the Holy 
                Spirit
         1:23   Behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son
Luke     1:35   The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the
                power of the Most High will overshadow you

     Further, the "Jesus" of Mormonism was married in polygamy 
and had children. This had to be so to be consistent with the 
doctrines of Joseph Smith, Junior. As Joseph reports as a 
"revelation" given him by God on July 12,1843: "I am the Lord thy 
God .. obey the instructions I am about to give unto you .. if ye 
abide not that covenant, then ye are damned; for no one can 
reject this covenant and be permitted to enter my Glory .. verily 
I say unto you, if  man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, 
and by the new and everlasting covenant .. they shall be gods .. 
And again, as pertaining to the law of the priesthood if any man 
espouses a virgin, and desire to espouse another, and the first 
give her consent, and if he espouse the second, and they are 
virgins, and have vowed to no other man, then he is justified .. 
and if he have ten virgins given unto him by the law, he cannot 
commit adultery, for they belong to him." JOSEPH SMITH, Doctrine 
& Covenants, 132:2,3,4,19,20,61,62

     "It will be borne in mind that once on a time, there was a 
marriage in Cana of Galilee, and on a careful reading of that 
transaction, it will be discovered that no less a person than 
Jesus Christ was married on that occasion." ORSON HYDE, Journal 
of Discourses, 13:259
     "How was it with Mary and Martha, and other women that 
followed Him? In old times, and it is common to this day, the 
women, even Sarah, called their husbands 'LORD' .. Jesus was the 
bridegroom at the marriage of Cana of Galilee .. We say it was 
Jesus Christ who was married, to be brought into relation whereby 
he could see his seed, before He was crucified .. I shall say 
here, that before the Saviour died, he looked upon His own 
natural children, as we look upon ours." ORSON HYDE, Journal of 
Discourses, 2:81,82
     
     The Bible states that Jesus is God the Son -- eternally 
existent with God the Father -- yet Mormon doctrine says Jesus 
was a spirit offspring of the Father; that Lucifer was the second 
spirit offspring (THEY WERE BROTHERS?!); followed by billions 
more - or each of us, for instance. We are "brothers" and 
"sisters" of Jesus Christ. Jesus is not the only begotten Son in 
Mormon Theology: "It makes me think of that second person that 
came forth in the heavens when the voice went forth: 'Who will 
redeem the earth, who will go forth and make the sacrifice for 
the earth and all things it contains ?'. The Eldest son said: 
'Here am I'; but he did not say 'send me'. But the second one, 
which was 'Lucifer, Son of the Morning', said, 'Lord, here am I, 
send me, I will redeem every son and daughter of Adam and Eve 
that lives on the earth." BRIGHAM YOUNG, Journal of Discourses, 
13:282
     "The appointment of Jesus to be Saviour of the world was 
contested by one of the other sons of God. He was called Lucifer, 
Son of the Morning .... this spirit brother of Jesus desperately 
tried to become the Saviour of Mankind. MILTON R. HUNTER (First 
Council of 70) The Gospel Through the Ages, pg 15 [1958]
      "Jesus Christ is also of our species .. I have heard 
sectarian priest undertake to tell the character of the Son of 
God, and they make him half of one species and half of another, 
and I could not avoid thinking at once of a mule." BRIGHAM YOUNG, 
Journal of Discourses, 4:217
     "There is no impropriety ... in speaking of Jesus Christ as 
the elder brother of the rest of human kind." JAMES TALMAGE, 
ARTICLES OF FAITH, pg 473

     In Mormonism, Jesus was a created being: "Jesus is man's 
spiritual brother. We dwelt with Him in the spirit world as 
members of that large society of our eldest brother." MILTON R. 
HUNTER, Gospel Through the Ages, pg 21
     "The devil is a spirit son of God who was born in the 
morning of pre-existence." BRUCE R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine, 
"Devil", 1966 edition, pg 192
     "There are three Gods - the Father, Son and Holy Ghost." 
BRUCE R. McCONKIE, Mormon Doctrine,"God", pg 317

     The REAL JESUS, the ONLY Son of God and God the Son, is 
proclaimed throughout the BIBLE! Look up these references and 
tie-ins of Old and New testaments declaring Jesus' Divinity and 
NOT being created:

LOOK UP          and            COMPARE WITH

Psalm 24:10                    I Corinthians 2:8
Psalm 45:6,7                   Hebrews 1:8
Isaiah 8:13                    I Peter 2:8
Isaiah 40:3                    Matthew 3:3
Malachi 3:1                    Matthew 11:10
Psalm 102:27                   Hebrews 13:8
                               James 1:17
Psalm 102:25                   Colossians 1:16
Psalm 102:26                   Matthew 24:35 
                               2 Peter 3:7,10
     
     JOHN 1:1-3,14  "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word 
was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning 
with God. All things were made by Him; and without Him was not 
anything made that was made ... And the Word was made flesh, and 
dwelt among us, (and we beheld His glory, the Glory as of the 
ONLY begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth."
     COLOSSIANS 1:15  "Who is the image of the invisible God, the 
firstborn of every creature" [Here 'firstborn' does not mean 
first 'spirit-child', rather a position of high honor - see verse 
18, Hebrews 12:23, revelation 1:5, and Psalm 89:27]. The next 
verses, 16 and 17, tell us, "For in Him were all things created, 
that are in heaven, and that are on the earth ... All things were 
created by Him, and for Him: And He is before all things, and by 
Him all things consist."
     HEBREWS 1:10  "Thou, Lord (Jesus), in the beginning hast 
laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of 
thine hands."
     In Isaiah 44:24 God tells us that He "stretched forth the 
heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth by myself." Jesus, 
who IS the TRUTH and God the Father "have no lies within them" 
and are INCAPABLE OF TELLING A LIE. Jesus is God the Son, 
eternally One with the Father and the Holy Spirit, and not be 
confused. God the Son is not God the Father and God the father is 
not God the Holy Spirit, but each entity is a part of the ONE 
TRUE AND LIVING GOD.
     ISAIAH 9:6  "For unto us a child is born ... his name shall 
be called Wonderful Counselor, The Mighty God, The everlasting 
Father, The Prince of Peace."
     MICAH 5:2  "Whose goings forth have been from of old, from 
everlasting."
     MATTHEW 28:18  "And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, 
'All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth."
     PHILIPPIANS 2:6-10  "Who, being in the form of God, though 
it not robbery to be equal with God: ... was made in the likeness 
of men ... became obedient unto death, even the death of the 
cross. Wherefore God also hath highly exaulted him ... That at 
the name of Jesus every knee should bow ....". 
     Compare to Isaiah 45:22,23 for if Jesus is not God, then we 
worship two (or more) Gods! The Mormons, basically, do not 
worship Jesus, or pray to Him, only "through" Him.)
     COLOSSIANS 2:9   "For in Him dwelleth the fullness of the 
Godhead bodily"
     HEBREWS 1:3   "... The express image of His person ...."
     JOHN 5:23  "That all men should honor the Son, even as they 
honor the Father. He that honoreth not the Son honoreth not the 
Father which hath sent Him."
     JOHN 20:28  "And Thomas answered and said unto Him, 'My Lord 
and my God'"
     
     Jesus used the same descriptions of himself; I AM, ALPHA and 
OMEGA, FIRST and LAST; as used by God the Father:

JESUS                     SAYING                    GOD

JOHN        8:58           I AM         EXODUS     3:14,15
REV     22:13,16    ALPHA AND OMEGA     REV     1:8 & 21:6
REV      1:17                           REVELATION 21:6
         2:8        FIRST AND LAST      ISAIAH     44:6
        22:13                                      48:12

     Jesus is GOD the SON! Eternally God and not after, or 
created by, or a spirit child of God! Our Jesus is NOT the 
"Jesus" of Mormonism, and we are empowered, if we have accepted 
the true Jesus into our hearts, to give Thanks unto God for 
selecting us to reveal His True Son to us. HALLELUJAH and AMEN 
!!!

Computers For Christ

                        THE NATURE OF GOD

     There is but ONE GOD. The BIBLE states that there has been, 
and presently is, and always will be only ONE GOD. History and 
the BIBLE show that the Jewish people always believed in ONE GOD 
of the UNIVERSE. The Jewish nation; However, was lured, time and 
time again, into going after "other gods" that were worshipped by 
the people surrounding Israel. That was the sin GOD hated and 
punished them for practicing. (Jeremiah 2:11 11:9-13 19:13)
     In direct contrast, MORMONISM has a basic belief in many 
gods. The Father, Son and Holy Ghost (in Mormonism) are three 
separate gods. There were gods before them and will be gods to 
follow: "If we should take a million worlds like this and number 
their particles, we should find that there are more gods than 
there are particles of matter in those worlds." JOURNAL OF 
DISCOURSES, Vol 2, page 345 [Feb 1855] Orson Pratt
     "Many men say there is one God; the Father, the Son, and the 
Holy Spirit are only one God. I say that is a strange God, anyhow 
- Three in one and one in three. It is a curious organization ... 
all are to be crammed into one God, according to sectarianism. It 
would make the biggest God in all the world ... he would be a 
giant or a monster." TEACHING OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, page 
372; HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 476
     "In the beginning, the head of the Gods called a council of 
the Gods, and they came together and concocted a plan to create 
the world and people it." JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, JOSEPH SMITH, 
Vol 6, page 5; HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 308

     Mormons will say they worship only one God; But, whether 
they worship them or not, believing in the valid existence of 
many gods -- of the same authority and reality of the one God -- 
makes you a polytheist!
     False Prophets have always led the people of history (and 
the current peoples of the earth) to go after other gods 
(Deuteronomy 13:1 to 13). God's strongest wrath was then and is 
now upon people who worship or believe in other gods (Jeremiah 
16:10 to 13 and 22:8 & 9).
     Mormonism teaches that "Father God" is married and has many 
wives: "In the heaven where our spirits were born, there are many 
Gods, each of whom has his own wife or wives, which were given to 
him previous to his redemption while yet in his mortal state." 
THE SEER, Orson Pratt, page 37
     Look up John 10:34 used by Mormons to justify a belief in 
"many Gods". Jesus, there, is quoting Psalm 82 in which the 
judges were referred to as "gods" -- but were wicked and unjust 
and "die like all men".
     Anytime the word "gods" occur in the BIBLE it must be 
verified in context as referring to the idols, satanic princes or 
counterfeit gods - (Isaiah 41:23 and 24 and 45:20).

     IN CONTRAST The BIBLE states throughout there is but ONE 
GOD! Look up these verses:

ISAIAH 43:10-11  "Before me NO god was formed, nor after"
       44: 6-8   "I am the first and the last, beside me no 
                 other"
       45: 5-6   "I am the Lord, and there is no other"
       45:18-22  "HE created the heavens and earth-there is no 
                 other"
DEUT    6:4      "Hear O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord"
       32:39     "There is no god beside me"
PSALM  86:10     "Thou alone art God"
MARK   12:29     "Jesus said, the Lord our God is one; no other"
GAL     3:20     "God is one"
JAMES   2:19     "You believe God is one - you do well"
EPH     4:5-6    "One God and Father of us all"
I COR   8:4-6    "There is no god but me"
 
     GOD IS INFINITE: The BIBLE states that God has always been 
the same from all time in eternity past and does not change. In 
direct opposition to this, the Mormon Church has the basic belief 
that God was once a man, with many gods before Him and many gods 
to come after Him. They further believe that God is progressing 
to higher levels of power and ability: "God himself was once as 
we are now, and is an exalted Man, and sits enthroned in yonder 
heavens ... it is necessary that we should understand the 
character and being of God, and how He came to be so; for I am 
going to tell you how God came to be God. We have imagined and 
supposed that God was God from all eternity. I will refute that 
idea, and will take away the veil, so that you may see ... he was 
once a man like us; yea, that God himself the Father of us all, 
dwelt on an earth the same as Jesus Christ did. "TEACHINGS OF THE 
PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, page 345; JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES Vol 6, page 
3; HISTORY OF THE CHURCH, Vol 6, page 305
     "As man is, God once was; as God is, man may become." THE 
GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES, Milton R. Hunter, pages 105 & 106
     "Our Eternal Father has attained His position of exaltation 
and Godhood by obedience to the great law of progression ... was 
once a mortal man who passed through a school of earth-life 
similar to that which we are now passing." THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE 
AGES, Milton R. Hunter, pages 12 & 104
     "Through modern revelations we learn that the universe is 
filled with vast numbers of intelligences, and we further learn 
that Elohim is God simply because all of these intelligences 
honor and sustain him as such --- But God acquired the honor and 
sustaining influence of 'all things'. It follows as a corrolary 
that if He should ever do anything to violate the confidence of 
'sense of justice' of these intelligences, they would promptly 
withdraw their support, and the 'power' of God would disintegrate 
--- He would cease to be God. Our Heavenly Father can do only 
those things which the intelligences under Him are voluntarily 
willing to support Him in accomplishing." THE FIRST 2000 YEARS, 
W. Cleon Skousen *,pages 355,356 *=FREEMEN INSTITUTE PRESIDENT & 
B.Y.U. Professor
     
     Mormonism teaches that God is confined to a body of flesh 
and bones. He is at a particular place at a particular time. The 
Mormon "god" is a SMALL "god". You can have tremendous faith in a 
god - BUT, if that god is not THE GOD, then all that tremendous 
faith is meaningless. Elijah once challenged the priests of 
"another god" to start a fire, and the "god" who was able to do 
so would be recognized as THE GOD. The priests for this wooden 
idol, with great faith and efforts prayed and prayed to their god 
to bring down fire to prove his godhood. Elijah even became 
somewhat sarcastic when he asked a rhetorical question of "Maybe 
your god is asleep? Maybe you should cry out louder to wake him 
up?". After all these efforts, nothing happened! It didn't matter 
if the priest and believers of that "god" had a great faith 
because the OBJECT of that faith was incapable of fulfilling the 
promise of that faith. The ONE and TRUE GOD fulfills our prayers.
     "If God possesses a form, that form is of necessity of 
definite proportions, and therefore of limited extension and 
space. It is impossible for Him to occupy at one time more than 
one space of such limits." ARTICLES OF FAITH, James E. Talmage, 
pages 42 and 43
     "I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all 
description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto 
me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other -'This is 
my Beloved Son. Hear Him!" PEARL OF GREAT PRICE, Joseph Smith 
2:17
     "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as 
man's. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, 130, v:22
     "God himself is increasing in knowledge, power, and dominion 
and will do so, worlds without end." JOURNAL OF 
DISCOURSES,Prophet Wilford Woodruff, Vol 6, Pg 120
     "We were begotten by our Father in heaven; the person of our 
Father in Heaven was begotten on a previous heavenly world by His 
Father; and again, He was begotten by still a more ancient Father 
...." THE SEER, Orson Pratt, Page 132
     
     The BIBLE states throughout that GOD IS INFINITE! We ask 
that you look up these proofs:
     II CHRONICLES 6:18  "Heaven and the Heaven of Heavens cannot 
                         contain thee."
     PSALM 41:13 (90:2)  "God is from everlasting to everlasting"
     PSALM 102:25-27     "created heavens, always the same 
                         without end"
     PSALM 139:4-8       "Omniscient and Omnipresent"
     JEREMIAH 23:24      "I fill heaven and earth"
     HOSEA 11:9          "I am God, and not man"
     MALACHI 4:39        "I do not change"
     NEHEMIAH 9:6        "made Heaven, Heaven of Heavens and all 
                         their host"
     PROVERBS 15:3       "His eyes in every place"
     ACTS 17:27          "He is not far from each of us"
     JOHN 4:24           "God is Spirit"
     LUKE 24:39          "A Spirit has not flesh and bones"
     HEBREWS 4:13        "All things opened unto His eyes"
     I JOHN 4:12         "No man has seen God at any time"
     I TIMOTHY 6:15      "No man has seen, nor can see ..."
     JOHN 1:18           "No man has seen God at any time"
     EXODUS 33:20        "There shall be no man see me and live"

     It is clear that the BIBLE refutes the Mormon church's 
claims and the claims of its prophets and leaders in a most 
specific manner.
     Brigham Young, second Prophet and President of the Mormon 
Church taught that ADAM was "our Father and our God...": "When 
our father Adam came into the Garden of Eden, he came into it 
with a celestial body, and brought Eve, one of his wives, with 
him ... He is our Father and our God, and the only God with whom 
we have to do ... When the Virgin Mary conceived the child Jesus, 
the Father had begotten Him in His own likeness. He was not 
begotten by the Holy Ghost. And who is the Father? He is the 
first of the human family ...." JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, Vol 1, 
page 50, April 9,1852
     "I have learned by experience that there is but one God that 
pertains to this people, and He is the God that pertains to this 
earth - the first man. That first man sent His own Son to redeem 
the world ..." JOURNAL OF DISCOURSES, Vol 4, pg 1, June 29, 1856 
Prophet & President Heber C. Kimball
     "How much unbelief exist in the minds of the Latter-Day 
Saints in regard to a particular doctrine which I revealed to 
them, and which God revealed to me -- namely, that Adam is our 
Father and our God ... Our Father, Adam helped to make this 
earth, it was created expressly for him ... He brought one of his 
wives with him, and she was called Eve ... Our Father Adam is the 
man who stands at the gate and holds the keys of everlasting life 
and salvation to all his children.." DESERET NEWS, June 18,1873: 
Discourse by Prophet and President Brigham Young

     Today, the Mormon Church adamantly denies the "ADAM-GOD" 
doctrine taught, and as seen above, and affirmed by "Prophet" 
Brigham Young. There is overwhelming evidence that he did teach, 
believed and strongly defended this belief. By any, reasonable, 
interpretation of the BIBLE, Brigham Young must be classified as 
a FALSE PROPHET (see Deuteronomy 13:1 to 10 and 18:20 to 22 - 
also Jeremiah 23:16 to 17) ADAM is not OUR god and NEVER will be!
     The BIBLE states: "... then the Lord God formed man of dust 
from the earth, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of 
life; and man became a living being." (Genesis 2:7)
     GOD is ONE and ETERNALLY the same. Creator of the Heavens 
and the Earth ... All powerful, all knowing, all present. Despite 
the fact that HE is INFINITE, he knows every hair on our heads 
and has a plan for each of our lives (John 3:16 & 10:10). It is 
far better to have a small faith in THE TRUE GOD of the universe 
than to have a great faith in a small, counterfeit god.
     One should keep in mind that faith in a "counterfeit" god is 
really no more than a misplaced faith in the false prophet and 
the teaching of a false Prophet. Remember - a counterfeit - to be 
called a counterfeit - must "resemble" the GENUINE item. If there 
are many "counterfeit" gods, then there must be a REAL GOD, and 
HE is found in the scriptures and in everything that surrounds 
us.

Computers for Christ




                      THE REAL HOLY SPIRIT

     In Mormonism the "Holy Ghost" is a personage, or a god, but 
the "Holy Spirit" is an impersonal force. The Mormons refer to 
verses that the Holy Spirit is symbolized by  oil, fire and water 
and show that these are "impersonal". The Bible refers to the 
Father and the Son as "bread of life", "living water" and other 
"impersonal" terms. Again, we must look at the context. 
     In John 16:7, our Lord is placing His emphasis on His going 
away and the Holy Spirit's being sent by the Father to replace 
our Lord himself. This change (or replacement), Jesus says, would 
be beneficial for His disciples. AN IMPERSONAL FORCE COULD HARDLY 
IMPROVE ON THE PERSONAL PRESENCE OF OUR LORD, JESUS CHRIST!
     The word in Hebrew and the word in Greek for SPIRIT and 
GHOST both mean the same, "breath or wind" and the "translators" 
of the King James Bible noted that the Greek word denoted a 
neuter gender and mistranslated to be an "IT", but they did 
utilize the word Ghost and Spirit and interchanged them on many 
occassions. 
     The words as translated are from only ONE word in Hebrew and 
ONE word in Greek - therefore there are NOT two words for  SPIRIT 
and GHOST - only ONE. Now, let's look at this ONE entity called 
the HOLY SPIRIT. In John 16:13 and 14 we see our Lord, Jesus 
telling us this about the Holy Spirit, "HE shall not speak of 
HIMSELF ... HE shall glorify me ... HE shall receive of mine 
....". NOTE that our LORD  gives PERSONALITY to the Spirit. 
Otherwise our Lord would have used the term that Mormons use 
"IT". 
     Jesus repeatedly (John  16:7-15) uses the MASCULINE PERSONAL 
pronoun "He" when referring to the Spirit. Jesus used the term 
clearly to tell us that the Spirit had personality and intimacy.
     Ananias was struck dead for lying to the HOLY SPIRIT (Acts 
5:3). You cannot lie to an impersonal force! It would be like 
walking up to a window box fan, turning it on and facing its 
"force" and then telling lie after lie to it  - IT WOULD NOT CARE 
THE SLIGHTEST, WOULD IT? Now, you look at Ananias and, if you are 
not a complete idiot, you would not repeat his behavior, now 
would you? The Holy Spirit and the Holy Ghost are not two 
different items mentioned in the Bible. There is only one entity 
referred to as both HOLY GHOST and HOLY SPIRIT.
     The Holy Spirit is a person. The Spirit may be "grieved" 
(Ephesians 4:30) and "sinned against" by UNFORGIVABLE blasphemy 
(Mark 3:29). None of these things are possible for an "impersonal 
force".

The  Holy Ghost does things which only a person COULD do.

He  SPEAKS:
     
     "The Spirit said unto Philip, 'Go near'" (Acts 8:29)

He STRIVES:

     "My Spirit shall not strive with man forever" (Genesis 6:3) 
- "The  Spirit also helpeth our infirmity ... [and] MAKETH 
INTERCESSION for us." (Romans 8:26)

He REVEALS, SEARCHES, and KNOWS:

     "But God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit; for the 
Spirit searcheth all things ... the things of God knoweth no man 
but the Spirit of God" (I Corinthians 2:10,11).

     Other verses can be shown in which the Spirit IDENTIFIES 
with believers (Acts 15:28), The Spirit is ETERNAL (Hebrews 
9:14), OMNIPRESENT (Psalm 139:7-10), DOES GOD'S WORK (Genesis 
1:2), INVOLVED IN REGENERATION (John 3:8), participates in the 
RESURRECTION (Romans 8:11).
     Paul identifies the Spirit as the speaker to Isaiah. Acts 
28:25-26 and Isaiah 6:8,9. An impersonal force does not counsel, 
speak, feel, or anything resembling personality. The HOLY SPIRIT 
is a person - one of the THREE ENTITIES of the ONE TRUE GOD.

Computers For Christ



                MORMONISM'S "SALVATION BY WORKS"
                               vs.
               SALVATION BY GRACE THROUGH CHRIST

     The entire BIBLE points in all directions to the cross. Upon 
it  God's only begotten Son died that we might have eternal  life 
from God. Only through Christ can this separation be bridged.
     On the other hand, MORMONISM points in all directions to the 
"Law  of Eternal Progression".  We have seen that Mormon doctrine 
states that God was once a man.  He progressed to become God. The 
same law states that man may become God!
     Let's go to the authorities of the church and hear what they 
have  said,  first  on the subject of man's  pre-existence  as  a 
spirit in a "spirit world" prior to taking a body here on earth:

                     DID WE PRE-EXIST?

BRUCE R. McCONKIE (Apostle); MORMON DOCTRINE, page 589 

     "Pre-existence is the term commonly used to describe the 
pre-mortal existence of the spirit children of God the Father ... 
All men and women are in the similitude of the universal Father 
and Mother, and we are literally the sons and daughters of Deity; 
as spirits they were the offspring of celestial parentage ... 
Unless God the father was a personal Being, He could not have 
begotten spirits in His image, and if there had been no self-
existent spirit element, there would have been no substance from 
which those spirit bodies could have been organized."

     The basis of the Mormon law of progression in Mormonism is 
that "intelligences" are eternal. On the other hand, God is not! 
He started as a spirit child in another 'spirit world' long ago; 
entered a body on another earth as a man; apparently was able to 
follow the law of progression perfectly; after death He became 
God in the 'celestial kingdom' of that other earth; brought (or 
was given) many wives; through sexual union in our spirit world 
had billions of spirit children : The first was Jesus, the second 
Lucifer, the third and on and on were to enter the earth as you 
and me.
     No organic difference in the parentage between us and Jesus 
and Lucifer! We all have the same literal "Heavenly Father". Note 
how those in Mormonism generally refer to Him as "Heavenly 
Father" -- they mean just that - LITERALLY!! Just remember that 
they could say also; "Heavenly GRANDFATHER", "Heavenly Great-
Grandfather", and so on ...!

MILTON R. HUNTER (1st Council of 70); GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES; 
pages 127-129 (1958)

     "In the first stage, man was an eternally existent being 
termed an intelligence ... The next realm where man dwelt was the 
spirit world."

     According to Mormon concept eternally existing intelligences 
were clothed with spirit bodies in the mansion of their eternal 
Father... "numerous sons and daughters were begotten and born of 
heavenly parents into that eternal family in the spirit world ... 
There ... they were reared to maturity, becoming grown spirit men 
and women prior to coming upon this earth ... Following his stay 
in the spirit world, man comes to earth in a probationary state 
... receives a physical body and undergoes the experiences of 
mortality .. Eventually; however, mortal death comes upon all. 
The eternal spirit goes to the spirit world to wait resurrection 
and judgement ... there they shall be assigned to the glory that 
they have merited ... Some will receive celestial glory; others 
terrestrial, while those who are recorded in the 'Lamb's Book of 
Life' will enter celestial glory. There some of them will become 
angels and others priests and kings, or, in other words, Gods."
     On page 12, Hunter states a basic "truth" of Mormonism, that 
God is subordinate to the law of eternal progression.: "Our 
Eternal Father has attained His position of exaltation and 
Godhood by obedience to the great law of progression."

JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH;  DOCTRINES OF SALVATION; Vol 1, pg 12

     "The intelligent part of man was never created but always 
existed. That is true of each of us as well as it is of God, yet 
we are born sons and daughters of God in the spirit and are 
destined to exist forever. Those who become like God will also be 
from eternity to eternity."
     The BIBLE states explicitly that there are no intelligences 
co-eternal or co-existent with God. Anything that exists, other 
than God, is a "thing". COLOSSIANS 1:16-17 and JOHN 1:1-3 state 
that ONLY Jesus is co-eternal with God as the "WORD WAS GOD" 
(John 1:1). He is before all "things" and created all "things". 
His creation did not pre-exist Him! God knows the beginning and 
end of all things before they exist. There are several scriptures 
stating HE "knew" us before we were born. They do not imply we 
existed before we were born.
     "The burden of the word of the Lord of Israel, saith the 
Lord, which stretcheth forth the heavens, and layeth the 
foundation of the earth, and formeth the spirit of man within 
him." (ZECHARIAH 12:1)

                 SALVATION BY GRACE VERSUS WORKS

     The BIBLE states over and over that we do not merit 
salvation (eternal life in God's presence) by our own goodness 
and system of good works from or for any organization. You need 
only to study the Old Testament and see the hopelessness of a 
system whereby man was to live within God's laws with the system 
of prophets - temples - priests and ordinances. The purpose of 
Jesus coming to earth to die for us was to make provision for our 
own inability to bridge this separation of man from God and 
brought a new covenant. If you choose Mormonism as your plan of 
salvation, you have regressed to the old covenant of the prophet, 
temple and ordinance which produce only "dead works" in an 
attempt to obtain righteousness on your own. If you trust the LDS 
church and its prophets; here is what is said:

MILTON R. HUNTER; THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES; pg 115 JOSEPH F. 
SMITH; TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH; pg 348

     "Thus all men who ascend to the glorious status of Godhood 
can do so only by one method - by obedience to all the principals 
and ordinances of the Gospel of Jesus Christ (another way of 
saying "Mormonism")... Men are saved no faster than they gain 
knowledge. The Prophet Joseph described the process of going 
toward Godhood as follows: When you climb a ladder, you must 
begin at the bottom, and ascend step by step, until you arrive at 
the top; and so it is with the principles of the Gospel - you 
must begin with the first, and go on until you learn all of the 
principles of exaltation. But it will be a great while after you 
have passed through the veil before you will have learned them."

JAMES E. TALMAGE; ARTICLES OF FAITH; pg 480

     "The sectarian dogma of justification by faith alone has 
exercised an influence for evil."

II NEPHI 25:23 (BOOK OF MORMON)

     "For we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after 
all we can do."

                WHAT THE MORMONS THINK OF CHRIST

LDS CHURCH TRACT; pg 32,46,47

     "Christians speak often of the blood of Christ and its 
cleansing power. Much that is believed and taught on this 
subject, however, is utter nonsense and so palpably false that to 
believe it is to lose one's salvation. Many go so far, for 
instance, as to pretend, at least, to believe that if we confess 
Christ with our lips and avow that we accept Him as our personal 
Savior, we are thereby saved ... And no man can pick the fruit of 
eternal life off the branches, as these are tied to the vine, 
without accepting both Christ and His prophets ... If it had not 
been for Joseph Smith, the Prophet, the perfect knowledge of 
Christ would not be had in the world in this day. If it had not 
been for him and his mission there would be no legal 
administrators now on earth to administer in the ordinances of 
salvation."

BRUCE R. McCONKIE; MORMON DOCTRINE; pgs 84 & 745

     "The second birth begins when men are legally baptized in 
water by a legal administrator ... Those who receive the Gospel 
(Mormon Doctrine) and join the church of Jesus Christ of Latter 
day Saints have power given them to become sons of God."
     (Compare to John 1:12 -- "But as many as received Him, to 
them gave He power to become sons of God..")

BRUCE R. McCONKIE; MORMON DOCTRINE; pg 149

     "Those things which men are directed to do to attain peace 
in this life and gain eternal life in the world to come are 
collectively called the commandments."

BRUCE R. McCONKIE; MORMON DOCTRINE; preface to 1966 Edition; pg 
118

     "Man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge -- (See I 
Corinthians 1:17,20-23,2:1-5) -- To gain salvation after baptism 
it is necessary to keep the commandments of God and endure to the 
end ... The most important things that any member of the church 
of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints ever does in this world are: 
1. To marry the right person, in the right place, by the right 
authority (Mormon Temple marriage); and 2. to keep the covenant 
made in connection with this holy and perfect order of matrimony 
- thus assuring the obedient persons of an inheritance of 
exaltation in the celestial kingdom."

CHURCH NEWS-EDITORIAL; November 8,1975; page 16

     "There is only one way to become sanctified and perfected, 
and thus prepared to live with God. That is by obedience to His 
laws. There is no other way ... When will we learn to obey him 
with all our heart, mind and strength?
     (Compare with Luke 10:27 - "Thou shalt love the Love the 
Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with 
all thy strength, and with all thy mind....")

MILTON R. HUNTER, GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES; pgs 118-120

     "If men and women obey all the other laws of the gospel 
except that of celestial marriage (Mormon Temple Marriage), they 
are appointed angels ...."

BENNET; WHY I AM A MORMON; pg 170

     "Once we have been resurrected, it will be our own efforts, 
and not Christ's sacrifice, that will be the deciding factor ... 
A man can be saved only so fast as he gains knowledge of the laws 
of God." Prophets ... temples ... Obedience to the Law ... 
Aaronic Priest .. Legalisms ... Dependent on our own efforts and 
good works ... 

     Sound familiar? Old Testament in a new wrapping? Wrapped in 
Christian terminology? Mormonism calls the unsuspecting back 
under what amounts to the old covenant. If righteousness could be 
obtained, earned or gained by our own efforts to be perfect under 
the law, there would have been no need for a "NEW" covenant. If 
all Christ's death meant was to conquer death - to pay for Adam's 
sin as Mormonism teaches - why are the following among the great 
number of God's words declaring the TRUTH of the NEW COVENANT of 
salvation through Christ, by faith, not works of the law. Look up 
these scriptures and review their full context:

               THE LAW AND WORKS DO NOT SAVE

JOHN 6:28,29,39,40 ... What must we do to be doing the works of 
God? This is the work of God that you believe in Him whom He 
sent.

ROMANS 3:21,22 ... No one is justified by the works of the law. 
Now righteousness of God is manifested apart from the Law.

ROMANS 4:13-16 ... If it is adherents of the Law that are to be 
heirs, then faith is NULL and the promise void.

ROMANS 7:4-6 ... Died to the Law through the body of Christ. 
Discharged from the law, dead to that which held us captive, so 
that we serve not under the old written code but in new life of 
the Spirit.

ROMANS 8:1-4 ... God has done what the law could not do!

ROMANS 9:30-32 ... Israel who pursued righteousness based on the 
law did not succeed. WHY? They did not pursue it through faith, 
but as if it were based on works.

ROMANS 10:1-4 ... A zeal for God - but not enlightened. Seeking 
to establish their own righteousness. Christ is the end of the 
law. Romans 14:1-23 and Colossians 3:8-23 are clear refutations 
of the point made by Joseph Smith in "Words of Wisdom" to not 
drink and eat certain things is nothing more than MAN'S 
regulation and NOT from God. Read and see what God said through 
the Apostle Paul!

GALATIANS 2:16 ... Man is not justified by works of the law but 
is through faith!

GALATIANS 2:19-21 ... Died to the law, that I might live to God. 
I do not nullify the Grace of God; for if righteousness were 
through the law, then Christ is dead in vain.

GALATIANS 3:10 ... As many as are under the works of the law are 
under the curse!

GALATIANS 3:23-28 ... Before faith came, we were under the law - 
our schoolmaster (Custodian) until Christ came. Now that faith is 
come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster.

GALATIANS 5:18 ... If led by the Spirit, you are not under the 
law.

II TIMOTHY 1:8-10 ... Who saved us, not according to our works, 
but according to His own purpose and grace.

TITUS 3:3-9 ... He saved us, not by works of righteousness which 
we have done, but according to His mercy. Being justified by 
grace.

                   HOW IS MAN (or WE ) SAVED ?

     If salvation is not by works of our own under the law and 
ordinances, HOW IS MAN SAVED? Just a few of the scriptures God 
has given us are:

JOHN 3:1-18 ... YOU MUST BE BORN AGAIN! In context Jesus, 
Himself, explains that, not only do we have a natural birth 
(Flesh) but a spiritual birth! "Whosoever believeth in Him shall 
not perish but have everlasting life (ETERNAL)!

ROMANS 5:1-11 ... Christ died for us, sinners, who are now 
justified by His blood. We are reconciled through Him.

ROMANS 5:15-17 ... The free gift of righteousness by the grace of 
God.

ROMANS 10:9-17 ... Confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and 
believe in your heart God raised Him from the dead, you will be 
saved.

GALATIANS 2:16-21 ... We are justified by faith. Our old nature 
is crucified with Christ; Christ now lives in us; we live by 
faith --- not the law!

EPHESIANS 2:8-10 ... "For by grace are ye saved through faith; 
and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God: Not of works, 
lest any man should boast. For we are His workmanship, created in 
Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that 
we should walk in them."

     Works have nothing to do with our justifying eternal life. 
The Mormon will be quick to point out James 2:17 - "Even so 
faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone." AMEN! That is 
not denying salvation by faith. What it is saying is this: "You 
say you are saved? Saving faith will naturally flow into a life 
that will show evidence of it. Your 'works' will testify of your 
faith. If none, there is reason to question whether there really 
was a saving faith to start with." To quote Ed Decker in his 
tract "To Moroni with Love"; You do not bark to become a dog nor 
"baa" to become a sheep. You bark because you are a dog or "baa" 
because you are a sheep! Christians, when born-again and indwelt 
by the Holy Spirit, have a never ending desire to follow the Lord 
Jesus in their daily life behavior. "Works" is not an appropriate 
name as it suggests payment after the work has been done. Christ 
made the payment IN FULL for our sins by His blood for us; if 
only we REPENT of our sins and ACCEPT Him by faith. It is 
available only through God's grace for an eternal life.

I JOHN 1:7 ... Blood of Jesus cleanseth us from all sin.

HEBREW 9:23-28,10:10-18 ... Jesus was the sacrifice, once, to 
perfect forever those who are sanctified.

ROMANS 5:6-11 ... We are reconciled by His blood.

ISAIAH 53:6-11 & I CORINTHIANS 5:17-21 ... Our iniquity was laid 
on Jesus; to die for us; that we might be made the righteousness 
of God in Him.

I PETER 2:24 ... "Who his own self bare our sins in His own body 
on the tree, that we, being dead to sins should live unto 
righteousness: By whose stripes ye are healed."

     You will never (Well, We won't say never because God may 
have His plan for their salvation that We are not aware of at 
this moment) see a cross on a Mormon structure. They will say 
call it a "graven image"; yet "Moroni" stands on top of their 
temples. Moroni didn't die for them. Joseph Smith, Jr. didn't die 
for them. The church didn't die for them. JESUS DIED FOR THEM, if 
they would only cling to His cross and reach out to claim His 
blood for their sins. They're told they can earn their own 
righteousness based on the law of the church which is based on 
"prophets, seers and revelators" proven -TIME AND AGAIN- to be 
false. Wouldn't you rather lay your eternal life in the hands of 
the ETERNAL GOD; the SON who, personally, died for you - than, 
say, a "prophet" in Salt Lake City?
     Our prayer is that this comparison of the Bible vs: the LDS 
Mormon church will show you the LIGHT of CHRIST.

Computers For Christ

         DO THE NAG HAMMADI WRITING AND DEAD SEA SCROLLS 
                        CONFIRM MORMONISM
                               or
                  IS EINAR ERICKSON CONFUSED ?

     In recent years, Mormon lecturer, Einar C. Erickson, has 
given numerous talks to Mormon church groups concerning the Dead 
Sea Scrolls, Nag Hammadi writings, Mandean Ginza and related 
Middle East finds. These lectures have been taped and widely 
distributed for use in converting the uninformed to Mormonism. Mr 
Erickson states that the writings discovered in the vicinity of 
Nag Hammadi, Egypt, are one of the greatest confirmations of the 
"truthfulness" of the Mormon church that anyone would find 
anywhere. 
     On one of his tapes, Mr. Erickson boldly declares that: 
"These documents and others leave without doubt evidence positive 
even on the best rules of evidence that an attorney might be able 
to assemble, that this gospel [i.e. the Mormon gospel] is true. 
You get no credit for faith anymore." Mr. Erickson attempts to 
convince his listeners that the writers of the Nag Hammadi were 
the true Christians, (based upon his allegation of their 
similarity to Mormonism) and that all others had slipped off into 
apostasy.
     However; the Nag Hammadi writings are of "Gnostic" origin 
which were written during the first to fourth century A.D. The 
Gnostic heretics did cherish both the Old and New testament 
Scripture, but re-interpreted them in terms of a mythological 
Gnostic Redeemer. Gnosticism gave rise to the writings of a 
number of totally spurious apocalyptic books, false gospels and 
epistles that incorporated their own mysticism.
     Gnosticism was a movement that vigorously contended with 
Orthodox Christianity for supremacy. Writings by the early Church 
Fathers show how widespread and influential Gnosticism was; and 
it was combatted as a lethal threat to the proclamation of the 
Gospel. The bishops pointed out the great gulf between Biblical 
Christianity and Gnosticism, even though the Gnostics made use of 
Biblical text. It is obvious that Paul, the Apostle, knew of the 
false ideas of Gnosticism, and spoke out against such doctrines 
several times in the Scriptures.
     The Gnostics believed in the supreme being as an 
undescribable God. He is invisible, incomprehensible, and dwells 
unbegotten in eternal peace. Some names used to describe God and 
to stress His transcendence were "Father of All", "The 
Unapproachable God", "The Unknowable". Such a God could not 
possibly have direct contact with the material world; therefore, 
He does so through intermediates, each one answerable to the 
other. Each intermediate in descending order is less divine and 
more earthy as the chain nears the material world.
     Mr. Erickson spellbinds his listeners when he tells them 
that the Nag Hammadi writings confirm the Mormon doctrine of the 
Heavenly Mother! What he fails to tell them is that this Mother 
God of the Nag Hammadi is the "Holy Spirit." Certainly this is in 
direct conflict with the Mormon concept of a Mother God, because 
in Mormon doctrine, the Holy Spirit is a male. The supreme being 
has a female counterpart which emanates from Him. She is known as 
"Mother of All" or "The Holy Spirit."
     Other emanations that come forth from the Supreme Being in 
pairs are called AEONS; the lowest Aeon being "Sophia Akhamoth", 
she was so full of passion to understand or know God that she 
fell and was placed outside the Pleroma, God's heavenly dwelling. 
Because of her desire, she becomes fertile with a formless 
monster. This monster (Yaldabaoth, Samael or SATAN) is the 
Demiurge or inferior god who created this material world and 
brought forth man upon it.
     According to the Gnostic, all matter is evil; therefore, 
only an inferior being could have created it. Satan is the 
creator-god of this earth and of man, and is an evil god. To the 
Gnostics, Satan is Jehovah of the Old Testament! After Jehovah 
(Satan) creates man and breathes life into him, he creates Eve. 
The demonic forces see the beauty of Eve, and proceed to rape 
her. Through this act, she conceives Cain and Abel.
     Mr. Erickson often refers to the Hypostasis of the Archons 
of the Nag Hammadi and being direct parallel to the Garden of 
Eden scene of the Mormon Temple Ceremony. However, he fails to 
inform his listeners that the Hypostasis of the Archeons tells of 
the demons raping Eve! Nor does he point out that the serpent in 
the garden is really the Holy Spirit coming to give Adam and Eve 
the "true knowledge." He neglects to mention to his listeners 
that the "god" who comes into the garden to ask Adam and Eve what 
they have done is not the "Heavenly Father" but is Satan the 
arrogant Archon, the evil god. In this instance, Mr. Erickson is, 
at best, mistaken about the facts -- a fault which reappears 
throughout his lectures and tapes.
     The authors of the Nag Hammadi writings taught a form of re-
incarnation, and that marriage was evil, because it is of the 
earth. They believed the begetting of children was from Satan, 
since it merely increases the number subjected to the evil 
angels. Resurrection of the flesh is denied by these Gnostics, 
since earthly flesh is in itself evil, and can have no part in 
the spiritual scheme of God. All of these concepts are not 
confirmations of Mormon doctrine, but are direct contradictions 
of it!
     Mr. Erickson, looking elsewhere in the Middle East for 
"proof," tells his audiences that the writings of the Mandaeans 
of Iraq and Iran are (also) a confirmation of Mormonism. His 
"evidence" for this is that they speak of baptism for the dead, 
baptism by immersion, priesthood and baptize in the name of the 
Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. What he fails to mention to 
them is: according to the Mandaeans, Jesus was a rebel and a 
heretic who led men astray by betraying secret doctrine and 
making religion easier. The Mandaean sacred book tells of how 
Jesus perverted the Scriptures, and that Jesus told the Jews that 
He was the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. Furthermore, the 
Mandaean book accuses Jesus perverting baptism by baptizing in 
the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost.
     The Mandaeans were baptized many times throughout their 
lives. They baptized infants; and if an infant died before or 
during this baptism, a clay or dough image was made which they 
then baptized in proxy for that infant. Proxy baptism was also 
done for an adult who died before getting his last minute 
washings before death. In this case, an individual that looked 
like the deceased was baptized in proxy for the dead person.
     The Mandaeans also had a ceremony of "eating for the dead" 
to give the deceased nourishment for his travels to the heavenly 
spheres. The Mormon people do not baptize infants, do not eat for 
the dead, nor do they have last minute washing rituals before 
death as the Mandaeans did. The Mormon proxy baptisms have less 
in common with the Mandaean baptisms than they do with Catholic 
infant baptisms, last rites ritual, and prayers for the dead. 
Clearly, the Mandaean concepts of Jesus and baptism are in no way 
similar to Mormon doctrine.
     Those holding the Mandaean priesthood had to have a clean 
family history for a number of generations, and meet strict 
physical and mental qualifications. They had to be without the 
slightest physical blemish, and be of pure Mandaean blood. A man 
who was circumcised, impotent, or a eunuch could not be a priest 
for the body must be sound, pure, and perfect. If a man was 
already a priest and he received an injury which destroyed his 
manhood or robbed him of a limb, he could no longer officiate as 
a priest. There are no such restrictions within the Mormon 
priesthoods. The only things in common with the Mormon 
priesthoods and baptism and that of the Mandaean are the very 
words themselves!
     Mr. Erickson makes false claims about the Dead Sea Scrolls 
community, as well. He states that those at Qumran baptized at 
the age of eight, just as the Mormons do. This is just simply NOT 
the case. They trained young men for their celibate monastic 
order for about ten years before they were baptized into their 
ranks. This baptism never took place before the age of twenty. 
Mr. Erickson states that the people of Qumran were essentially 
the first "Mormons." However, the people at Qumran didn't even 
believe in marriage! Rather they adopted in young men from other 
Essene groups who married only to beget children. By contrast, in 
Mormonism, marriage is absolutely essential to each member's 
salvation in the Celestial Kingdom of God.
     Mr. Erickson claims that the Apocryphal books should be used 
as scripture. However, even the Mormon's own "latter day" 
revelation disagrees with him. In the introductory heading of 
Section 91 of the Doctrine and Covenants, it declares 
specifically that the apocryphal books are NOT to be accepted as 
scripture. Beyond that built-in contradiction, lies the fact that 
one need only to read some of these apocrypha for himself to 
quickly discover their singular lack of inspiration.
     For example, two "Gospels" portray the life of the young 
Jesus, allegedly covering the "silent" years skipped over in the 
Bible. The book, "The First Gospel of the Infancy of Jesus" 
portrays Jesus as a spoiled despot who curses another child for 
bumping into him, and a schoolmaster who was going to discipline 
Him for refusing to answer a question. After these two people are 
killed at Jesus' command, Joseph tells Mary, "we will not allow 
him to go out of the house; for every one who displeases him is 
killed." In Thomas' "Gospel of the Infancy of Jesus Christ", we 
see Jesus causing the withering of hands, blindness, and again, 
death. This is clearly not the Jesus Christ of the Bible!
     The conclusion is inescapable -- the claims by Mr. Erickson 
(and consequently other Mormons) that the Mormon doctrine is 
"exonerated" by the findings in the Middle East is totally 
without foundation. Mormon doctrine is not confirmed by these 
different religious sects, it is contradicted by them! It is 
apparent that these claims are just another chapter in the long 
history of false archeological boasts made by Mormons in the 
past.

NOTE: A full and completely documented study of Mr. Erickson's 
scholarship regarding the above topics has been written by Mrs. 
Melaine Layton entitled: The Truth About the Dead Sea Scrolls and 
the Nag Hammadi Writings in Reference to Mormonism. For further 
information, please write to the office of Computers For Christ - 
San Jose.
            Do Mormons "Really" Believe in the Bible?

               Isaiah 41:21 - Set Forth your case
               I Peter 3:15 - Be prepared, always

     The credibility of a religious claim rests upon its ability 
to verify its terms. In the year of 1800, the French Institute in 
Paris issued a list of 82 "errors' that it had found in the Bible 
and felt would destroy Christianity in short order. In 1804, not 
one of the alleged errors remained!
     In the year 1901, the American Society of Archeology claimed 
that the Biblical account of a peoples called the Hittites was 
false. In 1933, archeologists found conclusive proof of the 
existence of the Hittites and other peoples that the Bible had 
claimed existed!
     The primary question for this text is: "Why are we 
discussing the matter of the Bible and its completeness? Doesn't 
the Mormon church accept the Bible as the Word of God?" To 
respond, let me quote from the sources of the Mormon church:

     8th Article of Faith - "We believe the Bible to be the word 
of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the 
Book of Mormon to be the Word of God."
     Joseph Smith, in Teaching of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 
327, stated "Ignorant translators, careless transcribers, or 
designing and corrupt priests committed many errors.' and the 
mormon apostle Mark E. Peterson states in his book, As Translated 
Correctly - page 4, "Many insertions were made, some of them 
"slanted' for selfish purposes, while at times deliberate 
falsifications and fabrications were perpetrated.'
     Orson Pratt further made a comment in his book, Divine 
Authenticity of the Book of Mormon - pages 45 & 47, thus: "If it 
be admitted that the apostles and evangelists did write the books 
of the New Testament, that does not prove of itself that they 
were divinely inspired at the time they wrote ... Add all this 
imperfection to the uncertainty of the translation, and who, IN 
HIS RIGHT MIND could for one moment suppose the Bible in its 
present form to be a perfect guide? Who knows that even one verse 
of the Bible has escaped pollution, so as to convey the same 
sense now that it did in the original?"
     The Book of Mormon, II Nephi 29:6 states "Thou fool, that 
shall say a Bible, we have got a Bible and we need no more Bible. 
Have ye obtained a Bible save it were by the Jews?" Can you note 
the FOOLS are the only ones who trust in the Bible? Read verse 
10. Here, the Book of Mormon declares the need for more 
revelation and makes way for its own existence!
     A point of interest - turn to I Nephi 13:26: "a great and 
abominable church - has taken away from the gospel of the Lamb 
many parts which are plain and precious; and also many covenants 
of the Lord have they taken away." The Book of Mormon tells us 
that this is 600 B.C.! Do you know what B.C. means - BEFORE 
CHRIST! So we are told that the gospel of the Lamb has been 
polluted six hundred years before the Lamb or His Gospel was 
recorded in the New Testament and given at the Passover!

                    IS THE BIBLE INFALLIBLE?

     The Bible was composed over a period of 1,500 years by more 
than 40 different authors from the full range of humanity: from 
military generals (Joshua) to prime ministers (Daniel) to 
cupbearers (Nehemiah) to fishermen (Peter) to tax collectors 
(Matthew) to kings (David). The books were written in many 
different places: the wilderness (Moses), prison (Paul), and 
exile (John on the Island Patmos). On three different continents 
(Africa, Asia and Europe) and in three different languages 
(Hebrew, Aramaic and Greek).
     The content, yet, remains constant in its unfolding of the 
plan of salvation through Christ Jesus. The Old Testament reveals 
itself to be the story of the preparation for the arrival of the 
Messiah or Christ. The Gospels of the New Testament are the 
manifestation of the Christ in the person of Jesus of Nazareth. 
Acts is the propagation of the message. The Epistles give the 
explanation and the Revelation of John provides the consummation 
of the Kingdom of God in Christ Jesus or Lord! The entire Bible 
is about Jesus (Luke 24:27 - 44 and John 5:39,46,47). I challenge 
any Mormon to take any ten people, and you can even get them from 
the same heritage - education - language and culture and ask them 
separately to give you their opinion of the meaning of life - you 
will get opinions of such variety, yet the Bible consists of over 
40 authors of more than one generation with very little 
similarity and is in total unity! Complete harmony!
 
     In discussion of the matter of infallibility of the Bible we 
need, first to look at the process that we use to arrive at this 
conclusion:
 PREMISE # 1 - The Bible is basically a reliable and trustworthy 
document.

PREMISE # 2 - On the basis of this reliable document, we have 
sufficient evidence to believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of 
God.

PREMISE # 3 - Jesus Christ, being the Son of God, is an 
infallible authority. (Luke 24:27,44; John 5:39; Hebrews 10:7)

PREMISE # 4 - Jesus Christ teaches that the Bible is MORE than 
generally trustworthy. He teaches that it is the very Word of 
God.

PREMISE # 5 - The WORD, in that it comes from God, is utterly 
trustworthy because GOD is utterly trustworthy!

PREMISE # 6 - On the basis of the infallible authority of Jesus 
Christ, the Bible is infallible.

     II Timothy 2:13 declares that God "cannot deny Himself" and 
Galatians 1:8,9 tells us that we should be wary of any teaching 
of any other Gospel than that which Paul preached, which by the 
declaration of Paul in Romans 15:19 states that "I have fully 
preached the Gospel of Jesus Christ."
     The Mormon church is unable to provide any proof that Paul 
taught such doctrines as celestial marriage, no hell, wearing of 
sacred underwear, or godhood to be obtained. It is proper to 
state that if Paul never taught such doctrines, then Galatians 
1:8-9 CONDEMNS them! The claim of the LDS that more scripture is 
necessary is groundless.
     In II Peter 1:3, we are told that "His divine power hath 
given unto us ALL things that pertain to life and godliness." 
Paul further explained in Colossians 2:10 that "Ye are COMPLETE 
in Him." If just these two statements are true, what possible use 
could additional scripture be? Granted that nowhere in the Bible 
does it state that "This is the end of Scripture"; However, with 
the above statements, anything else could ONLY be redundant. It 
is obvious from the text of the New Testament that the writers 
were "eyewitnesses" of the ministry and presence of Jesus Christ. 
(II Peter 1:15-18 and I John 1:1-5)
     Acts 22:14-15 and I Corinthians 11:23 show that the Apostle 
Paul was specially chosen by the Lord as a witness while the 
other Apostles were alive. Paul's testimony was identical to that 
of the other Apostles - what He had seen, heard and taught of the 
Lord Jesus was identical to all previous teachings and in accord 
with the Old Testament teachings. Much more could have been 
written (John 20:30 and 21:25); However, there was no need as 
there already existed "all things that pertain to life and 
godliness." (II Peter 1:3 and John 20:31)
     How many of us, Mormon or Christian have read and digested 
all of the meat of the Holy Bible - completely? Can there really 
be a need for something more when the original item is still 
unplumbed for the depths it contains? 
     We have the following possibilities: the Bible was written 
by either (1) Good Men or Angels, (2) Evil Men or Demons, (3) 
God.
     Good Men or Angels could not have written it as they could 
not write "Thus saith the Lord" when it was a lie or an invention 
of their own minds.
     Evil men or demons could not have written the Bible as they 
would not have written a book that commands all duty, forbids all 
sin, and condemns all evil to Hell!
     We thus have GOD as the only source of the BIble.

     In the ancient Israel, a class of servants in the Temple 
were called Scribes. This was a lifelong calling and one of great 
importance to the continuance of the Law and Prophets of Israel. 
I will demonstrate the LEGAL method of making a copy of a 
document according to the laws of Israel at this time and 
according to the great traditions of the Talmud. The possibility 
for incorrect copy is almost non-existent. Combine this with the 
facts as proven by archeology. Prior to the Dead Sea Scroll copy 
of the Book of Isaiah, the best copy of that Book was over 1000 
years newer! In comparing the two copies that covered this gap of 
a thousand years, there was found only ONE CHARACTER changed, and 
that was an article that "possibly" could have lost the accent 
mark of the character to make it 100% identical to the dead sea 
scroll version! Imagine - 1000 years of copies and NO CHANGE in 
the versions! Now the basis to make copies of the New Testament 
were as strict. We find many incidences of the same phenomena of 
clarity and correctness. Out of all the many thousands of pieces 
and text, not ONE DOCTRINE has been added to or changed or 
modified in ANY MANNER!

                   JOSEPH SMITH'S FIRST VISION
                         Fact or Fable ?
                        By W. P. Walters

     "Sometime in the second year after our removal to 
Manchester, there was in the place where we lived an unusual 
excitement on the subject of religion. It commenced with the 
Methodists, but soon became general among all the sects in the 
region of country ... my mind became somewhat partial to the 
Methodists ... but so great was the confusion and strife among 
the different denominations, that it was impossible ... to come 
to any certain conclusion who was right, and who was wrong ... in 
accordance with this, by determination, to ask God, I retired to 
the woods to make an attempt. It was on the morning of a 
beautiful, clear day, early in the spring of eighteen hundred and 
twenty ... I kneeled down and began to offer up the desires of my 
heart to God. ... I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head 
... When the light rested upon me I saw two personages, (whose 
brightness and glory defy all description) standing above me in 
the air ... I asked the personages who stood above me in the 
light, which of all the sects was right, (for at this time it had 
never entered into my heart that all were wrong) and which I 
should join. I was answered that I must join none of them, for 
they were all wrong ..."  Joseph Smith, Jr.

     The well publicized story above, of Joseph Smith's First 
Vision is not a true account of the origin of the Latter Day 
Saint movement. The facts are decidedly against it!
     First, the historical evidence shows that Joseph Smith, Jr. 
could not have been stirred by an 1820 revival, to ask which 
church was true.
     Second, early Mormon statements do not support his claim 
that in 1820 he learned through a visitation of the Father and 
the Son that all existing churches were wrong.
     Third, the details known about Joseph's early life 
contradict his assertion that in 1820 he had such a divine 
visitation and was persecuted by the community for telling such a 
story.

NO 1820 REVIVAL .....

     First his neighborhood in 1820 experienced no revival such 
as he described, in which "great multitudes" joined the 
Methodist, Baptist, and Presbyterian churches. The Presbyterian 
records for the Palmyra Presbyterian Church show that it 
experienced no revival in 1820. The local Baptist Church gained 
only six on profession of faith the entire year, while the 
Methodists actually lost members that year as well as the 
preceeding and following years. (Minutes of the Annual 
Conference)
     Joseph Smith claimed that his mother, sister and two 
brothers were led to join the local Presbyterian Church as a 
result of that 1820 revival. However, four years before he made 
this claim, his own church paper had stated that the revival in 
which his family had been led to join the Presbyterian Church 
took place in 1823. (Messenger & Advocate I, pp. 42, 78) In fact, 
that account says it was the same 1823 revival that led him to go 
to his bedroom (not to a sacred grove) and pray "if a Supreme 
being did exist" and to know that "he was accepted of him." An 
angel (not a deity) is then reported to have appeared and told 
him of his forgiveness and of the gold plates.
     Joseph's mother, likewise, knew nothing of an 1820 vision. 
In her unpublished account she traces the origin of Mormonism to 
a BEDROOM VISIT by an angel. Joseph at the time had been 
"pondering which of the churches were the true one." The angel 
told him "there is not a true church on Earth, No not one." 
(First draft of "Lucy Smith's History," LDS Church Archives)
     Furthermore, she tells us that the revival which led to her 
joining the church took place following the death of her son, 
Alvin. Alvin died November 19, 1823, and following that painful 
loss she reports that: "..about this time there was a great 
revival in religion and the whole neighborhood was very much 
aroused to the subject and we among the rest, flocked to the 
meeting house to see if there was a word of comfort for us that 
might relieve our over-charged feelings." (P. 86)
     She adds that although her husband would only attend the 
first meetings, he had no objection to her or the children "going 
or BECOMING CHURCH MEMBERS." (emphasis added)
     There is plenty of additional evidence that the revival Lucy 
Smith refers to did occur during the winter of 1824-1825. It was 
reported in at least a dozen newspapers and religious 
periodicals. The church records show outstanding increases due to 
the reception of new converts. The Baptist Church received 94, 
the Presbyterian 99, while the Methodist work grew by 208. No 
such revival bringing in "great multitudes" occurred in 1820.
     It is clear that the revival Joseph Smith, Jr. described did 
not occur in 1820, but in 1824. Joseph Smith arbitrarily moved 
that revival back four years to 1820 and made it fit a First 
Vision story that neither his mother nor other close associates 
had heard of in those early days. The historical facts completely 
discredit Joseph Smith's First Vision story. (For further details 
see, DIALOGUE: A JOURNAL OF MORMON THOUGHT, Spring 1969, pp. 59-
100)

BIBLE READING vs. REVELATIONS .....

     About 1832, Joseph Smith, Jr. began an account of the origin 
of the Mormon church (the only one written in his own hand), that 
contradicts the official First Vision story he dictated some six 
years later. The account was never finished and has only recently 
been published. (See the text in BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY 
STUDIES, Spring 1969, pp. 278ff) In this version Joseph presents 
himself between the ages of twelve and fifteen being a committed 
and perceptive reader of the Bible. He claims that his STUDY OF 
THE SCRIPTURES led him to understand that all the denominations 
were wrong. He wrote: "...by searching the Scriptures I found 
that mankind did not come into the Lord but that they had 
apostatised from the true and living faith and there was no 
society or denomination that built upon the Gospel of Jesus 
Christ as recorded in the new testament."
     Six years later, when he set forth his official First Vision 
story, he decided that he never had reached the firm conclusion 
that all churches were wrong from his study of the Bible. 
Instead, he claimed that it was DURING A VISION OF THE FATHER AND 
THE SON that he first learned this information. He presented this 
as coming as a great surprise, for he added parenthetically - 
"for at this time it had NEVER ENTERED INTO MY HEART THAT ALL 
WERE WRONG." (emphasis added) That statement even contradicted 
what Joseph had said a few paragraphs earlier in the same 
account. There he claimed that "I OFTEN SAID TO MYSELF ... Who of 
all these parties are right; or ARE THEY ALL WRONG TOGETHER?" 
(emphasis added) Although the former statement appears in the 
original manuscript (see BYU Studies above, p. 290), such a 
serious contradiction could not be allowed to stand, and after 
Joseph's death the embarrassing words were edited out.
     Even without these words, however, the 1838 official account 
is in conflict with the 1832 version. In the 1832 account it is 
his Bible reading that stirs him to seek God, while in the 1838 
story it is a non-existent revival that motivates him.
     In the 1832 version he claims to have seen only Christ, 
while in the 1838 rendition both the Father and the Son appear. 
In the 1832 account he already knows all the churches are wrong, 
while in the 1838 story it is the dual deities who first inform 
him of this. Different people may have different views of the 
same event, but when one person tells contradictory stories about 
an event, he completely loses his credibility.

PERSECUTION vs. ACCEPTANCE .....

     The 1838 First Vision story not only runs into trouble with 
Joseph's earlier 1832 version, it is also contradicted by what we 
know about his early years in Palmyra. In his official version 
Joseph claims he was persecuted by all the churches in his area 
"because I continued to affirm I had seen a vision." However, 
Orsemus Turner, an apprentice printer in Palmyra until 1822, was 
in the same juvenile debating club with Joseph Smith. He recalled 
that Joseph "after catching a spark of Methodism ... became a 
very passable exhorter in evening meetings." (HISTORY OF THE 
PIONEER SETTLEMENT OF PHELPS AND GORHAM'S PURCHASE, 1851, p. 214) 
Thus, instead of being opposed and persecuted as his 1838 account 
claims, young Joseph was welcomed and allowed to exhort during 
the Methodist's evening preaching. Furthermore, no one, either 
Mormon or non-Mormon, seems ever to have heard of Joseph's 
encounter with two divine Personages until after 1838. (see this 
admission in DIALOGUE, Autumn 1966, pp. 30-31; SAINTS HERALD, 
June 29, 1959, p. 21)

     From all available lines of evidence, therefore, Joseph's 
First Vision story appears to be a fabrication. There was NO 
REVIVAL anywhere in the Palmyra area in 1820, Joseph was 
WELCOMED, NOT PERSECUTED by the Methodists. His 1832 account 
represents him as PERCEIVING FROM HIS PERSONAL BIBLE STUDY that 
all the churches were apostate, while his 1838 account said it 
"NEVER ENTERED INTO MY HEART that all were wrong." His 1832 
version claimed ONLY A VISION OF CHRIST, while the 1838 story 
transformed this into THE FATHER AND THE SON. No one ever heard 
such a story until after he dictated it in 1838. 
     In the light of such strong contradictory evidence, the 
First Vision story must be regarded as only the invention of 
Joseph Smith's highly imaginative mind. The facts and Joseph's 
own words discredit it.


     This work is presented with the earnest prayer that sincere 
people everywhere may perceive the fallacy and danger of 
Mormonism and will not become entangled in it, and that the dear 
Mormon people who are unfortunately deceived by it, may be 
reclaimed and find the true Way of salvation in the Bible and the 
blessed Saviour whom it reveals.

     "Jesus saith unto him, I am the Way, the Truth, and the 
Life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by Me." (John 14:6)

     We also pray that the earnest reader upon discerning these 
things will search the Word of God, the Bible, the only Book 
whose message is "able to make thee wise unto salvation through 
faith which is in Christ Jesus." (II Timothy 3:15)

For Further information write:

Utah Christian Tract Society
P.O. Box 725
La Mesa, California 92041

                 SALVATION THROUGH CHRIST
                            vs:
                   THE EXALTATION OF MAN

God's word, the BIBLE, which clearly states that our 
salvation is through the shed blood of Jesus Christ, alone 
through one faith and His Grace --- not as a result of 
fabricating our own righteousness by "good works" by 
attempting to become "perfect" as a result of laws and 
ordinances of any organization.

                      I JOHN 5:11-13

   "And this is the record, that God hath given us eternal 
life, and this life is in His son. He that hath the Son 
hath life; and he that hath not the Son hath  not life. 
These things have I written unto you that believe on the 
name of the Son of God; that ye may know that ye have
eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the
Son of God."

God spells it out - you either have life through the Son 
or you reject Him. It is either Heaven or the Lake of Fire; 
no "grey areas"; no half-way locations. You either accept 
the Son or you reject Him. 

Mormonism claims to accept Jesus ----    

"We have His name on our church" - But we have now
seen that the Jesus of Mormonism is a different Jesus
- not any resembalance to the REAL Jesus. Further, by 
rejecting the total sufficiency of the New Covenant of the 
sacrifice of Jesus on the cross for their personal sins - 
and instead electing to attempt the old covenant of works, 
laws, temples, etc ----- they nullify the offer of eternal 
life as a gift by God's Love and immeasurable Grace:

                      GALATIANS  2:21

"I do not frustrate the Grace of God: for if righteousness 
come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain."
As a result, the Mormon believing in the Mormon Jesus, and 
not the real Jesus of the BIBLE; and following a life only
of works, even with utmost sincerity, without the saving 
faith in the one who died for them, personally, is LOST. We
don't say that - GOD says that - in HIS Word - The BIBLE

                  THREE KINGDOMS?

Let's go further ---- Mormonism claims three "heavens."
They take I CORINTHIANS 15:37-49 totally out of context to 
arrive at this false teaching. Where Paul is declaring that 
an individual's resurrected body is different in Glory from 
his earthly body - as the sun differs from the moon, from 
the stars - Mormonism has declared three kingdoms of Heaven:

                     TELESTIAL KINGDOM

Where all the wicked go, whether they've rejected God and 
Jesus all their life or not - Murderers, etc !

                    TERRESTIAL KINGDOM

Where good and honorable persons go - they only failed to 
accept the "gospel" of Mormonism.

                     CELESTIAL KINGDOM

a) LOWER DEGREE
Good Mormons, but failed to marry in the Temple and having 
"other" imperfections. These will be allowed to be angels.

b) MIDDLE DEGREE
Mormons who failed to accept the complete "gospel" but were 
married in the Temple, sealed to many wives, and are in the 
process of being exalted through baptism of the dead, etc.

c) HIGHEST DEGREE - EXALTATION
"Perfect" Mormons. They will be gods themselves just like 
God the Father. Will have eternal, multiple, marriages for 
the purpose of sexually procreating billions of spirit 
children to populate another world that they will reign 
over as that world's god.

                    MORMON TERMINOLOGY

Let's be "clear" on some important terms - even though you 
will find Mormon writers interchanging them, in a strict 
sense they are:

                         SALVATION

Resurrection only; immortality, or simply life after death. 
This is what Christ's death on the cross "achieved". This 
is what all mankind has by the Grace of God as a free gift. 
But "salvation" for what? This is just the bottom of the 
ladder.

"Those who gain only this general or unconditional 
salvation will still be judged according to their works and 
receive places in a Terrestial or Telestial kingdom. They 
will, therefore, be damned; their eternal progression will 
be cut short; they will not fill the full measure of their 
creation, but in eternity will be ministering servants to 
more worthy persons."
Bruce R. McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, "Salvation",pg 669,670 
(1966 Edition)

So, you see, salvation as a gift through Christ is nothing 
special to a Mormon. When they say, "Jesus is our Savior", 
this is what they give Him "credit" for!

Now, let's find out what the goal of Mormonism is. Who are 
these "more worthy persons" ?

EXALTATION = Eternal Life in the Highest Degree of the 
Celestial Kingdom. This is what Mormonism teaches day in 
and day out. McConkie continues -

"Conditional or individual salvation, that which comes by 
grace coupled with gospel obedience, consist in receiving 
an inheritance in the Celestial Kingdom  of God. This kind 
of salvation follows faith, repentance, baptism, receipt of 
the Holy Ghost, and continued righteousness to the end of 
one's mortal life. (D & C 20:29 & 2 Nephi 9:23-24). All 
others are damned --- Even those in the celestial kingdom 
however, who do not go on to exaltation, will have 
immortality only and not eternal life --- they will be 
'ministering servants, to minister for and to those who are 
worthy of a far more, and an exceeding and an eternal 
weight of glory'. They will live "separately and singly" in 
an unmarried state 'without exaltation, in their saved 
condition, to all eternity' (D & C 132:16,17). Salvation in 
its true and full meaning is synonymous with exaltation or 
eternal life and consist in gaining an inheritance in the 
highest of the three heavens within the Celestial Kingdom 
--- It is the salvation which saints seek --- This full 
salvation is obtained in and through the continuation of 
the family unit in eternity, and those who obtain it are 
gods --- If it had not been for Joseph Smith and the 
restoration, there would be no salvation. There is no 
salvation outside The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints."

"Then shall they be gods, because they have no end  -  Then 
shall they be gods, because they have all power ---"
(D & C 132:20)

"Here then is eternal life - to know the only wise and true 
God; and you have got to learn how to be gods yourselves, 
and to be kings and priest to God, the same as all gods 
have done before you --- and to sit in glory, as do those 
who sit in everlasting power --- What is it? To inherit the 
same power, the same glory and the same exaltation, until 
you arrive at the station of a god ---"
Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pg 345-347; 
Bruce R. McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, "Godhood", 1966 
Edition, pg 321
History of the Church, Volume 6, page 306

"They are they into whose hands the Father has given all 
things - they are they who are priest and kings, who have 
received of His fulness, and his glory -- they are gods --"
Doctrine & Covenants, 76:55-58

"As man is, God once was; as God is, man may become."
Lorenzo Snow, Millennial Star, Vol 54, pg 404

"Mormonism does not tend to debase God to the level of man,
but to exalt man to the perfection of God."
Charles W. Penrose,Millenial Star,Vol 23, pg 181

The above quotes appear in Milton R. Hunter's, The Gospel
Through The Ages (1958, pges 105-107) under the chapter 
heading "Men may become gods". Hunter surprisingly supports 
Mormonism's view of the Godhead of man by noting (on pg 117):
"Even the doctrine of a knowledge of God as the avenue to 
Godhood made its way outward from the Divine Fountain of 
Truth into the heathenistic religions of the Mediterranean 
world. The teaching of the HERMETIC pagan cult sound quite 
familiar to those who are acquainted with the doctrine 
taught by Jesus, by John the Beloved, by Paul, and by 
Joseph Smith, the American Prophet".

Sorry, but only the teachings of the latter sound familiar. 
Nowhere in the BIBLE do we find GOD saying man can reach 
godhood. Yes, we do find such a teaching in the BIBLE --- 
yet it is Satan who is doing the talking !!

Computers For Christ prays that this has been interesting
and has opened your eyes to the false nature of the Mormon
teachings. Leave us a message at termination if you wish us
to mail you any additional material.
** END OF TEXT **

                   TEN REASONS WHY I CANNOT BE A MORMON 
                           by Rev. John Hornok 

1.  MORMONISM DOES NOT TEACH THAT THE BIBLE IS THE INFALLIBLE WORK OF 
GOD.  "We believe the Bible to the the Word of God as far as it is 
translated correctly; we also believe the book of Mormon to be the 
word of God"  (Articles of Faith, No. 8). 

    As Christians we believe the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New 
Testaments to the the verbally inspired Word of God, the final 
authority for faith and life, inerrant in the original writings, 
infallible and God-breathed (2 Tim. 3:16-17; 2 Pet. 1:20-21; Matt 
5:18). 

2.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT GOD IS AN EXALTED MAN AND HAS A PHYSICAL 
BODY.  "God himself was once as we are now, and is an exalted man" 
(Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pg. 345).  "The Father has a 
body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's..." (Doc. & Cov., Sec. 
131:22) 

    The Bible says, "God is not a man..." (Num. 23:19).  "God is a 
Spirit; and they that worship Him must worship Him in spirit and in 
truth" (John 4:24).  "A spirit hath not flesh and bones..." (Lk. 
24:39). 

3.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT CHRIST AND THE DEVIL ARE BROTHERS. "...that 
Lucifer, the son of morning, is our elder brother and the brother of 
Jesus Christ"  (Mormon Doctrine by Bruce McConkie, pp. 163-4). 

    The Bible says that the devil is a created being, created by God. 
"thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast created, 
till iniquity was found in thee"  (Ezekiel 28:15).  "For by Him 
(Christ) were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in 
earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, of dominions, 
or principalities, or powers; all things were created by Him and for 
Him..."  (Col. 1:15-17). 

4.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT JESUS WAS MARRIED AND THE HE IS POLYGAMOUS. 
"We say it was Jesus Christ who was married at Cana of Galilee" 
(Journal of Discourses, Vol 2, p. 80).  Mormonism teaches that Jesus 
was the natural child of Adam and Mary.  "When the Virgin Mary 
conceived the Child Jesus....He was not begotten by the Holy Ghost. 
And who is his Father?  He is the first of the human family" (Brigham 
Young, Journal of Discourses, pp. 50-51). 

    The Bible says, "In the beginning was the Word (Christ), and the 
Word was with God, and the Word was God;...The Word was made flesh and 
dwelt among us..."  (John 1:1, 14).  "Then Mary said unto the angel, 
How shall this be, seeing that I know not a man?  And the angel 
answered... The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee..."(Lk. 1:34-35). 

5.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT THE TRUE CHURCH CEASED TO EXIST UNTIL IT 
WAS RESTORED TO JOSEPH SMITH.  The church (LDS) was restored April 6, 
1830 by Joseph Smith (Doc. & Cov., 20:1). 

    Jesus Christ said, "I will build my church and the gates of hell 
shall not prevail against it" (Matt. 16:18).  "for other foundation 
can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ" (1 Cor. 
3:11).  "...And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and 
prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone" (Eph. 
2:20). 

6.  MORMONISM TEACHES ANOTHER (PERVERTED) GOSPEL THAN THAT OF THE 
BIBLE.  The gospel to Mormonism is:  "Faith, Repentance, Baptism, 
Receiving the Holy Spirit by laying on of hands, Morality, Loyalty, 
Tithing, Word of Wisdom, Duty Celestial Marriage (for eternity)" (LDS 
chart of FREE AGENCY and Articles of Faith, No. 4). 

    The Bible says, "Moreover brethren, I declare unto you the gospel 
that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to 
the scriptures"  (1 Cor. 15:1, 3-4).  "if any man preach any other 
gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed" (Gal. 
1:9). 

7.  MORMONISM TEACHES SALVATION FOR THE THE DEAD BY PROXY WATER 
BAPTISM.  This doctrine is based on one misunderstood Scripture: "Else 
what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise 
not at all?  Why are they then baptized for the dead?" (1 Cor. 15:29). 

    Paul did not practice baptism for the dead.  He excluded himself 
by using the pronoun "they" rather than "we" or "ye".  He is asking a 
question rather than making a statement.  "It is appointed unto man 
once to die, but after this the judgment" (Heb. 9:27). 

8.  MORMONISM TEACHES GENEALOGICAL RESEARCH FOR THE DEAD.  "Let us, 
therefore, as a church and a people, and as Latter-day Saints, offer 
unto the Lord an offering in righteousness; and let us present in his 
holy temple, when it is finished, a book containing the records of our 
dead, which shall be worth of all acceptation" (Doc. & Cov., Sec. 
128:24). 

    The Bible says, "Neither give heed to fables and endless 
genealogies" (1 Tim. 1:4).  "but avoid foolish question and 
genealogies..." (Titus 3:9). 

9.  MORMONISM TEACHES THAT THERE ARE MODERN DAY PROPHETS AND MODERN 
DAY REVELATIONS FROM GOD.  Mormonism claims that Joseph Smith received 
the Aaronic Priesthood from John the Baptist.  The Melchizedek 
Priesthood and Apostleship was restored by Peter, James and John 
shortly afterwards in 1829 (Doc. & Cov., Sec. 13). 

    The Bible says, "God...hath in these last days spoken unto us by 
his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he 
made the worlds" (Heb. 1:1-2).  The test of a prophet is given in 
Deut. 18:20-22. 

10. MORMONISM TEACHES THAT SALVATION DEPENDS UPON GOOD WORKS AND 
ACCEPTANCE OF JOSEPH SMITH.  "No man who rejects the testimony of 
Joseph Smith can enter the kingdom of God" (Doctrines of Salvation, 
vol. 1 pg. 190).  "Men have work to do it they would obtain salvation" 
(Doctrines of Salvation. vol. 3, pg 91). 

    The Bible teaches that salvation is provided by Jesus Christ 
alone, "for there is none other name under heaven given among men, 
whereby we must be saved" (Acts 4:10-12).  "For by grace are ye saved 
through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God.  Not 
of works, lest any man should boast" (Eph. 2:8-9). 




X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

                 Divine Truths in the Book of Mormon 

    Anyone visited by a Mormon Missionary has heard the Elder's 
testimony concerning the Book of Mormon:  That he knows this book is 
the Word of God and that the founder of the Mormon Church, Joseph 
Smith, Jr., translated it by the gift and power of God.  Further, the 
prospect is encouraged sincerely to study the Book of Mormon and "The 
divine truths it contains." 
    The Book of Mormon indeed does contain a number of "divine truths", 
first set forth in the Bible, the most important of which are: 

1. GOD IS SPIRIT 

    Alma 18:28 (p. 242) - "Believest, thou that this Great Spirit, who 
is God, created all things". 

2. TRINITARIAN VIEW OF GOD 

     3 Nephi 11:27 (p. 422) - "Verily I say unto you, that the Father 
and the Son and the Holy Ghost are one."  In addition, three close 
associates of Joseph Smith who gave testimony of the authenticity of 
the Book of Mormon, close with words: "And the honor be to the Father, 
and to the Son and to the Holy Ghost, WHICH IS ONE GOD. Amen." 
(emphasis added)  This endorsement is found in the front of every Book 
of Mormon and further documents the Book of Mormon's acknowledgement 
of the triune nature of God. 

3. GOD IS UNCHANGEABLE 

    Moroni 8:18 (p. 517) - "For I know that God is not a partial God, 
neither a changeable being; but he is unchangeable from all eternity 
to all eternity." 

4. NO SALVATION AFTER DEATH 

    Mosiah 3:25 (p. 141) - "And if they be evil they are consigned to 
an awful view of their own guilt and abominations, which doth cause 
them to shrink from the presence of the Lord into a state of misery 
and endless torment, from whence they can no more return; therefore 
they have drunk damnation to their own souls." 

5. ONLY TWO DESTINATIONS AFTER DEATH 

    Mosiah 16:11 (p. 166) - "If they be good, to the resurrection of 
endless life and happiness; and if they be evil, to the resurrection 
of endless damnation." 

6. SALVATION BY CHRIST"S WORK - NOT MAN'S 

    Helaman 5:9 (p. 369) - "...remember that there is no other way nor 
means whereby men can be saved, only through the atoning blood of 
Jesus Christ, who shall come, yea, remember that he cometh to redeem 
the world." 


    The Book of Mormon also emphasizes the need for spiritual rebirth.  
For example Alma 5:14 states "And now behold, I ask of you, my 
brethren of the church, have ye spiritually been born of God?  Have ye 
received his image in your countenances?  Have ye experienced this 
mighty change in your hearts?" 
    Much of the major theology set forth in the Book of Mormon is 
indeed in harmony with orthodox Christianity.  However, many who are 
visited by the LDS Missionaries are unaware that the present theology 
of the Mormon Church is very different from their own Book of Mormon. 
Further, not only are today's major doctrines different, they are in 
total opposition with this work of Joseph Smith, Jr., for which he 
claimed divine inspiration. 

    Mormon theology is not contained in, but rather contradicted by 
the Book of Mormon.  The members of the Mormon Church now turn to 
newer publications and revelations for their beliefs.  A brief 
examination of some of these will document the contradictions. 

1. Mormonism today teaches "The Father has a body of flesh and bones 
as tangible as man's" (Doctrine & Covenants 130:22). 

2. Joseph Smith, later in his life, flatly denied the Trinity: "Many 
men say there is one God, the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost are 
one God!  I saw that is a strange God anyhow - three in one, and one 
in three!"  He further concludes that the Father, Son and the Holy 
Ghost are not one God, but rather three Gods (History of the Church 
6:474, 476). 

3. The LDS Church no longer adheres to the unchangeable nature of God, 
but rather states:  "God himself was once as we are now and is an 
exalted man... We have imagined and supposed that God was God from all 
eternity.  I will refute that idea and take away the veil, so that you 
may see".  (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 345). 

4. Bruce R. McConkie announces on page 73 of his work, 'Mormon 
Doctrine':  "The Lord has ordained baptism for the dead as the means 
whereby all his worthy children of all ages can become heirs of 
salvation in his kingdom." 

5. Mormonism today informs its members that all mankind will occupy 
one of three heavenly kingdoms.  The highest is the Celestial Kingdom 
(which itself contains various levels).  This kingdom is reserved for 
all faithful Mormons and could lead to Godhood for the male members 
there.  The middle Kingdom, the Terrestrial Kingdom, is for those who 
did not accept the gospel according to Mormonism, but who lived an 
honorable life.  The lowest or Telestial Kingdom still contains 
murderers, adulterers, liars and thieves.  (Doctrine & Covenants 
section 76).  Hell in Mormonism is usually thought to be only a 
temporary state of suffering, which can be terminated through self-
atonement.  In summary, all will be resurrected and receive some 
degree of glory, according to Mormonism. 

6. Mormons believe not in the infinite atonement of Christ, but rather 
that "redemption from personal sins can only be obtained through 
obedience to the requirements of the Gospel, AND A LIFE OF GOOD 
WORKS."  (emphasis added) (Talmage, Articles of Faith pgs. 478-479) 

    These changes and contradictions contained within these easily 
available LDS Scriptures leave no doubt as to the human, man made 
origin of Mormonism. 
    While Mormons regard the Bible as the Word of God, the Bible is 
actually placed lower and superseded by their other Scriptures, which 
in addition to the Book of Mormon include the Doctrine & Covenants and 
the Pearl of Great Price.  This devaluation of the Bible is found 
within the LDS Articles of Faith, in the Pearl of Great Price, where 
it is stated that Mormons "believe the Bible in so far as it is 
correctly translated." 
    God's word, the Bible, has definitely stood the test of time, 
whereas in its short existence the Book of Mormon has not.  The Bible, 
has been used by and confirmed by archeology, - the Book of Mormon has 
not.  The Bible, has through recent ancient manuscript discoveries, 
been demonstrated to have been transmitted and translated accurately, 
where the Book of Mormon contains nearly 4000 textual changes from the 
first edition in 1830 to the present editions used today, and has 
received further changes in the new 1981 "Triple Combination" edition. 
    The presence of "Divine Truths" within the Book of Mormon is 
merely a result of Joseph Smith, Jr. incorporating much of the Bible 
into his work.  (see 'The use of the Bible in the Book of Mormon by H. 
Michael Marquardt).  Thus, the Book of Mormon must be regarded as 
fiction, not as inspired Scripture. 
    Changes within Mormonism and the Book of Mormon make it clear that 
Mormonism is not from God.  God's word does not change.  Jesus Christ 
is the same yesterday, today and forever (Hebrews 13:8) and His Word 
shall never pass away (Psalm 119:89; Matthew 24:35).  The Jesus Christ 
who shed his blood on Calvary's cross to save you is not the Jesus of 
present-day Mormonism.  Jesus invites all people to experience a 
spiritual rebirth and to receive the free gift of eternal life by 
trusting in him alone for salvation. 

    Write to us and let us share with you more information concerning 
our Risen Saviour Jesus Christ and how you can receive Him. 


 PERSONAL FREEDOM OUTREACH 

 Route 3 Weir Lake Rd., Kunkletown, PA. 18058  (215) 381-3661 
 P.O. Box 26062, Saint Louis, MO.  63136  (314) 388-2648 
 P.O. Box 30073, Phoenix, AZ.  85046  (602)867-0538 
 P.O. Box 15081, Santa Ana, CA.  92705  (714) 832-9385 


Information from the 

                NATIONAL MUSEUM OF OF NATURAL HISTORY 
               Smithsonian Institution  Washington D.C. 

    Your recent inquiry concerning the Book of Mormon has been 
received in the Smithsonian's Department of Anthropology. 

    The book of Mormon is a religious document and not a scientific 
guide.  The Smithsonian Institution does not use it in archeological 
research.  Because the Smithsonian Institution receives many inquiries 
regarding the book of Mormon, we have prepared a "Statement Regarding 
the Book of Mormon," a copy of which is enclosed for your information. 
This statement includes answers to questions most commonly asked about 
the Book of Mormon. 


                             PREPARED BY 
                    THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY 
                STATEMENT REGARDING THE BOOK OF MORMON 
                --------------------------------------

1.  The Smithsonian Institution has never used the Book of Mormon in 
any way as a scientific guide.  The Smithsonian archaeologists see no 
direct connection between archeology of the New World and the subject 
matter of the book. 

2.  The physical type of American Indian is basically Mongoloid, being 
most closely related to that of the peoples of eastern, central, and 
northeastern Asia.  Archeological evidence indicates that the 
ancestors of the present Indians came into the New World -- probably 
over a land bridge known to have existed in the Bering Strait region 
during the last Ice Age -- in a continuing series of small migrations 
beginning from about 25,000 to 30,000 years ago. 

3.  Present evidence indicates that the fist people to reach this 
continent from the East were the Norsemen who who briefly visited the 
northeastern part of North America around A.D. 1000 and then settled 
in Greenland.  There is nothing to show that they reached Mexico or 
Central America. 

4.  One of the main lines of evidence supporting the scientific 
finding that contacts with Old World civilizations, if indeed they 
occurred at all, were of very little significance for the development 
of American Indian civilizations, is the fact that none of the 
principal Old World domesticated food plants or animals (except the 
dog) occurred in the New World in pre-Columbian times.  American 
Indians had no wheat, barley, oats, millet, rice, cattle, pigs, 
chickens, horses, donkeys, camels before 1492.  (camels and horses 
were in the Americas, along with the bison, mammoth, mastodon, but all 
these animals became extinct around 10,000 B.C. at the time the early 
big game hunters spread across the Americas.) 

5.  Iron, steel, glass, and silk were not used in the New World before 
1492 (except for occasional use of unsmelted meteoric iron).  Native 
copper was worked in various locations in pre-Columbian times, but 
true metallurgy was limited to southern Mexico and the Andean region, 
where its occurrance in late prehistoric times involved gold, silver, 
copper, and their alloys, but not iron. 

6.  There is a possibility that the spread of cultural traits across 
the Pacific to Mesoamerica and the northwestern coast of South America 
began several hundred years before the Christian era.  However, any 
such inter-hemispheric contacts appear to have been the results of 
accidental voyages originating in eastern and southern Asia.  It is by 
no means certain that even such contacts occurred with the ancient 
Egyptians, Hebrews, or other peoples of Western Asia and the Near 
East. 

7.  No reputable Egyptologist or other specialist on Old World 
archeology, and no expert on New World prehistory, has discovered or 
confirmed any relationship between archeological remains in Mexico and 
archeological remains in Egypt. 

8.  Reports of findings of ancient Egyptian, Hebrew, and other Old 
World writings in the New World in pre-Columbian contexts have 
frequently appeared in newspapers, magazines and sensational books. 
None of these claims has stood up to examination by reputable 
scholars.  No inscriptions using Old World forms of writing have been 
shown to have occurred in any part of the Americas before 1492 except 
for a few Norse rune stones which have been found in Greenland. 

9.  There are copies of the Book of Mormon in the library of the 
National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution. 


NOTE: This article is an exact reproduction of a letter compiled by 
The Smithsonian Institution that was received by Computers for Christ, 
and has been graciously provided free of charge by them. 

For your own copy, write to: 

 The Smithsonian Institute 
 National Museum of Natural History 
 Department of Anthropology 
 Washington D.C.  20560 


 Computers For Christ, Panama City, Fl. 



