
Date:  12-26-89  22:25
From:  Paul Hume
To:    All
Subj:  Archangels

EID:5980 139ab334
 Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.
 For those who have expressed an interest, here are the images I use for
 the Archangels in the Quarters.  I trust not too badly mauled by the
 vagaries of the text processor available on my Apple II...
  
 Raphael:  Fair skin, blonde hair, delicate but strong features.  Dressed in
  yellow robe shot with mauve threads.  He holds a Caduceus.  Raphael stands
  lightly upon a spring-green field, wet with dew.  The rising Sun backlights
him in pure, golden/white morning light.  His wings are white with gold
  highlights.
      
 Gabriel:  This is the one that may seem wierdest.   Sea-green hair, pale
blue
  skin, in a scaled robe of blue with orange highlights.  His features are
  aquiline - classical Roman.  He bears a great Cup.  He stands above the
  billowing waves of the sea, backlit in Orange light by the setting Sun. His
  wings are white with blue-green highlights.
      
 Michael:  He stands in the desert, or sometimes a sun-baked field of bare
  soil, under the blazing noonday sun.  Red hair, golden-tan face, strong,
  square features.  Red metallic robe with green highlights flashing from it.
   He bears a great sword two-handed.  His arms and shoulders are those of a
  warrior.  Wings are coppery.
      
 Auriel:  Auriel stands on the mountains - black, silent, snowcapped - but
  looking down over a fertile valley, filled with crops and lowing cattle and
  bleating sheep.  He is dressed in simple robes, almost homespun, of the
four
  Earth colors, russet predominating.  He bears a platter of the fruits of
the
  soil, and I often see Him bearing a shepherd's crook or staff.  It is night
  yet cold, silver light illuminates the scene - whether from the Moon or
"the
  midnight Sun" I cannot yet tell.  Auriel has dark hair, Mediterranean
  complexion, a half-round, half-square face with a pleasant smile.  His
wings
  are dark - black with bluish highlights, like a raven's.
      
 Mostly, I just get a hint of the Archangelic image.  Instead, the Solar
image
  of the Quarter (rising, setting, noonday, etc.) floods the circle with the
  appropriate color of light.  I also usually feel a breeze from Raphael, a
  humid tingling sensation from Gabriel, prickling heat from Michael, and
  solid, massive stability from Auriel.
  
 Well - not too bad apart from some oddities in the line wraps... Gods
 I hate trying to get from an Apple WP prog, either Mac or II, into
 flat ASCII - always some crud crops up.
 Hope these are of some use.  Love is the law, love under will.
 Paul
--- ConfMail V3.31
 * Origin: Zonzr - Fairfax, Va  703 845-1125   Opus 1.03b (1:109/114)
