7 Important Questions Boys and Girls Ask...

1. WHO IS GOD?

God lives in Heaven. He made the earth, the stars, the animals and people. He
made everything and knows everything. God is good.

"For God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that
whosoever believeth in Him should not perish but have everlasting life" John
3:16.

2. WHO IS JESUS?

Jesus is God's Son who has never sinned. Jesus, who lived in Heaven, came to
live on earth. He loves you and wants you to go to Heaven... He does not want
you to go to Hell. So, He died on a cross to take away your sins. He was
buried. Then after three days He came out of the grave and went back to
Heaven, where He lives now.

3. WHERE DID WE COME FROM?

God made all people. The first man and women were named Adam and Eve. God was
their friend and He gave them a beautiful garden to live in.

God made everything and everyone in the whole world. He made YOU. "In the
beginning God created the heaven and the earth." Gen. 1:1

4. WHO IS THE DEVIL?

The devil was a bad angel. He hated God and wanted His power. That was sin.
God told the devil he could no longer be one of God's angels. So He is God's
enemy.

5. WHAT IS SIN?

Sin means to go against God's word. The devil tries to make us go against
God's word.

One day the devil came to Eve in the garden and told her to eat some fruit
from a certain tree... which God had told her not to do!

The devil lied. He said, "You won't die if you eat the fruit!" So Eve ate the
fruit and gave some to Adam.

Everyone has sinned. You have sinned.

"All have sinned" Romans 3:23.

6. WHAT HAPPENS WHEN PEOPLE DIE?

God must punish sin. So He tells us in His Book the Bible, what that
punishment will be. He says, "The wages of sin is death" Romans 6:23. All who
have sinned will go to a place called Hell when they die. There is much sorrow
and pain there.

But if you ask Jesus to forgive your sins, He will take you to Heaven. Heaven
is a wonderful place where there is no pain or sorrow or death. It is full of
happiness.

"For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved." Romans
10:13.

7. HOW CAN YOU GO TO HEAVEN?

Jesus said you must believe that He died and rose again to take away your
sins. Receive Him now as your Saviour. When you do, He will forgive you and
cleanse you from sin and take you to heaven when you die. "As many as received
Him to them gave he power to become the sons of God.." John 1:12

"...ye must be born again." John 3:7

By Paul J. Levin

HERE IS HOW TO PRAY

"Dear Heavenly Father, I love you. I thank you for sending your son Jesus to
die for me on the cross. I ask you now to forgive me of my sins. I receive
your son Jesus into my heart. I want to live and work for you. Thank you for
taking away my sins. In the name of Jesus. Amen."

Reprint permission was granted to Computers for Christ #22 for the expressed
purpose of posting this tract in electronic form. Please DO NOT modify this 
file nor distribute hard copies of this file. 

Printed copies for distribution are available from the Gospel Tract Society 
for a donation. 

The Gospel Tract Society is supported by our contributions. Please help them 
continue their work by sending them a contribution today.

 The Gospel Tract Society, Inc.
 P.O. Box 1118
 Independence, MO 64061


