TEENAGERS

Are you having problems in your life? Do you have questions that no one can 
seem to answer? If you do, Jesus can change your life and give you the kind of 
happiness that you have never experienced before!!! In John 10:10 Jesus says, 
"... I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more 
abundantly." 

Are things such as drugs or sex taking control of your life? Are your friends 
pressuring you into doing things that you really don't want to do? 

Jesus Christ can help you conquer any problem that you may face in your life! 
The Bible says in Philippians, "I can do all things through Christ which 
strengtheneth me." We are promised in Romans 8:37, "Nay, in all these things 
we are more than conquerors through him that loved us." 

Are you having problems dealing with family troubles such as divorce or 
separation? If so, Jesus can help you through the problem, and help you do 
something about it. Jesus knows there's going to be trouble in your life and 
that is why in Psalm 46:1 the Bible promises us that "God is our refuge and 
strength, a very present help in trouble." In Philippians 4:6-7, it says, "Be 
careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication with 
thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God. And the peace of God, 
which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through 
Christ Jesus." Prayer is a very powerful tool if only you take advantage of 
it. 

There is no question of whether or not you need Jesus. But accepting Him is 
your choice. Jesus can change your life, and in every respect make it better. 
Jesus says in Revelation 3:20, "Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any 
man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him." If you want to 
accept Jesus into your heart, and have Him become the master of your life, 
pray this prayer: 

"Jesus, I really need you in my life. I know that I've sinned against you, 
please forgive me. I know that you died for me. I now dedicate the rest of my 
life to you. Jesus, I love you! Amen." 

Now that you have found true happiness in Jesus, won't you care enough to tell 
your friends how they, too, can find happiness in Jesus. 

Written by Scott A. Kelsey, February 1, 1986. 

Scott Allen Kelsey was shot accidentally by his hunting companion on Sunday, 
February 9, 1986. He went to meet the Lord February 10, 1986. He was 17 years 
old and was a Senior at Independence Christian School in Independence, 
Missouri. He was an active member of his church youth group and was a blessing 
to everyone who knew him. The week before his death he wrote this tract as an 
assignment for his Bible class. This was his message to all teenagers and 
adults alike. This tract is in memory of Scott A. Kelsey, in hope that is will 
help teenagers and adults to accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. 

Reprint permission was granted to Computers for Christ #22 for the expressed
purpose of posting this tract in electronic form. Please DO NOT modify this 
file nor distribute hard copies of this file. 

Printed copies for distribution are available from the Gospel Tract Society 
for a donation. 

The Gospel Tract Society is supported by our contributions. Please help them 
continue their work by sending them a contribution today.

 The Gospel Tract Society, Inc.
 P.O. Box 1118
 Independence, MO 64061



