AWAKEN                                           ISSUE #1

QUESTIONS WHICH THE LEADERS OF THE JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES 
WILL NEVER ANSWER.

By: RICH GRIESE                     


Below is a list of questions that I had sent to the Watchtower
Bible & Tract Society Governing Body, in April 1991.  I have yet to
receive a response.  

Question #1
Can individuals read & understand the Bible alone, or do they need an
organization and it's publications to do so?

Question #2
Can Jehovah's Witness hold and discuss openly with other Jehovah's
Witnesses opinions that differ from orthodox Watch Tower doctrine?  Is
there any valid reason for a person to decide that he does not wish to
belong to the Jehovah's Witnesses?

Question #3
What is God's proper name "Yahweh" or "Jehovah"?  if "Yahweh" is more
proper, is it showing the proper respect to "Yahweh" to say that
because "Jehovah" is more commonly used it does not matter how you
pronounce the name?  And, should an religion that puts so much
emphasis on the name of God use any other version than the proper
pronunciation?

Question #4
Did President Fred Franz get an Rhodes Scholarship offer from the
Rhodes Scholarship organization?  If not, why did he testify under
oath that he was offered one, and why was this information published
in Watch Tower publications?

Question #5
Did the Watch Tower and the Governing Body currently teach that
Armageddon will come before the close of the twentieth century
according to information published in the January 1, 1989 Watch Tower?
Also, why were the dates in the article changed to not be specific to
the twentieth century when it was published in the bound form at the
end of the year?

Question #6
Did the Watch Tower and the Governing body believe and publish
information that Jesus's 1000 year millenial reign would take place in
1975?

Question #7
Did the Watch Tower and the Governing Body believe that in or around
1925 there would be an awakening of Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, and
others mentioned in the eleventh chapter of Hebrews, and that there
would be an end to death at that time?

Question #8
Did the Watch Tower and the Governing Body believe that the year 1914
was the beginning of the Armageddon of the Scriptures?

Question #9
Is any portion of the Watch Tower or the Governing Body to be
considered a prophet of God, or the voice of God?  Do the Governing
Body or its associated corporations have better information from God
or have a more direct channel to or from God's thoughts than others?
If this is true why has God changed his opinion, based on Watchtower
teachings, so many times in Watch Tower history?

Question #10
Why were the Jehovah's Witnesses in Mexico at one time told to not use
Bibles, not hold prayers, not sing religious songs, and deny that they
were part of a religious group, but were simply part of a "Cultural"
group even though religious groups were not in any way prohibited by
the Mexican government at the time?  Did it have anything to do with
the Watch Tower or the Governing Body's desire to own property in
Mexico, which was prohibited under Mexican law, rather than be known
as a religion?

Question #11
Was Beth-Sarim, the Mansion owned and operated by the Watchtower Bible
& Tract Society in San Diego and used by Joe Rutherford in the 1920's
built as a residence for Enoch and other holy men from the Bible when
they were expected to rise from the dead in 1925 by the Watch Tower?

Rich Griese
        --------------------------------------------

Mr. Griese has researched the Watchtower's teachings. In future
issues of AWAKEN, we will bring you the results of his findings.

Please share the info found in these issues of AWAKEN with other
members of the faith to which you belong. Consider using this
info within publications issued to members of your faith. One
example is to use this info within Church bulletins. People need
to become informed about the Watchtower and it's teachings. Why ?
Jehovah's Witnesses go door to door preaching whatever the
Watchtower has told them to preach. The are trained weekly to
respond to any and all objections to their preaching. They are
told by the Watchtower that the Watchtower is the only TRUTH
and that the Watchtower is the only TRUE religion. They are 
told by the Watchtower that all other faiths, teach
false teachings because all other faiths are agents of SATAN.
They have no qualms attacking any and all aspects your belief
system, when they come on their un-asked for visits. They are
trained to SELL you on the Watchtower's teachings, just as they
themselves had been SOLD. 

By becoming informed about the Jehovah's Witnesses, one will be 
better prepared to decide whether one should get invloved with 
this group.
 
Copyright (c) 1991 by Vince Banial, Toronto Ontario Canada.
This material cannot be incorporated into any book without the
empress and written permission of Vince Banial. This file may be 
freely uploaded to any BBS, as long as it remains unchanged.  
