AWAKEN                                           ISSUE #6
 


JEHOVAH GOD INFORMS THE FOLLOWERS OF THE WATCH TOWER TO
JOIN IN AND CELEBRATE CHRISTMAS DAY ASWELL AS INFORMING
THEM OF SUITABLE GIFTS.



ZION'S WATCH TOWER, Dec. 15, 1903, pg. 457:
"This review is perhaps as appropriate a lesson for the closing
 Sunday of the year as any, especially when we remember that all
 of these glories and blessings and priviledges are ours because
 of the great redemption work accomplished by him whose entrance
 upon the work is celebrated by Christmas day. Although we cannot
 agree that this is the proper day for celebrating the birth of
 dear Redemeer, but must insist that it was about October first,
 nevertheless, since he did not intimate his desire that we
 should celebrate his birthday it is quite immaterial upon what
 day that event, of so great importance to all, is celebrated.
 Upon this day, so generally celebrated, we may properly enough
 join with all whose hearts are in the attitude of love and
 appreciation toward God and toward the Saviour.
 
 The habit of giving little remembrances one to another at this
 time of year seems to us specially appropriate."



ZION'S WATCH TOWER, Dec. 01, 1904, pg. 364 :
"Even though Christmas is not the real anniversary of our Lord's
 birth, but more properly the annunciation day or the date of his
 human begetting (Luke 1:28), nevertheless, since the celebration
 of our Lord's birth is not a matter of divine appointment or
 injunction, but merely a tribute of respect to him, it is not
 necessary for us to quibble perticularily about the date. We may
 as well join with the civilized world in celebrating the grand
 event on the day which the majority celebrate - "Christmas day.""

 

ZION'S WATCH TOWER, Nov. 15, 1907, pg. 351:
"  "SCRIPTURE STUDIES" AS CHRISTMAS GIFTS
 Dear Friends :-
    It might interest you to know that we are already
 offering the books for "Christmas gifts." We find that
 many secure their Christmas presents several months
 ahead, and that this month is the one in which many
 are very please to secure "such a beautiful, appropri-
 ate, and above all such a reasonable [in price] gift !"
 Often we can get orders for several sets in one home,
 in view of the fact that the books make such splendid
 gifts. Today we got more than one order on this ac-
 count. We mention this because we think it might
 help wonderfully during the next six weeks in securing
 orders from people who would perhaps not buy for
 their own use. We say "Many are taking them for
 gifts, and it is of course a compliment to a friend's in-
 telligence to give him a book, especially a work of 
 this kind, and you get the entire three for only 98 cents!""



THE WATCH TOWER, Jan. 15, 1919, pg. 32 :
"                    A MESSAGE OF GRATITUDE
 To THE DEAR FRIENDS EVERYWHERE:-
   Grace, mercy and peace be multiplied unto you!
   Am taking advantage of an opportunity to dictate this note
 to extend to all the dear friends throughout the United Sates
 and Canada my heartfelt thanks for the great love bestowed
 upon us and manifested in the numerous Christmas presents
 which I and my associates have received, as well as cards,
 letters and messages of love. May the Lord bless you one
 and all !
   I am unable to write you personally, and so am asking that
 this general message be given you. I am overwhelmed by 
 you expressions of love, dear brethren. May the Lord re-
 ward you richly !
               Your brother and servant by his grace.
                                       J. F. RUTHERFORD."

NOTE - J.F. Rutherford was the President of the Watch Tower Bible
       and Tract Society of Pennsylvania, when the above letter
       was printed in the pages of The Watch Tower.



THE WATCH TOWER, Dec. 15, 1926, pg. 371:
"Students of the Scriptures also know that the birth of the
 babe Jesus did not take place in December; yet because of the
 general belief upon this point by most people, it seems to be
 an appropriate time to speak the truth concerning his birth
 and the purpose thereof. The Scriptural testimony, supported
 by extranous facts, shows that the birth of Jesus occured
 approximately October 1st. The event is so important that it
 is always appropriate to call it to the minds of the people,
 regradless of the date."



1975 YEARBOOK OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES, page 147 & 148:
"Yes, in those early days, dedicated Christians commemorated
 birthdays. Well then, why not celebrate the supposed brithday
 of Jesus ? This they also did for many years. In Pastor Russell's
 day, Christmas was celebrated at the old Bible house in 
 Allegheny, Pennsylvania. Ora Sullivan Wakefield recalls that
 Brother Russell gave members of the Bible House family five-
 or ten-dollar gold peices at Christmas. Mabel P. M. Philbrick
 remarks: "A custom that certainly would not be carried on today
 was the celebration of Christmas with a Christmas tree in the
 Bethel dining room. Brother Russell's usual 'Good morning, all'
 was changed to 'Merry Christmas, all.'""


THE WATCH TOWER, 01/15/1917, p 22: 
"Following the election Brother Rutherford, addressing the the meeting, 
 said in part:..."The Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society is the 
 greatest corporation in the world, because from the time of its 
 organization until now the Lord has used it as his channel through 
 which to make known the glad tidings...".
 


1939 YEARBOOK OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES, P 85: 
"It should be expected that the Lord would have a means of 
 communicating to his people on the earth, and he has clearly shown 
 that the magazine called The Watch Tower is used for that purpose."



--------------------------------------------------------------------

NEW YORK KING'S COUNTY CLERKS'S COURT RECORD, 1940, vol. II, p 795:
Fred W. Franz on the witness stand:
"Q. Who subsequently becamse the Editor of the magazine, the main editor 
    of the "Watch Tower" magazine ?

A. In 1931, October 15th, as I recall, the "Watch Tower" discontinued
   publishing the names of any editorial committee on the second page.
 
THE COURT: He asked you who became the editor.
 
THE WITNESS: And it said --
 
THE COURT: Who became the editor ?
 
Q. Who became the editor when this was discontinued ?
 
A. Jehovah God."  

Fred W. Franz later became the President of the Watchtower Bible and
Tract Society and remains in that position to this day. So we see that
Jehovah God is the editor of the Watch Tower.



-------------------------------------------------------------------

Olin R. Moyle, v F.W.Franz, et al. Libel suit testimony, May 10th to
May 27th, 1943, New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division:
Fred W. Franz on the witness stand, sections 2596 & 2597 -
"Q. At any rate, Jehovah God is now the editor of the paper, is that
    right ?
 
A. He is today the editor of the paper.
 
Q. How long has he been editor of the paper ?
 
A. Since its inception he has been guiding it.
 
Q. Even before 1931 ?
 
A. Yes, sir."
 
Nathan Homer Knorr on the witness stand, at the same Olin Myle trial, 
sections 4420 & 4421 :
 
"Q. But you don't make any mention in the fore part of your Watch
    Tower that "We are not infallible and subject to correction and
    may make mistakes" ?
 
A. We have never claimed infallibility.
 
Q. But you don't make any such statement, that you are subject to
   correction, in your Watch Tower papers do you ?
 
A. Not that I recall.
 
Q. In fact, it is set forth directly as God's Word, isn't it ?
 
A. Yes, as His Word.
 
Q. Without any qualification whatsoever ?
 
A. That is right.".
 

NOTE - that at the time of the above trial, Mr. Nathan H. Knorr
       was already the President of the Watch Tower Society.

-------------------------------------------------------------------


So we see that Mr Fred W. Franz, the present president of the Watch
Tower, stated under oath in a court of law that Jehovah God was the 
editor of The Watch Tower since it's inception.

So we see that Mr. Nathan H. Knorr, while he was president of the
Watch Tower, stated under oath in a court of law that The Watch Tower 
is set forth directly as God's Word.

So we see that from the time of its organization until now God has
used The Watch Tower as his channel through which to make known the 
glad tidings.

If one is to believe the Watch Tower, then one must believe that
Jehovah God has made errors. It seems that it was Jehovah God's fault
for editing the Watch Tower incorrectly. It seems that it was Jehovah
God who misguided The Watch Tower since The Watch Tower is set forth
directly as God's word. It seems that Jehovah God made mistaken tidings
known to The Watch Tower since it is Jehovah God's channel through which
tidings are made known.
 
If Jehovah God was not wrong then why do Jehovah's Witnesses no longer
celebrate Christmas ? Surely, Jehovah God would not have informed his
followers via The Watch Tower to do something which was wrong! Surely,
Jehovah God knew history and knew the background about Decemeber 25th.

Why did Jehovah God tell the readers of the Watch Tower that :
" Upon this day, so generally celebrated, we may properly enough
 join with all whose hearts are in the attitude of love and
 appreciation toward God and toward the Saviour." ? 

Why did Jehovah God tell the readers of the Watch Tower that :
"it is not necessary for us to quibble perticularily about the date. 
 We may as well join with the civilized world in celebrating the grand
 event on the day which the majority celebrate - "Christmas day." ?

Why did Jehovah God encourage readers of the Watch Tower to give
Watch Tower publications as Christmas gifts ?

Why did Jehovah God tell the readers of the Watch Tower that the
giving of gifts was appropriate : " The habit of giving little 
remembrances one to another at this time of year seems to us 
specially appropriate." ?

Could it be that Jehovah God was not then or ever the editor of any
Watch Tower publication ?
 
Could it be that The Watch Tower is not set forth directly as God's
word ?
 
Could it be that Jehovah God does not use the Watch Tower society as
God's channel for anykind of communications ?

Could it be that both Mr Franz and Mr Knorr had LIED about Jehovah God's
direction of the Watch Tower organization, while under oath ?

If Jehovah God is not editing the Watch Tower, then it must be edited
by normal humans ? If Jehovah God's ideas are not directly being printed
in the Watch Tower, then it must be normal human ideas which are being
presented as coming from Jehovah God ? If Jehovah God is not using the
Watch Tower as his only channel of communications, then for whom is the
Watch Tower channelling ?


I'll now quote from the Watchtower book called MAN'S SALVATION
OUT OF WORLD DISTRESS AT HAND!, see page 136:
"Furthermore, the remnant of spiritual Israel had for decades,
yes, since the year 1876, been looking forward to the ending of the
Times of the Gentiles in the autumn of 1914. They were expressing
God's Messianic kingdom to be fully established in the heavens
by then and also for the remnant of spiritual Israel to be
glorified with Jesus Christ in the heavenly kingdom at that time.
All understanding of the Holy scriptures was slanted in that
direction or adjusted to that idea. And when the year 1941 ended
amid the flames of World War I and the remnant of spiritual Israel
found themselves still here on earth, then they were inclined to 
think that they would be glorified in the year 1918, three and a
half years after the end of the Gentile Times."
NOTE: the book from which this quote was taken was printed in 1975.
 
The fact is stated clearly by the Watchtower that these spiritual
Israelites "SLANTED" their understanding of the Holy Scriptures or
they "ADJUSTED" the Holy Scriptures to that idea. The title 
Spiritual Israelites is just another name for followers of the 
Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. Is that any way 
for GOD's only channel of communication and GOD's prophet to behave ? 

This is clear evidence that the Watchtower SLANTED and ADJUSTED
the Holy Scriptures to their own ideas. If they did it in the past,
how are you to know that they have stopped doing such things ?
 

Quoting again from "1975 YEARBOOK OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES", pg. 146:
"God's people had to adjust their thinking about 1925, for instance.
 Expectations of restoration and blessing were attached to it
 because they felt that that year would mark then end of seventy
 jubilees of fifty years each since the Israelites had entered
 Canaan. (Lev. 25:1-12) A.D. Schroeder states : "It was thought that
 then the remenant of Christ's anointed followers would go to heaven
 to be part of the Kingdom and that the faithful men of old, such as
 Abraham, David and others would be resurrected as princes to take
 over the government of the earth as part of God's kingdom."
 
 The year 1925 came and went. Jesus' anointed followers were still on
 earth as a class. The faithful men of old times - Abraham, David and
 others - had not been resurrected to become princes in the earth. (Ps.
 45:16) So, as Anna MacDonald recalls: "1925 was a sad year for many
 brothers. Some of them were stumbled; their hopes were dashed. They
 had hoped to see some of the 'ancient worthies' [men of old like
 Abraham] resurrected. Instead of its being considered a 'probability,'
 they read into it that it was a 'certainty,' and some prepared for
 their own loved ones with expectancy of their resurrection."
 
So the Watch Tower uses someone's quote to wash itself of all
responsibility for the failed 1925 prophecy. Let's see what was actually
written in the Watch Tower publications. Let's see if the Watch Tower
implied a 'probability' or implied 'certainty'.

 
From the Watch Tower's book "MILLIONS NOW LIVING WILL NEVER DIE",
1920, pg. 89 & 90:
"Therefore we may confidently expect that 1925  will mark the return
 of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and the faithful prophets of old, particularly
 those named by the Apostle in Hebrews chapter eleven, to the condition
 of human perfection."


From the Watch Tower's book "MILLIONS NOW LIVING WILL NEVER DIE",
1920, pg. 97 :
"Based upon the arguement hereforth set forth, then, that the old order
 of things, the old world, is ending and is therefore passing away, and
 that the new order is coming in, and that 1925 shall mark the 
 resurrection of the faithful worthies of old and the beginning of 
 reconstruction, it is reasonable to conclude that that millions of people
 now on earth will be still on the earth in 1925. Then, based upon the
 promises set forth in the divine Word, we must reach the positive and
 indistputable conclusion that millions now living will never die."
 

THE WATCH TOWER, April 01, 1923, pg. 106:
"Our thought is, that 1925 is definitely settled by the Scriptures,
 marking then end of the typical jubilees."


THE WATCH TOWER, April 01, 1923, pg. 106:
"As to Noah, the Christian now has much more upon which to base his
 faith than Noah had (so far as the Scriptures reveal) upon which
 to base his faith in a coming deluge."
 

THE WATCH TOWER, July 15, 1924, pg. 211 :
"The year 1925 is a date definitely and clearly marked in the 
 Scriptures, even more clearly than that of 1914;"

ALL the words used did indicate 'certainty' and not 'probability', 
as one can see from reading the above. Was the Watch Tower trying to 
mislead people about what Jehovah God had told Watch Tower followers 
during the early 1920s ? It is clear, that Jehovah God directed the 
Watch Tower's followers with FALSE information regading 1925 ! How 
could Jehovah God have done such a thing ? Remember that Jehovah God 
is the editor at the Watch Tower.
 
Either that or this is another case of false teachings which originated
in humans but were presented as being from Jehovah God. In either case,
is this the type of religious organization with which one would want to
be involved with ? You can decide for yourself, but the facts speak for
themselves !
 
         -------------- end of issue #6 ---------------


Please share the info found in these issues of AWAKEN with other
members of the faith to which you belong. Consider using this
info within publications issued to members of your faith. One
example is to use this info within Church bulletins. People need
to become informed about the Watch Tower and it's teachings. Why ?
Jehovah's Witnesses go door to door preaching whatever the
Watch Tower has told them to preach. They are trained weekly to
respond to any and all objections to their preaching. They are
told by the Watch Tower that the Watch Tower is the only TRUTH
and that the Watch Tower is the only TRUE religion. They are 
told by the Watch Tower that all other faiths, teach
false teachings because all other faiths are agents of SATAN.
They have no qualms attacking any and all aspects your belief
system, when they come on their un-asked for visits. They are
trained to SELL you on the Watch Tower's teachings, just as they
themselves had been SOLD. 

By becoming informed about the Watch Tower, one will be better 
prepared to decide whether one should get invloved with this group.
 
 
Copyright (c) 1991 by Vince Banial, Toronto Ontario Canada.
This material cannot be incorporated into any book without the
empress and written permission of Vince Banial. This file may be 
freely uploaded to any BBS, as long as it remains unchanged.  
