AWAKEN                                           ISSUE #5
 
This issue of AWAKEN consists of two very related articles.
The first is called :

GROWING UP WITHIN THE WATCHTOWER -
HOW PARENTS ARE TAUGHT TO INFLUENCE THEIR CHILDREN.
 
This article was written by : David T. Brown and
                              Randall Watters
 
The second article is called :
 
THE INTRODUCTION OF PHOBIAS (DEEP ROOTED FEARS) AND OTHER
DEVELOPMENT TRAITS IN THE JEHOVAH WITNESS CHILD.
 
This article was written by : Randall Watters
                              Mr. Watters is a former Watch Tower
                              Headquarters Staff Member and as such knows
                              what he is talking about regarding the
                              Watch Tower Bible And Tract Society Of
                              Pennsylvania.
        ---------------------------------------
 
We start now with our first article, called:

GROWING UP WITHIN THE WATCHTOWER -
HOW PARENTS ARE TAUGHT TO INFLUENCE THEIR CHILDREN.
 
One of the key roles of parents in any society is to shape the
thinking and aspirations of their children for the future. Parents
who are Jehovah's Witnesses are admonished to be especially keen on
guiding their children away from any unnecessary involvment in the
"world" in order to devote more time to the work of speading
Watch Tower doctrines. Ever since the beginning of the Watch Tower
in 1879, its readers have been told that the "end of the world" is
right around the corner, and this event was specifically predicted
for the years 1914, 1915, 1918, 1925 and strongly suggested for
1941 and 1975. In 1941 the Watch Tower published the book CHILDREN
in which the ficticious characters John and Eunice give up having
children to go door-to-door in the short time remaining before
the End.

Decades have passed, John and Eunice are still childless and in thier
seventies, and the world has not yet ended. Yet even today, the
Watch Tower is still encouraging young ones to sacrifice careers
and even to forego marriage if it will make them more successful in
the "short time remaining before the End." 

What future is held out for youths today in the Witness subculture ?
 
Publicly, the Watch Tower Society likes to put forth an image of
happy, normal youths among their organization. Though many
Witness youth seem to be well adjusted and have normal aspirations,
the ones held up as models in the congregations are often
disfunctional in their personal lives, some even leading a double
life, morally speaking. 

What is the future held out for Witness youth by their leaders ?
 
The public image is well demonstrated in the Watch Tower Society's
booklet, "PREPARING FOR CHILD CUSTODY CASES" (distributed by the
Society's legal department as an aid in child custody battles).
It encourages the selection of "spiritually minded" young Witnesses 
by the presiding overseer of the local congregation to testify "to 
show that they are normal." The booklet cautions about the rehearsal:
"Be careful that they don't get the impression that they are in a
demonstration at the circuit assembly, when they would show that
the first things in life are service [door-to-door preaching] and
going to the Kingdom Hall. Show hobbies, crafts, social activity,
sports, and especially plans for the future. Be careful they don't
all say that they are going to be pioneers [full-time door-to-door
evangelists]. Plans can be trade, getting married and having children,
journalism, and all kinds of other things. Maybe you can show an 
interest in art and the theater." (from page 43).

At a Witness circuit assembly (large religious gathering), a Witness
youth would truthfully point out their primary interests are
religious. In court, however, Witness youths are counseled to 
emphasize "normal" activities and a "normal" future career. Instead
of pioneering, they should indicate regular interests that other
children would have - such as journalism, art and the theater, etc.
The Watch Tower is thereby promoting one image to the public (one
of being just like other children) and another in the Kingdom Hall
(of sacrificing careers and personal desires for the sake of
warning others of the imminency of the Watch Tower message).
 
The following are quotations from Witness literature showing what 
is actually taught to young Witnesses, both by example and direct
statement. Material in brackets is added to clarify meaning or 
explain significance. Emphasis is added to some quotations to
draw attention to key points.
 
ONE THE NEARNESS OF THE NEW WORLD:

"Most importnatly, this magazine builds confidence in the Creator's
promise of a peaceful and secure new world before the generation
that saw the events of 1914 passes away." [This statement appears
on the contents page of every AWAKE! magazine which is a Watch Tower
publication.]
  
"...today, most of the generation of 1914 has passed away... Jesus'
words will come true, 'this generation will certainly not pass away
until all these things have happened.' This is yet another reason
for believing that Jehovah's thieflike day is imminent." AWAKE!,
April 08, 1988, page 14. [ In Witness belief, both Armageddon and
the New World are due before the generation of 1914 passes away.
This present world must be destroyed before this New World can
become a reality. Only those associated with the Witness organization
can have any hope to survive Armageddon into the New World.]

[ A Witness youth in France named Samuel is quoted with apparent
approval: ] "For the year 2000, I visualize a world tranformed
into a beautiful paradise! But I don't think that either the present
world or its rulers will live to see that day.... We are living in the
last days of the system of things." AWAKE! magazine [ a Watch Tower
publication ], November 08, 1986, page 7 to 8.
 
HIGHER EDUCATION IS DISCOURAGED

"If you are a young person, you also need to face the fact that you
will never grow old in this present system of things. Why not ?
Because all the evidence is fulfillment of Bible prophecy indicates
that this corrupt system is due to end in a few years. Of the
generation that observed the beginning of the 'last days' in 1914,
Jesus foretold: 'This generation will by no means pass away until 
these things occur.'
 
"Therefore, as a young person, you will never fulfill any career
that this system offers. If you are in high school and thinking
about a college education, it means at least four, perhaps even 
six or eight more years to graduate into a specialized career.
But where will this system of things be by that time ? It will
be well on the way towards its finish, if not actually gone!
 
"This is why parents who base their lives on God's prophetic Word
find it much more practical to direct their young ones into trades
that do not require such long periods of additional schooling....
 
"True, those who do not understand where we are in the stream of time
from God's viewpoint will call this impractical. But which is really
practical: preparing yourself for a position in this world that soon
will pass away ? or working towards surviving this systems end and
enjoying eternal life in God's righteous new order ?" from AWAKE!
magazine, May 22, 1969, page 15. [ Even though this was written in
1969, this policy is still endorsed - as can be seen in the following
references. ]
 
Under the subheading "ALTERNATIVES TO UNIVERSITY" in the article
entitled "YOUNG PEOPLE ASK ... HOW DO I CHOOSE A CAREER?" (from
AWAKE! magazine, March 22, 1985, page 17 to 18) they say:

"After consulting their parents, many young people have decided
against long-term education because of the uncertainty of the
future. 'The time left is reduced,' say the Bible.... [Vocational
training in High School is then recommended.]
 
"A Christian's view of the future should also affect his choice of
career. With 'the world passing away,' a career based upon worldly
ambitions is most unrealistic. Bible prophecy indicates how short-
lived such a career would be.
 
"For this reason, many young people among Jehovah's Witnesses are
choosing a career in full time Bible education - a volunteer work
of helping people to understand the Bible. 'But,' you may ask, 
'how can somebody make a living that way?' In order to support
themselves financially, many have first received practical training
in a trade."
 
The  Witness youth handbook, 'QUESTIONS YOUNG PEOPLE ASK - ANSWERS
THAT WORK' spends four pages discouraging a university education.
(pages 175 to 179) It concludes:
 
"In view of these facts, many Christian youths have decided against
a university education. many have found that the training offered in
congregations of Jehovah's Witnesses - the weekly Thoecratic Ministry
School in particular - has given them a real edge in finding
employment." 

At the end of this chapter are five questions that reveal the tone
of the argumentation found in this book: "Why do secular careers
often fail to bring personal happiness? Why should all God-fearing
youths consider a career in full-time ministry ? What are the
claimed benefits of high education, and do such claims always hold
true ? What dangers might univeristy education pose ? What alternatives
to university education can a youth consider?" (page 179)
 
The WATCHTOWER magazine of April 15, 1986, (pages 28 to 30) spoke
to young Witnesses:
 
"As you think about your future, no doubt questions run through your 
mind. Should I go to university and seek a career as a doctor, a
lawyer, or a scientist? Does the dream of climbing the corporate
ladder to financial success and recognition intrigue me? Would I
become a famous name in the arts through acting or painting? Or,
as a youth devoted to Jehovah God, should I choose the full-time
ministry as my career...?"
 
After giving two testimonies - one a young man who quit his university
studies after joining the Witnesses so that he could pioneer (full-time
mission work), and the other of a young man who began pioneering in
his last year of high school - the article concludes:
 
"Youths, how will you use your future? For yourself of fully for
Jehovah? Prayerfully consider the goal of full-time sevice now in
your youth. Imitate Jesus by living the rest of your life 'for God's
will.' It will prove to be a protection from harmful worldly ambitions,
careers, and associations. Analyze your circumstances and set a 
specific date as your goal for entering full-time service. Work toward
it. Pray for Jehovah's help to attain it." [ Pursuing a "worldly
career" is viewed as selfish, as opposed to the goal of full-time
service now "for Jehovah." The idea that God might call one to a
secular career that can be dedicated to His glory is foreign to the
Watch Tower Society.]
 
START PREPARING FOR A MINISTRY CAREER BEFORE GRADUATING FROM SCHOOL:
 
"Keeping in mind the limited value of physical exercise and the
superlative benefits of godly devotion will help you to make 
balanced decisions when it comes to after-school activities....
 
"How about using your time to help others spiritually? Interestingly,
some young ones among Jehovah's Witnesses in Japan start to make the
ministry their career while they are still in school. They buy out
their time before and after school to help others to know the
Creator." [ From the article "Young People Ask...What About After-
School Activities?" AWAKE!, December 08, 1986, page 18. 
Extracurricular activities are discouraged. Door-to-door "service"
is recommended in it's place "before and after school."]
 
SINGLENESS IS COMMENDED:
 
"Putting your years as an unmarried Christian to the best possible
use in Jehovah's service will bring present satisfaction and peace 
of mind. Doing so will also contribute to your spiritual maturity
and stability. If you remain single for the Kingdom's sake until
the end of this wicked system of things, Jehovah will not forget 
your self-sacrificing efforts in his sacred service .
 
"If you diligently pursue Kingdom interests [religious activities
like door-to-door work and attending congregational meetingings]
as an unmarried man or woman, you will enjoy many blessings. Then
if you should get married later in life, you will enter wedlock
with greater experienceand a rich spiritual background." [ From
the article "SINGLENESS - A REWARDING WAY OF LIFE." the WATCHTOWER
magazine, Novenmber 15, 1987, page 20.]
 
CHILDLESSNESS IS COMMENDED:
 
The Watch Tower Society has no stated policy regarding childbearing. 
They state the decision to have children is a personal matter.But, 
they do remind couples of the nearness of the End and commend those 
who have decided to remain childless 'in order to have a fuller 
share in the Witnesses' religious activities:
 
"Some young couples have decided to remain childless. Although the
wives had maternal instincts just as strong as those in other women,
they decided, in agreement with their husbands, to refrain from having
children in ordr to devote themselves to serving Jehovah full-time.
Many of them have served as pioneers or missionaries...
 
"Many married couples throughout the world who have relinquished
the joys of parenthood have been able to serve Jehovah in the circuit
work, the district work, or at Bethel. [ Remaining childless is a
condition  in these responsible positions. ] These likewise look back
with satisfaction over their lives spent in serving Jehovah and their
brothers in these special privileges. They have no regrets. While they
have not had the joy of bringing children into the world, they have
played a vital part in furthering Kingdom interests in their various
fields of activity.
 
"So the matter of childbearing in this time of the end is a personal
one that each couple must decide for itself. However, since 'the time
left is reduced,' married  couples would do well to weigh carefully 
and prayerfully the pros and cons of child bearing in these times."
The WATCHTOWER magazine, March 01, 1988, pages 25 & 26.
 
PARENTS ARE ENCOURAGED TO SET PIONEERING AS A GOAL FOR
CHILDREN INSTEAD OF COLLEGE :

THE KINGDOM MINISTRY (a Watch Tower magazine) of May 1973, page 6,
(under the subheading "THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF PARENTS HELPS") says:
 
"At times the heart's desire for what is good needs to be strengthened.
Parents can do much to aid their children in this regard...
 
"An elder in Korea encouraged his four children to pioneer. At a
circuit assembly [ large Witness religious gathering ] he and the
children were interviewed. The oldest daughter related how she had 
been the high scholastically in her high school. She herself wanted
to go to college at one point. However, her father informed her that,
while she was free to choose such a course, she could not expect
financial support from him. She changed her mind about college, and
now she is enjoying many blessings as a pioneer. The next oldest, a
son, told how he also at one time wanted to go to college and follow
a worldly course. But his father sat down and reviewed the Scriptures
with him. His father also told him that, if he insisted on following
a worldly course, he would also have to find another place to live.
He heeded his father's counsel and is very grateful that his father
was kind kind but firm in his stand. The two younger explained that 
they were impressed by what happened to the two older ones. From the
beginning they planned to become pioneers. The youngest son gave up 
his high school education to pioneer."
 
In the WATCHTOWER magazine of January 15, 1952, [pg 47], parents
were counseled to:
 
"Suggest that they become vacation pioneers [ a one momth commitment
for 75 hours of door-to-door proselytizing ] during their summer
holidays... The highest career you can plan for your children is that
of full-time service as a minister. ["MINISTER" here refers to their
door-to-door preaching work.] Work and plan to help them toward that
most joyful and successful careers." [ Even though this article is
nearly 40 years old, Jehovah's Witnesses today still follow this 
practice. many Witnesses who were raised in the 1950's and 1960's
by this advice postponed marriage and then also postponed having
children after marriage, so that they could devote more time to
their proselytizing work. Some are still single or childless. Most
who did eventually marry and have children found that it was too
late to start a professional career, taking employment in the blue
collar field instead. Still, these are raising their children with
full-time ministry as their goal in life. ]
 
THEATRICAL CAREER DISCOURAGED FOR WITNESSES :

In the AWAKE! of August 08, 1983, pages 23 & 24, the Watch Tower
published this testimony of actor who quit the theater after
converting to the Witnesses:
 
"Now, more than a decade later, I can honestly say that I do not 
yearn for the stage. I am still able to practice my art each year,
as a director and an actor, in the Bible dramas that Jehovah's
Witnesses present in their district conventions... The difference
is that we have performed with a better motive. In the theater
I wanted to be a star, to receive adulation. In these Bible dramas
it is the story that matters, not the actors. Thus there is no
competition, no upstaging of fellow actors."
 
ART CAREER DISCOURAGED:
 
In the WACTHTOWER magazine, march 15, 1981 (page 10) the Society
published this testimony of a art student who decided not to pursue
an art career after joining the Witnesses:
 
"By 1952 I had been studying to be an artist for nearly four years. 
What would I do ? Returning to Puerto Rico, my desire to share what
I had learned from the Bible was even stronger than my desire to be
an artist. Thus, in August 1952, I began serving in the full-time
preaching activity as a pioneer."
 
MUSICAL CAREER DISCOURAGED :

The AWAKE! of August 08, 1985 (pages 16 & 17) published the
testimony of William Mullane, who left the prestigious Julliard
School in New York City after he started studying with the 
Witnesses. He eventually entered "Bethel service." working
full-time at Watch Tower headquarters in Brooklyn, New York.
Bethel workers receive room and board and a nominal monthly
"allownance" to buy necessities. Mullane explains:
 
"After the summer-vacation period, I returned to school for another
semester. But I felt very differently about things then. The desire 
to develop as a musician was not as strong as it had once been. I 
now knew that there was much more to life and that music could no 
longer be 'number one'...
 
"I also remember clearly my father's reaction to my decision. He 
pounded on the table and sternly told me that I would be out of the
house if I left school. But leave I did. Two months later I was 
baptized to symbolize my dedication to God, and soon thereafter
I entered the full-time ministry...
 
"I still practice my music but only for a small fraction of the time
I previously devoted to it...
 
"A career in [music] demands exclusive devotion. In this it competes
with our Creator and the doing of his will. Music can be almost like
a disease...
 
"Frankly, I've come to look upon musical instituations as modern-day 
temples of worship that require people to devote their entire lives to
music. But that is making a god out of it, and surely this does not 
have the Creator's approval. True, music is a gift from Jehovah, but
it must be kept in its place."

The February 22, 1984 AWAKE! (pages 12 to 16) published the testimony
of a former Lebanese basketball star who forsook both that and his
university studies to become a full-time pioneer.
 
The December 08, 1984 AWAKE! (pages 16 to 20) published Herman
Pizzanelli's Uruguayan concert guitarist in the 1960's. After
joining the Witnesses he canceled his contracts including "a
theatrical tour of Europe," because "my conscience moved more 
urgent work of preaching and other Christian activities."
 
============= THE END OF OUR FIRST ARTICLE ====================
 
Now for our second (related) article :
 
THE INTRODUCTION OF PHOBIAS (DEEP ROOTED FEARS) AND OTHER
DEVELOPMENT TRAITS IN THE JEHOVAH WITNESS CHILD.
 
Parents obviously have a very powerful influence on their
children. Even when they are abusive and insensitive towards
their offspring, children still desire whatever vestige of love
and approval they can get from their parents, and will often be 
obedient just to receive attention and care. Understanding this
dynamic helps to explain how children growing up in the Watch
Tower may be so heavily influenced by the need for approval that
they are willing togive up whatever goals or aspirations they
may have in order to please their parents, even long after they
leave home and/or get married.
 
In order for the indoctrination to be lasting and effective, 
PHOBIAS (deep-rooted fears) must be introduced to the child 
in order to "scare" them away from a course contrary to Watch
Tower idealology, and the organization is very adept at planting
and nuturing these phobias. As in the case of the elder in Korea
with the four children (mentioned previously in our first article),
the fear may be the threat of being cut off financially as well as
losing dad's approval, but it also comes directly from the pages
of THE WATCHTOWER in the form of warnings about being in the very
last days, and how Jehovah will not look with approval upon those
who "squander their time and energies" in non-Kingdom interests.
Jehovah thus becomes the all powerful parent who, even if the 
child's real parents may not be too concerned, will himself cut
the child off from his favour and possibility even eternal life.
A powerful motovation indeed!
 
A PHOBIC WORLD VIEW
 
The first step that the Watch Tower takes in their indoctrination
of their followers is to develop the concept of the "universal war"
that all people are inevitably caught up in, namely, that Satan
has declared war on Jehovah, and we are automatically on one side
or the other; there are no fence-sitters. If you are not doing
all that the organization asks, you are on the side of the devil.
Everything outside of the Watch Tower is controlled by the devil,
and all persons who are not Witnesses are misled by the devil and
are bad or dangerous to associate with. An unbalanced fear of the
supernatural is encouraged. Witness children are told to avoid
"worldly" magazines, movies, TV shows, music, etc. Any information
critical of the Watch Tower is automatically evil and dangerous.
Most doctors are evil for wanting to administer blood transfusions.
Children have nightmares about mom or dad having to refuse a blood
transfusion. Everything is made to appear as part of a large
conspiracy to destroy Jehovah's Witnesses. Satan is feared totally
out of proportion to the role as represented in the Bible.
 
What is the end result? The child learns to fear life itself, at
least outside of the Watch Tower, so that if he/she were to ever
leave the organization, the devil would destroy him/her and he/she
would become miserable and suicidal. I personally knew several
members of the Watch Tower's Bethel family at their headquarters
in New York who knew the organization was wrong, but could not
leave due to fear that they were incapable of getting a job, or
that their lives would disintegrate. They were the victims of
carefully planted PHOBIAS.
 
Many of these phobias are rather obvious to outsiders. Simple,
harmless things are blown out of proportion in order to keep
Witnesses secluded from the real world. For instance: Birthdays
are evil because someone is being worshipped. Christmas is evil
because thousands of years ago someone worshipped the sun on
December 25th. Saluting the flag is worshipping your country and
a sign that you belong to Satan's kingdom rather than God's
Kingdom. Saying "darn" or "geez" is the same as cursing. Smoking
cigarettes is a form of drug abuse that can lead to demonic
control. Little wonder that Witness youths are so paranoid and 
shy of the world! Even when they leave the organization, the
phobias are still there, controlling their lives until they are
recognized and eliminated through counseling and/or self-awareness.

 
Many of our readers were raised Jehovah's Witnesses and still
remain VICTIMS of multiple phobia implantations. Many struggle
with low self-esteem and self-worth, since the Watch Tower
impants and perpetuates such problems.
 
============== END OF OUR SECOND ARTICLE ==================
 
What follows is additional material prepared by : Vince Banial


The following is a list of books which could be of help when
dealing with individuals who suffer from PHOBIAS and from
phobia induced ANXIETY :
 
TOXIC FAITH by : Stephen Arterburn and Jack Felton
 
COMBATTING CULT MIND CONTROL by : Steven Hassan
 
DON'T PANIC - Taking Control Of Anxiety Attacks 
                             by : R. Reid Wilson, Ph.D. 
 
FEEL THE FEAR AND DO IT ANYWAY by Susan Jeffers, Ph.D.
 
NEGAHOLICS - Recover From Your Addiction To Negativity
             And Turn Your Life Around
                             by : Cherie Carter-Scott
 
BANISHED KNOWLEDGE - Facing Childhood Injuries
                             by : Alice Miller
 
ADULT CHILDREN OF ABUSIVE PARENTS - A Healing Program For Those
                                    Who Have Been Physically,
                                    Sexually or Emotionally
                                    Abused
                             by : Steven Farmer - 
                                  Director of the Center for Adult
                                  Children of Abusive Parents     

TOXIC PARENTS - Overcoming Their Hurtful Legacy
                And Reclaiming Your Life
                             by : Dr. Susan Forward

HEALING THE SHAME THAT BINDS YOU  by : John Bradshaw
 
TAKE CHARGE OF YOUR LIFE - How Not To Be A Victim  by : Louis Proto

Those who feel that they suffer from PHOBIAS,I state that they
should seek out professional help. Look for individuals and or 
groups who have experience in dealing with phobias and related
anxiety disorder problems. The above list of books is by no means 
exhaustive. Please visit your local bookstore and ask for  books 
about phobias. The above books can be of help, as I'm sure that
there are other books which too would be helpful.  

There is also a wonderful book written by a former Jehovah's Witness.
Not just any JW, this fellow was a member of their ruling body called
the GOVERNING BODY. I am speaking of Mr. Raymond Franz, nephew to the
present Watch Tower President Mr.Fred Franz. If Mr Raymond Franz had
NOT had his crisis of conscience (which by the way is also the title
of his book : CRISIS OF CONSCIENCE) he would likely have become the
NEXT WATCH TOWER PRESIDENT, after the present President Mr. Fred Franz 
passed away. The book is well worth reading :
 
CRISIS OF CONSCIENCE - The Struggle Between Loyalty To God
                       And Loyalty To One's Religion
                       by : Raymond Franz, former member of the
                            GOVERNING BODY of Jehovah's Witnesses.


Mr. Randall Watters runs an out-reach  where he provides factual
material about the Watch Tower. He also publishes a wonderful
newsletter. You can write to him at:

P.O. Box 3818
Manhattan Beach, CA 90266
 
Ask him to send you samples of their newletter. When you call
or write, could I ask that you mention that you were referred by
Vince Banial. I get nothing out of it. I just want to let Randall
know that Vince in Toronto continues with support of Randall's
efforts. Randall also carries books about the many
facets of the Watch Tower. Most of the material contains
photo-reproductions of actual Watch Tower publication pages. With
such proof you can show a visiting Jehovah's Witness actual Watch
Tower statements.

================ end of issue #5 =======================

Please share the info found in these issues of AWAKEN with other
members of the faith to which you belong. Consider using this
info within publications issued to members of your faith. One
example is to use this info within Church bulletins. People need
to become informed about the Watchtower and it's teachings. Why ?
Jehovah's Witnesses go door to door preaching whatever the
Watchtower has told them to preach. They are trained weekly to
respond to any and all objections to their preaching. They are
told by the Watchtower that the Watchtower is the only TRUTH
and that the Watchtower is the only TRUE religion. They are 
told by the Watchtower that all other faiths, teach
false teachings because all other faiths are agents of SATAN.
They have no qualms attacking any and all aspects your belief
system, when they come on their un-asked for visits. They are
trained to SELL you on the Watchtower's teachings, just as they
themselves had been SOLD. 

By becoming informed about the Jehovah's Witnesses, one will be 
better prepared to decide whether one should get invloved with 
this group.
 
 
Copyright (c) 1991 by Vince Banial, Toronto Ontario Canada.
This material cannot be incorporated into any book without the
empress and written permission of Vince Banial. This file may be 
freely uploaded to any BBS, as long as it remains unchanged.  
