AWAKEN                                           ISSUE #3
 
   THE WATCHTOWER STRETCHES THE GREAT PYRAMID OF GIZEH
   AND OTHER WATCHTOWER TEACHING ABOUT PYRAMIDS


The following section has been written by Mr. Rich Griese:

How knowledgeable are you about the Watchtower Bible & Tract Society?
I have done some research, have talked to a few JWs and come away more
confussed about the Watchtower Bible & Tract Society that when I
started.  I would be interested in talking to you about both
Watchtower theology and its evolution over the years, as well as the
growth of the Watchtower Bible & Tract Society corporation polocies
and procedures.  Maybe we could initially begin with a quick readers
digest version of original theology, and see where we go from their.

My understanding of the original theology from reading Studies in
the Scriptues, by Charles Russell the founder of the Watchtower Bible
& Tract Society, was that God offeres a eternal reward to all men.
Man, being imperfect, finds it impossible to attain this eternal
reward (Due to Adamic sin which we can deal with in more detail at a
latter date).  Christ, as a ransom sacrafice, repaid the Adamic debt.
And since that debt has been paid all can once again attain this
eternal reward.

As to how the eternal reward are collected my understanding of Studies
in the Scriptures was as follows. The decision to Join God or not would
be made by all men during the 1000 Millenial reign of Christ.
Upon Christ's return the world as we know it would be destroyed, and
all men (with the exception of a select few that will live through
the end to act as verifiers of the facts) would be killed.  Then a new
process would take place.  All humanity would begin to be ressurected
from the dead, be made "perfect", and be educated in the Ways of God.
Once made "perfect", and educated the would live for at least 1000
years in their new form, and at the end of that time would be put to a
test (similar to the test that brought on Adamic sin).  If the test
is past, that individual would be granted eternal life and would live
in communion with God forever.

The purpose of our present life to to accumulte knowledge and
experience of good and evil, so that we can come to understand that
without the help of God, human could never achieve a satisfactory
existence.  It is almost like an object lesson in the value in listen
to God.  Except for a few select individuals (which we can discuss
later) none of us can do anything in this life that will either
exclude or garantee our eternal reward.  All the tests will be
faced in our ressurrected life, after we have been made "perfect" and
have come to a full knowledge of God.

This original theology is quite different than current dogma.

Early Watchtower theology included looking for clues for the end of
time in the "Great Pyrimid".  The Watchtower has been able to do
amazing things in their history, including streching the size of the
structure 41 inches in one direction from 3416 to 3457 inches.  Of
course the changes in dates "just happened" to re-enforce the time
that the world was supposed to end.  In fact both of these figures are
wrong, the length of this particular measure is 3384.904 inches.  Yet
it is interesting that different editions can use the exact same words
except different numbers for the measure of the pyrimid.

From the Watchtower published book called Studies in the Scriptures,
Vol 3 (early edition) Russell :
  "... This measure is 1542 inches, and indicates the year B.C. 1542,
  as the date at that point.  Then measuring down the "Entrance Passage"
  from that point, to find the distance to the entrance of the "Pit",
  representing the great trouble and destruction with which this age is
  to close, when evil will be overthrown from power, we find it to be
  3416 inches, symbolizing 3416 years from the above date, B.C. 1542.
  This calculation shows A.D. 1874 as marking the beginning of the
  period of trouble; for 1542 years B.C. plus 1874 years equals 3416
  years.  Thus the Pyramid witnesses that the close of 1874 was the
  chronological beginning of the time of trouble such as was not since
  there was a nation-..."

Studies in The Scriptures, Vol 3 (1923 edition) Russell :
  "... This measure is 1542 inches, and indicates the year B.C. 1542,
  as the date at that point.  Then measuring down the "Entrance Passage"
  from that point, to find the distance to the entrance of the "Pit",
  representing the great trouble and destruction with which this age is
  to close, when evil will be overthrown from power, we find it to be
  3457 inches, symbolizing 3457 years from the above date, B.C. 1542.
  This calculation shows A.D. 1915 as marking the beginning of the
  period of trouble; for 1542 years B.C. plus 1915 years equals 3457
  years.  Thus the Pyramid witnesses that the close of 1914 was the
  chronological beginning of the time of trouble such as was not since
  there was a nation-..."

Of course all JWs know the date 1914 as the date who's "Generation"
will by no means pass away before the "New System" comes.  Of course
that makes this "Generation" 77 years old.  Is the Watchtower running
out of time?  What will they come up with next?

Most JW do not even know about this information, the only date that is
important to a JW is the date the Watchtower Bible & Tract Society is
currently pushing.  The Watchtower Bible & Tract Society has had lots
of experience setting and changing date, and are much harder to catch
these days.  They have become much more nebulas about their dates.
These days they are simply saying that Armegedon is very, very close.

Rich Griese

               ---------------------------------------

Mr. Griese has researched the Watchtower's teachings. In future
issues of AWAKEN, we will bring you more results from his findings.
Right now I would like to add to Mr. Griese's finding with the
following quotes from other Watchtower publications. Please note
that Jehovah's Witnesses get all their doctrine from the Watchtower
Bible and Tract Society via their publications.
 

THE WATCH TOWER magazine, 06/05/1922, page 187 :
"The chronology of present truth might be a mere happening if it were
not for the repitions on the two great cycles of 1845 and 2520 years,
which takes it out of the realm of chance and into that of certainty.
If there were only one or two corresponding dates in these cycles,
they might possibly be mere coincidences, but where the agreements
of dates and events come by the dozens, they cannot possibly be by
chance, but must be by the design or plan of the only personal Being
capable of such a plan - Jehovah himself; and the chronology itself
must be right.
 
In the passages of the Great Pyramid of Gizeh the agreement of one 
or two  measurements proves that the same God designed both pyramid
and plan - and at the same time proves the correctness of the
chronology.
 
The agreement of the chronology with certain measurements of the
Tabernacle and the Temple of Ezekiel further stamps the chronology
as true.
 
It is on the basis of such and so many correspondencies - in 
accordance with the soundest laws know to science - that we affirm
that, Scripturally, scientifically and historically, present-truth
chronology is correct beyond a doubt. Its reliability has been
abundantly confirmed by the dates and events of 1874, 1914, and
1918. Present-truth chronology is a secure basis on which the
consecrated child of God may endeavor to search things to come"
 

THE WATCH TOWER magazine, 05/15/1925, page 148:
"The great Pyramid of Egypt, standing as a silent and manimate
witness of the Lord, is a messenger; and its testimony speaks
with great eloquence concerning the devine plan (Isaiah 19:19)"
 

So we  see that the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of
Pennsylvania was preaching about Pyramids up to 1925. You should
also note that the Watchtower "stated" in no uncertain terms that
GOD desiged the Great Pyramid of Gizeh. I bet you that no Jehovah's
Witness has ever called on you to tell that they once preached such things.
Most if not all Jehovah's Witnesses do not know this. Most don't even
know that the founder of the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of
Pennsylvania asked to be and was buried under a huge pyramid shaped
tombstone. 

Please share the info found in these issues of AWAKEN with other
members of the faith to which you belong. Consider using this
info within publications issued to members of your faith. One
example is to use this info within Church bulletins. People need
to become informed about the Watchtower and it's teachings. Why ?
Jehovah's Witnesses go door to door preaching whatever the
Watchtower has told them to preach. They are trained weekly to
respond to any and all objections to their preaching. They are
told by the Watchtower that the Watchtower is the only TRUTH
and that the Watchtower is the only TRUE religion. They are 
told by the Watchtower that all other faiths, teach
false teachings because all other faiths are agents of SATAN.
They have no qualms attacking any and all aspects your belief
system, when they come on their un-asked for visits. They are
trained to SELL you on the Watchtower's teachings, just as they
themselves had been SOLD. 

By becoming informed about the Jehovah's Witnesses, one will be 
better prepared to decide whether one should get invloved with 
this group.
 
 
Copyright (c) 1991 by Vince Banial, Toronto Ontario Canada.
This material cannot be incorporated into any book without the
empress and written permission of Vince Banial. This file may be 
freely uploaded to any BBS, as long as it remains unchanged.  
