AWAKEN                                           ISSUE #7
 
FACTS YOU WON'T BE TOLD WHEN JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES CALL AT YOUR DOOR
 

They believe & teach
 
THAT all religions except theirs are of Satan, and your Pastor or
Priest is under the Devil's control.
 
THAT the Watch Tower Society is the only source of truth on earth
today, and all churches teach error and will be destroyed at
Armageddon.
 
THAT the cross is a pagan symbol of sex worship, and that all 
buildings or persons displaying the cross are likewise pagan.
Jehovah's Witnesses deny that Jesus died on the cross. However,
recent "new light" in the WatchTower Magazine now admits they
are not certain about the cross, but will continue to deny it
anyway.
 
THAT no one goes to heaven but 144,000 Jehovah's Witnesses, and
your soul will be destroyed if you refuse their organization.
 
THAT the Christ child was only an "IT", not a "HE". See the New
World Translation, Luke 2:16,17.
 
THAT Jesus was not the Christ (or Messiah) until age 30, even
though their own bible says in Luke 2:11, "because there was born
to you today a savior, who is Christ the Lord."
 
THAT after Jesus was buried in the tomb, Jerhovah dissolved his body
into gases and it disappeared forever.
 
THAT Jesus rose invisibly in three days, so Jehovah had to 
"materialize" a fake body for him complete with fake nailprints
so His disciples would believe it was really Jesus risen.
 
THAT Armageddon and Christ's second coming were foretold to happen
in 1874, 1914, 1925 and 1975 by this "non-prophet" organization.
 
THAT when Christ failed to show up in 1914 The Society claimed in 
later years that He had come invisibly--of course, and all
Jehovah's Witnesses believe this today.
 
THAT Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob etc. were to be back on earth 
as perfect humans in 1925. The Society built a palacial home for
them BUT when the patriarchs failed to show up, the President
of the Society moved in.
 
THAT their light gets "brighter and brighter", allowing for many
changes and "about faces" on their doctrines. Yesterday's error is
today's "truth". Often the "light" bounces back and forth from
old to new views and back again! Does real light return to darkness?
 
THAT the Watch Tower Society and its followers are all prophets of 
God today and the Governing Body is directed by angels from God.
 
THAT salvation for Society members consists of doing good works of
selling Watch Tower books and magazines and winning converts.
 
THAT soon Jehovah God will become a GRANDFATHER and Jesus will be
promoted to "EVERLASTING FATHER"!
 
THAT Jehovah God is not omnipresent, but still Almighty. Think!
How can this be?


They have NOT been told --
By the leadership of the Society ....
 
THAT when they translated their New World Translation of the Bible
they deliberately altered almost every scripture on the deity of 
Christ, to make him only a creature.
 
THAT the Society used a translation by a SPIRIT MEDIUM, Johannes
Greber, to support their rendering of John 1:1 with full knowledge
that his sources were DEMONIC.
 
Greber was exposed in the Feb. 15/56 Watch Tower. However in 1961
they released a translation based on his occult one, then denied
they knew what they were doing on page 31 of the Apr. 1, 1983
Watchtower!
 
THAT none of their "translating committee" knew Biblical Greek
or Hebrew. No scholars at all.
 
That Fred Franz, who for many years headed the Society, perjured
himself under oath in Scotland in a court trial, by saying he
could read Hebrew, and then failing a simple Hebrew test.
 
THAT the following encyclopedias consider the name "JEHOVAH"
to be FALSE: Merits Student Enc.; Encyclopedia Americana; 
The Jewish Enc.; Encyclopedia International, The Interpreters
Dictionary of the Bible; The New Catholic Enc.; The Universal
Jewish enc., [Encyclopaedia Britannica] etc.
 
J.W.'s own "Aid" book admits on pages 884 & 885 that "Jehovah"
originated with a Catholic monk about 700 years ago!
 
THAT the date 1874 was taught for Christ's invisible presence 
by the Society right up till 1929. (See their book, "Prophecy",
page 65).
 
THAT top executives of the Society have admitted under oath that
they forced their members to accept false prophecies or face
disfellowshipping and be found worthy of death.
 

In Summary
 
We find the Watch Tower Society practising their belief that it is
proper to deceive people. But they say this really isn't lying.
Why? Because the Society has a different Definition of lying than
most of us. In their book "AID TO BIBLE UNDERSTANDING" under the
word "LIE" we read:
 
"Lying generally involves saying something false to a person who
is ENTITLED to know the truth....". "While malicious lying is 
definitely condemned in the Bible, this does not mean that a
person is under obligation to divulge truthful information
to people who are not entitled to it".
 
OF course it is the Watch Tower leaders who decide WHO deserves
to know the truth.
   
            DO YOU DESERVE TO KNOW THE TRUTH ?


--------------------- end of feature article -----------------------------
 

                  
                       SOME J.W.'S TROUBLED
                    BY NEW 'CONTRIBUTION' RULES

How well I remember from my years as a Jehovah's Witness how we
were taught to shake our heads in disbelief at the churches always
asking for money. We were so proud that we distributed our magazines
as such a low price, only asking for a "contribution to cover the
cost of printing". Little did we know that this "cost of printing"
was making a fortune for the Watch Tower Society!
 
Now the Jehovah's Witnesses are asked to do what they critized the
churches for doing! They are asking for money at every door. The
greedy Watch Tower Society not only expects the publisher [name for
regular J.W.] to give a "contribution" to cover the costs of the
literature "up front" before removing the magazines from the Kingdom
Hall, but now they are expected to beg for money from the householders
and turn that into the Society as well!
 
This is troubling some Jehovah's Witnesses. We have had reports of some
never asking for money at the doors at all, just handing over the 
magazines. They cannot bring themselves to solicit funds for the
Society when they have already paid themselves for the magazines.
They feel cheapened doing so. It is against everything they have 
been taught.
 
In the "Our Kingdom Ministry" Vol. 34, no.9 (a J.W. publication)
under date of September 1991, this question appears in the
"Question Box" section:
 
"If a householder gives a comparatively generous donation, should 
we be moved to him additional literature?"
 
Note this reply from the Watch Tower Society.
 
"Not necessarily. You can use your judgment in this regard, taking
into consideration the interest manifested in reading the literature.
On subsequent visits, literature that meets a particular need of the
householder might be left. If the householder takes the initiative
to offer a further donation, such can be graciously accepted. Keep
in mind that donations support various facets of our worldwide work,
which includes our building program, missionaries, and the special 
pioneer work, in addition to our publishing of literature."
 
In other words, quit asking questions and get the money! It is
obvious that J.W.'s are troubled by this latest "light" designed
to fill the Watch Tower's coffers to overflowing so they can build
their empire. We can only hope J.W.'s will realize that they have been
promoted from unpaid salesmen to unpaid fundraisers and exit this
"non-prophet" organization!
 
------------------- end of second article ---------------------------
 


UPS AND DOWNS OF THE JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES IN THE UNITED KINGDOM
 
Doug Harris of Reachout Trust (Alpha Place, Garth Road, Morden,
Surrey SM4 4LX, ENGLAND) reports that in the Watchtower of January
01, 1991 the figures for Britain showed the following:
 
The percentage of increase of Jehovah's Witnesses was down by 2%
over the previous year's increase, as were the number of baptisms
down also. Bible studies conducted were down also.
 
The UP figues also spelled bad news for the J.W.'s. It is taking
the J.W.'s more and more time to get one convert to baptism. The
1990 figures showed it took 3,875 hours of work to get ONE person
baptized! 
 
WORLDWIDE DATA
 
The following is an analysis of the 1990 membership data of the
Watchtower:
 
More than 1 in 4 J.W.'s left the Society due to voluntary
disassociation, disfellowshipping, or dying.
 
Worldwide it took 2,969 hours to get ONE recruit. This translates
to 316 months of going door-to-door and average of 9.4 hours per month
for one recruit. (This is 26.3 years for ONE recruit folks!) In this
time the average J.W. places 1896 magazines. 99.7% of a J.W.'s time
is spent selling magazines for the Society!
 
NOTE FROM VINCE BANIAL: The Watch Tower claims that it's literature is
free here in Canada and in the US, although a request is made for
a donation. In other countries around the world that is not the case 
and their literature is still sold. Look for a future issue of AWAKEN 
to detail some of the reasons behind the change to so called free 
literature for a donation basis here in North America (excluding Mexico
where literature is also still sold).
 
---------------------- end of final article ---------------------------
 
The articles this month are being presented for EDUCATIONAL purposes.
They were written by Lori MacGregor, a former British Jehovah's Witness.
Lori publishes a wonderful quarterly newletter, called NEWS & VIEWS. Like
many who have stopped following the Watch Tower Bible And Tract Society
Of Pennsylvania, she now tries to inform the public about the Watch
Tower Society. Lori has much more information about the Watch Tower. If
you or someone you know is involved with or getting involved with the
Jehovah's Witnesses then please take a moment to write to Lori for help.

In Canada please write to : Lori MacGregor
                            BOX 73,
                            Balfour, B.C.
                                     V0G 1C0
 
In the US please write to : Lori MacGregor
                            BOX 591,
                            Point Roberts, Wa. 98281
  

All correspondance will be kept STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.


P.S. If you should call, please mention that you heard about her
     from Vince Banial. I get nothing from you mentioning my name.
     I would just like her to know that I believe in her effort and
     continue in my support of her helpful activity.

------------------ end of this issue of awaken -------------------

Please share the info found in these issues of AWAKEN with other
members of the faith to which you belong. Consider using this
info within publications issued to members of your faith. One
example is to use this info within Church bulletins. People need
to become informed about the Watchtower and it's teachings. Why ?
Jehovah's Witnesses go door to door preaching whatever the
Watchtower has told them to preach. They are trained weekly to
respond to any and all objections to their preaching. They are
told by the Watchtower that the Watchtower is the only TRUTH
and that the Watchtower is the only TRUE religion. They are 
told by the Watchtower that all other faiths, teach
false teachings because all other faiths are agents of SATAN.
They have no qualms attacking any and all aspects your belief
system, when they come on their un-asked for visits. They are
trained to SELL you on the Watchtower's teachings, just as they
themselves had been SOLD. 

By becoming informed about the Jehovah's Witnesses, one will be 
better prepared to decide whether one should get invloved with 
this group.
 
 
Copyright (c) 1991 by Vince Banial, Toronto Ontario Canada.
This material cannot be incorporated into any book without the
empress and written permission of Vince Banial. This file may be 
freely uploaded to any BBS, as long as it remains unchanged.  

