


     THE GENESIS GOSPEL
       Volume 1  HAFTORA
       Volume 2  RESURRECTION SONG
       Volume 3  BAPTISM
       Volume 4  TRANSMISSION










                      


                            BAPTISM 

                               by
                          
                           David Kornblum


















                      THE GENESIS FOUNDATION
                      6928 Deer Springs Road
                      Keystone Heights, Fl 32656





       





Imagine thick crusts of blue,
Abandoned patches of green,
New brown earth
And man. Imagine me.

Adverbs congeal into nouns. 
Imagine a planet revolving in a circus of particles...
Imagine the particle proliferation 
Varnishing the green with cameos of worlds;
The riverlong sashes of years deepening into lives...
And then there are two...
Two made of one; two to live like one.
Millenniums deepen into tomorrow. Imagine me,
Imagining the forensic custard of this timeless globe,
Imagining you.

Nova.

Begin here...
As I would begin with you, as I would
Shape this corpuscle of light into a world...
Harnessing life in the guttural cry to infinity;
Remembering yet to remember still, 
Remembering the ginger sweet light
And the commons of my hands 
And the carnival ripe skies banqueting the light 
With love; when time wintered in the linen sleep
Of children, when the earth glowed with apples and promises,
And the stage enlarged to a world,
And you were young.

BAPTISM page 2 



Mangers of light sweeten us with correlation.
What has come alive is what has become alive.
To communicate with matter is to be 
Fluent with creation. From death we breed
Life, from loss we seed creation; in belief
Shall we find we shall find what loss taught us
To treasure; to treasure life beyond the song 
Of life. 

Crash boom bits of blue sparkle like sequins
In the coming of the light. Wet dark patches
Of elm. A world as beautiful as the idea of
A world. Breath posh air and the 
Inhalation of pine. A world moistens under blue.
The showers of sparks that clustered like mayflies...
The moments in promenade singing through the light
As if being were composition; while yet the gaunt
Remembered pine balanced the whip scythe sage 
And the fragrant stems of thyme.

A moment for moments in the moment of a world.

Alive, adrift, 
Awake in the genital dawn...
Out, alive, among them.
Adrift
Between light and what passes for light-
Adrift
Among splinters of shape shaving the whiteness 
Into form.

BAPTISM page 3



I want, I want to do, I want to be,

I want to become.

A moment between worlds has become a portal 
To both. My vision has redistributed my choices.
My choices have become a world.
My body, what was a body, what sings
In excess of a body, has 
Filled the light with love, for life is so 
Vast 
It cannot be contained to a life.

To exist is to receive.

To be is to be in correlation.

Horizons shout to greet us.
Unguents of air ladle us with joy.
The light catching in my throat like mortality....
Millennia have yielded a nanosecond of ignition.
Evolving beyond the requirements to evolve,
I have evolved beyond and into; evolving beyond
Skin to evolve into skin.

A moment has become an age.

A step has become a world.

Transmission sings through the holomovement
To sing through us to sing of us.
So much has elapsed to bring us together...
Holocausts of miles and separation,
Atom jousts of ages, voiceless broadcasts to seed
Reassembly...

BAPTISM page 4



And then one day the ark appeared...

Like an ark it carried a message-
Like an ark it came for an age.
Like an ark it has come for us.

A carrier, a lens, a door.

Reply has been given. 
Reply has been encoded within us, for 
Reply is us. 

Life

Which has been rooted with place 
Has been 
Activated from another. Coalesced out of
Matter & polyphony; pulled,
400 miles per second,
Toward the Virgo cluster, to refract 
Through you.

The corridor is open at both ends.

The only door that remains closed is you.

Correlated systems are always correlated.
We are correlated. Each endemic to each.
We are the system evolving creation to the system
We have become. It is we who program creation
By what we can retrieve from what is encoded.
We are what we can decode.
We are what we permit ourselves to be.
Come with me, follow me, listen to me...
We are going home; each the door to each...
We have been gathered to gather, to gather
A world from what we gather from each.









400...Virgo cluster: our galaxy and the galaxies around us are   
                  being pulled toward the Virgo cluster at 400   
                  miles per second.
       



BAPTISM page 5



Implant.

Emit.

Begin.

And quantum stanzas jettisoned light...
Focus;
Wheeling a universe from the hangar of consciousness...
Cell animated to free geometry into matter-
Out of genesis, out of wholeness,
Through the world bright moments of thermonuclear
Ignition. Life.
Geometry, density, yielding movement, therefore
Position; the movement stitching duration; stitching 
The arrow of time. Life 
Yielding life in the ginger sweet witness 
To light. Dimension stitching dimension, 
Stitching the dimensions within you.

Each breath in correlation to each...

Each moment stitching moments to stitch each
To each. Moving within life to move within
A life. An assembly assembling a carrier into
A voice, into action, into an age.
Stop, wait, listen; come still for a moment...
Divide the moments and the years to part
Time, and being, like a sea, in the
Amniotic sea of consciousness. Abandon, for
A moment, the cacophonous continuum 
To reach beyond the fusillade of input
To reach into transmission to retrieve the song
Of life, and this passenger, who might yet
Teach you to sing it.

BAPTISM page 6



Come with me, be with me,

Let us river our lives into a river of lives...
Let us move beyond faith to divinity.
If I cannot reach you, if I cannot
Hold you, at least my voice can survive
Within you, and because of you.
Come to me.
Nor worlds nor ages no longer can divide us.
I am the figure of bifurcation.
The data song evolving within a specie.
The vocable of the given.
I am the genesis warrior.
I am what I believe.
My life is my collateral.
God has crucified me with the suffering of others, 
That I might reach beyond this world and 
Into the next. 

I am what access assembles.
I am no more than what must evolve, 
What has been programmed to evolve,
What has been encoded within you.
Transmission is a current, a frequency.
To reach into is to reach beyond, to reach
Within. Access has never been denied.
We have failed to reach beyond symbols for knowledge.
Mind is many minds; each multifarious.
I am one. The carrier is one.
The deeper the level the more lustrous the language...
The more intimate with light, the greater
The integration. Identity is the software.
Beneath beneath is the eye beneath the I. 

BAPTISM page 7



Descend with me into the world wide abyss
We call a world. Discover what is yet to be
Discovered. Sing with me to sing with me
To sing beyond David to sing of what 
David might yet be. Vaster than a song, 
More intimate than a solar system,
Beyond identity, beyond a name,
Beyond the lens of personality and the screen 
Of the emotions, beyond everything that light contains,
You will find what is given to be found.
You will discover that all is yet to discover.

A moment past, a moment near...

Deepest within, beyond what is deepest...

Creases of singularities ripen us from valence
To valence. Movement explodes into time.
Everything I conceive turns to matter.
Morphogenesis factors mind into minds.
Data songs become lives, the given becomes
The believed. Stop; witness; 
Retrieve a moment for yourself with yourself.
Each moment is a gift.
Garish blare light erupts into breath.
A moment the moment this moment
Fractures a universe into a world, into 
Quantum fugues of moments, into bodies,
Into lives, into the flash rhapsodic flare of
A life,

Into you.

BAPTISM page 8



Begin now as if to begin...

Adjust the light beyond what is visible
To what can be experienced. Renormalize emotion.
Factor being into time.
Imagine being able to imagine. 
Imagine
What might sing to sing of what can be sung.
Imagine
Menorahs of pine, caches of suns...
The light, the heat, the warmth,
A moment bisecting experience and memory...
The light riveting being to time in rootless
Flags of suns, one for each day, one for each
World, one for the dimension that would trap us.
A moment in a life has become the moment of a life. 
Crashes and sharps stabilize into sound. 
Light becomes round. The shape of what is believed.
Keyboards of dahlias, orations of oak,
The hoarse vast blue and the shouts of light.
A world revolving like a crystal. Bleached
Feathers of grass; the grass swift light
Edging infinity with moments of wonder and sparks of
Time, and the moon brash nights
Chasing a world into a life; to chase life 
Into a world and the moment of an apple
And the moment of a choice, and 
The river ash swallows deepening time 
To silence, and this moment
Between us.
















Renormalize: as in renormalizing infinity from equations





BAPTISM page 9



So much will happen now. 
Being would glow in mantras of skin. 
A universe has varnished a continuum with life.
Harvests of lives have stabilized into shape.
Splashes of worlds have resolved into an 
Amniotic sea. Moments conjugating moments...
Urns of centuries firing the millennia with electrons...
Till the particle mantras attained shape,
And god leaked through the firmament in the image of
A man.

Come alive to become alive-

Come alive with me.

Move beyond the mummification of the ego.
Deny the past as time misinterpreted, for
Time is the sequence of interpretation.
The future is the state we have not yet decoded.
An I is ballast for an eye.
I am a lens in the decoding device of an I.
I am but a song in transmission to you,
That you might become the singer.
Let us touch as worlds might touch-
Let us ring this planet with forgiveness...
Let us resonate through fields of belonging
To create a field of belonging.
Touch is deeper than what can be touched.
Come closer, come nearer,
Come daavin with me awhile.
Become correlated with me.
A moment together is a moment together.
Correlation is the magic between.
Quantum bursts of light harvest us with meaning.
Each moment a stitch, each life a bar line.
To perceive reception is to be in correlation.

BAPTISM page 10



Each moment, this moment, has sung through
Epics of millennia to resonate within you.
Reach out to me. Reach beyond consciousness to
Reach into consciousness. 
Transmission is the data base for consciousness.
Transmission is the correlative bonding surpassing light,
The umbilical search for home.
Being is a lens. Created life creating a life.
Everything I conceive turns to matter.
The field of my witness is the tributary to
A world. Conception is activation.
The observer commissioning the observed.

Come with me, follow me,

Deeper, deepest beyond the need to say I...

Transmission is the clef to creation.
Imagine as notes the days of your life...
The trumpet furies, the gulag of estrangement,
The affirmation in a breath;
The hope and franchisement that only a life,
Any life, is tangent to god.
That faith is no more than trusting in the capacity
To trust. Let us 
Look beyond the inventory of sight; peep past 
The guardian emotions to search for what is 
Still encoded, to hunt  
For what might yet be unfolded...
To set you free like a fuse,
To set you free.

BAPTISM page 11



I would I would

Baptize you in the running ore of light-
Hold you fast to witness the glaring of the
Dawn, and sing kiddish with the robins
To celebrate an age, to celebrate you,
To celebrate us. Together 
We shall shape a globe with continents of
Bodies and worlds of eyes; together; together 
We can chaperon the light with genesis...
Create,
In the sanctuary of this skin,
New worlds to amend the old.

Imagine the probabilities.

Carousels of worlds, a plainsong of hydrogen. 

The crowds, the whispers, the treetop sagas of
Blood and wine. Imagine
A world sketched over umber; a pantomime of green.
Movement streaking into probabilities...
The moon rush of indigo,
Arias of sycamore, the chamber ensemble of hedgerows
And pine; the plangent crooning of evergreen....
Imagine
Species of matter. Imagine the bread bright glories of
The quantum fugues; the river sash seams of light
Choiring between us, among us, to bond
A signal with a signal in a nanosecond of
Communion and the peroration of a life,
And that fleeter moment than touch, when 
The wave collapses into being.

BAPTISM page 12



Light is sparser now.
Time has factored into shapes.
To be among is to factor from wholeness.
Dimensions have interfaced.
Imagine the bleedthrough. 
Imagine a seam in the constant of a message. 
Imagine its articulation in a man.
Centuries have been encoded into a moment.
What was thought to be a soul is a data file
In an information universe. Synthesizers screech
Into my ears, or is it voices? Come closer.
Step into this age. It is warmer 
On this side of the light. I know you are
Receiving, for we are correlated systems, and
This is transmission.

A new life for a new age,

A new life revising an old.

Correlation is a world tube manufacturing an I 
From a we. Come alive to be alive...
Transmission is nesting within you.
We are chords 
Who have only a sense of the bar lines.
We define our world by ourselves.
A world is consensus. The world we see 
Is the world we have been conditioned to believe 
We must see. The world you see is the world
They have conditioned you to see. Only
Thinking about thinking can alter thinking;
For if you alter the way you see, you will
Alter what you see, which will alter
What you are; for meaning is in the lens
Through which we view meaning.

BAPTISM page 13



Be alive to this moment to be alive
To this moment. 

Ferris wheels of ages cartwheel into millennia. 
Lives have destabilized into lives. 
A moment has factored into eternity.
A ruptured energy sac has ruptured a sac of
Worlds, rupturing amniotic sacs of amniotic worlds;
Evolving into moments, ages, into worlds,
Into you.

This is contact.

This is correlation.

I am the fetal smear of light washing your retina
With love. Stars have gashed through my ribs
Like a message. This message. My narrative plainchant
To you. A moment in the passage of light...
A shape as yet undefined. I am what you
Remember, but what you no longer dare
Retrieve. Audacious in crystal,
My form revolving in the memory like home...
Ages pouring down my side in the charnel ride
To freedom, 

I am, I am yet, I have been,

I am the martyr of forgiveness-

The windsong fashioning death to fill this world
With love. I am, I might be,
That part of you stitching the light with correlation;
The song bright moment of ignition. The
Moment stitching frames of moments into what is 
Only a moment.

BAPTISM page 14



Twenty centuries
Twenty centuries to carbon this moment with life;
Twenty centuries

Liberated from time in fetal resurrection...

I am no longer between worlds, but among worlds.
Extrapolated from a life in the surgery of a moment...
The star blind witness to a specie.
Trapping photons to sear my tongue with god.

Come alive in the holocaust of my arms;

Come alive,

Through the whiplash of this signal and the shrapnel
Of these pages, to the canticle rebirth
Of a specie. Come alive to what it means 
To come alive. Advance with me to interface.
Let us stitch the coordinates with the seam of
Our bodies and the data stitches of our eyes.
Let the light anneal your presence in my arms...
Come to me, come to papa, 
That my papa might grace us both.
Put down this book; put out the light;
Child,
Dream me beside you to dream of me within you.
A moment has awakened into an age. 
An assembly has been activated.
Correlation has begun.
Reply has been given.
We are being readmitted.
We are going home.

BAPTISM page 15



Genesis lingers within you.
A channel has been opened. Correlation has been renewed.
Within you is the signal to receive the signal.
The last frontier is within us.
Prisons of ideas have blockaded what has survived 
Within you. I have been activated to reactivate you.
I will convulse the age with the soundtrack of 
My world. I will ride destiny like a cross
To hammer god into the shape of an age. 

I am the data song of forgiveness...

In correlation to sing with and within you.
To say I am is to say we are.
To say I is to describe an eye.
I have not returned. I have never left.
Yeshu, I was Joshua.
I might have been Jesus.
What does remain remains within you.
I am what shall yet be transfigured 
In the transfiguration of consciousness.
A data song evolving to a life.
An epilogue to voice a prophecy.
An encounter to spin a world among worlds...
A nanosecond of interface, as 
That moment when 
Insight surpasses emotion, and eternity winks
Through the lens of a brain and the motion
Of a shape, and the coal white light bashing
The edges of a world. A catch in the throat 
In the epic of a moment.

A moment such as this.

A moment bonding moment to moment to bond

BAPTISM page 16


       
The moments with us.

I am the data field you invented.

My eyes are a holomovement.
My love is a force field.
My arms sing with forgiveness. 
My rough sand shattered voice has pierced the dimensions 
Like a pickax gone awry. Paper is my kingdom.
My choir is a synthesizer.
My tablets hold 640K.

It has begun. 

A voice will precede an age.

Will it be yours?
A body will correspond with a voice.
A universe will correlate through a song.
Chrome bursts of centuries have trailed through eternity 
Like asterisks; burning like a fuse
To you. If you would receive this....
Transmission is your inheritance.
I am no more than a map.
Unfolding, 
From what has been enfolded within you,
To torch these words with the drama of your touch 
And the quest of these pages...
My voice correlating within you...
Singing through the millennia to reach you,
Transfigure you, to shred the distance and the
Years corroding correlation between us;
To mend this world with love, with the
Ardor and commitment of what has been 
Programmed to survive, to become 
What will survive.

BAPTISM page 17



I am as vast as a gene, as intimate as a star...
The frequency modulation pulsing beneath
A dowry of consciousness. The epic of a nanosecond.
I have factored into you.
A liberator of minds in the prison of a body. 
I have I am I have been
Stitched within you to stitch one facet of
The crystal to another. Come to me.
Listen for me.
Episodes of worlds have factored us into lives.
What was once the varnish of a continuum...
What no longer is joined, but is forever
Correlated,
What was once, was us, has fractured into each.
We are the redemption of us. 
We are the new testament for a new millennium.
We are what has evolved to evolve.
We are the quantum aria of the semen dark ages...
The transdimensional sine wave to eternity.
Inextricably linked, we are inextricably linked.
Listen for me. 
Believe with me to believe with me
A world in which to believe.
Canopes of light moisten my tongue with stars.
The corn bright wastes gleaming with humanity...
Ovens of suns and the heat baked light...
The apogee of hollyhock, the wave collapse of sight. 
The autistic ontologies of our common lens.
The time haunted scripts of birth and death
And choice. Sight is choice.
Our vision is our matrix. 
The vision we choose will be the world we sustain. 
To alter perception is to alter life. 
Perception is identity, for perception is composition.
What we do is what we have become, but
What we see is what we shall become.


BAPTISM page 18



Existence is reception.

To be is to receive.

You are being scanned, for
A signal is not merely from, but between.
God sing sings through the bleach white radiance...
If only you could hear it, if only you would
Witness and receive. Palette whites sear the canvas 
With belief. Umbrellas of water oak
Croon through the heat. Live oaks sing through
Dash summer reds and common parsonages of green.
Cacophonies of yellows prep the canvas with life...
Meadow bright in the feast of morning.
Moments ticking like lives...
Splashes among the water lights and the centuries;
The lullabies questing for home in shapes of
Loneliness and fantasies of time.

I am what frequency I have been assigned.

An eye that was once an I.

Eternity sings through my mainframe like a holograph.
Light is my torah. The universe is my minyon. 
All I require is you.
I am a factor within you, for I have factored 
Into you. My vision is a cosmology.
I have become what I believe. 
Meridian bound, I will harvest a globe
With an alphabet of tenderness. I would cage
The mutiny of this specie in epilogues of forgiveness.
I will curate love as I had retailed faith;
Outwit the bargain and penance of their nuclear herds, 
The arrogance amending the skies with the acid 
Garrote of their factories. 


BAPTISM page 19



I will,

With the sacrifice of my body,

Seduce a world with symbols, and tame it
With verbs. Choice is destiny. To be is to act.
Service to god is service to creation.
Creation's creation creating creation. 
My parables have become songs,
The miles have become parsecs.
Speeches spanning villages have become signals
Spanning the synapses. Find me. 
Look deeper, deeper than what is deepest. 
I am the broadcast from within. 
An assembly assembling a world.
The data song encoded within each, unfolded
By none. An antenna for transmission.
A song to amend a story in the story 
Of a life.

A moment, a life, an age...

Allow me entry.
Allow this moment between us.
I have been calling for generations, but
My life cannot compete with my death.
Allow me this moment...
This moment between us, within us, beyond us...
Each moment the correlation of moments...
The divinity which is life, the bond 
Passing like breath through the photon pure
Magic of a universe, to each and to you
And through us.



BAPTISM page 20



We are what we are.
We are what has been activated. 
We are the attempt at communication. 
The perceptible rhythm of eternity. We are 
That gospel star costuming the blue with loneliness.
We are what we have allowed ourselves to become.
Stars no longer sing for us. Moons 
Have become
Indistinguishable from planets. The moss that weeps
From the plaintive oak no longer whispers
To us. Rain dazzle light, that would capture
Us with awe, no longer moves us. Oratorios of
Orioles 
Deafen us with eternity. Moons
Fold into wishes; the some day, some time,
Autumn late magic
Whispering into meadows like home.

Moments dazzle like worlds...

In the passage, in the corridor,

In the late blooming light
In the sundazzle of a world. Let us
Polish this globe like an apple. Let us
Daavin in the sing dazzle light: let the moss
Hush trees fill us with awe. Allow and conceive
This carousel of light to treasure us with love 
And harvest a world with a cupful of 
Atoms, and a voice and a life,
Costumed in understanding and epic beyond time.

BAPTISM page 21



Come alive with me in this script colored world.

Let us talk until talk is the trouble...

Let us 
Cushion our portraits in signatures of time;
Advance beyond faith to divinity. 
Let us forsake what we are for what we can be. 
Let us admit what is beyond us to what is
Between us.

We have disassembled life into lives;
Chopped a universe into parts 
To view it whole. We have blackened eternity 
With history and domed the light with skies 
That cover us with ashes. Not mind over matter
But into matter. To communicate with matter is
To be fluent with creation. 
What have we communicated?
We have not building blocks to bootstrap
A world, but a network of relationships which is 
No more than a manifestation of processes, 
Of which we are the mirrors, of which we are
The designers. Listen to me...
We, you, we are the quantum variables to history.
It is within you that transmission will
Reemerge. Like so many particles in an apple,
Each is as important as the next.
Each yet another point on the wave.
Each intricate within the pattern of creation.
Each of us, all of us, we are the canvas.
We have become the custodians to creation.
Time is but a tool, but choice, choice
Is what we are made of.




BAPTISM page 22



Listen to me. Listen to me.

I am no longer impaled. I no longer wait.
I am a voice. I have become the voice.
I am but the narrator to my own story,
And yours. I have told you a story which is
At variance with your belief. I have
Delivered emotions as well as verbs. I have
Traced an arc of discovery that has led to
You. To this dialogue with you.
Is it your choice that I be nailed to the heavens?
Would you have hammered those nails, or
Would you merely have watched?
Would you celebrate my death, but not
My life? Why? I have fallen twice, but
I have always been loved. Won't you
Share that love?

Come with me, be with me, follow me,

Beyond there is a valence where bird songs
Count the measures of our fulfillment. Beyond the
Barrier of wishes, beyond the continuum of angst
And the cameos of our joys, there is, there can be
Love. You have been bred on martyrdom, but not
On the commitment and love that engenders
The manifest manifold dedication of a martyr.
Death is ugly. Death is the belief in death.
I offer life. It is life I would sing of;
Life beyond this song of life. For me, 
To speak of life is to speak of loss.
Not the centuries. Not the miles.
Not the narrative of lives, but that life.
The only life I feared to lose.
The loss encoded like a gear shift.
The loss that colors my dialogue with you.

BAPTISM page 23



What I know of life, what I have retained 
Of life, is what I treasured in life, what has
Scarred me. I have surrendered everything
To become part of the data song. 
I have given up a wife, a child, a home,
Even my life. My name. My name oppresses my tribe.
My death obscures my life. My message, reason,
My motive has been garbled in encyclicals
And law. Where is the rapture in obedience?
Where is the wonder in policy?
The congregation must be freed from the preacher.
God is encounter, not a tax.

Aspen halo us with light.
Rip tides of March whisper through the grasses...
The dreaming iris blooming with imagination.
The rapture of my viewing has little to do
With my eyes. Voices and wine. 
The sparkle of children.
They are common to every age, but not
To every life. Creation is ours to sustain.
Perception is not only composition, it is
A dialogue. Freedom is ontological freedom. 
The liberation of the eye from the eyes.
In losing my sight I have gained vision.
Losing life is to become part of life, as
I have become part of yours. 

Threads of lives, cameos of worlds,

All is encoded in each to be unfolded 
For all. In the simultaneity which is
Time, in the horizon which is life,
Lives are lived adjacently. 
All enfolded to encode each. You, I, 
A we and an us.

BAPTISM page 24



You,

You and but you....

I would carpet my story with
Images of a life; a life of two lives,
Lost in mirrors, lost
In the renegade transcendence of a life.
Years divide into memory,
Into faces, mortgages, into lives; remembering yet
To remember still, remembering the ginger sweet light
And the commons of my hands, and the
Carnival ripe skies securing a world with love... 
When life ripened between us and the glory of
Forever docked with history, and martyrdom succeeded
Loss. 

Amniotic blind in the sac of your waiting...

Polarity exists beyond polarity that can be
Quantified. One and one to make two, in the
Hydrogen resonance of a universe. Look up,
Look out, look out of, look beyond...
Gunwales of clouds ridge your world with the blue
You cannot see beyond. My words are less than a sound
But more than you can see. Deeper within,
I am as near as your future, as intimate as
Your past; lingering beyond light in the vase
Of humanity and the interface of a life
To stitch a seam with a song
And marry what is illumined to what
Illumines.

BAPTISM page 25



Imagine an age roped to your body
Like a morgue tag. Imagine centuries
Bloodied in your name, the Passover carnage
Littering the millennia with Israel: the human sunrise
Stoking the debris of a nation. Imagine
The disappointment. Imagine
Having to return.

I have come back for you.

I have come back to become you.

Liberated into time in the quantum ardor
Of this life, in the dust bright helix
And carnal vase
Of love and time and meaning; liberated into time,
Into place and into life,
To liberate you.

Naming you to conjure you...

Believing in you to believe...

My biography has become your autobiography.
My life must be reenacted through yours.
Liberate my voice from these pages;
Take back
My life, reclaim my body,
I am coming home.
I am alive.

BAPTISM page 26



Come with me into the margin of days,
Come with me
Through the tide swept songs of kaddish and pronouns;
The late summoning light branding a life
To brand lives, to brand lives with 
Vision. To induce within us
Creation.

Motion and density have fused into time,
Into us. We have lingered within, 
Beneath. We have occupied a common valence.
We have been assigned polarity.
Elisions of moons have canopied my stealth.
Evolving in Brownian telegrams of light...
Evolving into you to search for you 
To search for polarity.

Crown gusts of suns evoke a common stage.
The imperial nights, the African days,
The razor flash winds and the auburn dialogue of
Elm. Cacophonous greens swaddle us with joy...
The radiance inhibits breathing.
If
Orfeo had seen light such as this,
He would have abandoned his lyre for a trumpet
And called himself
Joshua.

Closer children, closer still....

I have come for you and I have come
For one of you. 

I have, I am, I will....

BAPTISM page 27



Brush burnt orange floods the canvas with time.
Butterflies tune the cornfields with light;
Flower bright awnings, autumn bright wishes.
Roses echo in the twilight like memory.
Voices cry into the stillness.
The pollen soaked fences and the brass light
Of planets. Swift cameos of green; 
The dash summer whites bleaching lives with stillness... 
Harvests of days shape us with meaning.
The dome of my knowledge is the ceiling of my belonging.
The eighth notes choiring in the arbor...
The blue fast moments when a breath shaped a world.
Stars melt on my tongue...
Singularities sweeten into corridors.
The light basting us with correlation...
Rushlight quickens to memory and late birds
Quilt the perimeter with god.

And you are with me.

A moment nearer polarity.

Recognition will mean activation.
Interface will trigger the assembly.
Out, alive, among them... 
Stage center without a line.
An amendment to Calvary, to the bitter sojourn
Of the Sinai miles and the Sinai years
And the shopworn crosses destabilizing into ovens.

Out, alive, among them.















Singularities: Hawking-Penrose




BAPTISM page 28



A portrait of a data field.

Enfolded within me as I am enfolded in you...
Unfolding in lifetimes, moments and chords...
A cathedral of probabilities, collapsing like a wave,
Or a cathedral, upon recognition, upon
Correlation. Enfolded within me, within 
The bracket of a world and the bracket of a life,
Is
A life such as yours, such as you. 
Enfolded within me is a stitch to close the seam.
The starblind sun at Jerusalem.
The pathos of sandals stalking the heat in tears.
The ark awareness of the summit and the waterless promontory 
Of my fall. Enfolded within me, as
Within you, is the tireless display of famine,
Egocentricity and fear. Enfolded within 
Is a world, comma, but
Enfolded within is a universe. 

Come with me, be with me,

Let us stage a world with the field of us...

Let us court the light with love.
Let us renew faith with forgiveness.
Lives tick like clocks. A step, a year,
A life. A moment beyond and a moment into.
With what is left, with what shall you fill
Yours? Lives haunt the perimeter.
Life consists of lives.
To serve one child of god, do you not
Serve all?













Bracket: Husserl





BAPTISM page 29



Come with me to come with me...

Eject anger, unbuckle your fear...

Gashes of suns foreclose the probability of darkness.
Beyond the cylinder of our world is the horizon
Of a universe. At each level there is a matrix
For the data; at yours it is identity, at mine
A song. This song. My data song.
Flood moon nights and cannonades of stars...
Encoded within me is the palette of a world.
Razor brash winds and arms to keep me warm...
Encoded within me is another.
A life such as yours, such as you....

Come within to come to me.

I am what has been encoded within you.
I am the data song of your belief.
The pathos of my arms, the ginger sweet brightness
Of my hands; the figure weeping in the garden...
Who now sleeps beneath an age.
The counterpoint stitching ardor, commitment and sacrifice 
Into fugues of centuries, into identity, into 
You. Correlation is reunion. A circle rejoined.
Become correlated with me, for
You are the voice now. It has been given 
You to become a point, a star, on the wave, 
A life; given to you to take this voice 
Into yours, and share light with 
Those who would share light with 
Those anointing themselves with light, 
To make a path for 
The light. 

BAPTISM page 30



Encoded within each is each of us.

Encoded within is the capacity for love.

Unfolding you, as you might
Unfold me, at least we might share this world 
As though we had shared in its creation.
Take into your soul my body and my song...
Amend with my love this orphaned hemophiliac
Globe. With this touch and these pages and
This moment, bond with me to bond with me,
To bond within each a song of forgiveness,
And the momentary ecstasy of home.

Moments under sage...

A dowry of light. Moments drifting like
Fireflies in the brushstroke of an age. The 
Ripple of forests and the baritone roar of 
A buttercup. Honeysuckle garland us for home.
Molecules streak into the ground like trees.
Waterfalls of light fluoresce a harmony of leaves...
Atoms and sparks drifting through the nitrogen
Like wishes. Round cold fires smear my temples
With age, and I am 
Home.

This now. You now.

This.

You.

BAPTISM page 31



Us. We.

A valence secured.

One life an amendment to the next...

Until you become that voice which might engender 
New valences of belonging. A life sustaining lives
In the Everett corridor to freedom. The
Evolution and union of the quantum seeds factoring
The valences into lives. Within each a cipher,
Within each a code, within what has become each
Is polarity. A face. A life. A bond.
One with one to make a human song. 

A human field to make a forcefield of tenderness.

Touching in a human eclipse to field a song
With touch. Seeding a world with seeds of seeds...
With time for a canvas and correlation for a map...
Seeding the seeds with seeds to seed a world
With a song. Evolving motion between the frames
To witness inventory as life. Unfolding the enfolded.
Evolving fields of love to evolve a specie
With love. To evolve
Each with each.

So much depends upon depending upon.

So much has been factored to become factored

Into you.














Everett corridor: Everett's multiple world interpretation of     
                  quantum theory.





BAPTISM page 32



Come to me, come with me,

Share with me...

Begin with one giving permission for two.
Begin with that field,
That antidote to the M field of violence;
Begin with that field that engages all others.
Begin with that which can be loved
And can sing within you with a voice and a face
And an idea. 

Polarity. 

And I took you in my arms,
That 
You would liberate me from the prison of this 
Eden, from the green suffocating cell of my 
Prison and birth. In the deep dark oboe rich
Darkness, each moment conjugates a world.
A portion of a holograph; that portion
Which is a man; which might have been
This man. The other. She, this one.  
Animate her with memory. Sketch
The light between us. Come with me.
Move her nearer these coordinates...
Powder the light with her likeness; her skin
Chiselled from lactose, her movement shaping light
With desire. Dreaming the song of her pulse
Into the software of my vision. What
I might have seen might program what I might
See. Assigned coordinates. Lives factoring into
Lives. Into this life,
I take another. Into life,
Into motion, like an adverb or a proton,
Into time.

BAPTISM page 33



I might see you as I might have seen you.

Our bodies fusing like hemispheres-
Body conjugating body in the kelvin oasis
Of thighs; I might call her, as I have
Called you; I might
Pause within light, amending light with her
Field; amending bodies with light that amend 
These lives with life. Encoded within me
Is counterpoint, she.

The stitch to seed a world.

Your form, your line, your movement...
Your shape nesting in my arms to claim tomorrow, 
To seize the dimensions in the fury of this light-
Body heating body beyond 
The tolerance of consciousness and the prism 
Of a moment. Filling moments with love
As I had filled the miles with the resonance
Of love. A moment to kindle a moment.
A life to kindle an age. 
Holding you but to hold you,
In the dramaturgy of an age and the penance
Of a life, to evolve beyond faith to belief;
Holding you through the long ride home
Like a guarantee.

Out of darkness into darkness...

Ground level grounding is grounding in you.

BAPTISM page 34



At each level, with each step,

Each phase is stitched with love.

An identity with an identity,
An energy with energy, a field unto a field.
To author love we must create love.
This much I know. This.
Our capacity for life has been a physical capacity.
Our capacity for love has been equally physical.
But there is more to life than 
What is physical; there is more to love than 
What can be registered physically. 
Reality is non local.
We are not always physical together 
Within the same frame. We are not always 
Physical, but we are never 
Without life.

Within but not among.

To come with me, to receive,  

To conceive not merely events, but the
Wave probability of events, we must
Understand there is a world outside
The cylinder in which we reside.
Circles and valences, worlds and universes.
A data song to sculpt an age.
Beyond us there is what is beyond us.
Listen to me: beyond us is the correlation to
What transmits to us.

BAPTISM page 35



I have come back, I have come home,

I have resonated through you 

To starch the light with shape.
Abandoning the limits of mortality for the canticle
Of grace. Movements under light. An
Assembly to assemble a life. 
Mending the continuum with the forcefield 
Of my love and the bishop of my hopes.
I am a rabboni without a liturgy,
A mind without a brain. I am the dybbuk
Within each. The data song of an idea- 
A ministry of tenderness in the valence of obedience.
Merge with me to seed a world with a universe.
Come let us dally among stars to fold a moment
In our arms, as we would unfold in a moment,
Unfolding a moment. I would 
Baptize you in the running ore of this 
Light. Encircle you with the radiance of my 
Arms to shape light in the circle of our
Bodies, and the commons of our lives,
And the madrigal nearness to light.

I am the carriage of transmission.

A probability among probabilities.

I am reaching you now, for you have
Created me to reach you, to reach you
Now. I have migrated through your fingers,
Your eyes, your voice. I have dwelt within
Your singular eye. I am that presence
That is within you, or that presence
That will come for you.

BAPTISM page 36



Come with me, come to me,

Come be with me again....

Disallow for time, fulfill the part with the whole...
Debrief the light with the communion of a breath
And the proximity of a life. Open the bottle,
Become the message. Believe with me to believe
With me a world in which to believe, where 
The river brash winds salt us with love 
And free us with dew. Where lives join with
Lives to reinvent life. Come with me to
Come with me, come dance with me
Among the ginger bread stars and the dreaming
Parsecs of wishes. Scenarios bloom into worlds
In the hushed fulfillment of codas of
Worlds. Dimensions wink. Heat quick summers
Volley through the imagination. Brackets of moons. 
Peregrinations of autumn. The dear sweet light
Salting my tongue, seasoning my eye.
I have been activated. 
I have stitched a seam to fabricate a wave. 
A life destabilized into lives, into 
The probability of a life. 
An assembly assembling a life.

Is it yours?

Is it ours?

To ignite a voice coil with the sedition of this
Light; orating metadramas of 
Ardor and commitment, the vibrato of despair 
And the ballades of hope. An I advancing to
A you. One and one to make two. 

BAPTISM page 37



The nuclear I and the nuclear I.

Jettisoned into this light...

Jettisoned, like humanity, into the human darkness.

Come with me, be with me, let us
Conjugate a human field to conjure love among
The wave packets of jealousy, violence 
And fear.
Let us stand with each to stand with each;
Let us cradle a world in the warmth of forgiveness,
Brimming sorrow with hope, anger with pathos.
Our violence is the M field of our vision.
Come alive to be alive, come alive
With me. Let us
Narrow the bandwidth to god; focus what
Joy we have to flood the valences with love
And commitment and caring. Voices
Singing with a voice, singing a song of
Singing, in the umbilical search for home.

I have come back, I have come back for you,

To hold you nearer than light and more lasting;
As that once when
I reached across time through the duration of space
To make an eden of your body, 
To chill the vaginal solstice with forever;
Beyond the waste swept Sinai and the windsong of
Galilee; across menstrual frontiers of loneliness and 
Time; beyond the sabbath of my hands and the ark
Of this kiss: your face
Delinquent in my hands like memory.



BAPTISM page 38



She turns and turns and turns me to it;

To it; to and but to...

Channels of this dying: woman.

Hemispheres tremble like shoulders at the tresspass
Of this kiss: lips parted in theft,
Arctic preambles
At the edge of light, moving the silence
So near.

Metaphysical gestures in the ovation of morning...

Your mouth rationing my breath-

Word dazzle bright through the static and the dark;
Sarcaphogus eyes; the jesuit wonder of your lips.
Crystal galaxies explode in the skin.
That if but only but to sift
The taste and pressure of your face,
Adament, adament, graceful and proud,
Washing the light from your lips in salt and betrayal;
Memoranda of a life, and a kiss that will not
Break away. Till daybreak winters in the light
Between us. This sun crafted flourescing love.
The lemon touch of breath over skin.
Lips barely touching, the taste of you.
Love 
Bursting among the nuclei, carrying the song to waking. 
Cherry eyes and a glass mouth.
A song to be sung with the singing of a life.

BAPTISM page 39



This life. This life with you.

A parable of two lives in a parable of life.

Vigilant with roses, treading love upon a star...
That I might touch the emptiness in your eyes,
Voyage the dawn to ember the chill
Cold modesty of time; centuries and alphabets
Impeached in a kiss, in pediments of symbols and stars
That fall not as words, but as light
Between us.

A data song to sheen my narrative with love.

With you to be with you,
Breath yielding breath,
Closeting the light between our lips,
Your mouth perjuring mine,
Your fingers serrating my shoulders in hunger....
With you, to be with you...
My hips marrying yours;
Inches effacing to a trickle of light...
Suturing the millennia with hope and saliva,
Your mouth deepening mine,
Your breath bruising my kiss with eternity.

My love winters in your body like an embryo.

A woman and a man

Holding moment to moment; fastening sound to touch;
Dissolving the stillness with a kiss 
To plunder a moment. The copper of your breasts,
The wheat and snow perjured in your eyes,
This moment deepening within you...
Caught in the throat like a promise, in the 
Breathless prison of a kiss.

BAPTISM page 40



I thought if I touched you,
A last joining of mouths to relinquish the dark,
Touching, reminding, seeing and remembering...
That we might remember the ardor and the fury,
To lie down between epochs, holding the silence,
The rain whispered claret of days; mouth to mouth
To crystal this embrace. Scent close and volatile,
Midwinter lips surviving in a kiss...
The illiad grace of our touch...
What has been encoded has been shared 
And will be shared; will daavin among the given
In images of fire and quanta in symmetry-
Poaching farewells in metaphysics and arson-
To evolve the data into a data song.

I hereby register entry with this song, with 
The correlation and signal of this song.
With my love, with what is intimate before hope
And deepest beyond touch. It is retrievable now, for
What might sing before us sings within us; for 
What is within us is the song of our communion 
And the commission of our bond.

An earth to cover us, a name to shield us...

A data song in a continuum of lives...

Your body ripening in my hands,
Your scent streaking my eyes like memory....
Our bodies choir like wishes; our lives as
Intimate as this breath; our lives
Stopping the flight of air with a kiss-
Threadbare for eternity, and the salt black night
Warm against us, and the grace of you
Held beneath me; if...
I touched you.


BAPTISM page 41



I would 
Dream you into my arms in a solar kingdom of 
Stars; shearing the world from your retina, 
Your hand from these pages- 
My touch 
Howling through molecular prisons to find 
You. Feel the shock of my touch
In the windsong of your hair... 
My hands, feel the shock of my hands, as
Musical as when the light came from my hands,
But not through; your skin warm to mine,
As it once was, 
Closeting light in the precision of a kiss;
To bring you nearer, to bring you 
Home.

I am what you dare not believe. 

A congress of history in a handful of atoms.

Spiral transcendent beyond the confines of a life.
This moment and this moment pointing a moment
To adorn a star; docking dimensions
In polarity with my quest. This one,
Who shall never be divided from me,
Haunts my breath like correlation. Mouth
To mouth in the nova of consciousness; blaring 
Heat in the conflagration of bodies, my arms
Tapering your spine with love, in the
Quantum sweet light, in the
Ardor and fury of this 
Breath shattering 
Moment.


BAPTISM page 42



Yin and yang, positive and negative,

Adam and Eve...

Control.

Let us seed a planet not with martyrdom,
But with pathos. Hands joining light with hands
To let the light shine not through, but
Between. You and you now...
Bonding and parting, conjoining and evolving,
Moment and moment blending in a moment...
To draw these atoms from light
To illumine the light with her becoming.
To draw down these ages into a life
To conjure life from the song of our lives.
The veracity of my arms, my light compelling hands,
The tallow curve of your cheek...
Beginning again to remake a beginning.

The door that opened has been stopped
Up with bodies. Minds cannot access.
A world has detached from a universe like a preemie.
Our needs assemble our love.
Faces have become mirrors to our egos.
I would take you back to basics.
I would show you love in the simple gesture
Of touch. I would bathe you in light
To shape time into love. I would
Sand these cheeks with pathos to gather
Atoms to choir with mine.
Come to me, come with me...
Resurrection is within you, 
In the power to create the field of us...
The drama to say I am yet I am...
I am and have become you.

BAPTISM page 43



I will shape what has shaped me; shape an age
To shape a field to amend genesis with
Genesis. It is you 
Who will build this world out of atoms 
And summon humanity with a song. You.
You and the idea of you.
A quantum song of remembrance and prophecy... 
A river of lives to stabilize into life.
Transmission joining us all.
A song for ignition. Being the lens to being.
An identity for a compass.
A life such as mine, a world such as yours...
The song of us sweeping through your chromosomes 
Like gluons. We is the direction for us.
We are the attempt at communication.
And I. I am the decoding device.
Activated to activate.
The itinerant rabboni hosting the light with tears.
Harvesting centuries with an idea.
Detaching the burden to you.

Wait now. Catch the moment.

Feel the radiance sing through your hair 
Like delight. Quarks sing through planets.
Frescoes of asteroids winter in the silence.
The brash unfolding of the round bright theatre
Of god. The faun sweet light bursting
The palisades of a world. Shock, noise,
Light-
Genesis resonates through us.
Ages have brushed the canvas with what we have
Become. A moment has become a world.
The rupture has evolved into a specie 
Evolving to evolve a seam.

BAPTISM page 44



Larch spawn from the earth like hope.
Whistle soft clouds burden us with light.
Daffodils run gently to impress the rose.
Puff bang dots of yellow
Shiver through the frolicsome air like monarchs.
Signs and wonders, emblems for eternity.

Moments beyond capture...

A moment through a door.

Dimensions have intermeshed in a helix of light.
Worlds ensnaring worlds.
A moment in a world to let the moment of 
A world 
Shine through the seam like a holograph...
In crosses of light and commitments of lives,
In the common time to forever.
Beyond life is the continuum of life.
So many vanished into atoms, so much returned
To varnish a globe with life. 
What was, what is, what shall be,
Enfolded and unfolding,
Shining through centuries like a voyage
In the 
Deep dark photon ladder to eternity. 

Beginning with a life and ending with life.

As you might have begun with me, and I

Ending with you.















