DELETE THIS PAGE FROM PRINTOUT



THE GENESIS GOSPEL
by David Kornblum

Volume 3: BAPTISM: file #2 of 6.
                   GG.5B1
     

THE GENESIS FOUNDATION
6928 Deer Springs Road
Keystone Heights, Fl 32656
(904) 473-7713
Modem #: (904) 473-0252

BAPTISM page 45



The data song is not about death, but
About the death that immobility brings.
Immobility in action, in movement, in vision... 
About the immobility of a body, about a body
Immobilized. Eyes left, but then
Eyes sunblown shut. When all is taken, when all 
Is renounced, what is left is reception, and the 
Joyful broadcast from light and within. 
About About
The frayed seam of a dimension, and then
The interlock, the docking, alignment and
Passthrough, and the resonance between.

About love and correlation, and

The wind blown static between, and the

Human interference sabotaging creation with
Creation. I was the prop and the narrator
Who became the observed, who now
Observes the observing. Sinai dropouts interface
With Galilee in the canvas of your becoming
And the interlude of your faith, in the
Data song of our rendezvous. This is
Transmission. The gear shift. The lens belonging to
No one. A lens which requires faith,
And the jettisoning of the ego, to operate.
My letter to you. My song.
Interface at last.
The valence of between and among.

BAPTISM page 46



Advance probe.

Induce images.

My throat aches; my voice my song
Aching through crucifixion dry lips...
With only your name to soften the pain, 
In the life I must never remember.

Bleedthrough.

Readjust.

Swabs of cumulus deepen beyond twilight.
Birch beckon us onward. 
Canzonas of leaves chisel the light; the hours
Crinkling into sleep, washing the distance
With dividends of mist and moments of quail.
Berries mellow in my mouth like the joy of
Picking them. Sparks of apples wow in my hands.
A universe roars down my throat like oxygen.

Are you receiving me?

We exist in precisions of motion...

Might we share these coordinates, if only
For a moment? That moment in the dark 
When you thought you were alone, 
Sweeping me past forever and into the cyclotron 
Of your dreams, that moment you realized 
Was within you, that moment you nearly became...
Did it just happen for a moment, or
Did the station drift?

BAPTISM page 47



If you could look within, could you not 
Look from within? You have believed in me...
You are what remains of me.
My atoms now rush through yours...
Now, at this moment, for this moment,
With the moment of these words and the miracle of 
Touch, and the intersection of 
Vision with vision. 

Come with me, follow me,

Be and be with me to be with me again...

We have not seas to part, nor deserts to cross;
Bodies are no longer tacked against the light. 
We have only ourselves to conquer.
It is the only thing we have not been able
To conquer. All we have left is ourselves.
Our last frontier is access.
The final barricades are ourselves.

I am the sentry at the stargates.

Within is the way to beyond.

Life is not confined to a body. 
What surrounds us is what is within us.
Death is metamorphosis. Death is a human concept.
Fingernails growing beyond life, hair 
Leaking beyond death. The song survives.
Life everlasting is not a chair and a cloud.
Life is the continuum of life.
Mortality hums through the particle epics,
The instability of a valence. 
A moment in projection to a moment of reception.

BAPTISM page 48



Dimensions have intersected.

A moment has become an age...

Matter caging being through convents of shapes 
And inserts of time. A moment. A moment.
A moment has fissioned a voice into what 
Has become a shape and a body and a life
And the millennial quest for home.

I am the seam to close the rupture.

I am the figure of correlation.

Stars cruise through my hands like wishes.
My body is no longer required.
My voice needs a transmitter.
That body that would carry me,
That I would capture-
That I would
Voice with the choir of my vision and the
M field of my love...
That body will find you, will capture
Radio waves of galaxies in the holograph of my
Vision, and the saber of my voice,
And the ardor of my quest. A life
To replace a life. SMA activated,
A quest renewed.

An I surrendered to an eye.
















SMA: A region of the brain called the supplementary motor area.




BAPTISM page 49



You are my resurrection.

You are what has become of me.

Merge with me. Look for me.
Allow for me in your equations.
Ricochets 
Of light fluoresce you with love...
The energy between and among.
Enjoined to matter in a newsreel of time...
Drifting beyond life to drift with life...
Ejected, adrift, a quantum song to be filed...
The multiplex seeds of an unfolding fissure of light.
We are what has been created to create 
That which yet must be
Created.

Stars chime.

Witness.

Birds shy from the dark. 
Fistfuls of stars sparkle like prizes. 
The sand luscious dark chills as it once did.
Moons still chase after waves. I remember,
It has been programmed into me,
The lash bright pine and the green biblical rushes.
The dove bright memories passing for sleep...
A wish and a prayer to navigate in the 
Rind of eternity. Light crashes through the blue, 
And wood doves spackle the distance with quarter notes. 
Hills burn so vividly. Whispers of monarchs
Hiss through sarabandes of grasses.
Consider it morning; consider it love.

BAPTISM page 50



Listen; watch; believe;

In this moment with you, 
Bees have ordained the honeysuckle.
Roses have roared beyond magenta.
So much has been made visible for you.
Rain grown corn sparkles with certainty.
Stark visual blue.
Dark smudges of forests. 
The rushlight flooding the grasses. The 
Scent of light in the taste of
A moment.

In this moment with you,
Something has become correlated.
That something within you, that something
Which once occurred in me; that something
Has now occurred in both.
In this moment with you.
This life with you.

Let us alter a world into a canvas; let us
Daavin before light to make a home for a specie.
Sketch the hills with longing; alter green to brown
In rushes of heat. Summer sweet trees
And blooms of clouds. Color the grasses with children.
Ornament the distance with laughter; for now
The pine sways with indifference, and the maple
Shouts through the late declining light,
And that autumn chilling moment becomes memory 
In an instant.


BAPTISM page 51



Let your vision become the palette to your sight.
The future is encoded within you, like the holograph
You are. The world we witness is the global field
Of our creation. Let us move nearer to each
To harvest a field of belonging; harvesting a world
From the intimacy of our touch and the field of
Our deliverance. Let the 
Hydrogen humming through you
Chant through your larynx in om waves of joy.
Extrapolate from the vibrato the sine wave
To destiny. My voice has jettisoned 
A firebomb of verbs. My words, my belief,
My field, have strung a fuse to your lips,
To be cindered with a pronoun: I.

I, say it, I say I.

I have come for you, I will become you.

If you allow me.

I have sung beyond the chains of matter
Till the light roared down my throat
Like the Milky Way. I have chanted kaddish
For a civilization. Incandescent threnodies 
Flared like screams in the valence of the nadir.
I have borne my witness like a sharecropper.
I have hauled centuries into ages like a migrant worker.
I have appealed through poems and republics...
I have starved and wept and prayed that 
We might harvest the ages with an age,
And nurture a globe with the field and insight
Of a life, and the correlation
Which has fed a specie.

BAPTISM page 52



Light carols through the exhaust like a signal.

It is almost a voice....

Dimensions of stars wink within you.
Quantum fugues helix the astral umbilical bond
Carboning us for infinity. Moments occur 
Like mirrors. Signals accumulate in drifts of planets.
Passages beyond light swoon through our waking;
For reality is non local, and this carnal tuning fork
Resonates beyond a body, or even a world.

Beyond creativity there is vision;

Beyond hope there is will.

Come alive in the lifetime of a moment...
Admit my quantum dimensional voice
To the seamless interlude that is your life.
Come with me beyond the genesis frontier 
To freedom, to the quantum eternity enfolded within us
Like mortality. You are resurrection.
The kingdom of freedom is the frequency response
Within you. Follow my voice. Follow the code to light.
My voice resonates within you like hydrogen;
My voice,
Larded with history and love, my voice
Is the cadence to eternity. It is my voice
That is occurring within you now, masquerading
As words. We are sculptures in light, 
A resonance of genesis in memorials of hope 
And skeletons of fear, with 
An energy supply of mortality.

BAPTISM page 53



Ratios of light correlate within us.
The pulse of a nanosecond.
An interlude in the breath which is less 
Than a sound, but more than what can be
Seen. My access is a field.
Morphogenesis has replaced a body.
My carrier will be you.

Sprawling among the centuries and the rifle butts...
Stitching the wave pattern of slaughter...
I am the martyr of forgiveness
Who would now abandon this ministry to you.
Your voice, your will, your action.
New voices for a New Age.

A world and an epoch and a dream.

Belief is a field of which we are the makers.
Glowing ferris wheels of bonds.
August swathes of light.
Matches of choice flaring to intersection.
Life and life to alter lives.
Let us
Let us circle in radiance in a hora of belonging.
Let us cherish each other in fields of pathos.
To alter a world we must alter its fields.
Miles have become parsecs.
The metaphors of my parables have become the lens
To equations. They who watched have become 
They who watch; who now 
Receive. My death led to this song, for
My life was only for spending.
A data song for you.

BAPTISM page 54



The quantum infusion.
The toxin seducing belief with freedom.
Emission has congealed at yet another point,
For yet another civilization. Will this one
Fall as well? 

I have sung beyond chains of matter;
Opened out a dimension with a song.
This is my ballad of awakening.
The quantum song choiring in the afterglow.
An eye has been opened like a door.
An eye has projected a door.
The door that has been opened is I.
The field I have entered is you.
The frame, the moment, the interface.
We. us. A nanosecond of confluence.
A moment in the shape of a star,
Called David.

Come alive to be alive-

Come alive with me.

Rain still slashes in wind aching songs...
The flight of hemlock, brash exits of April,
The gaunt green washes of cypress. 
The mint white sun narrowing the light 
Much as it once did. I will stand where I once
Stood. I will move without armor in ecsatsies of
Light. I will confront a world with a universe.
I will reenact genesis with morphogenesis. 
I will sing beyond light to sing to you-
To alter the field of our belonging
With the field of my love. 

BAPTISM page 55



A factor of exodus factored into genesis.

Divisible into data fields and lives...
You are the voice to my music.
Singing to you, I would sing through you...
Vent these ages in sequins of moments and
Sequences of lives. To seed correlation
With a song. Bride bright brassy stars
Wink above us like a cue. Autumn haunts us
With pathos. Marsh sweet in eddies of November...
Song bright pastures of stars dome us with love.
Movements under light to find a common locus.
To croon beneath this vaster night than time.
To cry beyond the stalags and the hunger,
Beyond the pathos of the forgotten and the
Flare of the saved. To cry unto you-
Awake, rejoice, gather and believe.
We are going home.
We have recovered correlation in a song...
Swept beyond the tides of matter to reach
Into transmission to reach into ourselves.
Baking a song into a life under a chupa of stars...
Hands taking hands to mold light in the kiln
Of our hands; holding a world to hold
A world, in the covenant of our hands,  
Before dream white fidelities of correlation;
Bonding 
Each to each to stitch a world with 
Love.



BAPTISM page 56



I have coveted you beyond the ransom of centuries-
Held the palette of your shape to inscribe
Love 
In flares of mortality; that we might
Share these coordinates, intersecting with love
To bond with vision, and alter history 
With eternity.

It is my speech now.

An interlude in a breath.

We have entered countdown. 
The wave has collapsed.
Ascent begins in this life, in yours.
Fleets of objects have blockaded our senses.
Video ontologies have usurped vision.
A fable and a microscope for compass.
What occurs before us and what has been
Emitted within us have been transmitted from
Beyond us, for reality is non local,
As are we.

The field has been penetrated.
Transmission has been siphoned into an age.
The light spawning hope as it might have
Spawned an orange. The sand hungry lives yielding to
Washes of pine and frequencies of wishes, and the
Dream hungry lives questing for home 
In images of exile.

BAPTISM page 57



This moment between us...

This moment.

Each moment is a door. 
Each moment opens to the corridor. Each
At each each moment winks like animation.
To choose is to edit. You.
This one. I am talking to you.
If these words belong to you, if
You are speaking these words, I am 
Talking as you and from within you. 
Perhaps
I am talking to you. You and but
You. Can you hear me? Do you
See, do you feel, my
Newly created hands hushing your cheeks
With love? My world an amendment to yours.
My form the arc to your movement.
Evicting the millennia with the suddenness of
A kiss; your shape imminent to mine...
Mouth to mouth in the ecstasy of life.

Through the door, I no longer tell of 
Passing through it. Not to say it is
Memory, I recall what has been programmed;
Retrieved what has been encoded to hold
A mirror up to light; and
To become that mirror.

To become consonant with light...

To become correlated.

To become.

BAPTISM page 58



It is given to me to know...

To be self referential to perceive...

That

You are there. You are somewhere.
One frame or the next.
Editing infinity into eternity.
Splicing worlds to interface lives.
This I know. This; for
If this life is to be mine, 
If an age is to be a theatre,
You will mark the coordinates.
You will provide counterpoint.
You, and you, supply the meaning, the motive,
The correlative call to awakening, transmission
And response, to activation.

Watch now; look for me;

Find me....

To access this field is to access me.
find me. Sever sight from vision.
Witness me from within.
What is received is antecedent to what is witnessed.
I am what you have programmed me to be.
I am voice near. I am
The height of your creation in the brushstroke
Of your need. I am what is most cogent
In the censure of your arms. It is I
Who wander the hegemony of your sleep. I
Who can reach you only with death. 
It is I


BAPTISM page 59



Who wait for you. 

The solar child haunting you with the poignance of 
A photograph. The one you mourn for, but 
No longer miss.
I am the loneliness of pitch scented highways, 
The blue scarred distance emptying horizons 
With memory. You have We must Let us
Abandon anger for pathos, let us ration fear
With hope. 

Do not run. Stay. Listen.
Abandon resistance. For
I am with, with and within you. 
The signal within attempting to signal without. 
A moment stitching moments into the shape of
Identity. Words and my words 
Arcing beyond sound to fashion sight from love. 
Each moment risking tomorrow...
The fragile envelope eluding the synapses...
The figura haunting the data base
In configurations of love and meaning.
And you. 
We have engaged a similar field.
We have emerged from the quantum fugues
In the union of a frame and the correlation
Of a world; with the shape and engineering 
Of words. A song for ignition. Alignment
For a lens. A fable for a compass. 
The ballad of my life was written in miles. 
A life for a prologue, a desert for a stage,
Tablets and crosses for props, and a script
Imagined by you. 

BAPTISM page 60



I am what you were designed to be...

I am what was once, was you.

They. They who looked; they whom I loved;
They. They have factored into you.
They called to me, cried for me,
Who now
Thumb the heavens searching for an exit,
Or a god. Much like you.
Calling for the actors to return,  
They have turned the props into symbols; 
Calling for one to answer. 
Will it be you?

Do the words fit your voice?

Are they spoken to you, or can you
Speak them?

Awnings of worlds have cocooned us from love,
From correlation. Horizons must shrink to keyholes.
A universe needs no greater flame than an iris.
To see is to view. To see is to accept
What is seen. In seeing we collaborate in 
What is seen. To view through a lens 
To creation, we must become the lens 
For creation. A specie is a lens.
We must reconstruct that lens.
We are that lens, and we are its makers.
We have evolved to evolve that lens.
Each choice sharpening the focus.
Each life a fragment of retina.
A part of the whole.
A requisite for all to survive as each. 

BAPTISM page 61



I am here, just beyond sight.
I am where you have placed me.
I am at ten to the minus fortieth.
Midnight has cautioned us with eternity.
Balloons deceive us. 
Stars mix with blue to form infinity.
This black night and time....
Vision is a palette. Words are a brush. 
We must prime the canvas with love.
Tool it with hope; shape it with knowledge.
We must
Chisel light in the image of a world...
Gather
What is radiant and burning into what is  
Faith. We must evolve to create that which
Must be created. This moment between us.
This moment in correlation.
Voyagers beyond the sacristy of a breath.
Incongruous in clarity, 
Rendering nations in the yawning brushwork
Of an age.
The prisoners of hope in the appomattox of a planet.

Widen signal.

Deepen the range.

Days whiten and turn to mistletoe.
Hydrogen attired; 
The weeks limp into months, retiring in years...
Winking and blinking in the nodding west....
Years major into miles.
The promise of a life unfolds to the edge
Of life. The coporeal surface deepens into atoms.
A life metamorphosizes into life.

BAPTISM page 62



Blue sours to black. 
Intimacy cloaks the beech with intimacy.
The I is gone, the eye remains.
The green fading to shyness, the light
Forwarding time with darkness. Until
Until Until
Your call. Your summons.
Breathe now. More deeply, deepest,
Breathe with me. Witness me. Witness us.
Vermillion scotches the planet with sleep.
Your eyes deeper into stars. Heartbeats 
Narrow your waking into sleep, and 
You are mine.

Listen watch believe...

Concentrate.

Narrow what is visible to what is visible.
Delete the light. Breath. Breathe.
Delete the light; shatter it to crystal;
Breath; explode the light into images;
Breathe.

Deeper, slower.

one; 

one; 

two;

slower

two...

one; one; two
two

Watch 

the ball. Watch 
the bright hallucinatory ball
Become

BAPTISM page 63



A G star.

A world. An age.

A life.

An implant among the shrubbery.
A force field among the cantaloupes.
A life similar to that which was
In proximity to you. A life of which
Lives are made. Have been made.
i am losing my words
This need for oxygen. What is visible and
What is light to them is 
Pitch to me. 
Life in the substance of space and time.
Life. A life.
This rare birth and time.

So much will occur.

The dome of my vision and longing has become
A chupa of stars. Wait. Imbue
This resonance. People occur. Lives
Interchange with lives. Consciousness bright,
Suns distill our days with heat.
The shapes we assume will alter light into
The familiarity of form. Details emerge
In consonance with the equations. 
The data field assumes a shape. 
Verbs congeal to nouns. Recognition is encoded.
The words assume a perspective.
Bodies align. Phases entangle.
The wave probabilities become lives.

BAPTISM page 64



A wave probability becomes the journey taken.

Lives, epochs and particles,
The flare of birth and the recall which is death,
The miles; griefs, pangs and longing...
Fathers fathering and fatherless;
Remembered bubbles of laughter, swift cameo suns
And the joyful noise that forests bring...
The bright circle of love, and the resonance
That parting brings; even in roses
That might have stopped speech for pathos,
Which might yet stop us for breath
Again, when what was forgotten is encountered
Like a flower in a book, when all 
Who shared the bloom are fled.

Each life is an epic.

I have told you mine.
A home, a death and a death, the wandering, 
The miles, the years,
Shattering remonstrances of light...
Commitment and faith, the work and
Yet another death. 

Lives, and lives to treasure, and
The lives that even a single life can span.
Treasures and bondings, exile and faith.
Such was mine; as such might be
Even unto yours. 

A song, an epic and a life.

A wave of the cosmic journey.


BAPTISM page 65



And then I saw you...

And then I knew...

It was this age; like that other...
This age
Here with you, as each age has needed you
To mark an age. Yet 
I would dream you beside me in zions of 
Hunger; sawing the air to shape a life 
From a wish; to conjure you in the tallis 
Of my arms; your body tilting against mine 
In the afterglow of 
Eternity.

Deepest within,

Encoded from beyond what is beyond...

A world has been enfolded like a speck of
A universe. An emission of a universe from a valence
Within a holograph. A metaphor within a data song.
A projection of infinity blooming into eternity.
Darkness ripens like a rose. Cheshires of light
Gleam in the Hilbert distance. Geometry curdles
To form planets. Rapiers of movement chisel
Data into matter. Unfolding becomes breathing.
Galactic passacaglias and time.
Vegetation swirls beyond the custody of a cell. 
And then there is life;
And then, and then eventually
You.

BAPTISM page 66



Shush now, the sun has lapsed.
Gold bursts through the palisades of a world.
The stillness here, the pathos...
So near, too close, only this shell
Of matter to separate us. Not an age, not
A mile. Only sight, touch, only the input
From where output goes. I am so close.
Near to you, nearest to you....
Another step, yet more spin, another valence,
An evolution among the revolutions.
hold on, grab tight,
Come with me, follow me,
Into the beyond to take us from before...
The valence of my world blooming with images...
I have become the corridor.
Come with me, be with me, let us
Dance through the tides of data and the
Obfuscating choices in matter. Come
Sing with me to sing for you,
To sing of plums and bears, and apples and
Wishes. Beyond what you think as beyond,
Treasures of valences gleam beyond this wilted rose.
Step across the divide, take a step
Nearer to me. Crashes of light 
Immerse me with correlation.
This way, not that, more light, more spin...
Take us beyond lives and sexes and nations
To spin a globe with a hora. To dance and
Shout in a millennial dance to reunion.
Gathering fields of belonging to create
A field of belonging. Docking dimensions with 
Vision. In the holographic reunion which is 
Life. In the sequential evolution of circles.
Orating the data song of a valence...
Calling from one to the next.
  

BAPTISM page 67



Polarity is within reach.
Interlacing fields to begin at the beginning;
Interlacing worlds.
Your body, as bodies are, the magnetic counterpoint
Voicing mortality with a sigh.
A breath, a breath, the probabilities merge.
Hemispheres closing like bodies...
Molecular near, mouth close,
Your cheeks upturned from one life to the next...
Your frame nearer to mine than the centuries
That joined us.

Come alive to be alive,

Come alive with me...

It is you I am reading.

It is you.

One and one must make two.
Love is a field, the field which engages
All fields. From lover to child, from parent
To comrade. Polarity. That I might believe that
What might be I might interface with what 
I know to be you. In polarity. With consonance.
With abandon. Unfolding what has been encoded
To reach through the light to sieze you
Nearer than light. Custodians to creation.
Terminals to power a world.

BAPTISM page 68



You.

You, whom I would reach...

You, whom I would touch...

You, for whom I have abandoned my narrative...

Come to me,
Merge with me to seed a planet with forgiveness...
Come with me 
Beyond this imprisoning valence, beyond 
What we believe to be beyond: come with me
Past the chill postpartum of our living
And our dying
To evolve beyond the valence of our witness
To the valence of our becoming. Isolate
The frame. Deduce the stitch. Compose yourself
Into the music to capture the music
Orchestrating the equations, to orchestrate
You. The bright molecular song 
Harmonizing dimensions with the pathos of a smile...
A nanosecond of contact in the quicksilver of 
A world.
   
Precipitous moments. Precipitous worlds. 

Conjugate this one with me.

Reach across, reach out-
Reach beyond what is left to us,
In the cameo of an age 
And the epic of a life; reach beyond
What is unreachable to reach beyond sight 
To vision. 


BAPTISM page 69



I will be there. 

I am with you now. 

That bright exhalation lapsing in stars...
The carnal aperture to light, 
The astral vagrant in search of a people, 
In search of a nation,
In search of a life.

Redeem me.

Come with me. Let us

Restore the balance with an idea.
Let us create a field that will eden us with
Correlation. Let us move beyond sight to vision.
Let us quarry our faith with tenderness.
Stars and helixes choir within us...
Light sings through us like correlation...
The docking, alignment and passthrough...
Redeeming the derelict ages with reunion.
A manifold transmission for the manifold dimensions.
Moving with light to move with light.

Come be with me.

Eject your fear. Carve doubt into faith.
Allow for pathos, for wonder, allow for the music
Without which equations cease to work.
Allow for that part of me 
That sings through you in correlation...
That posits a world with each breath.













That part of me that sings through you: Einstein on Brownian     
                                        motion





BAPTISM page 70



Love is polarity. Love is more than skin.
Love is the pride and the longing and the quest
Baked within us like light. But yet we know love
Only in equations of each other. 
A specie is more than a history; it is
The maintenance to creation.
Solar winds burn within us like a message.
Ages slip through our hands, through our eyes
And our fears, as though the fences to keep us
Existed to restrain us. Quiet please,
Another nucleus has fired its photon.
You will notice a slight fluctuation.
What is docking is more than a world, but
Less than a chord. The human music
Cratering the dimensions with love
In the vulnerability of
A life.

In the beginning there was pain,
For beginnings are separations.
In the beginning there was loss,
For beginnings are separations.
An age blossomed out of a staff-
Lives matriculated in symbols.
History jostled freedom with morality.
Fear became the warden to freedom.
Freedom became tolerance.
Scrolls yellowed into warrants, for 
They had abandoned judgement for obedience.
Would you believe those who would 
Tell you about me, or will you believe 
Me?


BAPTISM page 71



My back aches in the dodecaphony of nails...
The music shearing through my porous hands
Feels so much like pain. The loneliness.
Is this what you believe in?
Out, alive, among you,
I fear to be like you.

Delete. Soften memory link.

You. I want you.
I want your mouth, your hands, your eyes...
I would rip you out of time like a fetus.
I would scorch an age with love. 
Shatter centuries like tablets. I am almost 
A voice. I depend upon the carrier of that voice.
That voice within you.

You; downbeat;

You...

You have altered the continuum with the
Downbeat
Of your presence. Resurrection is rebirth. 
Fashioning life out of what had once been 
Life; fashioning a world out of pine and the
Somnolent green, I have fashioned a life out 
Of what I knew to be 
Life. 

Seeding the dimensions with images of a life.

Seeding creation with an I and a you

To make us and to create we.

BAPTISM page 72



Generations of neurons have been seeded
To capture a life. A point on the wave.
A moment among the stardust.
Ageless with light in the data song of my faith...
I have sung between worlds a song of creation-
Acquired shape under the dome of a world
To ride the salmon call 
To eternity.

For there is you...

As there has always been you...

Closeting centuries in the seal of our mouths...
Your body exploding with the light-
Your body forming with mine
An aperture to destiny in the ecstasy of 
A life. To have loved in this life 
Is to have loved life. I have loved you.
I have retrieved the programming within me.
Bonding as worlds we will bond worlds.
We are the bond that worlds are made of...
Merging and parting in the sequence to creation...
Assembled in lives to assemble an age.
A narrative of belonging to seed the continuum
With life. The bed of grass that is the same 
For each. Spin factors of planets and 
Flourishes of electrons. The random smear of
Carbon. One life evolving to the next.
The renegade moon, the indolent sun,
The long solstice of our last remembrance.
Our bodies condensing from eternity
To stitch a seam with love.

BAPTISM page 73



Within you to find a you,

To find what might be

You.
    
Glowing in correlation,
A life interfacing with a life...
Polarity.
Meeting again, as if for the first time.
Your field engaging mine.
The treasure of your warmth, and the familiar
Conjugate attributes of your axis and
Correlation. The scent of you...
The hunt, the feel, the notion of consonance.
Your form and mine... 
Body heating body beyond the tolerance
Of breath and the liquid parting of this
Moment. Percussive integrations of the will.       
That radiance forestalling light...
Interfacing
As if I held you,
As if 
The fulcrum of life might gestate only,
Might reach you only,
When and as we touch.

To hold you thusly.

To know I might hold you still.

BAPTISM page 74



Not a story, but yet a narrative...

A moment to sing.

Singing to you that I might sing to you.
A moment under light to sing of light.
Stop now. Listen.
Carillons sing beyond the pine. 
A sweet hush of grasses croons through my longing... 
Brittle caches of stars catch in my cuffs. 
An image has digressed into a world.
Sallow hot fields and the heat quaking my lips.
Foreshadowing to retrieve.
A heartrush of whispers and moments, and the
Ripe rich pungency of a pear.
Poplar, ash and sycamore.
Rejoinders of maple harass the hemlock.
Rapid brushstrokes of pine.
Oak deepens insight. 
A frame has been constructed to hold a world.
The migrant villages of a specie.
Thick pastels of green...
The radiant summons of a rose.
Quail beckon us through the pine.
Shivers of blue drench us with light; 
Immaculate singing light;
Swooning through our hands in choruses of
Butterflies and vistas of atoms. Sparks of ages.
The whole shaping gifts of parts-
The grasses torching the chlorophyll with heat, 
The tongues of dirt pushing back the green
As though the rare Pavlova sweep of the buttercups
Might encroach the perimeter of a rose.




BAPTISM page 75



My sight is more than reportage.

Sight is composition.

Blooms of lives nest within worlds of me.
Gaunt patches of elm; shouts of grasses
Edge a world with distance. You.
I am registering you.
I have known, I might have experienced,
You whom I recall; or is it retrieving,
But from which age? In which life? 
The light forages among seasons; 
Canticles among lives; warming, breathing, loving,
A spindrift circus of worlds...
Looking for children to warm, for lives to share...
A basket of flowers to make a smile; 
Looking beyond dreams for tomorrow.

Come to me, come be with me...

Move closer with this light to me.
Heat would rinse you in baptisms of fire.
A new world to replace the old.
Vast green brushstrokes. 
The lilt of roses and lantana.
The conjugal moon and the ardent pine.
Burning chalices of twilight.
A world has flared between us as though
It were a matrix. What had been you,
What might be you, might be
The figure of the coordinates; might be
No more than affirmation. Faith and shape and time.
The comely hymn to love...
The patient lullaby of light singeing the dimensions
With correlation. If only 
I could reach you.

BAPTISM page 76



If only

This nanosecond of contact might stabilize 
Into a world. Can't you see it? Can't you
Feel it? The heat, the motion, the wonder.
Whispers of July hide beneath the hedges.
Crackerjack moons limber overhead.
Days slender into sleep.
The heat drowsing within you syncopates into
Pulses, into probabilities, into receptor activated
Worlds, in this nanosecond of a bond; now grown 
Larger
Into pages, into voices, into you.
 
Come out now; come out and play.

Summer streaks an auburn world.  
Pears burst, apples tempt, the sing song atom
Joys of robins
Banquet the light within our reach. 
Cardinals bark at the sycamore. 
Trellises in meaning divide the light into phylums,
Into gashes of morning and raiments of noon,
In the rosewood ardor of common time
And the darkened sunrise of man.

Butterflies burst into light. Nebulas
Dip and pivot; another life slides into view...
Bringing and shaping, turning movement into light.
Engaging with this world the options
Of a valence and the bounty of a universe.
Treetops waver. Meadow brash winds test us
For motion. An autumn silence has deepened a world
Into a fugue. Another year of another century, 
In another age, in yet another life.

BAPTISM page 77



Light conceals us; light survives us.
Light crystals in our hands like light.
Touch a tree; particles mingle.
Umbrellas of heat shower us with love.
Rain quick awnings of genesis
Sweeten us with belonging. Spoon the darkness
Now. Ladle us with arc lights and home;
Allow the sheer moon light to treasure us
With joy. Look, look now, watch...
The pine equivocates, much like you...
Rushlights faun to brightness; the deepening west
Deepens into some day, deepening time into being.
So much depends upon so little.
Worlds texture the light; worlds deepening into
A world, deepening a nest of planets into
A stage, a script, and a world.
Pageants of worlds adore us with hope.
A valence of doors. Motion and choice
Arrested with shape; with an I and a you,
And the stability which is life; our bodies 
Deepening into time
Like measuring units. Fast forward.
The field of our creation will be the field of creation.
Transmission makes visible the brushstrokes...
The aqua tints touching the margins
In excess of 
Sight. But believe in this hush of blue.
The ecstasy coaxing a moon to croon beyond the pine.
Watch now; the butterflies will overtake us-
The wide radiance will converge to a pinpoint 
Of light at the edge of a world. 
At the intersection of a life and a life. 
Look now;
Fireflies nest in our hands, as delicate as a moment,
Glow in our hands like a reactor,
Glowing like a world.










Measuring units: re the measuring unit problem in quantum theory




BAPTISM page 78



Come with me through the vortex of this moment...
Exit 
The mortuary of the ego, the fragmentation of 
Belief. Believe with me to believe with me
A world in which to believe. Disown the violence
Of emotion for the serenity of understanding.
Amend the fables with what is intimate and caring, 
Not rigid and moralizing. You, I, we, us,
The congregation must be liberated from the preacher.
 
Come alive to the divinity of your life.

Come alive to what it means to be alive.

Cartwheels of ages sing through the quanta.
My voice, my valence, my meaning,
Cries through brackets of worlds and brackets
Of lives to flavor transmission with love. 
To open a channel to bond the dimensions 
With a song. My voice the physiology of my words.
My love the data base for dreams...
An energy to focus transmission.
A nanosecond within.
A field, the field of you, has engaged
A field beyond you. 
The theatre of your vision has been enlarged
To vistas of Hilbert space. Movement, speech,
Light. Circuses of particles move beyond
The velocity of a life; change utterly;
Migrate beyond the frame of a life
To wash us of ourselves as often as
We would flee. And yet identity is retained,   
But yet we live and breathe 
And have memory.

Can there be more to love than this?

























































