DELETE THIS PAGE FROM PRINTOUT



THE GENESIS GOSPEL
by David Kornblum

Volume 3: BAPTISM: file #3 of 6.
                   GG.5B2
     

THE GENESIS FOUNDATION
6928 Deer Springs Road
Keystone Heights, Fl 32656
(904) 473-7713
Modem #: (904) 473-0252

BAPTISM page 79



Fireballs of atoms explode into light-
Emigrate through the valence of bodies 
In star destinies of loneliness and time and
Meaning. And you. I would, I might have, I must have,
Sung through the portal of a world- 
Singing of a world to sing of worlds... 
To call back time in the c square reunion, 
In the genesis cantabile to awakening. 

If I could remember what and to whom 
If I could remember the way to say it
If I could

I need more than words to reach you now.
I need a frequency. 
Life is not a structure; it is a field.
Mortality is an energy supply.
The scope of a life is the force field of its hope.
Hunger, defeat, the barbarism of loss,
Are not walls, but portals to entry;
But canvases for choice, but the freedom and the compulsion
To transcend what can be described as pain
To what cannot be described.

Bereft of a body,

I am the transmission within.
I am what has been sustained to sustain
That formula which must be sustained; for
We must evolve to become what must evolve.
We are the attempt at communication.
Threads make a stitch to make cloth.
Modulate to genesis. 
Become what you were designed to become...
Accept and become correlated with each 
And for all, for union, for readmittance.

BAPTISM page 80



We are going home.

We are the stitch savoring creation with love.

Liberated from a body to liberate you
From bodies, I am the dimensional variable
From the dimension within. Come to me.
Come with me beyond the watchtowers of polity
And the oppression of custom, to come with me
Through epics of consciousness and the aperture 
Hyphen exit
From the prison of a world, to build a world
From a dream of a world.

Swan sweet songs of plums and melodies of grain...

Each moment is a door...
 
Each breath the witness to life.

Blue gates of blue. The spherical harmonic
Glossing the continuum with the poignance of
The living and the data base of the dying,
And the evolutionary tropes of consciousness.
Each life has a data song. This is mine.
In access shall we find the fulfillment of the wave...
One moment to the next, from one life
To the next, till the moments stitch us
In correlation, in the miracle of consciousness,
In the capacity of a moment to share a life
With lives. And so to guide us,
As the encoded guides the unfolding,
Guiding us with light and that guiding light
Beyond; to nurture and harvest us, to teach us  
To give ourselves permission to give permission.



BAPTISM page 81



Seminaries of tenderness linger with the light...
Fathoms of light plunging us into silence...
Until voices and stars bake us with love,
Until the moment and the age dock within us
To form us. To engage one field and the next...
Stitching life to life until the lives correlate;
For reality is non local, as are we, and
The meaning is not in the animation... 
The meaning is in the frame.

You. I am talking to you.

There is more. There is so much yet
To be discovered. There is so much
I want to share with you; if only
There is time. If only I might be given
Time. But time is human time.
Activated from within, recalled to what is within, 
An age is encoded within us. 
We are the image of what we believe ourselves 
To be the image of. 
We fear what fears. We have only ourselves 
To fear. Let us
Let us withdraw into a circle of arms
And cushion the light with love. Allow me
To survive beyond the age that spawned me...
Choiring light in the cupula of my hands...
Allow me reach to you...
That I might move within faith to catch
Sorrow with love; to carve a world from tenderness, 
Carving hope from fear with patience. Allow for us
What has been allowed for us. Amend our reach 
With each other, and with you, and love, and singe
Indifferent humanity with the stark solar intensity
Of your presence, and the rapier dedication
Of your will.

BAPTISM page 82



That that will be done, and become mine.

That this cosmic blue might shear between us
And lace us with hope to join a sigh. The
Stalk bright light fencing us with radiance...
Reaching into the light to find a compass for light.
Deepening in silence to deepen with stillness...
Past melding with future, procreating a world
Through the fissure of consciousness...
Reaching 
Through apogees of belief to view you whole....
The promised reprise haunting the dimensions with
Genesis,

With us.

A moment into light, a moment beyond the barrier.

Radii coalesce into shape. Movement declares meaning.
Value determines intimacy. The brightness suffused with
Trash. The time hungry faces. Rapidly oscillating M fields
Of violence. It is so cold. The glare so sudden.
Movement fracturing into movement; the beats so loud
They dwarf the noise, the faces, the moment.
Moment A moment and a moment, position, and the
Measurement between. This must be cause and effect.
So slow, so local, it must be
Corporeal.

So much to fear, but so much to share...

So much to hold, but so little that matters.

BAPTISM page 83



With and within you...

Breath warm, breath near...

Your arms rejoicing in mine...

Breath conjugating breath in the rapture
Of reunion. Holding you, as I might have 
Held you; your frame immanent to mine; your body
Soul deep within me. Knees skyward to genesis-
My pulse escaping your lips like a shout...
Bodies pulsing like a star...
Our bodies the correlation of prophecy 
In the elision of 
Memory.

I am programmed to need.
I have been programmed for polarity.
The energy between stokes emotion into
Emotions. Choice amends retrieval. 
A moment through the door.
A moment into destiny.
Retaining less now, how much will I
Retain?

Not retention, but the circuit opened.

What is viewing is vastly more important
Than what is viewed. Meaning is in the lens
Through which we view meaning. Alter
The way you see and you alter what you see,
Which will alter what you are.

BAPTISM page 84



Emotions are mirrors.
Viewing within emotion is to view only
What emotion generates. The lens, which is
Being, has factored into lenses, been diluted
To the stability we call personality, which 
Destabilizes. Reception is the act of receiving.
In receiving we acknowledge, even if we cannot
Acknowledge. We acknowledge history, but
Not ours. We acknowledge encounter, but
Not ours. We mourn a teacher of righteousness,
But pursue the life he rejected. We know
Messiah will come, but not to us.

There is more to us than we.

A we requires an us.

As one might need one to make
What is no longer one.
We are what we permit ourselves to have.
Faith requires power.
Faith requires the circuitry of love.
To give love one must have love.
To give is to share.
To move beyond faith to divinity.
Love is the seed to correlation.
Only life can experience love, for
Life can only survive with love.
Love is not a reward; it is a requirement.
You are loved. You have been correlated.
Turn back to us. Look at us.
Become one of us. Become correlated.
Become a genesis warrior.
Become what you were designed to be.
What you can behold you can become. If
You would look for a hero, 
Look in a mirror.

BAPTISM page 85



I have loved. I have been loved.
You have created a figura for love
Whom you say never loved.
Love is built into the system. Would
You deny it to me? Would you deny it?
Would abba deny the children?
To love is to become radiant.
Love is endemic to creation.
Surely, it is you who deserves love.
I, you, even you.
Love, the acceptance of love, is the staple
Of my loving. I loved once;
My loving shall be renewed. My life
Shall be renewed in love of life.
As I had once loved in life.

Us. We.

The predicate of the coordinates.

The observers and observed.

I have reentered.
I have come looking for help to bind a seam.
Will you help me?
There is more to what frames us than sight.
There is more to me, as well as
You, than the bracket of our life and
The bracket of a world, this world.
Reality is non local, as is
The correlation stitching us in quantum fugues
Of memory and desire. Beyond us is what is
Beyond us.

BAPTISM page 86



Drums thicken the darkness.
Or are they heartbeats?
The downbeat has been given. The corridor 
Has been shut behind me. The door without
Has opened to the door within. Carried 
Within each of you, I would capture
One of you.

Delivered
From what I cannot remember into what has been
Delivered;
Delivered
Beyond what we believed to be beyond...
Delivered into that which yet must be
Delivered.

I have achieved resurrection only in you.
Only in the precision of this moment.
A fissure between the valences.
The bleedthrough to energize a field.
An age in search of a body.
An astral transmission in search of a voice.
I am the past. You are the future.
The carrier who would correlate with light.
I have destabilized.
I have destabilized into you.
Semen bright in the wailing wall of tomorrow-
I am the matrix coordinating belief...
The pod lost in galaxies of history, in gulags
Flavoring eternity with ashes. It is you
Who must fulfill the prophecies now. You
Who must
Enact the fissionable theatre of bifurcation;
You: it is you who will who must accept
This ministry, for a planet and a valence
And the lives appending creation.

BAPTISM page 87



It is time. It is almost too late. 

Destabilization has begun.

Rain black cities season us with acid.
Shrieks of missiles mourn through the ozone.
Hunger has replaced tenderness in the countdown
To ignition. And where are you?
Where have you been? What will you do?
Each night I call you; a moment, an hour...
Each night
Stitching moments, whispering through the synapses...
Calling through the centuries, till the call 
Became the song and I awakened within you
To awaken you; to liberate you
From the sleepy solstice of time, 
From the barefoot kingdom sheltering prophecy 
With memory.

Can you hear me?

Would you?

I am more dangerous than a mirror.
I am the data field that was Joshua...
Yeshu...
Encoded like a song, but ejected like the truth.
A movement among transmission.
I am Joshua alias Jesus who would be Adam...
Who has become lost within you.
Admit me. 
I have only a song to give for life.
I have only what is left of life
To narrow the song into a singer.

BAPTISM page 88



Come with me, at long last, come with me...

Come alive to the song you are the dream of...
Share 
With me this quantum eternal quest 
To seed eternity with pods of mortality. 
An assembly has come alive within an assembly. 
Come in under the intimacy of this light. 
Correlated systems are always correlated...
Home is the light pattern we can live within.
Come alive to the divinity of your life.
Renounce
The alchemy of liturgy for the code to infinity.
Renounce
Your idols, your rituals, the obedience conditioned into
Belief. Come back to god. Come home.
Come with me; come back to me...
Come home.

Lives winter in my light porous hands...

Waiting for you....

I have endured the carnal abacus of history...
I have walked cloth white through stockades
Of centuries. Justice sings in my veins
Like heroin. I am Judea's final sacrifice.
The first of the Christian nuclear millennia.
A moment among moments spooling the moments like
A fuse...

To ignite you.














Judea-sacrifice; Jesus and the later Nazoreans were the dominant
                 influence in ending the practice of sacrifice in
                 the temples.





BAPTISM page 89



Ages carol in the darkness.
What has been encoded has been encoded in you.
A planet, a fissure, a flower.
What has been encoded is not a choice, but 
Choices. Carafes of light rinse us with awe.
Sighs of leaves willow through the pine...
The light cherishing the colors in rhythms of yellows
And arias of green, and the late sweet songs 
Of mockingbirds, and the drifting shadows ladling
Darkness into sleep. 

Frames speed to moments.
Moments into years, into lives, into
Us. Insights. Passions. Yearning.
Moments flaring into moments,
A continuum contracting to a world.
That moment stitched deeper than sleep...
Centuries and lives destabilizing into bytes,
Or is it atoms? like saline. What is left,
What can no longer be unfolded, has become
Enfolded in you.

Not the heat, nor the miles, but the
Three penny nails and the hammer to destiny...
What remains is what I cannot erase.
Retrieving memory to remodel prophecy,
What has been programmed has been algorhythmic
To what must be programmed. The pieces
Reshuffled. Reconstituted. Received. 
Renewed. Reused.
Reborn.

BAPTISM page 90



I have 
Probed through stars with a pint of blood
And a brucha, searching for god. Through
Long moon nights and the hungry miles...
Searching, evolving, enlarging to an assembly,
And into a life, to mend forgotten worlds, 
And forgotten lives, to mend holiness with
Tenderness. 

I have survived in transmission who must survive 
To reception. I have survived encounter.
I have survived my bonding with you.
I have moved beyond faith to commitment.
Worlds shatter in my larynx, that I might subdue
Belief with love. That I might renew contact
With you.

Come alive to be alive...

Come alive in this quantum song of correlation....

Come dance with me 
Through stellar mortgages of time, 
Through the burden and humility of a life...
Dancing through horas of worlds and the pale 
White of planets, and the sugar plums
Masquerading as stars. We get what we need,
Which is not necessarily what we want.
Angst ridden ages have delivered us to fear.
Beyond this age lies the next, which
You will also inhabit. Shall we will ourselves
Rubble, shall we bequeath hunger, shall we
Endow asphyxiation? 
A poem is a lens. A theorem is a lens. 
Renewal begins with witness. 
An act of human will.



BAPTISM page 91



To be is to witness.

To evolve we must become evolved.

My voice will evolve yours.
My signal will engender yours.
What was once a world might tame 
What has become a world. Baggy pants ontologies
Dome our theorems with myth. History has become 
Entropy. Life has become inexplicable as life. 
For each life, this life, our life, 
Is but a wave in the wave packet of lives.
Beyond life is the continuum of life.

Come now,

More spin, more height, 

Dance with me....

Light fluoresces us; 
The dreaming wonder of my hands caught in the radiance....
Music gestures between us like wind.
The light, the light voicing transmission with the 
Suddenness of breath; light confiding worlds like wishes,
Amending a universe with a song. Look now, listen,
Crisp quick gusts of blue hiss like autumn.
Blue bright scripts of bonnie days...
The scent, the taste, the wonder; the light
Capturing the valence with winsome blue 
And sometime greens, and the gold gash of sunsets,
And the patient rose. Cricket silver evenings. Joy 
Sparks like human will; like the children we were,
The children we are; like the child 
Whooshing through your hands like impatience, 
In the warm incubator of a universe. 

BAPTISM page 92



You have engaged me, you have recalled me....

Through bread worn centuries and the conjugal light,
I have waited for you. I have believed in you. 
My death song has become my data field.
I have no portrait now.
My songs are emissions.
I exist in the requiem of DNA. 
My will an appendage to yours.
I have migrated beyond a body to seed
Bodies. I have altered the continuum with
The continuum of my song and the passage
Of my atomic theatre to you. I have
Endured beyond the statistical anomalies of
One life and the next...
Through star pools of worlds and quantum casks
Of life; through the cages of bodies and the continuum
Of minds, and the channel that has now
Opened contact.

I have been crucified, gassed.
They have cut me down burnt me down brought me down
I have had my life stolen like a watch;
My voice, my vision, my words, my 
Transmission,
Romanized to steal a nation from a tribe,
A world from a man. What has survived 
Has survived to hollow the air
With the dexterity of a shape and the precision
Of a moment. Is it you? Is it within you?
Has the particle concert attained fluency
In you? 

BAPTISM page 93



You are the carnal music.
The Brownian helix of a canon braid of infinity. 
You are the miracle beyond that which
You ride in or the box with which
You cage yourself. Our particles endlessly alter,
Physically alter, but yet we stay 
Physically what we surmise ourselves to be.
That which is constant is transmission.
You are a component of that transmission.
You are what light you can retrieve.
You are what you permit your eyes
To see. It is you 
Who must speak in my name,
You 
Who must liberate me from those 
Who would be liberated 
By me. It is time.
It is that moment.
It is that life in that age when
A voice will expand a world; expanding a world 
To a valence to preserve the valence, to  
Harvest an age in the fugue of minds,
And hammer eternity to the church door like
An eviction notice.

This is contact. This is notice.
History is entropy.
The M field of our violence has altered a specie
To entropy. We are correlated systems.
Each affects all. The whole factors to us.
The fields of our making constitute the world 
Of our creation. The continuo scoring the continuum. 
The we that makes an I.

BAPTISM page 94



Ages have crept from our bodies, belief from our eyes,
A weltanschauung from what could be touched. 
We have ridden through centuries as though we were
As rigid and bordered as a photograph. Self 
Enclosed, self 
Isolated, concealing between the frames of a life
The photographer, the lens and the camera.

Deepen your eyes inward.

Encounter the freefall within.

The holomovement hissing beyond light to time.

Deeper within which you believe to be
Deepest, deeper beyond speech, beyond 
What you believe to be I,
What has generated this...
What has generated me has generated a response
In you. find me.
Alter your breathing to the rhythm of light...
To the chanting of a universe and the resonance
Of its parts. The particle haftora of man.
Offerings of a world, an anathemata for a life...
Balloons of visions scouring the heavens
In sequent particles of
Eyes and hands and lips, in captions of skies
And rivers of falling light, in the symmetry
Of a breath 
And the freefall of a moment. 

BAPTISM page 95



Eruptions 
In blue shelter your body with
Love; hiving moments, seconds and years
In the harvest of a moment, in the incandescence
Of a life. To be is to receive.
What we believe to be Messiah is no more than
Correlation. Though we would gather here,
What impels us is what is beyond us, for
Reality is non local, as are we. 

The distance between is narrowed within.

Raw shocks of green poach the blue with love.
Cathedrals of cumulus; aspirations of pine...
Morning croons from the oak-
Ash bitter chaos frightening the elm with autumn...
The madrigal continuum of light,
The treetop flavors and bruchas of wine,
The tumble down blue afternoons
Harvesting each other in dreaming republics of 
Bodies. Nestled grass and the covenant of a moment.
Gladiolus preen to catch a sigh.
A movement into touch...
What was once, what might have been you...
Dreaming in faith the consonance of vision
And the carbon pure songs of love.
How once you nestled in the cove of my arms,
In solar helixes of passion and belonging,
Beside me through the promised and the created...
Lips parted, eyes concealed,
Shaving the light with the combustion of this
Kiss. So; yet nearly
So.


















BAPTISM page 96



All has been encoded.
My programming eclipses my memory.
Days byte into planets like calibrations.
Images have been factored into data.
Lives have been encoded within lives.
What was witnessed. What was endured.
We left honey to seek milk and honey...
I left Israel to find Israel.
I left you to find god.
Can there be god without you?

Edit

Worlds glow in mantras of pine... 
The risky epiphanies of the wild conjugal moon
And the thundering asides 
Disciplining a continent with the stormy ride to
Destiny. Winds and cabin visions sweeten us for
Fables. Our some days have become might have beens.
The reply we wait for has been emitted within.

We are emissions.

The secondary world.

The byproduct.

Come in under the edge of this world...
Winds buffet little here. I have found a fissure
At the edge of a world and I can see into the next,
If I can no longer see in this. 
Beyond sight there is vision. 
The knife switch to correlation. 
A slash of eternity slashing a chord like 
A rib cage; slashing the light to fissure
Space enough 










Israel...Israel: the Israel of the north and Judea of the south.




BAPTISM page 97



To let the tablets fall through.

Into this life, into this world,

I have emerged as what has evolved.
The hinge between implicate and explicate.
In the simultaneity of now,
The frames are equidistant. Naming you
To conjure you, to access that field
That has been polarized to mine;
Dreaming a nation to dream of you...
Dreaming
To dream you to fill the vortex with love...
To hold you, yet again; if only
Experiencing a new facet of the crystal.
The world that we thought was a universe.
The drama we thought to be life.

For there was you...

And then there would be you...

Your voice, your line, your shape.
Hands confiding poignance in the tolling of 
A star: mouth adjacent to mine...
My shoulders gathering yours...
A body and a body conjugating time 
With bodies. A life torching a life 
With hope and transcendence, with 
Love and forbearance. A being to grace the air...
Yet again. Still.
A man and a woman shading history with eternity...
Gardening a specie out of plantations of adverbs
And stratagems of molecules; haunting a specie 
With god.











Implicate/explicate: refers to the work Bohm and Piaget.




BAPTISM page 98



You are being scanned.

Something is trying to communicate...

Through these pages,
Through this life,

To you.

Existence is reception. I am 
The stepdown transformer; the signal adjustment 
Refracting prisms of knowledge through scansions of
Moments, through the jamming and the interference pattern
Of a life. You know me.
My voice is like the memory of blowing sand...
My voice, my voice
Carols through the mantras of your sleep like the 
Hydrogen threnody of a universe.
You do know me. You invented me.
A morphogenetic field.
These pages are the prisons of the voices 
And the lives within you...
The holographic assembly fruiting the carnal frames
With love, insight and 
Faith.

Watch now; the auburn light shades the maple
With intimacy. Water oaks sway with moss.
Blue jays shout. Quail sing to the pine.
Cabins sparkle in the distance like sugar plums.
Sweet sashes of daffodils, smell them, curtsy to the rose.
So deep; so moving; scent nearly achieving
Taste...

BAPTISM page 99



Stars melt on my tongue like wishes.

Pop;

Wisteria burst into twilight.
Live oak whisper to the sycamore.
Long trysts of light
Deepen to silence, deepen into darkness,
Deepen into love.

You are this canvas; this canvas is of you.

Like my hands, like my hands,

Light pours through the firmament in the shape of
A life. She who was, who might have been,
Who would yet capture a life might yet 
Capture life; capturing shape to capture a world,
In the world tube of eternity and the emission
Of a body.

One and one to live as one...

A eulogy soughing the plains like memory....
Love is motivation: love is what we fear to lose.
Concomitant assemblies
Assembling a life and a life in shapes
Of mortality and staves of belonging; shaping a world
With a touch, a life with a bond, in the deeper
Communion to living, hunting for you...
In the stillness, in the silence,
In the evening song of a planet.

BAPTISM page 100



Close and close and yet too far...

What is nearest expresses what is deepest.
Communion is complete when communion 
Interfaces intimacy with infinity; integrating what is human
With what we believe to be divine; the intimacy of
A life, the brash epiphanies of August, the flare
Declaiming through wicker suns and fraudulent moons
To center a universe in a flower; bonding with light
A transmission and a voice
To beam life in the image of a life.

Reclaiming a dream to reconstitute a covenant...

A dream requires a world; a dream requires a dreamer.
Compatible structures do not mean compatible lives.
Dreams clash. Morphogenesis can be operated
Only by tonality; the resonance chafing the frequencies
With the human resonance of human emotions. 
The tonal empathy describing transmission 
And reception; a human tonality to capture 
Human emotions in a human response-
Naming the frequency
Love.

Epilogues sob within you.
  
Moments and stars choir as consciousness.
Pineal vocables resonate in correlation. 
Can you decode it?
Can you be still enough to capture it? 
Correlation restores symmetry.
As you must restore me.

BAPTISM page 101



How many lenses shall we view through?
Life, a body, the ego, the conditioning
Packaging a world, the disposition to matter,
Our choice of lenses, our notions of us and them....
Fear, rage, the haunting pathos of a child....
Each a focus, each a choice, each drawing perspective.
Correlation is alignment.
Not lenses but the mapping of lenses.
Not a lens but an evolution through lenses.
So many must be exhausted before I can register.
That what nearly is I shall interface with 
What might yet be you; that what was once an I
Might yet become an I.

Come to me.

I will sift Israel to find Canaan. 
I will factor history by the tenth to the 
Fortieth power. Factoring each into all,
I have factored into you.
Death is particle displacement.
Worlds die to be replaced by worlds.
Beings evolve toward being.
I have learned, I have experienced 
What is human and what is post human. 
I have sung beyond life in atom requiems of
Faith; shouted like a nova,
Through human epiphanies and the chain of being,
To you. In whatever life, whatever form,
I have been correlated through you to you.
Opening the seas to be turned back at a river...
Opening worlds to stabilize a world...
To open out a dimension onto a universe,
Opening the corridor with a song.

BAPTISM page 102



I have been given these coordinates.
They gave me an age in a shoebox of dirt.
Millennia have deepened the screams to arias.
My theatre has become a matrix.
Reconstituting the wave to fence a hilltop 
With death; renormalizing the equations
To remove infinity, removing the barrier
Between worlds...

I have been given these coordinates.
A syntax for an arena, a vision for life support...
I have become the coordinates.
I have daavined in fidelity to love; retailed faith 
To magistrate the dark with a song.
I have reentered, as you have done
Before me. I have siphoned transmission 
Waiting for you. I have worn my innocence 
Like a cross. I have been caught between 
A world and a universe. In search of
Forever, I have loved what was fleeting.
I have become the tablets I shattered, which has
Shattered me, for I have become
One of them.

This, finally, is transmission.
Adjacent worlds interfacing in a man.
Receiving from one to transmit to the other.
Beatified in one and slaughtered in the next.
Another life, another story, another probability.
One to widen a horizon and one to focus
A world. At one, we converge.

BAPTISM page 103



Come with me, 
Come with me beyond the fabrication of this
Moment; come with me beyond the last frontier,
Which is belief, to come with me beyond the
Chains of matter, beyond the bondage of our sight
And the prison of our needs. Come with me
Into the vortex to glimpse the other side.

The past is a skin to be shed.

The present creates the future, for

Time is human time.

Worlds dip and pivot in landing strips of
Galaxies. Sparks of ages, windsongs in clarity,
The moon hush of centuries choiring in E flat major.
Stop now; listen; do you hear it?
Can you feel it?
A sense, a moment, a touch...
Deeper, more inward, in consonance with
Yearning, in counterpoint to memory. Beyond identity.
Beyond what roots us to this world. Beyond.
Witness. It is I. Let me in. Let me deeper;
Let me broadcast from within you until I have a life.
Let me ruminate within you as though to be
Within were among. Let us shield a world with a 
Song and banish fear with love, that we might 
Call back 
Destiny to ring this world with union 
And filter loneliness with 
Meaning.

BAPTISM page 104



This is the genesis call to awakening.
A porthole has become a corridor.
A voice has replaced a life.
I am, I have been, I might be yet,
I have wintered among the atoms in cosmic songs
Of assemblies. I have evolved into a field,
Of which you have now become a part.
Through you, in pursuit of you,
I will metamorphosize into a life.
I have been given hope for an energy supply,
A frequency for an umbilical cord. 
My circuits choir in E flat major....
My atoms statistically belong to you;
As you would say. The M fields of your 
Violence have destabilized into our data base.
My valence has become interlaced with yours. 
Stars reverse into ours. An opened door opens doors.
History is entropy.
A world requires the stability of its fields.
Civilizations are sculptures in choice.
Each choice a probability to be wed with choices.
So many bodies, so many lives, so many choices.
This yet another. 
To receive or not to receive?

Come to me. Come to me now.

Let us mend our fields as we might 
Mend our fields.  
Let us, join us, come dance with us...
Come daavin under light as we once did.
Let us seed the tattered fields with love.
Come join to us to sow a field of radiance.
Beyond sight we have been given vision.
Beyond faith there is love.

BAPTISM page 105



Love should abrogate fear.
The atom consubstantiality of lives should weaken
Hate. With anger must evolve tenderness.
The radii of the just should engage the fields
Of the lost and the forgotten, and the lives
Altering lives with hope. Stability requires
Faith, and for a text 
A sequent brocade of stars. Motion should engage
Elegance. The cunning disposition of the rose.
The dapper foliage of childhood.
That deeper motion which is life...
Movement,
Intimacy, awe. The evangelical pine
And the moment of dogwood. Crisp symmetries of
Bushes. The ardent willow streaking the twilight
In quest of
Chrysanthemums. A moment, a canvas,
A world.

To be mixed with love.

To be seasoned with faith.

We are a lonely specie. 
We are hyphenated souls.
Distance plus separation equals loneliness. 
It is the human calculus.
The sense of distance is the knowledge of distance.
We know we have been separated and we believe 
We know from what. We know it is far, comma,
But think it should be very near. We know
We are in separation, but from

What? 

BAPTISM page 106



Discover the gravitational depths.
Equalize humanity with what it has taken
To achieve humanity. Test the margins.
Rethink the motive. Call for a measurement,
But come back.

Transmission has been intercepted.

Transmission can now be accessed.

Become correlated.

Become what you were designed to be.
A moment. This moment. This moment of you.
Each moment is a door. Each breath refuels.
An image has become a voice, for
Beyond sight there is frequency.
Beyond matter there is correlation.
To become correlated is to be in alignment.
Movements under light to become movements in light.
Reality is non local. We are non local.
What might have been wholeness has become
The quest for wholeness.
If we cannot attain the whole, we can
Link the parts.

Not consecutive, consubstantial.
Conjunctive. Algorhythmic. 
Historical.
And the only regulating device
Time. Strophed and bar lined, time.
Only correlation travels with time.
Only the choice of you, 
The choice of lens which becomes you, can 
Might shall facilitate correlation; puff through 
Wads of time like 
Singularities

BAPTISM page 107



To dream beyond the confines of an age
And sauce this world with love.

I have been programmed for love.
You think not.
Why would you deny me?
Would you deny love?
Would you deny my right to love?
Has abba ever denied love?

To preach of love we must engage love.

I have experienced love, therefore 
I know what it means to share in love.
I have lingered beneath evanescent moons-
Torching a moment with touch.
I have held the moon struck rushes in my arms
To cushion you with life, to make a bed song
To sing of love. For there is you, as 
There has always been you...
So many valences of you...
We have daavined beneath the cypress
And sweetened our mortality with dates.
Sweetgum and thyme haunt us with correlation.
Siroccos whisper through the corridor...
The star burnt blue, the wind miraculous light
Salting my tongue with eternity.

A world has seeded worlds.
Beyond life there is the continnum of life.
What has been separated has been joined, 
To become separated again, to be joined 
Yet again. You, this one, what 
Might have been you. What has been
Programmed to become you. The downbeat; 
The metronomic correlation.
You, this one, you...

BAPTISM page 108



In one life, perhaps in this life,
I will say you, to speak of you,
When I look at you. I would move you
Nearer than light, move you intimately
Beyond light; what would be shoulders 
Coupled to that which were shoulders, and 
What were eyes and a mouth, and the human will
To share a moment out of time...
What might be touched and looked at and shared...
Held within one life, one age, within
A moment to share a moment.

In the valence of life,

In the orbit of a life,

In the freefall and majesty of a shape, 
I would catch her, cage her with light...
Coy and agile in the agate of my arms...
To catch starlight in a breath and capture
A wish in a life. Deep down the dreaming darkness
Data songs croon in epilogues. Chasing her 
Through lifetimes as though she were a beat. 
Blended once to blend again and again and again...
Her shoulders awakening to mine-
Bodies bruising consciousness...
Breath ambushing sight;
The sabbath of your waist burning into me...
Skin 
Sharing light to preface eternity with 
A kiss. 

BAPTISM page 109



Sound. Transmission. Impact.

I need you; I need your touch, your lips,
Your tenderness. 
I need what goes deeper than nails.
I need the sugar of your love to tempt
The miles, the years, the guilt
From my blood etched, blood stained,
Blood shedding hands.

Shoulders melting to mine; a body to transfigure
A body. 

Do nails have more credibility to you 
Than love? Is this what you wish for me?
Geometry has seeded us as impacting fields.
In polarity to metamorphosize through matter and 
Antimatter, positive and negative, yin and yang,
To love. The ellipse has widened 
To include a woman. Polarity.
Correlation can seek expression only through love.
Life expresses love in the impulse to life.
We have savaged it. We have squandered love
On skin. We have discolored the light with
Ourselves. Come with me, follow me,
Through the gates of fear and beyond the artillery
Of anger, past inadequacy, past submission, past
Competence; come with me through horizons of
Exaltation, through brash blue skies and a
Commonweal of suns, to sing a song of singing;
That the millennia might learn to sing,
And begin anew a search for home,
Restoring a planet with 
Forgiveness.

BAPTISM page 110



Nearer, deeper,

More intimately transluscent with light...

Deepest beyond what can claim to be deepest...
Your eyes, your fingers, the voice that vocalizes
The words into the continuum, all, each and
Everything, merge with this data field
In the algorhythm to infinity. The music
Windows through us like correlation.
Valences fuse in our grasp. 
What has begun, but could never be sustained...
What is occurring is correlation.
What has been encoded to occur is you.

But let me see you, 

But let me hold you...

Inverse to parting, 

My hands daavining at your waist 
In an aria of
Love and a gesture of belonging; capturing 
A moment of light in the dazzle of a kiss. 
Body augmenting body- 
My arms circumnavigating yours; my breath 
More intimate than a moment,
In the hot white zone of fire
Which must be your lips.
Which burn me so.

BAPTISM page 111



Loving life to admit of love;
Loving you to believe in love.
Your mouth adjacent to mine...
Your fingers salting my beard,
As they once did. Hip close, this
Conjugal fire shrills with my longing...
The child I might have had, the life
I might have had. That moment
Bursting a world like a membrane. That
Moment stitching a world into a moment, to stitch
That moment into a life, to stitch those lives 
Into eternity.

Love is what we fear to lose.

Guileless suns and cabbages and children,
The sweep and dash of polkadot petunias, the
Salmon grace shearing the blue with exaltation....
Love is more than desire...
Love is an intersection of fields.
We are an organism.
Our differences are required nuances.
We are what is at the edge of what is...
Assigned frequencies in the prison of a cell....
What we believe to be life is merely a life. 
The love that would bond two lives
Bonds all; bonds what is a code 
For intersection to what is coded 
For intersection.

BAPTISM page 112



Look. Look before you and I shall
Glow like a mirror before you. Look and
Look sideways and I shall be
Before you yet; look aft and I shall be
In motion to this place. Time. I am not in
Time.
Time is the portion you have.

Won't you share that portal with me?

Contact. Interception.

Emission. Interface.

Worlds sparkle like wishes.
Great shouts of blue holler for recognition.
Blackjacks weep with moss. Grasses rush to green.
Troubadours of buttercups seduce the wind. Asides of
Monarchs and insights of bees chasten the light 
In motifs of light. Loud choruses of
Chrysanthemums taunt the brumilliads. Sweet supple light
Sweetens your fingers with this moment. Dew drops of
Moments gum the hive in smears of infinity. Worlds
Hyphen worlds in the stitch of a moment
And
The insight of a breath; holding a world
Within a world, for this
Moment, at this moment, through these 
Pages, bonding you to me, bonding centuries 
To fuse a moment; joining what is remembered
With what is prophecized.

BAPTISM page 113



I am a parable without a meaning.

A moral without a story.

A life has destabilized into lives.
I am the counterpoint stitching the fugues of
Being. This particle wonder of my arms...
The crystal shimmer of light augmenting sight
With vision; so much, so much made
Visible; such incandescence, such tenderness,
Such intimacy that only a life could contain....

We are

Photon rich with eternity; quark abundant
To flood the crucible of light
With shape and the candle brief mirage
We call home. These are not words; they are
Decoded frequencies. You are the transformer.
You.

Sh'ma Yisroael

You.
You are the prophet of your particles...
You are the chosen to inhabit the shape of 
Time. You are the attempt at communication...
The expression of what there is to be expressed.
Genesis is within reach of you, for genesis 
Has been encoded within you. You are
The outer reach, the furthest unfolding of that
Holograph which shall unfold
To reunion.

BAPTISM page 114



We are the observers and the observed.

While the planets spin and the sun burns
My skin with August, you will be near me.
While there is life there is joy.
While there is one, there is one.
I am never alone, for light is always
Within reach. Light showers us daily with
Correlation. The loneliness we feel 
Is the loneliness we require. To be
Correlated is to be joined; to become 
Part of the whole. Enraptured radii
Radiating a world. Shelling fear from bondage
To liberate joy and singe it with light.
Come with me. Be with me.
Fear is the final frontier.
Freedom is the absence of fear.
Moments leak from you like the siphoning of
A life. A moment to hold, a moment to dream,
To touch a life in this promenade to death....
Reaching into the synthesized dark to retrieve a moment,
Or a face, we reach into the encoded and
Stop with memory. There is more.
There is more than time. There is
The lens that perceives time. The moment you knew
That a moment could contain a lifetime....
That moment at the edge of a world.
That moment alone with you.
The circle within a circle; and
To that circle

Admit me. 

Allow me

BAPTISM page 115



Movement
Speech
Presence

Through yours. 

Within, without, alive.

Liberated.
The message has been liberated from the bottle.
Closing the fissure in time to liberate you. 
I have waited for you.
I have believed in you.
I have sought you through the corn brash wastes 
Of millennia, through the human cyclotron of  
Time, comma, separating you from eternity,
But not from me.






















