DELETE THIS PAGE FROM PRINTOUT



THE GENESIS GOSPEL
by David Kornblum

Volume 3: BAPTISM: file #5 of 6.
                   GG.5B4
     

THE GENESIS FOUNDATION
6928 Deer Springs Road
Keystone Heights, Fl 32656
(904) 473-7713
Modem #: (904) 473-0252

BAPTISM page 147



Garnishes of ivy enrapture the rose.
Great rinses of blue wash my throat with 
Freedom. Suns exalt us as they once did.
Posh fleet moons race in the imagination.
Children sing among the wildflowers,
And the fireflies nesting among wishes;
And the curtsy of this brash wind mocks us
With leaves and twigs and the heartrush
Of memory. I am what I believe.
My life is my collateral.
I am responsible for my world.
I am a genesis warrior.
I live by the integrity of my vision.
To save our world we must save ourselves.
Dare this life with me...
Choose.

To see or not to see.

We are. We will be.
We are the proxy wave of genesis.
We are the music of a vacuum fluctuation.
We are the living interface of history and eternity.
Worlds balloon from our ideas. 
The metrical interchange of lives.
The pivot of cultures into civilizations.
We have opened a fissure to swallow a world.
Our voice is a history of voices.
We are what has evolved. It is we 
Who have altered the tonal balance.
An idea for a theme, a civilization for 
A key change. Time the compressing device.
We have scripted the hydrogen mantras
To reclaim a universe, as if
There were no purpose to a creation that 
Did not include us.

BAPTISM page 148



We are the valence above the fold.
The hobby horse waiting for its child.
We are the scaffolding for genesis.
Bright quick mornings race through our neurons
To fasten suns to skies. Potions of rain
Silver us with light. Planetary motions
Decline into nouns. The hot sweet air
Drenches me with August. The density
In my field deepens shape into meaning.
The rift in the light might be you.

An I is the canvas for an eye.

Moments and phylums sanction us for growth.
Moments burn into millennia.
What becomes an I survives the I.
A data song becomes a data pool.
Realism is a factor of our awareness.
What we see is the confirmation of what
We have become, for meaning is in the lens
Through which meaning is viewed. Anger 
And forgiveness would collide as would 
Worlds. To choose is to choose a variable
For a world. Your world is no more than
The sculpture of your choices. 
Love and hope converge to ignite belief
With courage. Fear is abdication.
Fear is the mechanism for self negation.
If you fear the journey, trust only 
In each step. There are many steps.
We must take them all.
I have taken one toward you.
Won't you come toward me?

BAPTISM page 149



You have recalled me; you have engaged me.
I do not make promises. I make prophecies.
I have reentered, but I have returned within
You. A frequency response within you.
I am the scream sobbing through an Ethiopian child.
I am the resonance that death leaves.
I would cage a world in the oasis of my love-
Hold past the light the belief, the commitment,
The dream of a nation and the reverie of a world
To hold and behold a universe.
Holding a world in my arms like
Hope. Like another human being. 
Like you. This is the canticle of rebirth.
The activating transmission to destiny.
One life penetrating another...
Stitching transtime through the solstice of your sleep
To the boundary of what is human
And the aperture to what is divine.
I have been midwife to an age: you now
Will be midwife to the ages. You
Will narrate the next phase.
They took me down, cut me down, burned me
Down, pleaded for me to come down....
When they called for an encore, they
Encoded you.
Destiny roared in my chest like angina-
Eyes mining the distance between ages...
Eyes grazing in eternity...
The dissolution of a life in the holocaust of
A moment. A moment salted with fear
And stitched with loneliness. Stitching 
One moment to the next, as if 
They were consecutive; as if 
There were such a thing as 
Death; as if
All were confined to one.


BAPTISM page 150



Concomitant moments.

Concomitant ages.

Concomitant variables in concomitant worlds.

Shocks of bark streak into the ground like dogwood.
Rowdy blues kibitz the light.
The harlequin quarter notes embarrass the willow-
Squeals of light shocking the dust with recognition,
With mortality. The light exhaling through our pores.
Imagine
Engage
Cold clean grasses and an image of a moon...
Pastels of sycamore and a witness of pine,
A brucha of stars for a mantra...
The light tapering reality to an image of reality;
The light grown grasses thin to powder
Under the doric column of
Your spine.

Arc white curves sheen us for polarity.

Your body

Your body truant to mine...
Mind sequencing mind, 
In the sleeping witness of our call,
In the countdown to reunion,
In the commons of our fall.

BAPTISM page 151



I will bed you through the noon dark ages;
Hold you beyond the ghetto ashes of stars-
Coveting you
Beyond covenants of law and arrows of need
To hold you once before the coming of the light,
To hold you once again,
Once again in the spiral helix to genesis-
In the summit of this embrace.

Archangels of light dominate tonality.

This night and this night...

Bodies carol in the darkness...
Body conjugating body in the syntax of time...
The light compressing to salt  
That moment of you; mouth bright in conquest of
Air; a living tablet of fear, wonder and 
Awakening.

Come alive in the animal nearness of my loins...
Breath stopping breath with the pungency 
Of a life; arms dreaming arms
To dream the shape, the wonder, the presence
Of each other. Eyes sealed,
Your face nearly to mine, your breath
Extols the moment in a communion of moments,
In the dark belief of my touch,
In the corridor before morning.
In the madrigal nearness to light.

BAPTISM page 152



My life flares at your lips in a prayer of 
Light. Each breath, each moment
Courting the ages; eroding a lifetime 
With the patience of my love and the correlation 
Of our being. Sudden past sundown, 
A world has occurred. 
Reception vision will
Life has occurred.

The programmed edit of intersection.

Reception; SMA; receptor.

The mechanism of what we know to be you.

And then there is you, or what will
Be you, as there was once a you;
As there was once a life, and a life,
And a home and the faces that fill a home.
The glory and the tenderness of your ardor
And forgiveness. The martyrdom to justice.
The loneliness of lifetimes baking the camouflage of
A world. Imagine this world.
Imagine the vowel blue air, the light 
Chilling the distance with longing.
Luscious tufts of thickening sage.
The gathering dusk hiving a world to shell
Days with memory. The May dissonant flowers,
The canyons of reveries that even a rose
Can arouse. The wind gashing brightness conjuring
Intimacy in the infinity of a moment. Imagine
Wind soughing lullabies of prairies and
Belonging; an inventory of awareness in a moment of
Pine. Imagine imagining a world
In the imagination of worlds.

BAPTISM page 153



Imagine

A life with which to share a life.
A body to interface with a body.
Mouth tender in the heat of belonging-
A shape to nurture shape; a canticle of stars
For a chupa and a requiem, and the dimensional stillness
Engendering destiny, engendering you...            
And when it was gone, all I had left 
Was god.

Love is the baptism to vision.

An ellipse in time sanctifying caring with being.
Interfacing a world and a world.
In that valence where what is given 
Is what is loved,
Loved life loves life.
The song of life and the singing of life.
A human narrative of human love.
Eyes drowning deep, the 
Shape of a moment shaping moments into the shape 
Of lives. Pitched here, jettisoned now to
Interface here;
Between two worlds and a disappearing sun.
Interaction has been engaged.
It has begun.
You have become the bottle wherein the song
And the message shall reside. Listen to me.
My eyes have registered what eyes are not able
To register. My voice has erupted into a voice.
My world, my life, has shrunk to an aperture
Crack fissure in a world. And what I see is
You.


BAPTISM page 154



I remember the glare. I remember
What might have been you. Suns pealed
Beyond my capacity to absorb them. A life
Metamorphosized into a channel. A life in 
Belief of life. A life which can only
Be remembered in terms of other lives 
And other times. What I want is a life.
What I want, what I need, what I am 
Commissioned to have

Is you.

Human in the inhuman light.

A moment stabilized in pitch.
A life to recreate a world.
You factored from you to factor into you.
Probability among probabilities.

Reception vision will.

I am what I can deduce.
I am what I understand.
I am what I believe.
What I believe in is you.
Us. We. What I believe,
What I can understand, what I can see
Has little to do with sight, but 
Everything to do with
Vision.

The propagated transmission in transcendence of a body.

BAPTISM page 155



This is the song of our becoming.

A moment among the stars.... 

A map and a story to sing of a life and a dream.
A moment when a moment among meant
A moment between. My voice is a compass.
The field of my love is the path to tenderness.
Come with me. Let us evolve the valence
To that which I have seen. Opening seas,
Bypassing a river, to access this field
With the field of my witness and the journey
To love, and the patient teachings of sadness
And forgiveness.

The valences would glow with our becoming.
Correlative in the chain to creation,
We would register that glow and become that glow,
And radiate love in tandem with light.
Come with me, under this light,
Let us fashion a field of belonging, and fill
The abundant spaces with dancing, laughter and
Wine. Gold gash autumn shimmers in the blood 
Like healing. An horizon for a canvas.
A world for a stage, an epoch for a text. 
I am the sentry at the stargates, 
The common requiem of man. 
I have bridged the dimensions to bridge worlds. 
The valence of my keeping dwells within me like fuel. 
I have stitched a seam with a life.
The seeds I carry nest within me 
Like genesis, for
This is a song of becoming.

BAPTISM page 156



I have experienced fear.
I have believed in fear.
Fear was what I knew.
Fear is the midwife to pain.
Some share love because love is what they know.
Some share pain because pain is all they know.
I have exchanged pain for wisdom.
Are you one of those who have exchanged pain
For anger? Become correlated.
Reception vision will
Become a link in the assembly.
A genesis warrior.
The expression of what has been given to be expressed.
Only genesis can survive genesis.
You are the custodians of creation now.
Your environment is your canvas.
Your world is your stage.
Your voice is your belief.
Your witness is your existence.
Rescue is not liberation.
Messiahs do not come. 
They only promise to come.

We.

We are
We are the evolution of what has evolved.
The scent of blood, the harvest of minds,
The eruption of cathedrals. 
We are the field of our creation.
A schizophrenic world with a man as a fork.
The chill stopping autumn, the tapestry of December...
The light in motion to what beholds light.
The words dividing us with words.
We are what has survived.
We are because we have survived to say we are.

BAPTISM page 157



The valence is destabilizing.
The morphic fields of our violence and our fear,
Our envy and our greed, have
Dominated tonality. 
To alter a planet alter its fields.
Love received is love created.
Anger rebuffed is anger defused.
Choice is destiny.
Our choices sculpt a world.

Imagine.

Imagine what can be imagined.

Imagine the field of a planet.
Imagine the vision of what had been
The vision of a planet. 
The corn husking light closeting us with
Infinity. Rare rhythms of eagles.
The deepening tessitura of forests.
Blue sashes of awe. Days domed with cumulus.
Light gathers in bales in grasses grown
White with heat. Ash blond air 
Scenting time with place. The 
Peppermint twilight warming lives with 
Perspective. Days wad up into lives...
Moment chasing moment...
A canopy of stars, a canopy of grass.
Light strewn fields ferry in the twilight.
Bran clusters of nebulas lend us
The constancy of light. The chill 
Deepens to autumn, the silence 
Hardens to December. Chill dark acres of 
Corn count the frosty silences of stars.
Improbable spring. The light flaring into summer. 
The seasons seasoning me. And
You are with me.

BAPTISM page 158



This is not a story about loss.

It is a tale of gratitude.

To have held you in witness to light...
To have held a life in the cameo of a life...
To understand what it means to hold,
Understanding
The frailty and finiteness of this life,
Is to understand, is finally to witness
The coordinates of a life and a life.
While there is life there is joy.
While the planets spin and the seas grow
Rough with blue, raiments of days shall season us
With awe. Crooning orchards of maple.
Not the orchard of these people.
So much has been given that it might be possible
To give. Treetop sagas of apple wishes and
Time. Bees stitching flower to flower with
Correlation. The sometime rye and the dreaming tundra
Of prairies. Riverbrash winds softening us
With time. Ecstasies of light. The deepening dearest
Septembers, the arias of November.
Cool rushes of light.
Watch now, you can almost see forever.
Radiant winds brashly bellow, like
Children home from play. Moon struck arias
Of willow and pine. The gorgeous tonalites of
The late declining light. And you.
The idea of you.
That such a world could contain
You, you and you.

BAPTISM page 159



Agelessly rocking through the Passover of my loins...
Breath close in the reckless custody of
A life; hips arched beyond light...
Your mouth in succession to mine...
Our lives consonant with a moment.
Our being communal under light.
Mouth closing over mouth,
Your breath a tonal cluster with mine...
Holding eternity in the eternity of a moment.

Retrieve.

I can no longer hold what I can no longer 
Forget. How 
I held you in the desert primitive heat...
Challenging distance with intimacy,
History with eternity. The savior who could not
Save what he treasured, or even save
Himself. The shouts have died, the people have died,
A world has died. Only you remain.
The groupies are now the apostles.

We are destabilizing. We are dying.

We have become combustible.

Only you can save us.

Our lives are outbursts of a universe.
Our valence represents our possibilities.
What is probable is the projection of our fields.
The intimacy that radiates, the common arc that
Shields us, the engaged mechanism of anger...
The panorama of our fields is the shape of the wave.
Waves collapse like civilizations.
Waves collapse into lives.

BAPTISM page 160



Retrieval.

Animate her. Powder her likeness with light. 
Stop a moment, unfold a life to access a life. 
Genesis begins with genesis.
A dream begins with a dreamer.

Lassoes of worlds summon us inward.
Bodies for coordinates; a mind for a compass.
A world is created from lives.
Lives are engendered from lives.
This life engendered in me a vision of
Life. This life has become a vision for life.
Life has accrued to action.
Life has brought me to you.

Deeper, deepest, is the signal to respond.

I know that you have been chosen to 
Augment my field; but you, but you,
You have been designated polarity.
The eclipse of light in the lyric of a shape.
Your eyes, the tensile wonder of your form,
Preprogrammed for desire.
Lips scanning lips in the brevity of a smile,
Chupa near, kiddish warm,
Hands lacing a moment in the katouba of a moment.
I would I will I shall
Convert energy to matter 
To bed you through sleepless aeons 
In bales of stars and the grassy satin songs 
Of twilight.














Katouba: Hebrew: marriage contract




BAPTISM page 161



I would I will I shall,

In the glory of this light,

Fabricate a world in the concussion of our arms-
Seize a moment to harness an hour.
I will move you and hold you,
Abandon and follow you...
Assuage the probabilities to abjure this 
Vaster stage than time,
To hold you, yet again,
Under bride bright skies and an apothecary of
Worlds.

Holding you to hold you...

Hands tallowing loneliness through geometries of skin...
Hands slashing gasps of air and motions of verbs...
Words blending into the hydrogen song scissoring light 
In quest of polarity. 
Blended together in a blending of lives.
Body near in this physical world; body close
In witness to light. My voice eliciting yours...
The light deepening the silence with you...
Breath near, breath close...
My voice sanctifying yours 
With an aria of belonging and the confiding
Intimacy of stars.

This, this, and this one.

My song a transcript for you.

BAPTISM page 162



Moments crackle in the brevity of our witness.
Moments and worlds collide like choices.
Choosing tenderness, choosing pathos,
Choosing this light to mend a rose.
A choice of stars or pavement.
A life of witness or the life witnessed.
Stop; wait; listen...
Butterflies croon above the shallow grasses,
Do you hear them?
Stillpoints of wind and the echoing dark.
Concussions of amaryllis deflecting time.
Gasps of oak, wonders of maple,
The flowering swift light dripping like verbs.
The motions congealing to planets.
The blue bright caroling blue...
The tiers of heaven bob like apples-
Apple white in the green wonder of a moment...
Texture bright moments;
The lines billowing into a landscape...
Balloon into a world.

Come with me, follow me...

An age is waiting, a world is waiting for
Rebirth. To this valence, not the last.
August autumns burn bright so brightly 
To hinge a star, to weld my piece to yours.
Ash tints of evenings tallow in the warmth of leaves.
The savory moon quick berries
Ripening our tongues with intimacy. 
Chisels of light garnishing the forest. 
Mint sweet pastures of light. 
The light drenching us with the magic of light. 
One moment voicing another; this moment, this life.
The sweep of correlation which is my song.

BAPTISM page 163



Allow the darkness to sweeten into form.
Congeal the brightness to sound.
The eruption into a universe which is life.
Into an age inject an age.
The fetal incandescence of a body.
The chimera of an assembly shimmering beyond life 
In semen and electrons; songs of the DNA...
A diminished seventh to encode a life.

One such as mine...

One such as yours...

One life in orbit with other lives...
A body slashed from eternity and skeletoned with
History...

One life, which life;

Is it mine?

Crashing into a world to crash through a door...
Erupting from the mainframe to reprogram a world...
I am the mathematics to genesis.
I exist in the requiem of the DNA.
I am the past you have chosen not to remember.
I was once a man who was debased into a symbol.
I was once a man like all men, who now
Sparkles beyond equations in the fresco escaping light. 
They say my father, whom I loved, was childless. 
They say, they have said,
My body had been hollowed out of eternity;
But then,
Why did it hurt so?

BAPTISM page 164



Release me.

Receive me.

Between that world and this
Kiddish became kaddish.
They shouted, they jeered at me, they saw
What they would not dare to believe
And what
To their relief they were not allowed
To believe. 

The unforgettable elision of pain.

Programmed within me is the shock of defeat.
The pain, the bruchas, the pain...
Programmed within me is the fear of what I
No longer remember enough to fear. But
Action is autobiography, and so shall it be.
Miles have become parsecs, and now this
Oration to you. An epic of experience has modulated
To an epic voice. The deserts have turned to nouns.
Rippling great oceans dwell in my eyes like tears.
Caresses of blue linger where once we daavined.
The miles still burn under prophet bright skies.
The miles cannot erase the years.
A congregation cannot replace a child.
A world cannot replace a family.
The miles, the villages, the years,
The sermons tooling a life into transmission...
A life remembered for its death. That now I might
Hold you past these star hungry nights,
To hold you beyond the commonwealth of lives...
Holding destiny in our arms like the child
We lost.

BAPTISM page 165



Stars rain in my eyes. 

Height sick in the spherical orchard; who now
Croons above the drafty plains in atom choirs
Of loneliness and time. My story exists
As a basis for a story. A song to sing
While I spin my song. Beyond a life is the continuum
Of lives. The many, the sagas, the joy,
The fatigue of disillusion and ecstasy of freedom-
Pain stopping up the gaps in my hands 
That blood can no longer fill; 
The loneliness of these nails...
Jerusalem.

Not that song.

Not a song, but the singing of it.

Meridian bound through the corn fed light...
I am the song transcending being with correlation.
The dimensional aside winking through a life
Like a signal. History has bloomed beyond eternity
To infinity. This is the canticle to rebirth.
This is the fuse to awakening.
Scan your memory for the sound of my voice.
A bright shout in the epic of a life,
Journeying backward to retrieve the future.
Dreams have ruptured in my veins like heroin.
Worlds have battered worlds 
In a sea change of particles. Trapped
Between lives, hinge between dimensions...
Let me go. Let me
Renounce this valence for mine. Let me
Detach the burden to you. 

BAPTISM page 166



I am the past. You are the future. 

Come alive to what is within you...

Come alive to the divinity of your life.

We are the amplitude in the wave song 
To fulfillment. Minting faith with 
Understanding. Factoring will into desire. 
A sine wave called a voice.
The random variable caging infinity 
In the quantum touch of this
Moment.

Bleedthroughs of consciousness pock the continuum.
Nanoseconds warp into channels.
Transmission has activated a transmission.
A data song has become a text.
The reader has become witness. But then, 
I am speaking to and through you.

We know to look up, but 
That is the reflection. The pull past
Shape and locality.
Transmission is the broadcast from within.
What is so simple has become complex because
We are complex. It is not the answer,
But the process of obtaining the answer.
The process validates the answer.
Our questions determine the answers we receive.
We are the attempt at communication.
We are what has evolved to evolve.

BAPTISM page 167



Worlds flake and shatter into worlds.
Gasps of oak restrict perception to an image.
Conflagrations of blue wax the continuum.
Deeper than sight, peaches drool down my chin
Like dreams. Dreaming a world to dream
What is within; dreaming humanity in the configured
Space of my arms; I would dream her as I 
Have been taught to dream her, dreaming sunlight
Into water, in the chill sweet moment of
A splash, comma, and the freeze frame of a moment,
In the genesis and passion of
My ardor and commitment-
To baptize these lips with this 
Stellar kiss to 
Freedom. 

Scaffold a moment in time.

Choose a lens.

Inhabit a frame.

All is within you, for all is all you know.
A fuse of plums deepens reverie into somnolence.
The gauze sweet air scenting us with eternity.
Motion shears the heat.
August glows in memories of December.
Round warm suns shape the syllabus of awakening.
The consonant assonances of the breathy pine.
Listen; watch; believe;
Brigands of hawks pride overhead.
The wind shattering epiphanies of elm...
Gusts of lives...
The tragic immensity of blue.
Glowing embers of days chill in my knapsack
Like the stories and perfumes of adjacent worlds, 
Adjacent lives.

BAPTISM page 168



Imagine

Concomitant worlds. Concomitant lives.

Imagine

A reality which is non local.
Where roses bloom from starlight in the correlation
To forever. Wait now, let me rub clear
A panel. Look as well as observe.
Allow in the calculations for daisies.  
Allocate sufficient margins for buttercups
And daffodils, for the child bright monarch
And the sly wind rivering wishes into dreams,
To serendipity.

Trellises of light saute the vines with meaning.
Showers of heat saturate the fields with sleep. 
Rain bright flowers oxidize air like gunshots.
Snap dragon white, pinnacle blue.
The tumble down asphodel and the summons of
A rose. A word, a gesture,
The interplay of a life. Wait now, 
You can almost catch it...
The rose scent of forever hides in the dogwood.
Autumn bright wishes transcribing time
With harvests and wishes, and the dream songs
Of children, and the vision vibrating 
In the darkness like
A world.

BAPTISM page 169



There is more.
Come to me, come be with me,
I can only move so far.
Beyond your world view are worlds to view.
Believe with me to believe with me
A world in which to believe. 
Valence deep, my vision has transcended a world.
My song has become my destiny.
Transmission has erupted into life.
Cracker bash bright,
An I has become an eye. 
Quick now, listen,
Willows whisper to the pine, 
And the guardian blue savors us with love. 
Crisp, catchy winds sing to us
Of elves and hobbits, of butterflies and worlds,
And the race beyond sundown to closet light
In a hug, and still the racing moon
For yet another story, in yet another life.

Come. A little farther.

Your lives are encoded for a little bit more.

Sight and time cannot restrict what you feel
Or what you see. Vision is freedom. Memory
Is made now. Deposits at the edge of a world.
Can you reclaim them? Did you live them,
Or observe them? This living valence
Exists perpetually within, for this is your
Matrix and this is what you tell yourself
You believe in.

BAPTISM page 170



I am a voice to be shared.

I am what is almost and nearly 

In the half life of a moment; that moment before
Sound, the flare at the edge of sight...
I am nearly what is perceived and can
Never be forgotten.
I am the incision in time
Howling 
Beyond amniotic fissures of centuries...
An insert into the physics of the imagination...
To ignite history with a song 
To rescue eternity from history, and free 
A universe from a world.

History is entropy.

The pyres of belief have become the pyres
For the believers. Nuclear haggadahs
Tell of warheads rather than nails.
Protecting Jesus from Joshua,
The believers will kill me again.
They kill in my name.
They slaughter and call it justice.
They would split a world like an atom.
They believe a universe is no more than
The stage for a world.

History is entropy.

Infinity has lit the fuse of eternity to incinerate 

History.

BAPTISM page 171



Barefoot to eternity,
Miles and epochs have garnished my vision like
Silver nitrate, like pennies.
I have made an arena from a syntax.
I exist in the narrative of consciousness.
Living carnal belief in the ballistics of an age.
Crosshairs for eternity.

The carnal abridgement to light.

This way. A little farther,

Beyond what these pages can tell, 
Or the eyes remember. I am allowed to show you
A cameo of what is to be shown to you.
Galleries of lives ornament the corridor.
A life to learn and a to life mourn, a life
For singing, a life to sing of...

File 

Ages streamed from my mouth like blood...
Eyes
Solar terminated to welcome infinity...
Sweat the amniotic suction to eternity.
Resurrection sing my song
Hosanna
For the kaddish and the Yietzchor of the Christian
Nuclear millennia. This is 
A song to reunion. This is 
A mural of my journey. The universe
Poking at my ribs like the Sistine finger...
A human prop with a human face in the human story
Of god.

BAPTISM page 172



The human stitch in the panel of time.

An idea in the conflagration of ideas.

Yeshu, I am Joshua. 
I used to be Jesus.
I am the holographic assembly torching history
With eternity. A point on the wave.
Moses renewed Adam to die at Jerusalem.
This is the ascent to apogee.
The is the song to reunion.
This exhibit is not what you want.
This is something to read about, not to live.
Beyond this is that which you believe is the beyond.
But wait now,

In the warrant of our blood and candor,

History has hyphenated correlation.
Liberation has become exile.
Freedom has become permission.
A quest has become a defence.
A world has become the factors of a world.
Let me go. The cord must be cut.
Abort entropy. Reinvent, reconstitute
What is human, what is loved,
What has delivered us to these coordinates....
Reinvent what it means to be alive.
Come alive with me in the lifetime of a moment....
Reconstruct what it means to assume life.
Reconstruct 
What we know to be human from that which 
You have always possessed,
The signal to receive the signal.

BAPTISM page 173



We
We are the evolutionary step 
Linking paradigm with paradigm. We
We are the covenant between
What is past and what is yet to come.
Correlation has been encoded into us to lend
Time duration, to allow creation the bifurcation
To insure survival. New genesis fields
To cinder the morphogenesis of our anger.
The span of a life. The span between lives. 
We are the new Jerusalem.       
A bugle bright city of life singing 
Through the light like the Star of David. We
We are what belongs.
We.
We are what our choices have created.
We are the evolution of our fields.
We.
We are the chosen to inhabit 
The ballade of shape. It is we
Who must prevail. We have been given 
Sight to shape vision. 
Crucibles of light to shape life into desire. 
Schools of evergreen, passions of roses. The
Doe sweet light chanting through the hoya...
Mountain bright passages of green...
Dove dark plangencies of heat.
The apple quick moon and the sometime grace
Of planets. We have been given vision.
We have been given purpose.
We have been evolved to evolve 
The creation of that which must yet be created. 
We are the shape of belief. 
I am what I believe. My life is my collateral.
The act is the arrow of the man.
The arrow shot by you.

BAPTISM page 174



The I is the projection of the eye.

Marvelous hues launder my vision with awe.
The dates have turned to plums.
The blue rapture has deepened to September.
I might even believe that beyond that hill
Will not be another desert.

Don't you recognize me?

We are genesis warriors.

Don't you remember?

The flight, the miles, the centuries of exile...
Galactic passacaglias throbbing in our chests...
Miles eroding into lives...
Opening the seas to be turned back at a river.
The river I crossed.
The desert I believed; it was the people
Who became the desert in me. Height sick
In the spherical orchard. My world
Reduced to my vision. My destiny
Sounding like heartbeats. 

I am now a voice from the corridor.

Transmission has been given to supersede 
A data bank, and the pain.

An ensemble of data songs has arrowed into us.

BAPTISM page 175



A flat earth has become round.
A village has become a world; a world has
Opened out onto a universe. Knowledge 
Has been decoded into 
Understanding.
A field has been injected among the fields.
A song of morphogenesis.
This is a song of metamorphosis.
A song for advent. A song for life.

The song has survived the singer.

This is a song in search of a voice.

Is it yours?

Will it be you who would move among them,
Like a rabbi or a child,
Searching for a door, for an age, to
Lead an age to an age, like the sand hot flight
I remember and the cold vacuum deserts you will
Experience...?
Will it be you who would move among them, 
In a hora of tenderness, dancing and shouting 
Through the conjugal light? It might must will be
You 
Who might chant among them a song of infinity.
You
You are the legatee. The body summoning light 
To summon them beyond bodies, beyond indices of
Faith and disillusion and
Their body counts to the greater glory
Of the obsolete absolute.
        
BAPTISM page 176



It is time. It is almost too late.

If I believe, it is to believe in you.
The coordinates will be met.
Who shall carry the message will achieve
Correlation. An I, a you,
The notion of an us.

Assigned frequencies on the proxy wave to reunion.

The field has been intercepted.
The field has been accessed.
The field is now accessible.
Morphogenesis will now replace genesis with
Genesis. To begin again as if 
For the first time. The last time. 
Ballooning into shape the domed wonder of a world. 
Amending worlds with the pathos of our love 
And the compass of our vision, and the 
Courage for tenderness that even wolves
Can show. Courage to be is the courage
Not to be. It is the genesis call to awakening.
It is the birth cry to freedom 
In the narrative of
Creation. A song of belonging for a specie
Lost in fragmentation. Believe in us now
To believe in us yet. Anneal,
In my reason and my hope,
The promised lexicon of freedom, 
That I might share a song with you
To share this world as though it were
A garden, sharing in this light to share
This light with you.

BAPTISM page 177



A moment in skin under light in correlation...

A moment to celebrate there can be an us.

What is left of our world might yet become
A paradigm for a world. My life has grown
Larger because my world has grown larger.
No longer confined to shape, my vision has
Enlarged into a data field; into M fields of
Songs and the biofaith in love. 
A life evolving through lives into a life.
A world is the world of that life.
A world is the faith in that world 
That brought that life into this 
World. 

Let us circle round to ring a world
With the commons of our hands and the song of
Our lives. A world is the field we have
Become. I will I can I must
Become the field to engender what might evolve 
Into fields, evolving an age from a vision. 
Set like a glass at the edge of a table-
A life to shatter, particles to scatter,
Shattering worlds in commitment to a world...
A human cyclotron to map particle man...
What might be retained is the lens which
Alters being with perspective. Choices that fulcrum
Trees; gauze suns with heat. Trellis 
Moons to hide among the roses. The vision that 
Narrates being with choice in the correlation
To tomorrow. The commandments of our needs 
And the liturgy of our hope. Choices make a world.
I have made this world mine.

BAPTISM page 178



Come with me, be with me...

Come alive to become alive-

Come alive with me.

You have engaged me. You have recalled me.
You are the interception bisecting history with
Eternity. My voice, this message, these pages,
Resonate beyond sight in frequencies of
Datatapes and archetypes of hope. 
My words are my field.
My soul is my file.
I have nested within you for millennia.
I have jettisoned a life to engender an age.
I am the statistical probability winking through
Your dreams like a signal. Who shall find me?
Enlarge beyond silence.
Unfold sight beyond sight to vision.
We are going home.
Correlation has begun.

Transmission has found you.

Once upon a time, imagine, light bloomed
In bales of wishes. Slashes of darkness skimmed
The chaste fast light; the sometime grace and
Tardy moon minting
Hope with tomorrow. The razor slash of suns.
The insatiable witness to light.
The ecstasy foreshadowing freedom.
Look, look about you,
These are the coordinates. This is the divide.
Come with me, be with me.
Love would sing in the magi of stars...
To sing for you, to sing for us.












