DELETE THIS PAGE FROM PRINTOUT



THE GENESIS GOSPEL
by David Kornblum

Volume 3: BAPTISM: file #6 of 6.
                   GG.5B5
     

THE GENESIS FOUNDATION
6928 Deer Springs Road
Keystone Heights, Fl 32656
(904) 473-7713
Modem #: (904) 473-0252

BAPTISM page 179



Once upon a time, 
Life was delivered to life in bales of atoms and 
Coupons of choices. Hydrangea
Waited for your call. The lazy cirrus shadowed your witness
With arias of becoming; the infant wonder of 
A physical world. The light, the heat, 
The chill bright flare of our becoming...
A world as open and becoming as yet 
It still might be. Appellations of robins
Croon for our waking. Gusts of radiance balloon for
Our wonder. Imagine a world in the savory
Of light. Brush quick hollows smear into forests.
Mellow passion breezes choiring through my hair...
This moment alone in the fulcrum of a world.

Imagine

Imagine 

The tryst sweet songs we know to be light...
The planetary fields arcing to wholeness...
A moment of a world in that moment in a life.
Imagine a world as you would imagine a world...
Umbrellas of palm, threnodies of pine;
The delinquent crooning heat, the somnolence of pears,
The rushlight fauning to splendor.
The tumbledown iris and the fleet posh blue.
Gradations of days. Listen, snap dragons pout
In the crackle bright dawn. A motion of marigolds.
Animations of azalea. Bleach white moments chanting 
In stillness. Imagine the immensity of your bequest.
The banquet of a globe; the opportunity of its
Fields. Shocks and warrants of insights.
A world cocooned in fulfillment of your eyes.
A moment of becoming in the justice of belief. 


BAPTISM page 180



The stillness of a world in the stillness of a world.

This moment of your becoming...

This moment of intersection.

Docking is near.
The convergence in the stillness. 
An injected variable varying the fields.
That moment lingering beyond sight...
That moment beyond what is outside...
That moment when an I becomes an eye.

Apt tunings of stars reward us with life.
The firebrand in the stillness.
The spark that triggered a world.
The separation which became free fall.
Correlation is with objects now; not 
With that which might hiss into the world 
In a pinpoint of light, in the pause between movements,
In the caesura of a life.

Advance with me through the pastures of living
And the fields of our dying: come with me, 
Beyond the gulag of your sight and the radiance
Of your becoming, to come with me 
Beyond eternity to infinity. Let us 
Rebirth a world with the rebirth of ourselves. 
Let us garden our prophecies to tool hope
Into love. We might, We might capture
A moonbeam to hive a moment; unzip a world
To step into a moment.

BAPTISM page 181



Share a moment.
Share this moment as we might have shared a life.
Share this moment with me.

The portal, the door.

The moment. This moment. Any moment.

Enlarge a moment to a world.
Fill it with hope; cavern it with awe. 
Flavor it with seasons.
Caramel autumn woods would glow in the 
Resonance of your nearness. Leaves, half notes and
Nuclei 
Pirouette into a world. Crackerjack reds and
Gumdrops of blue. The brush fast blue rivering into
A breath. The valence has circumscribed deserts
With hope. The plangency, the urgency. A
Stillpoint of light in the ecstasy of a rose.
The green voracious pine.
The stark lonely skies and the desert prairie nights.
What is deepest harmonizing with what is
Most intimate; the flare and moment of a world
Baking identity with history.

Countdown to maybe in the midnight of why.

I am a message in a body set adrift across time.
Jerusalem Madrid Warsaw Riga Ethiopia
They must never forget what I must never remember.
Trapped between lives to trap eternity 
In a man...

Winking and blinking in the Hilbert distance...

Pulsing through the nebula of a life. 

BAPTISM page 182



I have cracked a fissure at the edge of a world,
Letting eternity leak through my hands
As though it were light. Destabilizing 
In excess of a planet.
Fording stars to tailor a life from a star...
A life in consonance with life.
I was promised miracles. I was given only drama.
An anvil for a stage; a spotlight for a sky.
Arms wide to freedom...
Skin caking with light to harvest a nation
From a dream, a world from an idea; when
Screams lived in my mouth for prayers
And eternity poked at my life
Like a hungry animal.

Galaxies drift through my hands like wishes...

Remembering what is left to remember...

Hands which once held you...
Holding nails in the wood matrix to judgement...
Hands which once held a world
As though it were a message,
Holding a world as though it contained lives...
Holding a world as though it were a symbol.
Eternity ruptured through my ribs like mortality...
Only a voice gives it presence now;
Only the song sustains it. Eyes
Searching what was believed to be distance...
Eyes smearing the light with tears,
With hope,
With love.

Jew
Witness
Man

BAPTISM page 183



I am the data song of my vision. 
I am the data song of your access.
You are history. You are all that is left.
Shoulder to shoulder before god, that
We have life is the only proof of god
We need. Correlation is inseparable from life.
Reality is non local; as are we.
I am as accessible as what is within is accessible.
I can alter your lens, but I cannot
Alter your choices. I can only sing to you;
I cannot sing for you.

In the bitter evocative pathos of our lives,

Being is the mantra of the visible.
Sight beyond the call of belief.
A clarity beyond which eyes can know.
Eyes homeward haunting sleep with the intimacy of stars...
Time is what organizes. Time is what we have become.
Time is the wall keeping you from me.
My voice resonates along the continuum...
My voice fracturing within you like the
Unconscious.

In the orbit of my vision
And the propagation of my love,
A song has replaced a world, a mission
Has replaced a life. An oration of fields
Orating history through a life and through lives...
The song haunting humanity in ashes and tears...
Dreaming of liberation in a dream of forever.
The spherical harmonic correlating distance and
Love into radio waves of hope, into Om,
Into a sine wave of being, and into union,
For the love and this bonding
I bequeath to you.

BAPTISM page 184



The surface is resplendent with miracles.

It is only we who have become lost.

Follow me, children, come with me
Beyond the gingerbread gates of our gingerbread world.
A valence transcends a world. As you might
Transcend a life. Look about you. Look,
Look back, become aware of the lens through which
You do look; and how many lenses you have used.
Look back, look at that
Human bright anvil you took for a life,
My life. Look now, look how far you have come.
Haloes have replaced crowns, access has replaced miracles.
The light choiring in my hands no longer burns
Through them, but blooms within them.
The lush bright aura baking a life.
Docking is as near as an embrace.
Would you go back?
Would you mourn for me or sing with me?
More spin, a little noisier; come, dance with me...
Resisting less you will see more, because
You have dared to see more. 
The move inward is the move to inwardness.
Choices script choices until the choices 
Make a world. Don't go back.
Come with me, be with me,
Let us prune these fields with love, that
The love within each might encompass all.
Injected into this capsule of a life,
In transmission with transmissions
In the valence of transmission,
I am transmitting at this moment, for 
This moment, in correlation with you. 
Share this moment with me.
Emerge with me through the singularity of faith...
Believe with me to believe with me 
A world in which to believe.

BAPTISM page 185



Vision begets choices.
Vision becomes choice.
The field of our vision becomes the vision of
Our world. Stand with me, come with me,
Be with me, let us image a world
Beyond the image of ourselves. Wish fast joys
Linger for worlds. Polyphony coheres to matter.
The moment of a world exists in moments of a world.
A rumpus of pine.
Confections of eiderdown and stars
Confecting love in confections of patience.
Fence green dragonflies and sage.
The chill blown darkness defrauding crickets with autumn.
Wish bang doves; the geese flocking through the corridors.
Light harvesting light in the applause of light.
The downbeat... Can you feel it?
Can your eyes work in rhythm to the rhythm
Which evolves into eyes? 
Worlds cluster like wishes.
Schools of evergreen choir beyond light into forests.
The deepening light deepening light into memory.
Life is so vast it cannot be contained to 
A life. Ages ocean through you.
Choose a database, choose a world.
Shocks of blue and requiems of green.
Your environment is your canvas.
Capture a moment, arrest a world.
Achieve the stillness at the edge of light.
Tallow gusts of light shear the windsong
Of lilac and the patient hints of birds.
Adjutants trim the pine with eighth notes.
Wind nesting in their throats like sonnets.
Casual wishes of eagles
Tip so low
Light
Shears through their wings like envy.


BAPTISM page 186



Look up, look out-

Horizons screen us from horizons, for
This horizon is no more than the horizon of
Your eyes. Mimosa sing for us. Don't you hear them?
Raspberry garish suns stoop to epilogues.
Peach bursts of light flooding the lawn sweet air...
Sweet torts of winds rivering through the wildflowers...
The apples, the plums, the wild iris unlocking 
A universe with a scent, 
And the radishes, and the bloom white dahlias
Smart in my eyes like memory....

At this moment, for this moment, within
This moment, all correlates within each.
Watch now, light leaks through the dusk 
Like a probe. Deeper within stillness
Is the stillness that is deepest within. That
Moment at the advent of a world. Perception 
Deepening to vision; deepens a world to a universe.
The stitch, the frame, the observer.
Come into this stillness.
Come in under the chrome brash light...
Unzip a world to explore a moment.
Miles have canopied stars with loneliness.
Miles,
Which have taken me from you,
Linger beyond faith in the lonely white lines
Of a lonely republic, and the grim dark fields
Hoarding lives with miles.

BAPTISM page 187



Have your eyes adjusted yet?

Has your singular eye emerged?

Millennia have accrued like cholesterol.
The valence is destabilizing.
The field has factored into fields.
This is a song for reunion.
A canticle for rebirth.

Encoded within you is a place,
A frame, 
The expression of which
Illuminates the stitch.
The moment, the wonder, the miracle.
Within us is the moment that we believe to be
Moments. Vaster than tablets is the software within.
Garish theatres of molecular receptors.
A supernumerary of particles, and
The channels, the frequencies,
The moment of intersection at the coordinates 
Of correlation.

That moment. as that moment when

Eyes inward, 
Breath deep beyond the need for breath,
Eyes inward reconstituting a world...
That moment.
Flesh bright in the cameo of a life...
Alive in the ecstasy of being.
A moment under light.
of extraordinary richness and amplitude...
A moment captured from moments 
In that moment which 
Captures a life. 


BAPTISM page 188



Come with me into that moment...

That moment which is ours to hold and to share...

Come with me beyond the whip scythe panorama
Factoring whole worlds into none. Come
With me, beyond the kaddish of history and the
Fear passing for faith, to come with me
Into the vortex of a moment
Encoded to unfold into 
Vision, into you.

Come with me, follow me,

My eyes, half blind, can see for generations.
My coat is a rainstorm. My song is my compass.
My love is the field of my witness.
The dimension leaking through me 
Choirs 
Beyond light through bar lines of vision
And apogees of wonder. Out in the white wide
Widening arc, silence accrues yet another point,
Another life. This life. Your life.
Each life an epic of a wave in the proxy wave
To genesis. A new vision for a new age.

You and you now...

I have come for you.

BAPTISM page 189



Moments unfold like doors.
I cannot enter them without you.
I am the data field you have sustained.
A body metamorphosized into an idea.
The data song modulating into a life.
An I that surrendered an I for an eye.
Moving beyond viewing to correlation,
To alignment. To you.
Rare moon nights shelter our valence with pathos.
Wry wisps of asphodel. A commonwealth of pine.
A liturgy of shapes, a canvas of meanings.   
The midnight radiance of sweet corn 
And the dreaming asides of stillness and you.   
An explosion of a life in the explosion of life.

This moment between us...

Addressing a world with a world...

Witnessing creation to recreate eternity with infinity.
This moment has become the moment of a world.
Come with me. Through the door, which is within,
Into the corridor. This way. It has always been
This way. They are shutting the door.
They will shut the door behind you.
Does it matter? Do you doubt it?
Follow me, follow the frequency of my voice.
Look into the mirror of my eyes. 
Search my vision for the shape of you...
In place of yourself
You will see a door. You will become the door,
For that door is no more than a mirror,
Much like your emotions. So many lenses.
So many doors.

BAPTISM page 190



Treasons of moons change us with ourselves.
So much is left to do; so much is left
To achieve. Seize a moment, seize a world.
Allow this moment between us to deepen a moment 
Into a door. Each life the commemoration of all.
The field of our witness renewing the witnesses.
The contribution of lives it takes to make
A life.

Vision is a brushstroke, one among many,
A strategy for living. Vision decrees value.
What we see is what we become. 
Vision is our primal act.
Allow for the canvas a spot reserved for you.
Fill it with the resonance and the light pattern
Of home. So much is possible, but possible only 
With you. The ellipse is wide enough for two.
Hold this quiescence, ripen it to spring.
Ridge the cold with barrenness. 
Edge it with light. New light. The scent of light.
Rapid brushstrokes of young pine.
Apple brash days and poignant nights.
Congregations of bushes, an adolescence of butterflies.
Rain tender grasses belling the light; the radiance
Flaring like wind to italicize a moment. 
The light swooning through matinees of crickets.
The mist gathering in bales in pockets of light.
Moon dust. Tree shattering twilight.
An enterprise of stars.
Oaks croon through molecular nights.
The sing song bob white and the busy robin
Are put away now, like toys in a box. 
A harvest of moments like the harvest of memory.
That peeping time of teddy bears and snowmen...
That moment into the stillness when time stood still
And light flooded your eyes with hope.

BAPTISM page 191



Light shears the ozone like a knighthood.

Moments and stars drifting like lives....

Winds sob through my hands like soliloquies.
A moment contemplating you.
In the corridor. In transmission.
Don't look back, don't look down,
Look within. 
A universe awaits us, just beyond this world.
Come with me, come in under the brash eternal light.
Room dark in the covenant of our eyes...
In this moment before waking,
In this moment of your calling,
An assembly has come alive in the witness 
Within you. Bodies hum like pulsars
In the ten
To the fortieth minyon for eternity...
Making this treasurable moment skin.
The light harvesting genesis in a song of awakening...
Beckoning all, beckoning each, 
Beckoned into the light in a hora of forgiveness.
Deeper beyond twilight to deepen twilight into us...
Molecular harvests cull us from the rose.
The quick down light harvesting an axis with sight.
Light coalescing in the dominion of a body....
Calling through the centuries, through dimensions, 
Calling through lifetimes, ghettos and ashes
To call your name, to call you home-
Calling through the parsecs,
Through the valence and the radiance,
In the martyrdom and prison of my ardor and faith;
My Hasid longing for justice, and 
For you.

BAPTISM page 192



Resurrection is you.

Redeem me.

I am the conjugate attribute of your vision and
Longing. Redeem my name, my life, my tribe.
All is obsolete. All is all there is.
Gruff drums beat in precision, or is it
A heartbeat? 

I have survived them all.

It is only life I cannot survive.

My voice has survived my body;
If not in a voice, then in the probability
Of a voice. The hemispheric ratio to light. 
The transmitted transmitting to reunion, and
To life.
 
Redeem me.

Take into your body my longing and my hope...
Unfold the centuries enfolded into the miles
To unfold the data base which was once 
A world. Share with me this abundant light,
The song sweet light preserving the encounter
Within the stillness within. 
I hear the universe singing.
I hear the universe singing to us.
I have heard light crash through the solar chapel
Of my world. I have looked into the mirror of
Language and have seen
You. 


BAPTISM page 193



History is the mirror for a specie.

The warrant of our blood and candor.

The stitch and scope of our delivery.

A life can alter an age.
An age can alter the ages.
A moment between might alter to a moment among.
Stars cluster like wishes.
Chrysanthemums christen the hedgerow.
Apple sashes of days launder us for waking.
Clusters of moments, clusters of days, clustering us
With choices and witness and the common wonder
Of experience.

A moment among might alter a moment between.

A moment is a door. 

Beyond the door is an age.

This way. This way; come with me
This way.
Redeem me. Let me go.
Redeem what is ours.
Redeem a world from pawnshops and churches...
Redeem what is ours and ours alone
To redeem and renew within the encounter within.
The force field of my love has gardened 
Prophecy with memory. Moving into life
To move into life. A stitch, a moment, an age.
A door.

You.


BAPTISM page 194



You are what has survived.
You have survived to evolve and become.
Transmission is the broadcast from within.
Correlation stitches within and without.
My love winters in your body like an embryo.
The field of my witness has become the data song
To reunion. Through the conjugal dark
Ages, I have journeyed in transmission to you.
I have sung through portraits of laborers and
Fugues of refugees. I have domiciled among
The ruined, the forgotten, the oppressed...
Sheltered fire with the fire in my hands
To warm a moment to call a moment home,
When a moment was the only home I had.

Find me. You have found me.

Redeem me.

Amend my life with my vision...
Amend the prop with meaning.
Let me go.
It is time. It is almost too late.
A cacophony of fields is shattering the valence.
The frames, the tablets, shattering like lives.
Admit me.
Allow me.
Enter with me this corridor to reunion.
Come with me, follow me,
The price of admission is a life.
Enter the door to your greatest fear...
Freedom, and the freedom to be.

BAPTISM page 195



Plums still whisper to the rose.
Deepening umber mints of suns deepen us 
For dusk. Plumes of days. Shock white cirrus
Sear us with meaning. Arbor trellises moor
My song sweet valence. The wish fast willows
Still mourn with me. Sun scenting seas
Undulating like prophecy. In the
Distance between lives,

Comma,

What expires expires to seed an awakening.
Lives destabilizing into lives...
In the corridor, in the distance between lives.
Transmission is the data base.
Correlation is the balance between each.
Us. We. You and I.

Deepen the silence to light.

Genesis lies within.

Transmission is a map. 
Transmission is the algorhythm to reunion.
This is a song of becoming.
The genesis chant to freedom.
Come closer, come nearer,
Come dance with me a hora of forgiveness...
Come join with me 
Under light in the baptism of our skin
To stand with me before the correlating light,
Salting a world, and my cheeks, with love
And reunion, and the genesis quest
For god.

BAPTISM page 196



I have been given a song in place of a life.
I have been given a quest in place of a home.
The field 
Of my witness has factored into the data song 
Of my will. My words 
A molotov cocktail to ignite the thirst 
For freedom. Redeem me. Redeem a universe from
A world. Unfold with me
The encoded song of our witness and becoming.
Access is redemption. Access is renewal.

Come be with me, come daavin with me awhile...

Moons engage us for tomorrow.
Stars still prick us with awe.
Lilies sway with the sweet gum.
Moments and apparitions sparking the wild sweet grasses
With fireflies. The surface is resplendent
With miracles. And with us.

A moment between engendering a moment among. 

A moment with you.

This moment. This age. This life.

Textures of white have shaped what I dare not 
Believe. The arbor voice in the elusive arbor.
The motion of eternity swaying through me
Like a downbeat or a hum. Om H2 vortices
Words. Words. Words tap words...
 

BAPTISM page 197



My words,

Let my words haunt your speech with genesis.
Allow and believe this legacy to you.
In the baptism of this light, we are
The amendment to light. Move deeper
Into the silence with me. Move beyond sight
To vision. I have waited for you. I have
Followed you. I have endured the pagan supremacy
Of my name. I am one. I am only one. 
I am what it means to be alive in the concussive 
Shock of my skin. I am what exists to say 
I am.
I am what I believe. My life is my collateral.
My vision is my song. 

I implore you.

I beseech you.

Let me go.
Look at me for what I was and shall be...
A Jew
A man
A life.
Let me go.
Let me detach the burden.
Let me wander in the arbor of our making and
Deepen belonging with correlation. I have been
Waiting for you; believing in you; I have
Waited for you.

BAPTISM page 198



In the mind, in the corridor,

In the sequence to light...

Radii of choices plot a circumference of worlds.
Light has blended us in a baptism of fire.
Ores of trust and singularities of faith...
We are the scale of witness in the summons 
To light. The correlative bonding to reunion.
The new phase is contact.
A new age for communion.
The sing song of our witness and the treasure 
Of our becoming. Baptism is a bond.
Baptism is the expression of eternity
In the therapy of
A moment. 

Baptism is the commitment to bonding.

Basting in anonymity, bleached with poverty,
Annealed in hope,

I have haunted the probabilities with divinity...
Beheld the dream of a nation before the horizon of 
My arms. I have 
Hoboed through the astral dreaming prairies of
Deliverance and freedom. I have sustained correlation. 
I have sung beyond the chains of being to reach you...
To burn a moment into an age
In the capital ride to
Destiny.

BAPTISM page 199



I have cauterized an age with a life...

I have jettisoned a song with a body...

Surviving beyond ignominy and anonymity,
Through the carnal republics and the aria 
Of this life, to the waiting chalice of 
A moment, when
Insight deepens to poignance and a world
Catches in a moment, catches in a life,
Like an age gone out in a breath.

Data file of a nanosecond.

Could you, would you,

Notice me?

You are all that is left to believe in...
A signal exists to be received.
Admit me. Find me. 
Come alive in the fury of my arms...
Decode a moment with me.
The garden you left cherishes your resonance with
Bash bright plums and the journeying sweetness of
An apple. Quarks sing through us. 
QED tugs at us like home.
The common winter of our passage and faith.
Gusts of light breed us in wave packets.
Relatively autonomous subtotalities.
We are the creation.
Dissipative structures in the ecosystem of a cell.
We are what has been projected in the laser
Of our will to find expression and shape
In the holomovement to rapture, in the
Correlative bonding to forever.










QED: Quantum electrodynamics
Relatively autonomous subtotalities: see David Bohm





BAPTISM page 200



Lush bright mornings chisel us for faith.
The garden of our valence is the universe of
Our probabilities. Dear one, look now,
A radiance of cypress. Blue gashes of blue. 
A ceremony of pine. Out in the valence,
Geese hover in the corridor as though between
Worlds. Rush sweet grasses 
Wander among the water lights and the stars.
The pomegranates hang like wishes.
Encoded also are gauze swift suns and oceans
Heaving with awe. Pop bright stars.
Cameos of moons and trellises of light. 
Dreaming, wishing, hoping.
The brush burnt skies and the common mystery
Of a rose...

So many sites; revealed through so much.

Let us, allow us, ennoble us to
Choir in the afterglow a song of faith...
Calling down a world to focus a world...
In the lens of our becoming and the correlation
Which is life; calling through the dreaming parsecs
To bundle energy into mass, to call it being, 
To call it home.

Begin as if to begin.
Begin at ten to the minus fortieth.
A door begins with a moment.
Each moment encoding a stitch.
Encoding access in each moment.
Blooming a world from the bloom of an insight.
A moment, a step, a life.
A world.

BAPTISM page 201



Shouts of pine crash the distance...
Ecstasies of light savor us for wishes.
A radiance of morning glory, the salt sting 
Of pathos. The cheshire wonder of a life.
So much awaits us; but can only
Wait for us. 

Come with me...

Come daavin with me awhile.

Beyond the village of our world is the valence
Of our choices. A universe of universes.
Years are registered in parsecs.
Forsythia bloom in place of bodies.
Nails are for tree houses.
The rich ripe blue, the patient meadow
A patient canvas for light. With correlation
Each blooms with the bloom of each.
As our touch is the bloom of us.
We have traveled centuries to rendezvous. 
We are genesis correlated to achieve polarity,
In the song to reunion which is
Life.  

How many lenses has it taken to come 
This far?

How many lives to make a life?

How much longer to interface?

I have and have fallen, and must now
Fall away.

BAPTISM page 202



A moment beyond, a moment within,

A moment nearer....

Dimensions wink.

Orbits eclipse. Docking like worlds
In the apogee to reunion. Jettison.
Bright blaring moments scream into history.
A moment is now a world.
An assembly has been activated.

Nearer, closer, 

Come look at this with me.

Hope damasks the early morning light. 
Cathedrals of cumulus shelter us 
With belonging. Dew puzzles my fingers with
Life. Crocuses shudder with light.
Listen. Honeysuckle quicken the magic into
Scent. Lines of corn blooming like verbs.
Watch now; chill quick heights of eagles.
Hiss white raiments of stars.
Butterflies croon above the plangent green...
Yellow jousts of light-
Eruptions of yellow conjuring awe from
A moment. 

A promissory note for a world.

BAPTISM page 203



Come with me, 

Come into the vortex of this moment.

Worlds spin like dreydles; the rare wick flame
Spinning worlds like photons; spinning lives
In the particle concert of forever. 
Reality clusters in bushes, berries, in
Piquant shards of rare moon indigo. Taut
Plums. Gashes of peach. 
The moment savoring a moment in the moment
Of a world. A commonwealth of moments.
Lash bright suns quickening us for awakening....
Come with me, a little farther...
We'll leave our values for bread crumbs.

Kiss bright hoya croon for our waking.
The April pride of our sometime grace...
Moon basking nights basting us with longing.
Common treasures of hyacinth.
The searing gashes of memory linking us with
Home. The moment under light 
In the patience of our skin. Moment
Expressing moment in the deepening maturation of
Our vision and belonging. A radii of chorales.
Wishes ride like fireflies through the portal
Of this moment. The light removed. Eyes dark
With vision. Enlightenment is the engagement within.
This moment together; this moment between and among.
You now, come closer. Come be with me 
Awhile. Light bursts between us.
A moment beyond to deepen a moment between.
A moment to deepen moments. 













Spinning: Bohm interpretation of the Bell Theorem.





BAPTISM page 204



Contact.

Ignition.

A universe has fired beneath an age.

Imagine
Once upon a time
Imagine 

Imagine great sea tufts of clouds...
Inordinate blooming forests; miraculous blue...
The cogency of light. A commonwealth of lives
Preserving the distance with faith. 
Engineering a moment to engender a world....
Green gifts of fields flower us with life;
Moment and moment
Hissing like pearls in the doge of light.
Imagine me. Imagine us.
Imagine the pastel of a world in perspective to 
Joy. Imagine being able to imagine.
Cover the palette with wishes. Amend
What has been given with what can be created.
We are the aperture to transmission. We are
The prism refracting light into matter.
Choruses of phenomena Gabrieli us with joy-
The sing dazzle light, an oration of blue...
A canopy of autumn deepens to stillness,
Deepening to memory and the correlation of 
A smile.


BAPTISM page 205



Worlds float through endless dream forgotten
Summer days. The hollyhock, the primrose,
The moment we shared among the roses...
The long trysts of light,
The twilight hopes and midnight dreams
Conjuring freedom from an idea. Ashes 
Silver our speech. The autumn bright nights.
Enchanting blues enchanting lives
With rose rich pauses in light, and the
Common pathos of a star. 

So much accrued, but so much has been lost. 

What age is this?

Is it yours?

My body has been birthed, but my eyes
Must be rebirthed. You, you and you.
They must never forget what I must never 
Remember. I am the field of my belief, for
Freedom is vision, and I am
What I believe. Everything I conceive
Turns to matter. Lazy songs dip through the meadow.
Cheshire blues sour to black. 
A stage is being scrubbed to frame the coordinates
With reunion.  Lens passing to lens
In the interchange of lives. Moments deepening
Into a life to deepen a life 
Beyond the capacity to witness or the compulsion 
To believe.

BAPTISM page 206



The tablets of admission have become 
The software of our becoming. 
Having squandered one, shall we squander both?
Oceans roar within us, or is it blood?
Having taught us to treasure it, we have shed it.
Oceans of blood, oceans of tears.
So much has elapsed to compute bifurcation.
The grace, the losses, the miles, the ecstasy.
The journey between sunrise and sunset.
Barley rivered where late the sweet birds sang.
The common witness of our faith and belonging.
Moments and stars whispering through the corridor...
The wish fast sorrows and the cogency of rain...
The epiphany gunning a world with ignition.
Come with me, stay with me awhile...

The door is open;

The door has always been open.

This way. Put down your fear.
Breathe. Be. Become.
Meridian dreams wallop the forest with awe. 
Oak deepens the continuo. 
Heat bashing suns caging us with August....
Searchlights of stars
Wander the perimeter, looking for strays.
Pearl wet clusters of hydrogen
Hush through a universe in the wet sweet chant 
Of rain. Deepen the programming to suture the
Observer to the observed. Insert the bar lines.
Sculpt the rhythm to the beat; to harness
A beat and a breath to harness a world 
With a life.

BAPTISM page 207



Deeper now; witness within.

Centuries carol in the Hilbert distance.
The pagan summaries of light unravel to equations.
Unravel as time in transmission to you.
The crystal of us. The frame.
The moment.

You.

Summer sparkles through the dogwood;
The breathy pine whispering through the
Rain lilies; the rapid brown grasses deflating to
Brown. Hush sweet showers savor the holly.
Boom. Anvils crash like ideas, or was it
Clouds? All is encoded within this moment.
Here, look; examine this moment.
This is your world. 
This is belief.

Light fissures the continuum.  
Planets hiss through the interludes...
This moment deepening between us,
Deepening us, in the aria and lens of this
Moment. Patience. 
A world will appear within a world.
A stage will be set like a time.
You will be given language to script
A dialogue. An age has been inserted within you
Like a message. Transmission has been
Intercepted, and decoded as you.

BAPTISM page 208



Advance probe.

A nanosecond of contact. 

Swell the wave with insight; collapse it
With images. Andantes and robins 
Nesting beyond light, phrasing a world into bar lines-
The dove white radiance captioning beauty with love. 
Image to eye in the voice of a moment. 
This moment. This page; this life.
A facet of the crystal.
Yet another point on yet another wave.

fast forward

Come with me, be with me, 

Deeper with this moment from crucifixion to love,

To come with me beyond history to
Eternity. Sing bright autumns choir into forever.
Hickory, sorrel and wine. The lush brown grasses
Part for us. Through this door with me,
Into this life, this road has taken both our lives.
From genesis to genesis.
The moment beyond and the moment within.
The ecstasy of a moment in the ecstasy of being. 
Just another valence, just another life....

We are almost there...

Just another valence, just another life.

BAPTISM page 209



Armadas of hope accrue like wishes.
Surely, one of them will turn into a life.
Make a palette; make a canvas; make a world...
Make a life.

Become what I could not.
Become what we dared to dream of,
Become
What we might have evolved into....
My scaffold is not high enough to reach my dreams.
As that moment when as that moment when
That searing heat preempted my eyes and eternity
Deafened in the synapse like a church bell.
This is the signal to receive the signal.
It is the song beyond hearing.
That moment within a moment when 
One moment of you winks out of time 
With one of me.

I am semite old. You are millennia new.
Bifurcation is this life.
Perception is composition.
The schemata of life is the vertebrae of choice.
Structure is scope. Knowledge is freedom.
I have learned what it means to learn.
Epochs catch in my cuffs.
Worlds fill my pockets like marbles.
Dazzles of robins choir in the afterglow.
The trees stand like witnesses.
And so do I.

BAPTISM page 210



Meeting here at last...

A life bonding with a life

To haunt the ages 

With life. But you now, but you...
Capturing time in a crystal of sleep...
But you...
With and within you,
This last time among the dreams and shipwrecks
And stories of a life; this last time,
With this last time diminishing with time...
Diminishing time with what records time. A frame
To gather all in the projection of its parts.
To gather; gathering what gathers...
Gathers in what might be hands,
Gathering hand to hand to gather a world,
Gathering light to gather ourselves. 
Gathering here, gathering what we have brought 
To this place, to this time,
Where you might find me,
I relinquish to you these rare planets
And time. I bequeath to you
My vision, my words, my love. I am
The messiah of my vision in the struggle of 
My body. You are the song of my belief.
Time has deepened into you, for
What has become unfolded has unfolded unto you.
It is we who experience correlation...
Who might share with me the ground that might 
Cover us, and the ground that would launch us,
To rivet the air with the shock of a breath
In the Brownian transmission to 
Destiny.

BAPTISM page 211



Look up; look out-

Seas part for our crossing.
Moments deepen into doors.
The metaphors of our becoming become 
A stitch in composition. 
Come, let us compose a field of redemption.
Let us deepen our calling beyond skin
To time. Let us deepen into what is within.
This moment between and among...
The hunt beyond sight for that presence
Within you who would love you. 

Look deeper, look deepest within...

Worlds carousel in the song to awakening,
In the song of our becoming and the prayer
Of our hope. Worlds pop like nuclei-
Flare like a signal- in the atom theatre
Of this moment and this life.
Come with me into the corridor...
Let us choir beyond faith to love....
We have sung beyond history to eternity...
We have outgrown nations. We are a people.
A specie among species.
We live together, die together,
Shout with joy and mourn with loss 
And script our lives with saints and pratfalls.
Look up; look out...
Crafts of clouds darken at sundown.
Awe whispers like light through the blue cracked heavens
And the sometime pizzicatos of red and 
Firecrackers of mauve. 
The image projected within is the transport to
Insight. Stellar bread crumbs of dreams
And the detonating confessions of clouds....
The moment captured is the canvas of a moment.

BAPTISM page 212



Deepest into insight a moment to sing....

Horizons hiss like cornfields. Showers
Of light drench us with awe. Concussions of
Moonlight volley through the sycamore like a
Summer night. Hiss. Bang.
We are nearer. Look now, this valence
Is carpeted with huckleberries, or are we
In that memory of that summer when geese
Filled the air with longing and sketches of
Woods deepened us with intimacy...?
Hiss. Again. 
Light slashes the fear cracked heavens.
Fire stalks the west. Hiss, bang.
Infinity has torched the corn. 
Crashes and volleys of crashes crash through a world
With light. Voracious conjurings of rain.
Blood crashing rain and the unforgiving anthems 
Of tympani. Rebirth requires death.
New lives replace the old.
The passage to genesis arcs the wave with
History. 

Ages coalesce in the vitreous.

Millennia streak through the optic nerve like
Moire patterns. Refracting assemblage.
An episode through the looking glass 
In the prism of 
A moment. This moment. Any moment. 
The flare of genesis in the birth song to light.
This deepening communion which is life.
In carriage and intent.
A song erupting into life in the birth cry
To freedom.

BAPTISM page 213



Deepest within is the circle of freedom.
Deepest is the resonance that yet might sing-

-I am yet I am; I rejoice to say I...
 I am an apostle of freedom, and I can 
 Sing, and I will sing beyond light to sing 
 For you, to sing a song of singing, 
 That you might share with me 
 The singing of it. -

I have measured time in distance from you.
I have exchanged infinity for a never ending story.
I am Joshua, once of your love and belonging.
The carbon aperture to the hydrogen mantra. 
A cosmic seed trapped in a body.
An age in search of an age.

Come alive in the holocaust of my arms...

Come alive in the field of my tenderness...

The ellipse has widened to include us.

Stars 
Chime for a nightlight in the terrarium of 
Our becoming. Concussions of silence shear 
Through the retina; their lease and oration
Hint like tears, stitching my vision to
Eternity. To my sight of you. 
That moment, that life, when light
Choired in the foliage and a halo of joy
Moored in a moment; that moment; the one
We inhabit now.

BAPTISM page 214



If time is human time,

It is not the unfolding of what makes a picture, but
The experience of being part of the picture.
So much
So much has been included for our becoming.
Rivers of corn swoon in the radiance.
Voices deepen the light into love.
Oleander, ally ally infree,
Deepen us for home; gentle us for what
A home might contain.
Green gashes of time seeding us for joy...
Moments opening like doors... 
That human touch of blue showering us 
With eternity. Pop, whoosh, 
The blue has deepened to scarlet... 
Wishes peeping like stars...
The voices deepening a landscape to dreamscape;
The voices deepening presence to belonging,
Deepening to faith in the late declining light.
Voices choir in the valence a song of becoming.
Orion peals beyond the magnolia.
The darkness receding to distance.
Countdown. A step, a life, an age.
Stage entrance. And I must go. 

Follow me.

The light is deeper, richer, here.
Stay with me; come with me, for
A moment, an hour or an age.
Believe with me to believe with me
A world in which to believe. 
Hibiscus mourn for you.
Treasures and bondings await the field of
Reunion. Your form closest to mine...
Our witness stitched to vision in the communion
Of a moment. This moment. Our moment.
This life with you.

BAPTISM page 215



And so we come to you.

You and but you.

I have carried you through lives, shown you
Facets of so many. I have shown you
Life and a continuum of lives.
My life no more than a matrix and a story...
For there would be you to conclude that story.
A world is destabilizing a valence;
Your world, our valence.
Will you abdicate?

Have I come this far, endured so much,

That 

When the message is finally liberated from the bottle,
It will reach no one, not even you.
It will light the fuse of knowledge, only to find
That the fuse is no longer believed in.
I have come for you, waited for you, 
Believed in you. The prop has garbled the message.
In this life, we prepare for life.
We commit to life.
As we might commit to people.
The polarity of fulfillment. 
An I and a you to make an us.

The ark of my discovery from you to you.

That motion in the silence which I know to be 
You. The correlation linking all, even
You. Her, she, you...
Coordinates of my becoming; you.
The treasure of a life I must never remember,
Never forget. 

BAPTISM page 216



One and one to make, not two, but one.

In witness to creation, 

In the summer of our skin.

A moment under light in the field of
Our becoming. Visions and stars crooning in our 
Eyes like hope. Riders of the light.
Comrades in vision. Companions in faith.
Reaching beyond darkness to light...
As when once we lay
Beneath the wrecks and struggles of an age
And dreamed a nation in the image of our
Love; when light trumpeted morning
In the shell of our awakening, and we were 
One,

As we are now.

Mirror proud in the triumph of a life...
My haftora is rapture, my blessing is you.
I am the atom Adam guest at your thighs...
Coercing breath, flooding your skin with exhaustion-
Dreaming through the interstices of these moments
A life, a destiny and a home.
The sing dazzle light nests within you.
The conjugate attribute of my love and belonging.
The light nourished in your eyes.
That deeper correlation than love.
The warmth that still sings of bodies, 
And of lives lived beneath the exorbitant moon.
Faces. I remember the faces. I
Remember a desert and a cross; remembering
What was once, was you.

BAPTISM page 217



A life that might presage a life.

A life retrieved from bread crumbs of atoms...

From fugues of worlds conjuring prophecy
From memory. Countdown to reunion.
The probabilities converge at intersection.
A life and a life in witness to life.
A moment. You. A moment. Us.
Deeper beyond light is the universe of 
Our belonging. Deeper into the valence 
Probabilities converge at choice. The signal elicits
Response. A human response to human belief.

The path of my becoming reprises 
What I have become. Turning and turning through 
Millennia destined light, becoming and believing
In the ransom of this life, to witness
Love in the baptism to reunion; making 
Half a world whole.

To begin this life again,
To begin life,
To begin with this life
A life of two lives; giving and trusting
In the commons of faith; a life in devotion to
Life. Much as Much as when
When I held you...
When we were children, when I knew
The pathos of your arms and the tryst of 
Our lives, when love sanctioned being
In the nova of your thighs; when love beckoned
Twice in a tragedy of love, and the 
Star blind light disappeared 
Between us.


BAPTISM page 218



How I might have held you in the 
Bloom sweet light. How the resonance of our
Becoming became the radiance of my belief...
Your voice, your form, my arms harvesting yours.
The miles, the miles, which have become centuries,
Began with a home and a brucha and a dream.
It has now spiralled within you, 
In a helix of faith, to carol in such light 
As faith is made from.

Calling you,

Transmitting the song of our remembrance,

To call you once more before the coming of 
An age; calling 
Through solstices of baptism and love
To reach you with insight and capture you
With prayer. Moving with light, 
Moving under light to move into light.
As in that life in which I beheld you,
As in that life that swallowed me into light... 
Gashes of skies and the commons of my fields...
The light aching in my throat like destiny.
That moment which was ours, until
We dissolved into a moment.
The door you opened, the door into which 
I followed. White breathless skin; that voice
Lost to the ages; still at last in the stillness.
Mouth upturned to god and to me...
And to a future baptizing faith with love,
But without you...
In the commons of our hands and the splendor of
Our dreams, when love took you from me, 
And a world whispered through your breath 
And our lives, when 
Genesis replaced genesis with genesis.

BAPTISM page 219



Let us drown our anger with sobs and pare light
To the fluency of our hands. That we might touch
In the shock of awakening; in the shock and
Breath of this life; holding moment to moment 
In the foreclosure of a journey; journeying 
Backward to receive the future.

Come to me, come with me

Now,

A new phase shall begin.
New life, new lives and a new world.
Come, it's been within you all along.
Wonder bright forests, archangels probing the twilight
Like fireflies; the canvas streaking the retina
With autumn scented wishes, the elegant pathos
Masking loneliness with solitude; the 
Poignant afternoons probing light with ecstasy...
To hold you near, to hold you past,
Holding you beyond the theatre of a life
To hold you beyond life
Through quantum probabilities of reunion and
Time.

Each life 

Nearer to that which might, at last,

Outlast the miles, the years, the distance
Programmed into me. 

BAPTISM page 220



I am and we are the story of which 
So many stories are made. You are what is
Left of us, of me. In this valence, in
My valence, autmun hungry dusk banquets
Ardor with falling mists of arbor rich greens
And tears of dew, and the plangent wonder
Of huckleberries. Distance is not what separates,
But the harmony. Eyes scanning the silence...
Eyes smearing the light with tears...
Bearing the fables of blood and wine...
But searching for you, hunting for you,
As in that unforgettable moment 
When 
Sobs filled the air like regret and kiddish 
Became kaddish, and a spear ruptured the millennia   
Like a membrane, and the song which
I believed to be life
Poured down my side like destiny; and
I was alone.

A moment of awareness which became a world.

The song that became transmission.

Oxygen bright in the amnesia of waking,
Worlds fission in the oracle of a moment.
Moments hyphening like worlds.
What age is this?
The noise. Is it mine?
The screams of one age resonate in the 
Birth cry of another. Out, alive, among them...
A moment beyond and into....

BAPTISM page 221



It is so bright here; the shapes so new...

I had forgotten.

A moment through a door, an interlude before time...
Come with me, follow me...
The skies last forever and the corn sways with
Light. The radiance, the radiance inhibits breathing...
So bright, so new....
The dates sharpen our palates with nostalgia.
Peaches swoon for our craving.
The faces shine with love.
They greet me now, not with tears
But with welcome. The scent reaching till morning...
The lives sparkling among the water lights
And our faith in light. The scent, the taste,
The wonder. Heat dapper suns crave the juice of rivers.
Forests bellow, and the bleach white hiss of grasses
Whispers about us, as though it were
A cosmic wind. And we are home.
Home.

Sh'ma Yisroael

Home, and the miracle of bread,
And the miracles which make bread;
The gingerbread scent of gingerbread dreams
In a gingerbread life. Home. Crooning bright skies
Lashing the distance with hope. The wheat tarnished
Glow of my hands. My arms overloaded with stars
And with you. Home. Quickly now, through the door...
The light bastes us with longing.
Jonquils trumpet the rose.
Glories of asphodel christen our waking...
Our eyes sharing the distance;
Your body shaped with life to make a life.

BAPTISM page 222



Holding you in my arms in a vision of genesis...

Holding life in our arms by the passing of
The moon; struggling together to struggle together...
Mirror proud in the triumph of a life.
Shoulder to shoulder in the passage through light.
Your body accenting mine...
The laughing radiance of your voice
Sighing into centuries to frame a world with
A moment. Body to body,
Capturing time in the truancy of a kiss... 
Body to body,
Conjuring light from the textures of our bodies...
Body to body,
Our bodies closing like hemispheres...
Deepening the circle of light to the radiance 
Of a circle.

Singing to sing to sing of you...

Gathering what must be gathered 
Into the shape of meaning that gathers 
And has meaning. Almost. You are nearly
To almost. The arrow of time has motion
Through meaning. Come alive, come alive with me,
Beyond this world is a valence of worlds.
Beyond what we view of us is what composes us.
Perception is a dialogue.
Belief is the warrant of a lens.
Beyond the citadel of our witness is the preamble
To our discovery. Beyond this sand lies
The promised land. Come with me. The journey
Has been a long one. The barrier is just 
Beyond sight. So much is here to view and 
To treasure. Midnight ripens beyond appeal.
Beyond our needs is the blue encompassing our needs.
Beyond the vicissitudes of meaning is that which
Defines meaning, and defines you.

BAPTISM page 223



Listen; watch; believe;
A hush of pine summons us to awe.
Synopses and trapezoids dazzle us like acrobats.
Eruptions of shape have convinced us they are trees.
A moment of blue, a divinity of evergreen...
Brash swift songs of radiance.
Shouts of days carol in the whiteness...
A thumbprint of time, a moment in a life.
Crosscurrents of stars. A pocketful of planets.
A world can cleanse us of worlds.
A life can cleanse lives.
A moment can cleanse a life, if
You come with me to come to me.

Look now; 

There is not so much acid in this air.
Creation has fed its children with imagination.
Light harvests us with light. With meaning.
Twilight has incinerated the birch.
The elm mourn like November. The hush swift
Grasses 
Yearn into wind. Anatomically, atomistically,
They call to you, for they lack you,
As they lack completeness without you.
Look now; catch the rhythm of it. Catch
The downbeat. Wish fast tunes of wisteria.
Bar lines of crickets; codas of nightingales.
A ferris wheel of seasons.
A moment of winter amid the breathy pine.
A catch in the breath for a compass.
Linger a moment. Episodes of moons curtain us
With sleep. Exhalations of stars; the deepening
Embassy of pine. A moment among moments.
A moment for moments.

BAPTISM page 224



A moment in correlation. 

This moment with you.

Deft E flats of willows whoosh through the starlight
As though a moment were a world. Listen. 
Chorales of whippoorwills mourn into twilight.
The sudden stillness of the oak.
The song sweet grasses lashing the wind with poignance.
Can you feel it? The taste, the wonder,
The salt of stars savoring my lips...
That moment which is mine when all there is
Is what is beyond me.

Come with me, view with me...

Light garnishes the clover.
Clusters of worlds balloon like grapes.
A moment beyond; a moment into....
Movement under light.
Horizons arc to deliverance, or
Was that a rainbow? Wildflowers haunt us.
Rush brown grasses river through the heat...
The textures deepen to twilight. 
The movement, the color, 
The wonder.

The door.

Will you enter?

BAPTISM page 225



Here now,

Come, take my hands; we are almost home.
Flowers sparkle like gingerbread crumbs.
The radiance is deafening.
Eighth notes pout through the elm...
Butterflies croon like wishes.
Ring bright shouts of joy crown us with
Light. Look, a day has risen like a wish...
Like a man, like an age.

Come alive to be alive...

Come in under this light with me.

Come alive to the divinity within you...

Awake to the cosmos percolating within.
Come alive to be alive; be alive 
To the chalk sweet blue and the appledown green...
The lush gasping forests that weep for your
Commitment. Becoming to become the act of being.
Stand proud to stand with me to stand before 
Light, and the cosmic interface with eternity. 
Come with me, come, lush raiments of days
Assuage pain with longing, and the moon bright trails
That fed our childhood feed us now with nostalgia...
The cosmic melodies racing through your hair
Like freedom; the clarity surpassing sight
In correlation to forever, in
The passion and forbearance and the vulnerability
Of a life.

BAPTISM page 226



Come with me under this light, for I would
Baptize you with light. With fields of caring 
And fields of communion, the field of my life
Transcends a life. Cartwheels of ages and
Ferris wheels of lives, the days wad up into
Memory; the years accrue like coral.
So much has come to pass to bring us here.
Bringing us back to bring us home.
To bring each in concert with each...
Human radii of an inhuman circumference.
Can't you feel it? The heat, the wonder,
The exhausting solace of light.
Breath warm, horizon near.

Beyond this door, there are no longer doors.

Beyond what we believe to be doors, 

That final door is us.

Let the ages daavin through the half life of
Our faith: let the rare moon voyages
Chill us with awe. Come dance with me
To make a hora of belonging, 
To fill the light with joy. Flowers 
Sing for us; a canopy of light for a star....
The valence is effulgent with meaning.
Pouts of May cushion the radiance with warmth.
Apples crunch like stars. How cold. How bright.
How new. Light sings through the corridor.
Impatiens wander among roses.
Primroses dally. These rare indigo smudges 
Must be violets. The common dimension of our harmony.
Reception receptor vision 
The dimensional commons of our harmony and faith.

BAPTISM page 227



Sh'ma Yisroael

Let us evolve beyond Israel to Canaan, and thence
To stars. Let us anoint the miles 
With patience, and the salt bright tears 
Of farewell with love, for divinity is 
Not in the stars, but in the Hilbert space 
Within you.

Ginger sweet days chisel us with light.
Mimosa bloom for us now as they would
Bloom for our heirs. Sing penny birds
Chatter through the infinite; the stars so far,
But you so near. Wood doves
Shelter us with belonging. Summer coffins
The marsh grass with memory. An age 
Glows 
Beneath the ages, among the diffident iris
And the bashful bougainvillaea.

Love is as near as a wish.

Love is as simple as you are.

Tomorrow is a mantra in a grail of yesterdays.
Tomorrows wink like ferris wheels.
Choices and wishes and cotton candy and
Love. Voices sparkle like home...
The kiss bright scent of forever...
The telling laugh through the arbor. 
Apostrophes of orioles sing through the twilight. 
Stars beckon us onward, and the rush deep grasses 
Keeping us with love. But look now...

BAPTISM page 228



This is dirt, not sand.

There are no fields to tend, but only
Fields to nurture. The light shines for all.
Beyond the world of our horizon is a horizon
Of worlds. Only you can say no, as I
Might have said no, but now, but who now
Cannot live without yes. Or you.
Each is the canticle for all,
Choiring in lives to choir the probabilities...
An assembly choiring into a specie-
Factoring into correlation to factor into you.
Listen, but listen now...
Eternity chants through the haze plush distance...
Voicing lives like children, like history.
From neutron to neutron, from helix to matrix,
Electron bright in the cosmic song to reunion-
From assembly to assembly, from life to life....

Be with me, come with me,

Follow me,

I have conjured a life out of symbols and stars.
I have just enough ashes to make a phoenix.
My vision is the dome of my knowledge.
I am what I believe.
Open my eyes, but shield my sight,
Rebirth is the product of our eyes.
Creation's creation continuing creation.
Accounting for you, accounting for us.
Let us have a human victory in this age, for
You are history. You are the army of the republic.
Your destiny is yours.
What you can behold you can become.
Identity is commitment.
If you would look for a hero,
Look in the mirror.

BAPTISM page 229



Come alive; come alive with me...
Come alive in the loaned treasury of your skin.
Become what you have inherited.
Action is autobiography.
Choice is destiny.
We are what we permit ourselves to see.
We are what shall emerge from the corridor.
Fully human in the human ecstasy of skin.
Laughing, hoping and chanting, remembering what was 
To taste the sweetness of what is now.
Life in polarity to life.
I, you, a concept of us.
A belief, a sense of place for rootless children
Of a nomad nation and a nomad race, and
A nomadic specie. A matrix to fulfillment.
I am the martyr of your arms in the minyon 
Of eternity. Israel catches in my throat like 
The sound of your name, like home.

Imagine me. 

Imagine us.

How

gethsemane  We would launder our dreams in the 
Garden fresh light, spool the tips and 
Parings of our lives in pomegranates, carpentry
And kisses. Nesting under the wild bravado of
Stars, I dreamt of a kingdom, when all I had
Was a kingdom. I have surrendered my life
For a voice and a message
To build a nation from the sorrow of my loins...
Harvesting eternity with the pathos of a smile 
And the ecstasy of a life; with death only for me, 
A memory for a future, a dream for an epitaph.

BAPTISM page 230



Sh'ma Yisroael, Hear O Israel...

Let the centuries drown in tears, let fear
Find absolution in love. Redeem me; redeem
My name, my world, my specie...
Allow us the togetherness to achieve polarity.
I have never asked anything for me...
Only give me this,
Give me voice to mend hatred with a song;
Inherit my children with love, that
They might be prophets to the generations 
Yet unborn; chanting in horas of belonging,
Shouting and dancing through the brightness
To whirl this globe with joy
And find salvation 
In the fusion white radiance of 
Peace.


















