                              PEOPLE OF THE BIBLE



                                   CAIAPHAS




MAT 26:2  Ye know that after two days is the feast of the passover, and the Son
of man is betrayed to be crucified.  

MAT 26:3  Then assembled together the chief priests, and the scribes, and the
elders of the people, unto the palace of the high priest, who was called
Caiaphas,  

MAT 26:57  And they that had laid hold on Jesus led him away to Caiaphas the
high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled.  

MAT 26:63  But Jesus held his peace, And the high priest answered and said unto
him, I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be the
Christ, the Son of God.  

MAT 26:64  Jesus saith unto him, Thou hast said: nevertheless I say unto you,
Hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and
coming in the clouds of heaven.  

MAT 26:65  Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He hath spoken
blasphemy; what further need have we of witnesses? behold, now ye have heard his
blasphemy.  

LUK 3:2  Annas and Caiaphas being the high priests, the word of God came unto
John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness.  

JOH 11:49  And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same
year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all,  

JOH 11:50  Nor consider that it is expedient for us, that one man should die for
the people, and that the whole nation perish not.  

JOH 11:51  And this spake he not of himself: but being high priest that year, he
prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation;  

JOH 18:13  And led him away to Annas first; for he was father in law to
Caiaphas, which was the high priest that same year.  

JOH 18:14  Now Caiaphas was he, which gave counsel to the Jews, that it was
expedient that one man should die for the people.  

JOH 18:24  Now Annas had sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest.  

JOH 18:28  Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment: and it
was early; and they themselves went not into the judgment hall, lest they should
be defiled; but that they might eat the passover.  

ACT 4:1  And as they spake unto the people, the priests, and the captain of the
temple, and the Sadducees, came upon them,  

ACT 4:2  Being grieved that they taught the people, and preached through Jesus
the resurrection from the dead.  

ACT 4:3  And they laid hands on them, and put them in hold unto the next day:
for it was now eventide.  

ACT 4:4  Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed; and the number of
the men was about five thousand.  

ACT 4:5  And it came to pass on the morrow, that their rulers, and elders, and
scribes,  

ACT 4:6  And Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and
as many as were of the kindred of the high priest, were gathered together at
Jerusalem.  

ACT 4:7  And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, By what power, or
by what name, have ye done this?  

ACT 4:8  Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of
the people, and elders of Israel,  

ACT 4:9  If we this day be examined of the good deed done to the impotent man,
by what means he is made whole;  

ACT 4:10  Be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the
name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the
dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole.  

ACT 4:11  This is the stone which was set at nought of you builders, which is
become the head of the corner.  

ACT 4:12  Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name
under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.  

ACT 4:13  Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that
they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; and they took knowledge of
them, that they had been with Jesus.  

ACT 4:14  And beholding the man which was healed standing with them, they could
say nothing against it.  

ACT 4:15  But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they
conferred among themselves,  

ACT 4:16  Saying, What shall we do to these men? for that indeed a notable
miracle hath been done by them is manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem;
and we cannot deny it.  

ACT 4:17  But that it spread no further among the people, let us straitly
threaten them, that they speak henceforth to no man in this name.  

ACT 4:18  And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach
in the name of Jesus.  

ACT 4:19  But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be right in
the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye.  

ACT 4:20  For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.  

ACT 4:21  So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding
nothing how they might punish them, because of the people: for all men glorified
God for that which was done.  

ACT 4:22  For the man was above forty years old, on whom this miracle of healing
was shewed.  




                        ==============================


                                      THE

                       <E>LECTRONIC <L>IBRARY E<X>CHANGE


                                P.O. BOX 19454

                            DENVER, COLORADO  80219


                              BBS:  303-935-6323

                             FIDONET:  1:104/810.0

                           THENETWORK:  8:7703/11.0


                                  End Of File
