

                CHARISMATIC/PENTECOSTAL MOVEMENT
                    WITHIN THE BODY OF CHRIST

     In today's body of believers there is phenomena occurring that
is causing a great deal of concern.  The phenomena is that of the
Charismatic or Pentecostal movement.  The terms come from, in the
case of Charismatic, the Greek term CHARISMA which means "gift", or
from the actions that took place on the day of Pentecost.  In
specific, the matter of speaking in tongues.  The polarization of
acceptance or rejection of the issue has caused many churches to
split, and at the same time caused many churches to become alive
and literally "on fire" for the Kingdom of Jesus Christ.

     First of all, it is important that we acknowledge that this
report will not resolve the issue to the body of Christ.  This
teaching is prayerfully dedicated to the hope that we will provide
insights into what the Bible has to say about the matter, and to
"prod" each person to "study to make thyself approved."  In short,
to have each of you seek your answer from God's Word and not from
any human of this age.

     Certain precepts are necessary in discussing the matter of
speaking in tongues. These are:

(1)  We must take the words of Jude 3 as THE premise for our
investigation into this matter, and I quote: "Beloved, when I gave
all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, it was
needful for me to write unto you, and exhort you that you should
earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the
saints."

     It is important to look at the Greek (which, alone, is the
inspired version) word THE preceding the word FAITH.  The term
points to the ONE and ONLY faith.  It is clear that Jude is saying
that there IS NO OTHER FAITH.  Other references (Galations 1:23 and
1 Timothy 4:1) also reflect this SINGULAR and EXCLUSIVE faith.  Now
the really important term to look at is ONCE FOR ALL.  The Greek
term (HAPAX) is a term that means "done for all time with lasting
results; never in need of repetition."  The term DELIVERED, in
Greek, is what the Greeks call an aorist passive participle,
indicating a singular act completed in the past with no continuing
element - FINAL and COMPLETE action.  Jude is telling us that
NOTHING needs to be added to THE FAITH that was delivered ONCE for
ALL of the Body of Christ.

(2)  The basis for any investigation MUST be to compare what we
know against the Bible.  The cults have always based their activity
on the basis of "additional" or "New revelation" from God and, in
many cases, additional scripture.  The Bible, through Jude is
telling us that ANY claims of "NEW" or "ADDITIONAL" revelation are
to be rejected as false.  Christ's own words are to look at those
who claim to be sheep, yet are "ravenous wolves."  John tells us
they are the antichrist and the spirit of antichrist.  We must
accept the Bible as God's Word and accept His Word as final
authority, regardless of what we desire to believe to the contrary. 
Our "feelings" MUST be measured according to the spiritual
yardstick of SCRIPTURE and SOLA SCRIPTURA (Scripture only).

(3)  The test of anything calling itself Christian is not its
significance or its success or its power, although these make it
more important to test them.  The test is truth. 

(4)  We are not going to deal with the issue of what a believer
does in private in his/her communication with God.  The only issue
that the Bible deals with in this area is the PUBLIC observation of
this Gift of God. 

                 HISTORY OF THE MODERN MOVEMENT

     Let me give you a scenario for a service on a certain Sunday:
You sit with a congregation of intense worshipers.  The zealous
singing is punctuated by cries of praise and fervent prayers. 
Suddenly the person next to you stands up and begins to speak in
rapid syllables that seem completely foreign to any language you
have ever heard.  The cryptic message is echoed by many other
members of the congregation, but in a quiet whispered manner.  Then
another person stands and gives a message or "prophesy" in a first
person manner as though God Himself is speaking.  He says something
like "Thus sayeth the Lord.  If you, my people, will confess your
sins, and seek my path, and call on my name, you will be blessed
beyond measure."

     Then one by one, various members of the congregation are
standing and giving similar messages or speaking in the rapid
syllables as before, while others begin to sing praises to the
Lord.      

     Does this sound familiar to you?  Have you attended a similar
meeting?  The above is a narrative on a meeting that was conducted
by a man named Montanus for his followers in the SECOND century
A.D.  Montanus taught that EACH and EVERY believer was a means for
special revelation.  To "prove" this power, they exercised dramatic
gifts of the Spirit including "prophesy" and "tongues," which
Montanus claimed were prophetic signs of the times.  He even taught
that the New Jerusalem would descend and rest on his village in
Asia Minor DURING HIS LIFETIME!  It was the claim of the Montanists
that their age was the "Age of the Spirit" and that in this "new
age" the Holy Spirit spoke through the mouths of the members of
Montanus' group, each of which were prophets or prophetesses.

     Montanus intimidated Christians in his claims that the church
was comprised of only two groups: (1) "Spiritual Christians" and
(2) "Carnal Christians."  Needless to say the "spiritual"
classification applied ONLY to those who followed Montanus.  He
claimed that the "carnal" ones were those who had only their "dead
letter" of the Scriptures.

     On many issues the Montanists were orthodox in doctrine;
However, they were such a divisive force that the Council of
Constantinople branded Montanus and his followers as heretic.

     Larry Christenson, a major leader of the Charismatic movement,
in his book ASPECTS OF PENTECOSTAL-CHARISMATIC ORIGINS and in the
chapter PENTACOSTALISM'S FORGOTTEN FORERUNNER even claims the
Montanist movement as part of the Charismatic tradition!

     The "new age" for today began in 1900 on New Year's Eve at 7
P.M. when a young Bible student by the name of Agnes N. Ozman asked
Charles Parham to lay hands on her as shown in scripture and pray
over her. When he had done so, Miss Ozman began to speak in rapid
syllables which neither of them could understand.  This story is a
key historical moment in the pentecostal movement, and the
charismatics refer to it as a key to their movement.  The above
statement that "neither could understand" is in the book THEY SPEAK
WITH OTHER TONGUES by John Sherrill.  It is important, and I will
show why, later in this report.

     To summarize, the manifestation of speaking in tongues is
traceable throughout the old testament and the new, with special
emphasis on the BOOK OF ACTS and the matter of the preaching of the
Apostles in tongues.  Before looking into that, we should do a
little more Greek grammar.

     The Greeks used two words for tongues.  "GLOSSA" primarily
means human language when used in Scripture.  The Septuagint uses
the term 30 times to specifically refer to human language. 
"DIALEKTOS" is the other term used from which we receive our word
dialects.  The meaning is clear in both words, understandable
speaking. 

     Now let us turn to Acts 2 and read the chapter.  In verse 4 we
are told that those chosen by God to speak for him "were filled
with the Holy Spirit and began to speak with other tongues, and the
Spirit was giving them utterance."  NOTE the statement, "other
tongues."  The term is not UNKNOWN tongues - it is OTHER tongues. 

     Then the question is, why would God want them to speak in a
tongue not their own?  Look at the next two verses:

      "Now there were Jews living in Jerusalem, devout men, from
every nation under heaven.  And when this sound occurred, the
multitude came together, and were bewildered, because they were
each one hearing them speak in his own language."

               Many people were in Jerusalem from all over the Roman empire.
They spoke many languages.  God wanted THEM to hear HIS message.
Reading on :

     "And they were amazed and marveled, saying, 'Why, are not all
these who are speaking Galileans?'  "And how is it that we each
hear them in our own language to which we were born?  Parthians and
Medes and Elamites, and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and
Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the
districts of Libya around Cyrene, and visitors from Rome, both Jews
and proselytes, Cretans and Arabs - We hear them in our own tongues
speaking of the mighty deeds of God." (verses 7 through 11).

     Four points should be made about these verses:

     (1)  They each heard them in their own language. (verse 6)
     (2)  They each hear in their own language. (verse 8)
     (3)  They heard them in their own tongue.
     (4)  Spoke the mighty deeds of God

     Due primarily to the fact that the Scripture was incomplete,
God needed to utilize a supernatural basis for getting the message
of Jesus out to the world.  God chose 15 languages to bestow his
initial message upon mankind.  This is confirmed in the recognition
of the gathering that the words spoke of the "great deeds of God." 
A result of this outpouring of the Holy Spirit was the unification
and encouragement of the body.

     The next verses used by the Charismatics are found in I
Corinthians 12 to 14.  It is interesting to note that very little
is even mentioned in the Bible on the matter of tongues until we
get to Corinthians and then it is because the Corinthians are
abusing the gift!  Corinth was known for its do-your-own-thing
philosophy and carnality.  The church at Corinth was no exception,
and the problem became so grave that they asked for Paul to step in
and give apostolic resolution as acknowledged in I Corinthians
12:1.  Paul then lists the gifts of the Holy Spirit and (as always
found in the Bible) lists the gift of tongues LAST (it is sometimes
found next to last). 

     Throughout the remainder of 12 and 13, Paul enforces the major
thrust of LOVE and its importance above all other outward acts of
the believers.  In chapter 14, Paul gets down to the specifics of
tongues within the local body of believers.  He actually sets up
the principles for the use of this gift.  In verse 26 Paul begins
to lay out the principles:

                     VERSE 26 .. EDIFICATION

     "What is the outcome then, brethren?  When you assemble, each
one has a psalm, has a teaching, has a revelation, has a tongue,
has an interpretation.  Let all things be done for edification."
               Before the Bible was completed, God needed to use His gifted
messengers to carry His message to the people.  The people had to
wait for this message to be carried by these messengers.  Some of
the messengers were "prophets" in that they spoke the message of
God without verbal error, while some spoke in a tongue while
another spoke the interpretation to further increase the
edification of the body. The very word edification means to remove
confusion!

     Paul states that some had a psalm, another a truth to be
taught, another a revelation from God.  This is all at a time when
there was not a completed Scripture.  However; ALL THINGS were to
be for the edification of ALL the believers.

                  VERSES 27 and 28 .. PROCEDURE

     "If anyone speaks in a tongue, it should be by two or at most
three, and each in turn, and let one interpret; But if there is no
interpreter, let him keep silent in the church; and let him speak
to himself and to God."

     Paul is explicit.  Paul leaves no room for misunderstanding. 
Paul lays it out the way it HAS TO BE to BE OF GOD.  There are to
be no more than two persons who speak in tongues - not two at a
time.  Paul does allow an exception that there could be ONE
additional person that could speak in a tongue, but the context
would indicate that this would be rare.  Then Paul specifies ORDER. 
The two (or three) cannot speak all at once.  They are to take
turns.  First one then another and, sometimes, a third.  Paul tells
us in verse 40 that ALL things are to be done properly and in an
orderly fashion.

                         INTERPRETATION

     Verse 27 says "... and let ONE interpret.." Verse 28
continues, in context, "But if there is no interpreter, let him
keep silent in the church; and let him speak to himself and to
God."

     Paul, again, makes it perfectly clear.  ONE INDIVIDUAL is to
do the interpreting.  The Greek text makes that very clear.  It is
the word for one single individual from several.  Paul states that
ONE person with the ability to interpret would interpret for the
two or three speakers who spoke in a tongue.  The two or three
different speakers but the ONE interpreter!  Paul is giving Godly
restraint to the exercise of these gifts.  A clearly defined plan
for the building up of each member of the congregation.

                    VERSE 33 .. NO CONFUSION

     "For God is not a God of confusion but of peace, as in all the
churches of the saints."
               It goes without saying that where you find confusion and
disharmony you do not find God.  Look around you.  God, in
Scripture tells us in Romans that we KNOW that God exists from the
creation of the world and all that it contains.  Is there any
confusion in God's creation?  God spins universes through space in
such precision that we mortals set our quartz watches BY THE
MOVEMENT OF THE PLANETS! Scripture tells us that God is not a god
of confusion - this leaves only the "god of this age" who could
author confusion.

                       VERSE 36 .. DIGNITY

     "Was it from you that the word of God first went forth? Or has
it come to you only?"

     Look at the words.  Do you see what Paul was saying?  We,
today, would probably say something like, "Do you think that you
have a corner on truth, or that God himself started from your
midst?"  It would seem that the Corinthians actually thought or
behaved as though the whole message of Christ began with them!  It
would also seem that the Corinthians were acting as though ONLY
they had the truth.  Let's look at the rebuke Paul administered in
verses 37 and 38:

     "If anyone thinks he is a prophet or spiritual, let him
recognize that the things which I write to you are the Lord's
commandment.  But if he does not recognize this, he is not
recognized."

     Paul is literally saying that what he has said, and is saying,
are of God, and if they don't agree, then their opinion is not to
be considered!  A strong rebuke; but now look further:

     "Therefore, my brethren, desire earnestly to prophesy, and do
not forbid to speak in tongues.  But let all things be done
properly and in an orderly manner."

     The gift of tongues was vital for God to get his word out to
the world in as short a time as possible, but it was to be held in
check through the function of the Creator of the universe and his
way of doing everything in order.  All things of the Body of Jesus
Christ are to be meaningful, sensible, proper (I do not use the
term stuffy) and orderly.  What God does literally "drips" of
dignity.

     We need now to look at one other major facet of the
Charismatic movement, and this is their claim that they experience
a "Baptism of the Holy Spirit" unique from any other baptism (and
claimed by many to be the ONLY confirmation that they are saved)
and unique in that it is confirmed through the speaking in tongues
and that all believers "to be spiritual" must seek this gift and
confirmation.  Believers and preachers who do not seek or find as
noted are accused of failing to preach the "FULL GOSPEL."

     Writer Robert Dalton states the matter for the Charismatics
rather well when he writes: "This experience is not for a select
few, but for all who desire it and are willing to pay the price." 

     At the very same time Ralph M. Riggs writes: "Seekers ...
after the Baptism in the Spirit should always remember that this
experience is also called 'The Gift of the Holy Ghost.'  Gifts are
not earned or won by choice or merit.  Gifts cannot be forced from
the giver ... The Holy Spirit is a gracious ... God-sent Gift, and
we receive Him by faith and by faith alone."

     Let's look at what God tells us in His Word and not look
further at the writing of man.  In I Corinthians 12:13 Paul
explained what being "of the body of Christ" means:

     "For by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether
Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free, and we were all made to
drink of one Spirit."

     The word "by" in the verse can be translated "at", "by",
"with" and some do give the meaning as "in."  However; the context
of Greek words such as "EN" as used here, is dependent on the case
ending of the words that follow the preposition.  To be accurate
and in context with the Greek, we should say "by" or "with."  Under
no construct of the Greek could the word be used as "in" and the
use of such is not found in the Bible.  The term "Baptism of the
Holy Spirit" is NEVER found in the greek or any of its accepted
translations.  Not one reference exists where the Holy Spirit did
any baptizing!

     Matthew 3:11 finds John the Baptist telling the Sadducees and
the Pharisees about the "one who would baptize you in the Holy
Spirit and fire .. and will gather his wheat into the barn, but
will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire."  John is telling
about the fire of judgment that will be wrought by Jesus Christ -
not the Holy Spirit. Charismatics wish to imply that the Holy
Spirit would come to baptize with fire such as was done on
pentecost; However, this is not the case as John was telling us
that there will be two kinds of people in the world - those who are
baptized with the Holy Spirit and those who will not and will be
cast into the fires of Hell. (John 5:22 Mark 1:7-8, Luke 3:16)

     Peter in Acts 2:33 states: "Therefore having been exalted to
the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the
promise of the Holy Spirit, He has poured forth this which you both
see and hear."

     Again, Christ is the Baptizer - not the Holy Spirit - but with
the Holy Spirit.  The Holy Spirit NOWHERE in SCRIPTURE does any
baptizing.
               The claims of the Charismatics and the Pentecostals as to the
fact that they were baptized by Christ when they accepted him is
seldom disputed.  What they do say is that at a later date, "The
Holy Spirit baptized them" and this is not possible as shown by
God's own words.  Christ is always THE baptizing person of the
Trinity. 

     Paul's whole emphasis of I Corinthians 12:12 and 13 is that
ALL CHRISTIANS ARE BAPTIZED WITH ONE SPIRIT INTO ONE BODY.  WE ARE
ALL ONE BODY, POSSESSING ONE LIFE SOURCE, INDWELT WITH ONE CHRIST. 
There is no "limbo" declared in scripture where one comes to the
saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and then is yet unsaved until the
experience of a "second" baptism.  How can one be a Christian and
yet not part of the Body of Christ?

     Larry Christenson states: "Beyond conversion, beyond assurance
of salvation, beyond having the Holy Spirit, there is a baptism
with the Holy Spirit.  It might not make sense to our human
understanding any more than it made sense for Jesus to be Baptized
by John." 

     I have never had a problem in understanding why Jesus was
baptized by John.  Jesus' entire life was one of obedience to the
Father, and the Father clearly wants each of us to be baptized, and
Jesus led the example.

     Baptism as shown in the 13th verse of I Corinthians 12 is the
greek term "BAPTIZO" meaning spiritual immersion.  Baptism is a
spiritual reality that brings the believer into a vital union with
Christ.  To be baptized by the Holy Spirit means that CHRIST places
us, by means of the Spirit, into the unity of His body and gives us
a common life principle that connects us with everyone else who
believes in Christ.  Baptism with the Spirit makes ALL believers
ONE.

     It is imperative that each of us look in the Scriptures to
find the answers to the claims of the Charismatics and
Pentecostals.  In the vast majority of cases, you will find that
the "movement" or congregation fails to adhere to the principles
set forth by Paul. Dissension, confusion, superiority and other
man-made features are usually the rule.  Extra-biblical revelation
is not of God.

     Several "brothers" of my own are charismatic and are very
godly men of high standards and dignity of the Spirit.  I am
convinced that God's gifts are still manifest in each of the
categories mentioned in the Bible and that each believer is given
a gift or gifts upon his baptism into His body.  It may take time
for each of us to realize what those gifts are, but I am certain
that we each do have them.  The gift of tongues, in too many times
in my own life, has been demonstrated to be valid and uplifting in
accordance with what Scripture says.  I have noted the speaking of
tongues with an interpreter telling me what was said.  I have heard
revelations from God come from these gifted men, but in each case
they were for exhortation or the consolation or uplifting of
someone else in the gathering.  I have also been subjected to
"prophesies" that were claimed to be from God and were never
fulfilled.  This is not of God.  When my spirit becomes troubled,
I immediately look to see if Satan is trying to keep me from
something. If it checks out that Satan is not involved, then I look
to God for guidance as to what I am troubled about.

     I have seen preachers throw their Bibles on the floor, and
dance and shout rapid syllables at the audience, without anyone
knowing what he said or was doing.  The amount of confusion proved
to me that God was not in it.

     We have many texts that have shown that experience is not a
valid basis for testing anything dealing with God.  God's word is
our only basis for testing anything.

     Keep the command found in I Peter 3:15: "ALWAYS be ready to
give an answer to EVERYONE asking you, a reason for the hope that
lies within you."

     Peter is making an assumption here that is very important.  He
is assuming that you are living a life that will make people want
to know why you are different!  He is commanding each of us to
present to ANYONE (and everyone) that asks, whether they be
intellectual, atheist, agnostic, Doctor, Lawyer, Child or communist
- EVERYONE - a presentation of the REASONS or FACTS concerning the
Gospel of Jesus Christ and WHY you believe in it!

Computers for Christ - San Jose