====[ The Christian BBS - Vic., B.C., (604)-478-2789, 8,N,1 - 24 Hrs. ]====

                            CATHOLIC CHRONICLE I
     
                             THE HOLY EUCHARIST
     
                         Eating the Flesh of Deity
                         -------------------------
     
                     Edited and compiled by Keith Green
     
            Last Days Ministries, Box 40, Lindale, TX 75771-0040
     
    One might wonder why, in a scriptural look at the doctrines of the 
Catholic Church, I would choose this subject - The Roman Interpretation of 
the Lord's Supper (more commonly known as "Communion") for the first of the 
"Catholic Chronicles."  Most Protestants (1) would expect me to deal with 
what they might consider the more obvious departures from biblical 
foundation - such as the worship of and prayers to the Virgin Mary, the 
infallibility of the pope, purgatory and prayers for the dead, or the 
history of the torture and burning of accused "heretics" and such like 
that.
    But for this first article I believe that we should get right to the 
root, before we begin exploring the branches of Roman doctrine and 
practice.  And any Catholic who has even a small knowledge of his church 
knows that the central focus of each gathering (known as the "Mass") is the 
Holy Eucharist.
    The word "Eucharist" is a Greek word that means "thanksgiving."  In the 
gospel accounts of the Last Supper, Jesus is described as "giving thanks" 
before breaking the bread (Luke 22:19), and so this word became a proper 
name for the Lord's Supper in the early Catholic Church.  Today, it is more 
commonly associated with the elements in communion, especially the host or 
"wafer," although the ceremony itself is still called "The Holy Eucharist."
    Now, you might be wondering why I'm taking so much time and effort to 
explain something as harmless as the ceremony known around the world as 
communion.  If you've probably taken part in a communion service.  So why 
make all this fuss about bread and wine?  Why?  Because that's where the 
similarity between evangelical communion services and the Roman Catholic 
Mass ends - at the bread and the wine!
     
                             Transubstantiation
                             ------------------

    That 18-letter word above is a complete theological statement . . . and 
the name of a doctrine, out of which springs the most astounding set of 
beliefs and practices that has ever been taught in the name of religion.  
Very, very few people know what the Catholic Church actually believes and 
teaches concerning this subject, and I am convinced that even fewer 
Catholics realize themselves what they are taking part in.  From earliest 
childhood, "This is the body of Christ" is all  they've ever heard when the 
priest gingerly placed the wafer on their tongue.  And as they grew up, it 
was such a natural and normal part of religious life, that their minds 
never even questioned the fact that Jesus Christ, Himself, was actually in 
their mouth!
    It might be hard for you to believe, but that's exactly, literally, 
what "transubstantiation" means.  The Roman Catholic Church teaches their 
flocks that the bread and the wine used in the Mass actually, physically, 
turn into the flesh and blood of Jesus Christ after the priest blesses them 
during the liturgy (ceremony.  Although this in itself might shock you, it 
is really only the beginning.  For the implications and practical 
conclusions of this doctrine are absolutely mind-boggling.

                            Exclusive Authority
                            -------------------

    For example, the Roman Catholic Church teaches that since their priests 
are the only ones who have the authority from God (2) to pronounce the 
blessing which changes the elements of communion into the actual body and 
blood of Jesus, that they are the only church where Jesus "physically 
resides" even now!  Let me quote a letter written to one of the girls in 
our ministry from a devoted Catholic:

      "To explain the Catholic Church would take volumes, but basically the 
  Catholic Church was founded by Jesus Christ when He was here on earth.  
  It is the ONLY church founded by Jesus.  The greatest asset of our church 
  is that we have Jesus present in the Holy Eucharist - He is really here, 
  body, soul and divinity.  He is God and in His omnipotence can do 
  anything He wishes, and He decided to remain with us until the end of the 
  world in the form of the host in Holy Communion."

    If you think this is just the isolated opinion of someone on the fringe 
of the church, or that the Catholic Church as a whole does not really 
believe or teach this, I beg you to read on.  For not only is this the 
official teaching of Rome, but according to irreversible church decree 
(called dogma), anyone who does not hold to this belief, in the most 
explicit detail, is accursed and damned forever!

                            The Council of Trent
                            --------------------

    When Europe was electrified by the eloquent preaching of the sixteenth 
century reformation, the Roman Catholic hierarchy gathered together her 
theologians who worked for three decades on the preparation of a statement 
of faith concerning transubstantiation.  This document remains, to this 
day, the standard of Catholic doctrine.
    As the Second Vatican Council commenced in 1963, Pope John XXIII 
declared, "I do accept entirely all that has been decided and declared at 
the Council of Trent."  What did the Council of Trent decide and declare?  
Some of the first sections are as follows:

                                  CANON I
                                  -------
    "If anyone shall deny that the body and blood, together with the soul 
and divinity of our Lord Jesus Christ, and therefore entire Christ, are 
truly, really, and substantially contained in the sacrament of the most 
Holy Eucharist; and shall say that He is only in it as a sign, or in a 
figure - let him be accursed!"

                                  CANON II
                                  --------
    "If anyone shall say that the substance of the bread and wine remains 
in the sacrament of the most Holy Eucharist, together with the body and 
blood of our Lord Jesus Christ - let him be accursed!"
     
                                  CANON VI
                                  --------
    "If anyone shall say that Christ, the only begotten Son of God, is not 
to be adored in the holy sacrament of the Eucharist, even with the open 
worship of Latria, and therefore not to be venerated with any peculiar 
festal celebrity, not to be solemnly carried about in processions according 
to the praiseworthy and universal rites and customs of the Holy Church, and 
that He is not to be publicly set before the people to be adored, and that 
His adorers are idolators, - let him be accursed!"
     
                          The Worship Of The Host
                          -----------------------

    "Thou shall not make unto thee any graven image (4)...
    Thou shall not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them"
                               - The 2nd commandment (Ex.20:4-5)

    "God is spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and 
    truth."
                               - John 4:23
    
    In Canon VI, a rite of worship called "Latria" was spoken of.  This is 
not just an "ancient custom," it is thoroughly practiced today in many 
Masses.  After the bread has been supposedly "changed" into the Christ by 
the priest, it is placed in a holder called a monstrance.  And before this 
monstrance the Catholic must bow and worship (this act is called 
genuflecting) the little wafer as God!  Sometimes they have processions 
where they solemnly march, as the congregation bows and offers praise and 
worship - to this piece of bread!
    The Roman teaching that Jesus Christ is physically present in each 
morsel of bread creates many other doctrinal and practical problems.  For 
instance, when the service is over, what happens to all those leftover 
wafers that have been "changed into Christ?"  Do they change back into 
bread again when the priest goes home?  I'm afraid not.  For according to 
Canon IV of the Council of Trent, they stay flesh!  And don't think that 
400 year-old decree is just some dusty old manuscript in a museum case 
somewhere - it still is completely adhered to and passionately practiced.  
As an example, here is a passage from an official Catholic home instruction 
book, copyrighted 1978:
    "Jesus Christ does not cease to exist under the appearances of bread 
and wine after the Mass is over.  Furthermore, some hosts are usually kept 
in all Catholic churches.  In these hosts, Jesus is physically and truly 
present, as long as the appearances of bread remain.  Catholics therefore 
have the praiseworthy practice of `making visits' to our Lord present in 
their churches to offer Him their thanks, their adoration, to ask for help 
and forgiveness: in a word, to make Him the center around which they live 
their daily lives."  That is an incredible interpretation of how to make 
Jesus the center of your daily life!

                       When Did This Teaching Begin?
                       -----------------------------

    The teaching of transubstantiation does not date back to the Last 
Supper as most Catholics suppose.  It was a controversial topic for many 
centuries before officially becoming an article of faith (which means that 
it is essential to salvation according to Rome).  The idea of a physical 
presence was vaguely held by some, such as Ambrose, but it was not until 
831 A.D. that Paschasius Radbertus, a Benedictine Monk, published a 
treatise openly advocating the doctrine.  Even then, for almost another 
four centuries, theological was was waged over this teaching by bishops and 
people alike, until at the Fourth Lateran Council in 1215 A.D., it was 
officially defined and canonized as a dogma (a teaching or doctrine that can 
never be reversed or repealed.  It is equal in authority to the Bible.) by 
Pope Innocent III.
    Church historians tell us that when this doctrine first began to be 
taught, the priests took great care that no crumb should fall - lest the 
body of Jesus be hurt, or even eaten by a mouse or a dog!  There were quite 
serious discussions as to what should be done if a person were to vomit 
after receiving the sacrament.  At the Council of Constance, it was argued 
that if a communicant spilled some of the blood on his beard, both beard 
and the man should be destroyed by burning!

                          How Rome Views the Bible
                          ------------------------

    Before we proceed to look at what the Bible has to say on this subject, 
it is important to understand the official Catholic view of the Scriptures.  
According to unquestionable decree, they hold that "Church tradition has 
equal authority with the Bible."  This is not  just a theological view, but 
it was made an article of faith by the same Council of Trent in 1546!  And 
again, this view is completely held by the Church today:
    "The teachings of the Church will always be in keeping with the 
teachings of the Scripture...and it is through the teaching of the Church 
that we understand more fully truths of sacred Scripture.  To the Catholic 
Church belongs the final word in the understanding and meaning of the Holy 
Spirit in the words of the Bible."
    And explaining the premise used in interpreting the Bible:  
"...usually, the meaning of the Scriptures is sought out by those who are 
specially trained for this purpose.  And in their conclusions, they know 
that no explanation of the Scriptures which contradicts the truths 
constantly taught by the infallible Church can be true." (10)
    Anyone can see how such a mode of interpretation can be dangerously 
used to manipulate Scripture to mean absolutely anything at all!  Who has 
not observed this of the various cults?  The Moonies, Mormons, and 
Jehovah's Witnesses all back up their false teachings with "new 
revelations" and "inspired interpretations" of the Scriptures - each 
claiming that the Holy Spirit revealed these new truths to their founders.  
One opens themselves to all kinds of deception when they judge the Bible by 
what their church or pastor teaches, instead of judging what their church 
or pastor teaches by the Bible!

                       Catholic Proof-Texts Explained
                       ------------------------------

    With this in mind, we will briefly discuss the two main passages of 
Scripture that the Roman Church uses while trying to show that Jesus 
Himself taught transubstantiation.
     
    John 6:54-55:  "He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal 
life; and I will raise him up on the last day.  For My flesh is true food, 
and My blood is true drink."

    Catholics are taught here, that Jesus is explaining how He is literally 
offering them His flesh and blood, so that they may have eternal life by 
physically eating Him.  With just a little study of the whole passage 
(verses 27-71), it is clear that Jesus was not talking about physical, but 
spiritual food and drink.
    Food is eaten to satisfy hunger.  And in verse 35 Jesus says, "He who 
cometh to Me shall never hunger."  Now, Jesus is not promising eternal 
relief from physical hunger pains.  He is, of course, speaking of the 
spiritual hunger in man for righteousness and salvation,  And He promises 
to those who will "come to Him" that He will satisfy their hunger for these 
things forever - therefore, to come to Him is to "eat"! (See also Matt. 
5:6, 11:28; Jn. 4:31-34.)
    We drink also to satisfy thirst, and again in verse 35 Jesus tells us, 
"He that believeth on Me shall never thirst."  Therefore, to believe on Him 
is to "drink"!  (See also John 4:13-14.)  No one can say that Jesus was 
here establishing the eating and drinking of His literal flesh and blood to 
give eternal life, for in verse 63 He says, "It is the Spirit who gives 
life; the flesh profits nothing; the words that I speak unto you, they are 
spirit, and they are life."  Thus Jesus makes clear what we should be 
eating and drinking to have eternal life!  Matt. 26:26 and 28: "This is My 
body...this is My blood."  (See also Matt. 4:4.)
    Catholics base their whole religious system on their interpretation of 
these tow verses.  They adamantly teach that right here, Jesus is 
pronouncing the first priestly blessing that mysteriously changes the bread 
and wine into His body and blood.  The absolute folly of such a conclusion 
is proved by this one observation: He was literally still there before, 
during, and after they had partaken of the bread and the cup!  He was not 
changed into some liquid and bread - His flesh was still on His bones, and 
His blood still in His veins.  He had not vanished away to reappear in the 
form of a piece of bread or a cup of wine!
    Let's look closer at His words.  No one can deny that here we have 
figurative language.  Jesus did not say TOUTO GIGNETAI ("this has become" 
or "is turned into"),  but TOUTO ESTI ("this is," i.e., "signifies," 
"represents" or "stands for"). (11)  It is obvious that Jesus' meaning was 
not literal but symbolic!  And He wasn't the first in the Bible to claim 
figuratively that a glass of liquid was really "blood."
    One time, David's friends heard him express a strong desire for water 
from the well of Bethlehem.  In spite of extreme danger, these men broke 
through the enemy lines of the Philistines and brought the water to him.  
When David found out that these men had risked their lives in this way, he 
refused to drink the water, exclaiming, "Is not this the blood of the men 
who went in jeopardy of their lives?" (2 Sam. 23:17)
    Throughout the gospels we find similar metaphorical language: Jesus 
referring to Himself as "the Door," "the Vine," "the Light," "the Root," 
"the Rock," "the Bright and Morning Star," as well as "the Bread."  The 
passage is written with such common language that it is plain to any 
observant reader that the Lord's Supper was intended primarily as a 
memorial and in no sense a literal sacrifice.  "Do this in remembrance of 
Me."  (Luke 22:19)

                             True Pagan Origins
                             ------------------

    Where did this teaching and practice really come from?  Like many of 
the beliefs and rites of Romanism, transubstantiation was first practiced 
by pagan religions.  The noted historian Durant said that belief in 
transubstantiation as practiced by the priests of the Roman Catholic system 
is "one of the oldest ceremonies of primitive religion." (12)  The 
syncretism and mysticism of the Middle East were great factors in 
influencing the West, particularly Italy. (13)  In Egypt, priests would 
consecrate mest cakes which were supposed to become the flesh of Osiris. 
(14)  The idea of transubstantiation was also characteristic of the 
religion of Mithra whose sacraments of cakes and haoma drink closely 
parallel Catholic Eucharist rites. (15)
    The idea of eating the flesh of deity was most popular among the people 
of Mexico and Central America long before they ever heard of Christ; and 
when Spanish missionaries first landed in those countries, "their surprise 
was heightened, when they witnessed a religious rite which reminded them of 
communion...an image made of flour...and after consecration by priests, was 
distributed among the people who ate it...declaring it was the flesh of 
deity..." (16)

                          So Why Do They Teach It?
                          ------------------------

    Before concluding our first chronicle, the question needs to be asked, 
"Why does the Roman Catholic Church need to have such a doctrine - why do 
they think that Jesus wants them to Physically eat Him?"  That is what 
truly puzzled me as I read astounded through the catechism and doctrinal 
instruction books.  But the answer to that question is a sad one.  As I 
said before, the implications and practical conclusions of the teaching of 
transubstantiation are substantially worse than the doctrine itself - and 
like a great web spun by an industrious spider, Rome's teachings spiral out 
from this central hub like the spokes of a wheel.
    In Catholic Chronicle II we will look intently at the next direct 
result of transubstantiation in official Catholic systematic theology:  "The 
Sacrifice of the Mass."
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 1 - Today, Protestants are considered to be members of any church or 
     church-group outside the Roman Catholic or Eastern Orthodox churches.
 2 - Passed down through "Apostolic Succession" from Peter the apostle-the 
     supposed "first pope."
 3 - The "wafer."
 4 - NASV reads, "You shall not make for yourself an idol."
 5 - This act is called "genuflecting."
 6 - "The Spirit of Jesus" Catholic Home Study Instruction Course. 
     Book #3, p.92.
 7 - A "Dogma" is a teaching or doctrine that can never be reversed or 
     repealed.  It is equal in authority to the Bible.
 8 - The Other Side of Rome, p.21.
 9 - By the end of the eleventh century, lest someone should spill God's 
     blood, some in the church began to hold back the cup from the people, 
     and finally in 1415, the Council of Constance officially denied the 
     cup to laymen.  Although today, by decree of the Vatican, churches may 
     now offer the cup optionally to communicants.
10 - "The Spirit of Jesus," pp.94-95.
11 - If I held up a picture of my son and said, "This is my son," I am 
     certainly not saying that the actual picture is literally my son.
12 - The Story of Civilization, p.741.
13 - Roman Society From Nero to Marcus Aurelius, by Dill.
14 - An ancient Egyptian god of the lower world and judge of the dead - 
     Encyclopedia of Religions, Vol.2, p.76.
15 - Ibid.
16 - Prescott's Mexico, Vol. 3.



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


====[ The Christian BBS - Vic., B.C., (604)-478-2789, 8,N,1 - 24 Hrs. ]====

                           CATHOLIC CHRONICLE II
     
                         THE SACRIFICE of the MASS
     
                            - Jesus Dies Again -
                              ----------------
     
                     Edited and compiled by Keith Green
     
            Last Days Ministries, Box 40, Lindale, TX 75771-0040

    In Chronicle I, we thoroughly examined the doctrine of 
transubstantiation - its history, practice, and real meaning.  But we have 
waited for this second article to answer the question: WHY?  Why must there 
be present in the Mass the literal body and blood of Jesus?  What purpose 
does it serve?
    The answer is found in the startling words: "The sacrifice of the Mass 
is the same sacrifice of the cross, for there is the same priest, the same 
victim, and the same offering." (1)
    And in the words of Pope Pius IV....
    "I profess likewise that in the Mass there is offered to God a true, 
proper, and propitiatory (2) sacrifice for the living and the dead."  (From 
the fifth article of the creed of Pope Pius IV.)
    That is the incredible truth!  The Roman Catholic Church believes and 
teaches that in every Mass, in every church, throughout the world 
(estimated at up to 200,000 Masses a day) that Jesus Christ is being 
offered up again, physically, as a sacrifice for sin (benefiting not only 
those alive, but the dead (3) as well!)  Every Roman Mass is a re-creation 
of Jesus' death for the sins of the world.  NOT A SYMBOLIC RE-CREATION!  
But a literal, actual offering of the flesh and blood of the Lord to make 
daily atonement for all the sins that have been daily committed since Jesus 
was crucified almost 2,000 years ago. (4)
    That's why the elements (5) must become physically Jesus' body and 
blood, so that they can be once again offered for sin:
    "The Holy Eucharist is the perpetual continuation of this act of 
sacrifice and surrender of our Lord.  When the Lord's Supper is celebrated, 
Christ again presents Himself in His act of total surrender to the Father 
in death." (6)
    "He offers Himself continually to the Father, in the same eternal act 
of offering that began on the cross and will NEVER CEASE." (7)
    "The Mass is identical to Calvary - it is a sacrifice for sin - it must 
be perpetuated to take away sin." (8)
    The catechism of the Council of Trent required all pastors to explain 
that not only did the elements of the Mass contain flesh, bones and nerves 
as a part of Christ, "But also a WHOLE CHRIST." (9)  Thus it is referred to 
as "the sacrifice of the Mass" and as "a RENEWAL of the sacrifice of the 
cross." (10)
     
            The Council Of Trent On "The Sacrifice Of The Mass"
            --------------------------------------------------

    As we shared in chronicle I, the Council of Trent was called to clarify 
and standardize Catholic doctrine in response to the challenges of the 
Reformation.  The canons on this subject (passed in Session XXII. Cap II.) 
are as follows:
    1. "If anyone shall say, that in the Mass there is not offered to God a 
true and proper sacrifice, or that what is offered is nothing else than 
Christ given to be eaten, let him be anathema." (11)
    2. "If anyone shall say that in these words, `This do in remembrance of 
Me,' Christ did not make the apostles priests, or did not ordain that they 
themselves and other priests should offer His body and blood, let him be 
anathema."
    3. "If anyone shall say that the sacrifice of the Mass is only of 
praise and thanksgiving, or a bare commemoration of the sacrifice performed 
on the cross, but not propitiatory; or that it is of benefit only to the 
person who takes it, and ought not to be offered for the living and the 
dead fro sins, punishments, satisfactions, and other necessities, let him be 
accursed."
    4. "If anyone shall say that a blasphemy is ascribed to the most holy 
sacrifice of Christ performed on the cross by the sacrifice of the Mass - 
let him be accursed."

                   But Is This The Belief Of Rome Today?
                   -------------------------------------

    If any be in doubt as to the modern Roman position, we shall quote the 
recent (1963-1965) Second Vatican Council:
    "At the Last Supper...our Saviour instituted the Eucharistic sacrifice 
of His body and blood.  He did this in order to perpetuate the sacrifice of 
the cross..." p. 154, THE DOCUMENTS OF VATICAN II, Walter M. Abbott, S.J.
    The catechism books teach that the reason the Mass is the same 
sacrifice as that of Calvary is because the victim in each case was Jesus 
Christ. (12)  In fact, they refer to the bread of the Eucharist as the 
"host," which is the Latin word HOSTIA which literally means "VICTIM." (13)

                    But Why "The Sacrifice" Of The Mass?
                    ------------------------------------

    We will now quote the church's own contemporary literature to fully 
answer this question (taken from the book, THIS IS THE CATHOLIC CHURCH, 
published by the Catholic Information Service, Knights of Columbus, 
Imprimatur: (14) Most Reverend John F. Whealon, Archbishop of Hartford:
    "Sacrifice is the very essence of religion.  And it is only through 
sacrifice that union with the Creator can be perfectly acquired.  It was 
through sacrifice that Christ Himself was able to achieve this for man.  IT 
IS ONLY THROUGH THE PERPETUATION OF THAT SACRIFICE THAT THIS UNION MAY BE 
MAINTAINED.
    "What makes the Mass the most exalted of all sacrifices is the nature 
of the victim, Christ Himself.  For the Mass is the continuation of 
Christ's sacrifice which He offered through His life and Christ was not 
only the priest of this sacrifice (of the Cross), He was also the victim, 
the very object itself of this sacrifice.
    The Mass is thus the same as the sacrifice of the cross.  No matter how 
many times it is offered, nor in how many places at one time, it is the 
same sacrifice of Christ.  Christ is forever offering Himself in the Mass." 
(15)

                      But Jesus Said "It Is Finished!"
                      --------------------------------

    Every true believer loves the sound of these words: "It is finished!" 
(John 19:30).  For it is the wonderful exclamation that the Lord's 
suffering was finally over - He had fulfilled His mission!  Jesus had lived 
a Life of Sorrow, bearing the burden of a world gone mad.  He had been 
rejected by everyone, even His closest friends.  He had lived a perfect 
life before men and God, and His reward on earth was to be laughed at, spat 
upon, beaten beyond recognition, and finally nailed to a cross.  But He had 
submitted willingly, because it was the will of His Father to offer Him as 
the satisfaction of the penalty for all the sin in the world - past, present 
and future!
    But here, in the words of a Roman Catholic priest, is the "true 
meaning" of the words "it is finished!"  "These words do not declare that 
His sacrifice was finished, but that He had finished His former, normal, 
earthly life and was now fixed in the state of a victim...He then began His 
everlasting career as the perpetual sacrifice of the new law." (16)  Hence, 
according to Rome, Jesus must be forever dying for sin, "perpetually."
    Have you ever wondered why in every Catholic Church they still have 
Jesus up on the cross?  Every crucifix with Jesus portrayed as nailed to 
it, tells the whole Catholic story - Jesus is still dying for the sins of 
the world!  But that's a lie!  We need only look to the Scriptures to see 
the truth.

                              Back To The Book
                              ----------------

    The epistle to the Hebrews speaks of the "once for all" sacrifice of 
Christ on the cross, not a daily sacrifice on altars.  The Bible repeatedly 
affirms in the clearest and most positive terms that Christ's sacrifice on 
Calvary was complete in that one offering.  And that it was never to be 
repeated is set forth explicitly in Hebrews, chapters 7, 9 and 10:
    "Who needeth not daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifice, 
first for his own sins, and then for the people's:  For this He did once, 
when He offered up Himself" (7:27).  "...by His own blood He entered in 
once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us" 
(9:12).  "Nor yet that He should offer Himself often..but now once in the 
end of the world hath He appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of 
Himself..so Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them 
that look for Him shall He appear the second time without sin unto 
salvation" (9:25-28).  "...we are sanctified through the offering of the 
body of Jesus Christ once for all.  And every priest standeth daily 
ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never 
take away sins; but this man, after He had offered one sacrifice for the 
sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God...for by one offering He 
hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified" (10:10-14).
    Notice that throughout these verses occurs the statement "once for all" 
which shows how perfect, complete and final Jesus' sacrifice was!  His work 
on the cross constituted one historic event which need never be repeated 
and which in fact cannot be repeated.  As Paul say, "Christ, being raised 
from the dead dieth no more" (Romans 6:9).  Any pretense of a continuous 
offering for sin is worse than vain, it is blasphemy and true fulfillment 
of the Scripture, "Seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, 
and put Him to an open shame." (Heb. 6:6).

                          Jesus - The Only Priest
                          -----------------------

    Jesus not only became the perfect sacrifice for sin, but after being 
accepted by God as having totally fulfilled the requirements of the old 
covenant, He became "the mediator of a better covenant" (Heb.8:6). That 
means that Jesus is the high priest of every true believer! "There is one 
mediator between God and men, the man Jesus Christ" (ITim.2:5). 
    The Bible teaches that the priesthood of Jesus Christ is unique: "Thou 
art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek" (17)  "...because He 
abides forever (He) holds His priesthood permanently"  (which means that it 
cannot be transferred to another!) (Heb.7:17,24).
    But Roman Catholicism teaches that the apostles were ordained by Jesus 
Himself (at the Last Supper) to perpetuate the coming sacrifice He would 
make on the cross.  And that this ordination has been handed down through 
the centuries to the current generation of priests.  Therefore, Rome 
teaches that her priests actually operate and discharge the priesthood of 
Jesus Christ, and that they are called "other Christs" (alter Christus).  
(18)
    This explains the great adulation and honor heaped upon the Roman 
priest.  The French Catholic Saint J.M.B. Vianney said that "Where there is 
no priest there is no sacrifice, and where there is no sacrifice there is 
no religion...without the priest the death and passion of our Lord would be 
of no avail to us... see the power of the priest!  By one word from his 
lips, he changes a piece of bread into a God!  A greater feat than the 
creation of a world."  He also said, "If I were to meet a priest and an 
angel, I would salute the priest before saluting the angel.  The angel is 
a friend of God, but the priest holds the place of God...nest to God 
Himself, the priest is everything!"  What humiliation for Jesus Christ, the 
One who has been given a name "above all other names!"

                          But Isn't Rome Changing?
                          ------------------------

    Today, many are expressing hope that Rome is turning toward scriptural 
Christianity.  They point to the many reforms of Vatican II (19) and also 
to the ever-widening charismatic renewal.  True, these things appear to be 
a positive sign of change, and many are thrilled by them, but most fail to 
realize that these changes are only superficial.  For Rome could never 
reject the sacrifice of the Mass - just streamline it enough to keep the 
truth of its meaning hidden.  Pope John XXIII made it clear that His Church 
is bound "to all the teachings of the Church in its entirety and 
preciseness, as it still shines forth in the act of the Council of Trent 
and First Vatican Council..."  (20)
    It is clear that the whole of Roman teaching and belief is founded on 
this premise of the continual sacrifice of Christ for sin:
    "It should be easy to see why the Mass holds such an important place in 
the Church's life.  The Mass is the very essence of the Church.  Within it 
the Church's life, and the Church's very existence is centered.  If there 
were no Mass, there could be no Catholic Church.  The Mass is our act of 
worship, an act which we know to be really worthy of God, because it is the 
sacrifice of God's own Son.
    "What the sacrifices of the old law were unable to accomplish - the 
Mass performs: Perfect atonement is made for sin. 
    "The souls of men yet unborn, together with those now living and those 
who have come into existence since Christ's sacrifice, all have need of the 
salvation which Christ has won for us.  It is through the Mass as well as 
through the other sacraments that the effects of Christ's salvation are 
applied to the souls of men."  (21)
    It is made thoroughly clear that Rome will forever put its faith in the 
Mass for the eternal forgiveness of sins. To remove this belief from her 
system of theology, would be like knocking our the pillars of a great 
edifice - the whole building would come tumbling down!

                           Paul's Extreme Warning
                           ----------------------

    As I sat stunned, reading all the "Let them be accursed" threats of the 
Council of Trent, I could not help but think how their curses would only 
fall back on their own heads - for the words of our brother Paul call out 
across the centuries:
    "But even though we, or an angel from heaven, should preach to you a 
gospel contrary to that which we have preached to you, let him be 
accursed!" (Gal. 1:8).
    Not only does Paul warn that an authentic angel from heaven should not 
be heeded while preaching "different doctrine," but he gives the ultimate 
warning -"...even though we!"  Paul strictly warned the Galatians, not even 
to listen to him - the chief apostle and master of true doctrine - if he 
should reverse himself on any of the fundamental teachings of the gospel.  
How much more then, should we reject the appalling traditions and practices 
of a system that is not only unbiblical, but is actually steeped in 
mysticism, bordering dangerously on the occult!

                                 Conclusion
                                 ----------
                         The Definition Of A "Cult"
                         --------------------------

    Now I am sure, many of you who have been reading this, might have been 
wondering if (and when) I would use this word.  Today, the word "cult" is 
thrown around without much thought.  People seem much too eager to use it 
to describe any individual or group that doesn't exactly agree with them.  
And I do not, and will not use the word lightly.  But as far as I can see 
from the Bible, a person is only in danger of being grouped with "false 
brethren" by tampering with three very basic issues of biblical truth. (22)
    1)  Who Jesus is - Son of God, God the Son, Creator of the universe.
    2)  What He came to do - to die once for all, for the sins of mankind, 
then raise from the dead as the eternal high priest of all true believers.
    3)  How a person directly benefits from Christ's death for sin - he is 
accounted as righteous through a total faith and rest in the finished work 
of Christ, and becomes the possessor of God's free gift - eternal life 
(salvation.
    The Roman Catholic Church has been considered a true Christian faith, 
mainly because it is generally known that their theology is quite orthodox 
on point #1.  But as we have pointed out in these two chronicles, they are 
perilously shaky on the atonement - Christ's substitutionary death for 
sinners - #2.  But if there is any doubt left at all, as to whether or not 
the Roman Church is authentically and biblically Christian, there is a 
complete and thorough study of the Roman view on how one obtains salvation 
in our third installment of The Catholic Chronicles - "Salvation According 
To Rome."
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 1] The Roman Catholic Sacrifice of the Mass, by Bartholomew F. Brewer, 
    Ph.D.
 2] Propitiatory - conciliatory, to soothe the anger of, to win or regain 
    the goodwill of, to appease, placate or make friendly, to reconcile - 
    Webster's New World Dictionary and Harper's Bible Dictionary.
 3] "It is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment"
    (Heb.9:27).
 4] The Catholic Home Instruction Book #3, p.90.
 5] The bread and the wine.
 6] the Spirit of Jesus pp.89-90, Imprimatur: John Joseph Cardinal
    Carberry, Archbishop of St.Louis.
 7] Sons of God in Christ Book 4, p.117.
 8] For Them Also, pp.289-299.
 9] Encyclopedia of Religions, Vol.2, p.77.
10] "A Catholic Word List" p.45.
11] Anathema - The strongest denunciaiton of a person that can be made in 
    the ancient Greek (the original language of the New Testament).  Literal 
    meaning: "devoted to death."  A thing or person accursed or damned - 
    Webster's New World Dictionary and Harper's Bible Dictionary.
12] "The New Baltimore Catechism" #3, Question 931.
13] Webster's New World Dictionary.
14] Imprimatur - Sanction or approval.  Specifically, permission to print 
    or publish a book or article containing nothing contrary to the 
    teachings of the Roman Catholic Church - Webster's New World 
    Dictionary.
15] pp.20-24
16] The Sacrifice of Christ by Fr.Richard W.Grace.
17] Psalm 110:4 and Hebrews 7:17.
18] In Latin.
19] i.e., Such as Masses performed in the common language rather than 
    exclusively in Latin, the relaxation of taboos such as eating meat on 
    Friday, etc.
20] The Documents of Vatican II, Abbot,S.J.
21] This Is The Catholic Church pp.24-25.
22] These are greatly condensed for this example.




-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




====[ The Christian BBS - Vic., B.C., (604)-478-2789, 8,N,1 - 24 Hrs. ]====

                           CATHOLIC CHRONICLE III
     
                        Salvation According to Rome
                        ---------------------------
     
                     Edited and compiled by Keith Green
     
            Last Days Ministries, Box 40, Lindale, TX 75771-0040

    "...the free gift of God is eternal life in Jesus Christ our Lord!"
                                                            - Rom. 6:23

    How blessed it is to know Jesus!  His love, His mercy, His 
righteousness, His forgiveness!  He has promised to "cast all our sins into 
the depths of the sea" (Mic. 7:19) and to separate us from our sins "as far 
as the east is from the west!" (Ps. 103:12).
    This is the good news!  (That's the literal meaning of the word 
"gospel" - good news!)  That is what the true church of our God has the 
privilege of proclaiming..."liberty to the captives!!" (Lk. 4:18).
    The reason I begin this article on the Roman Catholic view of salvation 
with such rejoicing in my Saviour, is because I have just finished reading 
a mountain of official (Roman) church literature on the subject, and I can 
honestly say, I have never had such joy in my heart of hearts about the 
finished work of Christ.  As I scoured each page and read of penance, 
confession, venial and mortal sins, indulgences, purgatory, etc., I then 
had the infinite pleasure of searching the Scriptures to see what they had 
to say on these fundamental Catholic doctrines.
    Oh what relief my soul found in the Scriptures!  What holy joy!  What 
clarity of light I saw, as the simple brilliance of God's mercy shown into 
my mind.  If there is anything more beautiful than God's love and patience 
with man, it has never been revealed to mortals!
    All this to say that I am bogged down with the information I have 
accumulated, and I will probably have to cover it all in this, Chronicle 
III, briefly touching on each subject, while always coming back to the main 
question: "According to Rome, how can a man or woman be saved from the 
consequences of his sinful nature and actions, and how can they gain 
assurance that they are in a right standing before God?"
    If the future permits, I will come back in another installment and 
cover some of these subjects (particularly, purgatory and indulgences) in 
far greater depth and detail.  It is our desire to see people find the true 
salvation that Jesus dies for - therefore, we must deal with that great 
(and most important) subject wholly, before taking the time to supply other 
necessary (and most revealing) subject matter.

                        The Catholic Teaching on Sin
                        ----------------------------

    Before we can understand what Catholics are taught about salvation, we 
must first see what they are taught they need to be saved from.  In Matt. 
1, the angel of the Lord speaks to Joseph in a dream about his bethrothed, 
Mary, saying "she will bear a Son, and you shall call His name Jesus, for 
it is He who will save His people from their sins" (vs. 21).
    Today, many evangelicals toss around the term "saved" without much 
thought.  "When did you get saved?" someone might ask.  It's almost like a 
title, or a badge that a person wears to prove that he's become part of the 
club - the "saved" club.  Others are under the impression that when a 
person talks of being "saved", they are talking about being saved from many 
different things - sickness, death, the devil, hell, etc.  But when the 
angel of the Lord used that precious word to prophesy that Jesus would 
fulfill all the predictions of the prophets, he made very clear what Jesus 
was coming to save His people from...their sins!
    In official Roman Catholic theology, this too is the main thing that 
people are taught they need to be saved from - their sins.  But the only 
thing that Catholic and evangelical teachings have in common on the 
subject of sin...is the spelling!  For when a Catholic talks about his 
"sins", you must find out first if he is talking about "mortal" sins, or 
"venial" sins.  And then you must ask him "how do you get rid of them?"  
The answer given will likely confound a non-Catholic.  For words like 
"faith", "repentance", even "Jesus" will usually be missing in the answer.  
Instead, a whole new list of other words will have to be learned, defined, 
and understood before the evangelical can fully grasp how a Catholic is 
taught his sins (and the penalty due them) can be canceled out.
    
                           Mortal and Venial Sins  
                           ----------------------

    The first of these unfamiliar words are the names of the two groups 
Rome has separated all sins into.  Now if you're a Catholic, you might be 
wondering why I'm making such a big deal - for the dividing of sins into 
two distinct categories (each with their own set of consequences and 
remedies) has been part of Catholic doctrine for a long, long time.
    According to Rome's definition, mortal sin is described as "any great 
offense against the law of God" and is so named because "it is deadly, 
killing the soul and subjecting it to eternal punishment."  Venial (1) 
sins, on the other hand, are "small and pardonable offenses against God, 
and our neighbor."  Unlike mortal sins, benial sins are not thought to damn 
a soul to hell, but with the committing of each venial sin, a person 
increase his need for a longer stay in the purifying fires of a place 
called "purgatory."  (Look that word up in your Bible dictionary - you'll 
find it right next to "venial"!)
    Now, there is no agreement among the priests as to which sins are mortal 
and which are venial, but they all proceed on the assumption that such a 
distinction does exist.  The method of classification is purely arbitrary.  
What is venial according to one may be mortal according to another.
    According to Rome, the pope is infallible in matters of faith and 
doctrine. (2)  He should then be able to settle this important matter by 
accurately cataloging those sins which are mortal as distinguished from 
those which are venial.  However, there are some definites in the "mortal" 
category: blatantly breaking one of the ten commandments, practically all 
sexual offenses (whether in word, thought or deed) and a long list of 
transgressions which have changed throughout the centuries.
    For instance, until Vatican II (3)  it was a mortal sin to attend a 
Protestant church, to own or read a Protestant Bible, or to eat meat on 
Friday!  Oh, and it's still a mortal sin to "miss Mass on Sunday morning 
(4)  without a good excuse" (which means that considerably more than half 
of the claimed Roman Catholic membership throughout the world is constantly 
in mortal sin!)  Venial sins include things like thinking bad thoughts, 
having wrong motives, losing your temper, etc. - things that do not 
necessarily "lead into actual sin" but still, nevertheless, are sins that 
need to be eradicated in some way.

                          What Does the Bible Say?
                          ------------------------

    The Bible makes no distinction between mortal and venial sins.  There is 
in fact, no such thing as a venial sin.  ALL SIN IS MORTAL!  It is true 
that some sin are worse than others, but it is also true that all sins if 
not forgiven bring death to the soul.  The Bible simply says:  "The wages 
of sin is death"  (Rom. 6:23).  And Ezekial says: "The soul that sinneth, 
it shall die" (18:4).
    James says that "whosoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles in one 
point, he has become guilty of all" (2:10).  He meant, not that the person 
who commits one sin is guilty of all other kinds of sin, but that even one 
sin unatoned for, shuts a person completely out of heaven and subjects him 
to punishment, just as surely as one misstep by the mountain climber 
plunges him to destruction in the canyon below.
    In the light of these biblical statements, the distinction between 
mortal and venial sins is shown to be completely absurd.  In fact, the very 
act of classifying sins into "greater and lesser" is immoral in itself.  We 
know how quick human nature is to grasp at any excuse for sin.  Rome seems 
to be saying "these sins are really bad!  But those?  Well...you can get 
away with a few of them and not really suffer too much."  Speaking of 
"getting away" with something, let's get right down to how Rome teaches you 
can "get rid of" your sins.

                                 Confession
                                 ----------

    The Catholic system starts to get real complicated when we begin to 
look at the ways one can erase both their mortal and venial sins.  "Two 
kinds of punishment are due to mortal sin: eternal (in hell forever), and 
temporal (in purgatory).  Eternal punishment is canceled by either baptism 
(5)  or confession to a priest." (6)
    The Baltimore Catechism defines confession as follows: "Confession is 
the telling of our sins to an authorized priest for the purpose of 
attaining forgiveness."  The important words here are "authorized priest."  
And to be genuine, a confession must be heard, judged, and followed by 
obedience to the authorized priest as he assigns a penance, such as good 
works, prayers, fastings, abstinence form certain pleasures, et.  A penance 
may be defined as "a punishment undergone in token of repentance for sin, 
as assigned by the priest" - usually a very light penalty.
    The New York Catechism says, "I must tell my sins to the priest so that 
he will give me absolution. (7)  A person who knowingly keeps back a mortal 
sin in confession commits a dreadful sacrilege, and he must repeat his 
confession."

                             The Priest's Role
                             -----------------

    Canon law 888 says: "The priest has to remember that in hearing 
confession he is a judge."  And the book, Instructions for Non-Catholics (8) 
says: "A priest does not have to ask God to forgive your sins.  The priest 
himself has the power to do so in Christ's name.  Your sins are forgiven by 
the priest the same as if you knelt before Jesus Christ and told them to 
Christ Himself." (9)
    "The priest forgives the guilt of mortal sins which save the penitent 
form going to hell, but he cannot remit the penalty due for those sins, 
and so the penitent must atone for them by performance of good works which 
he prescribes.  The penitent may be, and usually is, interrogated by the 
priest so that he or she may make a full and proper confession.  Stress is 
placed on the fact that any sin not confessed is not forgiven, any mortal 
sin not confessed in detail is not forgiven, and that the omission of even 
one sin (mortal) may invalidate the whole confession.  Every loyal Roman 
Catholic is required under pain of mortal sin to go to confession at least 
once a year. (10)  But even after a penitent has received pardon, a large, 
but unknown amount of punishment remains to be suffered in purgatory." (11, 
12)
    Technically, venial sins need not be confessed since they are 
comparatively light and can be canceled by good works, prayers, extreme 
unction. (13) etc., but the terms are quite elastic and permit considerable 
leeway on the part of the priest.  It is generally advised that it is safer 
to confess supposed venial sins also since the priest alone is able to 
judge accurately which are mortal and which are mortal and which are 
venial.  The Baltimore Catechism says: "When we have committed no mortal 
sins since our last confession, we should confess our venial sins or some 
sin told in a previous confession for which we are again sorry, in order 
that the priest may give us absolution. (14)  What chance has a poor sinner 
against such a system as that?
    As an example, a minister friend of mine who was brought up in the 
Catholic Church, tells the story of how his older brother went to 
confession every single week and confessed the same sin to the same priest 
and was given the same penance in order to receive absolution.  This went 
on week after week, year after year.  One day, while on a trip from home, 
he decided that he would not break his pattern of going to weekly 
confession, so he went to another Catholic Church in the city he was 
visiting.  He went into the confession box and confessed the same sin to a 
different priest.  He began with "forgive me Father for I have sinned," and 
then began confessing the sin once again, but this time he was shocked when 
the priest said: "But my son, that's not a sin!"  My friend's brother got 
up, and hurried out the door, and from that day on he has never stepped 
foot in any church again.

                           Historical Development
                           ----------------------

    We search in vain in the Bible for any word supporting the doctrine of 
"auricular confession." (15)  It is equally impossible to find any 
authorization or general practice of it during the first 1000 years of the 
Christian era.  Not a word is found in the writings of the early church 
fathers about confessing sins to a priest or to anyone except God alone.  
Auricular confession is not mentioned once in the writings of Augustine, 
Origen, Nestorius, Tertullian, Jerome, Chrysostem, or Athanasius - all of 
these and many others apparently lived and died without ever thinking of 
going to confession.  No one other than God was thought to be worthy to 
hear confessions or to grant forgiveness.
    Confession was first introduced into the church on a voluntary basis in 
the fifth century by the authority of Leo the Great.  But it was not until 
the Fourth Lateran Council in 1215 under Pope Innocent III that private 
auricular confession was make compulsory and all Roman Catholic people were 
required to confess and to seek absolution from a priest at least once a 
year.  If they did not obey this command, they were pronounced guilty of 
mortal sin and damned for eternity to hell.  (16)

                         Can A Priest Forgive Sins
                         _________________________

    The Scriptures teach that "only God can forgive sins" (Mark 2:7).  "The 
Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins" (Matt. 9:6).  Dr. 
Zachello tells of his experience as a priest in the confessional before 
leaving the Roman Church, in these words: "Where my doubts were really 
troubling me was inside the confessional box.  People coming to me, 
kneeling down in front of me, confessing their sins to me.  And I, with the 
sign of the cross, was promising that I had the power to forgive their 
sins.  I, a sinner, a man, was taking God's place.  It was God's laws they 
were breaking, not mine.  To God, therefore, they must make confession; and 
to God alone they must pray for forgiveness."  (17)
    In fact, the only word in the Bible about confessing sins to anyone 
other than God, is found in James: "Confess your sins to one another, and 
pray for one another, so that you may be healed"  (5:16).  It is obvious 
that the Lord meant what He says in Revelation, chapter 1, that "He has 
made us to be a kingdom, priests to His God and Father" (vs. 6), and Peter 
calls the church "a chosen race, a royal priesthood" (I Pet. 2:9).  Believe 
it or not, the only mention of New Testament believers being priests is 
used in a context where all true believers are included, not just a select 
few.  That is why James could say that we should confess our sins "to one 
another".
    Catholics love to quote the verse in John 20:23 to prove that priests 
do have the power to "forgive and retain" sins.  "If you forgive the sins 
of any, their sins have been forgiven them; if you retain the sins of any, 
they have been retained."  The powers of forgiving and retaining sins, were 
given to the apostles as proclaimers of the Word of God, not as priests.  
As we have just pointed out, there are no christian "priests" in New 
Testament teaching and doctrine.  Pastors, yes.  Deacons, yes.  Apostles, 
prophets, teachers, evangelists, yes.  Priests, no!
    Jesus was telling His followers that by preaching the gospel, they were 
being given the power to declare that a person's sins were forgiven them by 
God!  And if an individual, or group did not receive them and the 
forgiveness they offered in the name of Jesus, than they were instructed to 
"shake the dust off their feet" as a protest against them, and warn them 
that it would be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of 
judgment than for them (Matt. 10:14-15).  In other words, if a person 
rejected the apostles' preaching of the gospel, they had the right to tell 
that person that his sins were not forgiven, because they had rejected 
God's only provision for atonement of sins.  "The one who listens to you 
listens to Me, and the one who rejects you rejects Me" (Luke 10:16).  This 
power to forgive and retain sins, contrary to Rome's teaching, belongs to 
everyone who preaches the true gospel of salvation.
    
                                  Penance
                                  -------

    In the Roman system, penance is one of the seven sacraments. (18)  The 
Baltimore Catechism defines penance as "the sacrament by which sins 
committed after baptism are forgiven through the absolution of the priest." 
(19)  Another catechism published in New York says, "the priest gives 
penance to help me to make up for the temporal punishment does not always 
make full satisfaction for my sins.  I should therefore do other acts of 
penance...and try to gain indulgences." (20)  And in Instructions for Non-
Catholics, we read: "After confession some temporal punishment due to sin 
generally remains.  You should therefore perform other acts of penance also 
so that you may make up for these punishments, and avoid a long stay in 
purgatory." (21)

                        Penance as a System of Works
                        ----------------------------

    Here indeed is salvation by works.  For penance, as the catechism says, 
involves confession on one's sins to a priest and the doing of good works 
as the only way by which sins committed after baptism can be forgiven.  The 
Church of Rome thus demands acts of penance before She grants forgiveness, 
inferring that the sacrifice of Christ was not sufficient to atone fully 
for sin and that it must be supplemented to some extent by these good 
works.
    But what God demands is not acts of penance but repentance, which means 
turning from sin.
    "Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts; 
and let him return to the Lord, and He will have mercy upon him; for He 
will abundantly pardon" (Isa. 55:7).
    The easy way in which the Church of Rome deals with sin is seen in this 
doctrine of penance.  The penitent receives pardon on comparatively easy 
terms.  He is assigned some task to perform, usually not too hard, 
sometimes merely the recital of a given number of "Hail Mary's."  the 
result is that he has no qualms about resuming his evil course.  It shocked 
Martin Luther when he read the Greek New Testament edited by Erasmus, that 
Jesus did not say "do penance" as had been translated by the Roman Church, 
but "repent."

                         Penance versus Repentance
                         -------------------------

    Penance is a wholly different thing from gospel repentance.  Penance is 
an outward act.  Repentance is of the heart.  Penance is imposed by a Roman 
priest.  Repentance is the work of the Holy Spirit.  What God desires in 
the sinner is not a punishment of oneself for sins, but a change of heart, a 
real forsaking of sin, shown by a new life of obedience to God's commands.
    In short, penance is a counterfeit repentance.  It is the work of man 
on his body; true repentance is the work of God in the soul.  The Divine 
Word commands, "Rend your heart and not your garments" (Joel 2:13).  
Penance is "rending the garments" - an outward form without inward reality.
    While Romanism does teach that Christ died for our sins, it also 
teaches that His sacrifice alone was not sufficient, and that our 
sufferings must be added to make it effective.  In accordance with this, 
many have tried to earn salvation by fastings, rituals, flagellations and 
good works of various kinds.  But those who attempt such a course always 
find that it is impossible to do enough to earn salvation.
    Dr. C.D. Cole says, "Romanism is a complicated system of salvation by 
works.  It offers salvation on the installment plan, then sees to it that 
the poor sinner is always behind in his payments, so that when he dies 
there is a large unpaid balance, and he must continue payments by 
sufferings in purgatory, or until the debt is paid by the prayers, alms, 
and sufferings of his living relatives and friends.  The whole system and 
plan calls for merit and money from the cradle to the grave and even 
beyond.  Surely the wisdom that drew such a plan of salvation is not from 
above." (22)

                    The Biblical Teaching on Good Works
                    -----------------------------------

    Good works, of course, are pleasing to God and they have an important 
and necessary place in the life of the Christian.  they naturally follow if 
one has true faith, and they are performed out of love and gratitude to God 
for the great salvation that He has bestowed.  Good works, in other words, 
are not the cause and basis of salvation, but rather the fruits and proof 
of salvation - "Not by works done in righteousness which we did ourselves, 
but according to His mercy He saved us through the washing of regeneration 
and the renewing the Holy Spirit" (Titus 3:5).  The born-again Christian 
produces good works as naturally as the grapevine produces grapes.  They 
are a part of his very nature.  He performs them not to get saved, but 
because he is saved.
     
                             Salvation by Grace
                             ------------------

    Grace, just because it is grace, is not given on the basis of 
proceeding merits.  By no stretch of the imagination can a man's good works 
in this life be considered a just equivalent for the blessings of eternal 
life.  But all men because of pride, naturally feel that they should earn 
their salvation, and a system which makes some provision in that regard 
readily appeals to them.  But Paul lays the axe to such reasoning then he 
says: "If a law had been given which was able to impart life, then 
righteousness would indeed have been based on law" (Gal. 3:21).  Time and 
again the Scriptures repeat that salvation is of grace, as if anticipating  
the difficulty that men would have in accepting the fact that they would 
not be able to earn it.
    The Council of Trent, in its opposition to the reformer's doctrine of 
justification by faith, and in defense of its doctrine of penance, 
declared: "Whosoever shall affirm that men are justified solely by the 
imputation of the righteousness of Christ...let him be accursed".  (23)  
And the Catholic Almanac says, "Penance is necessary for salvation...and 
was instituted by Christ for the forgiveness of sins".  (24)  
    The modern church teachings completely concur: "Many things are 
necessary for salvation.  All these things work together - faith, baptism, 
the Eucharist, the doing of good works, and others as well.  Redemption is 
one thing, salvation is quite another. There is nothing lacking on Christ's 
part; there is much to be done on ours."  (25)  Also, in a booklet 
published in 1967, under the sub-heading, "We Must Atone Too", it says that 
"even though the satisfaction of Christ was complete and universal, 
nevertheless all adult Christians are obliged to imitate their suffering 
Master and make personal satisfaction for their sins by good works.  (26)  
But the apostle Paul in his masterpiece on justification by faith says, 
"Having now been justified by His blood we shall be saved from the wrath of 
God through Him"  (27) (Rom.5:9).
    "And Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned unto him as 
righteousness.  Now to the one who works, the reward is not reckoned as 
grace, but as debt.  But to the one who does not work, but believes in Him 
who justifies the ungodly, his faith is reckoned as righteousness" (Rom. 
4:3-5).
    What a significant coincidence it is that this doctrine of 
justification by faith is given such prominence in the epistle to the 
Romans, since Rome later became the seat of the papacy!  It seems to be 
written there as if intended as a strong and permanent protest against the 
errors of the Roman Church.
    
                           Assurance of Salvation
                           ----------------------

    The first consequence of the doctrine of penance (as well as the 
doctrines of purgatory and indulgences) is that the Roman Catholic, though 
baptized and confirmed, can never have that assurance of his salvation and 
that sense of spiritually security which is such a blessing to the true 
Christian.  In proportion as he is spiritually sensitive, the person who 
holds to a works religion knows that he has not suffered as much as his 
sins deserve, and that he can never do as much as he should in order to be 
worthy of salvation.
    A dying Roman Catholic, after he has done all that he can do and after 
the last rites have been given to him, is told that he still must go to 
purgatory.  There he will suffer unknown torture, with no assurance as to 
how long it will continue, but with the assurance that if his relatives 
pray for his soul, and pay with sufficient generosity to have candles lit 
and have special Masses said for him, that his sufferings will be shortened 
somewhat.
    Oh what a contrast with all of that, is the death of the true believer 
who has the assurance that he goes straight to heaven into the immediate 
presence of Christ! (Phil. 1:23).  What a marvelous blessing is the true 
faith of the Christian, both in life and especially at the time of death!
    The Council of Trent even pronounced a curse upon anyone who presumed 
to say that he had assurance of salvation, or the the whole punishment for 
sin is forgiven along with that sin.  (28)  Such assurance is pronounced a 
delusion and a result of sinful pride.  Tome keeps her subjects in constant 
fear and insecurity.  Even at death, after extreme unction has been 
administered and after thousands of rosary prayers have been said "for the 
repose of the soul", the priest still cannot give assurance of salvation.  
The person is never "good enough" but must serve in purgatory prison to be 
purified of venial sins before he can be admitted to the celestial city.  
No one can be truly happy or truly at peace.  And particularly in spiritual 
matters, a state of doubt and uncertainty continues for one's whole life, 
and right into the grave.
    But God wants us to be saved, and according to the Bible the Holy 
Spirit can give us the assurance that we have salvation when we have a 
true, intimate relationship with the Son of God (I John 5:9-12).  But in 
Romanism, one must work hard for it and must pay dearly for it, and after 
he has done all the the priest has prescribed, he still cannot know whether 
he has it or not.  And through it all, there stands the anathema of the 
Council of Trent against all who affirm the certainty of their salvation.  
Hence, there cannot truly be found anywhere a Roman Catholic, consistent to 
what his church teaches, who enjoys the true assurance of eternal life.

                                 Conclusion
                                 ----------

    It is obvious by even this brief glimpse into the doctrines of mortal 
and venial sins, confession, penance, and purgatory, the the Roman Catholic 
Church has constructed one of the most unbiblical doctrinal systems that 
has ever been considered "Christian".  The fear, anguish, and religious 
bondage that such a system of "reward and punishment" creates, has 
tormented millions of lives for centuries, and continues to prey on those 
who are ignorant of the biblical way of salvation.
    To merely call such a system "a cult", would be to throw it into the 
vast category of religions and quasi-religions that are currently making 
the rounds of our college campuses and city streets, snatching up many-an-
unsuspecting youth.  No, the Roman Church is not a cult.  It's an empire!  
With its own ruler, its own laws, and its own subjects!  The empire has no 
borders it encompasses the globe with its eye on every person who does not 
vow allegiance.  It calls the members of other faiths "separated brethren"  
(29)  and has as its goal the eventual bringing together of everyone under 
its flag.
    I know that many will not be convinced or moved by this article (or any 
of the others) to make such a conclusion.  They are impressed by what 
they've heard about recent stirrings among the Catholics in the 
"Charismatic renewal".  Many evangelicals (especially charismatics) have 
been thrilled by the reports of Catholics speaking in tongues, dancing in 
the Spirit, having nights of joy and praise, even attending "charismatic 
Masses".
    Mouths that used to speak out boldly against the Church of Rome have 
been quieted by the times.  It no longer is in vogue to speak of the pope 
as "the anti-christ"  (30)  or the Catholic Church as the "whore of 
Babylon".  Now Protestants unwittingly believe that "our differences are 
not so great".  Ah, that is just what She wants us to think!
    I've never completely understood why God led me to write these 
articles.  But it becomes more clear with each day of study, and each page 
of research.  Never has something so black and wicked, gotten away with 
appearing so holy and mysteriously beautiful...for so long!
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 1] Venial - easily excused or forgiven; pardonable - American Heritage 
    Dictionary.
 2] A subject which we hope to cover in a future chronicle.
 3] A church council that met between 1963-1965.
 4] "Sunday obligation" can also be fulfilled by attending a Saturday 
    evening Mass.
 5] Which is only allowed once in a person's life - and if a person were to 
    die immediately after baptism, Rome says he will go "straight to 
    heaven."  Otherwise, the only other conditions by which a Catholic may 
    be assured he will go directly to heaven immediately upon death, is to 
    die a "saint" ( a completely perfect and sanctified person), or to die a 
    martyr's death.  All others must do some time in purgatory.
 6] Baptism is also the only case where all sin is washed away, and both the 
    eternal and temporal punishments due to sin are canceled.
 7] Absolution - release from punishment; acquittal; remission of sins 
    declared officially by a priest - Webster's Dictionary.
 8] Primarily for use by those who are joining the Roman Catholic Church.
 9] Instructions for Non-Catholics, p.93.
10] Although monthly confession is said to be more satisfactory.
11] Roman Catholicism, pps. 197-199 (from here on referred to as "R.C.").
12] The doctrine of purgatory rests on the assumption that while God 
    forgives sin, His justice nevertheless demands that the sinner must 
    suffer the full punishment due to him for his sin before he will be 
    allowed to enter heaven.
13] One of the seven sacraments also known as "anointing of the sick" or 
    "the last rites," and administered when a person is near death.
14] The Baltimore Catechism, p. 329.
15] The official title for confession to an authorized priest in a 
    confession box.  It is called "auricular" because it is spoken 
    secretly, into the ear of the priests.
16] "R.C." p. 199.
17] "R.C." p. 203.
18] The seven sacraments are: Baptism, Confirmation, Holy Eucharist, 
    Penance, Holy Orders, Matrimony, and Extreme Unction.
19] The Baltimore Catechism, p. 300.
20] Indulgences are remissions of so many days or months or years of 
    punishment in purgatory - a subject which we will cover in depth in a 
    future chronicle.
21] Instructions for Non-Catholics, p. 95.
22] "R.C." pps. 257-258.
23] Council of Trent, section 6.
24] The Catholic Almanac, pps. 269, 559.
25] "The Apostles Creed" published by the Knights of Columbus, pps. 18-19.
26] "You Shall Rise Again" published by the Knights of Columbus, p. 3.
27] See also: Eph. 2:8-10, Rom. 1:17, 3:21, 22, 28, 5:1, 18-19, 11:6, John 
    3:36, Gal. 2:21, 3:11.
28] "R.C." p. 267.
29] The term used by Vatican II to describe the members of Eastern 
    Orthodox, Anglican, and Protestant churches.
30] Although the following people unhesitatingly did: Martin Luther, John 
    Bunyan, John Huss, John Wycliffe, John Calvin, William Tyndale, John 
    Knox, Thomas Becon, John Wesley, Samuel Cooper, John Cotton, and 
    Jonathan Edwards.



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




====[ The Christian BBS - Vic., B.C., (604)-478-2789, 8,N,1 - 24 Hrs. ]====

                           CATHOLIC CHRONICLE IV
     
                        What Did Vatican II Really Change?
                        ----------------------------------
     
                     Edited and compiled by Keith Green
     
            Last Days Ministries, Box 40, Lindale, TX 75771-0040


    The Roman Catholic Church is very proud of two distinct things: 1) that 
it has never changed, and 2) that it has changed very much!  I realize that 
number 2 seems to contradict number 1, but anyone who has studied church 
history even briefly, will be able to grasp what I'm trying to say.
    First, Rome is very emphatic about making clear these unalterable 
facts:
    A. That she is the original and only church founded by Jesus Christ 
upon the earth.
    B. That her head, the pope, has the authority handed down from the 
"first pope," Simon Peter, through "apostolic succession," (1) to sit in 
the place of Jesus as the undisputed leader of all true Christians on 
earth.
    C. That her traditions and interpretations of scripture are the only 
basis for forming the rules and guidelines that Christians everywhere 
should live by.
    D. And that her dogmas and doctrines, although they can be clarified, 
enlarged, or re-stated for the sake of changing times, can never, ever be 
abolished, contradicted, or altered.  They are quite literally, "Canon 
Law."
    On the other hand, modern Roman Catholics are immensely pleased with 
the reforms and evolution they have seen in their Church, especially since 
the cataclysmic "Second Vatican Council" (more commonly know as "Vatican 
II").  They point to how much has been done to open the way for "all 
Christians everywhere to finally come together!"  This, of course, does 
seem very exciting, especially since Rome has been largely on the defensive 
since the Reformation.  Starting with the Council of Trent in 1546, there 
has been one papal decree after another, which has completely make it 
impossible (even forbidden) for Catholics to have any "fellowship" with 
Protestants.
    Ah, but "time heals all wounds" they say, and like everything else, the 
giant chasm between Protestant and catholic now seems with the passing of 
centuries, to appear like just a "little misunderstanding."  And Vatican 
II, which included such sweeping reforms as allowing Mass to be said in the 
common local language, and no longer forbidding  Catholics to read a 
Protestant Bible, or attend a Protestant church service, seemed to make the 
differences between Rome and the rest of the fragmented Christian world 
look very petty.
    As you probably might guess, I do not believe this to be the case.  In 
fact, in my research and studies I have only found the opposite to be true,  
Yes indeed, the Catholic Church is changing!  It has probably never changed 
so much in all its history as during the past generation, but it has not 
changed one, single, solitary doctrine!  Each and every point of dogma that 
has alarmed evangelical theologians for the past 400 years remains the 
same, exactly as written, and in full force!
    But because of all the changed garments, all the reformed liturgies and 
ceremonies, and the resulting freedom of worship, Catholics everywhere (as 
well as many Protestants) have mistakenly believed that something 
substantial has really changed!  But this is not a surprise, it has 
happened before many times in history.  When you change the key, the 
instruments, or the rhythm of a song, almost everyone will believe you 
have a new song.  Only those who listen carefully to the lyrics, or who 
know their music well, will realize that yes, the style is different, but 
the song is the same!
    The whole thing seems so sad to me, when I realize how very few there 
are among Catholics (and Protestants) who really know what Roman 
Catholicism teaches.  It is truly shocking!  And what's even more alarming, 
is the potential for the devil to pull the wool over people's eyes because 
of their ignorance.
    I have received many letters from Catholics in response to the first 
three Chronicles, which have basically said this: "The Catholic Church has 
really changed!  why not use the current beliefs and teachings that are a 
result of Vatican II?"  Believe me, in each of my articles, I was doing 
just that!  I would be a fool to be refuting doctrines and teaching that 
are no longer being used.  But because Catholic worship is based so much on 
ritual, ceremony, and symbolic outward forms, the average Catholic believes 
with all his heart that when he sees these surface things altered, that his 
church has really changed!  You have only to look at the documents of 
Vatican II to see that this is not the case.

                          The Need for Vatican II
                          -----------------------

    In the early 1960's, the Vatican knew that there was a need to give the 
Church a face-lift.  Many of its policies seemed out of place, and most of 
its forms of worship were stiff and outdated.  There was a feeling among 
the bishops that the Church needed to evolve with the times, and there was 
also a growing to re-unite with Rome, that she was going to have to give 
herself a more pleasant and appealing appearance.  There was also criticism 
from her own ranks that her doctrines needed to be clarified and "re-
stated" in a more simple and less dogmatic tone than previous councils had 
done.
    Thus the Second Vatican Council was called by Pope John XXIII in 1962, 
and continued under Pope Paul VI until 1965 when it issued "The Documents 
of Vatican II," each on different aspects of church teaching and doctrine.  
The spirit and attitude of these documents were remarkably different from 
any the Roman Church had ever produced.  They were full of scriptural 
references, and did not include any blatant "curses" on those who did not 
agree (as previous councils had done).  They were revolutionary in freeing 
individual parish priests to conduct Masses in the way they best could 
reach the local culture and community.  This, as well as changes in church 
administration and religious freedom were the main results of the Council.
    In the following years, there were other changes that proceeded out of 
Rome as a result of the new attitudes which were born from Vatican II.  
These included the removal of the strict requirement to refrain from eating 
meat on Fridays (and also the command to fast during Lent).  Although these 
practices were still encouraged, they were now optional instead of 
mandatory.  The whole Church seemed to be loosening up.  And ecumenical 
leaders the world over were beginning to see the light at the end of the 
church-unity tunnel.
    But in the midst of all this, a few ardent Christians still stubbornly 
pointed out that although the procedure and the language of the Mass might 
have changed, the meaning of it still remained very much the same.  And 
though the outward forms and words used by Rome had been altered much, the 
things she taught and believed had only been confirmed and repeated in the 
soft and soothing tone of the Vatican II documents.

                          The Charismatic Movement
                          ------------------------

    And then came the "charismatic renewal" seemingly out of nowhere!  With 
the Pope's blessing, Catholics were taking part in charismatic Masses, 
speaking in tongues, prophesying, singing and shouting side by side with 
Evangelical Protestants!  Everyone was so excited - they thought, "Now 
we've got the devil licked!"  Why, doctrine wasn't important anymore, that 
was for seminary students and old, stuffy theologians!  but as the 
excitement started to quiet down a little, the Protestants noticed that a 
few of their Catholic brothers and sisters were still praying to Mary, and 
were even offering prayers for their dead relatives in the prayer meetings.
    It soon became apparent that unity was not going to be as easy as it 
had seemed at first.  Protestants began to make inquiries, and they started 
bothering their Catholic friends too much with questions like, "Do you 
think the Pope is saved?"  As you can see, the whole future of the 
ecumenical movement hinges on this all-important question: "Can a Roman 
Catholic be considered a genuine believer (according to the Bible), and 
still believe the things the Roman Church teaches?"

                 The Things That Vatican II Did Not Change
                 -----------------------------------------

    To help answer that question, we have prepared a list of teachings and 
practices (see next page) that have been adopted and perpetuated by the 
Roman Catholic Church over the last 1600 years.  It is important to note 
that not one of these were altered at all by the Second Vatican Council.
     
                       A Scholar Looks at Vatican II
                       -----------------------------

    Dr. Loraine Boettner, noted Evangelical authority on Roman Catholic 
doctrine, takes an in-depth look at the documents of Vatican II in the 
preface to the fifth edition of his book Roman Catholicism.  Dr. Boettner 
writes:
    "The Second Vatican Council, which closed late in 1965, made changes in 
the liturgy, administrative practices, and in the matter of religious 
freedom.  It repeated the claim that the Roman Catholic Church is the only 
true church, although it did recognize that other churches contain some 
elements of truth.
    "But Pope John XXIII, who called the first session, and Pope Paul VI, 
who presided over the later sessions (as well as several prominent cardinal 
and theologians), took care to emphasize that no changes would be made in 
the doctrinal structure of the Church.  However, Pope Paul did promulgate 
[declare] one new doctrine, which asserts that `Mary is the Mother of the 
Church.'  The primary purpose of the Council was to update the liturgy and 
administrative practices and so to make the Church more efficient and more 
acceptable to the 20th century world.
    "The introduction of the `New Mass,' for instance, brought about a 
change in language - Latin is no longer required, except in the prayer of 
consecration.  But as Protestants, it is not important to us whether the 
Mass is said in Latin or English or Swahili - it is not the language of the 
Mass that we object to, it is its content and meaning.  (See Chronicle II, 
`The Sacrifice of the Mass').
    "On previous occasions, Rome has changed her tactics when old methods 
became ineffective, but she has never changed her nature.  In any religious 
organization, doctrine is the most basic and important part of its 
structure, since what people believe determines what they do.  An official 
document, `The Constitution on the Church' prepared by the Council and 
approved by the Pope, reaffirms basic Catholic doctrine precisely as it 
stood before the Council met.
    The doctrine of papal infallibility is restated.  We are told that when 
`by a definitive act he proclaims a doctrine of faith and morals...his 
definitions, of themselves, and not by the consent of the Church, are 
justly called, irreformable (Article 25).  The pope has lost none of his 
powers.  He remains the absolute ruler in the Roman Church.  But if papal 
decrees past and present are `irreformable, `what hope is there for real 
reform in the Church of Rome?

    Although many of these beliefs were practiced earlier than the dates 
given, they did not become binding on all Catholics until they were 
officially adopted by church councils and proclaimed by the Pope as dogmas 
of faith.  All dates are approximate.

    1. Presbyter (or elders) were first called priests by Lucian...2nd 
       century.
    2. Prayers for the dead...A.D. 300.
    3. The VENERATION (2) of angels and dead saints and the use of 
       images...375.
    4. The Mass as a daily celebration was adopted...394.
    5. The beginning of the exaltation of Mary, and the first use of the 
       term "Mother of God" by the Council of Ephesus...431.
    6. Priests began to dress different from the laity and to wear special 
       clothes...500.
    7. Extreme Unction (3) ...526.
    8. The doctrine of purgatory was first established by Gregory the 
       Great...593.
    9. Prayers began to be offered to Mary, dead saints, and angels...600.
   10. The first man was proclaimed "Pope" (Boniface III)...610.
   11. Veneration of the cross, images, and relics authorized...788.
   12. Holy water, mixed with a pinch of salt and blessed by a priest was 
       authorized in...850.
   13. Veneration of Saint Joseph...890.
   14. College of cardinals begun...927.
   15. Canonization of dead saints, first by Pope John XV...995.
   16. The Mass developed gradually as a sacrifice, attendance was made 
       obligatory in...11th century.
   17. The celibacy of the priesthood was decreed by Pope Hildebrand, 
       Boniface VII...1079.
   18. The rosary, or prayer beads copied from Hindus and Mohammadans) was 
       introduced by Peter the Hermit...1090.
   19. The Inquisition (5) of "Heretics" was instituted by the Council of 
       Verona...1184, and was legalized and promoted by the Fourth Lateran 
       Council in 1215.
   20. The sale of Indulgences...1190.
   21. The seven sacraments defined by Peter Lombard...12th century.
   22. The dogma of transubstantiation was decreed by Pope Innocent III
       ...1215.
   23. Confession of sins to the priest at least once a year was instituted 
       by Pope Innocent III in the Lateran Council...1215.
   24. The adoration of the wafer (host) decreed by Pope Honorius III
       ...1220.
   25. The The scapular (6) invented by Simon Stock of England...1251.
   26. The doctrine of purgatory proclaimed a dogma by the Council of 
       Florence...1439.
   27. Tradition is declared of equal authority with the Bible by the 
       Council Trent...1546.
   28. The Apocryphal Books were added to the Bible by the Council of 
       Trent...1545.
   29. The Immaculate Conception (7) of Mary was proclaimed by Pope Pius IX 
       in 1854.
   30. Pope Pius IX condemns all scientific discoveries not approved by 
       by the Roman Church...1864.
   31. Infallibility of the pope in matters of faith and morals proclaimed 
       by the First Vatican Council...1870.
   32. Pius XI condemned the public schools...1930.
   33. Pius XI reaffirmed the doctrine that Mary is "The Mother of God"
       ...1931.
   34. The dogma of the Assumption (8) of the Virgin Mary was proclaimed by 
       Pope Pius XII...1950.
   35. Mary proclaimed the Mother of the Church by Pope Paul VI...1965.

    "The document on the Church repeats in substance the teaching of the 
Council of Trent that `priests and bishops are the representatives of God 
on earth...justly, therefore, they are called not only angels, but gods, 
holding as they do the place of authority of God on earth.'  (Catechism of 
Trent).
    "In fact, no more sweeping claims were made by the Council of Trent 
(1545-1563), nor by the First Vatican Council (1870), than are made in 
these documents from Vatican II.  Despite all the claims to the contrary, 
the Council has firmly maintained the doctrine of the primacy of Peter (4) 
and of papal succession.  In his book, Ecclesiam Suam, Pope Paul expressed 
his distress because of what some of the `separated brethren' (9) say about 
the pope as the stumbling block in the way of church unity.  He said, `Do 
not some of them say that if it were not for the primacy of the pope, the 
reunion of the separated churches with Catholic Church would be easy?  We 
beg the separated brethren to consider the inconsistency of this position, 
not only in that, without the pope, the Catholic Church would no longer be 
Catholic, but also because without the supreme decisive pastoral office of 
Peter, the unity of the Church of Christ would utterly collapse.'
    "We must say that at this point we agree with the Pope, at least to 
this extent, that if the Roman Catholic Church were reformed according to 
scripture, it would have to be abandoned.  But the gross errors concerning 
salvation still remain.  Moreover, the Council did nothing toward removing 
the more than 100 anathemas or curses pronounced by the Council of Trent on 
the Protestant churches and beliefs.  If there is to be any true unity, 
surely this would seem the logical place to start."

                                 Conclusion
                                 ----------

    We could not find a more fitting conclusion than Dr. Boettner's:
    "The `Constitution on the Church' makes it abundantly clear that Rome 
has no intention of revising any of her basic doctrine, but only of 
updating her methods and techniques for more efficient administration and 
to present a more attractive appearance.  This is designed to make it 
easier for the Eastern Orthodox, Anglican, and Protestant churches to 
return to her fold.  There is no indication that she has any intentions of 
entering into genuine give-and-take church unity negotiations.  Her purpose 
is not union, but ABSORPTION.  Church union with Rome is strictly a one-way 
street.  The age-old danger that Protestantism has faced from the Roman 
Church has not diminished; in fact, it may well have increased.  For 
through this less-offensive posture and this superficial ecumenicism, Rome 
is much better situated to carry out her program of eliminating opposition 
and moving into a position of world dominance.  AN INFALLIBLE CHURCH SIMPLY 
CANNOT REPENT."
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 1) The Roman Catholic Church teaches that Jesus Christ ordained the 12 
    apostles to the priesthood at the Last Supper, and to their successors, 
    the Roman priesthood, Jesus promised and guaranteed His continual 
    presence in their teaching and governing until the end of time.
 2) Veneration - profound respect or reverence; worship - American Heritage 
    Dictionary, Webster's Dictionary.
 3) Extreme Unction, or "Anointing of the Sick" - one of the seven 
    sacraments, in which a priest anoints and prays for one in danger of 
    death.
 4) The doctrine that Christ has given Peter the key role of lawful 
    authority...that Peter would be His chief ambassador, His authentic 
    vicar (pope), and this power continues to be extended to Peter's 
    successors through the ages - the popes.
 5) Inquisition - the act of inquiring into a matter; an investigation - 
    American Heritage Dictionary.  Lucius III decreed that bishops should 
    take action against heretics.  A characteristic of this decree was that 
    a suspect, once convicted of being a heretic, was to be handed over to 
    the secular arm for punishment.  Before the Inquisition ran its course, 
    historians estimate that 5 to 15 million people lost their lives 
    through torture and and execution (From: A History of Christianity in 
    the World by Clyde L. Manschreck).
 6) Piece of brown cloth with a picture of the Virgin, supposed to contain 
    supernatural power to protect from all dangers, to those who wear it on 
    naked skin.
 7) This doctrine maintains that the Virgin Mary was in the first instance 
    of her conception, preserved from all stain of original sin.
 8) The Catholic dogma that Mary ascended bodily into heaven without dying.
 9) The term used by Vatican II to describe the members of other non-
    Catholic Christian faiths.     


    To be continued.............................
   


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

