
the strange case of Mssr. Abelard Reuchelin and his deduction that...


Christianity is a hoax

"the New Testament, the Church, and Christianity, were all the creation of the Calpurnius
Piso family, who were Roman aristocrats.  The New Testament and all the characters in
it...are all fictional."  And so begins one of the most amazing little pamphlets that I've
come across in many an aeon.  Its conclusions, if true, are astounding, for they shake the
foundations of history and make a mockery of the wits and intellects of a great host of
epoch bending sages, philosophers, and theologians.  Thus the gospel according to one
Abelard Reuchelin, an earnest researcher of historic genealogies who specialized in
ancient families.  he began to zero in on one family in particular, the Piso family of
Roman Patricians, who dominated the Roman aristocracy over several generations, producing
caesars, consuls, generals, statesmen, philosophers, historians, scholars and bishops of
the early Church.  blood and marriage relations within the Piso family included Tacitus,
Pliny the Younger, Suetonius, Trajan, Vitellius, Vespasian, Julius Caesar's uncle© Lucius
Piso, Galba Caesar, and on and on.  Rome was essentially ruled by the same tribe directly
for over two hundred years, and indirectly via the Church up to the present.

what did Mssr. Abelard discover, then?  merely that the authorship of the New Testament,
and hence Christianity,  was an ongoing Piso family project for over two generations,
utilizing some of the best literary minds of the age as a battering ram against a series
of alarmingly effective Jewish revolutions primarily in Judea, but also spreading to
Egypt.  the Pharisee party was in a powerful geopolitical position to choke trade routes
and a powerful ideological position to challenge a variety of what they viewed as
idolatries, with a monotheism that was at its core anti©slavery.  Roman abuses and the
abuses of their puppet regimes had created a tinderbox that could easily be fanned into a
full scale insurrection of the Eastern provinces.  It was obvious to the patrician
strategists that the Jewish ideology had to be countered on its own terms.  similar to the
fostering of American pacifism in the 1930's by Germany, a messianic splinter religion was
planted within Judea which preached a pacifist message.  the writings of Matthew, Mark,
Luke and John, the subsequent Epistles, the personages including the Christ figure, the
apostles, the later important converts, Simon Peter, Saul/Paul, etc. were fabricated out
of various Eastern mythologies, and in some cases, the biographies of the conspirators,
themselves.  

the case for this argument is made stronger by a glaring and obvious body of supporting
historic fact, although fact by omission.  one of the great conundrums to Biblical
research has been the nagging lack of independent contemporary documentation making any
reference whatsoever to a nascent Galilean religion.  All extant literature dating from
before 100 A.D. which makes reference to early Christianity is from the pen of the
conspirators, often writing under pseudonyms.  Reuchelin claims that the contemporary
Jewish General and historian© Flavius Josephus is, in fact, Arius Calpurnius Piso. 
However the real dogbone to this bare cupboard of references to early Christianity is to
be found in the strange silence that surrounds researches into the famous Dead Sea
Scrolls; leather, parchment and metal scrolls written in Hebrew which have been unearthed
in the hundreds, often complete and in excellent condition.  here are a records of
religious events, important commentaries and chronicles by a sect of Essene scribes and
scholars writing in Judea for a hundred years up to 70 A.D.  And nowhere is mention made
of a new religion, a Messiah, a worker of miracles, a preaching to multitudes, a trial and
crucifixion.  Nothing.  this silence is a great embarrassment to Biblical scholars and is
treated extremely gingerly by the Biblical academic community.  Perhaps Abelard Reuchelin
is on to something.  you can decide for yourself by getting the pamphlet and a package of
photocopied abstracts from the Abelard Reuchelin Foundation, Box 5652, Kent WA 98064 or
Vector Associates, Box 6215, Bellevue, WA 98008.

 
