               STUDIES IN CONTRASTS:  THE DOCTRINE OF CHRIST

     The Bible contains many statements that on the surface seem to fight
one another.  It tells us to be both happy and sad, agressive and meek,
dependent and independent, peaceful and warlike.

     Why is this?  Partly because the Bible equips us to respond in
different ways to ever-changing circumstances and needs.  In Ecclesiastes
3:1-4, Solomon wrote:

          To everything there is a season, A time for every purpose under
          heaven:  A time to be born, and a time to die; A time to plant,
          and a time to pluck...; A time to kill, and a time to heal; A
          time to break down, and a time to build up; A time to weep, and a
          time to laugh; A time to mourn, and a time to dance.

Solomon went on to say, "(God) has made everything beautiful in its time"
(Eccl. 3:11).  It's for good reason that the Bible encourages us to break
down and to build up, to laugh and to cry, to heal and to kill.  The
challenge of spiritual maturity is to understand how to respond to these
contrasting truths. 

     RBC senior research editor Herb Vander Lugt has written this booklet
to show how contrasting bibilical ideas contribute to a more complete
knowledge of the doctrine of Christ.  It is our prayer that through these
pages you will gain a better understanding of the life-changing truths of
the "whole counsel of God" (Acts 20:27).



             THE RESURRECTION IS A MATTER OF : REASON / FAITH

     Many well-educated Christian leaders set forth in great detail the
historical and logical evidence for Christ's resurrection, believing that
it has great apologetic value.  But other Christian scholars, equally
convinced that Jesus conquered death, see little value in this evidence. 
They insist that we must accept the biblical teaching about Christ's
resurrection by faith alone.  Which view is correct?  Can both be right?


                  The Resurrection is a Matter of Reason

1.   Christ's resurrection is a well-supported, historical event reported
     by contemporaries of Christ and is preserved as a matter of historical
     record in thousands of good manuscript copies (see Luke 1:1-4; 1 Cor.
     15:3-8).

2.   The changed lives of the apostles is a powerful evidence of their
     belief that Jesus truly conquered death (Acts 2:14-40; 3:11-4:21; cp.
     John 18:15-18, 25-27).

3.   The church was founded in the first century on the message of the
     resurrection (Acts 2:22-36; 3:13-15; 4:8-10).

4.   Sunday, the day of our Lord's resurrection, replaced the Jewish
     Sabbath as the day of worship well before AD 100 (Acts 20:7; 1 Cor.
     16:2).

5.   Paul used logic to argue that the ressurection of Christ from the dead
     is essential to Christianity.  He said that without it the gospel
     message would be a lie, he would be a liar, and Christians would be
     deceived and without hope (1 Cor. 15:12-19).


                   The Resurrection is a Matter of Faith

1.   Historical events by their very nature cannot be laboratory-tested and
     therefore cannot be viewed as scientifically provable.

2.   The resurrection of a dead person is so contrary to scientific laws
     that believing in it, no matter how great the historical evidence,
     requires a step of faith.

3.   Faith, which God demands as the condition for salvation, requires
     trusting what the Word of God says about that which cannot be seen
     (Rom. 8:24,25; Heb 11:1,6).


Explanation

     In Peter's sermon to the assembled Jews just 50 days after Christ's
resurrection, he could declare that all the apostles were witnesses to the
fact that they saw their resurrected Savior.  Luke, the author of Acts,
reported these words and went to great lengths to make sure that he was
giving an accurate report of what happened (Luke 1:1-4; Acts 1:1-3).  Even
liberal scholars believe that Paul wrote 1 Corinthians only 35 years after
the resurrection.  And in 1 Corinthians 15:1-11 he could affirm the
historicity of the resurrection of Christ without fear of rebuttal, because
many people who had seen the resurrected Christ were still alive and could
testify that they had seen Him.  This is first-hand testimony to the fact
of the resurrection, the kind of evidence that is acceptable in a court of
law today.

     This historical evidence possesses real value.  It shows us that God
does not expect us to take a blind, irrational leap of faith.  However, we
must realize that all this evidence and logic does not provide scientific
proof.  The non-Christian is not forced to believe in the resurrection in
the same way he must believe in something that is proven through laboratory
evidence.

     The New Testament writers, though affirming the fact of the
resurrection, also emphasized the need for faith.  Paul declared that our
hope involves fiath.  If it were an expectation based on scientific proof,
it would no longer be hope (Rom. 8:24,25).  Moreover, the writer of
Hebrews, though affirming the historical validity of the gospel, declared
that we take a step of faith when we believe in God (11:6).

     We do not face a problem of choosing between belief and reason.  Nor
is it a matter of using reason as far as it will take us and then taking a
leap of faith.  Rather it is using our minds and exercising faith at the
same time.

     F. F. Bruce points out that believing in the resurrected Christ,
though involving our thought processes, is at heart a moral decision. 
Certainty comes when the Holy Spirit witnesses with our spirit (Rom.
8:16,17).


Resolution

     We can be encouraged by the solit evidence that supports the
historicity of Christ's resurrection.  Yet belief in it calls for the
exercise of faith--a reasonable faith to be sure but faith nonetheless.


Application

*    We should be able to give those to whom we witness good evidence for
     our belief in the resurrection of Jesus Christ (1 Pet. 3:15).

*    Because we cannot prove the resurrection by empirical evidence, we
     must urge poeple to take a reasonable step of faith.

*    We must walk in obedience and continual dependence on the Holy Spirit
     so that we can enjoy the certainty of faith that comes through His
     inner witness (Rom. 8:16,17).



                 CHRIST CAME TO:  LIVE FOR US / DIE FOR US

     Popular books and movies about Christ tend to emphasize His exemplary
life, but they portray His death as untimely and unfortunate.  In sharp
contrast, many conservative Christians say very little about Christ's life
and teachings.  Instead they focus primarily on the cross and the empty
tomb.  Whis is it:  Did Christ come to live for us, or did He come to die
for us?


Christ Came to Live for Us.

1.   By living as God among men, He showed us what God is like (John 14:9).

2.   By living out the human experience, He showed us how God wants us to
     live (1 John 2:6).

3.   By living an unembittered, unretaliating, uncomplaining life even in
     the face of suffering and death, He showed us how to endure the
     problems of life (1 Pet. 2:21-23).

4.   By living a perfect life, He was qualified to be our Savior (Heb.
     5:8,9).

5.   By living obediently in the face of temptation, He showed us how to
     overcome evil (Matt. 4:1-11; Heb. 2:18; 4:15).


Christ Came to Die for Us.

1.   His death on the cross was predicted in the Old Testament as His
     central mission (Ps. 22; Is. 52:13-15; Is. 53).

2.   His death on the cross was the means by which He became our Savior,
     fulfilling the message of the angel to the virgin Mary (Matt. 1:21;
     Heb. 2:14,15).

3.   His death on the cross was announced by John the Baptist at the
     beginning of His ministry when John declared, "Behold!  The Lamb of
     God who takes away the sin of the world" (John 1:29).

4.   His impending death on the cross was in His mind from the very
     beginning of His public ministry as "the hour" for which He had come
     into this world (John 2:19-22; 10:11, 17, 18; 12:23,27; 13:1; 16:32;
     17:1).

5.   His death on the cross was just as necessary for the salvation of
     sinners as the death of a seed is to produce a plant (John
     12:24,32,33).


Explanation

     Yes, Jesus Christ lived for us.  He did so for a little more than 30
years to reveal God and to show us how to live.  He told Philip that all
who had observed Him had seen the Father (Joh 14:9).  John gives us the
standard for our lives, saying that we should "walk as He walked" (1 John
2:6).  And Peter told us that Jesus showed us how to suffer unjust
treatment (1 Pet. 2:21).

     However, it is also true that He came to die for us.  At the very
beginning of Christ's ministry, John the Baptist referred to Him as the
"Lamb of God"--an allusion to His coming death as a Lamb.  The Old
Testament writers predicted His death as a sacrifice for sinners (Ps. 22;
Is. 52,53).  Jesus declared Himself to be the good Shepherd who would give
His life for the sheep.  And Paul announced the reason for His death: 
"Christ died for our sins" (1 Cor. 15:3); that is, to pay the penalty we
all deserve at the hand of a holy God (Rom. 6:23).

Resolution

     As you can see, the Bible teaches that Christ came both to live for us
and to die for us.  Neither His life without His death nor His death
without His life would be adequate for our complete salvation.

Application

*    We must recognice that our salvation is entirely a gift of God, earned
     for us by the substitutionary life and death of Jesus Christ.

*    We must earnestly seek to follow the example of Jesus Christ, being
     satisfied with nothing less than a perfect life.

*    We must view our good conduct as a means of glorifying God and
     expressing our thanks to Him, but never as a means of contributing to
     our salvation.



                  CHRIST CAME TO BRING:  PEACE / DIVISION

     An elderly American citizen who emigrated from the Ukraine as a young
man tells how he experienced severe conflict with his parents, relatives,
and acquaintances when he became a Christian.

     He had grown up in the state church but turned to atheism because of
the hypocrisy of the clergy.  When he began to proclaim his unbelief
zealously, his family was disturbed, but they didn't oppose him.

     One day, however, his atheism was challenged by a Christian.  After a
few weeks of daily meetings, he accepted Jesus Christ as his personal
Savior.  He went home that evening to tell his parents what had happened,
thinking that they would be glad.  Much to his surprise, his father became
so angry that he struck him on the head and ordered him to leave the house.

     His family and acquaintances turned against him and his employer fired
him.  Strangely, they preferred atheism to a vibrant faith in Christ.  He
did odd jobs and continued to be persecuted until he found a way to escape
to America.

     This man's Christianity caused conflict and division in his
relationships.  Is this what Jesus promised?  Didn't He come to bring
peace?

Christ Came to Bring Peace

1.   Zacharias, before Christ's birth, prophesied that the Messiah would
     "guide our feet into the way of peace" (Luke 1:78,79).

2.   Christ laid the basis for peace between God and us through His death
     on the cross (Rom. 5:1; Col 1:20).

3.   Christ gives those who trust Him an inner peace far beyond anything
     the world can offer (John 14:27).

4.   Christ calls on us to follow His example--to be peacemakers (Matt.
     5:9), to turn the other cheek (Matt. 5:39), and to love our enemies
     (Matt. 5:44).


Christ Came to Bring Division

1.   Christ often brings a "sword" instead of "peace" into family
     relationships, causing those who reject Him to hate those who believe
     in Him (Matt. 10:34-36).

2.   Christ said that those who followed Him would be hated by the world
     because the world hated Him, and because His followers would not
     belong to the world (John 15:18,19; 17:14).

3.   Christ divides people into two groups--those who receive Him and those
     who do not (John 1:11-13).

4.   Christ will bring about an eternal separation of those who believe in
     Him from those who do not believe (John 5:28,29).

Explanation

     By his atoning sacrifice on the cross, Christ paid the price for sin
and made it possible for sinners to be at peace with a holy God (Col.
1:19,20).  Jesus also gives believers who are trusting in Him the peace of
God (John 14:27).  This inner peace of God is the absence of spiritual
unrest and the assurance of His loving presence in the midst of all
circumstances.

     Yes, Jesus also said, "I did not come to bring peace but a sword"
(Matt. 10:34).  He then specified that belief in Him would divide family
relationships (v.35) and even create enemies of family members (v.36). 
People who reject Christ often hate those who accept Him because they are
offended by their testimony and conduct (John 17:14).

Resolution

     Jesus Christ made it possible for us to be at peace with God and to
have the inner peace of God.  But following Him puts us at odds with those
who reject Christ's rule over their lives, causing division and conflict.

Application

*    We should be thankful for the inner peace God gives us and do our best
     to promote a peaceful relationship between ourselves and others--both
     saved and unsaved.

*    We must not expect complete freedom from conflict with the unspiritual
     or unsaved.  A close walk with the Lord puts us at odds with those who
     are disobedient and rebellious.  

*    We must be willing to endure hatred and pray for those who persecute
     us (Matt. 5:44).



       JESUS CHRIST WAS:  EQUAL TO THE FATHER / LESS THAN THE FATHER

     The old man was respectful toward the young woman who was telling him
about her faith in Christ.  He knew quite a bit about the Bible and viewed
Jesus as more than a great teacher.  But he said, "I can't believe that He
is God.  There can be only one truly supreme Being.  Even Jesus said that
He wasn't as great as His Father."

     The young woman was quite unprepared for this response.  She had
always believed in Jesus' deity and equality with the Father.  But now she
was confronted with the fact that some Bible passages affirm His equality
with the Father while other seem to treat Him as less.

Jesus Christ was Equal to the Father

1.   He is eternal, like the Father.  He is called "Everlasting Father"
     (Is. 9:6), and the unchanging "I AM" (John 8:58).


2.   He is called God, like the Father (John 1:1; 20:28; Titus 2:13; Heb.
     1:8).

3.   He is referred to as Lord, like the Father (Joel 2:32; Rom. 10:13;
     Heb. 1:10-12).

4.   He is portrayed as the Creator of all things, like the Father (Col.
     1:16; Heb. 1:10; cp. Gen 1:1,26).

5.   He declared Himself to be the Son of God, using a term that His
     contemporaries understood as a claim to equality with the Father (John
     5:18).

6.   He stated His equality with the Father:  "I and My Father are one"
     (John 10:30-39).

7.   he revealed an authority that made Him equal to the Father when He
     forgave sins (Matt. 9:1-8).


Jesus Christ was Less than the Father

1.   Jesus declared, "My Father is greater than I" (John 14:28).

2.   Jesus grew in wisdom (Luke 2:52); the Father has always knows
     everything (Ps. 147:5).

3.   Jesus became tired (John 4:6); the Father never grows weary (Is.
     40:28-31).

4.   Jesus said He didn't know the day nor the hour of His return; the
     Father did (Matt. 24:36).

5.   Jesus said, "I can of Myself do nothing".  (John 5:30), affirming His
     dependence on the Father.

6.   Jesus often felt the need to pray to His Father (Matt. 14:23; 26:36;
     Luke 6:12; John 14:16).

7.   Jesus subjected Himself to His Father's will (Matt. 26:39; Heb. 10:5-
     7).

8.   Jesus' right to judge mankind was given to Him by the Father (John
     5:22,23).

Explanation

     The Bible strongly affirms Christ's essential equality with the
Father.  John 1:1 explicitly declares, "The Word was God."  To be God, He
had to be without any limitations--eternal, all-powerful, all-knowing,
everywhere present.  Moreover, Jesus identified Himself as the great "I AM"
of Exodus 3:14, declaring that He had existed from all eternity before
Abraham came into being (John 8:58).  The writer of Hebrews identified Him
as God, whose "throne is forever and ever" (Heb. 1:8).  Logic demands that
all three persons in the Trinity be co-equal and co-eternal.

     While on earth in His humanity, however, Jesus "grew in wisdom" (Luke
2:52), expressed His dependence on the Father (John 5:30), and declared His
Father to be greater than He (John 14:28).  He said these things because,
in becomming a human being, He had voluntarily let go of the rights,
powers, and honors that were His as God.  He did this so that He could be
completely human--enduring temptation, suffering, and even dying a painful
and shameful death.  He so fully identified with us that He actually
depended on the Holy Spirit to perform miracles (Matt. 12:28) and offered
Himself as a sacrifice on Calvery through the "eternal Spirit" (Heb. 9:14). 
But all the while He remained God.

     In heaven today, Jesus Christ possesses a glorified human body (Acts
1:9-11; 2:29-33; Heb. 10:12,13).  He is still God and man in one person
(Col. 1:15-20; Heb. 1:1-12).  However, He is no longer in the state of
humiliation, as He was when He lived on earth.  In His body He can be in
only one place at one time, but in the unity of the Trinity with the Father
and the Holy Spirit, He is present everywhere (Matt. 28:19,20).

Resolution

     Since Jesus is God, He is equal to the Father.  But in becoming a
member of the human family, He temporarily laid aside the independent
exercise of His divine rights and powers.

Application

*    We must honor Jesus Christ as God, recognizing that He is equal with
     the Father.

*    We must humbly asknowledge the great mystery that the eternal second
     person of the Trinity lives in a glorified human body.

*    We can rejoice in the assurance that though we will always be finite
     creatures, we will someday receive glorified bodies and be like Jesus
     (1 John 3:1-3).



                      CHRIST IS:  FIRSTBORN / ETERNAL

     Susan, a churchgoing young mother, had been taught to believe that
Jesus Christ is God.  But two members of a large religious group going from
house to house challenged her concept of Jesus Christ.  "The Bible says
that He is the firstborn over all creation", they stated.  "How then can He
be God if He is not eternal?"  They also pointed out that the Bible calls
Jesus "the only begotten Son".  Susan was perplexed.  She didn't know what
to say.


Christ is Firstborn and Begotten

1.   He became God's Son on a certain day (Ps. 2:7).

2.   He is the firstborn of a large family with many brothers and sisters
     (Rom. 8:29).

3.   He has the position of the oldest son in a family (Col. 1:15).

4.   He is "the only begotten Son" (John 1:14,18; 3:16,17; 1 John 4:9).

Christ is Eternal

1.   Isaiah gave Him the name "Everlasting Father" (Is. 9:6).

2.   Micah prophesied that the origins of the coming Messiah would be
     rooted in eternity (Mic. 5:2).

3.   Jesus claimed to have existed from eternity as the second person of
     the Trinity.  In Isaiah 9:6, He is given the name "Everlasting
     Father", which means that He is an eternal being.  Micah 5:2 declares
     that "His goings" (that is, His origin) reach back through all time
     into eternity.

          Jesus declared, "Most assuredly, I say to you, before Abraham
     was, I AM" (John 8:58).  The expression I AM indicates His
     timelessness and identifies Him as the eternal, unchanging Yahweh of
     Exodus 3:14.

          The words begotten and firstborn do not deny Christ's eternal
     existence.  The declaration, "You are My Son; today I have begotten
     You" (Ps. 2:7), is based on God's promise to David in 2 Samuel 7:14. 
     These words were spoken as a part of the coronation ritual for the
     kings in the Davidic line.  In the New Testament, they are linked to
     Christ's right to rule--as evidenced by His resurrection (Acts
     13:33,34; Rom. 1:4; Heb. 1:5,8; 5:5).


          The expression only begotten in John 1:14 is the translation of
     the Greek monogenes, from the root genes which means "kind" or
     "class".  The word begotten should not appear in the translation of
     this verse.  Jesus Christ is "in a class by Himself," "the only one of
     His kind," "unique."  He is unique in that He, though appearing in
     human form, existed from all eternity.

          The expression firstborn in Colossians 1:15 (also Rom. 8:29 and
     Heb. 1:6) refers to His place of preeminence as the God-man.  He
     possesses and exercises the rights of a firstborn son.

     Resolution

          As the second person or the Trinity, Jesus Christ existed from
     eternity, but His existence as a human being began when He was born of
     Mary.  The terms firstborn and only begotten relate to His God-man
     role and status.

     Application

     *    All who reject the absolute deity and full humanity of Jesus
          Christ are distorting the message of the Bible.

     *    All who believe on Jesus Christ as God-man and Savior should
          honor Him and make Him their Lord.




              CHRIST PAID FOR OUR SINS / WE PRAY FOR OUR SINS


     Ralph, a wealthy Christian businessman, became romantically involved
with his secretary.  He often took her to lunch and gave her expensive
presents.  Mary enjoyed these favors, soothing her conscience by telling
herself that she was being unjustly cheated of the better life because of
the small salary her husband made as a Christian worker.  Ignoring the
warnings of their church leaders, Ralph and Mary divorced their mates and
married each other.

     Within 2 years, Ralph developed physical problems.  He cries when he
talks about what he did, and says he remembers the warning of a friend who
told him he would suffer consequences for his sin.  But he had gone ahead,
confident that all the punishment for his sins had been paid for by Christ.

     His new wife is also quite unhappy.  The things money can buy don't
produce the pleasure she expected from them.  She feels trapped - caring
for a sick man she doesn't really love.

     Are both of these people paying for their sin?  If so, how does this
square with the idea that Jesus Christ paid for all of our sins on the
cross?


Christ Paid For Our Sins

1.   Christ died to take away our sin (John 1:29) and to release us from
     condemnation (Rom. 8:1).

2.   Christ's death is the basis on which our sins are paid for, once and
     for all (Heb. 9:25-28; 10:10-18), and through which we are given a
     completely new standing before God (Rom. 4:25).

3.   Christ's blood was shed so that our sins could be forgiven and not
     held against us (Matt. 26:28; Rom. 3:21-26; 5:6-11).

4.   Christ's death makes it possible for us to stand before God as "holy,
     and blameless" (Col. 1:21,22).


We Pay For Our Sins

1.   Moses paid for his sin of anger and disobedience by being forbidden to
     enter the Promised Land (Deut. 32:48-52; 34:1-12).

2.   The Bible warns both believers and unbelievers that sin has bad
     consequences (Gal. 6:7,8).

3.   Careless observance of the Lord's Supper was the cause for sickness
     and death among the believers in Corinth (1 Cor. 11:27-30).

4.   People who have been forgiven through faith in Christ will still stand
     before Him for judgement (2 Cor. 5:10).


Explanation

     The full penalty for all our sins has been paid by Christ.  Hebrews
9:27,28 tells us that just as Christ was once sacrificed to bear the sins
of many (all who trust Him), He will return to complete the salvation of
those who look for Him.  Paul, in Colossians 1:20-22, declared that Christ
amde peace between sinners and God through His death on the cross.  This
truth is reiterated throughout the Scriptures.

     Christ met the full requirements of God's just anger against sin. 
Therefore, God can forgive and accept us without violating His holy nature. 
At the moment we place our faith in Christ, God as our Judge declares us
righteous and accepts us into His family.  The forgiveness of 1 John 1:9
relates to our new relationship with God.  As our Father, He removes our
daily sins so that they will not be barriers to our fellowship with Him.

     Yes, Christ died for our sins.  But Paul warned believers against
fooling themselves into thinking they can sin with impunity.  He siad that
we will reap what we sow (Gal. 6:7).

     God may allow sin to work out its natural consequences - a broken
home, venereal disease, financial difficulty, a diseased liver - in the
life of a Christian.  Furthermore, He will chasten us like an earthly
father does a disobedient child (Heb. 12:6).

     In some cases, for example, He will bring pain, distress, or even
physical death (1 Cor. 11:30-32) to a Christain who refuses to turn away
from a sinful lifestyle.

     Ultimately, He will deal with unconfessed and unforsaken sin at the
judgment seat of Christ.  Every Christian will stand there to "receive the
things done in the body,...whether good or bad" (2 Cor. 5:10).  But this
will not be punishment.  Rather, it will be an evaluation of the quality of
our lives for the purpose of determining rewards.

Resolution

     God as Judge views us a guiltless because Jesus Christ has paid the
full penalty for our sins.  but as righteous Father He chastens us when we
are disobedient and lets us reap the natural consequences of our
transgressions.

Application

*    When we as believers fall (through deliberate transgressions) or fall
     (through weakness), we need not despair and think we will be condemned
     to hell.  Christ Jesus paid the complete price for all our sins --
     past, present, and future.  

*    We mock God and will reap sad consequences if we presume on His grace
     by living sinful lifestyles (see Gal 6:7,8).

*    We must always bear in mind that Christ knows our every thought, hears
     our every word, and observes our every deed, and that the quality of
     our lives will be evaluated at the judgement seat of Christ (2 Cor.
     5:10).



                 JESUS CHRIST:  IS / IS NOT GOD'S ONLY SON


     Jesus Christ is the only Son of God.  This has been the teaching of
Christians down through the centuries.  "Not so," say many people.  "The
Bible often refers to angels and people as the sons of God."  Some point to
Paul's statement in Acts 17:28 where he, speaking to pagan philosophers,
approvingly quoted one of their own writers who said, "For we are also His
offspring."  Since angels and people are called sons of God, how can it be
said that Jesus Christ is the only Son of God?

Jesus Christ is God's Only Son

1.   He is specifically referred to as the "only " Son  (John 1:18,
     3:16,18; 1 John 4:9).

2.   He is unique in His sonship in that He alone is the Son who is the
     "brightness" of God's glory, the "express image" of God's person, the
     One who is "upholding all things", the One who has "purged our sins",
     and "sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high" (Heb. 1:1-3).

3.   He is distinguished from the prophets in that God, who once revealed
     Himself through them, has now "spoken to us by His Son" (Heb. 1:1,2).

4.   He is distinguished from the angels in that He is the Son who is
     called "God", He is credited with the creation of all things, and He
     is said to be everalstingly the same (Heb. 1:5-14).


Jesus Christ is not God's Only Son

1.   Angels are called "sons of God" (Job 1:6; 2:1).

2.   The Israelites as individuals are designeated "the sons of the living
     God" (Hos. 1:10) and collectively as "My son" (Hos. 11:1).

3.   We have been taught to pray, "Our Father in heaven" (Matt. 6:9),
     indicating that we are His children.

4.   We are born into God's family and therefore are called His children (1
     John 3:1,2,10; 5:1,2).

5.   We are adopted as sons of God, co-heirs with Jesus Christ (Rom. 8:14-
     16; Gal. 4:4-7).

6.   We are assured that Jesus Christ is not ashamed to call us brothers
     (Heb. 2:10,11).


Explanation

     Passages like John 1:18, 3:16,18; and 1 John 4:9, which refer to Jesus
as the "only begotten Son", emphasize His uniqueness.  The Greek word
translated "only begotten" is better translated "unique Son" or "one and
only Son".  Moreover, in Hebrews 1:1-3 the author points out that Jesus
Christ's sonship is different from that of all creatures, even angels.  He
is the perfect reflection of God, something that cannot be said of any
created being.  Our Lord's sonship is therefore absolutely unique.

     In Job 1:6, angelic beings are referred to as the "sons of God".  They
are the sons of God because they were created by God with the capacity to
know Him and choose to obey or disobey Him.  In 1 John 3:2, believers are
called "children of God", an applicable term because we who have placed our
trust in Christ have been born into the family of God.  Like angels, we
were created as "sons of God", but we lost our family relationship through
sin.  Through faith in Christ we have received a new birth, which makes us
members of God's redeemed family.

     In Galatians 3:26, Paul refers to Christians as "sons of God", a title
that designates our status as mature sons and daughters, co-heirs with
Jesus Christ.  The apostle refers to our "adoption" (Rom. 8:15,23; Gal.
4:5), the act of God by which He gives us the rights and privileges of full
inheritance.

Resolution

     Although every moral being is a son of God by virtue of being created
by Him, and believers become His sons and daughters as members of His
spiritual family, only Jesus Christ is the unique and eternal Son as second
person of the Trinity.

Application

*    Since Jesus Christ as God's unique Son perfectly reflects the Father,
     we as members of God's family should also seek to reflect His
     character.

*    As the sons and daughters of God, brothers, and sisters of Jesus
     Christ, we can go through life with the assurance of a glorious
     eternity.



                    CHRIST IS IN US / WE ARE IN CHRIST


     The Bible tells us that Christ is in those who believe in Him, but it
also says that believers are in Christ.  This seems to be a contradiction
in terms.  How can we be "in Christ" and at the same time have Him living
"in us"?  In trying to resolve this difficulty, a Christian cartoonist drew
a picture of a mouse peeking out of one of the holes in a piece of Swiss
cheese saying, "I am in the cheese."  The picture showed this mouse with
his sides bulging saying, "Now the cheese is in me!"

     This characterization doesn't help solve the problem, though, because
the two positions are not chronological.  One doesn't follow the other. 
Christ in us and we in Christ occurs simultaneously.  So how do we resolve
this conflict?

Christ Is In Us

1.   Christ lives in us as the Father lives in the Son (John 17:21-23).

2.   Christ lives in our dying bodies, giving us a life that cannot die
     (Rom. 8:10,11).

3.   Christ lives in us to give us the power of His resurrection life so
     that we may be able to overcome sin (Gal. 2:22).  

4.   Christ lives in us and is completely at home there when we are living
     a Spirit-filled life (Eph. 3:17).

5.   Christ lives in all His people and provides the source of their hope
     (Col. 1:27).

We Are In Christ

1.   Christ lives in us as the Father lives in the Son (John 17:21-23).

2.   Christ lives in our dying bodies, giving us a life that cannot die
     (Rom 8:10,11).

3.   Christ lives in us to give us the power of His resurrection life so
     that we may be able to overcome sin (Gal. 2:20).

4.   Christ lives in us and is completely at home there when we are living
     a Spirit-filled life (Eph. 3:17).

5.   Christ lives in all His people and provides the source of thei hope
     (Col. 1:27).

We Are In Christ

1.   Being in Christ guarantees our future bodily resurrection (1 Cor.
     15:19-23; 1 Thess. 4:16).

2.   Being in Christ removes our guilt as members of the fallen race and
     makes us members of the family of God (2 Cor. 1:21; 5:17).

3.   Being in Christ frees us from a law-system that cannot fully reveal
     God or provide salvation (2 Cor. 3:14-18).

4.   Being in Christ is pictured in baptism, a ceremony that speaks of our
     identification with Christ in His death, burial, and resurrection
     (Rom. 6:1-11; Gal. 3:27).

5.   Being in Christ entitles us to the present enjoyment of heavenly
     possessions and experiences (Eph. 1:3).


Explanation

     When Jesus said, "I in them, and You in Me" (John 17:23, He was
expressing the truth that He comes into those who trust Him and establishes
a relationship similar to that which has always existed between the Father
and the Son.  Paul referred to this same truth in both Galatians 2:20 and
Colossians 1:27.  When we believe in Jesus Christ, He comes into our lives
to transform us and assure us of our ultimate glorification with Him in
heaven.  Thsi truth is life-changing and comforting.

     Paul said that those who are in Christ will receive glorified
resurrection bodies (1 Cor. 15:20) when they are raised just before living
believers are translated at Christ's return (1 Thess. 4:16).  He was
speaking of our legal position before God -- justified and therefore
members of God's family.  Similarly, in 2 Corinthians 5:17, the person who
is in Christ is a member of a new humanity -- redeemed and under
condemnation.

     Christ in us is related to His living in us to change us.  This
practical holiness.  Our being in Christ is related to our new standing. 
This is positional holiness.

Resolution

     When we receive Christ, He comes into our lives to completely
transform us on the inside.  We are in Christ because God the Judge has
taken away our standing as guilty and has declared us guiltless and
accepted.

Application

*    The truth that we are in Christ is tremendously comforting, assuring
     us that because we stand before God in Christ He does not see us in
     our sin and guilt.  Rather, He sees us as clothed in Christ's perfect
     righteousness.

*    The truth that Christ is in us is motivation for holy living.  It
     gives us the desire and the enablement to defeat the world, the flesh,
     and the devil.



                        CHRIST IS:  SERVANT / LORD


     In the past few years, a number of Christian books have been published
that emphasize the servanthood of Jesus Christ.  They call attention to the
fact that Jesus came to establish a new order and to model a new way of
living -- serving one another.  The authors usually focus on John 13:1-11,
which describes that moment in the upper room when Jesus rose from supper,
took a towel, and washed the disciples' feet.  These books depict the Lord
Jesus as a servant and example for all believers.

     Other teachers however, seem more concerned that we remember the
authority and lordship of Christ.  They remind us that Jesus is not our
servant, but our God, our Lord, and our King.  They concentrate on His
power as Creator and on His role as Judge.  They emphasize not only His
sovereignty but also the lines of authority He has built into governmental
leaders, employers, pastors, husbands, and parents.

     So who is right?  Where should our emphasis be -- on Christ's
servanthood or on His supreme authority as Lord?


Christ is Servant

1.   Old Testament prophecies describe Christ as a coming servant (Is.
     42:1; 52:13; 53:11; Zech. 3:8).

2.   Jesus referred to Himself as the One who came to serve (Luke 22:27),
     not to be served (Matt. 20:28).

3.   Paul indicated that Jesus adopted the role of a servant (Phil. 2:7).

4.   Jesus spoke of Himself as having the attitude of a servant, being
     "gentle and lowly in heart" (Matt. 11:28,29).


Christ is Lord

1.   Jesus is referred to as King of kings and Lord of lords (Rev. 19:16).

2.   When Thomas saw Jesus' wounds, he cried, "My Lord and My God!" (John
     20:28).

3.   In his Pentecost sermon, Peter told the Jews that Jesus was "both Lord
     and Christ" (Acts 2:36).

4.   Jesus was referred to as Lord in prayer (Acts 7:59,60; 1 Thess. 3:11;
     2 Thess. 2:16; 3:16).

Explanation

     Servanthood is one of the amazing qualities of Jesus Christ.  He is
the suffering Servant of Isaiah 52:13-53:12 who bears our sins and provides
salvation to all who know Him.  In Philippians 2:5-11 Paul traces the
journey of the Lord Jesus from His place of equality with God to that of a
servant who dies a humble death on the cross to His eternal glorification
and exaltation as the God-man, world Redeemer, and King.  In Luke 22:27 and
Matthew 20:28, we find Jesus explaining His lowly role, declaring that He
came to serve, not to be served.

     Christ's servanthood, however, never caused Him to be less than God. 
Thomas rightly confessed Him as "my Lord and my god" (John 20:28).  Peter,
after depicting the fact that men were able to reject Jesus and nail Him to
a cross, declared Him to be exalted as "Lord and Christ" (Acts 2:36).  And
in Revelation 19:16, Jesus appears as King of kings and Lord of lords.

     We tend to have trouble mixing leadership and lordship with
servanthood.  But that is because we have a different view of authority
than God has.  We see it selfishly.  He who is love sees servanthood as a
way of providing salvation for sinners.  In fact, God revealed His servant
nature when He chose to create us as free moral agents, though He knew we
would rebel against Him and make necessary His becoming a member of our
humanity to save us from our sins.

     When we accept Christ's act of humble servanthood on our behalf, we
also place ourselves under His lordship.  And what could be better than
having a Lord who uses His authority to help us!

Resolution

     Jesus Christ, who as second person of the eternal Trinity enver ceased
to be Lord, voluntarily left heaven to become a member of the human family
and fill the role of servant, even to the point of being crucified, to make
possible our salvation from the penalty and power of sin.

Application

*    After the Lord Jesus had stooped to wash the feet of His disciples, He
     said, "I have given you an example, that you should do as I have done
     to you" (John 13:15).

*    When our Savior spoke of what He would endure as the object of the
     hatred of wicked men, He gave this warning:  "Remember... 'A servant
     is not greater than his master.'  If they persecuted Me, they will
     also persecute you" (John 15:20).

*    Jesus encouraged us to follow His example of servanthood by saying,
     "For whoever exalts himself will be abased, and he who humbles himself
     will be exalted" (Luke 14:11).

---
Scripture quotations are from the New King James Version, (c) 1979,
1980, 1982, Thomas Nelson, Inc., Publishers.

"Studies in Contrast:  The Doctrine of Christ" by Richard De Haan.
Copyright 1989 Radio Bible Class, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Used by Permission.
---
This file has been forwarded to you by:
   Southern Maryland Christian Information Service BBS
   (301)862-3160 HST
   Sysop:  "Buggs" Bugnon
   P.O. Box 463
   California, MD 20619

