D&D.TXT
19JUN89
                        ! ! !   W A R N I N G   ! ! ! 

                *******************************************
* * * * * * * * *  SOME PORTIONS OF THIS FILE MAY OFFEND  * * * * * * * * * 
                *******************************************      

       A PRO FAMILY FORUM TRACT published by Christian Life Ministries

                              D U N G E O N S
                              =============== 
                                   A N D 
                                   =====
                               D R A G O N S
                               =============

                         O N L Y    A   G A M E   ?
                         ----------------------

                              WHAT IS D & D ?

Dungeons  and Dragons (commonly known as D & D) is an elaborate fantasy game 
which evolved from the war games popular in the late 1950's.   Instead of  a 
historical  battlefield and battle,  D & D games are fought in the minds  of 
the players as the DM (dungeon master, or god) sets the stage in the fantasy 
world.   Each player assumes the identity of the character he creates.   His 
creature is based on chance roll of the dice.   Each character will have six 
basic abilities:  strength,  intelligence,  wisdom, constitution, dexterity, 
and  charisma.   The  manual guideline will determine whether the  character 
will be "good" or "evil".

The  object  of the game is to maneuver these characters through a  maze  of 
dungeons (tunnels) filled with monsters,  magic, ambushes, and adventures in 
search of treasures.   To survive,  each character is equipped with  special 
aids - such as magical weapons,  potions, spells, and magical trinkets (holy 
water,  garlic,  wolves-bane,  etc.).  They are also given more conventional 
weapons: daggers, hand axes, swords and battle axes.

The game is for "three or more players, age 10 and upward." 

Each  player  can stay in the game as long as his character is not killed  - 
from hours to years.  If it continues long, most players identify themselves 
with their character, and the line between fantasy and reality tends to grow 
fuzzy.   One authority concerning this "game" said: "The stuff that makes me 
nervous is over-identification with characters.  I've seen people have fits, 
yell  for fifteen minutes,  hurl dice at a grand piano when their  character 
dies."

WHAT IS D & D ?   Dr.  Gary North, author of 'None Dare Call It Witchcraft', 
says,  "...  after years of study of the history of occultism,  after having 
researched a book on the subject,  and after having consulted with  scholars 
in the field of historical research,  I can say with confidence: these games 
are  THE  MOST  EFFECTIVE,  MOST  MAGNIFICENTLY  PACKAGED,  MOST  PROFITABLY 
MARKETED,  MOST  THOROUGHLY  RESEARCHED INTRODUCTION TO THE OCCULT IN  MAN'S 
RECORDED HISTORY." (see end-note 1.)
 
WHAT  IS D & D ?   After extensive research,  the Christian Life  Ministries 
concludes:  "DUNGEONS  &  DRAGONS  instead  of  a  game  is  a  teaching  on 
demonology,   witchcraft,   voodoo,   murder,   rape,   blasphemy,  suicide, 
assassination,  insanity, sex perversion, homosexuality, prostitution, Satan 
Worship,  gambling,  Jungian  psychology,  barbarism,  cannibalism,  sadism, 
desecration,   demon  summoning,  necromantics,  divination  and  many  more 
teachings,  brought  to you in living color direct from the pit of  hell!!!" 
(see end-note 2.)

This  is strong language!   But its truthfulness is established by a careful 
examinaton of the books.   Look in almost any toy store or book store.   You 
will  probably  find twenty or more books on how to play D &  D.   They  are 
complicated, intricate, bizarre, expensive (many selling for $10.95 each ... 
1981 price) - and popular!

                             HOW WIDELY USED ?

According  to  statistics released by the news  media,  over  three  million 
Americans  are  playing D & D.   The industry grossed more than 250  million 
dollars in 1981, and expects a large increase in 1982.

Many  schools are using D & D,  especially in Gifted and Talented  programs.  
Special  "classroom  versions" are  being  produced.   Some  state-supported 
colleges  offer classes,  while others have cancelled them at the insistence 
of concerned parents and taxpayers.

Parents,  teachers,  ministers, youth directors, and all young people should 
spend time in serious research on FRP (Fantasy Role Playing) games - because 
their  use  is escalating;  the issue must be faced by all of us  sooner  or 
later.

                              OTHER FRP GAMES

New games are being created,  more sophisticated and cruel than the original 
D & D,  such as Rune-Quest,  Chivalry and Sorcery,  Arduin Grimoire, Tunnels 
and Trolls, etc.

In the rule book to the Arduin Grimoire game (Vol.  1,  p. 60) is listed the 
"critical hit table."  Options listed are:  "Dice roll: 37-38; hit location: 
crotch/chest;  results:  genitals/breast torn off,  shock ... Dice roll: 95; 
hit location: guts ripped out; result 20% chance of tangling feet, die in 1-
10 minutes ...   Dice roll:  100 hit location: head; result: head pulped and 
splattered over a wide area."

On page 10:  "The 'dread vampusa' a macho beast/man with writhing snakes for 
hair and a skull face,  bristles with Neanderthal sexual imagery,  his  left 
hand  holding a long,  sharp lance sticking straight out from his  genitals, 
dripping blood, his penis hanging limp just above it."

Arduin's creator, Dave Hargrave, defends the grisly specificity.  He states: 
"It's  deliberately  gruesome.   You have to blow a hole through that  video 
shell the kids are encased in.   They are little zombies.   They don't  know 
what  pain  is.   They  have never seen a friend taken out in  a  body  bag.  
They've got to understand that what they do has consequences.   The world is 
sex.   It  is violence.   It's going to destroy most of these kids when they 
leave TV-land." (see end-note 3.)

So Hargrave admits that the game is designed for kids!   Supposedly to equip 
them for the "reality" of life!

                          WITCHCRAFT IS A RELIGION

In  the greater Sacramento (California) area there are some 1000  practicing 
witches,  divided into a number of covens.  Several covens are recognized by 
the  state of California as bonafide religions,  given tax-exempt status  as 
churches.

George Marsh, member of the Cardova Park School Board (California) stated in 
a  letter to the editor (July,  1981) why he voted to remove D & D from  the 
school  district's  summer program:  "The Supreme Court has  already  barred 
religious activity from public facilities.   Dungeons and Dragons is clearly 
religious in content." (see end-note 4.)

Although D & D is not a religion per se, it is teaching religious principles 
and  familiarizing  its  three million devotees with terms  and  rituals  of 
occult forms of religion.  What does God say about this!

     When  thou  art come into the land which the Lord thy  God  giveth 
     thee,  thou  shalt not learn to do after the abominations of those 
     nations.   There shall not be found among you any one that  maketh 
     his  son  or  daughter to pass through the  fire,  or  that  useth 
     divination,  or an observer of times,  or an enchanter, or a witch 
     or a charmer,  or a consulter with familiar spirits,  or a wizard, 
     or a necromancer.  For all that do these things are an abomination 
     unto the Lord:  and because of these abominations the Lord thy God 
     doth drive them out from before thee.    
                                               (Deuteronomy 18:9-12)

                QUOTES FROM THEIR OWN BOOKS (emphasis added)

CONCERNING MAGIC AND SPELLS:
"Swords  and sorcery best describes what this game is all about for those are 
the two key fantasy ingredients.   Advanced Dungeons and Dragons is a fantasy 
game of role-playing which relies upon the imagination of  participants,  for 
it is certainly make-believe,  yet it is so interesting,  so challenging,  so 
mind-unleashing that it comes near reality" (D & D Handbook,  p.  7).  As you 
know, sorcery refers to the use of magic and witchcraft.

"Most  spells have a verbal component and SO MUST BE UTTERED" (D & D  Players 
Handbook, p. 40).

"Magic  users draw upon arcane powers in order to exercise  their  profession 
...  He  or she must MEMORIZE and PREPARE FOR THE USE OF EACH SPELL,  and its 
casting  makes  it necessary to REABSORB THE INCANTATION  by  consulting  the 
proper book of spells ..." (D & D Players Handbook, p. 25).

"The  spell  caster  should be required to show you what form  of  protective 
inscription  he  or she has used when the spell is cast."   The  three  forms 
mentioned  are:  "Pictures  of a magic circle,  pentagram,  and  thaumaturgic 
triangle" (Dungeon Masters Guide,  p.  42,  referring to instructions for the 
Aerial Servant spell,  6th level).   According to those knowledgeable in  the 
occult, these symbols are commonly used in witchcraft and Satan worship.

CONCERNING "CLERICS":
"A  study of the spells usable by clerics will convey the main purpose of the 
cleric.  That is, the cleric serves to fortify, protect, and revitalize.  The 
cleric  also has a limited number of attack spells ...  Note that all  spells 
must  be SPOKEN or READ ALOUD ...  Clerics can employ a fair number of  magic 
items including most potions;  clerical and 'protection' scrolls; most rings; 
some wands, rods, and staves." (D & D Players Handbook, p. 20).

"Another  important attribute of the cleric is the ability to turn  away  (or 
actually  command  into  service)  the undead and less  powerful  demons  and 
devils" (Players Handbook, p. 20).

CONCERNING "DEITIES" OR "GODS":
"This  game  lets  all  your fantasies come true.   This  is  a  world  where 
monsters,  dragons,  good and evil; high priests, fierce demons; and even the 
gods themselves may enter your character's life" (D & D Handbook, p. 7).

In other sections the gods are referred to as "deity".

     (1)  "It is  well known to all experienced players ...  spells  bestowed 
          upon them by their respective deities" (Dungeon Master Handbook, p. 
          38).

     (2)  "Each cleric must have his or her own deity ..." (Ibid).

     (3)  "The  deity  (you the DM 'Dungeon Master') will point out  all  the 
          transgressions ..." (Dungeon Master Handbook, p. 39).

"Serving  a deity is a significant part of D & D,  and all player  characters 
should have a patron god.  ALIGNMENT ASSUMES ITS FULL IMPORTANCE WHEN TIED TO 
THE WORSHIP OF A DEITY" (Deities & Demigods, Instruction Manual, p. 5).

"Changing  Alignment:  Whether  or not the character actively professes  some 
deity, HE OR SHE WILL HAVE AN ALIGNMENT AND SERVE ONE OR MORE DEITIES OF THIS 
GENERAL  ALIGNMENT  INDIRECTLY  OR UNBEKNOWNST  TO  THE  CHARACTER"  (Dungeon 
Masters Guide,  p.  25).  (In other words,  in this game you serve a deity or 
deities whether you want to or not.  Read the quote again.) 

CONCERNING PRAYER AND FASTING:
"Clerical  spells ...  are bestowed by the gods,  so that the cleric need but  
pray for a few hours ..." (D & D Players Handbook, p. 40).

"Cleric  desires  third  through fifth level  spells,  THE  MINIONS  (angels, 
demigods,  or whatever) WILL BE LIKELY TO REQUIRE THE CLERIC to spend 2 to  8 
days  in  prayer,  fasting,  and contemplation of his or her  transgressions, 
MAKING WHATEVER SACRIFICES AND ATONEMENT ARE NECESSARY ... Spell recovery ... 
requires about the same period of time.   In order to pray and meditate  ..." 
(Dungeon Master, p. 38,39).

CONCERNING DEATH: 
"The  character  faces  death in many forms.   The most common death  due  to 
combat,  is no greater matter in most cases,  for the character can often  be 
brought  back  by  means  of a clerical spell or an alter  reality  or  wish" 
(Dungeon Master, p. 15).

"Resurrection" is referred to as "the revival of a character after its death, 
BY MAGICAL MEANS" (Dungeon Master, p. 229).

So death - with its stand and ultimate consequences - is trivialized;  it can 
be overcome without much difficulty, "by magical means."

CONCERNING SATANISM:
In  four  pages (16-19) of the 'Monster Manual' the word  demon  appears  106 
times!  And the player has been told to trust four of these demons as (lesser 
gods).  (Ref. Deities and Demigods, page 105, paragraph 5).

In  four  pages  (20-23) the word devil appears 94 times and  the  word  hell 
appears 25 times.

CONCERNING HUMAN SACRIFICE:
"Kali  (black earth mother):  Her worship requires sacrifices of  blood,  and 
even an occasional human sacrifice.  Her cult includes many assassins.  Those 
sworn  to  defend her cult will often do so in a sort  of  berserk,  suicidal 
manner, slaying all who oppose them until they themselves are slain" (Deities 
and Demigods, p. 71).

"Tlaloc (Rain God):  At each full moon, a priest of Tlaloc sacrifices a child 
or baby to Tlaloc.  Once a year, there is a great festival held in his honor.  
Numerous  babies are brought or taken from the populace.   These babies  are 
sacrificed  to Tlaloc,  after which the priests cook and eat them.   If  the 
babies cry during the sacrifices this is taken as a good sign that rain will 
be abundant during the coming year" (Deities and Demigods, p. 35,36).

"Tyaa  (winged goddess of evil birds):  Only women are permitted in the  high 
priesthood  and  Tyaa  demands  the sacrifice of body  parts  from  her  more 
attractive worshippers" (Deities and Demigods, p. 88).

"Orcs  - Gruumsh - Greater god:  To become a shaman of Gruumsh,  an orc  must 
pluck out his own left eye.   The proper worship of Gruumsh requires blood in 
large quantities" (Players Handbook, p. 112).

CONCERNING MURDER:
"If  the  Assassination  is  being attempted by or  on  behalf  of  a  player 
character,  A  COMPLETE PLAN OF HOW THE DEED IS TO BE DONE SHOULD BE PREPARED 
BY THE PLAYER INVOLVED,  and the precautions, if any, of the TARGET character 
should  be compared against the plan.   Weapon damage always occurs  and  may 
KILL  the VICTIM even though 'assassination' failed." (Dungeon Masters Guide, 
pl 75).   Would you call this ONLY A GAME?  Or would you call it training  in 
murder?

"Important,  popular,  and or noble victims will be considered as being above 
their actual level with respect to FEE.   For example, an elder of a town who 
is generous and just (thus popular) might be only 4th level, but for purposes 
of  PAYMENT or ASSASSINATION the character would be considered at three times 
actual level" (Players Handbook, p. 29).  

CONCERNING CANNIBALISM: 
"Non-human soldiers:  The less intelligent non-human will serve for from  10% 
to  60%  less cost,  but these evil creatures will certainly expect to  loot, 
pillage,  AND  RAPE  FREELY  AT EVERY CHANCE,  AND KILL  (AND  PROBABLY  EAT) 
CAPTIVES" (Players Handbook, p. 31).

"The sahuagin are cruel and brutal, the strongest always bullying the weaker.  
Any injured,  disabled,  or infirm specimen will be slain, and eaten by these 
cannibalistic  monsters.   Even IMPERFECT HATCHLINGS are dealt with  in  this 
fashion.  THIS STRICT LAW HAS DEVELOPED A STRONG RACE, HOWEVER," (Deities and 
Demigods, p. 84).

CONCERNING DEFILEMENT:
"Defilement  of  Fonts:  If any non-believer blesses/curses  an  unholy/holy 
font,  or  uses  LESS REFINED MEANS SUCH AS EXCRETING WASTES into a font  or 
basin,  the whole is absolutely desecrated, defiled, and unfit ... NOTE THAT 
EITHER  METHOD REQUIRES ACTUAL CONTACT WITH THE FONT AND  ITS  VESSEL.   Any 
blessing  or  cursing  from a distance will be  absolutely  ineffectual  and 
wasted."  (Players Handbook,  p.  115).   Note the equal use of bless/curse, 
unholy/holy.

Other quotes that indicate a need for serious concern about the game: 

"Release  of word/sound-stored energy is not particularly debilitating to the 
spell  caster,  as he or she HAS GATHERED THIS ENERGY over a course  of  time 
prior  to THE LOOSING OF THE POWER.   IT COMES FROM OUTSIDE THE SPELL CASTER, 
not  from his or her own vital essence.   The power to activate even a  first 
level spell would leave a spell caster weak and shaking if it were drawn from 
his  or  her personal energy,  and a third level spell would  most  certainly 
totally drain the caster's body of life" (Dungeon Masters Guide,  p. 40, 1979 
edition).

OTHER RELIGIOUS TERMINOLOGY:
If D & D is ONLY A GAME,  why do the writers use Christian terms: atonement, 
clergy, deity, divine ascension, divine being, faith, gods, healing, heaven, 
prayer,  fasting, resurrection, soul, spirit, worship, spreading the gospel, 
etc.? And in a blasphemous way!

Every character must have a character class assigned to him or her.  In the D 
& D Players Handbook, p. 20-33, the five character classes are explained: the 
Cleric,  Fighter,  Magic-User,  Thief,  and Monk.   There are also  five sub-
classes:  the  Druid,  the Paladin,  the Ranger,  the  Illusionist,  and  the 
Assassin.  All five of the character classes involve either magic and spells, 
or violence, or both.  It seems that it would be impossible to play this game 
as it is designed withour involvement in either magic or violence.

              WHAT IS WRONG WITH ROLE-PLAYING OR FANTASIZING ?

Some  mistakenly believe that role-playing is merely acting out a  character.  
Much  more is involved.  Psycho-drama techniques (the root  of  role-playing) 
were  introduced  in the early 1900's by Dr Jacob L Moreno,  contemporary  of 
Freud.  He said his objective was to develop a "positive religion."  His idea 
was  that  if you can "play a role" - for instance,  the role  of  God  - and 
develop  that role and stop its playing at will,  you will begin to learn how 
not to be possessed of that role.   He said:  "The only way to get rid of the 
God syndrome is to act it out."

What  is the "positive religion" that Moreno envisioned?   The religion  that 
man  is  all-powerful,  capable of answering all questions  and  solving  all 
problems  apart  from  any  Supernatural  Being  - more  popularly  known  as 
Humanism.   Read his statement again.  Then consider its application to D & D 
and other FRP "games."

A principle laid down long ago by God is:  " For as he thinketh in his heart, 
so  is he" (Proverbs 23:7).   "Keep thy heart with all diligence;  for out of  
it  are the issues of life" (Proverbs 4:23).   We ARE what we THINK.   It  is 
ridiculous to believe that people,  young or old, can absorb their minds with 
violence,  murder,  human sacrifice,  suicide, demonology, rape, desecration, 
defecation,  sadism,  cannibalism,  sex perversion,  insanity,  prostitution, 
necromantics,  Satan worship,  witchcraft,  and every other form of perverted 
and  violent  conduct  without being intensely - and  perhaps  permanently  - 
affected adversely.  We ARE what we THINK!

Young person,  if you want to be successful,  productive,  well-adjusted, and 
happy,  then  refuse to fill your wonderful mind with  such  garbage!   Don't 
allow someone else to take control of your mind.   Think too much of yourself 
to  become  a tool in the hands of those whose interest is to get your  money 
and destroy your faith in God.

               TESTIMONY OF NEGATIVE EFFECTS (see end-note 5.)

John Torell,  with Christian Life Ministries in California,  received a phone 
call from a medical doctor in Seattle, Washington.  The doctor was treating a 
policeman for severe depression caused by the suicide of his sixteen-year-old 
son.  The  son,  who had been heavily involved in D & D for two  years,  shot 
himself with his father's service revolver.

Some  have argued that D & D is a healthy release of suppressed  hostilities.  
But  seeing  the power that can be seized  in  games,  psychiatrist  Laurance 
Johnson  cautions,  "If  I had a child who tended toward  schizophrenia,  I'd 
never let him near D & D.  There's a danger that it would reinforce  feelings 
of  gradiosity,  of  omnipotence.  Reality  and fantasy are hard  enough  for 
schizophrenics to differentiate."

This reality distortion is frightening.   A city police department in central 
Washington  asks,  "Are  you are a participant in Fantasy Role Games?"  as  a 
standard question ...  two people convicted of firing over three rounds  into 
passing  motor  vehicles  admitted that they "constantly  fantasized  killing 
someone."  Other police departments have confirmed "some correlation" between 
Fantasy Role Playing Games and incidents showing up on their police blotter.

Many  people  have been innocently drawn into  FRP  Games.   However,  enough 
information is now available to reveal their true nature and real danger - so 
there's no need for wise and alert people to be further duped.

Even  some  Christians try to defend D & D and other FRP  "games".   In  this 
futile  attempt,  one  said:  "But the game is helpful because it  shows  the 
difference  between  good and evil characters."  To this  a  brilliant  young 
player replied:  "Not so.  Nearly everybody would rather play evil characters 
because they are much more powerful."

In  light  of  the  quotes from their own literature,  it would  be  wise  to 
consider: 

Does this "game" promote respect for the sanctity of life?  Or does it rather 
serve  as  basic  training  in brutality and  disregard  for  life  (such  as 
exemplified in the incredible massacres of recent years)? 

Does it increase, or decrease, a player's faith in God and His Word?

Does it trivialize, and even blaspheme, Christianity?

In  summary:  Does  its over-all influence tend to build up,  or  tear  down, 
character?

                                    Notes

1.   Remnant Review, December 5, 1980, PO Box 2509, Tyler, Texas 75710
2.   Dungeons  and  Dragons,   Christian  Life  Ministries,   PO  Box  41001, 
     Sacremento, Ca., 95841.
3.   Dungeons and Dragons, Good or Bad? Christian Life Ministries.
4.   Answers to Common Questions about Dungeons and Dragons,  Christian  Life 
     Ministries.
5.   Ibid.

REVISED PRINTING.   Note:  If page references differ from your book, remember 
there  are  different editions of D & D books - for instance,  at  least  two 
versions  of  Deities  & Demigods,  the original with 144 pages and  a  newer 
version with 128 pages.

   This is a Pro Family Forum Tract published by Christian Life Ministries

                               Available from:  

                     Australian Federation for Decency,  
                                 PO Box 106,  
                            Canterbury, VIC 3126

                                  --------

