                              PEOPLE OF THE BIBLE



                                    DATHAN




NUM 16:1  Now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, and
Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben,
took men:  

NUM 16:2  And they rose up before Moses, with certain of the children of Israel,
two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly, famous in the congregation, men
of renown:  

NUM 16:3  And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron,
and said unto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are
holy, every one of them, and the LORD is among them: wherefore then lift ye up
yourselves above the congregation of the LORD?  

NUM 16:4  And when Moses heard it, he fell upon his face:  

NUM 16:5  And he spake unto Korah and unto all his company, saying, Even to
morrow the LORD will shew who are his, and who is holy; and will cause him to
come near unto him: even him whom he hath chosen will he cause to come near unto
him.  

NUM 16:6  This do; Take you censers, Korah, and all his company;  

NUM 16:7  And put fire therein, and put incense in them before the LORD to
morrow: and it shall be that the man whom the LORD doth choose, he shall be
holy: ye take too much upon you, ye sons of Levi.  

NUM 16:8  And Moses said unto Korah, Hear, I pray you, ye sons of Levi:  

NUM 16:9  Seemeth it but a small thing unto you, that the God of Israel hath
separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to himself to
do the service of the tabernacle of the LORD, and to stand before the
congregation to minister unto them?  

NUM 16:10  And he hath brought thee near to him, and all thy brethren the sons
of Levi with thee: and seek ye the priesthood also?  

NUM 16:11  For which cause both thou and all thy company are gathered together
against the LORD: and what is Aaron, that ye murmur against him?  

NUM 16:12  And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab: which
said, We will not come up:  

NUM 16:13  Is it a small thing that thou hast brought us up out of a land that
floweth with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, except thou make
thyself altogether a prince over us?  

NUM 16:14  Moreover thou hast not brought us into a land that floweth with milk
and honey, or given us inheritance of fields and vineyards: wilt thou put out
the eyes of these men? we will not come up.  

NUM 16:15  And Moses was very wroth, and said unto the LORD, Respect not thou
their offering: I have not taken one ass from them, neither have I hurt one of
them.  

NUM 16:16  And Moses said unto Korah, Be thou and all thy company before the
LORD, thou, and they, and Aaron, to morrow:  

NUM 16:17  And take every man his censer, and put incense in them, and bring ye
before the LORD every man his censer, two hundred and fifty censers; thou also,
and Aaron, each of you his censer.  

NUM 16:18  And they took every man his censer, and put fire in them, and laid
incense thereon, and stood in the door of the tabernacle of the congregation
with Moses and Aaron.  

NUM 16:19  And Korah gathered all the congregation against them unto the door of
the tabernacle of the congregation: and the glory of the LORD appeared unto all
the congregation.  

NUM 16:20  And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,  

NUM 16:21  Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consume
them in a moment.  

NUM 16:22  And they fell upon their faces, and said, O God, the God of the
spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin, and wilt thou be wroth with all the
congregation?  

NUM 16:23  And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,  

NUM 16:24  Speak unto the congregation, saying, Get you up from about the
tabernacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.  

NUM 16:25  And Moses rose up and went unto Dathan and Abiram; and the elders of
Israel followed him.  

NUM 16:26  And he spake unto the congregation, saying, Depart, I pray you, from
the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest ye be consumed
in all their sins.  

NUM 16:27  So they gat up from the tabernacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, on
every side: and Dathan and Abiram came out, and stood in the door of their
tents, and their wives, and their sons, and their little children.  

NUM 16:28  And Moses said, Hereby ye shall know that the LORD hath sent me to do
all these works; for I have not done them of mine own mind.  

NUM 16:29  If these men die the common death of all men, or if they be visited
after the visitation of all men; then the LORD hath not sent me.  

NUM 16:30  But if the LORD make a new thing, and the earth open her mouth, and
swallow them up, with all that appertain unto them, and they go down quick into
the pit; then ye shall understand that these men have provoked the LORD.  

NUM 16:31  And it came to pass, as he had made an end of speaking all these
words, that the ground clave asunder that was under them:  

NUM 16:32  And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, and their
houses, and all the men that appertained unto Korah, and all their goods.  

NUM 16:33  They, and all that appertained to them, went down alive into the pit,
and the earth closed upon them: and they perished from among the congregation.  

NUM 16:34  And all Israel that were round about them fled at the cry of them:
for they said, Lest the earth swallow us up also.  

NUM 16:35  And there came out a fire from the LORD, and consumed the two hundred
and fifty men that offered incense.  

NUM 26:9  And the sons of Eliab; Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. This is that
Dathan and Abiram, which were famous in the congregation, who strove against
Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, when they strove against the
LORD:  

DEU 11:6  And what he did unto Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of
Reuben: how the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, and their
households, and their tents, and all the substance that was in their possession,
in the midst of all Israel:  

PSA 106:17  The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan and covered the company of
Abiram.  




                        ==============================


                                      THE

                       <E>LECTRONIC <L>IBRARY E<X>CHANGE


                                P.O. BOX 19454

                            DENVER, COLORADO  80219


                              BBS:  303-935-6323

                             FIDONET:  1:104/810.0

                           THENETWORK:  8:7703/11.0


                                  End Of File
