Christian Research Institute (CRI) not dependable

The Christian Research Institute, founded by the late  Walter Martin, is a
ministry dedicated to exposing false teaching.  It has a tremendous
influence across North America through its "Bible  Answer Man" radio
programs and its broad range of literature. 

Recently, CRI director Hank Hanegraaf published a book  which exposes some
of the errors of certain charismatic leaders, particularly  Kenneth Hagin,
Kenneth Copeland, and Benny Hinn. Hanegraaf focuses  on such things as the
"little gods" idea  which says that  Christians are gods and have the same
power that Christ had, the "spiritual  death of Christ" teaching which
holds that Christ died spiritually  and descended into Hell to be tormented
by the devil before he could  atone for sin, and the "positive confession"
idea which says  God's power and provision are released through the
Christian's words. 

While we are happy that CRI exposes these gross errors,  we must warn that
CRI is not to be trusted when dealing with the charismatics  or with many
other important matters. In an interview with Charisma  magazine, May 1993,
Hanegraaf admitted that he himself is a charismatic  and that more than
half of the CRI staff are charismatic. He said,  "Spiritual gifts are not
an issue at CRI. We have never made a  single anti-charismatic statement on
our show." 

This is a serious problem, because the danger of the  charismatic movement
is found in its very foundational doctrines,  not just the extremism of the
movement. The charismatic understanding  of Spirit baptism, second
blessing, healing, miracles, extra-biblical  revelation, sign gifts,
apostolic succession, kingdom power, and "holding  out faithful" is the
foundation upon which movement is built.  To warn of charismatic extremes
without warning of these issues is  like warning of Purgatory in Romanism
without mentioning the Mass.

The problem with CRI is not only its failure to see charismatic  error
clearly, but its failure to see cultic error clearly. We are  happy that
CRI does take a stand against many hurtful cults, but they  refuse to stand
against two of the chief cults - Roman Catholicism  and Seventh-day
Adventism. 

In Walter Martin's book Kingdom of the Cults,  Seventh-day Adventism is
treated as evangelical rather than as apostasy.  Martin claimed that the
SDA gospel is sound, whereas, in reality,  it is a demonic mixture of law
and grace. 

As for Romanism, CRI "firmly maintains that Roman  Catholicism is a
religious system which includes both orthodox biblical  Christianity and
elements of unbiblical or `cultic' doctrine and practice.  ... We
acknowledge the presence in Roman Catholicism of many genuine  brothers and
sisters in the Lord ... in spite of the vast differences  between Catholics
and evangelicals, I believe our points of agreement  provide us with common
ground through which we can share and discuss  the gospel in love and with
understanding" (CRI Perspective sheets).

This is a serious error. The Apostles did not treat false  teachers in such
a manner. Paul did not treat the Galatian heretics  in this way. He did not
focus on the common ground he held with these  heretics and seek to "share
and discuss" their differences.  No, he said they were cursed of God
because they had perverted the  gospel, and he warned God's people to stay
away from them! There is  no common ground with those who preach a false
gospel! 

Friends, be careful about Christian Research Institute.  There is
tremendous error mixed in with the good.

