===========[ The Christian BBS - 604-478-2789 - 24 Hrs - 8,N,1 ]===========
The following file has been put up, though not necessarily done by Dave 
Geauvreau who is the Sysop of "The Christian BBS," and can be contacted for 
more information by phoning the bulletin board at (604)-478-2789, or the 
voice line at (604)-478-0254, or by writing to 3053 Metchosin Rd., 
Victoria, B.C., Canada - V9B 4Y9! All donations if by check are to be to 
"The Christian BBS," and please note that finances do not allow me to 
accept long distance charges and return mail must be pre-postaged paid.
=========================================================================== 


                        THE QUESTION OF FREEMASONRY

                                INTRODUCTION

The question of the Christian stand regarding Freemasonry seems to confront 
our ministry at every turn lately.  Because I have seen the exact parallels 
of the Masonic legends and rituals carried throughout the "mysteries" of 
Mormonism, I have had to study deeply into Masonic origins, purposes and 
doctrine.

In doing so, I have had to come to grips with the sad fact that the 
esoteric doctrines of Freemasonry separate it, just as unequivocally as do 
those of Mormonism, from the Christian theology.  this holds true for every 
branch of Masonry, from the Shriners to the Blue Lodge, the Eastern Star, 
the Demolay, Job's Daughters and the Rainbow Girls!  It holds true for the 
Scottish rite or York rite!

I know that this will cause offense to many Masons, and for that I am truly 
sorry.  But I would rather that the Mason be offended at me and be restored 
to true fellowship with Jesus Christ than to remain silent any longer.

This word of warning is not to the Masonic fraternity at large, but to 
those Masons who claim to be both Masons and Christians!

A recent newspaper insert, called "FREEMASONRY - A WAY OF LIFE" appeared in 
many metropolitan areas.  It pictured Freemasonry as a family-centered, 
fraternal, benevolent organization, "as American as apple pie!" 
(page 7)

Not only does the article demonstrate the strength of Freemasonry among our 
political leaders (both past and present), but makes much of its use of the 
Holy Bible and its foundational belief in God.  Masonry has a very strong 
representation in the Christian denominations throughout the world.  In 
many of the churches we visit, I find Masons involved as deacons, elders, 
board members and even pastors.

Their claim and the claim of every Mason tot he outside world is that 
Masonry and Christianity are totally compatible.  They tell me that 
religion is the experience of relating to God, and Masonry the experience 
of relating to mankind.  While separate, they can and do naturally coexist.

The article mentioned above explains its "religious" position this way, 
"Masonry is NOT a religion in any sense of the word, yet it is religious.  
Church membership is not a requirement, yet membership in ANY church is no 
bar to admission.  There is nothing in the requirements of Masonry to 
prevent a Catholic, a Mohammedan, a Jew, a Buddist, a Protestant, a Mormon, 
or any member of any religion from becoming a member." 
(page 3)

On the surface, this might seem quite reasonable.  I find no offense in 
being involved in social, civic and benevolent activities with people of 
other religious backgrounds.  In fact, it's really an integral part of the 
excitement of life!  But, when it comes to my own personal worship of God, 
and His revelation to me of His Word, there are some very clear guidelines!

If Freemasonry is truly what it professes publicly, then "Bravo!"; it is a 
welcome fellowship.  If it is being deceptive, then it should be exposed.  
It is simple.

Let's see what Masonry TRULY teaches within its closed doors, and through 
its own published documents.  NO "anti-Masonic" publications will be cited 
in explaining their TRUE theological position.

The key document from which I quote is the most readily available and 
universally approved doctrinal book of Freemasonry, "Morals and Dogma of 
the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry," By Albert Pike, 
Grand Commander, 1859-1891.  Its title page states that it was prepared for 
the "Supreme Council of the Thirty-Third Degree and Published by its 
Authority."  Originally published in 1871, I have used the 1966 Edition.  
Except where other sources are noted, I cite page numbers only when using 
this work.  Emphases within quotes are my own.


                             MASONRY DESCRIBED

                             CUSTODIAN OF TRUTH

(Masonry)..."The custodian and depository (since Enoch) of the great 
philosophical and religious truths, unknown to the world at large, and 
handed down from age to age by an unbroken current of tradition, embodied 
in symbols, emblems and allegories." 
(page 210)


                          A RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION

"Masonry is, in every sense of the word, except one, and that its least 
philosophical, an eminently religious institution - that it is indebted 
solely to the religious element which it contains for its origin and for 
its continued existence and that without this religious element it would 
scarcely be worthy of cultivation by the wise and good."..."Freemasonry is 
NOT Christianity not a substitute for it"..."But the religion of Masonry is 
not sectarian.  It admits men of every creed within its hospitable bosom, 
rejecting institutions; and on this ground mainly, if not alone, should the 
religious Mason defend it." 
(Encyclopedia of Freemasonry, Albert G. Mackey, Revised Edition, 1921, 
pages 618,619) 


                         THE FOUNDATION OF RELIGION

"It [Masonry] is the universal, eternal, immutable religion, such as God 
planted it in the heart of universal humanity.  No creed has ever been 
long-lived that was not built on this foundation.  It is the base and they 
are the superstructure."
(page 219)


                             TEMPLE OF RELIGION

"Every Masonic Temple is a Temple of Religion, and its teachings are 
instructions in religion."  
(page 213)


                        BUDDHA THE FIRST LEGISLATOR

"The first Masonic legislator whose memory is preserved to us by history, 
was Buddha, who, about a thousand years before the Christian era, reformed 
the religion of Manous."
(page 277)


                          REVERENCES ALL REFORMERS

"It [Masonry] reverences all the great reformers.  It sees in Moses, the 
lawgiver to the Jews, in Confucius and Zoroaster, in Jesus of Nazareth, and 
in the Arabain Iconclast, great teachers of morality, and eminent 
reformers, if no more; and allows every brother of the order to assign to 
each such higher and even divine characteristics as his creed and truth 
require."
(page 525)


                              NOT CREED-BOUND

"The true Mason is not creed-bound.  He realizes with the divine 
illumination of his lodge that as a Mason his religion must be universal: 
Christ, Buddha or Mohammed, the name means little, for he recognizes only 
the light and not the bearer.  He worships at every shrine, bows before 
every altar, whether in temple, mosque or cathedral, realizing with his 
truer understanding the oneness of all spiritual truth." 
(The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, Manly P. Hall, 33rd, page 65, Macoy 
Publishing and Masonic Supply Co. Richmond, Va., 1976.)


                                 THE BAALIM

"Masonry, around whose altars the Christian, the Hebrew, the Moslem, the 
Brahmin, the followers of Confucius and Zoraster, can assemble as brethren 
and unite in prayer to the one God who is above ALL the Ballim, must needs 
leave it to each of its initiates to look for the foundation of his faith 
and hope to the written scriptures of his own religion."
(page 226)

The word, Baalim, is simply defined as "false god or idol."  The Masonic 
author has included the God of the Christian in that category.


                           THE SOURCE OF ALL GOOD

"Everything good in nature comes from OSIRIS - order, harmony, and the 
favorable temperature of the seasons and celestial periods."
(page 476)

Osiris was the ancient Egyptian god whose annual death and resurrection 
personified the self-renewing vitality and fertility of nature.  "The All 
Seeing Eye" is a masonic representation of Osiris.


                        MASONRY CONCEALS ITS TRUTHS

"Masonry, like all the religions, all the Mysteries, Hermeticism and 
Alchemy, CONCEALS it secrets from all except the Adepts and Sages, or the 
Elect, and uses false explanations and misinterpretations of its symbols to 
mislead those who deserve only to be misled; to conceal the Truth, which it 
calls Light, from them, and to draw them away from it.  Truth is not for 
those who are unworthy or unable to receive it, or would pervert it."
(pages 104-105)


                       THE BLUE LODGE TO BE DECEIVED!

"The Blue Degrees are but the outer court or portico of the Temple.  Part 
of the symbols are displayed there to the Initiate, but he is intentionally 
misled by false interpretations.  It is not intended that he shall 
understand them, but it is intended that he shall imagine he understands 
them."
(page 819)


                   WORSHIPFUL MASTER THE SOURCE OF LIGHT

"Worshipful Master: The Head and Chief of the Lodge, the Source of Light, 
of Knowledge and instruction in Masonry.  He personifies the Sublime Art of 
Masonry and is the Spokesman thereof."
(Arthur Waite, A New Encyclopedia of Freemasonry, 1970, page xxiv)


                          OBEDIENCE THE FIRST RULE

"The first duty of every Mason is to obey the Mandate of the Master...The 
order must at once be obeyed; its character and its consequences may be 
matters of subsequent inquiry.  The Masonic rule of obedience is like the 
nautical, imperative: 'Obey orders, even if you break owners'."
(Encyclopedia of Freemasonry, Albert Mackey, page 525)


                         THE INCOMPREHENSIBLE BIBLE

"The teachers, even of Christianity, are, in general the most ignorant of 
the true meaning of that which they teach.  There is no book of which so 
little is known as the Bible.  To most who read it, it is as 
incomprehensible as the Sohar."
(page 105)


                            THE INCOMPLETE BIBLE

"All truly dogmatic religions have issued from the Kabalah and return to 
it.  Everything scientific and grand in the religious dreams of the 
Illuminati, Jacob Boehme, Swedenborg, Saint-Martin, and others, is borrowed 
from the Kabalah; all the Masonic associations owe to it their secrets and 
their symbols.

"The Kabalah alone consecrates the Alliance of the Universal Reason and the 
Divine Word...

"The Bible, with all the allegories it contains, expresses, in an 
incomplete and veiled manner only, the religious science of the Hebrews.  
The doctrine of Moses and the Prophets, identical at bottom with that of 
the ancient Egyptians, also had its outward meaning and its veils.

"The Hebrew books were written only to recall to memory the traditions; and 
they were written in symbols unintelligible to the profane...thus was a 
second Bible born, unknown to, or rather uncomprehended by, the Christians; 
a collection, they say, of monstrous absurdities.

"One is filled with admiration, on penetrating into the Sanctuary of the 
Kabalah, at seeing a doctrine so logical, so simple and at the same time so 
absolute."
(pages 744-745)

The "Kabalah" is a book of ancient Jewish mysticism and magic.


                             DEITIES OF MASONRY

                          THE ENERGIES OF LUCIFER

"When the Mason learns that the Key to the warrior on the block is the 
proper application of the dynamo of living power, he has learned the 
Mystery of his Craft.  The seething energies of LUCIFER are in his hands 
and before he may step onward and upward, he must prove his ability to 
properly apply [this] energy."
(Lost Keys of Freemasonry, Manly P. Hall, page 48)


                            YES, LUCIFER IS GOD

"That which we must say to the crowd is - We worship a God, but it is the 
God that one adores without superstition.

"To you, Sovereign Grand Inspectors General, we say this, that you may 
repeat it to the Brethren of the 32nd, 31st, and 30th degrees - The Masonic 
Religion should be, by all of us initiates of the high degrees, maintained 
in the purity of the Luciferian Doctrine.

"If Lucifer were not God, would Adonay (The God of the Christians) whose 
deeds prove his cruelty, perfidy and hatred of man, barbarism and 
repulsion for science, would Adonay and his priests, calumniate him?

"Yes, Lucifer is God, and unfortunately Adonay is also god.  For the 
eternal law is that there is no light without shade, no beauty without 
ugliness, no white without black, for the absolute can only exist as two 
gods: darkness being necessary for light to serve as its foil as the 
pedestal is necessary to the statue, and the brake to the locomotive.

"Thus, the doctrine of Satanism is a heresy; and the true and pure 
philosophical religion is the belief in Lucifer, the equal of Adonay; but 
lucifer, God of Light and God of Good, is struggling for humanity against 
Adonay, the God of Darkness and Evil."
(Instructions to the 23 Supreme Councils of the World, Albert Pike, Grand 
Commander, Sovereign Pontiff of Universal Freemasonry, July 14, 1889.  
Recorded by A.C. De La Rive, La Femme et l'Enfant dans la Franc-Maconnerie 
Universelle, page 588)

The Word of God, the Bible, clearly puts Lucifer in his proper place, and 
gives God's reasons.  "How Art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of 
the morning!  How art thou cut down to the ground, which didst weaken the 
nations!  For thou hast said in thine heart, I will exalt my throne above 
the stars of God; I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation, in 
the sides of the north.  I will ascend above the clouds; I will be like the 
most High.  Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of the 
pit."
(Isaiah 14:12-15)


                    THE GRAND ARCHITECT OF THE UNIVERSE

Masonic ritual is concerned with the recovery of the "Lost Word," presumed 
to be the name of God - supposedly lost through the murder of the 
architect, Hiram Abiff, during the building of Solomon's Temple.  This 
quest is attained during the ritual of the ROYAL ARCH DEGREE.  It is here 
that the SECRET NAME of the DEITY OF MASONRY is revealed.  That name is 
"JAOBULON."  "JAO" is the Greek word for Jehovah.  "BUL" is a rendering of 
the name, BAAL.  "ON" is the term used in the Babylonian mysteries to call 
upon the deity "OSIRIS"!  The secret ritual book of the Craft prints the 
letters J.B.O.  It states that: "We three do meet and agree - in peace, 
love and unity - the Sacred Word to keep - and never to divulge the same - 
until we three, or three such as we - do meet and agree."  Thus, no Royal 
Arch Mason can pronounce the whole sacred name by himself!

What you see represented, then, as the god of Freemasonry, is a three-
headed monster so remote from the Christian trinity and so blasphemous as 
to damn the eternal soul of anyone who would dare to pronounce its name in 
a ritual of worship!


                        THE GOD OF THE MYSTIC SHRINE

The candidates for this ritual kneel at the ALTAR OF OBLIGATION with arms 
bound, leaning upon the top, heads bowed.  There they are required to 
"assume a most powerful and binding oath, inseparably uniting yourself with 
us, and once taken, it can never be retracted or departed from."

The oath itself is curse enough, being four pages in length.  Its penalty 
includes "having my eyeballs pierced to the center with a three-edged 
blade."

The revelation of truth is in the candidates' sealing of the oath, 
revealing the true nature of the masonic god of the "Mystic Shrine":

"...and may ALLAH, the god of Arab, Moslem and Mohammedan, the GOD OF OUR 
FATHERS, support me to the entire fulfillment of the same, Amen, Amen, 
Amen.  
(The Ancient Arabic Order, Nobles of the Mystic Shrine, pages 35-39, Allen 
Publishing Co. NY, NY.)


                               I AM THAT I AM

During the ceremonies of the ritual for the Royal Arch degree, the 
candidate is asked, "Brother Inspector, what are you?"  and he replies, "I 
AM THAT I AM."  Can you imagine that?  When Moses asked God to name 
Himself, God said, "I AM THAT I AM" and He said, "Thus shalt thou say unto 
the children of Israel, I AM hath sent me unto you."
(Exodus 3:14)

Tell me how a Christian can take to himself the Biblical name of the God of 
Israel?  The God of the Christian faith said, "Ye are even my witnesses!  
Is there a God besides me?  Yea, I know not any!  They that make a graven 
image are ALL of them vanity; and their delectable things shall not profit; 
and they are their own witnesses; they see not, nor know; that they may be 
ashamed."
(Isaiah 44:8,9)


                   THE MASTER MASON - A GOD IN THE MAKING

"Man is a god in the making, and as in the mystic myths of Egypt, on the 
potter's wheel he is being molded.  When his light shines out to lift and 
preserve all things, he receives the triple crown of godhood and joins that 
throng of Master Masons who, in their robes of Blue and Gold, are seeking 
to dispel the darkness of night with the triple light of the Masonic 
Lodge."

"The glorious privileges of a Master Mason are in keeping with his greater 
knowledge and wisdom...For Him the Heavens have opened and the Great Light 
has bathed him in its radiance.  The Prodigal Son, so long a wanderer in 
the regions of darkness, has returned to his Father's house.  The voice 
speaks from the Heavens, its power thrilling the Master until his own being 
seems filled with its divinity, saying, 'This is my beloved Son, in whom I 
am well pleased.'  He [The Master Mason], in truth has become the spokesman 
of the Most High.  He stands between the glowing fire light and the world.  
Through him passes Hydra, the great snake, and from its mouth there pours 
to man the light of God." 
(The Lost Keys of Freemasonry, Manly P. Hall, pages 92, 54-55, Macoy 
Publishing and Supply Co., Richmond, Va, 1976)

Friend, there is only one for whom the Father uttered those words and it 
wasn't a Master Mason...nor will it ever be so.  Jesus Christ is God's only 
mediator for you and me.  Do not let any MAN ever tell you that he is, or 
you may become, the spokesman of the Most High!  Further, if you think that 
God speaks through HYDRA, the great snake, your god comes right out of the 
pit!

                       OTHER TEACHINGS AND PRACTICES

                      USURPING THE PRIESTHOOD OF JESUS

In the 19th level of Scottish Rite Freemasonry, the Initiate receives the 
degree of GRAND PONTIFF.  It is during this ritual that the candidate 
swears an oath of secrecy and an oath of total obedience "to any Chapter of 
this degree to which I may belong; and the edicts, laws and mandates of the 
Grand Consistory of Sublime Princes and Commanders of the Royal Secret, as 
well as those of the Supreme council of the 33rd degree..."

It is then that the "Thrice Puissant" anoints him with oil on the crown of 
his head and says "Be Thou a Priest Forever, after the order of 
Melchizedek."

After receiving the password (Emanuel) and the sacred word (Alleluia), he 
is dressed in a robe of white linen and given a cordon (a ribbon or sash of 
honor worn across the breast) of crimson color, with 12 starts representing 
"the 12 gates of the "new city," and the twelve signs of the Zodiac, the 
twelve fruits of the tree of life, the twelve tribes of Israel and the 
twelve Apostles."  (Scottish Rite Masonry Illustrated, The Complete Ritual, 
Vol. 2, pages 26-27, E. Cook Publications, 1974)

It must be pointed out that what has taken place here, is the Masonic 
priesthood taking upon itself the Holy Priesthood of Jesus Christ.  That is 
a Priesthood that can be held by only one person and that one person is 
clearly defined in scripture as Jesus Christ!

Chapters 7 and 8 of the Book of Hebrews clearly explains that it was 
ANOTHER priest to be raised up, not a group of priests!  This Priest would 
be our HIGH PRIEST and would be able to save from the Uttermost!  He would 
have "endless life"!  The holder of THIS Priesthood would be "holy, 
harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners and made higher than the 
heavens." (7:26)  This is Jesus, our Holy Lord and God!

This "ritual" takes Christ's Holy Priesthood from Him, and the Grand 
Pontiff boldly puts it upon his own breast!  Even the use of "Biblical" 
words fails to cover up the adding in of the "signs of the Zodiac," a 
direct alliance with the powers of darkness and a demonstration of 
disobedience to God's Word.  In Deuteronomy 18:10-12, it says that he who 
"useth divination" (consulting the signs of the Zodiac to tell the future), 
"or is and observer of times" (which is an ancient description for Augury 
or Astrology - again dealing with the Zodiac) "is an abomination unto the 
Lord"!

Again, we see a mirror image of Biblical truth.  The Priesthood power of 
Jesus is given to the deceiver, Lucifer, the true god of Masonry, who hides 
behind its mystery, ritual and allegory to snare his prey.


                         WASHED IN THEIR OWN BLOOD

In the seventeenth degree, or Knights of the East and West, after the 
candidates have completed the initiation and after revealing the password 
(Jubulum) and the Sacred Word (Abaddon), "the Senior Warden conducts the 
Candidate to the elevated vacant canopy at the right of the All Puissant."

"This is supposed to represent the end of the world when all good masons 
receive their reward by being conducted to a throne at the right hand of 
the All Puissant, having been purified by washing their robes in their own 
blood."

In the lecture which follows between the All Puissant and the Senior 
Warden, the Book with Seven Seals - which none but one can open (Rev. 5:5) 
- is twisted to represent "A Lodge or Council of Masons which the All 
Puissant alone has the right to convene and open."

The Fourth Seal is represented by a skull or "Death's Head" and Masons are 
told it "is the image of a brother who is excluded from a Lodge or 
Council."  The Fifth Seal is represented by a "Cloth Stained with Blood."  
The All Puissant identifies this as a symbol "that we should not hesitate 
to spill ours for the good of masonry."  (Scottish Rite Masonry 
Illustrated, The Complete Ritual, Vol. 1, Pages 453, 457, E. Cook 
Publishing, 1974)

What a gross misrepresentation of God's Holy Word!  First and foremost, It 
is Christ and He alone who "hath prevailed to open the book and loose the 
seven seals thereof."  To presume that honor and power is to deny Christ, 
or yet in deeper perversity, to replace his power and authority with that 
of the All Puissant, even in the representation of the power to save and to 
enthrone.  This is the very spirit of the AntiChrist!

Again, another clue to the true identity of the Masonic deity is revealed 
in the "Sacred Word" of this ritual, "Abaddon."  In Revelation 9:11, we 
learn that "they [the demons and workers from hell] had a king over them, 
which is the angel of the bottomless pit, whose name in the Hebrew tongue 
is ABADDON!"


                         BLOOD OATHS NOT OF CHRIST!

Throughout the initiation rituals of the "BLUE LODGES" and through all 33 
degrees of Freemasonry, the candidates are sword to secrecy by bloody 
oaths.  Such as is the oath swore by the Entered Apprentice of first 
degree, "...binding myself under no less penalty than that of having my 
throat cut across, my tongue torn out by its roots, and my body buried in 
the rough sands of the sea, at low-water mark."  The Master Mason swears, 
"...under no less penalty than that of having my body severed in two, my 
bowels taken from thence and burned to ashes, the ashes scattered before 
the four winds of heaven..." (Duncan's Ritual of Freemasonry by Malcom 
Duncan, Third Edition, pages 36, 39, D. McKay Publishing Co., N.Y., N.Y.)


                              RAISING THE DEAD

It is in this final "Blue Lodge" degree that that candidate is laid out "in 
death" and is raised from the dead by the "Worshipful Master" of the Lodge 
(representing King Solomon), using the "strong grip" (or "Lion's Paw") of 
the Master Mason.

Let no Mason deceive you!  We again face this replacement of our Savior by 
the power and authority of Lucifer.  Paul said that if anyone should preach 
any other gospel "than that which we have preached unto you, let him be 
accursed."  (Gal. 1:8,9)

The simplicity of the Gospel is this, "Moreover, brethren, I declare unto 
you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also ye have received, and 
wherein ye stand; By which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I 
have preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain.  for I delivered 
unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for 
our sins according to the scriptures; and that he was buried, and that he 
rose again the third day according to the scriptures." (1 cor. 15:1-5)

The infinite power of Jesus was confirmed by Him when He said, "ALL power 
is given unto ME in heaven and in earth." (Matt. 28:18)  This power is His 
alone!  "For if by one man's offense death reigned by one; much more they 
which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness shall 
reign in life by one, Jesus Christ!" (Romans 5:17)

Jesus was the one who rose from the dead.  Jesus is the only one with the 
power to raise from the dead.  Jesus is the only one who frees us from the 
sting of death!

How can a Mason who calls himself Christian allow himself to partake of a 
ritual resurrection by the power of Lucifer?  This is Satanic!  He stands, 
having been born again and raised from the dead as a Master Mason, through 
the power of the Masonic god, whom the God of Israel cast into the pit!


                        MASONIC OATHS ABOVE THE LAW

One the "five points of fellowship," he and his "savior" pass the sacred 
word, Mah-Hah-Bone.

Also, while in this position, the new Master Mason solemnly vows "3d, 
Breast to Breast: that you will ever keep in your breast a brother's 
secrets, when communicated to you and received as such, murder and treason 
excepted." (Duncan's Rituals, Revised and Complete, pages 35, 96, 120, 121, 
E. Cook Publications, 1974)

It should further be noted that in the Royal Arch Degree, the candidate 
swears to protect the "brethren," "Murder and treason not excepted!"  This 
places the Masonic oath above that of our courts and our country.  What hope 
would you have against a Mason in a Criminal or Civil court with a Judge 
who is a 32nd or 33rd degree Mason?  None, by the nature of their oaths!


                     PAGAN COMMUNION - EATING THE DEAD 

"QUESTION:  What is to us the chief symbol of man's ultimate redemption and 
regeneration?

"ANSWER:  The fraternal supper, of bread which nourishes, and of wine which 
refreshes and exhilarates, symbolical of the time which is to come, when all 
mankind shall be one great harmonious brotherhood; and teaching us these 
great lessons:  that as matter changes ever, but no single atom is 
anniliated, it is not rational to suppose that the far nobler soul does not 
continue to exist beyond the grave:  that many thousands who have died 
might claim to be joint owners with ourselves of the particles that 
compose our physical bodies; for matter ever forms new combinations; and 
the bodes of the ancient dead, the patriarchs before and since the flood, 
the kings and the commonpeople of all ages, resolved into their 
constintuant elements, are carried upon the wind over all continents, and 
continually enter into and form part of the habitations of new souls, 
creating new bonds of sympathy and brotherhood between each man that lives 
and all his race.  And thus, in the bread we eat, and in the wind we drink 
tonight may enter into and form of us part of us the identical particles of 
matter that once formed parts of the material bodies called Moses, 
Confucius, Plato, Socrates, or Jesus of Nazareth.  In the truest sense, we 
eat and drink the bodies of the dead; and cannot say that there is a single 
atom of our blood or body, the ownership of which some other soul might not 
dispute with us." (page 539)


                               I EXHORT YOU!

                          COME OUT FROM AMONG THEM

IN THE NAME OF JESUS CHRIST, AND HIS SHED BLOOD AT CALVARY, I EXHORT YOU 
WHO CLAIM TO BE A MASON AND A CHRISTIAN, "Come out from among them and be 
ye separate, saith the Lord and touch not the unclean thing; and I will 
receive you." (2 Cor. 6:17)

"This is the stone which was set at nought of you builders, which is become 
the head of the corner.  Neither is there salvation in any other:  for 
there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be 
saved." (Acts 4:11-12)

"For there is One God and One Mediator between God and men, the man Christ 
Jesus." (1 Tim. 2:5)

"According to the grace of God which is given unto me, as a wise 
masterbuilder, I have laid the foundation and another buildeth thereon.  
But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon.  For other 
foundation can no man lay that that is laid, with is Jesus Christ." (1 Cor. 
3:10-11)

"Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is 
above every name:  That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of 
things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth; and that 
every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God 
the Father." (Phil. 2:9-11)

"Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers; for what fellowship 
hath righteousness with unrighteousness?  and what communion hat light with 
darkness?  And what concord hath Christ with Belial?  or what part hath he 
that believeth with an infidel?" (2 Cor.6:14,15)


                              ONE OR THE OTHER

Even as Elijah called out "Ye have forsaken the commandments of the Lord 
and thou has followed Baal!"  I cry out "How long halt you between two 
opinions?L  If the Lord be God, follow Him.  But if Baal, then follow him!" 
(1 Kings 18:18,21)

I am sorry, but there is not other choice for you right now.  If you are a 
Mason who professes to be a Christian either renounce your Christian faith 
or renounce Masonry.  One is from on high and the other is from the pit!  
You cannot cling to both!

Dare YOU risk laying your good works before the Lord on that last day only 
to be told, "I never knew you, depart from me!" (Matt. 7:21-23)

Every "Blue Lodge" member who reads this can no longer maintain his defense 
of ignorance.  Today, it stands revealed!  Today, you must make your 
choice!  Every Mason, through the highest degree, has had the mask of 
secrecy ripped away.  You are without defense.  Choose Jesus or choose 
Lucifer.  Renounce Jesus if you must, but do not stand in the assembly of 
His saints and mock Him!  Your unrepentant presence in the congregation of 
a Christian body is a grieving of the Holy Spirit.

I pray that you will choose Jesus, repent, and be set free from this wicked 
power unto whom you have submitted your very soul!  If this is your desire, 
remember that we have this promise, "If we confess our sins, He is faithful 
and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all 
unrighteousness." (1 John 1:9)

Pray this prayer with me right now!  "Father in Heaven, in the name of the 
Lord Jesus, I confess that I have sinned.  I confess that I have allowed 
myself to fall under the power and authority of Lucifer, the god of 
Masonry.  I confess it as sin, and ask that you forgive me.  I reject it 
and cast it from me and will immediately remove my name from its rolls!  
Jesus, I call you Lord and Saviour and ask that you come into my heart and 
fill me with your love and Holy Spirit.  Let no unclean thing remain!  I am 
yours and yours alone!  I am set free!  In Jesus' name, Amen!"

Write to me, dear friend and let me know of your decision for Jesus Christ!  
Your Brother in the Lord, J. Edward Decker Jr.


                "And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David;
                 Is it a small thing for you to weary men,
                      But will ye weary my God also?"
                                ISAIAH 7:13

                         FREE THE MASONS MINISTRIES
                               P.O. BOX 1077
                             ISSAQUAH, WA 98027


