
                             ATHIEST

    I won't waste time with a lot of garbage and get down to the bear
    facts "JESUS CHRIST" was a "MYTH", after read EXTENSIVELY, the
    three books,"The Holy Bible",Flavious Joesephus"and the "Aquaruian
    Gospel of Jesus christ"

    One Flavious Josesphus lied 7 times, number 2 there were several
    errors or intentional mistakes in the books of Mathew, Mark Luke and
    John (ie: see BIBLE.ERR file for more details )

    They say Jesus Christ was just like the rest of us, if you cut him
    he bled, you bet because he was "just like the rest" and he didn't
    want to die anymore than the rest of us.

    My belief is that back during that time period there were several
    "JUSUS'S from NAZRETH" the same as there were many "Mathews,
    Lukes, Marks and Johns."

    The Real Jusus of Nazreth hid in the Garden of Gethsymna, while
    Judas pointed out to the soldier a fake "Jesus of Nazreth"

    Then one of 2 things happened Jesus waylayed Judas, rembering "Dead
    Men Tell No Tails" and hung Judas or Judas was over come with guilt
    that he had sent an innocent man to the cross that he hung himself.

    The soldiers were only interested in finding a Jesus from Nazreth,
    not necessarily the right one.

    That is how the next day jesus could appear to his disciples the
    next day, because they all thought he had been crucified. When Jesus
    asked "DOUBTING THOMAS" if he wanted to place his hand in the wound
    in his side, it does NOT say that he took him up on the offer.

    When the man on the cross cried "MY GOD, MY GOD, WHY HAS THOU
    FORESAKEN ME !" what he actually said was "MY GOD, MY GOD what am I
    doing up here, I'M INNOCENT !"

    Several women were in on the deal to make the soldiers think that
    they had crucified the correct "JESUS fron NAZARETH." to protect the
    real one that was hidng out.

    I love my wife but I would never let someone tke my son and crucify
    him just to prove to my wife that I loved her, nor could any father
    knowing that he would suffer the agonies of death period.

    This is one mans opinion of what the tommy rot that the "NEW
    TESTAMENT" was built on, so you Christians better examine your faith
    a little closer. I have another essay called "VIRGIN.TXT" about the
    virgin birth you might want to read it also.

                                        Charles Clanton Jr.
                                        <C> copyright 1991

