                 SALVATION THROUGH CHRIST
                            vs:
                   THE EXALTATION OF MAN

God's word, the BIBLE, which clearly states that our 
salvation is through the shed blood of Jesus Christ, alone 
through one faith and His Grace --- not as a result of 
fabricating our own righteousness by "good works" by 
attempting to become "perfect" as a result of laws and 
ordinances of any organization.

                      I JOHN 5:11-13

   "And this is the record, that God hath given us eternal 
life, and this life is in His son. He that hath the Son 
hath life; and he that hath not the Son hath  not life. 
These things have I written unto you that believe on the 
name of the Son of God; that ye may know that ye have
eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the
Son of God."

God spells it out - you either have life through the Son 
or you reject Him. It is either Heaven or the Lake of Fire; 
no "grey areas"; no half-way locations. You either accept 
the Son or you reject Him. 

Mormonism claims to accept Jesus ----    

"We have His name on our church" - But we have now
seen that the Jesus of Mormonism is a different Jesus
- not any resembalance to the REAL Jesus. Further, by 
rejecting the total sufficiency of the New Covenant of the 
sacrifice of Jesus on the cross for their personal sins - 
and instead electing to attempt the old covenant of works, 
laws, temples, etc ----- they nullify the offer of eternal 
life as a gift by God's Love and immeasurable Grace:

                      GALATIANS  2:21

"I do not frustrate the Grace of God: for if righteousness 
come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain."
As a result, the Mormon believing in the Mormon Jesus, and 
not the real Jesus of the BIBLE; and following a life only
of works, even with utmost sincerity, without the saving 
faith in the one who died for them, personally, is LOST. We
don't say that - GOD says that - in HIS Word - The BIBLE

                  THREE KINGDOMS?

Let's go further ---- Mormonism claims three "heavens."
They take I CORINTHIANS 15:37-49 totally out of context to 
arrive at this false teaching. Where Paul is declaring that 
an individual's resurrected body is different in Glory from 
his earthly body - as the sun differs from the moon, from 
the stars - Mormonism has declared three kingdoms of Heaven:

                     TELESTIAL KINGDOM

Where all the wicked go, whether they've rejected God and 
Jesus all their life or not - Murderers, etc !

                    TERRESTIAL KINGDOM

Where good and honorable persons go - they only failed to 
accept the "gospel" of Mormonism.

                     CELESTIAL KINGDOM

a) LOWER DEGREE
Good Mormons, but failed to marry in the Temple and having 
"other" imperfections. These will be allowed to be angels.

b) MIDDLE DEGREE
Mormons who failed to accept the complete "gospel" but were 
married in the Temple, sealed to many wives, and are in the 
process of being exalted through baptism of the dead, etc.

c) HIGHEST DEGREE - EXALTATION
"Perfect" Mormons. They will be gods themselves just like 
God the Father. Will have eternal, multiple, marriages for 
the purpose of sexually procreating billions of spirit 
children to populate another world that they will reign 
over as that world's god.

                    MORMON TERMINOLOGY

Let's be "clear" on some important terms - even though you 
will find Mormon writers interchanging them, in a strict 
sense they are:

                         SALVATION

Resurrection only; immortality, or simply life after death. 
This is what Christ's death on the cross "achieved". This 
is what all mankind has by the Grace of God as a free gift. 
But "salvation" for what? This is just the bottom of the 
ladder.

"Those who gain only this general or unconditional 
salvation will still be judged according to their works and 
receive places in a Terrestial or Telestial kingdom. They 
will, therefore, be damned; their eternal progression will 
be cut short; they will not fill the full measure of their 
creation, but in eternity will be ministering servants to 
more worthy persons."
Bruce R. McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, "Salvation",pg 669,670 
(1966 Edition)

So, you see, salvation as a gift through Christ is nothing 
special to a Mormon. When they say, "Jesus is our Savior", 
this is what they give Him "credit" for!

Now, let's find out what the goal of Mormonism is. Who are 
these "more worthy persons" ?

EXALTATION = Eternal Life in the Highest Degree of the 
Celestial Kingdom. This is what Mormonism teaches day in 
and day out. McConkie continues -

"Conditional or individual salvation, that which comes by 
grace coupled with gospel obedience, consist in receiving 
an inheritance in the Celestial Kingdom  of God. This kind 
of salvation follows faith, repentance, baptism, receipt of 
the Holy Ghost, and continued righteousness to the end of 
one's mortal life. (D & C 20:29 & 2 Nephi 9:23-24). All 
others are damned --- Even those in the celestial kingdom 
however, who do not go on to exaltation, will have 
immortality only and not eternal life --- they will be 
'ministering servants, to minister for and to those who are 
worthy of a far more, and an exceeding and an eternal 
weight of glory'. They will live "separately and singly" in 
an unmarried state 'without exaltation, in their saved 
condition, to all eternity' (D & C 132:16,17). Salvation in 
its true and full meaning is synonymous with exaltation or 
eternal life and consist in gaining an inheritance in the 
highest of the three heavens within the Celestial Kingdom 
--- It is the salvation which saints seek --- This full 
salvation is obtained in and through the continuation of 
the family unit in eternity, and those who obtain it are 
gods --- If it had not been for Joseph Smith and the 
restoration, there would be no salvation. There is no 
salvation outside The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints."

"Then shall they be gods, because they have no end  -  Then 
shall they be gods, because they have all power ---"
(D & C 132:20)

"Here then is eternal life - to know the only wise and true 
God; and you have got to learn how to be gods yourselves, 
and to be kings and priest to God, the same as all gods 
have done before you --- and to sit in glory, as do those 
who sit in everlasting power --- What is it? To inherit the 
same power, the same glory and the same exaltation, until 
you arrive at the station of a god ---"
Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pg 345-347; 
Bruce R. McConkie, Mormon Doctrine, "Godhood", 1966 
Edition, pg 321
History of the Church, Volume 6, page 306

"They are they into whose hands the Father has given all 
things - they are they who are priest and kings, who have 
received of His fulness, and his glory -- they are gods --"
Doctrine & Covenants, 76:55-58

"As man is, God once was; as God is, man may become."
Lorenzo Snow, Millennial Star, Vol 54, pg 404

"Mormonism does not tend to debase God to the level of man,
but to exalt man to the perfection of God."
Charles W. Penrose,Millenial Star,Vol 23, pg 181

The above quotes appear in Milton R. Hunter's, The Gospel
Through The Ages (1958, pges 105-107) under the chapter 
heading "Men may become gods". Hunter surprisingly supports 
Mormonism's view of the Godhead of man by noting (on pg 117):
"Even the doctrine of a knowledge of God as the avenue to 
Godhood made its way outward from the Divine Fountain of 
Truth into the heathenistic religions of the Mediterranean 
world. The teaching of the HERMETIC pagan cult sound quite 
familiar to those who are acquainted with the doctrine 
taught by Jesus, by John the Beloved, by Paul, and by 
Joseph Smith, the American Prophet".

Sorry, but only the teachings of the latter sound familiar. 
Nowhere in the BIBLE do we find GOD saying man can reach 
godhood. Yes, we do find such a teaching in the BIBLE --- 
yet it is Satan who is doing the talking !!

Computers For Christ prays that this has been interesting
and has opened your eyes to the false nature of the Mormon
teachings. Leave us a message at termination if you wish us
to mail you any additional material.
** END OF TEXT **



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
