
                      WHY DO I BELIEVE ...
                A SKEPTIC'S GUIDE TO CHRISTIANITY


                        *** WARNING! ***

     This essay is going to change your life -- One way or another! 
After you have read it, you will have been exposed to God's plan of
Salvation.  You will be accountable to God, and you will have to
make a decision.  The answer will either be YES, NO, or NO
DECISION.  (Realize, though, that failure to make a decision is the
same as deciding NO!).

                         ***************

     The purpose of this essay is to provide a guide to the worldly
skeptic to show that it is possible for a skeptic to accept the
Word of God, and to put his trust in the Lord Jesus Christ.  In
preparing this essay, the following guidelines have been observed:

1.   There will be as few DIRECT scripture quotes from the Bible as
possible, since the skeptic non-believer will probably not believe
that the Bible is the true word of God.

2.   Other than right now, I will not tell you that your soul is in
mortal danger if you are not saved by the precious blood of Jesus,
because the worldly skeptic will not believe it.  The skeptic
believes that Heaven and Hell do not exist, or that if they do
exist, a God of Love will certainly not condemn "good" people to
eternal damnation.   (Please refer to the "warning message above to
determine if you wish to proceed!).

3.   The author WILL use the Bible, and ask God's direction in the
preparation of this effort.

                  QUALIFICATIONS OF THE AUTHOR

     Simply a Born-Again Christian who was, and still is, a
skeptic.  One who, although he has absolute faith in the Lord Jesus
Christ, still feels obligated to question and investigate claims
made by church leaders and Biblical interpreters.  One who had to
deal intellectually with many of these issues prior to putting
faith in the teachings of Christianity, and accepting Jesus as his
personal savior.

                           DISCLAIMER

     The author is expressing his views alone, based upon his own
religious experience and his interpretation of the Bible, and not
necessarily the views of any other group of Christians or church
organizations.
               First let me start by saying that I have been a "cynic" and a
"skeptic" for most of my adult life.  I have chosen to accept the
cynics' view of the world, in that, prior to becoming a Christian,
I had to be shown the logic, and the proof of whatever I chose to
believe.  I took pride in looking for the "real motive" behind what
people said and did.  Now that I am a Christian, I find that I am
still a skeptic.  The main difference is that I now accept the
Bible on faith alone, and have accepted the Lord as my personal
savior.  The skeptic portion in me "pops-up" when I hear an
interpretation of the Bible that doesn't sound right, when I hear
Christian accounts that go against the Word of God, and when I see
Evangelical Christians -- the ones who should know better --
behaving in a way that hurts the body of Christ.  Jesus must be
heart-broken at times when he watches His people behaving in ways
that go against His Spirit!

    HOW CAN A LOVING GOD COMMIT PEOPLE TO ETERNAL DAMNATION?

     It is important to realize that God is not only a Loving God,
but also a Jealous and a Righteous God.  As such, he is NOT WILLING
to exist in the presence of Sin.  What this means is that He has
established absolute laws regarding sin and unrighteousness.  Thus,
anyone who does not meet the standards of righteousness cannot come
to be in His presence. This is an important concept -- perhaps one
of the most important to understand.  Under the old laws (Old
Testament), some sort of sacrifice was required -- generally the
shedding of blood through an animal sacrifice -- as a means of
forgiving sin.  Every time a sin was committed, the person would
have to sacrifice another animal.  (This is a practice that is
still present in many of the other religions of the world today). 
The shedding of blood is necessary because, in God's realm, the
only reward of sin is death.  This in itself, however, was
insufficient because very few people were able to follow the law to
the letter, and were therefore not acceptable to be in the presence
of God.  In addition, it seems that whenever God tried to send a
prophet to tell the people of the time how to behave, the
"powers-that-be" of those times usually found some reason to stone,
torture, ridicule, exile, and/or kill the messenger.  This seems to
have been the pattern throughout the Old Testament, up to AND
INCLUDING Jesus Christ.  Because God loves us, and He knows that we
are unrighteous, He sent, as a last resort, His Son - Jesus Christ
- to be a final sacrifice for the sins of mankind.  In other words,
animal sacrifices would no longer be necessary.  All that would now
be necessary would be to ACCEPT the ultimate sacrifice of Jesus,
based on faith, and we would be cleansed, (given a "pardon", as it
were), thus making us acceptable to God.
     An example of this in everyday life is the "hot potato."  If
a child goes to take a bite of a hot potato, his mother will try to
warn him that it is hot!  If the child persists in taking a full
bite, he'll burn his tongue.  God's law is similar.  He says that
He will not permit the unrighteous to be in His presence.  Knowing
that we are incapable of being righteous, He sent the Lord.  Our
choice is not unlike the hot potato.  If we ignore his warning, we
will get burned!

SUMMARY:  Although our God is a loving God, he is also a righteous
God.  As such, He WILL NOT TOLERATE being in the presence of sin.

                          WHAT IS SIN?

     Since sin is the basis of this whole problem (ie: if there
weren't sin, we wouldn't need salvation), we should probably devote
a little space to the subject.  The following is a list of some of
the activities God has stated that he views as sinful.  Without
Salvation, any one of them will cause us to go to Hell:

                                                                                                         Adultery
                                                                                                         Avarice
                                                                                                         Cheating
                                                                                                         Drunkenness
                                                                                                         Envy
                                                                                                         Greed
                                                                                                         Homosexuality
                                                                                                         Idol Worship
                                                                                                         Jealousy
                                                                                                         Lying
                                                                                                         Murder
                                                                                                         Stealing
                                                                                                         etc...

     Although most of us don't go around murdering people, how many
of the other sins noted above do you regularly indulge in -- (Often
without even thinking of it as a sin?).  In today's liberal age,
many of these sins occur so frequently, that people tend to not
even notice.  But God DOES, and He finds it displeasing!

                          WHAT IS HELL?

     In view of the previous section, this question is appropriate
at this time.
     There have been many interpretations and suggestions regarding
Hell and "eternal damnation".  I would offer the following
interpretation:

     I feel that Hell is a spiritual, rather than a physical
phenomenon.  There have been references to the "Lake of Fire", and
other references to "heat" and "burning". However, one of the most
frequent quotes pertaining to the non-believer's punishment is
"weeping" and "gnashing of teeth." Therefore, I humbly suggest that
the final punishment is eternal remorse, anguish, and helplessness
due to the spirit (soul) being separated from God.  I base this on
the belief that everyone's spirit LONGS to be in the presence of
God.  (Even the spirit belonging to the sinner. Unfortunately, the
sinner just doesn't know it).  The ultimate punishment for
non-repentant sin is the eternal separation of the person's soul
from the presence of God.

     ANGUISH -- is an excellent adjective to describe what I have
attempted to point out above.  We have all had instances in our
lives when we have felt true anguish.  For instance, talk about
"weeping" and "gnashing of teeth":

- A loved one is killed in a car accident.  "WHAT IF.... he had
only left home several minutes later, he would still be alive!"

- "I knew I had too much to drink last night.  WHY DID.....  I have
to prove that I could drink and still drive safely.  Now I have to
live with the memory of that child I killed for the rest of my
life!"

- A front door to the house is left open, and a loved pet runs out
into the street and is hit by a car.  "IF ONLY.....  I had closed
the door!"

- Possibly the most common example:  A loved one is suddenly dead. 
"IF ONLY.... I had told her how much I loved her -- Now I will
never have the chance!"

     I'm sure you have own examples to draw from.  Now imagine that
anguish being carried for ETERNITY with no chance of relieving it,
and nothing else to think about to get your mind off of it, even
temporarily.  This brings us to the truly ultimate "If Only.....": 
- "IF ONLY..... I had accepted the Lord as my Personal Savior when
I had the chance!  Now it's too late!!!"

     Mr. Skeptic, please excuse me for a moment while I speak to
any Believing Christians who may be reading this:

     Fellow Christian, may I add a special message to you at this
point:  The ultimate "WHAT-IF...." for a Christian must be:

     At the final judgment, while you are heading toward heaven,
you pass several of your un-saved former friends and acquaintances
who are heading toward their final area.  They say to you:  "Why
didn't you tell us?  We knew you were a Christian, but you never
tried to seriously warn us of the consequences.  Sure, we teased
and made fun of you, but all you ever did was quote Bible
Scripture. You never REALLY explained!  NEVER........WHY????? IF
ONLY.... YOU HAD TRIED HARDER!!!"

          IS SATAN ALIVE AND WELL AND EARNING HIS KEEP?

     This is probably the easiest question to answer.  All I have
to say to you is:  LOOK AROUND!  I won't even talk about the
increasing popularity of Satanism, the magical arts, and
Witchcraft.  Look at the overall human condition:
- Have you noticed how many burglar alarm companies are doing
business and THRIVING?

- There are actually organizations which openly encourage "Man-Boy"
love relationships.

- The Police are almost universally unable to keep up with crime in
their areas. 

- When was the last time that you felt comfortable leaving the door
to your home unlocked.?

- When was the last time you felt comfortable walking down a lonely
street at night?

- When was the last time that you left a package in your car while
shopping in a shopping center, and didn't lock your door?

- Have you noticed the resurgence of racism and militancy? 

- Have you noticed the statistics on how many Americans feel they
must own a handgun for protection?

- Casual (recreational) drug use is now acceptable, and seems to be
becoming the norm.

- The family is the center of Christian life, as well as society as
we know it.  Have you noticed the divorce rate, as well as the
number of single parents?

- etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc.

     Whether you call him Satan, the Devil, Evil, -- WHATEVER --
you cannot deny that there is an extremely unsavory factor becoming
prominent in our lives.

         WILL JEWS AND OTHER NON-CHRISTIANS GO TO HEAVEN
                               or
      WHAT MAKES YOU THINK THAT YOU HAVE THE ONLY ANSWERS?

     This is the question that will most often be asked by the
skeptic, and it is a valid one.  To answer this, one must take
several factors into consideration:

     A Christian is NOT permitted to be the "judge and jury" of
others.  That is God's role, not ours.  The only answer to the
question of who will go to heaven is "I don't know!" That is also
the only valid answer to the question, even if answered by a
skeptic.  This is one of those areas in which you must refer to the
Bible for answers.

JEWS:  They are God's chosen people.  I believe that they have the
option of following the "Old Laws" (which is VERY difficult), or
turning to Christ.

Members of Eastern (Pagan) Religions:  The Bible (Both New and Old
Testament) specifically prohibits the worshipping of idols, as well
as such activities as sorcery and witchcraft. You can make your own
assumptions based on that.

Those who have NEVER been exposed to Christianity: Unfortunately,
the only honest answer to this is "I don't know!"  This is between
God and that individual.  The New Testament is very clear, though,
in that "The only way to the Father is through the Son".

     The only categories of people in which a Christian can give a
definite answer are:

- Unrepentant sinners who have heard the Message of Salvation: 
They are going to Hell!  No question about it.  (This covers the
vast majority of the western population, as well as anyone who has
read this text).

- Sinners who have accepted the Lord Jesus Christ as their Personal
Savior will go to Heaven.

     This is a difficult topic to discuss, because no one wants to
hear bad news.  I hope, however, that this explanation has helped
to some degree, or will at least spark some serious thought.

     At this point, I would like to add a special note to Teachers
and Ministers of the Christian Faith:  Remember, according to the
Bible, you will be held accountable to a higher standard than the
rest of us.  I pray you will conduct yourselves accordingly.

                    CAN HOMOSEXUALS BE SAVED?

     "God loves the sinner, but hates the sin."  On that basis, yes
indeed a homosexual can be Saved.  As with all of us, in order to
be saved, the person must acknowledge that he is a sinner (not just
in his homosexual behavior, but in all aspects of his life), ask
the Lord for forgiveness, and accept Jesus Christ as his personal
Savior.  The question of homosexuality will then become one that
the individual must deal with directly with God through his belief
in Jesus Christ.  The Bible states very clearly throughout the Old
and New Testaments that Homosexuality is abnormal and is sinful
behavior.  As such, the individual may feel compelled to change his
activity.  The most important part is for the Homosexual to accept
Christ.  Once that is done, it is up to the homosexual to seek The
Lords' help and guidance.
     As in the previous question, no one, especially a Christian,
is in a position to judge whether or not a SAVED Homosexual is
going to Heaven or Hell.  We only know that an UN-SAVED Homosexual
WILL go directly to Hell!

                  EVOLUTION -- FACT OR FICTION

     Many skeptics point to the theory of Evolution as being proof
positive that the Biblical version of Creation is "hogwash." Some
Christians, in turn, point to Genesis and the Biblical version of
Creation, and state that, therefore, Evolution is "hogwash", and
that anyone who believes in Evolution is "going to Hell".
     My thoughts on the subject are rather simple and straight to
the point.  I am a Born-Again Christian, I believe that the Bible
is the True and un-faltering Word of God, I believe in the Saving
Grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, I believe in the evolutionary
process, and I know I am going to Heaven.  Now, how can I say all
that and still maintain any kind of credibility?  Easy!
     For a long time, this was a stumbling block to my acceptance
of Christianity.  There are MANY convincing scientific arguments in
favor of portions of the evolutionary process. Who is to say that
God did not utilize what we describe as evolution in his ultimate
plan of creation.  Genesis does NOT go into great detail as to the
mechanics of creation.  All it says, basically, is that God created
the universe in six days, and rested on the seventh.  In Genesis,
it states:

     "...Let the land produce living creatures...", and then
"...The Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground..."

     It is possible, then, that these passages indicate a common
originality of men and other living creatures.  (A quick note to
any Christians who may be reading this: I realize these are partial
quotations, and that there are many other interpretations of these
passages.  My point is that certain portions of evolution could
certainly have been a factor). In addition, there is no reference
as to how much time one day actually was.  It could very possibly
have been eons, and enough time to support the evolutionary
process.
     My belief, therefore, is that Evolution -- UNDER GOD'S
DIRECTION -- is a viable explanation.

     The important point is that this issue is, essentially,
UNIMPORTANT!  What is important is the personal relationship with
Jesus that comes after you have accepted Him as your personal Lord
and Savior.  Unfortunately, too many non-believers base their
non-belief on their assumption that The Bible and the Evolutionary
Theory are incompatible, and too many Christians over-react and
support that viewpoint.  This then becomes a needless stumbling
block to accepting Jesus.
 
                 AIDS -- IS IT THE WRATH OF GOD?
                               and
  DISTRIBUTION OF CLEAN NEEDLESS -- SHOULD WE OR SHOULDN'T WE?
               The question of Aids is one that cuts to the core of Human
Sexuality, Morals, Compassion, and Religious Beliefs.  What I am
about to say is MY OPINION, and other Christians may or may not
agree with me.
     First, I do not believe that God has purposely inflicted any
specific individuals with the Aids virus.  I do feel, however, that
certain actions were set into place since the time of Adam and Eve. 
Could this be a sign of the end-times? I don't know -- but it is a
definite possibility!
     The role of the Christian in these matters is NOT TO JUDGE! 
Our role is to provide compassion to the victims, and to continue
to spread the Good News of the Lord Jesus Christ to them, while
they are still in a position to hear and accept the Word.

     Regarding the question of the distribution of clean needles to
drug addicts, I definitely agree.  Let me state clearly that I
certainly do not condone drug abuse, and I certainly have no desire
to make their illicit activity any easier to pursue. 
Unfortunately, the reality of the situation is that a drug addict
is going to continue shooting up drugs - either with clean, or with
dirty, needles.  Since IV drug abuse is one of the leading causes
of the spread of Aids, I sincerely feel that we must do whatever we
can to control the spread.
     The role of the Christian, again, is, DO NOT JUDGE!  There
have been arguments raised that Jesus is the only answer, and that
the distribution of needles goes against the teachings of Christ. 
The fact that Jesus is the only answer is a valid argument. 
However, unless a drug addict accepts Christ, he is probably going
to keep on shooting drugs, and spreading the disease.  Therefore,
our obligation is to try to limit the spread of the disease while
we also try to salvage the junkie's soul for Jesus.

            EVANGELICAL PREACHERS WHO FALL FROM GRACE
                            should we
                     LOVE 'EM OR SHOOT 'EM?

My answer to this is:  BOTH! - but more about that later.

     I sincerely feel that these "Tele-Evangelists" are, for the
most part, sincere people who are preaching the Word of God
accurately.  However, as with all of us, Power Corrupts!  It is not
surprising to me that someone who once had a clear vision can
become contaminated with money, greed, power, fame, and all of the
other material things that most of us would find desirable.
     Many Christians, (myself included), don't care for the "show-
like" atmosphere of the TV Evangelists.  They have, however,
brought many, many people to Christ.  Therefore, it is a ministry
that must survive.  Perhaps the recent events of "fallen
evangelists" was to be expected, and may even have a positive
effect on that ministry.  Just maybe, there will be an increase in
accountability, as well as more of an attempt to include Jesus in
the marketing plans!
               Now, as for my answer to the original question; as I said, my
answer is BOTH!  As human beings with the same weaknesses,
frailties, etc. that we all have, we must offer them our love,
compassion and our prayers to help them get through their personal
tragedies.  On the same token, the Human part of my being would
like to "shoot 'em" for what they have done to the recent
credibility of the church.  But remember, as I stated earlier, "God
loves the Sinner, but hates the Sin!". So, then, should we!

          ARE ATHEISTS "FOOLISH" OR ON THE RIGHT TRACK?

     This is a topic that is bound to raise some eyebrows.  To the
question "are atheists "foolish" or on the right track, my answer
has to be NEITHER!
     First, no one's opinion (assuming it is one that has been
reasoned through, and is not presented just to get a "reaction")
should ever be considered foolish.  In fact, in the eyes of God, we
are all judged on a relatively black and white basis -- with very
few shades of gray.  As such, the atheist is no worse off than any
other non-repentant sinner. Therefore, if one chooses not to accept
the Lord, what is the difference if he is an agnostic, an atheist,
a witch, etc. The atheist, at least, will tend not to be a
hypocrite.
     However, I must admit that I have difficulty understanding the
beliefs of an atheist.  Prior to being saved, I categorized myself
as an agnostic.  I felt there was a higher power, but didn't choose
to call it a "God."  I felt that there had to be a higher power,
because how else could we explain the overall "order" of the
universe.  I simply felt that this "power" was uninvolved,
uncaring, and probably more or less inanimate.  My main
disagreement with the atheists (prior to my being Born Again as a
Christian), was that I couldn't comprehend that EVERYTHING was an
accident, and that man is the ultimate being.  (If man really is
the ultimate being, we are ALL in serious trouble).

  MUST YOU BE IN AN "EMOTIONAL" STATE IN ORDER TO ACCEPT CHRIST
                               or
      CAN YOU OBTAIN SALVATION RATIONALLY AND OBJECTIVELY?

     Many Christians come to the Lord during a profound personal
crisis.  Such life events as serious illnesses and accidents in the
family, job losses, children in trouble, etc. generally cause
people to look to God for help.  At these times, people are very
receptive, and hence the term "foxhole salvations."  This can be a
true spiritual experience in which the person truly accepts the
Lord as his personal savior, or it can be a transient decision; one
that will be renounced later.
     If a person, on the other hand, chooses to intellectually
investigate the teachings of Christ, read the Bible, compare known
historical events with those recorded in the Bible, he can indeed
make a rational decision to be Saved.  All that the Bible teaches
that is required for Salvation is:
1.             Acknowledgment that you are a sinner and in need of salvation. 
(Please refer back to the list of sins to see if you qualify). 
Even if you are a "nice person," if you volunteer your time and
money to the poor, if you never steal, rape, murder, or cheat on
your wife, you are still a sinner in God's eyes.

2.   You must believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and that
He was was placed on earth by God in order to become the ultimate
sacrifice so that we would than be acceptable to God.

3.   You must pray to God, through Jesus Christ, for forgiveness,
by accepting the sacrifice He made. I have included a "sample
salvation" prayer at the end of this text that you may find
helpful.

     Skeptic, if you feel a "tug", the feeling that "maybe there is
a little something more to this then I thought," I would like to
point out the following:

- The Bible says that all you need is a "mustard seed's" worth of
faith to be saved.

- God PROMISES that all who searches him, in earnest, will find
him, through Jesus Christ.

- If you feel that you have that "mustard seed" worth of faith, but
are afraid of looking "foolish" to your friends, family, or
acquaintances, then don't make a public commitment.  In the privacy
of your bedroom, when the rest of the family is out of the house,
try to pray.  Tell God that you are taking him at his word, that
you have a mustard seed's worth of faith, that you are a sinner,
and that you want to accept Christ into your life.  The worst that
will happen is that you will look foolish to yourself.  The best
that will happen will be an overall sense of well-being, as well as
eternal protection for your spirit.

     The following prayer, if spoken with SINCERITY and FROM THE
HEART is the first step toward a life-long walk with God, the
forgiveness of Sin, and eternal salvation.  (Remember that the
exact words aren't as important as the thoughts and feelings
involved):

     "Heavenly Father, As I now pray to you in earnest, I confess
my sins before you and acknowledge that I am unworthy of your
presence.  I ask your forgiveness in the name of Jesus Christ, your
Son who came to earth to die so that I may live!
     I confess my sins with my lips, and accept Jesus as my Savior
in my heart!
     Father, I have only a "mustard seed" worth of faith, but Your
Word assures me that this is all that I need.  I ask that you help
me to realize the reality of Jesus Christ, to build this seed of
faith into a small seedling, and to ultimately become a Strong Tree
of Faith.
     I ask this in the Name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, whom I now
accept as my personal Savior!"   Amen!

     If you do what I have recommended, don't expect a sudden
"Surge of the Spirit."  Although it can happen, chances are likely
that it won't.  What will happen is that, very likely, you won't
feel very different at all.  In fact, you may wonder the next day
why you "tried it."  If you are serious, then you must start
reading the Bible.  There are many modern day translations (The New
International Version or the New American Standard are two
translations that are easy to read without the traditional "thee's
and thou's."), and who's accuracy has been verified.  Read the New
Testament (it really isn't that difficult, given today's easier
reading translations).  Pray daily -- pray to God, through Jesus
Christ (ie: "In the name of Jesus").  Try to talk with other
Christians that you know who have had backgrounds similar to yours. 
Don't expect miracles or magic tricks.  Just do this for a while,
and, if you are serious, you will begin to sense subtle changes. 
God will send His Holy Spirit to comfort you.  You may actually
begin to enjoy going to church.  (I used to dislike it immensely,
now I truly enjoy it).  Choose a church that preaches the "Full
Gospel!"  (There are many, many churches listed in the yellow
pages, but not all of them are "alive".  Avoid a church that only
has services Sunday Morning.  Churches that are "Alive with God's
Spirit" will have spiritual activities going on throughout the
week!). Watch out for Cults!  Religions such as Jehovah's
Witnesses, The Unification Church, The Mormon Church, and others
ARE NOT Christian.  Believe it or not, you will even begin to enjoy
reading the Bible!  Remember, Satan will try to make you renounce
what you have done.  He will attempt to make you feel that what you
did was indeed foolish.  Part of your daily prayers should be a
periodic renouncement of Satan, and prayer that God will help you
to continue to develop a full sense of the Holy Spirit.

     Being a Born-Again Christian is rather like having an intimate
friend who is always with you.  Once you develop a relationship
with Jesus, He is someone you can talk to in your car, in the
shower, wherever....  You will develop an inner peace that you
didn't think possible.
     Once you understand the REAL sacrifice He made, you will begin
to realize how relatively unimportant many of the everyday affairs
are that used to get you angry.  Consider that He was in human
form, and DIDN'T REALLY WANT to face the pain, ridicule, and
torment of crucifixion (He even prayed to God to ask Him if He was
sure He really wanted Him to go through with it!).  He was so upset
about the upcoming events that HE ACTUALLY SWEAT BLOOD while
praying in the Garden of Gethsemane.  When you think about that, as
a believer, than the fact that your boss is giving you a hard time
over work becomes relatively unimportant! 

               I have spent many hours trying to develop this essay and have
done much self-introspection.  I have tried to answer many of the
questions that were stumbling blocks to me prior to being Saved. 
I prefaced this effort as a "Skeptics' Guide to Christianity," and
said I would refrain from using direct scripture quotations
(although I guess I really did once or twice).  What I have found
is that, after all of the discussions, investigations, and
intellectual decisions, the final answer is faith.  That is one
area that, as a skeptic, I cannot argue or prove.  After the
skeptic has considered all of the data, he has to make a decision. 
The decision is to either reject the Lord, or to acknowledge that
"mustard seed of faith."

     I hope this effort will be useful in helping others reach the
right decision.

In The Name of Our Lord, Jesus Christ.

 Jeff Mehl
 C/O Maranatha BBS
 (914) 221-0379