Newsgroups: talk.religion.misc
From: dzkriz@ocf.berkeley.edu (Dennis Kriz)
Subject: THE TRIDUUM - Holy Saturday - Easter Vigil Mass - Liturgy of Light
Message-ID: <1q7pti$t9b@agate.berkeley.edu>
Date: 11 Apr 1993 00:48:50 GMT
Organization: U. C. Berkeley Open Computing Facility
Lines: 221


Part 1 Service of Light

Blessing of the Fire and Lighting of the Easter Candle
------------------------------------------------------


[A large fire is prepared in a suitable place.  The people and
the priest assemble there with the other ministers (carrying the
Easter candles).  The priest then greets the assembly in the
usual manner and briefly instructs them about the vigil in these
or similar words]:

Priest: Dear friends in Christ,
     on this most holy night,
     when our Lord Jesus Christ passed from death to life,
     the Church invites her children throughout the world
     to come together in vigil and prayer.
     This is the passover of the Lord:
     if we honor the memory of his death and resurrection 
     by hearing his word and celebrating his mysteries, 
     then we may be confident
     that we shall share in his victory over death

     and live with him for ever in God.

[then the fire is blessed]

Priest: Let us pray.
     Father, 
     we share in the light of your glory
     through your Son, the light of the world.
     Make this new fire holy, and inflame us with new hope.
     Purify our minds by this Easter celebration
     and bring us one day to the feast of eternal light.
     We ask this through Christ our Lord.

All: AMEN.

[To stress the dignity and significance of the Easter candle, the
following may be done.  After the blessing of the new fire, the
priest cuts a cross in the was with a stylus.  Then he traces the
Greek letter alpha above the cross, the letter omega below, and
the numerals of the current year of our Lord between the arms of
the cross. Meanwhile he says]:

1. Christ yesterday and today (as he traces the vertical arm of
the cross).
2. the beginning and the end (the horizontal arm).
3. Alpha (alpha above the cross),
4. and Omega (omega, below the cross):
5. all time belongs to him (the first numeral, in the upper left
corner of the cross);
6. and all the ages (the second numeral in the upper right hand
corner);
7. to him be the glory and power (the third numeral in the lower
left corner):
8. through every age for ever.  Amen (the last numeral in the
lower right corner).

[When the cross and other marks have been made, the priest may
insert five grains of incense in the candle.  Hew does this in
the form saying]:

1. By his holy                     1
2. and glorious wounds        4    2    5
3. may Christ our Lord             3
4. guard us
5. and keep us. Amen.

[The priest lights the candle from the new fire, saying]:

Priest:   May the light of Christ, rising in glory,
          dispel the darkness of our hearts and minds.

[Any or all of the preceding rites may be used, depending on the
local pastoral circumstances]


Procession:

[the deacon or the priest then takes the Easter candle, lifts it
high, and sings]:

Deacon/Priest: Christ our light.  Thanks be to God.

[All process to the darkened church, led by the deacon/priest
with the Easter candle.  If incense is used, the thurifer goes
before the deacon/priest.  At the church door the deacon/priest
lifts the candle high and sings a second time:

Deacon/Priest: Christ our light.
ALL:      THANKS BE TO GOD.


[Then the lights in the church are but on:


The Easter Proclamation (Exsultet):

[If necessary, the Easter proclamation may be sung by one who is
not a deacon or priest.  In this case the words, "My dearest
friends," up to the end of the introduction are omitted, as is
the greeting "The Lord be with you."  All stand and hold lighted
candles.]


Priest/Deacon:
     Rejoice, heavenly powers! Sing, choirs of angles!
       Exult, all creation around God's throne!
       Jesus Christ, our King, is risen!
       Sound the trumpet of salvation!

     Rejoice, O earth, in shining splendor,
       radiant in brightness of your King!
       Christ has conquered! Glory fills you!
       Darkness vanishes for ever!

     Rejoice, O Mother Church! Exult in glory!
       The risen Saviour shines upon you!
       Let this place resound with joy,
       echoing the mighty song of all God's people!

     My dearest friends, standing with me in this holy light,     
       join me in asking God for mercy,
       that he may give his unworthy minister
       grace to sing his Easter praises.

Priest/Deacon:  The Lord be with you.
ALL:      AND ALSO WITH YOU.

Priest/Deacon: Lift up your hearts.
ALL:      WE LIFT THEM UP TO THE LORD.

Priest/Deacon: Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.
ALL:      It is right to give him thanks and praise.


Priest/Deacon:

     It is truly right
     that with full hearts and minds and voices 
     we should praise the unseen God, the all-powerful Father,
     and his only Son, our Lord Jesus Christ.

     For Christ has ransomed us with his blood,
       and paid for us the price of Adam's sin
       to our eternal Father!

     This is our passover feast,
       when Christ, the true Lamb, is slain,
       whose blood consecrates the homes of all believers.

     This is the night when first you saved our fathers:
       you freed the people of Israel from their slavery
       and led them dry-shod through the sea.

     This is the night when the pillar of fire
       destroyed the darkness of sin.

     This is the night when Christians everywhere,
       washed clean of sin
       and freed from all defilement,
       are restored to grace and grow together in holiness.

     This is the night when Jesus Christ
       broke the chains of death
       and rose triumphant from the grave.

     What good would life have been to us,
       had Christ not come as our Redeemer?

     Father, how wonderful your care for us!
       How boundless your merciful love!
       To ransom a slave
       you gave away your Son.

     O Happy fault, O necessary sin of Adam,
       which gained for us so great a Redeemer!

     Most blessed of all nights, chosen by God
       to see Christ rising from the dead!

 
     Of this night scripture says:
       "The night will be as clear as day:
       it will become my light, my joy."


     The power of this holy night
       dispels all evil, washes guilt away,
       restores lost innocence, brings mourners joy;
       it casts out hatred, brings us peace, and humbles earthly
       pride.

     Night truly blessed when heaven is wedded to earth
       and man is reconciled with God!

     Therefore, heavenly Father, in the joy of this night,
       receive our Evening sacrifice of praise,
       your Church's solemn offering.

     Accept this Easter candle,
       a flame divided but undimmed,
       a pillar of fire that glows to the honor of God.
     
     Let it mingle with the lights of heaven
       and continue bravely burning
       to dispel the darkness of this night!

     May the Morning Star which never sets find this flame still 
         burning:
       Christ, that Morning Star, who came back from the dead,    
         and shed his peaceful light on all mankind,
       your Son who lives and reigns for ever and ever.

[After the Easter Proclamation, the candles are put aside and all
sit down]

---------------------------------------------------------------

Newsgroups: talk.religion.misc
From: dzkriz@ocf.berkeley.edu (Dennis Kriz)
Subject: THE TRIDUUM - Holy Saturday - Easter Vigil Mass - Liturgy of the Word
Message-ID: <1q7q0f$3f@agate.berkeley.edu>
Date: 11 Apr 1993 00:50:23 GMT
Organization: U. C. Berkeley Open Computing Facility
Lines: 886




Part II: Liturgy of the Word:

[There may be from two to seven readings from the Old Testament. 
After each reading a response is sung or said -- or there may be a
period of silent reflection.  This is followed by a prayer said by
the priest. (The reading from Exodus 14 must always be read).  Before
the readings begin, the priest speaks to the people in these or
similar words]:


Priest:   Dear friends in Christ,
     we have begun our solemn vigil.
     Let us now listen attentively to the word of God,
     recalling how he saved his people throughout history
     and, in the fullness of time,
     sent his own Son to be our Redeemer.
     Through this Easter celebration,
     may God bring to perfection
     the saving work he has begun in us.

FIRST READING: (Genesis 1:2-2:2)

In the beginning when God created the heavens and the earth, the
earth was a formless wasteland, and darkness covered the abyss, while
a mighty wind swept over the waters.

  Then God said, "Let there be light," and there was light.  God saw
how good the light was.  God then separated the light from the
darkness.  God called the light "day," and the darkness he called
"night."  Thus evening came, and morning followed -- the first day.

  Then God said, "Let there be a dome in the middle of the waters, to
separate one body of water from the other."  And so it happened: God
made the dome, and it separated the water above the dome from the
water below it.  God called the dome "the sky."  Evening came, and
morning followed -- the second day.

  Then God said, "Let the water under the sky be gathered into a
single basin, so that the dry land may appear."  And so it happened:
the water under the sky was gathered into its basin, and the dry land
appeared.  God called the dry land "the earth," and the basin of the
water he called "the sea."  God saw how good it was.  Then God said,
"Let the earth bring froth vegetation: every kind of fruit tree on
earth that bears fruit with its seed in it."  And so it happened: the
earth brought forth every kind of plant that bears seed and every
kind of fruit with its see in it.  God saw how good it was.  Evening
came, and morning followed -- the third day.

  Then God said: "Let there be lights in the dome of the sky, to
separate day from night.  Let them mark the fixed times, the days and
the years, and serve as luminaries in the dome of the sky, to shed
light upon the earth."  And so it happened: God made the two great
lights, the greater one to govern the day, and the lesser one to
govern the night; and he made the stars.  God set them in the dome of
the sky, to shed light upon the earth, to govern the day and the
night, and to separate the light from the darkness.  God saw how good
it was.  Evening came, and morning followed -- the fourth day.

  Then God said, "Let the water teem with an abundance of living
creatures, and on the earth let birds fly beneath the dome of the
sky." And so it happened: God created the great sea monsters and all
kinds of winged birds.  God saw how good it was, and God blessed
them, saying, "Be fertile, multiply, and fill the water of the seas:
and let the birds multiply on the earth."  Evening came, and morning
followed -- the fifth day.

  Then God said, "Let the earth bring forth all kinds of living
creatures: cattle, creeping things, and wild animals of all kinds."
And so it happened: God made all kinds of wild animals, all kinds of
cattle, and all kinds of creeping things of the earth.  God saw how
good it was.  Then God said: Let us make man in our image, after our
likeness.  Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, the birds
of the air, and the cattle, and over all the wild animals and all the
creatures that crawl on the ground."

          God created man in his image,
            in the divine image he created him;
            male and female he created them.

God blessed them, saying: "Be fertile and multiply: fill the earth
and subdue it.  Have dominion over the fish of the sea, the birds of
the air, and all of the living things that move on the earth."  God
also said: "See, I give you every seed-bearing plant all over the
earth and every tree that has seed-bearing fruit on it to be your
food; and to all the animals of the land, all the birds of the air,
and all the living creatures that crawl on the ground, I give all the
green plants for food."  And so it happened.  God looked at
everything he had made, and he found it was very good.  Evening came,
and morning followed --the sixth day.

  Thus the heavens and the earth and all their array were completed.
Since on the seventh day God was finished with the work he had been
doing, he rested on the seventh day from all the work he had
undertaken.

Reader:  This is the word of the Lord

ALL: THANKS BE TO GOD.


RESPONSORIAL PSALM: (Ps 104:1-2,4-6,10,12,13-14,24,35)


Cantor: Lord, send out your Spirit,
     and renew the face of the earth.
ALL: LORD, SEND OUT YOUR SPIRIT,
     AND RENEW THE FACE OF THE EARTH.

1.   Bless the LORD, O my soul!
       O LORD, my God, you are great indeed!
     You are clothed with majesty and glory,
       robed in light as with a cloak. <R>

2.   You fixed the earth upon its foundation,
       not to be moved forever;
     With the ocean, as with a garment, you covered it:
       above the mountains the waters stood. <R>

3.   You send forth springs into the watercourses
       that wind among the mountains.
     Beside them the birds of heaven dwell;
       from among the branches they send forth their song. <R>

4.   You water the mountains from your palace;
       the earth is replete with the fruit of your works,
     You raise grass for the cattle,
       and vegetation for men's use,
     Producing bread from the earth. <R>

5.   How manifold are your works, O LORD!
       In wisdom you have wrought them all --
       the earth is full of your creatures.
     Bless the LORD, O my soul! Alleluia.

ALL: LORD, SEND OUT YOUR SPIRIT,
     AND RENEW THE FACE OF THE EARTH.


Prayer:

Priest:   Let us pray.

     Almighty and eternal God,
     you created all things in wonderful beauty and order.
     Help us now to perceive
     how still more wonderful is the new creation
     by which in the fullness of time
     you redeemed your people 
     through the sacrifice of our passover, Jesus Christ.
     who lives and reigns for ever and ever.

ALL: AMEN.


SECOND READING: (Genesis 22:1-18)

Reader: A reading from the book of Genesis.

God put Abraham to the test.  He called to him, "Abraham!" "Ready!"
he replied.  Then God said: "Take your son Isaac, your only one, whom
you love, and go to the land of Moriah.  There you shall offer him up
as a holocaust on a height that I will point out to you. Early the
next morning Abraham saddled his donkey, took with him his son Isaac,
and two of his servants as well, and with the wood that he had cut
for the holocaust, set out for the place of which God had told him.

 On the third day Abraham got sight of the place from afar.  Then he
said to his servants: "Both of you stay here with the donkey, while
the boy and I go on over yonder.  We will worship and then come back
to you."  Thereupon Abraham took the wood for the holocaust and laid
it on his son Isaac's shoulders, while he himself carried the fire
and the knife.  As the tow walked on together, Isaac spoke to his
father Abraham.  "Father!" he said.  "Yes, son," he replied.  Isaac
continued, "Here are the fire and the wood, but where is the sheep
for the holocaust?"  "Son," Abraham answered, "God himself will
provide the sheep for the holocaust."  Then the two continued going
forward.

  When they came to the place of which God had told him, Abraham
built an altar there and arranged the wood on it.  Next he tied up
his son Isaac, and put him on top of the wood on the altar.  Then he
reached out and took the knife to slaughter his son.  But the LORD's
messenger called to him from heaven, "Abraham, Abraham!" "Yes, LORD,"
he answered.  "DO not lay your hand on the boy," said the messenger.
"Do not do the least thing to him.  I know now how devoted you are to
God, since you did not withhold from me your own beloved son."  As
Abraham looked about, he spied a ram caught by its horns in the
thicket.  So he went and took the ram and offered it up as a
holocaust in place of his son.  Abraham named the site Yahweh-yireh:
hence people now say, "On the mountain the LORD will see."

  Again the LORD's messenger called to Abraham from heaven and said:
"I swear by myself, declares the LORd, that because you acted as you
did in not withholding from me your beloved son, I will bless you
abundantly and make your descendants as countless as the stars of the
sky and the sands of the seashore; your descendants shall take
possession of the gates of their enemies, and in your descendants all
the nations of the earth shall find blessing -- all this because you
obeyed my command."

Reader: This is the Word of the Lord.

ALL: THANKS BE TO GOD.


RESPONSORIAL PSALM: (Ps (16:5,8,9-10,11)

Cantor: KEEP me safe, O God;
     you are my hope.

ALL: KEEP ME SAFE, O GOD;
     YOU ARE MY HOPE.

1.   O Lord, my allotted portion and my cup,
       you it is who hold fast my lot.
     I set the LORD ever before me;
       with him at my right hand I shall not be disturbed. <R>

2.   Therefore my heart is glad and my soul rejoices,
       my body, too, abides in confidence;
     Because you will not abandon my soul to the nether world,
       nor will you suffer your faithful one to undergo corruption.
     <R>

3.   You will show me the path to life, 
       fullness of joys in your presence,
       the delights at your right hand forever. <R>


PRAYER:

Priest:   Let us pray.

     God and Father of all who believe in you,
     you promised Abraham that he would become the father
       of all nations.
     And through the death and resurrection of Christ
     you fulfill that promise:
     everywhere throughout the world you increase your chosen people.
     May we respond to your call
     by joyfully accepting your invitation to the new life of grace.
     We ask this through Christ our Lord.

ALL: AMEN.



THIRD READING: (Ex. 14:15-15:1)

Reader: A reading from the book of Exodus.

The LORD said to Moses, "Why are you crying out to me?  Tell the
Israelites to go forward.  And you lift up your staff and, with hand
outstretched over the earth, split the sea in two, that the
Israelites may pass through it on dry land.  But I will make the
Egyptians so obstinate that they will go in after them.  Then I will
receive glory through Pharaoh and all his army, his chariots and
charioteers.  The Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I
receive glory through Pharaoh and his chariots and charioteers."

  The angel of God, who had been leading Israel's camp, now moved and
went around behind them.  The column of cloud also, leaving the
front, took up its place behind them, so that it came between the
camp of the Egyptians and that of Israel.  But the cloud now became
dark, and thus the night passed without the rival camps coming any
closer together all night long.  Then Moses stretched out his hand
over the sea, and the LORD swept the sea with a strong east wind
throughout the night and so turned it into dry land.  When the water
was thus divided, the Israelites marched into the midst of the sea on
dry land, with the water like a wall to their right and to their
left.

  The Egyptians followed in pursuit: all Pharaoh's horses and
chariots and charioteers went after them into the midst of the sea. 
In the night watch just before dawn the LORD cast through the column
of the fiery cloud upon the Egyptian force a glance that threw it
into a panic; and he so clogged their chariot wheels that they could
hardly drive.  With that the Egyptians sounded the retreat before
Israel, because the LORD was fighting for them against the Egyptians.

  Then the LORD told Moses, "Stretch out your hand over the sea, that
the water may flow back upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots and
their charioteers."  So Moses stretched out his hand over the sea,
and at dawn the sea flowed back to its normal depth.  The Egyptians
were fleeing head on toward the sea, when the LORD hurled them into
its midst.  As the water flowed back, it covered the chariots and the
charioteers  of the Pharaoh's whole army which had followed the
Israelites into the sea.  Not a single one of them escaped.  But the
Israelites had marched on dry land through the midst of the sea, with
the water like a wall to their right and their left.  Thus the LORD
saved Israel on that day from the power of the Egyptians lying dead
on the seashore and beheld the great power  that the LORD had shown
against the Egyptians, they feared the LORD and believed in him and
in his servant Moses.

  Then Moses and the Israelites sang this song onto the LORD:

I will sing to the LORD, for he is gloriously triumphant;
  Horse and chariot he has cast into the sea.


Reader: This is the Word of the Lord.

ALL: THANKS BE TO GOD.



RESPONSORIAL PSALM: (Ex. 15:1-2,3-4,5-6,17-18)


Cantor: Let us sing to the Lord;
     he has covered himself in glory.

ALL: LET US SING TO THE LORD;
     HE HAS COVERED HIMSELF IN GLORY.

1.   I will sing to the LORD, for he is gloriously triumphant;
       horse and chariot he has cast into the sea.
     My strength and my courage is the LORD,
       and he has been my saviour.
     He is my God, I praise him;
       the God of my father, I extol him. <R>

2.   The LORD is a warrior,
       LORD is his name!
     Pharaoh's chariots and army he hurled into the sea;
       the elite of his officers were submerged in the Red Sea. <R>

3.   The flood waters covered them,
       they sank into the depths like a stone.
     Your right hand, O LORD, magnificent in power.
       your right hand, O LORD, has shattered the enemy. <R>

4.   You brought in the people you redeemed
       and planted them on the mountain of your inheritance.
     The place where you made your seat, O LORD,
       the sanctuary, O LORD which your hands established.
     The LORD shall reign forever and ever. <R>



PRAYER:

Priest:   Let us pray.

     Father,
     even today we see the wonders
     of miracles you worked long ago.
     You once saved a single nation from slavery,
     and now you offer that salvation to all through baptism.
     May the peoples of the world become true sons of Abraham
     and prove worthy of the heritage of Israel.
     We ask this through Christ our Lord.

ALL: AMEN.



FOURTH READING: (Isaiah 54:5-14)


Reader: A reading from the book of the prophet Isaiah.

HE WHO has become your husband is your Maker;
  his name is the LORD of hosts;
Your redeemer is the Holy One of Israel,
  called God of all the earth.
The LORD calls you back,
  like a wife forsaken and grieved in spirit,
A wife married in youth and then cast off,
  says your God.
For a brief moment I abandoned you,
  but with great tenderness I will take you back.
In an outburst of wrath, for a moment
  I hid my face from you;
But with enduring love I take pity on you,
  says the LORD, your redeemer.
This is for me like the days of Noah,
  when I swore that the waters of Noah
  should never again delude the earth;
So I have sworn not to be angry with you,
  or to rebuke you.
Though the mountains may leave their place
  and the hills be shaken,
My love shall never leave you
  nor my covenant of peace be shaken,
  says the LORD, who has mercy on you.
O Afflicted one, storm-battered and unconsoled,
  I lay your pavements in carnelians,
  and your foundations in sapphires;
I will make your battlements of rubies,
  your cages of carbuncles,
  and all your walls of precious stones.
All your sons shall be taught by the LORD,
  and great shall be the peace of your children.

In justice shall you be established,
  far from the fear of oppression,
  where destruction cannot come near you.


Reader: This is the Word of the Lord.

ALL: THANKS BE TO GOD.



RESPONSORIAL PSALM: (Ps. 30:2.4.5-6,11-12.13)


Cantor: I will praise you, Lord, 
     for you have rescued me.

ALL: I WILL PRAISE YOU, LORD.
     FOR YOU HAVE RESCUED ME.


1.   I will extol you, O LORD, for you drew me clear
       and did not let my enemies rejoice over me.
     O LORD, you brought me up from the nether world;
       you preserved me from among those going down into the pit. <R>
     
2.   Sing praise to the LORD, you his faithful ones,
       and give thanks to his holy name.
     For his anger lasts but a moment;
       a lifetime, his good will.
     At nightfall, weeping enters in,
       but with the dawn, rejoicing. <R>

3.   Hear, O LORD, and have pity on me;
       O LORD, be my helper.
     You changed my mourning into dancing;
       O LORD, my God, forever will I give you thanks. <R>


PRAYER:

Priest:   Let us pray.

     Almighty and eternal God,
     glorify your name by increasing your chosen people
     as you promised long ago.
     In reward for their trust,
     may we see in the Church the fulfillment of your promise.   We
ask this through Christ our Lord.

ALL: AMEN.



FIFTH READING: (Isaiah 55:1-11)

Reader: A Reading from the book of the prophet Isaiah.

Thus says the LORD: 
All you who are thirsty,
  come to the water!
You who have no money,
  come, receive grain and eat;
Come, without paying and without cost,
  drink wine and milk!
Why spend your money for what is not bread:
  your wages for what fails to satisfy?
Heed me, and you shall eat well,
  you shall delight in rich fare.
Come to me heedfully,
  listen, that you may have life.
I will renew with you the everlasting covenant,
  the benefits assured to David.
As I have made him a witness to the peoples,
  a leader and commander of nations,
So shall you summon a nation you knew not,
  and nations that knew you not shall run to you,
Because of the LORD, your God, 
  the Holy One of Israel, who has glorified you.
Seek the LORD while he may be found,
  call him while he is near.
Let the scoundrel forsake his way,
  and the wicked man his thoughts;
Let him turn to the LORD for mercy;
  to our God, who is generous in forgiving.
For my thought are not your thoughts,
  nor are your ways my ways, says the LORD.
As high as the heavens are above the earth,
  so high are my ways above your ways
  and my thoughts above your thoughts.
For just as from the heavens
  the rain and snow come down 
And do not return there
  till they have watered the earth,
  making it fertile and fruitful,
Giving seed to him who sows 
  and bread to him who eats,
So shall my word be
  that goes forth from my mouth;
It shall not return to me void,
  but shall do my will,
  achieving the end for which I sent it.


Reader: This is the Word of the Lord.

ALL: THANKS BE TO GOD.



RESPONSORIAL PSALM: (Is. 12:2-3,4,5-6)


Cantor: You will draw water joyfully from the springs of salvation.

ALL:      YOU WILL DRAW WATER JOYFULLY FROM THE SPRINGS OF SALVATION.

1.   God indeed is my savior;
       I am confident and unafraid.
     My strength and my courage is the LORD,
       and he has been my saviour.
     With joy you will draw water
       at the fountain of salvation. <R>

2.   Give thanks to the LORD, acclaim his name;
       among the nations make known his deeds,
       proclaim how exalted is his name. <R>

3.   Sing praise to the LORD for his glorious achievement;
       let this be known throughout all the earth.
     Shout with exultation, O city of Zion,
       for great in your midst
       is the Holy One of Israel! <R>



PRAYER:

Priest: Let us pray.
     
     Almighty, ever-living God,
     only hope of the world,
     by the preaching of the prophets
     you proclaimed the mysteries we are celebrating tonight.    
     Help us to be your faithful people,
     for it is by your inspiration alone 
     that we can grow in goodness.
     We ask this through Christ our Lord.

ALL: AMEN.



SIXTH READING: (Bar. 3:9-15,32-4:4)

Reader: A Reading from the book of the prophet Baruch.


Hear, O Israel, the commandments of life:
  listen, and know prudence!
How is it, Israel,
  that you are in the land of your foes,
  grown old in a foreign land,
Defiled with the dead,
  accounted with those destined for the nether world?
You have forsaken the fountain of wisdom!
  Had you walked in the way of God,
  you would have dwelt in enduring peace.
Learn where prudence is,
  where strength, where understanding;
That you may know also 
  where are length of days, and life,
  where light of the eyes, and peace.
Who has found the place of wisdom,
  who has entered into her treasuries?
He who knows all things knows her: 
  he has probed her by his knowledge --
He who established the earth for all time,
  and filled it with four-legged beasts;
He who dismisses the light, and it departs,
  calls it, and it obeys him trembling;
Before whom the stars at their posts 
  shine and rejoice;
When he calls them, they answer, "Here we are!"
  shining with joy for their Maker.
Such is our God;
  no other is to be compared to him:
He has traced out all the way of understanding,
  and has given her to Jacob, his servant,
  to Israel, his beloved son.
Since then she has appeared on earth,
  and moved among men.
She is the book of the precepts of God,
  the law that endures forever;
All who cling to her will live,
  but those will die who forsake her.
Turn, O Jacob, and receive her:
  walk by her light toward splendor.
Give not your glory to another,
  your privileges to an alien race.
Blessed are we, O Israel:
  for what pleases God is known to us!


Reader: This is the Word of the Lord.

ALL: THANKS BE TO GOD.



RESPONSORIAL PSALM: (Ps. 19:8,9,10,11)


Cantor: Lord, you have the words of everlasting life.

ALL: LORD, YOU HAVE THE WORDS OF EVERLASTING LIFE.

1.   The law of the LORD is perfect,
       refreshing the soul;
     The decree of the LORD is trustworthy,
       giving wisdom to the simple. <R>

2.   The precepts of the LORD are right,
       rejoicing the heart;
     The command of the LORD is clear,
       enlightening the eye. <R>

3.   The fear of the LORD is pure,
       enduring forever;
     The ordinances of the LORD are true,
       all of them just. <R>

4.   They are more precious than gold,
       than a heap of the purest gold,
     Sweeter also than syrup
       or honey from the comb. <R>


PRAYER:

Priest:   Let us pray.

     Father,
     you increase your Church
     by continuing to call all people to salvation.
     Listen to our prayers
     and always watch over those you cleanse in baptism.
     We ask this through Christ our Lord.

ALL: AMEN.



SEVENTH READING: (Ez. 36:16-28)

Reader: A reading from the book of the prophet Ezekiel.

Thus the word of the LORD came to me: Son of man, when the house of
Israel lived in their land, they defiled it by their conduct and
deeds.  Therefor I poured out my fury upon them [because of the blood
which they poured out on the ground, and because they defiled it with
idols].  I scattered them among the nations, dispersing them over
foreign lands; according to their conduct and deeds I judged them.
But when they came among the nations [wherever they came], they
served to profane my holy name, because it was said of them: "These
are the people of the LORD, yet they had to leaver their land."  SO I
have relented because of my holy name which the house of Israel
profaned among the nations where they came.  Therefore say to the
souse of Israel: Thus says the LORD God: Not for your sakes do I act,
house of Israel, but for the sake of my holy name, which you profaned
among the nations to which you came.  I will prove the holiness of my
great name, profaned among the nations, in whose midst you profaned
it. Thus the nations shall know that I am the LORD, says the LORD
God, when in their sight I prove my holiness through you.  For I will
take you away from among the nations, gather you from all the foreign
lands, and bring you back to you own land.  I will prickly clean
water upon you to cleanse you from all your impurities, and from all
your idols I will cleanse you.  I will give you a new heart and place
a new spirit within, you, taking from your bodies your stony hearts
and giving you natural hearts.  I will put my spirit within you and
make you live by my statutes, careful to observe my decrees.  You
shall live in the land I gave your fathers; you shall be my people,
and I will be your God.


Reader:   This is the Word of the Lord.

ALL: THANKS BE TO GOD.



RESPONSORIAL PSALM: (Pss. 42:3.5, 43:3.4)


Cantor: Like a deer that longs for running streams, 
     my soul longs for you, my God.

ALL: LIKE A DEER THAT LONGS FOR RUNNING STREAMS,
     MY SOUL LONGS FOR YOU, MY GOD.

1.   Athirst is my soul for God, the living God.
       When shall I go and behold the face of God? <R>

2.   I went with the throng
       and led them in procession to the house of God,
     Amid loud cries of joy and thanksgiving,
       with the multitude keeping festival. <R>

3.   Send forth your light and your fidelity;
       they shall lead me on
     And bring me to your holy mountain,
       to your dwelling-place.

4.   Then I will go in to the altar of God,
       the God of my gladness and joy;
     Then will I give you thanks upon the harp,
       O God, my God! <R>



PRAYER:

Priest: Let us pray.
     
     God of unchanging power and light,
     look with mercy and favor on your entire Church.
     Bring lasting salvation to mankind,
     so that the world may see
     the fallen lifted up,
     the old made new,
     and all things brought to perfection,
     through him who is in their origin,
     our Lord Jesus Christ,
     who lives and reigns for ever and ever.

ALL: AMEN.



[After the last reading from the Old Testament with its responsory
and prayer, the altar candles are lighted, and the priest intones the
"Glory to God," which is taken up by all present.  The Church bells
are rung, according to local custom]



GLORY TO GOD:

     Glory to God in the highest,
       and peace to his people on earth,
     
     Lord God, heavenly King,
     almighty God and Father,
       we worship you, we give you thanks,
       we praise you for your glory.

     Lord Jesus Christ, only Son of the Father,
     Lord God, Lamb of God,
     you take away the sin of the world:
       have mercy on us;
     you are seated at the right hand of the Father:
       receive our prayer.

     For you alone are the Holy One,
     you alone are the Lord,
     you alone are the Most High,
       Jesus Christ, 
       with the Holy Spirit,
       in the glory of God the Father.

     Amen.


OPENING PRAYER:

Priest:   Let us pray.

     Lord God,
     you have brightened this night
     with the radiance of the risen Christ.
     Quicken the spirit of sonship in your Church:
     renew us in mind and body
     to give you whole-hearted service.
     Grand this through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son,
     who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit,
     one God, for ever and ever.

ALL: AMEN.



EPISTLE: (Rom. 6:3-11)


Reader: A reading from the letter of Paul to the Romans.

Are you not aware that we who were baptized into Christ Jesus were
baptized into his death?  Through baptism into his death we were
buried with him, so that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by
the glory of the Father, we too might live a new life.  If we have
been united with him through likeness to his death, so shall we be
through like resurrection.  This we know: our old self was crucified
with him so that the sinful body might be destroyed and we might be
slaves to sin no longer.  A man who is dead has been freed rom sin.
If we have died with Christ, we believe that we are also to live with
him.  We know that Christ, once raised from the dead, will never die
again: death has no more power over him.  His death was a death to
sin, once for all; his life is life for God.  In this same way, you
must consider yourselves dead to sin but alive for God in Christ
Jesus.

Reader: This is the Word of the Lord.

ALL: THANKS BE TO GOD.



GOSPEL: 


  Alleluia: (Ps 118:1-2,16,17,22-23)


Priest/Cantor: Alleluia. Alleluia. Alleluia.
ALL: ALLELUIA. ALLELUIA. ALLELUIA.


1.   Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good,
       for his mercy endures forever.
     Let the house of Israel say,
       "His mercy endures forever." <R>

2.   The right hand of the LORD has struck with power;
       the right hand of the LORD is exalted.
     I shall not die, but live,
       and declare the works of the LORD. <R>

3.   The stone which the builders rejected
       has become the cornerstone.
     By the LORD has this been done;
       It is wonderful in our eyes. <R>


GOSPEL READING: (Matthew 28:1-10)

Deacon/Priest: The Lord be with you.
ALL: AND ALSO WITH YOU.

          
Deacon/Priest: A reading from the holy gospel according to Matthew.
ALL: GLORY TO YOU, LORD.


  After the sabbath, as the first day of the week was dawning, Mary
Magdalene came with the other Mary to inspect the tomb.  Suddenly
there was a mighty earthquake, as the angel of the Lord descended
from heaven.  He came to the stone, rolled it back and sat on it.  In
appearance he resembled a flash of lightening while his garments were
as dazzling as snow.  The guards grew paralyzed with fear of him and
fell down like dead men.  Then the angel spoke, addressing the women:
"Do not be frightened.  I know you are looking for Jesus the
crucified, but he is not here.  He has been raised, exactly as he
promised.  Come and see the spot where he was laid.  Then go quickly
and tell his disciples: 'He has been raised from he dead and now goes
ahead of you to Galilee, where you will see him.'  That is the
message I have for you."

  They hurried away from the tomb half-overjoyed, half-fearful, and
ran to carry the good news to his disciples.  Suddenly, without
warning, Jesus stood before them and said, "Peace!" The women came up
and embraced his feet and did him homage.  At this Jesus said to
them, "Do not be afraid! Go and carry the news to my brothers that
they are to go to Galilee, where they will see me."


Deacon/Priest: This is the gospel of the Lord.

ALL: PRAISE TO YOU, LORD JESUS CHRIST.


[Homily follows]

---------------------------------------------------------------------
-



Newsgroups: talk.religion.misc
From: dzkriz@ocf.berkeley.edu (Dennis Kriz)
Subject: THE TRIDUUM - Holy Saturday - Easter Vigil Mass - Lit. of Initiation
Message-ID: <1q7q3s$3s@agate.berkeley.edu>
Date: 11 Apr 1993 00:52:12 GMT
Organization: U. C. Berkeley Open Computing Facility
Lines: 466


Part III - Celebration of the Sacraments of Initiation


[Following the homily the deacon or another minister calls the
candidates for baptism, along with their godparents, forth from the
assembly.  During the procession to the baptismal font (or after the
candidates and their godparents have taken their places) all join in
singing the Litany of the Saints].


Lord have mercy on us,        LORD HAVE MERCY ON US.
Christ have mercy on us,      CHRIST HAVE MERCY ON US.
Lord have mercy on us.        LORD HAVE MERCY ON US.


Holy Mary Mother of God. PRAY FOR US.
Holy Angels of God
Saint John the Baptist
Saint Joseph
Saints Peter and Paul
Saint Andrew
Saint John
Saint Mary Magdalene
Saint Stephen
Saint Ignatius
Saint Lawrence
Saint Perpetua and Saint Falicity
Saint Agnes
Saint Gregory
Saint Augustine
Saint Athanasius
Saint Basil
Saint Martin
Saint Benedict
Saint Francis and Saint Dominic
Saint Francis Xavier
Saint John Vianney
Saint Catherine
Saint Teresa 
Saint ...
All holy men and women.


Lord be merciful         LORD, SAVE YOUR PEOPLE.
From all evil
From every sin
From everlasting death
By your coming as man
By your death and rising to new life
By your give of the Holy Spirit


Be merciful to us sinners.    LORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER.
Give new life to these chosen 
    ones by grace of baptism.
Jesus, Son of the living God.


Christ, hear us.         LORD, JESUS, hear our prayer.
Christ, hear us.         LORD, JESUS, hear our prayer.



[The celebrant then addresses the assembly in the following or
similar words, asking them to join in prayer for the candidates]


Celebrant: 

Dear friends, let us pray to almighty God for our brothers and
sisters, ________, who are asking for baptism.  He has called them
and brought them to this moment; may he grant them light and strength
to follow Christ with resolute hearts and to profess the faith of the
Church.  May he give them the new life of the Holy Spirit, whom we
are about to call down on this water.


BLESSING THE WATER

[Facing the font (or vessel) containing the water, the celebrant then
blesses the water which will be used for baptism]


Celebrant:

Father,
you give us grace through sacramental signs,
which tell us of the wonders of your unseen power.

In baptism we use your gift of water,
which you have made a rich symbol of the grace 
you give us in this sacrament.

At the very dawn of creation
your Spirit breathed on the waters,.
making them the wellspring of all holiness.

The waters of the great flood
you made a sign of the waters of baptism
that make an end of sin
and a new beginning of goodness.

Through the waters of the Red Sea
you led Israel out of slavery
to be an image of God's holy people,
set free from sin by baptism.

In the waters of the Jordan
your Son was baptized by John
and anointed with the Spirit.

Your Son willed that water and blood should flow from his side as he
hung upon the cross.

After his resurrection he told his disciples:
"Go out and teach all nations,
baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son,
and of the Holy Spirit."

Father,
look now with love upon your Church
and unseal for it the fountain of baptism.

By the power of the Holy Spirit
give to this water the grace of your Son,
so that in the sacrament of baptism
all those whom you have created in your likeness
may be cleansed from sin
and rise to a new birth of innocence
by the water and the Holy Spirit.


[before continuing, the celebrant pauses and touches the water with
his right hand, or he may instead lower the Easter candle into the
water once or three times, then hold it there for the remainder of
the blessing]


Celebrant:

We ask you, Father, with your Son
to sand the Holy Spirit upon the waters of this font.
May all who are buried with Christ win the death of baptism rise also
with him to newness of life.

We ask this through Christ our Lord.

All: AMEN.


[If the Easter candle has been held in the water during the blessing,
the celebrant then raises it and the people sing the following or
another suitable acclamation]:

ALL: SPRINGS OF WATER, BLESS THE LORD.  GIVE HIM GLORY AND PRAISE
FOREVER.



RENUNCIATION OF SIN AND PROFESSION OF FAITH

[Renunciation of the Evil One]

Celebrant:     Do you reject Satan, 
Candidates:    I DO.          

Celebrant:     and all his works,
Candidates:    I DO.

Celebrant:     and all his empty promises?
Candidates:    I DO.


[Then the celebrant, informed again of each candidate's name by the
godparents, asks the candidate (or group as a whole, if it is large)
to progress his or her faith].


Celebrant:     ____, do you believe in God, the Father almighty,
          creator or heaven and earth?

CANDIDATES:    I DO.


Celebrant:     Do you believe in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our
          Lord, who was born of the Virgin mary,
          was crucified, died, and was buried,
          rose from the dead,
          and is now seated at the right hand of the Father?

CANDIDATES:    I DO.


Celebrant:     Do you believe in the Holy Spirit,
          the holy catholic Church, the communion of saints,
          the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body,
          and the life everlasting?

CANDIDATES:    I DO.



BAPTISM
-------

[Immediately after his or her profession of faith, the celebrant
baptizes each candidate either by a threefold immersion or pouring
water using these words]:

Celebrant:     ______, I baptize you in the name of the Father,  and
of the Son,
          and of the Holy Spirit.

[After each baptism, the assembly may sing the following or another
suitable acclamation. (IF there are great numbers to be baptized, the
baptisms may be accompanies by singing, readings from Scripture or
silent prayer)]:

ALL:      WATER OF LIFE, CLEANSE AND REFRESH US; RAISE US TO LIFE IN
CHRIST    JESUS. 



ANOINTING AFTER BAPTISM
-----------------------

[IF the confirmation of those baptized is separated from their
baptism, the celebrant anoints them immediately using the following
words]:

Celebrant:     The God of power and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ
          has freed you from sin
          and brought you to new life
          through water and the Holy Spirit.

          He now anoints you with the chrism of salvation.
          so that, united with his people,
          you may remain for ever a member of Christ
          who is Priest, Prophet and King.

NEWLY BAPTIZED:     AMEN.



CLOTHING WITH A BAPTISMAL GARMENT
---------------------------------

[The newly baptized are now clothed with baptismal garments (this
rite is optional and may be omitted).  The celebrant says the
following formulary, and at the words "Receive this baptismal
garment" the godparents place the garment on the newly baptized.

Celebrant:     ________, you have become a new creation
          and have clothed yourself(selves) in Christ.
          Receive this baptismal garment
          and bring it unstained to the judgement seat
            of our Lord Jesus Christ,
          so that you may have everlasting life.

NEWLY BAPTIZED: AMEN.



PRESENTATION OF A LIGHTED CANDLE
--------------------------------

[A godparent of each of the newly baptized goes to the celebrant,
lights a candle from the Easter candle, then presents it to the newly
baptized.  Then the celebrant says to the newly baptized]:
Celebrant:     You have been enlightened by Christ.
          Walk always as children of the light
          and keep the flame of faith alive in your hearts.
          When the Lord comes, may you go out to meet him
          with all the saints in the heavenly kingdom.

NEWLY BAPTIZED: AMEN.



RENEWAL OF BAPTISMAL PROMISES
-----------------------------

[After the celebration of baptism the celebrant invites all those
present, including the candidates for reception into full communion,
to renew their baptismal promises.  During the renewal, all stand and
hold lighted candles].


Celebrant:     Dear Friends,
          through the paschal mystery
          we have been buried with Christ in baptism,
          so that we may rise with him to newness of life.
          Now that we have completed our Lenten observance, 
          let us renew the promises we made in baptism,
          when we rejected Satan and his works
          and promised to serve God faithfully in his holy
          Catholic Church.

Celebrant:     Do your reject Satan?
ALL:      I DO.

Celebrant:     And all his works?
ALL:      I DO.

Celebrant:     And all his empty promises?
ALL:      I DO.



[The celebrant then continues with the profession of faith]


Celebrant:     Do you believe in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our  
Lord,
          who was born of the Virgin Mary,
          was crucified, died, and was buried,
          rose from the dead,
          and is seated at the right hand of the Father?

ALL:      I DO.

Celebrant:     Do you believe in the Holy Spirit,
          the holy catholic Church, the communion of saints,
          the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and
          the life everlasting?

ALL:      I DO.


[The celebrant then concludes with the following prayer]:


Celebrant:     God, the all-powerful Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
          has given us a new birth by water and the Holy Spirit
          and forgiven all our sins.
          may he also keep us faithful to our Lord Jesus Christ
          for ever and ever.

ALL:      AMEN.



CELEBRATION OF RECEPTION
------------------------

[The celebrant invites candidates for reception, along with their
sponsors, to come into the sanctuary and before the community to make
a profession of faith].


Celebrant:     _______ of your own free will you have asked to be
          received into the full communion of the Catholic
          Church.  You have made your decision after careful
          thought under the guidance of the Holy Spirit.  I
          invite you to come forward with your sponsors and in
          the presence of this community to profess the Catholic
          faith.  In this faith you will be one with us for the
          first time at the eucharistic table of the Lord Jesus
          the sign of the Church's unity.

[When the candidates and their sponsors have taken their places, the
celebrant, who asks the candidates to make the following profession
of faith]:

CANDIDATES:    I BELIEVE AND PROFESS ALL THAT THE HOLY CATHOLIC
               CHURCH BELIEVES, TEACHES, AND PROCLAIMS TO BE REVEALED
               BY GOD.

[Then the candidates with their sponsors go individually to the
celebrant, who ways to each candidate (laying his right hand on the
head of any candidate who is not to receive confirmation]:

Celebrant:     _______, the Lord receives you into the Catholic     
Church.
          His loving kindness has led you here,
          so that in the unity of the Holy Spirit
          you may have full communion with us
          in the faith that you have professed in the 
              presence of his family.


[Before the celebration of confirmation begins, the assembly may sing
a suitable song].



CELEBRATION OF CONFIRMATION
---------------------------

[The newly baptized with their godparents and, if they have not
received the sacrament of confirmation, the newly received with their
sponsors, now stand before the celebrant.  He addresses them in these
or similar words]:


Celebrant:

My dear candidates for confirmation, by your baptism you have been
born again in Christ and you have become members of Christ and of his
priestly people.  Now you are to share in the outpouring of the Holy
Spirit among us, the Spirit sent by the Lord upon his apostles at
Pentecost and given by them and their successors to the baptized.

The promised strength of the Holy Spirit, which you are to receive,
will make you more like Christ and help you to be witnesses to his
suffering, death, and resurrection.  It will strengthen you to be
active members of the Church and to build up the Body of Christ in
faith and love.

[the celebrant then address the rest of the assembly]

Celebrant:     

My dear friends, let us pray to God our Father, that he will pour out
the Holy Spirit on these candidates for confirmation to strengthen
them with his gifts and anoint them to be more like Christ, the Son
of God.

[All pray briefly in silence]

[The celebrant holds his hands outstretched over the entire group of
those to be confirmed and says the following prayer]:


Celebrant:     All-powerful God, Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, by
          water and the Holy Spirit
          you freed your sons and daughters from sin
          and gave them new life.

          Send your Holy Spirit upon them
          to be helpers and guide.
          Give them the spirit of wisdom and understanding, 
          the spirit of right judgement and courage,
          the spirit of knowledge and reverence.
          Fill them with the spirit or wonder and awe in 
              your presence.

          We ask this through Christ our Lord.
ALL: AMEN.

[Each candidate, with godparents or sponsors, goes to the celebrant
(or, if circumstances require, the celebrant may go to the
candidates). Either or both godparents and sponsors place the right
hand on the shoulder of the candidate; a godparent or a sponsor gives
the candidate;s name to the minister of the sacrament.  The minister
anoints each candidate using these words:

Minister:  _________, be sealed with the Gift of the Holy Spirit.
NEWLY CONFIRMED: AMEN.

Minister:  Peace be with you.
NEWLY CONFIRMED: AND ALSO WITH YOU.

[During the conferral of the sacrament an appropriate song may be
sung.  After all have received the sacrament, the newly confirmed as
well as the godparents and sponsors are led to their places in the
assembly] 


[The rite continues with the liturgy of the Eucharist.  Since the
profession of faith is not said, the general intercessions begin
immediately] 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

