                                  TRINITY

GEN 1:26  And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: 
and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of 
the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every 
creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

3:22  And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to 
know good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of 
the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever:

ISA 6:3  And one cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, is the 
LORD of hosts: the whole earth is full of his glory.

8  Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, and who 
will go for us? Then said I, Here am I; send me.

42:1  Behold my servant, whom I uphold; mine elect, in whom my soul 
delighteth; I have put my spirit upon him: he shall bring forth judgment to 
the Gentiles.

48:16  Come ye near unto me, hear ye this; I have not spoken in secret from 
the beginning; from the time that it was, there am I: and now the Lord GOD, 
and his Spirit, hath sent me.

61:1  The Spirit of the Lord GOD is upon me; because the LORD hath anointed 
me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to bind up the 
brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the 
prison to them that are bound;

2  To proclaim the acceptable year of the LORD, and the day of vengeance of 
our God; to comfort all that mourn;

3  To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for 
ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of 
heaviness; that they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting 
of the LORD, that he might be glorified.

63:9  In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his 
presence saved them: in his love and in his pity he redeemed them; and he 
bare them, and carried them all the days of old.

MAT 1:18  Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When as his 
mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was 
found with child of the Holy Ghost.

20  But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the LORD 
appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not 
to take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of 
the Holy Ghost.

3:11  I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance. but he that cometh 
after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he shall 
baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire:

12:28  But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of 
God is come unto you.

28:19  Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name 
of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:

LUK 1:35  And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall 
come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee: 
therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called 
the Son of God.

3:22  And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him, 
and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved Son; in thee 
I am well pleased.

4:1  And Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost returned from Jordan, and was 
led by the Spirit into the wilderness,

14  And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee: and there 
went out a fame of him through all the region round about.

JOH 1:32  And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from 
heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him.

33  And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same 
said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining 
on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost.

3:34  For he whom God hath sent speaketh the words of God: for God giveth 
not the Spirit by measure unto him.

35  The Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into his hand.

7:39  (But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe on him 
should receive: for the Holy Ghost was not yet given; because that Jesus 
was not yet glorified.)

14:16  And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, 
that he may abide with you for ever;

17  Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it 
seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with 
you, and shall be in you.

26  But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send 
in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your 
remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.

15:26  But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the 
Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he 
shall testify of me:

16:7  Nevertheless I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I go 
away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I 
depart, I will send him unto you.

13  Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into 
all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, 
that shall he speak: and he will shew you things to come.

14  He shall glorify me: for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it 
unto you.

15  All things that the Father hath are mine: therefore said I, that he 
shall take of mine, and shall shew it unto you.

20:22  And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and saith unto them, 
Receive ye the Holy Ghost:

ACT 1:2  Until the day in which he was taken up, after that he through the 
Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen:

3  To whom also he shewed himself alive after his passion by many 
infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the 
things pertaining to the kingdom of God:

4  And, being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should 
not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which, 
saith he, ye have heard of me.

5  For John truly baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the 
Holy Ghost not many days hence.

2:33  Therefore being by the right hand of God exalted, and having received 
of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, he hath shed forth this, which 
ye now see and hear.

10:36  The word which God sent unto the children of Israel, preaching peace 
by Jesus Christ: (he is Lord of all:)

37  That word, I say, ye know, which was published throughout all Judaea, 
and began from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached;

38  How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power: 
who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the 
devil; for God was with him.

ROM 1:3  Concerning his Son Jesus Christ our Lord, which was made of the 
seed of David according to the flesh;

4  And declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of 
holiness, by the resurrection from the dead:

8:9  But ye are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if so be that the 
Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, 
he is none of his.

10  And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin; but the 
Spirit is life because of righteousness.

11  But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in 
you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal 
bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you.

26  Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities: for we know not what 
we should pray for as we ought: but the Spirit itself maketh intercession 
for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.

27  And he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of the 
Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints according to the will 
of God.

1CO 2:10  But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit: for the Spirit 
searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God.

11  For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which 
is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God.

6:19  What? know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost 
which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own?

8:6  But to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things, 
and we in him; and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by 
him.

12:3  Wherefore I give you to understand, that no man speaking by the 
Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man can say that Jesus is 
the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost.

4  Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit.

5  And there are differences of administrations, but the same Lord.

6  And there are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which 
worketh all in all.

2CO 1:21  Now he which stablisheth us with you in Christ, and hath anointed 
us, is God;

3:17  Now the Lord is that Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord is, 
there is liberty.

13:14  The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the 
communion of the Holy Ghost, be with you all. Amen.

GAL 4:4  But when the fulness of the time was come, God sent forth his Son, 
made of a woman, made under the law,

6  And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son into 
your hearts, crying, Abba, Father.

PHI 1:19  For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your 
prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,

COL 2:2  That their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love, 
and unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the 
acknowledgement of the mystery of God, and of the Father, and of Christ;

2TH 2:13  But we are bound to give thanks alway to God for you, brethren 
beloved of the Lord, because God hath from the beginning chosen you to 
salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth:

14  Whereunto he called you by our gospel, to the obtaining of the glory of 
our Lord Jesus Christ.

16  Now our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God, even our Father, which hath 
loved us, and hath given us everlasting consolation and good hope through 
grace,

1TI 3:16  And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness: God 
was manifest in the flesh, justified in the Spirit, seen of angels, 
preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up into 
glory.

TIT 3:4  But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man 
appeared,

5  Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his 
mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy 
Ghost;

6  Which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour;

HEB 9:14  How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal 
Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead 
works to serve the living God?

1PE 1:2  Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through 
sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of 
Jesus Christ: Grace unto you, and peace, be multiplied.

3:18  For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, 
that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but 
quickened by the Spirit:

1JO 5:6  This is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ; not by 
water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit that beareth 
witness, because the Spirit is truth.

REV 4:8  And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him; and they 
were full of eyes within: and they rest not day and night, saying, Holy, 
holy, holy, LORD God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come.

BIBLE BULLETIN BOARD
BOX 130
SHREVEPORT, LA 71110
MODEM (318)-949-1456
300/1200/2400/9600 BAUD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                