

From:    Lucy Simmons 
To:      All                                      Msg #15, 28/10/90 22:16cst
Subject: Xianity as a cult 


               A CULT-HUNTER LOOKS AT CHRISTIANITY 
 
1- When you enter some Catholic churches, you are confronted by a graphic 
   representation of Jesus, nailed to a cross, bleeding, suffering, and then 
   you are told that He went to this death of His own free will!  
   You read about Saints that whipped themselves; that wore hair shirts to 
   abuse their bodies. You even see, in this modern age, the Penitentes 
   of Mexico and New Mexico who continue this practice, even going so far as 
   to crucify themselves, men and women! 
   People who walk to a "holy" shrine on their knees, doing possible
permanent 
   damage to themselves, are lauded for having performed a "holy" act! 
   Children are beaten, starved, tortured and otherwise seriously harmed by 
   members of this cult following the Biblical admonition "Speare the rod and

   spoil the child." There are also innumerable cases of the denial of blood 
   transfusions, denial of public education, and denial of * any * modern 
   medical treatment, all in the name of this cult's beliefs. 
 
   Does Christianity preach a form of sado-masochism? If it does, it is a 
   dangerous cult indeed! 
 
2- This ritual of "Holy Communion" or the "Lord's Supper" has some overtones 
   that bother any right-thinking person. After all, the worshippers are told

   that they are eating the "Body and Blood of our Saviour, Jesus Christ!" 
 
   Can it be very far from * ritual * cannibalism to * real * cannibalism? 
   This cult seems more and more dangerous! 
 
3- The pre-occupation of some sects of Christianity with "demons" and
"devils" 
   and "evil spirits" that, in their minds, seem to inhabit the whole  
   Universe, ready at the slightest opportunity to "possess" the bodies and  
   minds of humans, reeks of Diabolism! The more extreme sects even seem to 
   believe that this "Devil" is some sort of anti-God that has * all * power 
   over the world. 
 
   Can it be a very great step from being so preoccupied with devils to the 
   actual worship of them? One should worry about this! 
                                                                             

         A ) r e a 

---
 * Origin: <Deus ex Machina-BBS Free Atenveldt! 602-439-8070>  (Opus
1:114/29)


From:    Lucy Simmons 
To:      All                                      Msg #16, 28/10/90 22:17cst
Subject: Xianity as a cult 2


 
4- One sect of Christianity, the Roman Catholic Church, actually LOCKS UP 
   young girls (and older women) and forbids them contact with the world, 
   forbids them marriage, and tells them it is a "sin" to think of men in 
   a sexual manner, and that they will "burn in 'hell' " if they do so. Such 
   single-sex, enforced groupings of people (similar to secular prisons) are 
   always hotbeds of deviant behaviour. 
   The same sect forbids marriage to its priests, and thereby perhaps  
   encourages the many, many DOCUMENTED cases of its priests molesting young 
   boys. 
   One of its major past leaders (called "Apostles"), Saul of Tarsus, aka  
   "Saint Paul," was known for his hatred of women, and he seems to be the 
   major theoretician of many of the "Fundamentalist" sects of the cult. 
 
   Can it be that Christianity actually * encourages * homosexuality, while 
   preaching the opposite? 
 
5- One sect, the "Jehovah's Witnesses," refuses allegiance to their country! 
   They will not salute the flag, nor will they serve in the Armed Forces! 
   The "Social Gospel," a take-from-the-rich propaganda pitch, is preached
all 
   over Third World nations, subverting their governments! 
 
   Can it be that Christianity encourages the "One World" viewpoint of
certain 
   radical political groups? 
 
6- The sexual behaviour of its leaders has been well documented, from "Popes"

   (the leader of the Roman Catholic sect) to Aimee Semple Macpherson, to 
   Jimmy Swaggert. One wonders about such leaders being placed in positions 
   of command over our young people. 
 
   How many innocents have been defiled by such persons? One wonders! 
 
7- In the Middle Ages, priests actually said "Masses" to impose death spells 
   on humans. Is such ritual being practiced today? We will probably never 
   know, because secrecy in such groups would be assumed as * very * tight. 
 
   As so many law-enforcement officers seem to be Christian, and many of 
   the European governments are enthralled by this cult, we will probably 
   * never * be able to find out the truth of this. 

---
 * Origin: <Deus ex Machina-BBS Free Atenveldt! 602-439-8070>  (Opus
1:114/29)


From:    Lucy Simmons 
To:      All                                      Msg #17, 28/10/90 22:18cst
Subject: Xianity as a cult 3 of 3


 
8- At every Christian service, donations from the membership is encouraged, 
   and, as most such donations are done publically, "peer-pressure" to give 
   large amounts of money is very high, and a feeling of guilt over * not * 
   contributing could lead to psychotic episodes! 
   The cult's attitude towards sexual feelings, that even * looking * at 
   a person with even the tiniest feeling of "lust" is a "sin," is so rigid 
   as to exclude at least 99 percent of the World's population from "Heaven" 
   and thereby lead to irreconcilable guilt feelings on the part of the  
   "sinners!" 
 
   Could it be that many of the modern world's psychiatric problems can be 
   traced to the beliefs of this cult? 
 
9- The intolerant behaviour of Christianity is also well-documented in  
   history, with its pogroms of Jews, burning of witches, Crusades against 
   Islam, culture destruction and outright genocide in the Pacific islands  
   and Central and South America, and hatred of anything that is not  
   "Christian." This has even extended to disruption of non-Christian  
   religious services, and violent behaviour that is touted as simple "civil 
   disobedience." 
 
   Can such past behaviour repeat itself? History shows it does. 
 
10- Proselytization, or the "conversion" of new members to the cult, is 
    carried on in any number of ways, both with subtle blandishments and 
    by outright fear and threats. To watch and listen to some
street-preachers 
    is an education in the use of fear-inducing technique, and also of 
    individual and mass hysteria similar to that induced by Adolf Hitler and 
    Joseph Goebells! 
 
    Why do these preachers do their best to induce such mass hysteria? One 
    could ask the same question about Hitler and Goebells, and maybe get the 
    same answer!  
 
                    --------------------- 
 If your child, or a member of your family, is involved with this 
 cult, * please * seek help NOW! 
                    --------------------- 
 
 The author wishes to thank the publishers of "File 18," and all 
 the other cult-hunters and watchers out there, for their good and 
 constant demonstrations of the techniques used in this article. 
 
        --------------------- end ----------------------- 
         
--- QM v1.23 
 * Origin: Cults and Kinky Sects Inc., Wichita, Kansas (9:3981) 
