                         IS CHRISTMAS CHRISTIAN?

by Hank Hanegraaff
Christian Research Institute


<long intro deleted>

Each year around this time, letters flood in to CRI offices containing
various questions about Christmas that range in topic from the practice of
exchanging gifts to the possible connection between Christmas and the pagan
holidays of Rome.  So lets take a few moments to consider some of the more
commonly asked questions about Christmas.

FIRST, ARE CHRISTMAS TREES A FROM OF IDOLATRY?  Interestingly, this
question arises out of a pronouncement made by the prophet Jeremiah: "This
is what the LORD says . . . the customs of the peoples are worthless; they
cut a tree out of the forest, and a craftsman shapes it with his chisel. 
They adorn it with silver and gold; they fasten it with hammer and nails so
that it will not totter" (Jer. 102-4)

While at first blush this may seem to be refereeing to our custom of
decorating Christmas trees, a closer examination of Jeremiah 10 reveals
that God is in reality condemning the creation of permanent wooden idols
carved from the trees of the forest.  In the very next verse (vs. 5) God
ridicules these idols because they cannot walk or talk.

Historically the practice of decorating Christmas trees originated in
Germany some two thousand years after Jeremiah made his pronouncement.  It
was the result of combining two distinctly different Christian symbols.

The first was a "Paradise tree."  It was decorated with apples to symbolize
the tree of life in the Garden of Eden.  The second was a triangular shelf
that contained Christmas figurines and was adorned by the star representing
the one followed by the Magi.  By the 16th century, these two Christian
symbols had been merged into the modern-day Christmas tree.

Not only are Christmas trees spiritually symbolic, but they represent a
wonderful witnessing opportunity as well.  In fact, the next time a
nonbelieving neighbor brings home a Christmas tree, you might want to ask
him or her if they know where the practice of decorating Christmas trees
originated.

Who knows!  The Holy Spirit may well allow you to enjoy one of the greatest
Christmas gifts of all -- the gift of seeing someone you care about receive
everlasting life.
ANOTHER COMMON QUESTION INVOLVES SANTA CLAUS.  IS SANTA A HOPELESSLY PAGAN
CONCOCTION, OR CAN SANTA BE SAVED?

What few people seem to be aware of is that Santa is Christian rather than
pagan in origin.  As a matter of fact, Santa Claus is an Anglicized form of
the Dutch name, Sinter Klaas.  Sinter Klaas in turn represents a Christian
bishop of the 4th century named "Saint Nicholas."

According to tradition, Saint Nick was not only kind and generous towards
children but he apparently attended the Council of Nicea in AD 325, where
he supported the biblical doctrine of the Trinity.

While it is likely true Saint Nick gave toys to tots, its obviously pure
mythology that he presently lives at the North Pole in a toy factory, knows
if we've been bad or good, and flies around in a sled pulled by reindeer.

In truth, Santa is not essential to Christmas -- but he does represent an
excellent opportunity for sharing Christ with your kids.  Why not ask them
this Christmas if they know who Santa really was.  Perhaps not only Santa
can be saved but so will one or more of your loved ones.

STILL ANOTHER COMMON QUESTION CRI RECEIVES AROUND CHRISTMAS TIME INVOLVES
THE PRACTICE OF GIVING GIFTS.

Jehovah's Witnesses in particular are quick to assert that this practice
not only leads to commercialism, but can be tied to the pagan practice of
astrology as well.  As they put it, the word "Magi" in the original Greek
refers to "astrologers."

History reveals, however, that the Magi were not singularly stargazers but
were schooled in the arts and sciences of their day as well.  Thus, the
translation "wise men" makes a great deal more sense than the
transliteration, "astrologers."

It is also important to note what Scripture clearly says about the Magi. 
Namely, the "wise men" were LED BY GOD.  Both the star that led them to
Christ (Matt. 2:9) and the dream through which they outwitted Herod (vs.
12) were used by God to guide and direct them.

The Jehovah's Witnesses are quick to point out that the wise men gave gifts
to Christ, not to one another.  But that misses the point entirely. 
Obviously our risen, reigning Redeemer doesn't need a thing.  However, when
we give to one another, Christ considers that as good as giving "unto Him"
(Matt. 25:37-40).

Perhaps your ability to sensitively and effectively dispel the Watchtower's
mythology with regard to gift-giving will open a door for you to discuss
the deity of Christ with them as well.  And perhaps as a result of your
discussion, the Jehovah's Witness may receive the gift of salvation in
Jesus Christ.  Jehovah's Witnesses can be reached, you know, and the Holy
Spirit can use you as a part of the process.
