How to make a really good bong by -Castro (ding) of the FiSH GaNg
After finding the smoothness of a good bong about a year ago me and
several of my colleagues have come upon a few good methods of making
them. First Off if you dont know what a bong is go away. Or i could
just tell you....not to suttley though (Its to smoke pot out of).
There are several (hundred?) methods. here are a *few*.

Method A.
To Make This Bong You Need:
1. A Glass Jar (The Things Your Mom Uses to bottle fruit)(With A Lid)
2. Water Weenee (whatever you call it..surgical tubing i guess)
3. Something to use as a bowl such as a big peice of wood looking
thing with a small bowl shaped thing at the top to put the buds in.
4. something to put in it. You *can* use water but i strongely suggest
beer.
Okay First off we need to Clean out the glass jar (dont want nothing
harmfull in our good ol' bong now do we?). Now You need to make a hole
in the lid about the size of the thing your gonna use for a bowl.
Now we take the the lid and make another hole in it for the tubing.
this is what youll be sucking on to get the smoke out of it. now put
the bowl in the lid and hot glue gun it in and make sure its gonna
be air tight or else this wont work very good. make sure the bowl
thing goes down almost to the bottom of the jar. now you wanna make a
hole for the tubing (did i say that all ready?) and hot glue that
in as well. okay now fill the thing up with beer or whatever make a
trip to your friendly neighborhood drug dealer and your set.

Method B.
What Youll Be needen to make this one:
1. PVC piping. about 7 inches tall and about 3 inches wide would ya say?
oh yeah it helps to have an end peice to it too.
2. another thing to use as a bowl. Ive used plastic tubing before and
wood parts (looks kind of like a pipe?).
This Method is somewhat easier to make then the above and its smaller
as well. First off cut a hole in the pipe about 1 or 1/2 inch above
the bottom of it. make it a diagonal cut so the bowl il (el?) fit good.
Now insert the bowl going almost straight up but now quiet (?). just
enough (youll see). now you kind of need to glue it in and make it
air tight. now all you have to do is fill it up and put some
budz(s?) in. now light the ol' herb up and ...um...do whatever comes
to mind.

Method A.
What You might be needen:
1. A Baby Bottle (any kind should do)
2. some more water weeny. (unless you like them plastic nipples).
3. another thing to use as a bowl and neck thing. tube or one of
those things youll find lurking in your room somewhere that you
dont know where the hell it came from but it sure makes you say
"this sure would work as a bowl for a bong".
Okay First off cut that damn plastic nipple thing off the baby
bottle. not to much but enough. you be the judge. then whilst
your there tape or glue the weeny to the the end of the thing
you just cut off as to make it easy to pass around. now you
need to make a hole in the baby bottle about oh id say 1 inch up
from the bottom of it about (you guessed it) the size of the
thing your gonna be using as a bowl. now glue the bowl in and
make sure you get it pretty good as baby bottles are a pain in
the ass sometimes (you perv). now unless i forgot something you
should be able to fill it up with something (whiskey would be fun)
and go toke till you may toke no more.

There you go. you now are enlightened with the art of bong making.
share your knowledge so that others might know as well (hehehehe).
oh ...one more thing you might want to get is a lighter. dont
use matches as they are gross and will kill you on the first hit.
try experimenting with what you put in your bong as different things
do different things. tropical fruits and whiskey are always fun for me.
buh bye.                                            -Castro
