disclaimer: dont use this file we are not responsible for you if
you do




                             
                               Another F.I.S.H.         
                                    FILE                
                                       By               
                                  Ezra & Punk Rock Girl 
                             
                                     The Sect     916-244-3569



                          How to clear out a gay bar!

     Every area has a gay bar and is hated by most of the
citizens. This file is gonna show you how to get it cleared out
and/or kill all the people in it!

Method 1:
   Go up to the door and stick just your head in. Shout as loud
as you can " The Skinheads are coming and they have baseball
bats!! Look out!! RUN!!"

Method 2 ( kill them all ) :
  Get a big coffee can and punch holes all over it with a nail.
Now get a plastic jar and fill it with strong pool acid. A piece
of cloth around the inside of the can to prevent cyanide from
spilling out the holes. Now pour cyanide into the coffee can.
Just enought to cover the bottom. Now place the bottle of acid
into the bed of cyanide at the bottom of the jar. The bottle
should allow about 1 inch around on all sides.
  Fill the rest of the coffee can with cyanide. gather the cloth
up around the top of the contents of the can and tie it ightly
with string or wire. Tape the lid on with duct tape.
  Now get a really long nail that will fit into one of the holes
you put in the coffee can. hammer it into a small block of wood. 

now to use it:  open the door of the gay bar. Place the nail into
one of the holes and SLAM it into the jar in the middle
puncturing it well! the acid spills out all over the cyanide
making cyanide gas! THROW the coffee can fast into the bar and
DONT INHALE THE FUMES!!!! thats it... bye
  
                      For The Latest in F.I.S.H.  Files call
 
                   The Sect BBS (916) 244-3569                   
                            SysOp 
                    Spit Boy / Punk Rock Girl

     
