disclaimer: We the FISH are not responsible for you if you make                      
this junk without wearing a radiation proof suit. If you die its not                      
our fault. This file is for information only!













                      
                        Another   F.I.S.H.   
                             FILE                               
                                   by                           
                             Punk Rock Girl                     
                       


       Well it is time once again for me to say hi to all the
fans of F.I.S.H.      If you want to call the fish support bbs
and get the fish files as they roll out of my word processor then
call The Village BBS  at (916) 244-3569. You have full access to
everything the first time you call and we sure could use any
files you have. Our area is not really good for anarchy boards.

  Anyway! this file should be called RICIN.txt  if it isn't yell
at the SysOp of the BBS you stole it from.


********  RICIN  the deadliest poison known to man **********

 To make it:

1.  Go to a store that sells castor beans ( like for castor oil )
2.  put about 2 ounces of water into a GLASS jar and add some LYE 
    from the grocery store to it ( about a teaspoon full )
3.  wait for the lye/water mixture to cool
4.  plop one or 2 ounces of the beans into the liquid
5.  soak them for one hour
6.  pour out the liquid and DON'T TOUCH IT! it is lye and will    
     burn your skin off!
7.  get the beans and rinse them
8.  take the outside off the beans very carefully using your      
    finger nail or something
9.  put the insides of the beans into a blender ( i use a coffee  
    grinder ) with four ounces of acetone for every one of the    
    beans
10. blend until it looks like milk
11. put them in a glass jar for three days with the lid closed    
    tightly
12. at the end of three days shake it up really good and pour it  
    into a coffee filter
13. when the dripping stops pick up the filter and squeeze the    
    acetone out of it
14. spread the filter out on a pan covered with newspaper and let 
    it dry
15. when it is dry!  if you can compress it and it stays in that  
    shape ( i.e. squeeze it in your hand ) then put it back into  
    a DIFFERENT CLEAN jar with 4 more ounces of acetone for 1 day 
              if you did:  repeat steps 12-24
   
 The powder you have made is tasteless and odorless. It can be
sprinkled into soup or placed in a drink or inhaled. It takes
about 3-4 days to act and when it does the guy will be dead
within a week. The death is slow and painful as this poison
attacks the blood and internal organs starting with the digestive
tract.   The cure is rare and expensive and the poison is almost
impossible to detect.
                               Punk Rock Girl

                 call The Village 916-244-3569 for all            
                           fish files! 















