        Urantia Book Paper 7 Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Paper 7 Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE Original Son is ever concerned with the execution of the spiritual aspects
of the Father's eternal purpose as it progressively unfolds in the phenomena of
the evolving universes with their manifold groups of living beings. We do not
fully comprehend this eternal plan, but the Paradise Son undoubtedly does.

The Son is like the Father in that he seeks to bestow everything possible of
himself upon his co-ordinate Sons and upon their subordinate Sons. And the Son
shares the Father's self-distributive nature in the unstinted bestowal of
himself upon the Infinite Spirit, their conjoint executive.

As the upholder of spirit realities, the Second Source and Center is the
eternal counterpoise of the Isle of Paradise, which so magnificently upholds
all things material. Thus is the First Source and Center forever revealed in
the material beauty of the exquisite patterns of the central Isle and in the
spiritual values of the supernal personality of the Eternal Son.

The Eternal Son is the actual upholder of the vast creation of spirit realities
and spiritual beings. The spirit world is the habit, the personal conduct, of
the Son, and the impersonal realities of spirit nature are always responsive to
the will and purpose of the perfect personality of the Absolute Son.

The Son is not, however, personally responsible for the conduct of all spirit
personalities. The will of the personal creature is relatively free and hence
determines the actions of such volitional beings. Therefore the freewill spirit
world is not always truly representative of the character of the Eternal Son,
even as nature on Urantia is not truly revelatory of the perfection and
immutability of Paradise and Deity. But no matter what may characterize the
freewill action of man or angel, the Son's eternal grasp of the universal
gravity control of all spirit realities continues as absolute.

1. THE SPIRIT-GRAVITY CIRCUIT

Everything taught concerning the immanence of God, his omnipresence,
omnipotence, and omniscience, is equally true of the Son in the spiritual
domains. The pure and universal spirit gravity of all creation, this
exclusively spiritual circuit, leads directly back to the person of the Second
Source and Center on Paradise. He presides over the control and operation of
that ever-present and unerring spiritual grasp of all true spirit values. Thus
does the Eternal Son exercise absolute spiritual sovereignty. He literally
holds all spirit realities and all spiritualized values, as it were, in the
hollow of his hand. The control of universal spiritual gravity is universal
spiritual sovereignty.

                                top of page - 82

This gravity control of spiritual things operates independently of time and
space; therefore is spirit energy undiminished in transmission. Spirit gravity
never suffers time delays, nor does it undergo space diminution. It does not
decrease in accordance with the square of the distance of its transmission; the
circuits of pure spirit power are not retarded by the mass of the material
creation. And this transcendence of time and space by pure spirit energies is
inherent in the absoluteness of the Son; it is not due to the interposition of
the antigravity forces of the Third Source and Center.

Spirit realities respond to the drawing power of the center of spiritual
gravity in accordance with their qualitative value, their actual degree of
spirit nature. Spirit substance (quality) is just as responsive to spirit
gravity as the organized energy of physical matter (quantity) is responsive to
physical gravity. Spiritual values and spirit forces are real. From the
viewpoint of personality, spirit is the soul of creation; matter is the shadowy
physical body.

The reactions and fluctuations of spirit gravity are ever true to the content
of spiritual values, the qualitative spiritual status of an individual or a
world. This drawing power is instantly responsive to the inter- and intraspirit
values of any universe situation or planetary condition. Every time a spiritual
reality actualizes in the universes, this change necessitates the immediate and
instantaneous readjustment of spirit gravity. Such a new spirit is actually a
part of the Second Source and Center; and just as certainly as mortal man
becomes a spiritized being, he will attain the spiritual Son, the center and
source of spirit gravity.

The Son's spiritual drawing power is inherent to a lesser degree in many
Paradise orders of sonship. For there do exist within the absolute
spirit-gravity circuit those local systems of spiritual attraction that
function in the lesser units of creation. Such subabsolute focalizations of
spirit gravity are a part of the divinity of the Creator personalities of time
and space and are correlated with the emerging experiential overcontrol of the
Supreme Being.

Spirit-gravity pull and response thereto operate not only on the universe as a
whole but also even between individuals and groups of individuals. There is a
spiritual cohesiveness among the spiritual and spiritized personalities of any
world, race, nation, or believing group of individuals. There is a direct
attractiveness of a spirit nature between spiritually minded persons of like
tastes and longings. The term kindred spirits is not wholly a figure of speech.

Like the material gravity of Paradise, the spiritual gravity of the Eternal Son
is absolute. Sin and rebellion may interfere with the operation of local
universe circuits, but nothing can suspend the spirit gravity of the Eternal
Son. The Lucifer rebellion produced many changes in your system of inhabited
worlds and on Urantia, but we do not observe that the resultant spiritual
quarantine of your planet in the least affected the presence and function of
either the omnipresent spirit of the Eternal Son or the associated
spirit-gravity circuit.

All reactions of the spirit-gravity circuit of the grand universe are
predictable. We recognize all actions and reactions of the omnipresent spirit
of the Eternal Son and find them to be dependable. In accordance with
well-known laws, we can and do measure spiritual gravity just as man attempts
to compute the workings of finite physical gravity. There is an unvarying
response of the Son's spirit to all spirit things, beings, and persons, and
this response is always in accordance

                                top of page - 83

with the degree of actuality (the qualitative degree of reality) of all such
spiritual values.

But alongside this very dependable and predictable function of the spiritual
presence of the Eternal Son, there are encountered phenomena which are not so
predictable in their reactions. Such phenomena probably indicate the
co-ordinate action of the Deity Absolute in the realms of emerging spiritual
potentials. We know that the spirit presence of the Eternal Son is the
influence of a majestic and infinite personality, but we hardly regard the
reactions associated with the conjectured performances of the Deity Absolute as
personal.

Viewed from the personality standpoint and by persons, the Eternal Son and the
Deity Absolute appear to be related in the following way: The Eternal Son
dominates the realm of actual spiritual values, whereas the Deity Absolute
seems to pervade the vast domain of potential spirit values. All actual value
of spirit nature finds lodgment in the gravity grasp of the Eternal Son but, if
potential, then apparently in the presence of the Deity Absolute.

Spirit seems to emerge from the potentials of the Deity Absolute; evolving
spirit finds correlation in the experiential and incomplete grasps of the
Supreme and the Ultimate; spirit eventually finds final destiny in the absolute
grasp of the spiritual gravity of the Eternal Son. This appears to be the cycle
of experiential spirit, but existential spirit is inherent in the infinity of
the Second Source and Center.

2. THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE ETERNAL SON

On Paradise the presence and personal activity of the Original Son is profound,
absolute in the spiritual sense. As we pass outward from Paradise through
Havona and into the realms of the seven superuniverses, we detect less and less
of the personal activity of the Eternal Son. In the post-Havona universes the
presence of the Eternal Son is personalized in the Paradise Sons, conditioned
by the experiential realities of the Supreme and the Ultimate, and co-ordinated
with the unlimited spirit potential of the Deity Absolute.

In the central universe the personal activity of the Original Son is
discernible in the exquisite spiritual harmony of the eternal creation. Havona
is so marvelously perfect that the spiritual status and the energy states of
this pattern universe are in perfect and perpetual balance.

In the superuniverses the Son is not personally present or resident; in these
creations he maintains only a superpersonal representation. These spirit
manifestations of the Son are not personal; they are not in the personality
circuit of the Universal Father. We know of no better term to use than to
designate them superpersonalities; and they are finite beings; they are neither
absonite nor absolute.

The administration of the Eternal Son in the superuniverses, being exclusively
spiritual and superpersonal, is not discernible by creature personalities.
Nonetheless, the all-pervading spiritual urge of the Son's personal influence
is encountered in every phase of the activities of all sectors of the domains
of the Ancients of Days. In the local universes, however, we observe the
Eternal Son personally present in the persons of the Paradise Sons. Here the
infinite Son spiritually and creatively functions in the persons of the
majestic corps of the co-ordinate Creator Sons.

                                top of page - 84

3. RELATION OF THE ETERNAL SON TO THE INDIVIDUAL

In the local universe ascent the mortals of time look to the Creator Son as the
personal representative of the Eternal Son. But when they begin the ascent of
the superuniverse training regime, the pilgrims of time increasingly detect the
supernal presence of the inspiring spirit of the Eternal Son, and they are able
to profit by the intake of this ministry of spiritual energization. In Havona
the ascenders become still more conscious of the loving embrace of the
all-pervading spirit of the Original Son. At no stage of the entire mortal
ascension does the spirit of the Eternal Son indwell the mind or soul of the
pilgrim of time, but his beneficence is ever near and always concerned with the
welfare and spiritual security of the advancing children of time.

The spiritual-gravity pull of the Eternal Son constitutes the inherent secret
of the Paradise ascension of surviving human souls. All genuine spirit values
and all bona fide spiritualized individuals are held within the unfailing grasp
of the spiritual gravity of the Eternal Son. The mortal mind, for example,
initiates its career as a material mechanism and is eventually mustered into
the Corps of the Finality as a well-nigh perfected spirit existence, becoming
progressively less subject to material gravity and correspondingly more
responsive to the inward pulling urge of spirit gravity during this entire
experience. The spirit-gravity circuit literally pulls the soul of man
Paradiseward.

The spirit-gravity circuit is the basic channel for transmitting the genuine
prayers of the believing human heart from the level of human consciousness to
the actual consciousness of Deity. That which represents true spiritual value
in your petitions will be seized by the universal circuit of spirit gravity and
will pass immediately and simultaneously to all divine personalities concerned.
Each will occupy himself with that which belongs to his personal province.
Therefore, in your practical religious experience, it is immaterial whether, in
addressing your supplications, you visualize the Creator Son of your local
universe or the Eternal Son at the center of all things.

The discriminative operation of the spirit-gravity circuit might possibly be
compared to the functions of the neural circuits in the material human body:
Sensations travel inward over the neural paths; some are detained and responded
to by the lower automatic spinal centers; others pass on to the less automatic
but habit-trained centers of the lower brain, while the most important and
vital incoming messages flash by these subordinate centers and are immediately
registered in the highest levels of human consciousness.

But how much more perfect is the superb technique of the spiritual world! If
anything originates in your consciousness that is fraught with supreme
spiritual value, when once you give it expression, no power in the universe can
prevent its flashing directly to the Absolute Spirit Personality of all
creation.

Conversely, if your supplications are purely material and wholly self-centered,
there exists no plan whereby such unworthy prayers can find lodgment in the
spirit circuit of the Eternal Son. The content of any petition which is not
"spirit indited" can find no place in the universal spiritual circuit; such
purely selfish and material requests fall dead; they do not ascend in the
circuits of true spirit values. Such words are as "sounding brass and a
tinkling cymbal."

                                top of page - 85

It is the motivating thought, the spiritual content, that validates the mortal
supplication. Words are valueless.

4. THE DIVINE PERFECTION PLANS

The Eternal Son is in everlasting liaison with the Father in the successful
prosecution of the divine plan of progress: the universal plan for the
creation, evolution, ascension, and perfection of will creatures. And, in
divine faithfulness, the Son is the eternal equal of the Father.

The Father and his Son are as one in the formulation and prosecution of this
gigantic attainment plan for advancing the material beings of time to the
perfection of eternity. This project for the spiritual elevation of the
ascendant souls of space is a joint creation of the Father and the Son, and
they are, with the co-operation of the Infinite Spirit, engaged in associative
execution of their divine purpose.

This divine plan of perfection attainment embraces three unique, though
marvelously correlated, enterprises of universal adventure:

1. The Plan of Progressive Attainment. This is the Universal Father's plan of
evolutionary ascension, a program unreservedly accepted by the Eternal Son when
he concurred in the Father's proposal, "Let us make mortal creatures in our own
image." This provision for upstepping the creatures of time involves the
Father's bestowal of the Thought Adjusters and the endowing of material
creatures with the prerogatives of personality.

2. The Bestowal Plan. The next universal plan is the great Father-revelation
enterprise of the Eternal Son and his co-ordinate Sons. This is the proposal of
the Eternal Son and consists of his bestowal of the Sons of God upon the
evolutionary creations, there to personalize and factualize, to incarnate and
make real, the love of the Father and the mercy of the Son to the creatures of
all universes. Inherent in the bestowal plan, and as a provisional feature of
this ministration of love, the Paradise Sons act as rehabilitators of that
which misguided creature will has placed in spiritual jeopardy. Whenever and
wherever there occurs a delay in the functioning of the attainment plan, if
rebellion, perchance, should mar or complicate this enterprise, then do the
emergency provisions of the bestowal plan become active forthwith. The Paradise
Sons stand pledged and ready to function as retrievers, to go into the very
realms of rebellion and there restore the spiritual status of the spheres. And
such a heroic service a co-ordinate Creator Son did perform on Urantia in
connection with his experiential bestowal career of sovereignty acquirement.

3. The Plan of Mercy Ministry. When the attainment plan and the bestowal plan
had been formulated and proclaimed, alone and of himself, the Infinite Spirit
projected and put in operation the tremendous and universal enterprise of mercy
ministry. This is the service so essential to the practical and effective
operation of both the attainment and the bestowal undertakings, and the
spiritual personalities of the Third Source and Center all partake of the
spirit of mercy ministry which is so much a part of the nature of the Third
Person of Deity. Not only in creation but also in administration, the Infinite
Spirit functions truly and literally as the conjoint executive of the Father
and the Son.

                                top of page - 86

The Eternal Son is the personal trustee, the divine custodian, of the Father's
universal plan of creature ascension. Having promulgated the universal mandate,
"Be you perfect, even as I am perfect," the Father intrusted the execution of
this tremendous undertaking to the Eternal Son; and the Eternal Son shares the
fostering of this supernal enterprise with his divine co-ordinate, the Infinite
Spirit. Thus do the Deities effectively co-operate in the work of creation,
control, evolution, revelation, and ministration--and if required, in
restoration and rehabilitation.

5. THE SPIRIT OF BESTOWAL

The Eternal Son without reservation joined with the Universal Father in
broadcasting that tremendous injunction to all creation: "Be you perfect, even
as your Father in Havona is perfect." And ever since, that invitation-command
has motivated all the survival plans and the bestowal projects of the Eternal
Son and his vast family of co-ordinate and associated Sons. And in these very
bestowals the Sons of God have become to all evolutionary creatures "the way,
the truth, and the life."

The Eternal Son cannot contact directly with human beings as does the Father
through the gift of the prepersonal Thought Adjusters, but the Eternal Son does
draw near to created personalities by a series of downstepping gradations of
divine sonship until he is enabled to stand in man's presence and, at times, as
man himself.

The purely personal nature of the Eternal Son is incapable of fragmentation.
The Eternal Son ministers as a spiritual influence or as a person, never
otherwise. The Son finds it impossible to become a part of creature experience
in the sense that the Father-Adjuster participates therein, but the Eternal Son
compensates this limitation by the technique of bestowal. What the experience
of fragmented entities means to the Universal Father, the incarnation
experiences of the Paradise Sons mean to the Eternal Son.

The Eternal Son comes not to mortal man as the divine will, the Thought
Adjuster indwelling the human mind, but the Eternal Son did come to mortal man
on Urantia when the divine personality of his Son, Michael of Nebadon,
incarnated in the human nature of Jesus of Nazareth. To share the experience of
created personalities, the Paradise Sons of God must assume the very natures of
such creatures and incarnate their divine personalities as the actual creatures
themselves. Incarnation, the secret of Sonarington, is the technique of the
Son's escape from the otherwise all-encompassing fetters of personality
absolutism.

Long, long ago the Eternal Son bestowed himself upon each of the circuits of
the central creation for the enlightenment and advancement of all the
inhabitants and pilgrims of Havona, including the ascending pilgrims of time.
On none of these seven bestowals did he function as either an ascender or a
Havoner. He existed as himself. His experience was unique; it was not with or
as a human or other pilgrim but in some way associative in the superpersonal
sense.

Neither did he pass through the rest that intervenes between the inner Havona
circuit and the shores of Paradise. It is not possible for him, an absolute
being, to suspend consciousness of personality, for in him center all lines of
spiritual gravity. And during the times of these bestowals the central Paradise
lodgment of spiritual luminosity was undimmed, and the Son's grasp of universal
spirit gravity was undiminished.

                                top of page - 87

The bestowals of the Eternal Son in Havona are not within the scope of human
imagination; they were transcendental. He added to the experience of all Havona
then and subsequently, but we do not know whether he added to the supposed
experiential capacity of his existential nature. That would fall within the
bestowal mystery of the Paradise Sons. We do, however, believe that whatever
the Eternal Son acquired on these bestowal missions, he has ever since
retained; but we do not know what it is.

Whatever our difficulty in comprehending the bestowals of the Second Person of
Deity, we do comprehend the Havona bestowal of a Son of the Eternal Son, who
literally passed through the circuits of the central universe and actually
shared those experiences which constitute an ascender's preparation for Deity
attainment. This was the original Michael, the first-born Creator Son, and he
passed through the life experiences of the ascending pilgrims from circuit to
circuit, personally journeying a stage of each circle with them in the days of
Grandfanda, the first of all mortals to attain Havona.

Whatever else this original Michael revealed, he made the transcendent bestowal
of the Original Mother Son real to the creatures of Havona. So real, that
forevermore each pilgrim of time who labors in the adventure of making the
Havona circuits is cheered and strengthened by the certain knowledge that the
Eternal Son of God seven times abdicated the power and glory of Paradise to
participate in the experiences of the time-space pilgrims on the seven circuits
of progressive Havona attainment.

The Eternal Son is the exemplary inspiration for all the Sons of God in their
ministrations of bestowal throughout the universes of time and space. The
co-ordinate Creator Sons and the associate Magisterial Sons, together with
other unrevealed orders of sonship, all partake of this wonderful willingness
to bestow themselves upon the varied orders of creature life and as the
creatures themselves. Therefore, in spirit and because of kinship of nature as
well as fact of origin, it becomes true that in the bestowal of each Son of God
upon the worlds of space, in and through and by these bestowals, the Eternal
Son has bestowed himself upon the intelligent will creatures of the universes.

In spirit and nature, if not in all attributes, each Paradise Son is a divinely
perfect portraiture of the Original Son. It is literally true, whosoever has
seen a Paradise Son has seen the Eternal Son of God.

6. THE PARADISE SONS OF GOD

The lack of a knowledge of the multiple Sons of God is a source of great
confusion on Urantia. And this ignorance persists in the face of such
statements as the record of a conclave of these divine personalities: "When the
Sons of God proclaimed joy, and all of the Morning Stars sang together." Every
millennium of sector standard time the various orders of the divine Sons
forgather for their periodic conclaves.

The Eternal Son is the personal source of the adorable attributes of mercy and
service which so abundantly characterize all orders of the descending Sons of
God as they function throughout creation. All the divine nature, if not all the
infinity of attributes, the Eternal Son unfailingly transmits to the Paradise
Sons who go out from the eternal Isle to reveal his divine character to the
universe of universes.

                                top of page - 88

The Original and Eternal Son is the offspring-person of the "first" completed
and infinite thought of the Universal Father. Every time the Universal Father
and the Eternal Son jointly project a new, original, identical, unique, and
absolute personal thought, that very instant this creative idea is perfectly
and finally personalized in the being and personality of a new and original
Creator Son. In spirit nature, divine wisdom, and co-ordinate creative power,
these Creator Sons are potentially equal with God the Father and God the Son.

The Creator Sons go out from Paradise into the universes of time and, with the
co-operation of the controlling and creative agencies of the Third Source and
Center, complete the organization of the local universes of progressive
evolution. These Sons are not attached to, nor are they concerned with, the
central and universal controls of matter, mind, and spirit. Hence are they
limited in their creative acts by the pre-existence, priority, and primacy of
the First Source and Center and his co-ordinate Absolutes. These Sons are able
to administer only that which they bring into existence. Absolute
administration is inherent in priority of existence and is inseparable from
eternity of presence. The Father remains primal in the universes.

Much as the Creator Sons are personalized by the Father and the Son, so are the
Magisterial Sons personalized by the Son and the Spirit. These are the Sons
who, in the experiences of creature incarnation, earn the right to serve as the
judges of survival in the creations of time and space.

The Father, Son, and Spirit also unite to personalize the versatile Trinity
Teacher Sons, who range the grand universe as the supernal teachers of all
personalities, human and divine. And there are numerous other orders of
Paradise sonship that have not been brought to the attention of Urantia
mortals.

Between the Original Mother Son and these hosts of Paradise Sons scattered
throughout all creation, there is a direct and exclusive channel of
communication, a channel whose function is inherent in the quality of spiritual
kinship which unites them in bonds of near-absolute spiritual association. This
intersonship circuit is entirely different from the universal circuit of spirit
gravity, which also centers in the person of the Second Source and Center. All
Sons of God who take origin in the persons of the Paradise Deities are in
direct and constant communication with the Eternal Mother Son. And such
communication is instantaneous; it is independent of time though sometimes
conditioned by space.

The Eternal Son not only has at all times perfect knowledge concerning the
status, thoughts, and manifold activities of all orders of Paradise sonship,
but he also has perfection of knowledge at all times regarding everything of
spiritual value which exists in the hearts of all creatures in the primary
central creation of eternity and in the secondary time creations of the
co-ordinate Creator Sons.

7. THE SUPREME REVELATION OF THE FATHER

The Eternal Son is a complete, exclusive, universal, and final revelation of
the spirit and the personality of the Universal Father. All knowledge of, and
information concerning, the Father must come from the Eternal Son and his
Paradise Sons. The Eternal Son is from eternity and is wholly and without
spiritual qualification one with the Father. In divine personality they are
co-ordinate; in spiritual nature they are equal; in divinity they are
identical.

                                top of page - 89

The character of God could not possibly be intrinsically improved upon in the
person of the Son, for the divine Father is infinitely perfect, but that
character and personality are amplified, by divestment of the nonpersonal and
nonspiritual, for revelation to creature beings. The first Source and Center is
much more than a personality, but all of the spirit qualities of the father
personality of the First Source and Center are spiritually present in the
absolute personality of the Eternal Son.

The primal Son and his Sons are engaged in making a universal revelation of the
spiritual and personal nature of the Father to all creation. In the central
universe, the superuniverses, the local universes, or on the inhabited planets,
it is a Paradise Son who reveals the Universal Father to men and angels. The
Eternal Son and his Sons reveal the avenue of creature approach to the
Universal Father. And even we of high origin understand the Father much more
fully as we study the revelation of his character and personality in the
Eternal Son and in the Sons of the Eternal Son.

The Father comes down to you as a personality only through the divine Sons of
the Eternal Son. And you attain the Father by this same living way; you ascend
to the Father by the guidance of this group of divine Sons. And this remains
true notwithstanding that your very personality is a direct bestowal of the
Universal Father.

In all these widespread activities of the far-flung spiritual administration of
the Eternal Son, do not forget that the Son is a person just as truly and
actually as the Father is a person. Indeed, to beings of the onetime human
order the Eternal Son will be more easy to approach than the Universal Father.
In the progress of the pilgrims of time through the circuits of Havona, you
will be competent to attain the Son long before you are prepared to discern the
Father.

More of the character and merciful nature of the Eternal Son of mercy you
should comprehend as you meditate on the revelation of these divine attributes
which was made in loving service by your own Creator Son, onetime Son of Man on
earth, now the exalted sovereign of your local universe--the Son of Man and the
Son of God.

[Indited by a Divine Counselor assigned to formulate this statement depicting
the Eternal Son of Paradise.]

                                top of page - 90

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³       //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³           ³
³ The Eternal Son ³   The Infinite    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap!  ³
³                 ³       Sp...       ³       PA...       ³        ³           ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
