              Urantia Book Paper 11 The Eternal Isle Of Paradise
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 11 The Eternal Isle Of Paradise

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

PARADISE is the eternal center of the universe of universes and the abiding
place of the Universal Father, the Eternal Son, the Infinite Spirit, and their
divine co-ordinates and associates. This central Isle is the most gigantic
organized body of cosmic reality in all the master universe. Paradise is a
material sphere as well as a spiritual abode. All of the intelligent creation
of the Universal Father is domiciled on material abodes; hence must the
absolute controlling center also be material, literal. And again it should be
reiterated that spirit things and spiritual beings are real.

The material beauty of Paradise consists in the magnificence of its physical
perfection; the grandeur of the Isle of God is exhibited in the superb
intellectual accomplishments and mind development of its inhabitants; the glory
of the central Isle is shown forth in the infinite endowment of divine spirit
personality--the light of life. But the depths of the spiritual beauty and the
wonders of this magnificent ensemble are utterly beyond the comprehension of
the finite mind of material creatures. The glory and spiritual splendor of the
divine abode are impossible of mortal comprehension. And Paradise is from
eternity; there are neither records nor traditions respecting the origin of
this nuclear Isle of Light and Life.

1. THE DIVINE RESIDENCE

Paradise serves many purposes in the administration of the universal realms,
but to creature beings it exists primarily as the dwelling place of Deity. The
personal presence of the Universal Father is resident at the very center of the
upper surface of this well-nigh circular, but not spherical, abode of the
Deities. This Paradise presence of the Universal Father is immediately
surrounded by the personal presence of the Eternal Son, while they are both
invested by the unspeakable glory of the Infinite Spirit.

God dwells, has dwelt, and everlastingly will dwell in this same central and
eternal abode. We have always found him there and always will. The Universal
Father is cosmically focalized, spiritually personalized, and geographically
resident at this center of the universe of universes.

We all know the direct course to pursue to find the Universal Father. You are
not able to comprehend much about the divine residence because of its
remoteness from you and the immensity of the intervening space, but those who
are able to comprehend the meaning of these enormous distances know God's
location and residence just as certainly and literally as you know the location
of New York, London, Rome, or Singapore, cities definitely and geographically
located on Urantia. If you were an intelligent navigator, equipped with ship,

                                top of page - 119

maps, and compass, you could readily find these cities. Likewise, if you had
the time and means of passage, were spiritually qualified, and had the
necessary guidance, you could be piloted through universe upon universe and
from circuit to circuit, ever journeying inward through the starry realms,
until at last you would stand before the central shining of the spiritual glory
of the Universal Father. Provided with all the necessities for the journey, it
is just as possible to find the personal presence of God at the center of all
things as to find distant cities on your own planet. That you have not visited
these places in no way disproves their reality or actual existence. That so few
of the universe creatures have found God on Paradise in no way disproves either
the reality of his existence or the actuality of his spiritual person at the
center of all things.

The Father is always to be found at this central location. Did he move,
universal pandemonium would be precipitated, for there converge in him at this
residential center the universal lines of gravity from the ends of creation.
Whether we trace the personality circuit back through the universes or follow
the ascending personalities as they journey inward to the Father; whether we
trace the lines of material gravity to nether Paradise or follow the insurging
cycles of cosmic force; whether we trace the lines of spiritual gravity to the
Eternal Son or follow the inward processional of the Paradise Sons of God;
whether we trace out the mind circuits or follow the trillions upon trillions
of celestial beings who spring from the Infinite Spirit--by any of these
observations or by all of them we are led directly back to the Father's
presence, to his central abode. Here is God personally, literally, and actually
present. And from his infinite being there flow the flood-streams of life,
energy, and personality to all universes.

2. NATURE OF THE ETERNAL ISLE

Since you are beginning to glimpse the enormousness of the material universe
discernible even from your astronomical location, your space position in the
starry systems, it should become evident to you that such a tremendous material
universe must have an adequate and worthy capital, a headquarters commensurate
with the dignity and infinitude of the universal Ruler of all this vast and
far-flung creation of material realms and living beings.

In form Paradise differs from the inhabited space bodies: it is not spherical.
It is definitely ellipsoid, being one-sixth longer in the north-south diameter
than in the east-west diameter. The central Isle is essentially flat, and the
distance from the upper surface to the nether surface is one tenth that of the
east-west diameter.

These differences in dimensions, taken in connection with its stationary status
and the greater out-pressure of force-energy at the north end of the Isle, make
it possible to establish absolute direction in the master universe.

The central Isle is geographically divided into three domains of activity:

1. Upper Paradise.

2. Peripheral Paradise.

3. Nether Paradise.

We speak of that surface of Paradise which is occupied with personality
activities as the upper side, and the opposite surface as the nether side. The
periphery of Paradise provides for activities that are not strictly personal or

                                top of page - 120

nonpersonal. The Trinity seems to dominate the personal or upper plane, the
Unqualified Absolute the nether or impersonal plane. We hardly conceive of the
Unqualified Absolute as a person, but we do think of the functional space
presence of this Absolute as focalized on nether Paradise.

The eternal Isle is composed of a single form of materialization--stationary
systems of reality. This literal substance of Paradise is a homogeneous
organization of space potency not to be found elsewhere in all the wide
universe of universes. It has received many names in different universes, and
the Melchizedeks of Nebadon long since named it absolutum. This Paradise source
material is neither dead nor alive; it is the original nonspiritual expression
of the First Source and Center; it is Paradise, and Paradise is without
duplicate.

It appears to us that the First Source and Center has concentrated all absolute
potential for cosmic reality in Paradise as a part of his technique of
self-liberation from infinity limitations, as a means of making possible
subinfinite, even time-space, creation. But it does not follow that Paradise is
time-space limited just because the universe of universes discloses these
qualities. Paradise exists without time and has no location in space.

Roughly: space seemingly originates just below nether Paradise; time just above
upper Paradise. Time, as you understand it, is not a feature of Paradise
existence, though the citizens of the central Isle are fully conscious of
nontime sequence of events. Motion is not inherent on Paradise; it is
volitional. But the concept of distance, even absolute distance, has very much
meaning as it may be applied to relative locations on Paradise. Paradise is
nonspatial; hence its areas are absolute and therefore serviceable in many ways
beyond the concept of mortal mind.

3. UPPER PARADISE

On upper Paradise there are three grand spheres of activity, the Deity
presence, the Most Holy Sphere, and the Holy Area. The vast region immediately
surrounding the presence of the Deities is set aside as the Most Holy Sphere
and is reserved for the functions of worship, trinitization, and high spiritual
attainment. There are no material structures nor purely intellectual creations
in this zone; they could not exist there. It is useless for me to undertake to
portray to the human mind the divine nature and the beauteous grandeur of the
Most Holy Sphere of Paradise. This realm is wholly spiritual, and you are
almost wholly material. A purely spiritual reality is, to a purely material
being, apparently nonexistent.

While there are no physical materializations in the area of the Most Holy,
there are abundant souvenirs of your material days in the Holy Land sectors and
still more in the reminiscent historic areas of peripheral Paradise.

The Holy Area, the outlying or residential region, is divided into seven
concentric zones. Paradise is sometimes called "the Father's House" since it is
his eternal residence, and these seven zones are often designated "the Father's
Paradise mansions." The inner or first zone is occupied by Paradise Citizens
and the natives of Havona who may chance to be dwelling on Paradise. The next
or second zone is the residential area of the natives of the seven
superuniverses of time and space. This second zone is in part subdivided into
seven immense divisions, the Paradise home of the spirit beings and ascendant
creatures who hail from the universes of evolutionary progression. Each of
these sectors is exclu-

                                top of page - 121

sively dedicated to the welfare and advancement of the personalities of a
single superuniverse, but these facilities are almost infinitely beyond the
requirements of the present seven superuniverses.

Each of the seven sectors of Paradise is subdivided into residential units
suitable for the lodgment headquarters of one billion glorified individual
working groups. One thousand of these units constitute a division. One hundred
thousand divisions equal one congregation. Ten million congregations constitute
an assembly. One billion assemblies make one grand unit. And this ascending
series continues through the second grand unit, the third, and so on to the
seventh grand unit. And seven of the grand units make up the master units, and
seven of the master units constitute a superior unit; and thus by sevens the
ascending series expands through the superior, supersuperior, celestial,
supercelestial, to the supreme units. But even this does not utilize all the
space available. This staggering number of residential designations on
Paradise, a number beyond your concept, occupies considerably less than one per
cent of the assigned area of the Holy Land. There is still plenty of room for
those who are on their way inward, even for those who shall not start the
Paradise climb until the times of the eternal future.

4. PERIPHERAL PARADISE

The central Isle ends abruptly at the periphery, but its size is so enormous
that this terminal angle is relatively indiscernible within any circumscribed
area. The peripheral surface of Paradise is occupied, in part, by the landing
and dispatching fields for various groups of spirit personalities. Since the
nonpervaded-space zones nearly impinge upon the periphery, all personality
transports destined to Paradise land in these regions. Neither upper nor nether
Paradise is approachable by transport supernaphim or other types of space
traversers.

The Seven Master Spirits have their personal seats of power and authority on
the seven spheres of the Spirit, which circle about Paradise in the space
between the shining orbs of the Son and the inner circuit of the Havona worlds,
but they maintain force-focal headquarters on the Paradise periphery. Here the
slowly circulating presences of the Seven Supreme Power Directors indicate the
location of the seven flash stations for certain Paradise energies going forth
to the seven superuniverses.

Here on peripheral Paradise are the enormous historic and prophetic exhibit
areas assigned to the Creator Sons, dedicated to the local universes of time
and space. There are just seven trillion of these historic reservations now set
up or in reserve, but these arrangements all together occupy only about four
per cent of that portion of the peripheral area thus assigned. We infer that
these vast reserves belong to creations sometime to be situated beyond the
borders of the present known and inhabited seven superuniverses.

That portion of Paradise which has been designated for the use of the existing
universes is occupied only from one to four per cent, while the area assigned
to these activities is at least one million times that actually required for
such purposes. Paradise is large enough to accommodate the activities of an
almost infinite creation.

But a further attempt to visualize to you the glories of Paradise would be
futile. You must wait, and ascend while you wait, for truly, "Eye has not seen,
nor ear heard, neither has it entered into the mind of mortal man, the things

                                top of page - 122

which the Universal Father has prepared for those who survive the life in the
flesh on the worlds of time and space."

5. NETHER PARADISE

Concerning nether Paradise, we know only that which is revealed; personalities
do not sojourn there. It has nothing whatever to do with the affairs of spirit
intelligences, nor does the Deity Absolute there function. We are informed that
all physical-energy and cosmic-force circuits have their origin on nether
Paradise, and that it is constituted as follows:

1. Directly underneath the location of the Trinity, in the central portion of
nether Paradise, is the unknown and unrevealed Zone of Infinity.

2. This Zone is immediately surrounded by an unnamed area.

3. Occupying the outer margins of the under surface is a region having mainly
to do with space potency and force-energy. The activities of this vast
elliptical force center are not identifiable with the known functions of any
triunity, but the primordial force-charge of space appears to be focalized in
this area. This center consists of three concentric elliptical zones: The
innermost is the focal point of the force-energy activities of Paradise itself;
the outermost may possibly be identified with the functions of the Unqualified
Absolute, but we are not certain concerning the space functions of the
mid-zone.

The inner zone of this force center seems to act as a gigantic heart whose
pulsations direct currents to the outermost borders of physical space. It
directs and modifies force-energies but hardly drives them. The reality
pressure-presence of this primal force is definitely greater at the north end
of the Paradise center than in the southern regions; this is a uniformly
registered difference. The mother force of space seems to flow in at the south
and out at the north through the operation of some unknown circulatory system
which is concerned with the diffusion of this basic form of force-energy. From
time to time there are also noted differences in the east-west pressures. The
forces emanating from this zone are not responsive to observable physical
gravity but are always obedient to Paradise gravity.

The mid-zone of the force center immediately surrounds this area. This mid-zone
appears to be static except that it expands and contracts through three cycles
of activity. The least of these pulsations is in an east-west direction, the
next in a north-south direction, while the greatest fluctuation is in every
direction, a generalized expansion and contraction. The function of this
mid-area has never been really identified, but it must have something to do
with reciprocal adjustment between the inner and the outer zones of the force
center. It is believed by many that the mid-zone is the control mechanism of
the mid-space or quiet zones which separate the successive space levels of the
master universe, but no evidence or revelation confirms this. This inference is
derived from the knowledge that this mid-area is in some manner related to the
functioning of the nonpervaded-space mechanism of the master universe.

The outer zone is the largest and most active of the three concentric and
elliptical belts of unidentified space potential. This area is the site of
unimagined activities, the central circuit point of emanations which proceed
spaceward in every direction to the outermost borders of the seven
superuniverses and on

                                top of page - 123

beyond to overspread the enormous and incomprehensible domains of all outer
space. This space presence is entirely impersonal notwithstanding that in some
undisclosed manner it seems to be indirectly responsive to the will and
mandates of the infinite Deities when acting as the Trinity. This is believed
to be the central focalization, the Paradise center, of the space presence of
the Unqualified Absolute.

All forms of force and all phases of energy seem to be encircuited; they
circulate throughout the universes and return by definite routes. But with the
emanations of the activated zone of the Unqualified Absolute there appears to
be either an outgoing or an incoming--never both simultaneously. This outer
zone pulsates in agelong cycles of gigantic proportions. For a little more than
one billion Urantia years the space-force of this center is outgoing; then for
a similar length of time it will be incoming. And the space-force
manifestations of this center are universal; they extend throughout all
pervadable space.

All physical force, energy, and matter are one. All force-energy originally
proceeded from nether Paradise and will eventually return thereto following the
completion of its space circuit. But the energies and material organizations of
the universe of universes did not all come from nether Paradise in their
present phenomenal states; space is the womb of several forms of matter and
prematter. Though the outer zone of the Paradise force center is the source of
space-energies, space does not originate there. Space is not force, energy, or
power. Nor do the pulsations of this zone account for the respiration of space,
but the incoming and outgoing phases of this zone are synchronized with the
two-billion-year expansion-contraction cycles of space.

6. SPACE RESPIRATION

We do not know the actual mechanism of space respiration; we merely observe
that all space alternately contracts and expands. This respiration affects both
the horizontal extension of pervaded space and the vertical extensions of
unpervaded space which exist in the vast space reservoirs above and below
Paradise. In attempting to imagine the volume outlines of these space
reservoirs, you might think of an hourglass.

As the universes of the horizontal extension of pervaded space expand, the
reservoirs of the vertical extension of unpervaded space contract and vice
versa. There is a confluence of pervaded and unpervaded space just underneath
nether Paradise. Both types of space there flow through the transmuting
regulation channels, where changes are wrought making pervadable space
nonpervadable and vice versa in the contraction and expansion cycles of the
cosmos.

"Unpervaded" space means: unpervaded by those forces, energies, powers, and
presences known to exist in pervaded space. We do not know whether vertical
(reservoir) space is destined always to function as the equipoise of horizontal
(universe) space; we do not know whether there is a creative intent concerning
unpervaded space; we really know very little about the space reservoirs, merely
that they exist, and that they seem to counterbalance the
space-expansion-contraction cycles of the universe of universes.

The cycles of space respiration extend in each phase for a little more than one
billion Urantia years. During one phase the universes expand; during the

                                top of page - 124

next they contract. Pervaded space is now approaching the mid-point of the
expanding phase, while unpervaded space nears the mid-point of the contracting
phase, and we are informed that the outermost limits of both space extensions
are, theoretically, now approximately equidistant from Paradise. The
unpervaded-space reservoirs now extend vertically above upper Paradise and
below nether Paradise just as far as the pervaded space of the universe extends
horizontally outward from peripheral Paradise to and even beyond the fourth
outer space level.

For a billion years of Urantia time the space reservoirs contract while the
master universe and the force activities of all horizontal space expand. It
thus requires a little over two billion Urantia years to complete the entire
expansion-contraction cycle.

7. SPACE FUNCTIONS OF PARADISE

Space does not exist on any of the surfaces of Paradise. If one "looked"
directly up from the upper surface of Paradise, one would "see" nothing but
unpervaded space going out or coming in, just now coming in. Space does not
touch Paradise; only the quiescent midspace zones come in contact with the
central Isle.

Paradise is the actually motionless nucleus of the relatively quiescent zones
existing between pervaded and unpervaded space. Geographically these zones
appear to be a relative extension of Paradise, but there probably is some
motion in them. We know very little about them, but we observe that these zones
of lessened space motion separate pervaded and unpervaded space. Similar zones
once existed between the levels of pervaded space, but these are now less
quiescent.

The vertical cross section of total space would slightly resemble a maltese
cross, with the horizontal arms representing pervaded (universe) space and the
vertical arms representing unpervaded (reservoir) space. The areas between the
four arms would separate them somewhat as the midspace zones separate pervaded
and unpervaded space. These quiescent midspace zones grow larger and larger at
greater and greater distances from Paradise and eventually encompass the
borders of all space and completely incapsulate both the space reservoirs and
the entire horizontal extension of pervaded space.

Space is neither a subabsolute condition within, nor the presence of, the
Unqualified Absolute, neither is it a function of the Ultimate. It is a
bestowal of Paradise, and the space of the grand universe and that of all outer
regions is believed to be actually pervaded by the ancestral space potency of
the Unqualified Absolute. From near approach to peripheral Paradise, this
pervaded space extends horizontally outward through the fourth space level and
beyond the periphery of the master universe, but how far beyond we do not know.

If you imagine a finite, but inconceivably large, V-shaped plane situated at
right angles to both the upper and lower surfaces of Paradise, with its point
nearly tangent to peripheral Paradise, and then visualize this plane in
elliptical revolution about Paradise, its revolution would roughly outline the
volume of pervaded space.

There is an upper and a lower limit to horizontal space with reference to any
given location in the universes. If one could move far enough at right angles
to

                                top of page - 125

the plane of Orvonton, either up or down, eventually the upper or lower limit
of pervaded space would be encountered. Within the known dimensions of the
master universe these limits draw farther and farther apart at greater and
greater distances from Paradise; space thickens, and it thickens somewhat
faster than does the plane of creation, the universes.

The relatively quiet zones between the space levels, such as the one separating
the seven superuniverses from the first outer space level, are enormous
elliptical regions of quiescent space activities. These zones separate the vast
galaxies which race around Paradise in orderly procession. You may visualize
the first outer space level, where untold universes are now in process of
formation, as a vast procession of galaxies swinging around Paradise, bounded
above and below by the midspace zones of quiescence and bounded on the inner
and outer margins by relatively quiet space zones.

A space level thus functions as an elliptical region of motion surrounded on
all sides by relative motionlessness. Such relationships of motion and
quiescence constitute a curved space path of lessened resistance to motion
which is universally followed by cosmic force and emergent energy as they
circle forever around the Isle of Paradise.

This alternate zoning of the master universe, in association with the alternate
clockwise and counterclockwise flow of the galaxies, is a factor in the
stabilization of physical gravity designed to prevent the accentuation of
gravity pressure to the point of disruptive and dispersive activities. Such an
arrangement exerts antigravity influence and acts as a brake upon otherwise
dangerous velocities.

8. PARADISE GRAVITY

The inescapable pull of gravity effectively grips all the worlds of all the
universes of all space. Gravity is the all-powerful grasp of the physical
presence of Paradise. Gravity is the omnipotent strand on which are strung the
gleaming stars, blazing suns, and whirling spheres which constitute the
universal physical adornment of the eternal God, who is all things, fills all
things, and in whom all things consist.

The center and focal point of absolute material gravity is the Isle of
Paradise, complemented by the dark gravity bodies encircling Havona and
equilibrated by the upper and nether space reservoirs. All known emanations of
nether Paradise invariably and unerringly respond to the central gravity pull
operating upon the endless circuits of the elliptical space levels of the
master universe. Every known form of cosmic reality has the bend of the ages,
the trend of the circle, the swing of the great ellipse.

Space is nonresponsive to gravity, but it acts as an equilibrant on gravity.
Without the space cushion, explosive action would jerk surrounding space
bodies. Pervaded space also exerts an antigravity influence upon physical or
linear gravity; space can actually neutralize such gravity action even though
it cannot delay it. Absolute gravity is Paradise gravity. Local or linear
gravity pertains to the electrical stage of energy or matter; it operates
within the central, super-, and outer universes, wherever suitable
materialization has taken place.

The numerous forms of cosmic force, physical energy, universe power, and
various materializations disclose three general, though not perfectly
clear-cut, stages of response to Paradise gravity:

                                top of page - 126

1. Pregravity Stages (Force). This is the first step in the individuation of
space potency into the pre-energy forms of cosmic force. This state is
analogous to the concept of the primordial force-charge of space, sometimes
called pure energy or segregata.

2. Gravity Stages (Energy). This modification of the force-charge of space is
produced by the action of the Paradise force organizers. It signalizes the
appearance of energy systems responsive to the pull of Paradise gravity. This
emergent energy is originally neutral but consequent upon further metamorphosis
will exhibit the so-called negative and positive qualities. We designate these
stages ultimata.

3. Postgravity Stages (Universe Power). In this stage, energy-matter discloses
response to the control of linear gravity. In the central universe these
physical systems are threefold organizations known as triata. They are the
superpower mother systems of the creations of time and space. The physical
systems of the superuniverses are mobilized by the Universe Power Directors and
their associates. These material organizations are dual in constitution and are
known as gravita. The dark gravity bodies encircling Havona are neither triata
nor gravita, and their drawing power discloses both forms of physical gravity,
linear and absolute.

Space potency is not subject to the interactions of any form of gravitation.
This primal endowment of Paradise is not an actual level of reality, but it is
ancestral to all relative functional nonspirit realities--all manifestations of
force-energy and the organization of power and matter. Space potency is a term
difficult to define. It does not mean that which is ancestral to space; its
meaning should convey the idea of the potencies and potentials existent within
space. It may be roughly conceived to include all those absolute influences and
potentials which emanate from Paradise and constitute the space presence of the
Unqualified Absolute.

Paradise is the absolute source and the eternal focal point of all
energy-matter in the universe of universes. The Unqualified Absolute is the
revealer, regulator, and repository of that which has Paradise as its source
and origin. The universal presence of the Unqualified Absolute seems to be
equivalent to the concept of a potential infinity of gravity extension, an
elastic tension of Paradise presence. This concept aids us in grasping the fact
that everything is drawn inward towards Paradise. The illustration is crude but
nonetheless helpful. It also explains why gravity always acts preferentially in
the plane perpendicular to the mass, a phenomenon indicative of the
differential dimensions of Paradise and the surrounding creations.

9. THE UNIQUENESS OF PARADISE

Paradise is unique in that it is the realm of primal origin and the final goal
of destiny for all spirit personalities. Although it is true that not all of
the lower spirit beings of the local universes are immediately destined to
Paradise, Paradise still remains the goal of desire for all supermaterial
personalities.

Paradise is the geographic center of infinity; it is not a part of universal
creation, not even a real part of the eternal Havona universe. We commonly
refer to the central Isle as belonging to the divine universe, but it really
does not. Paradise is an eternal and exclusive existence.

                                top of page - 127

In the eternity of the past, when the Universal Father gave infinite
personality expression of his spirit self in the being of the Eternal Son,
simultaneously he revealed the infinity potential of his nonpersonal self as
Paradise. Nonpersonal and nonspiritual Paradise appears to have been the
inevitable repercussion to the Father's will and act which eternalized the
Original Son. Thus did the Father project reality in two actual phases--the
personal and the nonpersonal, the spiritual and the nonspiritual. The tension
between them, in the face of will to action by the Father and the Son, gave
existence to the Conjoint Actor and the central universe of material worlds and
spiritual beings.

When reality is differentiated into the personal and the nonpersonal (Eternal
Son and Paradise), it is hardly proper to call that which is nonpersonal
"Deity" unless somehow qualified. The energy and material repercussions of the
acts of Deity could hardly be called Deity. Deity may cause much that is not
Deity, and Paradise is not Deity; neither is it conscious as mortal man could
ever possibly understand such a term.

Paradise is not ancestral to any being or living entity; it is not a creator.
Personality and mind-spirit relationships are transmissible, but pattern is
not. Patterns are never reflections; they are duplications--reproductions.
Paradise is the absolute of patterns; Havona is an exhibit of these potentials
in actuality.

God's residence is central and eternal, glorious and ideal. His home is the
beauteous pattern for all universe headquarters worlds; and the central
universe of his immediate indwelling is the pattern for all universes in their
ideals, organization, and ultimate destiny.

Paradise is the universal headquarters of all personality activities and the
source-center of all force-space and energy manifestations. Everything which
has been, now is, or is yet to be, has come, now comes, or will come forth from
this central abiding place of the eternal Gods. Paradise is the center of all
creation, the source of all energies, and the place of primal origin of all
personalities.

After all, to mortals the most important thing about eternal Paradise is the
fact that this perfect abode of the Universal Father is the real and
far-distant destiny of the immortal souls of the mortal and material sons of
God, the ascending creatures of the evolutionary worlds of time and space.
Every God-knowing mortal who has espoused the career of doing the Father's will
has already embarked upon the long, long Paradise trail of divinity pursuit and
perfection attainment. And when such an animal-origin being does stand, as
countless numbers now do, before the Gods on Paradise, having ascended from the
lowly spheres of space, such an achievement represents the reality of a
spiritual transformation bordering on the limits of supremacy.

[Presented by a Perfector of Wisdom commissioned thus to function by the
Ancients of Days on Uversa.]

                                top of page - 128

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   The Paradise   ³   The Universe    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Tr...       ³       Of...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
