            Urantia Book Paper 13 The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 13 The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

BETWEEN the central Isle of Paradise and the innermost of the Havona planetary
circuits there are situated in space three lesser circuits of special spheres.
The innermost circuit consists of the seven secret spheres of the Universal
Father; the second group is composed of the seven luminous worlds of the
Eternal Son; in the outermost are the seven immense spheres of the Infinite
Spirit, the executive-headquarters worlds of the Seven Master Spirits.

These three seven-world circuits of the Father, the Son, and the Spirit are
spheres of unexcelled grandeur and unimagined glory. Even their material or
physical construction is of an order unrevealed to you. Each circuit is diverse
in material, and each world of each circuit is different excepting the seven
worlds of the Son, which are alike in physical constitution. All twenty-one are
enormous spheres, and each group of seven is differently eternalized. As far as
we know they have always been; like Paradise they are eternal. There exists
neither record nor tradition of their origin.

The seven secret spheres of the Universal Father, circulating about Paradise in
close proximity to the eternal Isle, are highly reflective of the spiritual
luminosity of the central shining of the eternal Deities, shedding this light
of divine glory throughout Paradise and even upon the seven circuits of Havona.

On the seven sacred worlds of the Eternal Son there appear to take origin the
impersonal energies of spirit luminosity. No personal being may sojourn on any
of these seven shining realms. With spiritual glory they illuminate all
Paradise and Havona, and they directionize pure spirit luminosity to the seven
superuniverses. These brilliant spheres of the second circuit likewise emit
their light (light without heat) to Paradise and to the billion worlds of the
seven-circuited central universe.

The seven worlds of the Infinite Spirit are occupied by the Seven Master
Spirits, who preside over the destinies of the seven superuniverses, sending
forth the spiritual illumination of the Third Person of Deity to these
creations of time and space. And all Havona, but not the Isle of Paradise, is
bathed in these spiritualizing influences.

Although the worlds of the Father are ultimate status spheres for all
Father-endowed personalities, this is not their exclusive function. Many beings
and entities other than personal sojourn on these worlds. Each world in the
circuit of the Father and the circuit of the Spirit has a distinct type of
permanent citizenship, but we think the Son's worlds are inhabited by uniform
types of other-than-personal beings. Father fragments are among the natives of
Divinington; the other orders of permanent citizenship are unrevealed to you.

The twenty-one Paradise satellites serve many purposes in both central and
superuniverses not disclosed in these narratives. You are able to understand so

                                top of page - 144

little of the life of these spheres that you cannot hope to gain anything like
a consistent view of them, either as to nature or function; thousands of
activities are there going on which are unrevealed to you. These twenty-one
spheres embrace the potentials of the function of the master universe. These
papers afford only a fleeting glimpse of certain circumscribed activities
pertaining to the present universe age of the grand universe--rather, one of
the seven sectors of the grand universe.

1. THE SEVEN SACRED WORLDS OF THE FATHER

The Father's circuit of sacred life spheres contains the only inherent
personality secrets in the universe of universes. These satellites of Paradise,
the innermost of the three circuits, are the only forbidden domains concerned
with personality in the central universe. Nether Paradise and the worlds of the
Son are likewise closed to personalities, but neither of those realms is in any
way directly concerned with personality.

The Paradise worlds of the Father are directed by the highest order of the
Stationary Sons of the Trinity, the Trinitized Secrets of Supremacy. Of these
worlds I can tell little; of their manifold activities I may tell less. Such
information concerns only those beings who function thereon and go forth
therefrom. And though I am somewhat familiar with six of these special worlds,
never have I landed on Divinington; that world is wholly forbidden to me.

One of the reasons for the secrecy of these worlds is because each of these
sacred spheres enjoys a specialized representation, or manifestation, of the
Deities composing the Paradise Trinity; not a personality, but a unique
presence of Divinity which can only be appreciated and comprehended by those
particular groups of intelligences resident on, or admissible to, that
particular sphere. The Trinitized Secrets of Supremacy are the personal agents
of these specialized and impersonal presences of Divinity. And the Secrets of
Supremacy are highly personal beings, superbly endowed and marvelously adapted
to their exalted and exacting work.

1. DIVININGTON. This world is, in a unique sense, the "bosom of the Father,"
the personal-communion sphere of the Universal Father, and thereon is a special
manifestation of his divinity. Divinington is the Paradise rendezvous of the
Thought Adjusters, but it is also the home of numerous other entities,
personalities, and other beings taking origin in the Universal Father. Many
personalities besides the Eternal Son are of direct origin by the solitary acts
of the Universal Father. Only the Father fragments and those personalities and
other beings of direct and exclusive origin in the Universal Father fraternize
and function on this abode.

The secrets of Divinington include the secret of the bestowal and mission of
Thought Adjusters. Their nature, origin, and the technique of their contact
with the lowly creatures of the evolutionary worlds is a secret of this
Paradise sphere. These amazing transactions do not personally concern the rest
of us, and therefore do the Deities deem it proper to withhold certain features
of this great and divine ministry from our full understanding. In so far as we
come in contact with this phase of divine activity, we are permitted full
knowledge of these transactions, but concerning the intimate details of this
great bestowal we are not fully informed.

                                top of page - 145

This sphere also holds the secrets of the nature, purpose, and activities of
all other forms of Father fragments, of the Gravity Messengers, and of hosts of
other beings unrevealed to you. It is highly probable that those truths
pertaining to Divinington which are withheld from me, if revealed, would merely
confuse and handicap me in my present work, and still again, perhaps they are
beyond the conceptual capacity of my order of being.

2. SONARINGTON. This sphere is the "bosom of the Son," the personal receiving
world of the Eternal Son. It is the Paradise headquarters of the descending and
ascending Sons of God when, and after, they are fully accredited and finally
approved. This world is the Paradise home for all Sons of the Eternal Son and
of his co-ordinate and associate Sons. There are numerous orders of divine
sonship attached to this supernal abode which have not been revealed to mortals
since they are not concerned with the plans of the ascension scheme of human
spiritual progression through the universes and on to Paradise.

The secrets of Sonarington include the secret of the incarnation of the divine
Sons. When a Son of God becomes a Son of Man, is literally born of woman, as
occurred on your world nineteen hundred years ago, it is a universal mystery.
It is occurring right along throughout the universes, and it is a Sonarington
secret of divine sonship. The Adjusters are a mystery of God the Father. The
incarnation of the divine Sons is a mystery of God the Son; it is a secret
locked up in the seventh sector of Sonarington, a realm penetrated by none save
those who have personally passed through this unique experience. Only those
phases of incarnation having to do with your ascension career have been brought
to your notice. There are many other phases of the mystery of the incarnation
of the Paradise Sons of unrevealed types on missions of universe service which
are undisclosed to you. And there are still other Sonarington mysteries.

3. SPIRITINGTON. This world is the "bosom of the Spirit," the Paradise home of
the high beings that exclusively represent the Infinite Spirit. Here forgather
the Seven Master Spirits and certain of their offspring from all universes. At
this celestial abode may also be found numerous unrevealed orders of spirit
personalities, beings assigned to the manifold activities of the universe not
associated with the plans of upstepping the mortal creatures of time to the
Paradise levels of eternity.

The secrets of Spiritington involve the impenetrable mysteries of reflectivity.
We tell you of the vast and universal phenomenon of reflectivity, more
particularly as it is operative on the headquarters worlds of the seven
superuniverses, but we never fully explain this phenomenon, for we do not fully
understand it. Much, very much, we do comprehend, but many basic details are
still mysterious to us. Reflectivity is a secret of God the Spirit. You have
been instructed concerning reflectivity functions in relation to the ascension
scheme of mortal survival, and it does so operate, but reflectivity is also an
indispensable feature of the normal working of numerous other phases of
universe occupation. This endowment of the Infinite Spirit is also utilized in
channels other than those of intelligence gathering and information
dissemination. And there are other secrets of Spiritington.

4. VICEGERINGTON. This planet is the "bosom of the Father and the Son" and is
the secret sphere of certain unrevealed beings who take origin by the acts of
the Father and the Son. This is also the Paradise home of many glori-

                                top of page - 146

fied beings of complex ancestry, those whose origin is complicated because of
the many diverse techniques operative in the seven superuniverses. Many groups
of beings forgather on this world whose identity has not been revealed to
Urantia mortals.

The secrets of Vicegerington include the secrets of trinitization, and
trinitization constitutes the secret of authority to represent the Trinity, to
act as vicegerents of the Gods. Authority to represent the Trinity attaches
only to those beings, revealed and unrevealed, who are trinitized, created,
eventuated, or eternalized by any two or all three of the Paradise Trinity.
Personalities brought into being by the trinitizing acts of certain types of
glorified creatures represent no more than the conceptual potential mobilized
in that trinitization, albeit such creatures may ascend the path of Deity
embrace open to all of their kind.

Nontrinitized beings do not fully understand the technique of trinitization by
either two or three Creators or by certain creatures. You will never fully
understand such a phenomenon unless, in the far-distant future of your
glorified career, you should essay and succeed in such an adventure, because
otherwise these secrets of Vicegerington will always be forbidden you. But to
me, a high Trinity-origin being, all sectors of Vicegerington are open. I fully
understand, and just as fully and sacredly protect, the secret of my origin and
destiny.

There are still other forms and phases of trinitization which have not been
brought to the notice of the Urantia peoples, and these experiences, in their
personal aspects, are duly protected in the secret sector of Vicegerington.

5. SOLITARINGTON. This world is the "bosom of the Father and the Spirit" and is
the rendezvous of a magnificent host of unrevealed beings of origin in the
conjoint acts of the Universal Father and the Infinite Spirit, beings who
partake of the traits of the Father in addition to their Spirit inheritance.

This is also the home of the Solitary Messengers and of other personalities of
the superangelic orders. You know of very few of these beings; there are vast
numbers of orders unrevealed on Urantia. Because they are domiciled on the
fifth world, it does not necessarily follow that the Father had aught to do
with the creation of Solitary Messengers or their superangelic associates, but
in this universe age he does have to do with their function. During the present
universe age this is also the status sphere of the Universe Power Directors.

There are numerous additional orders of spirit personalities, beings unknown to
mortal man, who look upon Solitarington as their Paradise home sphere. It
should be remembered that all divisions and levels of universe activities are
just as fully provided with spirit ministers as is the realm concerned with
helping mortal man ascend to his divine Paradise destiny.

The secrets of Solitarington. Besides certain secrets of trinitization, this
world holds the secrets of the personal relation of the Infinite Spirit with
certain of the higher offspring of the Third Source and Center. On
Solitarington are held the mysteries of the intimate association of numerous
unrevealed orders with the spirits of the Father, of the Son, and of the
Spirit, with the threefold spirit of the Trinity, and with the spirits of the
Supreme, the Ultimate, and the Supreme-Ultimate.

6. SERAPHINGTON. This sphere is the "bosom of the Son and the Spirit" and is
the home world of the vast hosts of unrevealed beings created by the Son and
the Spirit. This is also the destiny sphere of all ministering orders of the

                                top of page - 147

angelic hosts, including supernaphim, seconaphim, and seraphim. There also
serve in the central and outlying universes many orders of superb spirits who
are not "ministering spirits to those who shall be heirs of salvation." All
these spirit workers in all levels and realms of universe activities look upon
Seraphington as their Paradise home.

The secrets of Seraphington involve a threefold mystery, only one of which I
may mention--the mystery of seraphic transport. The ability of various orders
of seraphim and allied spirit beings to envelop within their spirit forms all
orders of nonmaterial personalities and to carry them away on lengthy
interplanetary journeys, is a secret locked up in the sacred sectors of
Seraphington. The transport seraphim comprehend this mystery, but they do not
communicate it to the rest of us, or perhaps they cannot. The other mysteries
of Seraphington pertain to the personal experiences of types of spirit servers
as yet not revealed to mortals. And we refrain from discussing the secrets of
such closely related beings because you can almost comprehend such near orders
of existence, and it would be akin to betrayal of trust to present even our
partial knowledge of such phenomena.

7. ASCENDINGTON. This unique world is the "bosom of the Father, Son, and
Spirit," the rendezvous of the ascendant creatures of space, the receiving
sphere of the pilgrims of time who are passing through the Havona universe on
their way to Paradise. Ascendington is the actual Paradise home of the
ascendant souls of time and space until they attain Paradise status. You
mortals will spend most of your Havona "vacations" on Ascendington. During your
Havona life Ascendington will be to you what the reversion directors were
during the local and superuniverse ascension. Here you will engage in thousands
of activities which are beyond the grasp of mortal imagination. And as on every
previous advance in the Godward ascent, your human self will here enter into
new relationships with your divine self.

The secrets of Ascendington include the mystery of the gradual and certain
building up in the material and mortal mind of a spiritual and potentially
immortal counterpart of character and identity. This phenomenon constitutes one
of the most perplexing mysteries of the universes--the evolution of an immortal
soul within the mind of a mortal and material creature.

You will never fully understand this mysterious transaction until you reach
Ascendington. And that is just why all Ascendington will be open to your
wondering gaze. One seventh of Ascendington is forbidden to me--that sector
concerned with this very secret which is (or will be) the exclusive experience
and possession of your type of being. This experience belongs to your human
order of existence. My order of personality is not directly concerned with such
transactions. It is therefore forbidden to me and eventually revealed to you.
But even after it is revealed to you, for some reason it forever remains your
secret. You do not reveal it to us nor to any other order of beings. We know
about the eternal fusion of a divine Adjuster and an immortal soul of human
origin, but the ascendant finaliters know this very experience as an absolute
reality.

2. FATHER-WORLD RELATIONSHIPS

These home worlds of the diverse orders of spiritual beings are tremendous and
stupendous spheres, and they are equal to Paradise in their matchless beauty
and superb glory. They are rendezvous worlds, reunion spheres, serving as per-

                                top of page - 148

manent cosmic addresses. As finaliters you will be domiciled on Paradise, but
Ascendington will be your home address at all times, even when you enter
service in outer space. Through all eternity you will regard Ascendington as
your home of sentimental memories and reminiscent recollections. When you
become seventh-stage spirit beings, possibly you will give up your residential
status on Paradise.

If outer universes are in the making, if they are to be inhabited by time
creatures of ascension potential, then we infer that these children of the
future will also be destined to look upon Ascendington as their Paradise home
world.

Ascendington is the only sacred sphere that will be unreservedly open to your
inspection as a Paradise arrival. Vicegerington is the only sacred sphere that
is wholly and unreservedly open to my scrutiny. Though its secrets are
concerned in my origin, in this universe age I do not regard Vicegerington as
my home. Trinity-origin beings and trinitized beings are not the same.

The Trinity-origin beings do not fully share the Father's worlds; they have
their sole homes on the Isle of Paradise in close proximity to the Most Holy
Sphere. They often appear on Ascendington, the "bosom of the
Father-Son-Spirit," where they fraternize with their brethren who have come up
from the lowly worlds of space.

You might assume that Creator Sons, being of Father-Son origin, would regard
Vicegerington as their home, but such is not the case in this universe age of
the function of God the Sevenfold. And there are many similar problems that
will perplex you, for you are sure to encounter many difficulties as you
attempt to understand these things which are so near Paradise. Nor can you
successfully reason out these questions; you know so little. And if you knew
more about the Father's worlds, you would simply encounter more difficulties
until you knew all about them. Status on any of these secret worlds is acquired
by service as well as by nature of origin, and the successive universe ages may
and do redistribute certain of these personality groupings.

The worlds of the inner circuit are really fraternal or status worlds more than
actual residential spheres. Mortals will attain some status on each of the
Father's worlds save one. For example: When you mortals attain Havona, you are
granted clearance for Ascendington, where you are most welcome, but you are not
permitted to visit the other six sacred worlds. Subsequent to your passage
through the Paradise regime and after your admission to the Corps of the
Finality, you are granted clearance for Sonarington since you are sons of God
as well as ascenders--and you are even more. But there will always remain one
seventh of Sonarington, the sector of the incarnation secrets of the divine
Sons, which will not be open to your scrutiny. Never will those secrets be
revealed to the ascendant sons of God.

Eventually you will have full access to Ascendington and relative access to the
other spheres of the Father except Divinington. But even when you are granted
permission to land on five additional secret spheres, after you have become a
finaliter, you will not be allowed to visit all sectors of such worlds. Nor
will you be permitted to land on the shores of Divinington, the "bosom of the
Father," though you shall surely stand repeatedly at the "right hand of the
Father." Never throughout all eternity will there arise any necessity for your
presence on the world of the Thought Adjusters.

                                top of page - 149

These rendezvous worlds of spirit life are forbidden ground to the extent that
we are asked not to negotiate entrance to those phases of these spheres which
are wholly outside our realms of experience. You may become creature perfect
even as the Universal Father is deity perfect, but you may not know all the
experiential secrets of all other orders of universe personalities. When the
Creator has an experiential personality secret with his creature, the Creator
preserves that secret in eternal confidence.

All these secrets are supposedly known to the collective body of the Trinitized
Secrets of Supremacy. These beings are fully known only by their special world
groups; they are little comprehended by other orders. After you attain
Paradise, you will know and ardently love the ten Secrets of Supremacy who
direct Ascendington. Excepting Divinington, you will also achieve a partial
understanding of the Secrets of Supremacy on the other worlds of the Father,
though not so perfectly as on Ascendington.

The Trinitized Secrets of Supremacy, as their name might suggest, are related
to the Supreme; they are likewise related to the Ultimate and to the future
Supreme-Ultimate. These Secrets of Supremacy are the secrets of the Supreme and
also the secrets of the Ultimate, even the secrets of the Supreme-Ultimate.

3. THE SACRED WORLDS OF THE ETERNAL SON

The seven luminous spheres of the Eternal Son are the worlds of the seven
phases of pure-spirit existence. These shining orbs are the source of the
threefold light of Paradise and Havona, their influence being largely, but not
wholly, confined to the central universe.

Personality is not present on these Paradise satellites; therefore is there
little concerning these pure-spirit abodes which can be presented to the mortal
and material personality. We are taught that these worlds teem with the
otherwise-than-personal life of the beings of the Eternal Son. We infer that
these entities are being assembled for ministry in the projected new universes
of outer space. The Paradise philosophers maintain that each Paradise cycle,
about two billion years of Urantia time, witnesses the creation of additional
reserves of these orders on the secret worlds of the Eternal Son.

As far as I am informed, no personality has ever been on any one of these
spheres of the Eternal Son. I have never been assigned to visit one of these
worlds in all my long experience in and out of Paradise. Even the personalities
cocreated by the Eternal Son do not go to these worlds. We infer that all types
of impersonal spirits--regardless of parentage--are admitted to these spirit
homes. As I am a person and have a spirit form, no doubt such a world would
seem empty and deserted even if I were permitted to pay it a visit. High spirit
personalities are not given to the gratification of purposeless curiosity,
purely useless adventure. There is at all times altogether too much intriguing
and purposeful adventure to permit the development of any great interest in
those projects which are either futile or unreal.

4. THE WORLDS OF THE INFINITE SPIRIT

Between the inner circuit of Havona and the shining spheres of the Eternal Son
there circle the seven orbs of the Infinite Spirit, worlds inhabited by the

                                top of page - 150

offspring of the Infinite Spirit, by the trinitized sons of glorified created
personalities, and by other types of unrevealed beings concerned with the
effective administration of the many enterprises of the various realms of
universe activities.

The Seven Master Spirits are the supreme and ultimate representatives of the
Infinite Spirit. They maintain their personal stations, their power focuses, on
the periphery of Paradise, but all operations concerned with their management
and direction of the grand universe are conducted on and from these seven
special executive spheres of the Infinite Spirit. The Seven Master Spirits are,
in reality, the mind-spirit balance wheel of the universe of universes, an
all-embracing, all-encompassing, and all-co-ordinating power of central
location.

From these seven special spheres the Master Spirits operate to equalize and
stabilize the cosmic-mind circuits of the grand universe. They also have to do
with the differential spiritual attitude and presence of the Deities throughout
the grand universe. Physical reactions are uniform, unvarying, and always
instantaneous and automatic. But experiential spiritual presence is in
accordance with the underlying conditions or states of spiritual receptivity
inherent in the individual minds of the realms.

Physical authority, presence, and function are unvarying in all the universes,
small or great. The differing factor in spiritual presence, or reaction, is the
fluctuating differential in its recognition and reception by will creatures.
Whereas the spiritual presence of absolute and existential Deity is in no
manner whatever influenced by attitudes of loyalty or disloyalty on the part of
created beings, at the same time it is true that the functioning presence of
subabsolute and experiential Deity is definitely and directly influenced by the
decisions, choices, and will-attitudes of such finite creature beings--by the
loyalty and devotion of the individual being, planet, system, constellation, or
universe. But this spiritual presence of divinity is not whimsical nor
arbitrary; its experiential variance is inherent in the freewill endowment of
personal creatures.

The determiner of the differential of spiritual presence exists in your own
hearts and minds and consists in the manner of your own choosing, in the
decisions of your minds, and in the determination of your own wills. This
differential is inherent in the freewill reactions of intelligent personal
beings, beings whom the Universal Father has ordained shall exercise this
liberty of choosing. And the Deities are ever true to the ebb and flow of their
spirits in meeting and satisfying the conditions and demands of this
differential of creature choice, now bestowing more of their presence in
response to a sincere desire for the same and again withdrawing themselves from
the scene as their creatures decide adversely in the exercise of their divinely
bestowed freedom of choice. And thus does the spirit of divinity become humbly
obedient to the choosing of the creatures of the realms.

The executive abodes of the Seven Master Spirits are, in reality, the Paradise
headquarters of the seven superuniverses and their correlated segments in outer
space. Each Master Spirit presides over one superuniverse, and each of these
seven worlds is exclusively assigned to one of the Master Spirits. There is
literally no phase of the sub-Paradise administration of the seven
superuniverses which is not provided for on these executive worlds. They are
not so exclusive as the spheres of the Father or those of the Son, and though
residential status is limited to native beings and those who work thereon,
these seven administrative planets

                                top of page - 151

are always open to all beings who desire to visit them, and who can command the
necessary means of transit.

To me, these executive worlds are the most interesting and intriguing spots
outside of Paradise. In no other place in the wide universe can one observe
such varied activities, involving so many different orders of living beings,
having to do with operations on so many diverse levels, occupations at once
material, intellectual, and spiritual. When I am accorded a period of release
from assignment, if I chance to be on Paradise or in Havona, I usually proceed
to one of these busy worlds of the Seven Master Spirits, there to inspire my
mind with such spectacles of enterprise, devotion, loyalty, wisdom, and
effectiveness. Nowhere else can I observe such an amazing interassociation of
personality performances on all seven levels of universe reality. And I am
always stimulated by the activities of those who well know how to do their
work, and who so thoroughly enjoy doing it.

[Presented by a Perfector of Wisdom commissioned thus to function by the
Ancients of Days on Uversa.]

                                top of page - 152

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   The Universe   ³    The Central    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Of...       ³      And...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
