            Urantia Book Paper 14 The Central And Divine Universe
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Paper 14 The Central And Divine Universe

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE perfect and divine universe occupies the center of all creation; it is the
eternal core around which the vast creations of time and space revolve.
Paradise is the gigantic nuclear Isle of absolute stability which rests
motionless at the very heart of the magnificent eternal universe. This central
planetary family is called Havona and is far-distant from the local universe of
Nebadon. It is of enormous dimensions and almost unbelievable mass and consists
of one billion spheres of unimagined beauty and superb grandeur, but the true
magnitude of this vast creation is really beyond the understanding grasp of the
human mind.

This is the one and only settled, perfect, and established aggregation of
worlds. This is a wholly created and perfect universe; it is not an
evolutionary development. This is the eternal core of perfection, about which
swirls that endless procession of universes which constitute the tremendous
evolutionary experiment, the audacious adventure of the Creator Sons of God,
who aspire to duplicate in time and to reproduce in space the pattern universe,
the ideal of divine completeness, supreme finality, ultimate reality, and
eternal perfection.

1. THE PARADISE-HAVONA SYSTEM

From the periphery of Paradise to the inner borders of the seven superuniverses
there are the following seven space conditions and motions:

1. The quiescent midspace zones impinging on Paradise.

2. The clockwise processional of the three Paradise and the seven Havona
circuits.

3. The semiquiet space zone separating the Havona circuits from the dark
gravity bodies of the central universe.

4. The inner, counterclockwise-moving belt of the dark gravity bodies.

5. The second unique space zone dividing the two space paths of the dark
gravity bodies.

6. The outer belt of dark gravity bodies, revolving clockwise around Paradise.

7. A third space zone--a semiquiet zone--separating the outer belt of dark
gravity bodies from the innermost circuits of the seven superuniverses.

The billion worlds of Havona are arranged in seven concentric circuits
immediately surrounding the three circuits of Paradise satellites. There are
upwards of thirty-five million worlds in the innermost Havona circuit and over
two hundred and forty-five million in the outermost, with proportionate numbers

                                top of page - 153

intervening. Each circuit differs, but all are perfectly balanced and
exquisitely organized, and each is pervaded by a specialized representation of
the Infinite Spirit, one of the Seven Spirits of the Circuits. In addition to
other functions this impersonal Spirit co-ordinates the conduct of celestial
affairs throughout each circuit.

The Havona planetary circuits are not superimposed; their worlds follow each
other in an orderly linear procession. The central universe whirls around the
stationary Isle of Paradise in one vast plane, consisting of ten concentric
stabilized units--the three circuits of Paradise spheres and the seven circuits
of Havona worlds. Physically regarded, the Havona and the Paradise circuits are
all one and the same system; their separation is in recognition of functional
and administrative segregation.

Time is not reckoned on Paradise; the sequence of successive events is inherent
in the concept of those who are indigenous to the central Isle. But time is
germane to the Havona circuits and to numerous beings of both celestial and
terrestrial origin sojourning thereon. Each Havona world has its own local
time, determined by its circuit. All worlds in a given circuit have the same
length of year since they uniformly swing around Paradise, and the length of
these planetary years decreases from the outermost to the innermost circuit.

Besides Havona-circuit time, there is the Paradise-Havona standard day and
other time designations which are determined on, and are sent out from, the
seven Paradise satellites of the Infinite Spirit. The Paradise-Havona standard
day is based on the length of time required for the planetary abodes of the
first or inner Havona circuit to complete one revolution around the Isle of
Paradise; and though their velocity is enormous, owing to their situation
between the dark gravity bodies and gigantic Paradise, it requires almost one
thousand years for these spheres to complete their circuit. You have
unwittingly read the truth when your eyes rested on the statement "A day is as
a thousand years with God, as but a watch in the night." One Paradise-Havona
day is just seven minutes, three and one-eighth seconds less than one thousand
years of the present Urantia leap-year calendar.

This Paradise-Havona day is the standard time measurement for the seven
superuniverses, although each maintains its own internal time standards.

On the outskirts of this vast central universe, far out beyond the seventh belt
of Havona worlds, there swirl an unbelievable number of enormous dark gravity
bodies. These multitudinous dark masses are quite unlike other space bodies in
many particulars; even in form they are very different. These dark gravity
bodies neither reflect nor absorb light; they are nonreactive to
physical-energy light, and they so completely encircle and enshroud Havona as
to hide it from the view of even near-by inhabited universes of time and space.

The great belt of dark gravity bodies is divided into two equal elliptical
circuits by a unique space intrusion. The inner belt revolves counterclockwise;
the outer revolves clockwise. These alternate directions of motion, coupled
with the extraordinary mass of the dark bodies, so effectively equalize the
lines of Havona gravity as to render the central universe a physically balanced
and perfectly stabilized creation.

The inner procession of dark gravity bodies is tubular in arrangement,
consisting of three circular groupings. A cross section of this circuit would
exhibit three concentric circles of about equal density. The outer circuit of
dark gravity

                                top of page - 154

bodies is arranged perpendicularly, being ten thousand times higher than the
inner circuit. The up-and-down diameter of the outer circuit is fifty thousand
times that of the transverse diameter.

The intervening space which exists between these two circuits of gravity bodies
is unique in that nothing like it is to be found elsewhere in all the wide
universe. This zone is characterized by enormous wave movements of an
up-and-down nature and is permeated by tremendous energy activities of an
unknown order.

In our opinion, nothing like the dark gravity bodies of the central universe
will characterize the future evolution of the outer space levels; we regard
these alternate processions of stupendous gravity-balancing bodies as unique in
the master universe.

2. CONSTITUTION OF HAVONA

Spirit beings do not dwell in nebulous space; they do not inhabit ethereal
worlds; they are domiciled on actual spheres of a material nature, worlds just
as real as those on which mortals live. The Havona worlds are actual and
literal, albeit their literal substance differs from the material organization
of the planets of the seven superuniverses.

The physical realities of Havona represent an order of energy organization
radically different from any prevailing in the evolutionary universes of space.
Havona energies are threefold; superuniverse units of energy-matter contain a
twofold energy charge, although one form of energy exists in negative and
positive phases. The creation of the central universe is threefold (Trinity);
the creation of a local universe (directly) is twofold, by a Creator Son and a
Creative Spirit.

The material of Havona consists of the organization of exactly one thousand
basic chemical elements and the balanced function of the seven forms of Havona
energy. Each of these basic energies manifests seven phases of excitation, so
that the Havona natives respond to forty-nine differing sensation stimuli. In
other words, viewed from a purely physical standpoint, the natives of the
central universe possess forty-nine specialized forms of sensation. The
morontia senses are seventy, and the higher spiritual orders of reaction
response vary in different types of beings from seventy to two hundred and ten.

None of the physical beings of the central universe would be visible to
Urantians. Neither would any of the physical stimuli of those faraway worlds
excite a reaction in your gross sense organs. If a Urantia mortal could be
transported to Havona, he would there be deaf, blind, and utterly lacking in
all other sense reactions; he could only function as a limited self-conscious
being deprived of all environmental stimuli and all reactions thereto.

There are numerous physical phenomena and spiritual reactions transpiring in
the central creation which are unknown on worlds such as Urantia. The basic
organization of a threefold creation is wholly unlike that of the twofold
constitution of the created universes of time and space.

All natural law is co-ordinated on a basis entirely different than in the
dual-energy systems of the evolving creations. The entire central universe is
organized in accordance with the threefold system of perfect and symmetrical
control. Throughout the whole Paradise-Havona system there is maintained a
perfect

                                top of page - 155

balance between all cosmic realities and all spiritual forces. Paradise, with
an absolute grasp of material creation, perfectly regulates and maintains the
physical energies of this central universe; the Eternal Son, as a part of his
all-embracing spirit grasp, most perfectly sustains the spiritual status of all
who indwell Havona. On Paradise nothing is experimental, and the
Paradise-Havona system is a unit of creative perfection.

The universal spiritual gravity of the Eternal Son is amazingly active
throughout the central universe. All spirit values and spiritual personalities
are unceasingly drawn inward towards the abode of the Gods. This Godward urge
is intense and inescapable. The ambition to attain God is stronger in the
central universe, not because spirit gravity is stronger than in the outlying
universes, but because those beings who have attained Havona are more fully
spiritualized and hence more responsive to the ever-present action of the
universal spirit-gravity pull of the Eternal Son.

Likewise does the Infinite Spirit draw all intellectual values Paradiseward.
Throughout the central universe the mind gravity of the Infinite Spirit
functions in liaison with the spirit gravity of the Eternal Son, and these
together constitute the combined urge of the ascendant souls to find God, to
attain Deity, to achieve Paradise, and to know the Father.

Havona is a spiritually perfect and physically stable universe. The control and
balanced stability of the central universe appear to be perfect. Everything
physical or spiritual is perfectly predictable, but mind phenomena and
personality volition are not. We do infer that sin can be reckoned as
impossible of occurrence, but we do this on the ground that the native freewill
creatures of Havona have never been guilty of transgressing the will of Deity.
Through all eternity these supernal beings have been consistently loyal to the
Eternals of Days. Neither has sin appeared in any creature who has entered
Havona as a pilgrim. There has never been an instance of misconduct by any
creature of any group of personalities ever created in, or admitted to, the
central Havona universe. So perfect and so divine are the methods and means of
selection in the universes of time that never in the records of Havona has an
error occurred; no mistakes have ever been made; no ascendant soul has ever
been prematurely admitted to the central universe.

3. THE HAVONA WORLDS

Concerning the government of the central universe, there is none. Havona is so
exquisitely perfect that no intellectual system of government is required.
There are no regularly constituted courts, neither are there legislative
assemblies; Havona requires only administrative direction. Here may be observed
the height of the ideals of true self-government.

There is no need of government among such perfect and near-perfect
intelligences. They stand in no need of regulation, for they are beings of
native perfection interspersed with evolutionary creatures who have long since
passed the scrutiny of the supreme tribunals of the superuniverses.

The administration of Havona is not automatic, but it is marvelously perfect
and divinely efficient. It is chiefly planetary and is vested in the resident
Eternal of Days, each Havona sphere being directed by one of these
Trinity-origin personalities. Eternals of Days are not creators, but they are
perfect administrators.

                                top of page - 156

They teach with supreme skill and direct their planetary children with a
perfection of wisdom bordering on absoluteness.

The billion spheres of the central universe constitute the training worlds of
the high personalities native to Paradise and Havona and further serve as the
final proving grounds for ascending creatures from the evolutionary worlds of
time. In the execution of the Universal Father's great plan of creature
ascension the pilgrims of time are landed on the receiving worlds of the outer
or seventh circuit, and subsequent to increased training and enlarged
experience, they are progressively advanced inward, planet by planet and circle
by circle, until they finally attain the Deities and achieve residence on
Paradise.

At present, although the spheres of the seven circuits are maintained in all
their supernal glory, only about one per cent of all planetary capacity is
utilized in the work of furthering the Father's universal plan of mortal
ascension. About one tenth of one per cent of the area of these enormous worlds
is dedicated to the life and activities of the Corps of the Finality, beings
eternally settled in light and life who often sojourn and minister on the
Havona worlds. These exalted beings have their personal residences on Paradise.

The planetary construction of the Havona spheres is entirely unlike that of the
evolutionary worlds and systems of space. Nowhere else in all the grand
universe is it convenient to utilize such enormous spheres as inhabited worlds.
Triata physical constitution, coupled with the balancing effect of the immense
dark gravity bodies, makes it possible so perfectly to equalize the physical
forces and so exquisitely to balance the various attractions of this tremendous
creation. Antigravity is also employed in the organization of the material
functions and the spiritual activities of these enormous worlds.

The architecture, lighting, and heating, as well as the biologic and artistic
embellishment, of the Havona spheres, are quite beyond the greatest possible
stretch of human imagination. You cannot be told much about Havona; to
understand its beauty and grandeur you must see it. But there are real rivers
and lakes on these perfect worlds.

Spiritually these worlds are ideally appointed; they are fittingly adapted to
their purpose of harboring the numerous orders of differing beings who function
in the central universe. Manifold activities take place on these beautiful
worlds which are far beyond human comprehension.

4. CREATURES OF THE CENTRAL UNIVERSE

There are seven basic forms of living things and beings on the Havona worlds,
and each of these basic forms exists in three distinct phases. Each of these
three phases is divided into seventy major divisions, and each major division
is composed of one thousand minor divisions, with yet other subdivisions, and
so on. These basic life groups might be classified as:

1. Material.

2. Morontial.

3. Spiritual.

4. Absonite.

5. Ultimate.

6. Coabsolute.

7. Absolute.

                                top of page - 157

Decay and death are not a part of the cycle of life on the Havona worlds. In
the central universe the lower living things undergo the transmutation of
materialization. They do change form and manifestation, but they do not resolve
by process of decay and cellular death.

The Havona natives are all the offspring of the Paradise Trinity. They are
without creature parents, and they are nonreproducing beings. We cannot portray
the creation of these citizens of the central universe, beings who never were
created. The entire story of the creation of Havona is an attempt to time-space
an eternity fact which has no relation to time or space as mortal man
comprehends them. But we must concede human philosophy a point of origin; even
personalities far above the human level require a concept of "beginnings."
Nevertheless, the Paradise-Havona system is eternal.

The natives of Havona live on the billion spheres of the central universe in
the same sense that other orders of permanent citizenship dwell on their
respective spheres of nativity. As the material order of sonship carries on the
material, intellectual, and spiritual economy of a billion local systems in a
superuniverse, so, in a larger sense, do the Havona natives live and function
on the billion worlds of the central universe. You might possibly regard these
Havoners as material creatures in the sense that the word "material" could be
expanded to describe the physical realities of the divine universe.

There is a life that is native to Havona and possesses significance in and of
itself. Havoners minister in many ways to Paradise descenders and to
superuniverse ascenders, but they also live lives that are unique in the
central universe and have relative meaning quite apart from either Paradise or
the superuniverses.

As the worship of the faith sons of the evolutionary worlds ministers to the
satisfaction of the Universal Father's love, so the exalted adoration of the
Havona creatures satiates the perfect ideals of divine beauty and truth. As
mortal man strives to do the will of God, these beings of the central universe
live to gratify the ideals of the Paradise Trinity. In their very nature they
are the will of God. Man rejoices in the goodness of God, Havoners exult in the
divine beauty, while you both enjoy the ministry of the liberty of living
truth.

Havoners have both optional present and future unrevealed destinies. And there
is a progression of native creatures that is peculiar to the central universe,
a progression that involves neither ascent to Paradise nor penetration of the
superuniverses. This progression to higher Havona status may be suggested as
follows:

1. Experiential progress outward from the first to the seventh circuit.

2. Progress inward from the seventh to the first circuit.

3. Intracircuit progress--progression within the worlds of a given circuit.

In addition to the Havona natives, the inhabitants of the central universe
embrace numerous classes of pattern beings for various universe
groups--advisers, directors, and teachers of their kind and to their kind
throughout creation. All beings in all universes are fashioned along the lines
of some one order of pattern creature living on some one of the billion worlds
of Havona. Even the mortals of time have their goal and ideals of creature
existence on the outer circuits of these pattern spheres on high.

Then there are those beings who have attained the Universal Father, and who are
entitled to go and come, who are assigned here and there in the universes on

                                top of page - 158

missions of special service. And on every Havona world will be found the
attainment candidates, those who have physically attained the central universe,
but who have not yet achieved that spiritual development which will enable them
to claim Paradise residence.

The Infinite Spirit is represented on the Havona worlds by a host of
personalities, beings of grace and glory, who administer the details of the
intricate intellectual and spiritual affairs of the central universe. On these
worlds of divine perfection they perform the work indigenous to the normal
conduct of this vast creation and, in addition, carry on the manifold tasks of
teaching, training, and ministering to the enormous numbers of ascendant
creatures who have climbed to glory from the dark worlds of space.

There are numerous groups of beings native to the Paradise-Havona system that
are in no way directly associated with the ascension scheme of creature
perfection attainment; therefore are they omitted from the personality
classifications presented to the mortal races. Only the major groups of
superhuman beings and those orders directly connected with your survival
experience are herein presented.

Havona teems with the life of all phases of intelligent beings, who there seek
to advance from lower to higher circuits in their efforts to attain higher
levels of divinity realization and enlarged appreciation of supreme meanings,
ultimate values, and absolute reality.

5. LIFE IN HAVONA

On Urantia you pass through a short and intense test during your initial life
of material existence. On the mansion worlds and up through your system,
constellation, and local universe, you traverse the morontia phases of
ascension. On the training worlds of the superuniverse you pass through the
true spirit stages of progression and are prepared for eventual transit to
Havona. On the seven circuits of Havona your attainment is intellectual,
spiritual, and experiential. And there is a definite task to be achieved on
each of the worlds of each of these circuits.

Life on the divine worlds of the central universe is so rich and full, so
complete and replete, that it wholly transcends the human concept of anything a
created being could possibly experience. The social and economic activities of
this eternal creation are entirely dissimilar to the occupations of material
creatures living on evolutionary worlds like Urantia. Even the technique of
Havona thought is unlike the process of thinking on Urantia.

The regulations of the central universe are fittingly and inherently natural;
the rules of conduct are not arbitrary. In every requirement of Havona there is
disclosed the reason of righteousness and the rule of justice. And these two
factors, combined, equal what on Urantia would be denominated fairness. When
you arrive in Havona, you will naturally enjoy doing things the way they should
be done.

When intelligent beings first attain the central universe, they are received
and domiciled on the pilot world of the seventh Havona circuit. As the new
arrivals progress spiritually, attain identity comprehension of their
superuniverse Master Spirit, they are transferred to the sixth circle. (It is
from these arrangements in the central universe that the circles of progress in
the human mind have been

                                top of page - 159

designated.) After ascenders have attained a realization of Supremacy and are
thereby prepared for the Deity adventure, they are taken to the fifth circuit;
and after attaining the Infinite Spirit, they are transferred to the fourth.
Following the attainment of the Eternal Son, they are removed to the third; and
when they have recognized the Universal Father, they go to sojourn on the
second circuit of worlds, where they become more familiar with the Paradise
hosts. Arrival on the first circuit of Havona signifies the acceptance of the
candidates of time into the service of Paradise. Indefinitely, according to the
length and nature of the creature ascension, they will tarry on the inner
circuit of progressive spiritual attainment. From this inner circuit the
ascending pilgrims pass inward to Paradise residence and admission to the Corps
of the Finality.

During your sojourn in Havona as a pilgrim of ascent, you will be allowed to
visit freely among the worlds of the circuit of your assignment. You will also
be permitted to go back to the planets of those circuits you have previously
traversed. And all this is possible to those who sojourn on the circles of
Havona without the necessity of being ensupernaphimed. The pilgrims of time are
able to equip themselves to traverse "achieved" space but must depend on the
ordained technique to negotiate "unachieved" space; a pilgrim cannot leave
Havona nor go forward beyond his assigned circuit without the aid of a
transport supernaphim.

There is a refreshing originality about this vast central creation. Aside from
the physical organization of matter and the fundamental constitution of the
basic orders of intelligent beings and other living things, there is nothing in
common between the worlds of Havona. Every one of these planets is an original,
unique, and exclusive creation; each planet is a matchless, superb, and perfect
production. And this diversity of individuality extends to all features of the
physical, intellectual, and spiritual aspects of planetary existence. Each of
these billion perfection spheres has been developed and embellished in
accordance with the plans of the resident Eternal of Days. And this is just why
no two of them are alike.

Not until you traverse the last of the Havona circuits and visit the last of
the Havona worlds, will the tonic of adventure and the stimulus of curiosity
disappear from your career. And then will the urge, the forward impulse of
eternity, replace its forerunner, the adventure lure of time.

Monotony is indicative of immaturity of the creative imagination and inactivity
of intellectual co-ordination with the spiritual endowment. By the time an
ascendant mortal begins the exploration of these heavenly worlds, he has
already attained emotional, intellectual, and social, if not spiritual,
maturity.

Not only will you find undreamed-of changes confronting you as you advance from
circuit to circuit in Havona, but your astonishment will be inexpressible as
you progress from planet to planet within each circuit. Each of these billion
study worlds is a veritable university of surprises. Continuing astonishment,
unending wonder, is the experience of those who traverse these circuits and
tour these gigantic spheres. Monotony is not a part of the Havona career.

Love of adventure, curiosity, and dread of monotony--these traits inherent in
evolving human nature--were not put there just to aggravate and annoy you
during your short sojourn on earth, but rather to suggest to you that death is
only the beginning of an endless career of adventure, an everlasting life of
anticipation, an eternal voyage of discovery.

                                top of page - 160

Curiosity--the spirit of investigation, the urge of discovery, the drive of
exploration--is a part of the inborn and divine endowment of evolutionary space
creatures. These natural impulses were not given you merely to be frustrated
and repressed. True, these ambitious urges must frequently be restrained during
your short life on earth, disappointment must be often experienced, but they
are to be fully realized and gloriously gratified during the long ages to come.

6. THE PURPOSE OF THE CENTRAL UNIVERSE

The range of the activities of seven-circuited Havona is enormous. In general,
they may be described as:

1. Havonal.

2. Paradisiacal.

3. Ascendant-finite--Supreme-Ultimate evolutional.

Many superfinite activities take place in the Havona of the present universe
age, involving untold diversities of absonite and other phases of mind and
spirit functions. It is possible that the central universe serves many purposes
which are not revealed to me, as it functions in numerous ways beyond the
comprehension of the created mind. Nevertheless, I will endeavor to depict how
this perfect creation ministers to the needs and contributes to the
satisfactions of seven orders of universe intelligence.

1. The Universal Father--the First Source and Center. God the Father derives
supreme parental satisfaction from the perfection of the central creation. He
enjoys the experience of love satiety on near-equality levels. The perfect
Creator is divinely pleased with the adoration of the perfect creature.

Havona affords the Father supreme achievement gratification. The perfection
realization in Havona compensates for the time-space delay of the eternal urge
of infinite expansion.

The Father enjoys the Havona reciprocation of the divine beauty. It satisfies
the divine mind to afford a perfect pattern of exquisite harmony for all
evolving universes.

Our Father beholds the central universe with perfect pleasure because it is a
worthy revelation of spirit reality to all personalities of the universe of
universes.

The God of universes has favorable regard for Havona and Paradise as the
eternal power nucleus for all subsequent universe expansion in time and space.

The eternal Father views with never-ending satisfaction the Havona creation as
the worthy and alluring goal for the ascension candidates of time, his mortal
grandchildren of space achieving their Creator-Father's eternal home. And God
takes pleasure in the Paradise-Havona universe as the eternal home of Deity and
the divine family.

2. The Eternal Son--the Second Source and Center. To the Eternal Son the superb
central creation affords eternal proof of the partnership effectiveness of the
divine family--Father, Son, and Spirit. It is the spiritual and material basis
for absolute confidence in the Universal Father.

Havona affords the Eternal Son an almost unlimited base for the ever-expanding
realization of spirit power. The central universe afforded the Eternal Son the
arena wherein he could safely and securely demonstrate the spirit and

                                top of page - 161

technique of the bestowal ministry for the instruction of his associate
Paradise Sons.

Havona is the reality foundation for the Eternal Son's spirit-gravity control
of the universe of universes. This universe affords the Son the gratification
of parental craving, spiritual reproduction.

The Havona worlds and their perfect inhabitants are the first and the eternally
final demonstration that the Son is the Word of the Father. Thereby is the
consciousness of the Son as an infinite complement of the Father perfectly
gratified.

And this universe affords the opportunity for the realization of reciprocation
of equality fraternity between the Universal Father and the Eternal Son, and
this constitutes the everlasting proof of the infinite personality of each.

3. The Infinite Spirit--the Third Source and Center. The Havona universe
affords the Infinite Spirit proof of being the Conjoint Actor, the infinite
representative of the unified Father-Son. In Havona the Infinite Spirit derives
the combined satisfaction of functioning as a creative activity while enjoying
the satisfaction of absolute coexistence with this divine achievement.

In Havona the Infinite Spirit found an arena wherein he could demonstrate the
ability and willingness to serve as a potential mercy minister. In this perfect
creation the Spirit rehearsed for the adventure of ministry in the evolutionary
universes.

This perfect creation afforded the Infinite Spirit opportunity to participate
in universe administration with both divine parents--to administer a universe
as associate-Creator offspring, thereby preparing for the joint administration
of the local universes as the Creative Spirit associates of the Creator Sons.

The Havona worlds are the mind laboratory of the creators of the cosmic mind
and the ministers to every creature mind in existence. Mind is different on
each Havona world and serves as the pattern for all spiritual and material
creature intellects.

These perfect worlds are the mind graduate schools for all beings destined for
Paradise society. They afforded the Spirit abundant opportunity to test out the
technique of mind ministry on safe and advisory personalities.

Havona is a compensation to the Infinite Spirit for his widespread and
unselfish work in the universes of space. Havona is the perfect home and
retreat for the untiring Mind Minister of time and space.

4. The Supreme Being--the evolutionary unification of experiential Deity. The
Havona creation is the eternal and perfect proof of the spiritual reality of
the Supreme Being. This perfect creation is a revelation of the perfect and
symmetrical spirit nature of God the Supreme before the beginnings of the
power-personality synthesis of the finite reflections of the Paradise Deities
in the experiential universes of time and space.

In Havona the power potentials of the Almighty are unified with the spiritual
nature of the Supreme. This central creation is an exemplification of the
future-eternal unity of the Supreme.

Havona is a perfect pattern of the universality potential of the Supreme. This
universe is a finished portrayal of the future perfection of the Supreme and is
suggestive of the potential of the Ultimate.

                                top of page - 162

Havona exhibits finality of spirit values existing as living will creatures of
supreme and perfect self-control; mind existing as ultimately equivalent to
spirit; reality and unity of intelligence with an unlimited potential.

5. The Co-ordinate Creator Sons. Havona is the educational training ground
where the Paradise Michaels are prepared for their subsequent adventures in
universe creation. This divine and perfect creation is a pattern for every
Creator Son. He strives to make his own universe eventually attain to these
Paradise-Havona levels of perfection.

A Creator Son uses the creatures of Havona as personality-pattern possibilities
for his own mortal children and spirit beings. The Michael and other Paradise
Sons view Paradise and Havona as the divine destiny of the children of time.

The Creator Sons know that the central creation is the real source of that
indispensable universe overcontrol which stabilizes and unifies their local
universes. They know that the personal presence of the ever-present influence
of the Supreme and of the Ultimate is in Havona.

Havona and Paradise are the source of a Michael Son's creative power. Here
dwell the beings who co-operate with him in universe creation. From Paradise
come the Universe Mother Spirits, the cocreators of local universes.

The Paradise Sons regard the central creation as the home of their divine
parents--their home. It is the place they enjoy returning to ever and anon.

6. The Co-ordinate Ministering Daughters. The Universe Mother Spirits,
cocreators of the local universes, secure their prepersonal training on the
worlds of Havona in close association with the Spirits of the Circuits. In the
central universe the Spirit Daughters of the local universes were duly trained
in the methods of co-operation with the Sons of Paradise, all the while subject
to the will of the Father.

On the worlds of Havona the Spirit and the Daughters of the Spirit find the
mind patterns for all their groups of spiritual and material intelligences, and
this central universe is the sometime destiny of those creatures which a
Universe Mother Spirit jointly sponsors with an associated Creator Son.

The Universe Mother Creator remembers Paradise and Havona as the place of her
origin and the home of the Infinite Mother Spirit, the abode of the personality
presence of the Infinite Mind.

From this central universe also came the bestowal of the personal prerogatives
of creatorship which a Universe Divine Minister employs as complemental to a
Creator Son in the work of creating living will creatures.

And lastly, since these Daughter Spirits of the Infinite Mother Spirit will not
likely ever return to their Paradise home, they derive great satisfaction from
the universal reflectivity phenomenon associated with the Supreme Being in
Havona and personalized in Majeston on Paradise.

7. The Evolutionary Mortals of the Ascending Career. Havona is the home of the
pattern personality of every mortal type and the home of all superhuman
personalities of mortal association who are not native to the creations of
time.

These worlds provide the stimulus of all human impulses towards the attainment
of true spirit values on the highest conceivable reality levels. Havona is the
pre-Paradise training goal of every ascending mortal. Here mortals attain
pre-Paradise Deity--the Supreme Being. Havona stands before every will creature
as the portal to Paradise and God attainment.

                                top of page - 163

Paradise is the home, and Havona the workshop and playground, of the
finaliters. And every God-knowing mortal craves to be a finaliter.

The central universe is not only man's established destiny, but it is also the
starting place of the eternal career of the finaliters as they shall sometime
be started out on the undisclosed and universal adventure in the experience of
exploring the infinity of the Universal Father.

Havona will unquestionably continue to function with absonite significance even
in future universe ages which may witness space pilgrims attempting to find God
on superfinite levels. Havona has capacity to serve as a training universe for
absonite beings. It will probably be the finishing school when the seven
superuniverses are functioning as the intermediate school for the graduates of
the primary schools of outer space. And we incline to the opinion that the
potentials of eternal Havona are really unlimited, that the central universe
has eternal capacity to serve as an experiential training universe for all
past, present, or future types of created beings.

[Presented by a Perfector of Wisdom commissioned thus to function by the
Ancients of Days on Uversa.]

                                top of page - 164

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³    The Sacred    ³     The Seven     ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³     Sphe...      ³     Super...      ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
