                Urantia Book Paper 15 The Seven SuperUniverses
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Paper 15 The Seven SuperUniverses

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

AS FAR as the Universal Father is concerned--as a Father--the universes are
virtually nonexistent; he deals with personalities; he is the Father of
personalities. As far as the Eternal Son and the Infinite Spirit are
concerned--as creator partners--the universes are localized and individual
under the joint rule of the Creator Sons and the Creative Spirits. As far as
the Paradise Trinity is concerned, outside Havona there are just seven
inhabited universes, the seven superuniverses which hold jurisdiction over the
circle of the first post-Havona space level. The Seven Master Spirits radiate
their influence out from the central Isle, thus constituting the vast creation
one gigantic wheel, the hub being the eternal Isle of Paradise, the seven
spokes the radiations of the Seven Master Spirits, the rim the outer regions of
the grand universe.

Early in the materialization of the universal creation the sevenfold scheme of
the superuniverse organization and government was formulated. The first
post-Havona creation was divided into seven stupendous segments, and the
headquarters worlds of these superuniverse governments were designed and
constructed. The present scheme of administration has existed from near
eternity, and the rulers of these seven superuniverses are rightly called
Ancients of Days.

Of the vast body of knowledge concerning the superuniverses, I can hope to tell
you little, but there is operative throughout these realms a technique of
intelligent control for both physical and spiritual forces, and the universal
gravity presences there function in majestic power and perfect harmony. It is
important first to gain an adequate idea of the physical constitution and
material organization of the superuniverse domains, for then you will be the
better prepared to grasp the significance of the marvelous organization
provided for their spiritual government and for the intellectual advancement of
the will creatures who dwell on the myriads of inhabited planets scattered
hither and yon throughout these seven superuniverses.

1. THE SUPERUNIVERSE SPACE LEVEL

Within the limited range of the records, observations, and memories of the
generations of a million or a billion of your short years, to all practical
intents and purposes, Urantia and the universe to which it belongs are
experiencing the adventure of one long and uncharted plunge into new space; but
according to the records of Uversa, in accordance with older observations, in
harmony with the more extensive experience and calculations of our order, and
as a result of conclusions based on these and other findings, we know that the
universes are engaged in an orderly, well-understood, and perfectly controlled
processional, swinging in majestic grandeur around the First Great Source and
Center and his residential universe.

                                top of page - 165

We have long since discovered that the seven superuniverses traverse a great
ellipse, a gigantic and elongated circle. Your solar system and other worlds of
time are not plunging headlong, without chart and compass, into unmapped space.
The local universe to which your system belongs is pursuing a definite and
well-understood counterclockwise course around the vast swing that encircles
the central universe. This cosmic path is well charted and is just as
thoroughly known to the superuniverse star observers as the orbits of the
planets constituting your solar system are known to Urantia astronomers.

Urantia is situated in a local universe and a superuniverse not fully
organized, and your local universe is in immediate proximity to numerous
partially completed physical creations. You belong to one of the relatively
recent universes. But you are not, today, plunging on wildly into uncharted
space nor swinging out blindly into unknown regions. You are following the
orderly and predetermined path of the superuniverse space level. You are now
passing through the very same space that your planetary system, or its
predecessors, traversed ages ago; and some day in the remote future your
system, or its successors, will again traverse the identical space through
which you are now so swiftly plunging.

In this age and as direction is regarded on Urantia, superuniverse number one
swings almost due north, approximately opposite, in an easterly direction, to
the Paradise residence of the Great Sources and Centers and the central
universe of Havona. This position, with the corresponding one to the west,
represents the nearest physical approach of the spheres of time to the eternal
Isle. Superuniverse number two is in the north, preparing for the westward
swing, while number three now holds the northernmost segment of the great space
path, having already turned into the bend leading to the southerly plunge.
Number four is on the comparatively straightaway southerly flight, the advance
regions now approaching opposition to the Great Centers. Number five has about
left its position opposite the Center of Centers while continuing on the direct
southerly course just preceding the eastward swing; number six occupies most of
the southern curve, the segment from which your superuniverse has nearly
passed.

Your local universe of Nebadon belongs to Orvonton, the seventh superuniverse,
which swings on between superuniverses one and six, having not long since (as
we reckon time) turned the southeastern bend of the superuniverse space level.
Today, the solar system to which Urantia belongs is a few billion years past
the swing around the southern curvature so that you are just now advancing
beyond the southeastern bend and are moving swiftly through the long and
comparatively straightaway northern path. For untold ages Orvonton will pursue
this almost direct northerly course.

Urantia belongs to a system which is well out towards the borderland of your
local universe; and your local universe is at present traversing the periphery
of Orvonton. Beyond you there are still others, but you are far removed in
space from those physical systems which swing around the great circle in
comparative proximity to the Great Source and Center.

2. ORGANIZATION OF THE SUPERUNIVERSES

Only the Universal Father knows the location and actual number of inhabited
worlds in space; he calls them all by name and number. I can give only

                                top of page - 166

the approximate number of inhabited or inhabitable planets, for some local
universes have more worlds suitable for intelligent life than others. Nor have
all projected local universes been organized. Therefore the estimates which I
offer are solely for the purpose of affording some idea of the immensity of the
material creation.

There are seven superuniverses in the grand universe, and they are constituted
approximately as follows:

1. The System. The basic unit of the supergovernment consists of about one
thousand inhabited or inhabitable worlds. Blazing suns, cold worlds, planets
too near the hot suns, and other spheres not suitable for creature habitation
are not included in this group. These one thousand worlds adapted to support
life are called a system, but in the younger systems only a comparatively small
number of these worlds may be inhabited. Each inhabited planet is presided over
by a Planetary Prince, and each local system has an architectural sphere as its
headquarters and is ruled by a System Sovereign.

2. The Constellation. One hundred systems (about 100,000 inhabitable planets)
make up a constellation. Each constellation has an architectural headquarters
sphere and is presided over by three Vorondadek Sons, the Most Highs. Each
constellation also has a Faithful of Days in observation, an ambassador of the
Paradise Trinity.

3. The Local Universe. One hundred constellations (about 10,000,000 inhabitable
planets) constitute a local universe. Each local universe has a magnificent
architectural headquarters world and is ruled by one of the co-ordinate Creator
Sons of God of the order of Michael. Each universe is blessed by the presence
of a Union of Days, a representative of the Paradise Trinity.

4. The Minor Sector. One hundred local universes (about 1,000,000,000
inhabitable planets) constitute a minor sector of the superuniverse government;
it has a wonderful headquarters world, wherefrom its rulers, the Recents of
Days, administer the affairs of the minor sector. There are three Recents of
Days, Supreme Trinity Personalities, on each minor sector headquarters.

5. The Major Sector. One hundred minor sectors (about 100,000,000,000
inhabitable worlds) make one major sector. Each major sector is provided with a
superb headquarters and is presided over by three Perfections of Days, Supreme
Trinity Personalities.

6. The Superuniverse. Ten major sectors (about 1,000,000,000,000 inhabitable
planets) constitute a superuniverse. Each superuniverse is provided with an
enormous and glorious headquarters world and is ruled by three Ancients of
Days.

7. The Grand Universe. Seven superuniverses make up the present organized grand
universe, consisting of approximately seven trillion inhabitable worlds plus
the architectural spheres and the one billion inhabited spheres of Havona. The
superuniverses are ruled and administered indirectly and reflectively from
Paradise by the Seven Master Spirits. The billion worlds of Havona are directly
administered by the Eternals of Days, one such Supreme Trinity Personality
presiding over each of these perfect spheres.

                                top of page - 167

Excluding the Paradise-Havona spheres, the plan of universe organization
provides for the following units:

Superuniverses ..........................................7

Major sectors ..........................................70

Minor sectors .......................................7,000

Local universes ...................................700,000

Constellations .................................70,000,000

Local systems ...............................7,000,000,000

Inhabitable planets .....................7,000,000,000,000

Each of the seven superuniverses is constituted, approximately, as follows:

One system embraces, approximately ................1,000 worlds

One constellation (100 systems) .................100,000 worlds

One universe (100 constellations) ............10,000,000 worlds

One minor sector (100 universes)...........1,000,000,000 worlds

One major sector (100 minor sectors) ....100,000,000,000 worlds

One superuniverse (10 major sectors)...1,000,000,000,000 worlds

All such estimates are approximations at best, for new systems are constantly
evolving while other organizations are temporarily passing out of material
existence.

3. THE SUPERUNIVERSE OF ORVONTON

Practically all of the starry realms visible to the naked eye on Urantia belong
to the seventh section of the grand universe, the superuniverse of Orvonton.
The vast Milky Way starry system represents the central nucleus of Orvonton,
being largely beyond the borders of your local universe. This great aggregation
of suns, dark islands of space, double stars, globular clusters, star clouds,
spiral and other nebulae, together with myriads of individual planets, forms a
watchlike, elongated-circular grouping of about one seventh of the inhabited
evolutionary universes.

From the astronomical position of Urantia, as you look through the cross
section of near-by systems to the great Milky Way, you observe that the spheres
of Orvonton are traveling in a vast elongated plane, the breadth being far
greater than the thickness and the length far greater than the breadth.

Observation of the so-called Milky Way discloses the comparative increase in
Orvonton stellar density when the heavens are viewed in one direction, while on
either side the density diminishes; the number of stars and other spheres
decreases away from the chief plane of our material superuniverse. When the
angle of observation is propitious, gazing through the main body of this realm
of maximum density, you are looking toward the residential universe and the
center of all things.

Of the ten major divisions of Orvonton, eight have been roughly identified by
Urantian astronomers. The other two are difficult of separate recognition
because you are obliged to view these phenomena from the inside. If you could
look upon the superuniverse of Orvonton from a position far-distant in space,
you would immediately recognize the ten major sectors of the seventh galaxy.

                                top of page - 168

The rotational center of your minor sector is situated far away in the enormous
and dense star cloud of Sagittarius, around which your local universe and its
associated creations all move, and from opposite sides of the vast Sagittarius
subgalactic system you may observe two great streams of star clouds emerging in
stupendous stellar coils.

The nucleus of the physical system to which your sun and its associated planets
belong is the center of the onetime Andronover nebula. This former spiral
nebula was slightly distorted by the gravity disruptions associated with the
events which were attendant upon the birth of your solar system, and which were
occasioned by the near approach of a large neighboring nebula. This near
collision changed Andronover into a somewhat globular aggregation but did not
wholly destroy the two-way procession of the suns and their associated physical
groups. Your solar system now occupies a fairly central position in one of the
arms of this distorted spiral, situated about halfway from the center out
towards the edge of the star stream.

The Sagittarius sector and all other sectors and divisions of Orvonton are in
rotation around Uversa, and some of the confusion of Urantian star observers
arises out of the illusions and relative distortions produced by the following
multiple revolutionary movements:

1. The revolution of Urantia around its sun.

2. The circuit of your solar system about the nucleus of the former Andronover
nebula.

3. The rotation of the Andronover stellar family and the associated clusters
about the composite rotation-gravity center of the star cloud of Nebadon.

4. The swing of the local star cloud of Nebadon and its associated creations
around the Sagittarius center of their minor sector.

5. The rotation of the one hundred minor sectors, including Sagittarius, about
their major sector.

6. The whirl of the ten major sectors, the so-called star drifts, about the
Uversa headquarters of Orvonton.

7. The movement of Orvonton and six associated superuniverses around Paradise
and Havona, the counterclockwise processional of the superuniverse space level.

These multiple motions are of several orders: The space paths of your planet
and your solar system are genetic, inherent in origin. The absolute
counterclockwise motion of Orvonton is also genetic, inherent in the
architectural plans of the master universe. But the intervening motions are of
composite origin, being derived in part from the constitutive segmentation of
matter-energy into the superuniverses and in part produced by the intelligent
and purposeful action of the Paradise force organizers.

The local universes are in closer proximity as they approach Havona; the
circuits are greater in number, and there is increased superimposition, layer
upon layer. But farther out from the eternal center there are fewer and fewer
systems, layers, circuits, and universes.

                                top of page - 169

4. NEBULAE--THE ANCESTORS OF UNIVERSES

While creation and universe organization remain forever under the control of
the infinite Creators and their associates, the whole phenomenon proceeds in
accordance with an ordained technique and in conformity to the gravity laws of
force, energy, and matter. But there is something of mystery associated with
the universal force-charge of space; we quite understand the organization of
the material creations from the ultimatonic stage forward, but we do not fully
comprehend the cosmic ancestry of the ultimatons. We are confident that these
ancestral forces have a Paradise origin because they forever swing through
pervaded space in the exact gigantic outlines of Paradise. Though nonresponsive
to Paradise gravity, this force-charge of space, the ancestor of all
materialization, does always respond to the presence of nether Paradise, being
apparently circuited in and out of the nether Paradise center.

The Paradise force organizers transmute space potency into primordial force and
evolve this prematerial potential into the primary and secondary energy
manifestations of physical reality. When this energy attains gravity-responding
levels, the power directors and their associates of the superuniverse regime
appear upon the scene and begin their never-ending manipulations designed to
establish the manifold power circuits and energy channels of the universes of
time and space. Thus does physical matter appear in space, and so is the stage
set for the inauguration of universe organization.

This segmentation of energy is a phenomenon which has never been solved by the
physicists of Nebadon. Their chief difficulty lies in the relative
inaccessibility of the Paradise force organizers, for the living power
directors, though they are competent to deal with space-energy, do not have the
least conception of the origin of the energies they so skillfully and
intelligently manipulate.

Paradise force organizers are nebulae originators; they are able to initiate
about their space presence the tremendous cyclones of force which, when once
started, can never be stopped or limited until the all-pervading forces are
mobilized for the eventual appearance of the ultimatonic units of universe
matter. Thus are brought into being the spiral and other nebulae, the mother
wheels of the direct-origin suns and their varied systems. In outer space there
may be seen ten different forms of nebulae, phases of primary universe
evolution, and these vast energy wheels had the same origin as did those in the
seven superuniverses.

Nebulae vary greatly in size and in the resulting number and aggregate mass of
their stellar and planetary offspring. A sun-forming nebula just north of the
borders of Orvonton, but within the superuniverse space level, has already
given origin to approximately forty thousand suns, and the mother wheel is
still throwing off suns, the majority of which are many times the size of
yours. Some of the larger nebulae of outer space are giving origin to as many
as one hundred million suns.

Nebulae are not directly related to any of the administrative units, such as
minor sectors or local universes, although some local universes have been
organized from the products of a single nebula. Each local universe embraces
exactly one one-hundred-thousandth part of the total energy charge of a
superuniverse irrespective of nebular relationship, for energy is not organized
by nebulae--it is universally distributed.

                                top of page - 170

Not all spiral nebulae are engaged in sun making. Some have retained control of
many of their segregated stellar offspring, and their spiral appearance is
occasioned by the fact that their suns pass out of the nebular arm in close
formation but return by diverse routes, thus making it easy to observe them at
one point but more difficult to see them when widely scattered on their
different returning routes farther out and away from the arm of the nebula.
There are not many sun-forming nebulae active in Orvonton at the present time,
though Andromeda, which is outside the inhabited superuniverse, is very active.
This far-distant nebula is visible to the naked eye, and when you view it,
pause to consider that the light you behold left those distant suns almost one
million years ago.

The Milky Way galaxy is composed of vast numbers of former spiral and other
nebulae, and many still retain their original configuration. But as the result
of internal catastrophes and external attraction, many have suffered such
distortion and rearrangement as to cause these enormous aggregations to appear
as gigantic luminous masses of blazing suns, like the Magellanic Cloud. The
globular type of star clusters predominates near the outer margins of Orvonton.

The vast star clouds of Orvonton should be regarded as individual aggregations
of matter comparable to the separate nebulae observable in the space regions
external to the Milky Way galaxy. Many of the so-called star clouds of space,
however, consist of gaseous material only. The energy potential of these
stellar gas clouds is unbelievably enormous, and some of it is taken up by
near-by suns and redispatched in space as solar emanations.

5. THE ORIGIN OF SPACE BODIES

The bulk of the mass contained in the suns and planets of a superuniverse
originates in the nebular wheels; very little of superuniverse mass is
organized by the direct action of the power directors (as in the construction
of architectural spheres), although a constantly varying quantity of matter
originates in open space.

As to origin, the majority of the suns, planets, and other spheres can be
classified in one of the following ten groups:

1. Concentric Contraction Rings. Not all nebulae are spiral. Many an immense
nebula, instead of splitting into a double star system or evolving as a spiral,
undergoes condensation by multiple-ring formation. For long periods such a
nebula appears as an enormous central sun surrounded by numerous gigantic
clouds of encircling, ring-appearing formations of matter.

2. The Whirled Stars embrace those suns which are thrown off the great mother
wheels of highly heated gases. They are not thrown off as rings but in right-
and left-handed processions. Whirled stars are also of origin in
other-than-spiral nebulae.

3. Gravity-explosion Planets. When a sun is born of a spiral or of a barred
nebula, not infrequently it is thrown out a considerable distance. Such a sun
is highly gaseous, and subsequently, after it has somewhat cooled and
condensed, it may chance to swing near some enormous mass of matter, a gigantic
sun or a dark island of space. Such an approach may not be near enough to
result in collision but still near enough to allow the gravity pull of the
greater body to start tidal convulsions in the lesser, thus initiating a series
of tidal upheavals which occur simultaneously on opposite sides of the
convulsed sun. At their height

                                top of page - 171

these explosive eruptions produce a series of varying-sized aggregations of
matter which may be projected beyond the gravity-reclamation zone of the
erupting sun, thus becoming stabilized in orbits of their own around one of the
two bodies concerned in this episode. Later on the larger collections of matter
unite and gradually draw the smaller bodies to themselves. In this way many of
the solid planets of the lesser systems are brought into existence. Your own
solar system had just such an origin.

4. Centrifugal Planetary Daughters. Enormous suns, when in certain stages of
development, and if their revolutionary rate greatly accelerates, begin to
throw off large quantities of matter which may subsequently be assembled to
form small worlds that continue to encircle the parent sun.

5. Gravity-deficiency Spheres. There is a critical limit to the size of
individual stars. When a sun reaches this limit, unless it slows down in
revolutionary rate, it is doomed to split; sun fission occurs, and a new double
star of this variety is born. Numerous small planets may be subsequently formed
as a by-product of this gigantic disruption.

6. Contractural Stars. In the smaller systems the largest outer planet
sometimes draws to itself its neighboring worlds, while those planets near the
sun begin their terminal plunge. With your solar system, such an end would mean
that the four inner planets would be claimed by the sun, while the major
planet, Jupiter, would be greatly enlarged by capturing the remaining worlds.
Such an end of a solar system would result in the production of two adjacent
but unequal suns, one type of double star formation. Such catastrophes are
infrequent except out on the fringe of the superuniverse starry aggregations.

7. Cumulative Spheres. From the vast quantity of matter circulating in space,
small planets may slowly accumulate. They grow by meteoric accretion and by
minor collisions. In certain sectors of space, conditions favor such forms of
planetary birth. Many an inhabited world has had such an origin.

Some of the dense dark islands are the direct result of the accretions of
transmuting energy in space. Another group of these dark islands have come into
being by the accumulation of enormous quantities of cold matter, mere fragments
and meteors, circulating through space. Such aggregations of matter have never
been hot and, except for density, are in composition very similar to Urantia.

8. Burned-out Suns. Some of the dark islands of space are burned-out isolated
suns, all available space-energy having been emitted. The organized units of
matter approximate full condensation, virtual complete consolidation; and it
requires ages upon ages for such enormous masses of highly condensed matter to
be recharged in the circuits of space and thus to be prepared for new cycles of
universe function following a collision or some equally revivifying cosmic
happening.

9. Collisional Spheres. In those regions of thicker clustering, collisions are
not uncommon. Such an astronomic readjustment is accompanied by tremendous
energy changes and matter transmutations. Collisions involving dead suns are
peculiarly influential in creating widespread energy fluctuations. Collisional
debris often constitutes the material nucleuses for the subsequent formation of
planetary bodies adapted to mortal habitation.

                                top of page - 172

10. Architectural Worlds. These are the worlds which are built according to
plans and specifications for some special purpose, such as Salvington, the
headquarters of your local universe, and Uversa, the seat of government of our
superuniverse.

There are numerous other techniques for evolving suns and segregating planets,
but the foregoing procedures suggest the methods whereby the vast majority of
stellar systems and planetary families are brought into existence. To undertake
to describe all the various techniques involved in stellar metamorphosis and
planetary evolution would require the narration of almost one hundred different
modes of sun formation and planetary origin. As your star students scan the
heavens, they will observe phenomena indicative of all these modes of stellar
evolution, but they will seldom detect evidence of the formation of those
small, nonluminous collections of matter which serve as inhabited planets, the
most important of the vast material creations.

6. THE SPHERES OF SPACE

Irrespective of origin, the various spheres of space are classifiable into the
following major divisions:

1. The suns--the stars of space.

2. The dark islands of space.

3. Minor space bodies--comets, meteors, and planetesimals.

4. The planets, including the inhabited worlds.

5. Architectural spheres--worlds made to order.

With the exception of the architectural spheres, all space bodies have had an
evolutionary origin, evolutionary in the sense that they have not been brought
into being by fiat of Deity, evolutionary in the sense that the creative acts
of God have unfolded by a time-space technique through the operation of many of
the created and eventuated intelligences of Deity.

The Suns. These are the stars of space in all their various stages of
existence. Some are solitary evolving space systems; others are double stars,
contracting or disappearing planetary systems. The stars of space exist in no
less than a thousand different states and stages. You are familiar with suns
that emit light accompanied by heat; but there are also suns which shine
without heat.

The trillions upon trillions of years that an ordinary sun will continue to
give out heat and light well illustrates the vast store of energy which each
unit of matter contains. The actual energy stored in these invisible particles
of physical matter is well-nigh unimaginable. And this energy becomes almost
wholly available as light when subjected to the tremendous heat pressure and
the associated energy activities which prevail in the interior of the blazing
suns. Still other conditions enable these suns to transform and send forth much
of the energy of space which comes their way in the established space circuits.
Many phases of physical energy and all forms of matter are attracted to, and
subsequently distributed by, the solar dynamos. In this way the suns serve as
local accelerators of energy circulation, acting as automatic power-control
stations.

The superuniverse of Orvonton is illuminated and warmed by more than ten
trillion blazing suns. These suns are the stars of your observable astronomic
system. More than two trillion are too distant and too small ever to be seen
from

                                top of page - 173

Urantia. But in the master universe there are as many suns as there are glasses
of water in the oceans of your world.

The Dark Islands of Space. These are the dead suns and other large aggregations
of matter devoid of light and heat. The dark islands are sometimes enormous in
mass and exert a powerful influence in universe equilibrium and energy
manipulation. The density of some of these large masses is well-nigh
unbelievable. And this great concentration of mass enables these dark islands
to function as powerful balance wheels, holding large neighboring systems in
effective leash. They hold the gravity balance of power in many constellations;
many physical systems which would otherwise speedily dive to destruction in
near-by suns are held securely in the gravity grasp of these guardian dark
islands. It is because of this function that we can locate them accurately. We
have measured the gravity pull of the luminous bodies, and we can therefore
calculate the exact size and location of the dark islands of space which so
effectively function to hold a given system steady in its course.

Minor Space Bodies. The meteors and other small particles of matter circulating
and evolving in space constitute an enormous aggregate of energy and material
substance.

Many comets are unestablished wild offspring of the solar mother wheels, which
are being gradually brought under control of the central governing sun. Comets
also have numerous other origins. A comet's tail points away from the
attracting body or sun because of the electrical reaction of its highly
expanded gases and because of the actual pressure of light and other energies
emanating from the sun. This phenomenon constitutes one of the positive proofs
of the reality of light and its associated energies; it demonstrates that light
has weight. Light is a real substance, not simply waves of hypothetical ether.

The Planets. These are the larger aggregations of matter which follow an orbit
around a sun or some other space body; they range in size from planetesimals to
enormous gaseous, liquid, or solid spheres. The cold worlds which have been
built up by the assemblage of floating space material, when they happen to be
in proper relation to a near-by sun, are the more ideal planets to harbor
intelligent inhabitants. The dead suns are not, as a rule, suited to life; they
are usually too far away from a living, blazing sun, and further, they are
altogether too massive; gravity is tremendous at the surface.

In your superuniverse not one cool planet in forty is habitable by beings of
your order. And, of course, the superheated suns and the frigid outlying worlds
are unfit to harbor higher life. In your solar system only three planets are at
present suited to harbor life. Urantia, in size, density, and location, is in
many respects ideal for human habitation.

The laws of physical-energy behavior are basically universal, but local
influences have much to do with the physical conditions which prevail on
individual planets and in local systems. An almost endless variety of creature
life and other living manifestations characterizes the countless worlds of
space. There are, however, certain points of similarity in a group of worlds
associated in a given system, while there also is a universe pattern of
intelligent life. There are physical relationships among those planetary
systems which belong to the same physical circuit, and which closely follow
each other in the endless swing around the circle of universes.

                                top of page - 174

7. THE ARCHITECTURAL SPHERES

While each superuniverse government presides near the center of the
evolutionary universes of its space segment, it occupies a world made to order
and is peopled by accredited personalities. These headquarters worlds are
architectural spheres, space bodies specifically constructed for their special
purpose. While sharing the light of near-by suns, these spheres are
independently lighted and heated. Each has a sun which gives forth light
without heat, like the satellites of Paradise, while each is supplied with heat
by the circulation of certain energy currents near the surface of the sphere.
These headquarters worlds belong to one of the greater systems situated near
the astronomical center of their respective superuniverses.

Time is standardized on the headquarters of the superuniverses. The standard
day of the superuniverse of Orvonton is equal to almost thirty days of Urantia
time, and the Orvonton year equals one hundred standard days. This Uversa year
is standard in the seventh superuniverse, and it is twenty-two minutes short of
three thousand days of Urantia time, about eight and one fifth of your years.

The headquarters worlds of the seven superuniverses partake of the nature and
grandeur of Paradise, their central pattern of perfection. In reality, all
headquarters worlds are paradisiacal. They are indeed heavenly abodes, and they
increase in material size, morontia beauty, and spirit glory from Jerusem to
the central Isle. And all the satellites of these headquarters worlds are also
architectural spheres.

The various headquarters worlds are provided with every phase of material and
spiritual creation. All kinds of material, morontial, and spiritual beings are
at home on these rendezvous worlds of the universes. As mortal creatures ascend
the universe, passing from the material to the spiritual realms, they never
lose their appreciation for, and enjoyment of, their former levels of
existence.

Jerusem, the headquarters of your local system of Satania, has its seven worlds
of transition culture! each of which is encircled by seven satellites, among
which are the seven mansion worlds of morontia detention, man's first
postmortal residence. As the term heaven has been used on Urantia, it has
sometimes meant these seven mansion worlds, the first mansion world being
denominated the first heaven, and so on to the seventh.

Edentia, the headquarters of your constellation of Norlatiadek, has its seventy
satellites of socializing culture and training, on which ascenders sojourn upon
the completion of the Jerusem regime of personality mobilization, unification,
and realization.

Salvington, the capital of Nebadon, your local universe, is surrounded by ten
university clusters of forty-nine spheres each. Hereon is man spiritualized
following his constellation socialization.

Uminor the third, the headquarters of your minor sector, Ensa, is surrounded by
the seven spheres of the higher physical studies of the ascendant life.

Umajor the fifth, the headquarters of your major sector, Splandon, is
surrounded by the seventy spheres of the advancing intellectual training of the
superuniverse.

                                top of page - 175

Uversa, the headquarters of Orvonton, your superuniverse, is immediately
surrounded by the seven higher universities of advanced spiritual training for
ascending will creatures. Each of these seven clusters of wonder spheres
consists of seventy specialized worlds containing thousands upon thousands of
replete institutions and organizations devoted to universe training and spirit
culture wherein the pilgrims of time are re-educated and re-examined
preparatory to their long flight to Havona. The arriving pilgrims of time are
always received on these associated worlds, but the departing graduates are
always dispatched for Havona direct from the shores of Uversa.

Uversa is the spiritual and administrative headquarters for approximately one
trillion inhabited or inhabitable worlds. The glory, grandeur, and perfection
of the Orvonton capital surpass any of the wonders of the time-space creations.

If all the projected local universes and their component parts were
established, there would be slightly less than five hundred billion
architectural worlds in the seven superuniverses.

8. ENERGY CONTROL AND REGULATION

The headquarters spheres of the superuniverses are so constructed that they are
able to function as efficient power-energy regulators for their various
sectors, serving as focal points for the directionization of energy to their
component local universes. They exert a powerful influence over the balance and
control of the physical energies circulating through organized space.

Further regulative functions are performed by the superuniverse power centers
and physical controllers, living and semiliving intelligent entities
constituted for this express purpose. These power centers and controllers are
difficult of understanding; the lower orders are not volitional, they do not
possess will, they do not choose, their functions are very intelligent but
apparently automatic and inherent in their highly specialized organization. The
power centers and physical controllers of the superuniverses assume direction
and partial control of the thirty energy systems which comprise the gravita
domain. The physical-energy circuits administered by the power centers of
Uversa require a little over 968 million years to complete the encirclement of
the superuniverse.

Evolving energy has substance; it has weight, although weight is always
relative, depending on revolutionary velocity, mass, and antigravity. Mass in
matter tends to retard velocity in energy; and the anywhere-present velocity of
energy represents: the initial endowment of velocity, minus retardation by mass
encountered in transit, plus the regulatory function of the living energy
controllers of the superuniverse and the physical influence of near-by highly
heated or heavily charged bodies.

The universal plan for the maintenance of equilibrium between matter and energy
necessitates the everlasting making and unmaking of the lesser material units.
The Universe Power Directors have the ability to condense and detain, or to
expand and liberate, varying quantities of energy.

Given a sufficient duration of retarding influence, gravity would eventually
convert all energy into matter were it not for two factors: First, because of
the antigravity influences of the energy controllers, and second, because
organized matter tends to disintegrate under certain conditions found in very
hot stars and under certain peculiar conditions in space near highly energized
cold bodies of condensed matter.

                                top of page - 176

When mass becomes overaggregated and threatens to unbalance energy, to deplete
the physical power circuits, the physical controllers intervene unless
gravity's own further tendency to overmaterialize energy is defeated by the
occurrence of a collision among the dead giants of space, thus in an instant
completely dissipating the cumulative collections of gravity. In these
collisional episodes enormous masses of matter are suddenly converted into the
rarest form of energy, and the struggle for universal equilibrium is begun
anew. Eventually the larger physical systems become stabilized, become
physically settled, and are swung into the balanced and established circuits of
the superuniverses. Subsequent to this event no more collisions or other
devastating catastrophes will occur in such established systems.

During the times of plus energy there are power disturbances and heat
fluctuations accompanied by electrical manifestations. During times of minus
energy there are increased tendencies for matter to aggregate, condense, and to
get out of control in the more delicately balanced circuits, with resultant
tidal or collisional adjustments which quickly restore the balance between
circulating energy and more literally stabilized matter. To forecast and
otherwise to understand such likely behavior of the blazing suns and the dark
islands of space is one of the tasks of the celestial star observers.

We are able to recognize most of the laws governing universe equilibrium and to
predict much pertaining to universe stability. Practically, our forecasts are
reliable, but we are always confronted by certain forces which are not wholly
amenable to the laws of energy control and matter behavior known to us. The
predictability of all physical phenomena becomes increasingly difficult as we
proceed outward in the universes from Paradise. As we pass beyond the borders
of the personal administration of the Paradise Rulers, we are confronted with
increasing inability to reckon in accordance with the standards established and
the experience acquired in connection with observations having exclusively to
do with the physical phenomena of the near-by astronomic systems. Even in the
realms of the seven superuniverses we are living in the midst of force actions
and energy reactions which pervade all our domains and extend in unified
equilibrium on through all regions of outer space.

The farther out we go, the more certainly we encounter those variational and
unpredictable phenomena which are so unerringly characteristic of the
unfathomable presence-performances of the Absolutes and the experiential
Deities. And these phenomena must be indicative of some universal overcontrol
of all things.

The superuniverse of Orvonton is apparently now running down; the outer
universes seem to be winding up for unparalleled future activities; the central
Havona universe is eternally stabilized. Gravity and absence of heat (cold)
organize and hold matter together; heat and antigravity disrupt matter and
dissipate energy. The living power directors and force organizers are the
secret of the special control and intelligent direction of the endless
metamorphoses of universe making, unmaking, and remaking. Nebulae may disperse,
suns burn out, systems vanish, and planets perish, but the universes do not run
down.

9. CIRCUITS OF THE SUPERUNIVERSES

The universal circuits of Paradise do actually pervade the realms of the seven
superuniverses. These presence circuits are: the personality gravity of

                                top of page - 177

the Universal Father, the spiritual gravity of the Eternal Son, the mind
gravity of the Conjoint Actor, and the material gravity of the eternal Isle.

In addition to the universal Paradise circuits and in addition to the
presence-performances of the Absolutes and the experiential Deities, there
function within the superuniverse space level only two energy-circuit divisions
or power segregations: the superuniverse circuits and the local universe
circuits.

The Superuniverse Circuits:

1. The unifying intelligence circuit of one of the Seven Master Spirits of
Paradise. Such a cosmic-mind circuit is limited to a single superuniverse.

2. The reflective-service circuit of the seven Reflective Spirits in each
superuniverse.

3. The secret circuits of the Mystery Monitors, in some manner interassociated
and routed by Divinington to the Universal Father on Paradise.

4. The circuit of the intercommunion of the Eternal Son with his Paradise Sons.

5. The flash presence of the Infinite Spirit.

6. The broadcasts of Paradise, the space reports of Havona.

7. The energy circuits of the power centers and the physical controllers.

The Local Universe Circuits:

1. The bestowal spirit of the Paradise Sons, the Comforter of the bestowal
worlds. The Spirit of Truth, the spirit of Michael on Urantia.

2. The circuit of the Divine Ministers, the local universe Mother Spirits, the
Holy Spirit of your world.

3. The intelligence-ministry circuit of a local universe, including the
diversely functioning presence of the adjutant mind-spirits.

When there develops such a spiritual harmony in a local universe that its
individual and combined circuits become indistinguishable from those of the
superuniverse, when such identity of function and oneness of ministry actually
prevail, then does the local universe immediately swing into the settled
circuits of light and life, becoming at once eligible for admission into the
spiritual confederation of the perfected union of the supercreation. The
requisites for admission to the councils of the Ancients of Days, membership in
the superuniverse confederation, are:

1. Physical Stability. The stars and planets of a local universe must be in
equilibrium; the periods of immediate stellar metamorphosis must be over. The
universe must be proceeding on a clear track; its orbit must be safely and
finally settled.

2. Spiritual Loyalty. There must exist a state of universal recognition of, and
loyalty to, the Sovereign Son of God who presides over the affairs of such a
local universe. There must have come into being a state of harmonious
co-operation between the individual planets, systems, and constellations of the
entire local universe.

Your local universe is not even reckoned as belonging to the settled physical
order of the superuniverse, much less as holding membership in the recognized
spiritual family of the supergovernment. Although Nebadon does not yet have

                                top of page - 178

representation on Uversa, we of the superuniverse government are dispatched to
its worlds on special missions from time to time, even as I have come to
Urantia directly from Uversa. We lend every possible assistance to your
directors and rulers in the solution of their difficult problems; we are
desirous of seeing your universe qualified for full admission into the
associated creations of the superuniverse family.

10. RULERS OF THE SUPERUNIVERSES

The headquarters of the superuniverses are the seats of the high spiritual
government of the time-space domains. The executive branch of the
supergovernment, taking origin in the Councils of the Trinity, is immediately
directed by one of the Seven Master Spirits of supreme supervision, beings who
sit upon seats of Paradise authority and administer the superuniverses through
the Seven Supreme Executives stationed on the seven special worlds of the
Infinite Spirit, the outermost satellites of Paradise.

The superuniverse headquarters are the abiding places of the Reflective Spirits
and the Reflective Image Aids. From this midway position these marvelous beings
conduct their tremendous reflectivity operations, thus ministering to the
central universe above and to the local universes below.

Each superuniverse is presided over by three Ancients of Days, the joint chief
executives of the supergovernment. In its executive branch the personnel of the
superuniverse government consists of seven different groups:

1. Ancients of Days.

2. Perfectors of Wisdom.

3. Divine Counselors.

4. Universal Censors.

5. Mighty Messengers.

6. Those High in Authority.

7. Those without Name and Number.

The three Ancients of Days are immediately assisted by a corps of one billion
Perfectors of Wisdom, with whom are associated three billion Divine Counselors.
One billion Universal Censors are attached to each superuniverse
administration. These three groups are Co-ordinate Trinity Personalities,
taking origin directly and divinely in the Paradise Trinity.

The remaining three orders, Mighty Messengers, Those High in Authority, and
Those without Name and Number, are glorified ascendant mortals. The first of
these orders came up through the ascendant regime and passed through Havona in
the days of Grandfanda. Having attained Paradise, they were mustered into the
Corps of the Finality, embraced by the Paradise Trinity, and subsequently
assigned to the supernal service of the Ancients of Days. As a class, these
three orders are known as Trinitized Sons of Attainment, being of dual origin
but now of Trinity service. Thus was the executive branch of the superuniverse
government enlarged to include the glorified and perfected children of the
evolutionary worlds.

The co-ordinate council of the superuniverse is composed of the seven executive
groups previously named and the following sector rulers and other re-

                                top of page - 179

gional overseers:

1. Perfections of Days--the rulers of the superuniverse major sectors.

2. Recents of Days--the directors of the superuniverse minor sectors.

3. Unions of Days--the Paradise advisers to the rulers of the local universes.

4. Faithfuls of Days--the Paradise counselors to the Most High rulers of the
constellation governments.

5. Trinity Teacher Sons who may chance to be on duty at superuniverse
headquarters.

6. Eternals of Days who may happen to be present at superuniverse headquarters.

7. The seven Reflective Image Aids--the spokesmen of the seven Reflective
Spirits and through them representatives of the Seven Master Spirits of
Paradise.

The Reflective Image Aids also function as the representatives of numerous
groups of beings who are influential in the superuniverse governments, but who
are not, at present, for various reasons, fully active in their individual
capacities. Embraced within this group are: the evolving superuniverse
personality manifestation of the Supreme Being, the Unqualified Supervisors of
the Supreme, the Qualified Vicegerents of the Ultimate, the unnamed liaison
reflectivators of Majeston, and the superpersonal spirit representatives of the
Eternal Son.

At almost all times it is possible to find representatives of all groups of
created beings on the headquarters worlds of the superuniverses. The routine
ministering work of the superuniverses is performed by the mighty seconaphim
and by other members of the vast family of the Infinite Spirit. In the work of
these marvelous centers of superuniverse administration, control, ministry, and
executive judgment, the intelligences of every sphere of universal life are
mingled in effective service, wise administration, loving ministry, and just
judgment.

The superuniverses do not maintain any sort of ambassadorial representation;
they are completely isolated from each other. They know of mutual affairs only
through the Paradise clearinghouse maintained by the Seven Master Spirits.
Their rulers work in the councils of divine wisdom for the welfare of their own
superuniverses regardless of what may be transpiring in other sections of the
universal creation. This isolation of the superuniverses will persist until
such time as their co-ordination is achieved by the more complete
factualization of the personality-sovereignty of the evolving experiential
Supreme Being.

11. THE DELIBERATIVE ASSEMBLY

It is on such worlds as Uversa that the beings representative of the autocracy
of perfection and the democracy of evolution meet face to face. The executive
branch of the supergovernment originates in the realms of perfection; the
legislative branch springs from the flowering of the evolutionary universes.

The deliberative assembly of the superuniverse is confined to the headquarters
world. This legislative or advisory council consists of seven houses, to each
of which every local universe admitted to the superuniverse councils elects a
native representative. These representatives are chosen by the high councils of
such local universes from among the ascending-pilgrim graduates of Orvonton

                                top of page - 180

who are tarrying on Uversa, accredited for transport to Havona. The average
term of service is about one hundred years of superuniverse standard time.

Never have I known of a disagreement between the Orvonton executives and the
Uversa assembly. Never yet, in the history of our superuniverse, has the
deliberative body ever passed a recommendation that the executive division of
the supergovernment has even hesitated to carry out. There always has prevailed
the most perfect harmony and working agreement, all of which testifies to the
fact that evolutionary beings can really attain the heights of perfected wisdom
which qualifies them to consort with the personalities of perfect origin and
divine nature. The presence of the deliberative assemblies on the superuniverse
headquarters reveals the wisdom, and foreshadows the ultimate triumph, of the
whole vast evolutionary concept of the Universal Father and his Eternal Son.

12. THE SUPREME TRIBUNALS

When we speak of executive and deliberative branches of the Uversa government,
you may, from the analogy of certain forms of Urantian civil government, reason
that we must have a third or judicial branch, and we do; but it does not have a
separate personnel. Our courts are constituted as follows: There presides, in
accordance with the nature and gravity of the case, an Ancient of Days, a
Perfector of Wisdom, or a Divine Counselor. The evidence for or against an
individual, a planet, system, constellation, or universe is presented and
interpreted by the Censors. The defense of the children of time and the
evolutionary planets is offered by the Mighty Messengers, the official
observers of the superuniverse government to the local universes and systems.
The attitude of the higher government is portrayed by Those High in Authority.
And ordinarily the verdict is formulated by a varying-sized commission
consisting equally of Those without Name and Number and a group of
understanding personalities chosen from the deliberative assembly.

The courts of the Ancients of Days are the high review tribunals for the
spiritual adjudication of all component universes. The Sovereign Sons of the
local universes are supreme in their own domains; they are subject to the
supergovernment only in so far as they voluntarily submit matters for counsel
or adjudication by the Ancients of Days except in matters involving the
extinction of will creatures. Mandates of judgment originate in the local
universes, but sentences involving the extinction of will creatures are always
formulated on, and executed from, the headquarters of the superuniverse. The
Sons of the local universes can decree the survival of mortal man, but only the
Ancients of Days may sit in executive judgment on the issues of eternal life
and death.

In all matters not requiring trial, the submission of evidence, the Ancients of
Days or their associates render decisions, and these rulings are always
unanimous. We are here dealing with the councils of perfection. There are no
disagreements nor minority opinions in the decrees of these supreme and
superlative tribunals.

With certain few exceptions the supergovernments exercise jurisdiction over all
things and all beings in their respective domains. There is no appeal from the
rulings and decisions of the superuniverse authorities since they represent the
concurred opinions of the Ancients of Days and that Master Spirit who, from
Paradise, presides over the destiny of the superuniverse concerned.

                                top of page - 181

13. THE SECTOR GOVERNMENTS

A major sector comprises about one tenth of a superuniverse and consists of one
hundred minor sectors, ten thousand local universes, about one hundred billion
inhabitable worlds. These major sectors are administered by three Perfections
of Days, Supreme Trinity Personalities.

The courts of the Perfections of Days are constituted much as are those of the
Ancients of Days except that they do not sit in spiritual judgment upon the
realms. The work of these major sector governments has chiefly to do with the
intellectual status of a far-flung creation. The major sectors detain,
adjudicate, dispense, and tabulate, for reporting to the courts of the Ancients
of Days, all matters of superuniverse importance of a routine and
administrative nature which are not immediately concerned with the spiritual
administration of the realms or with the outworking of the mortal-ascension
plans of the Paradise Rulers. The personnel of a major sector government is no
different from that of the superuniverse.

As the magnificent satellites of Uversa are concerned with your final spiritual
preparation for Havona, so are the seventy satellites of Umajor the fifth
devoted to your superuniverse intellectual training and development. From all
Orvonton, here are gathered together the wise beings who labor untiringly to
prepare the mortals of time for their further progress towards the career of
eternity. Most of this training of ascending mortals is conducted on the
seventy study worlds.

The minor sector governments are presided over by three Recents of Days. Their
administration is concerned mainly with the physical control, unification,
stabilization, and routine co-ordination of the administration of the component
local universes. Each minor sector embraces as many as one hundred local
universes, ten thousand constellations, one million systems, or about one
billion inhabitable worlds.

Minor sector headquarters worlds are the grand rendezvous of the Master
Physical Controllers. These headquarters worlds are surrounded by the seven
instruction spheres which constitute the entrance schools of the superuniverse
and are the centers of training for physical and administrative knowledge
concerning the universe of universes.

The administrators of the minor sector governments are under the immediate
jurisdiction of the major sector rulers. The Recents of Days receive all
reports of observations and co-ordinate all recommendations which come up to a
superuniverse from the Unions of Days who are stationed as Trinity observers
and advisers on the headquarters spheres of the local universes and from the
Faithfuls of Days who are similarly attached to the councils of the Most Highs
at the headquarters of the constellations. All such reports are transmitted to
the Perfections of Days on the major sectors, subsequently to be passed on to
the courts of the Ancients of Days. Thus the Trinity regime extends from the
constellations of the local universes up to the headquarters of the
superuniverse. The local system headquarters do not have Trinity
representatives.

14. PURPOSES OF THE SEVEN SUPERUNIVERSES

There are seven major purposes which are being unfolded in the evolution of the
seven superuniverses. Each major purpose in superuniverse evolution will

                                top of page - 182

find fullest expression in only one of the seven superuniverses, and therefore
does each superuniverse have a special function and a unique nature.

Orvonton, the seventh superuniverse, the one to which your local universe
belongs, is known chiefly because of its tremendous and lavish bestowal of
merciful ministry to the mortals of the realms. It is renowned for the manner
in which justice prevails as tempered by mercy and power rules as conditioned
by patience, while the sacrifices of time are freely made to secure the
stabilization of eternity. Orvonton is a universe demonstration of love and
mercy.

It is, however, very difficult to describe our conception of the true nature of
the evolutionary purpose which is unfolding in Orvonton, but it may be
suggested by saying that in this supercreation we feel that the six unique
purposes of cosmic evolution as manifested in the six associated supercreations
are here being interassociated into a meaning-of-the-whole; and it is for this
reason that we have sometimes conjectured that the evolved and finished
personalization of God the Supreme will in the remote future and from Uversa
rule the perfected seven superuniverses in all the experiential majesty of his
then attained almighty sovereign power.

As Orvonton is unique in nature and individual in destiny, so also is each of
its six associated superuniverses. A great deal that is going on in Orvonton is
not, however, revealed to you, and of these unrevealed features of Orvonton
life, many are to find most complete expression in some other superuniverse.
The seven purposes of superuniverse evolution are operative throughout all
seven superuniverses, but each supercreation will give fullest expression to
only one of these purposes. To understand more about these superuniverse
purposes, much that you do not understand would have to be revealed, and even
then you would comprehend but little. This entire narrative presents only a
fleeting glimpse of the immense creation of which your world and local system
are a part.

Your world is called Urantia, and it is number 606 in the planetary group, or
system, of Satania. This system has at present 619 inhabited worlds, and more
than two hundred additional planets are evolving favorably toward becoming
inhabited worlds at some future time.

Satania has a headquarters world called Jerusem, and it is system number
twenty-four in the constellation of Norlatiadek. Your constellation,
Norlatiadek, consists of one hundred local systems and has a headquarters world
called Edentia. Norlatiadek is number seventy in the universe of Nebadon. The
local universe of Nebadon consists of one hundred constellations and has a
capital known as Salvington. The universe of Nebadon is number eighty-four in
the minor sector of Ensa.

The minor sector of Ensa consists of one hundred local universes and has a
capital called Uminor the third. This minor sector is number three in the major
sector of Splandon. Splandon consists of one hundred minor sectors and has a
headquarters world called Umajor the fifth. It is the fifth major sector of the
superuniverse of Orvonton, the seventh segment of the grand universe. Thus you
can locate your planet in the scheme of the organization and administration of
the universe of universes.

The grand universe number of your world, Urantia, is 5,342,482,337,666. That is
the registry number on Uversa and on Paradise, your number in the catalogue of
the inhabited worlds. I know the physical-sphere registry number, but it is of
such an extraordinary size that it is of little practical significance to the
mortal mind.

                                top of page - 183

Your planet is a member of an enormous cosmos; you belong to a well-nigh
infinite family of worlds, but your sphere is just as precisely administered
and just as lovingly fostered as if it were the only inhabited world in all
existence.

[Presented by a Universal Censor hailing from Uversa.]

                                top of page - 184

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality


        //                                                                
   The Central         The Seven        Urantia Book     Search  SiteMap! 
      And...           Maste...             PA...                         

//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),             
                            http://www.spiritweb.org                   
                       Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>             
                                                                       
                  ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.        
             DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,    
                                    AUSTRALIA                          
                                                                       

