            Urantia Book Paper 17 The Seven Supreme Spirit Groups
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Paper 17 The Seven Supreme Spirit Groups

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE seven Supreme Spirit groups are the universal co-ordinating directors of
the seven-segmented administration of the grand universe. Although all are
classed among the functional family of the Infinite Spirit, the following three
groups are usually classified as children of the Paradise Trinity:

1. The Seven Master Spirits.

2. The Seven Supreme Executives.

3. The Reflective Spirits.

The remaining four groups are brought into being by the creative acts of the
Infinite Spirit or by his associates of creative status:

4. The Reflective Image Aids.

5. The Seven Spirits of the Circuits.

6. The Local Universe Creative Spirits.

7. The Adjutant Mind-Spirits.

These seven orders are known on Uversa as the seven Supreme Spirit groups.
Their functional domain extends from the personal presence of the Seven Master
Spirits on the periphery of the eternal Isle, through the seven Paradise
satellites of the Spirit, the Havona circuits, the governments of the
superuniverses, and the administration and supervision of the local universes,
even to the lowly service of the adjutants bestowed upon the realms of
evolutionary mind on the worlds of time and space.

The Seven Master Spirits are the co-ordinating directors of this far-flung
administrative realm. In some matters pertaining to the administrative
regulation of organized physical power, mind energy, and impersonal spirit
ministry, they act personally and directly, and in others they function through
their multifarious associates. In all matters of an executive nature--rulings,
regulations, adjustments, and administrative decisions--the Master Spirits act
in the persons of the Seven Supreme Executives. In the central universe the
Master Spirits may function through the Seven Spirits of the Havona Circuits;
on the headquarters of the seven superuniverses they reveal themselves through
the channel of the Reflective Spirits and act through the persons of the
Ancients of Days, with whom they are in personal communication through the
Reflective Image Aids.

The Seven Master Spirits do not directly and personally contact universe
administration below the courts of the Ancients of Days. Your local universe is
administered as a part of our superuniverse by the Master Spirit of Orvonton,
but his function in relation to the native beings of Nebadon is immediately
discharged and personally directed by the Creative Mother Spirit resident on
Salvington, the headquarters of your local universe.

                                top of page - 198

1. THE SEVEN SUPREME EXECUTIVES

The executive headquarters of the Master Spirits occupy the seven Paradise
satellites of the Infinite Spirit, which swing around the central Isle between
the shining spheres of the Eternal Son and the innermost Havona circuit. These
executive spheres are under the direction of the Supreme Executives, a group of
seven who were trinitized by the Father, Son, and Spirit in accordance with the
specifications of the Seven Master Spirits for beings of a type that could
function as their universal representatives.

The Master Spirits maintain contact with the various divisions of the
superuniverse governments through these Supreme Executives. It is they who very
largely determine the basic constitutive trends of the seven superuniverses.
They are uniformly and divinely perfect, but they also possess diversity of
personality. They have no presiding head; each time they meet together, they
choose one of their number to preside over that joint council. Periodically
they journey to Paradise to sit in council with the Seven Master Spirits.

The Seven Supreme Executives function as the administrative co-ordinators of
the grand universe; they might be termed the board of managing directors of the
post-Havona creation. They are not concerned with the internal affairs of
Paradise, and they direct their limited spheres of Havona activity through the
Seven Spirits of the Circuits. Otherwise there are few limits to the scope of
their supervision; they engage in the direction of things physical,
intellectual, and spiritual; they see all, hear all, feel all, even know all,
that transpires in the seven superuniverses and in Havona.

These Supreme Executives do not originate policies, nor do they modify universe
procedures; they are concerned with the execution of the plans of divinity
promulgated by the Seven Master Spirits. Neither do they interfere with the
rule of the Ancients of Days in the superuniverses nor with the sovereignty of
the Creator Sons in the local universes. They are the co-ordinating executives
whose function it is to carry out the combined policies of all duly constituted
rulers in the grand universe.

Each of the executives and the facilities of his sphere are devoted to the
efficient administration of a single superuniverse. Supreme Executive Number
One, functioning on executive sphere number one, is wholly occupied with the
affairs of superuniverse number one, and so on to Supreme Executive Number
Seven, working from the seventh Paradise satellite of the Spirit and devoting
his energies to the management of the seventh superuniverse. The name of this
seventh sphere is Orvonton, for the Paradise satellites of the Spirit have the
same names as their related superuniverses; in fact, the superuniverses were
named after them.

On the executive sphere of the seventh superuniverse the staff engaged in
keeping straight the affairs of Orvonton runs into numbers beyond human
comprehension and embraces practically every order of celestial intelligence.
All superuniverse services of personality dispatch (except Inspired Trinity
Spirits and Thought Adjusters) pass through one of these seven executive worlds
on their universe journeys to and from Paradise, and here are maintained the
central registries for all personalities created by the Third Source and Center
who function in the superuniverses. The system of material, morontial, and

                                top of page - 199

spiritual records on one of these executive worlds of the Spirit amazes even a
being of my order.

The immediate subordinates of the Supreme Executives consist for the greater
part of the trinitized sons of Paradise-Havona personalities and of the
trinitized offspring of the glorified mortal graduates from the agelong
training of the ascendant scheme of time and space. These trinitized sons are
designated for service with the Supreme Executives by the chief of the Supreme
Council of the Paradise Corps of the Finality.

Each Supreme Executive has two advisory cabinets: The children of the Infinite
Spirit on the headquarters of each superuniverse choose representatives from
their ranks to serve for one millennium in the primary advisory cabinet of
their Supreme Executive. In all matters affecting the ascending mortals of
time, there is a secondary cabinet, consisting of mortals of Paradise
attainment and of the trinitized sons of glorified mortals; this body is chosen
by the perfecting and ascending beings who transiently dwell on the seven
superuniverse headquarters. All other chiefs of affairs are appointed by the
Supreme Executives.

From time to time, great conclaves take place on these Paradise satellites of
the Spirit. Trinitized sons assigned to these worlds, together with the
ascenders who have attained Paradise, assemble with the spirit personalities of
the Third Source and Center in the reunions of the struggles and triumphs of
the ascendant career. The Supreme Executives always preside over such fraternal
gatherings.

Once in each Paradise millennium the Seven Supreme Executives vacate their
seats of authority and go to Paradise, where they hold their millennial
conclave of universal greeting and well-wishing to the intelligent hosts of
creation. This eventful occasion takes place in the immediate presence of
Majeston, the chief of all reflective spirit groups. And they are thus able to
communicate simultaneously with all their associates in the grand universe
through the unique functioning of universal reflectivity.

2. MAJESTON--CHIEF OF REFLECTIVITY

The Reflective Spirits are of divine Trinity origin. There are fifty of these
unique and somewhat mysterious beings. Seven of these extraordinary
personalities were created at a time, and each such creative episode was
effected by a liaison of the Paradise Trinity and one of the Seven Master
Spirits.

This momentous transaction, occurring in the dawn of time, represents the
initial effort of the Supreme Creator Personalities, represented by the Master
Spirits, to function as cocreators with the Paradise Trinity. This union of the
creative power of the Supreme Creators with the creative potentials of the
Trinity is the very source of the actuality of the Supreme Being. Therefore,
when the cycle of reflective creation had run its course, when each of the
Seven Master Spirits had found perfect creative synchrony with the Paradise
Trinity, when the forty-ninth Reflective Spirit had personalized, then a new
and far-reaching reaction occurred in the Deity Absolute which imparted new
personality prerogatives to the Supreme Being and culminated in the
personalization of Majeston, the reflectivity chief and Paradise center of all
the work of the forty-nine Reflective Spirits and their associates throughout
the universe of universes.

                                top of page - 200

Majeston is a true person, the personal and infallible center of reflectivity
phenomena in all seven superuniverses of time and space. He maintains permanent
Paradise headquarters near the center of all things at the rendezvous of the
Seven Master Spirits. He is concerned solely with the co-ordination and
maintenance of the reflectivity service in the far-flung creation; he is not
otherwise involved in the administration of universe affairs.

Majeston is not included in our catalogue of Paradise personalities because he
is the only existing personality of divinity created by the Supreme Being in
functional liaison with the Deity Absolute. He is a person, but he is
exclusively and apparently automatically concerned with this one phase of
universe economy; he does not now function in any personal capacity with
relation to other (nonreflective) orders of universe personalities.

The creation of Majeston signalized the first supreme creative act of the
Supreme Being. This will to action was volitional in the Supreme Being, but the
stupendous reaction of the Deity Absolute was not foreknown. Not since the
eternity-appearance of Havona had the universe witnessed such a tremendous
factualization of such a gigantic and far-flung alignment of power and
co-ordination of functional spirit activities. The Deity response to the
creative wills of the Supreme Being and his associates was vastly beyond their
purposeful intent and greatly in excess of their conceptual forecasts.

We stand in awe of the possibility of what the future ages, wherein the Supreme
and the Ultimate may attain new levels of divinity and ascend to new domains of
personality function, may witness in the realms of the deitization of still
other unexpected and undreamed of beings who will possess unimagined powers of
enhanced universe co-ordination. There would seem to be no limit to the Deity
Absolute's potential of response to such unification of relationships between
experiential Deity and the existential Paradise Trinity.

3. THE REFLECTIVE SPIRITS

The forty-nine Reflective Spirits are of Trinity origin, but each of the seven
creative episodes attendant upon their appearance was productive of a type of
being in nature resembling the characteristics of the coancestral Master
Spirit. Thus they variously reflect the natures and characters of the seven
possible combinations of the association of the divinity characteristics of the
Universal Father, the Eternal Son, and the Infinite Spirit. For this reason it
is necessary to have seven of these Reflective Spirits on the headquarters of
each superuniverse. One of each of the seven types is required in order to
achieve the perfect reflection of all phases of every possible manifestation of
the three Paradise Deities as such phenomena might occur in any part of the
seven superuniverses. One of each type was accordingly assigned to service in
each of the superuniverses. These groups of seven dissimilar Reflective Spirits
maintain headquarters on the capitals of the superuniverses at the reflective
focus of each realm, and this is not identical with the point of spiritual
polarity.

The Reflective Spirits have names, but these designations are not revealed on
the worlds of space. They pertain to the nature and character of these beings
and are a part of one of the seven universal mysteries of the secret spheres of
Paradise.

                                top of page - 201

The attribute of reflectivity, the phenomenon of the mind levels of the
Conjoint Actor, the Supreme Being, and the Master Spirits, is transmissible to
all beings concerned in the working of this vast scheme of universal
intelligence. And herein is a great mystery: Neither the Master Spirits nor the
Paradise Deities, singly or collectively, disclose these powers of co-ordinate
universal reflectivity just as they are manifested in these forty-nine liaison
personalities of Majeston, and yet they are the creators of all these
marvelously endowed beings. Divine heredity does sometimes disclose in the
creature certain attributes which are not discernible in the Creator.

The personnel of the reflectivity service, with the exception of Majeston and
the Reflective Spirits, are all the creatures of the Infinite Spirit and his
immediate associates and subordinates. The Reflective Spirits of each
superuniverse are the creators of their Reflective Image Aids, their personal
voices to the courts of the Ancients of Days.

The Reflective Spirits are not merely transmitting agents; they are retentive
personalities as well. Their offspring, the seconaphim, are also retentive or
record personalities. Everything of true spiritual value is registered in
duplicate, and one impression is preserved in the personal equipment of some
member of one of the numerous orders of secoraphic personalities belonging to
the vast staff of the Reflective Spirits.

The formal records of the universes are passed up by and through the angelic
recorders, but the true spiritual records are assembled by reflectivity and are
preserved in the minds of suitable and appropriate personalities belonging to
the family of the Infinite Spirit. These are the live records in contrast with
the formal and dead records of the universe, and they are perfectly preserved
in the living minds of the recording personalities of the Infinite Spirit.

The reflectivity organization is also the news-gathering and the
decree-disseminating mechanism of all creation. It is in constant operation in
contrast with the periodic functioning of the various broadcast services.

Everything of import transpiring on a local universe headquarters is inherently
reflected to the capital of its superuniverse. And conversely, everything of
local universe significance is reflected outward to the local universe capitals
from the headquarters of their superuniverse. The reflectivity service from the
universes of time up to the superuniverses is apparently automatic or
self-operating, but it is not. It is all very personal and intelligent; its
precision results from perfection of personality co-operation and therefore can
hardly be attributed to the impersonal presence-performances of the Absolutes.

While Thought Adjusters do not participate in the operation of the universal
reflectivity system, we have every reason to believe that all Father fragments
are fully cognizant of these transactions and are able to avail themselves of
their content.

During the present universe age the space range of the extra-Paradise
reflectivity service seems to be limited by the periphery of the seven
superuniverses. Otherwise, the function of this service seems to be independent
of time and space. It appears to be independent of all known subabsolute
universe circuits.

On the headquarters of each superuniverse the reflective organization acts as a
segregated unit; but on certain special occasions, under the direction of
Majeston, all seven may and do act in universal unison, as in the event of the

                                top of page - 202

jubilee occasioned by the settling of an entire local universe in light and
life and at the times of the millennial greetings of the Seven Supreme
Executives.

4. THE REFLECTIVE IMAGE AIDS

The forty-nine Reflective Image Aids were created by the Reflective Spirits,
and there are just seven Aids on the headquarters of each superuniverse. The
first creative act of the seven Reflective Spirits of Uversa was the production
of their seven Image Aids, each Reflective Spirit creating his own Aid. The
Image Aids are, in certain attributes and characteristics, perfect
reproductions of their Reflective Mother Spirits; they are virtual duplications
minus the attribute of reflectivity. They are true images and constantly
function as the channel of communication between the Reflective Spirits and the
superuniverse authorities. The Image Aids are not merely assistants; they are
actual representations of their respective Spirit ancestors; they are images,
and they are true to their name.

The Reflective Spirits themselves are true personalities but of such an order
as to be incomprehensible to material beings. Even on a superuniverse
headquarters sphere they require the assistance of their Image Aids in all
personal intercourse with the Ancients of Days and their associates. In
contacts between the Image Aids and the Ancients of Days, sometimes one Aid
functions acceptably, while on other occasions two, three, four, or even all
seven are required for the full and proper presentation of the communication
intrusted to their transmission. Likewise, the messages of the Image Aids are
variously received by one, two, or all three Ancients of Days, as the content
of the communication may require.

The Image Aids serve forever by the sides of their ancestral Spirits, and they
have at their disposal an unbelievable host of helper seconaphim. The Image
Aids do not directly function in connection with the training worlds of
ascending mortals. They are closely associated with the intelligence service of
the universal scheme of mortal progression, but you will not personally come in
contact with them when you sojourn in the Uversa schools because these
seemingly personal beings are devoid of will; they do not exercise the power of
choice. They are true images, wholly reflective of the personality and mind of
the individual Spirit ancestor. As a class, ascending mortals do not intimately
contact with reflectivity. Always some being of the reflective nature will be
interposed between you and the actual operation of the service.

5. THE SEVEN SPIRITS OF THE CIRCUITS

The Seven Spirits of the Havona Circuits are the joint impersonal
representation of the Infinite Spirit and the Seven Master Spirits to the seven
circuits of the central universe. They are the servants of the Master Spirits,
whose collective offspring they are. The Master Spirits provide a distinct and
diversified administrative individuality in the seven superuniverses. Through
these uniform Spirits of the Havona Circuits they are enabled to provide a
unified, uniform, and co-ordinated spiritual supervision for the central
universe.

The Seven Spirits of the Circuits are each limited to the permeation of a
single Havona circuit. They are not directly concerned with the regimes of the
Eternals of Days, the rulers of the individual Havona worlds. But they are in

                                top of page - 203

liaison with the Seven Supreme Executives, and they synchronize with the
central universe presence of the Supreme Being. Their work is wholly confined
to Havona.

These Spirits of the Circuits make contact with those who sojourn in Havona
through their personal offspring, the tertiary supernaphim. While the Circuit
Spirits are coexistent with the Seven Master Spirits, their function in the
creation of tertiary supernaphim did not attain major importance until the
first pilgrims of time arrived on the outer circuit of Havona in the days of
Grandfanda.

As you advance from circuit to circuit in Havona, you will learn of the Spirits
of the Circuits, but you will not be able to hold personal communion with them,
even though you may personally enjoy, and recognize the impersonal presence of,
their spiritual influence.

The Circuit Spirits are related to the native inhabitants of Havona much as the
Thought Adjusters are related to the mortal creatures inhabiting the worlds of
the evolutionary universes. Like the Thought Adjusters, the Circuit Spirits are
impersonal, and they consort with the perfect minds of Havona beings much as
the impersonal spirits of the Universal Father indwell the finite minds of
mortal men. But the Spirits of the Circuits never become a permanent part of
Havona personalities.

6. THE LOCAL UNIVERSE CREATIVE SPIRITS

Much that pertains to the nature and function of the local universe Creative
Spirits properly belongs to the narrative of their association with the Creator
Sons in the organization and management of the local creations; but there are
many features of the prelocal universe experiences of these marvelous beings
which may be narrated as a part of this discussion of the seven Supreme Spirit
groups.

We are conversant with six phases of the career of a local universe Mother
Spirit, and we speculate much concerning the probability of a seventh stage of
activity. These different stages of existence are:

1. Initial Paradise Differentiation. When a Creator Son is personalized by the
joint action of the Universal Father and the Eternal Son, simultaneously there
occurs in the person of the Infinite Spirit what is known as the "supreme
reaction of complement." We do not comprehend the nature of this reaction, but
we understand that it designates an inherent modification of those
personalizable possibilities which are embraced within the creative potential
of the Conjoint Creator. The birth of a co-ordinate Creator Son signalizes the
birth within the person of the Infinite Spirit of the potential of the future
local universe consort of this Paradise Son. We are not cognizant of this new
prepersonal identification of entity, but we know that this fact finds place on
the Paradise records of the career of such a Creator Son.

2. Preliminary Creatorship Training. During the long period of the preliminary
training of a Michael Son in the organization and administration of universes,
his future consort undergoes further development of entity and becomes group
conscious of destiny. We do not know, but we suspect that such a
group-conscious entity becomes space cognizant and begins that preliminary
training requisite to the acquirement of spirit skill in her future work of
collaboration with the complemental Michael in universe creation and
administration.

                                top of page - 204

3. The Stage of Physical Creation. At the time the creatorship charge is
administered to a Michael Son by the Eternal Son, the Master Spirit who directs
the superuniverse to which this new Creator Son is destined gives expression to
the "prayer of identification" in the presence of the Infinite Spirit; and for
the first time, the entity of the subsequent Creative Spirit appears as
differentiated from the person of the Infinite Spirit. And proceeding directly
to the person of the petitioning Master Spirit, this entity is immediately lost
to our recognition, becoming apparently a part of the person of this Master
Spirit. The newly identified Creative Spirit remains with the Master Spirit
until the moment of the departure of the Creator Son for the adventure of
space; whereupon the Master Spirit commits the new Spirit consort to the
keeping of the Creator Son, at the same time administering to the Spirit
consort the charge of eternal fidelity and unending loyalty. And then occurs
one of the most profoundly touching episodes which ever take place on Paradise.
The Universal Father speaks in acknowledgment of the eternal union of the
Creator Son and the Creative Spirit and in confirmation of the bestowal of
certain joint powers of administration by the Master Spirit of superuniverse
jurisdiction.

The Father-united Creator Son and Creative Spirit then go forth on their
adventure of universe creation. And they work together in this form of
association throughout the long and arduous period of the material organization
of their universe.

4. The Life-Creation Era. Upon the declaration of intention to create life by
the Creator Son, there ensue on Paradise the "personalization ceremonies,"
participated in by the Seven Master Spirits and personally experienced by the
supervising Master Spirit. This is a Paradise Deity contribution to the
individuality of the Spirit consort of the Creator Son and becomes manifest to
the universe in the phenomenon of "the primary eruption" in the person of the
Infinite Spirit. Simultaneously with this phenomenon on Paradise, the
heretofore impersonal Spirit consort of the Creator Son becomes, to all
practical intents and purposes, a bona fide person. Henceforth and forevermore,
this same local universe Mother Spirit will be regarded as a person and will
maintain personal relations with all the personality hosts of the ensuing life
creation.

5. The Postbestowal Ages. Another and great change occurs in the never-ending
career of a Creative Spirit when the Creator Son returns to universe
headquarters after the completion of his seventh bestowal and subsequent to his
acquirement of full universe sovereignty. On that occasion, before the
assembled administrators of the universe, the triumphant Creator Son elevates
the Universe Mother Spirit to cosovereignty and acknowledges the Spirit consort
as his equal.

6. The Ages of Light and Life. Upon the establishment of the era of light and
life the local universe cosovereign enters upon the sixth phase of a Creative
Spirit's career. But we may not portray the nature of this great experience.
Such things pertain to a future stage of evolution in Nebadon.

7. The Unrevealed Career. We know of these six phases of the career of a local
universe Mother Spirit. It is inevitable that we should ask: Is there a seventh
career? We are mindful that, when finaliters attain what appears to be their
final destiny of mortal ascension, they are of record as entering upon the
career of sixth-stage spirits. We conjecture that there awaits the finaliters
still

                                top of page - 205

another and unrevealed career in universe assignment. It is only to be expected
that we would likewise regard the Universe Mother Spirits as having ahead of
them some undisclosed career which will constitute their seventh phase of
personal experience in universe service and loyal co-operation with the order
of the Creator Michaels.

7. THE ADJUTANT MIND-SPIRITS

These adjutant spirits are the sevenfold mind bestowal of a local universe
Mother Spirit upon the living creatures of the conjoint creation of a Creator
Son and such a Creative Spirit. This bestowal becomes possible at the time of
the Spirit's elevation to the status of personality prerogatives. The narration
of the nature and functioning of the seven adjutant mind-spirits belongs more
appropriately to the story of your local universe of Nebadon.

8. FUNCTIONS OF THE SUPREME SPIRITS

The seven groups of Supreme Spirits constitute the nucleus of the functional
family of the Third Source and Center both as the Infinite Spirit and as the
Conjoint Actor. The domain of the Supreme Spirits extends from the presence of
the Trinity on Paradise to the functioning of mind of the evolutionary-mortal
order on the planets of space. Thus do they unify the descending administrative
levels and co-ordinate the manifold functions of the personnel thereof. Whether
it is a Reflective Spirit group in liaison with the Ancients of Days, a
Creative Spirit acting in concert with a Michael Son, or the Seven Master
Spirits encircuited around the Paradise Trinity, the activity of the Supreme
Spirits is encountered everywhere in the central, super-, and local universes.
They function alike with the Trinity personalities of the order of "Days" and
with the Paradise personalities of the order of "Sons."

Together with their Infinite Mother Spirit, the Supreme Spirit groups are the
immediate creators of the vast creature family of the Third Source and Center.
All orders of the ministering spirits spring from this association. Primary
supernaphim originate in the Infinite Spirit; secondary beings of this order
are created by the Master Spirits; tertiary supernaphim by the Seven Spirits of
the Circuits. The Reflective Spirits, collectively, are the mother-makers of a
marvelous order of the angelic hosts, the mighty seconaphim of the
superuniverse services. A Creative Spirit is the mother of the angelic orders
of a local creation; such seraphic ministers are original in each local
universe, though they are fashioned after the patterns of the central universe.
All these creators of ministering spirits are only indirectly assisted by the
central lodgment of the Infinite Spirit, the original and eternal mother of all
the angelic ministers.

The seven Supreme Spirit groups are the co-ordinators of the inhabited
creation. The association of their directing heads, the Seven Master Spirits,
appears to co-ordinate the far-flung activities of God the Sevenfold:

1. Collectively the Master Spirits near-equivalate to the divinity level of the
Trinity of Paradise Deities.

2. Individually they exhaust the primary associable possibilities of triune
Deity.

                                top of page - 206

3. As diversified representatives of the Conjoint Actor they are the
repositories of that spirit-mind-power sovereignty of the Supreme Being which
he does not yet personally exercise.

4. Through the Reflective Spirits they synchronize the superuniverse
governments of the Ancients of Days with Majeston, the Paradise center of
universal reflectivity.

5. In their participation in the individualization of the local universe Divine
Ministers, the Master Spirits contribute to the last level of God the
Sevenfold, the Creator Son-Creative Spirit union of the local universes.

Functional unity, inherent in the Conjoint Actor, is disclosed to the evolving
universes in the Seven Master Spirits, his primary personalities. But in the
perfected superuniverses of the future this unity will undoubtedly be
inseparable from the experiential sovereignty of the Supreme.

[Presented by a Divine Counselor of Uversa.]

                                top of page - 207

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³    The Seven     ³    The Supreme    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³     Maste...     ³      Tri...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
