           Urantia Book Paper 18 The Supreme Trinity Personalities
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  Paper 18 The Supreme Trinity Personalities

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

SUPREME Trinity Personalities are all created for specific service. They are
designed by the divine Trinity for the fulfillment of certain specific duties,
and they are qualified to serve with perfection of technique and finality of
devotion. There are seven orders of the Supreme Trinity Personalities:

1. Trinitized Secrets of Supremacy.

2. Eternals of Days.

3. Ancients of Days.

4. Perfections of Days.

5. Recents of Days.

6. Unions of Days.

7. Faithfuls of Days.

These beings of administrative perfection are of definite and final numbers.
Their creation is a past event; no more are being personalized.

Throughout the grand universe these Supreme Trinity Personalities represent the
administrative policies of the Paradise Trinity; they represent the justice and
are the executive judgment of the Paradise Trinity. They form an interrelated
line of administrative perfection extending from the Paradise spheres of the
Father to the headquarters worlds of the local universes and to the capitals of
their component constellations.

All Trinity-origin beings are created in Paradise perfection in all their
divine attributes. Only in the realms of experience has the passing of time
added to their equipment for cosmic service. There is never any danger of
default or risk of rebellion with Trinity-origin beings. They are of divinity
essence, and they have never been known to depart from the divine and perfect
path of personality conduct.

1. THE TRINITIZED SECRETS OF SUPREMACY

There are seven worlds in the innermost circuit of the Paradise satellites, and
each of these exalted worlds is presided over by a corps of ten Trinitized
Secrets of Supremacy. They are not creators, but they are supreme and ultimate
administrators. The conduct of the affairs of these seven fraternal spheres is
wholly committed to this corps of seventy supreme directors. Though the
offspring of the Trinity supervise these seven sacred spheres nearest Paradise,
this group of worlds is universally known as the personal circuit of the
Universal Father.

                                top of page - 208

The Trinitized Secrets of Supremacy function in groups of ten as co-ordinate
and joint directors of their respective spheres, but they also function
individually in particular fields of responsibility. The work of each of these
special worlds is divided into seven major departments, and one of these
co-ordinate rulers presides over each such division of specialized activities.
The remaining three act as the personal representatives of triune Deity in
relation to the other seven, one representing the Father, one the Son, and one
the Spirit.

Although there is a definite class resemblance which typifies the Trinitized
Secrets of Supremacy, they also disclose seven distinct group characteristics.
The ten supreme directors of Divinington affairs are reflective of the personal
character and nature of the Universal Father; and so it is with each of these
seven spheres: Each group of ten resembles that Deity or Deity association
which is characteristic of their domain. The ten directors who rule
Ascendington are reflective of the combined nature of the Father, Son, and
Spirit.

I can reveal very little about the work of these high personalities on the
seven sacred worlds of the Father, for they are truly the Secrets of Supremacy.
There are no arbitrary secrets associated with the approach to the Universal
Father, the Eternal Son, or the Infinite Spirit. The Deities are an open book
to all who attain divine perfection, but all the Secrets of Supremacy can never
be fully attained. Always will we be unable fully to penetrate the realms
containing the personality secrets of Deity association with the sevenfold
grouping of created beings.

Since the work of these supreme directors has to do with the intimate and
personal contact of the Deities with these seven basic groupings of universe
beings when domiciled on these seven special worlds or while functioning
throughout the grand universe, it is fitting that these very personal relations
and extraordinary contacts should be held sacredly secret. The Paradise
Creators respect the privacy and sanctity of personality even in their lowly
creatures. And this is true both of individuals and of the various separate
orders of personalities.

To beings of even high universe attainment these secret worlds ever remain a
test of loyalty. It is given us fully and personally to know the eternal Gods,
freely to know their characters of divinity and perfection, but it is not
granted us fully to penetrate all of the personal relations of the Paradise
Rulers with all of their creature beings.

2. THE ETERNALS OF DAYS

Each of the billion worlds of Havona is directed by a Supreme Trinity
Personality. These rulers are known as the Eternals of Days, and they number
exactly one billion, one for each of the Havona spheres. They are the offspring
of the Paradise Trinity, but like the Secrets of Supremacy there are no records
of their origin. Forever have these two groups of all-wise fathers ruled their
exquisite worlds of the Paradise-Havona system, and they function without
rotation or reassignment.

The Eternals of Days are visible to all will creatures dwelling in their
domains. They preside over the regular planetary conclaves. Periodically, and
by rotation, they visit the headquarters spheres of the seven superuniverses.
They are close of kin to, and are the divine equals of, the Ancients of Days,
who preside over the destinies of the seven supergovernments. When an Eternal
of Days is absent from his sphere, his world is directed by a Trinity Teacher
Son.

                                top of page - 209

Except for the established orders of life, such as the Havona natives and other
living creatures of the central universe, the resident Eternals of Days have
developed their respective spheres entirely in accordance with their own
personal ideas and ideals. They visit each other's planets, but they do not
copy or imitate; they are always and wholly original.

The architecture, natural embellishment, morontia structures, and spirit
creations are exclusive and unique on each sphere. Every world is a place of
everlasting beauty and is wholly unlike any other world in the central
universe. And you will each spend a longer or shorter time on each of these
unique and thrilling spheres on your way inward through Havona to Paradise. It
is natural, on your world, to speak of Paradise as upward, but it would be more
correct to refer to the divine goal of ascension as inward.

3. THE ANCIENTS OF DAYS

When mortals of time graduate from the training worlds surrounding the
headquarters of a local universe and are advanced to the educational spheres of
their superuniverse, they have progressed in spiritual development to that
point where they are able to recognize and communicate with the high spiritual
rulers and directors of these advanced realms, including the Ancients of Days.

The Ancients of Days are all basically identical; they disclose the combined
character and unified nature of the Trinity. They possess individuality and are
in personality diverse, but they do not differ from each other as do the Seven
Master Spirits. They provide the uniform directorship of the otherwise
differing seven superuniverses, each of which is a distinct, segregated, and
unique creation. The Seven Master Spirits are unlike in nature and attributes,
but the Ancients of Days, the personal rulers of the superuniverses, are all
uniform and superperfect offspring of the Paradise Trinity.

The Seven Master Spirits on high determine the nature of their respective
superuniverses, but the Ancients of Days dictate the administration of these
same superuniverses. They superimpose administrative uniformity on creative
diversity and insure the harmony of the whole in the face of the underlying
creational differences of the seven segmental groupings of the grand universe.

The Ancients of Days were all trinitized at the same time. They represent the
beginning of the personality records of the universe of universes, hence their
name--Ancients of Days. When you reach Paradise and search the written records
of the beginning of things, you will find that the first entry appearing in the
personality section is the recital of the trinitization of these twenty-one
Ancients of Days.

These high beings always govern in groups of three. There are many phases of
activity in which they work as individuals, still others in which any two can
function, but in the higher spheres of their administration they must act
jointly. They never personally leave their residential worlds, but then they do
not have to, for these worlds are the superuniverse focal points of the
far-flung reflectivity system.

The personal abodes of each trio of the Ancients of Days are located at the
point of spiritual polarity on their headquarters sphere. Such a sphere is
divided into seventy administrative sectors and has seventy divisional capitals
in which the Ancients of Days reside from time to time.

                                top of page - 210

In power, scope of authority, and extent of jurisdiction the Ancients of Days
are the most powerful and mighty of any of the direct rulers of the time-space
creations. In all the vast universe of universes they alone are invested with
the high powers of final executive judgment concerning the eternal extinction
of will creatures. And all three Ancients of Days must participate in the final
decrees of the supreme tribunal of a superuniverse.

Aside from the Deities and their Paradise associates, the Ancients of Days are
the most perfect, most versatile, and the most divinely endowed rulers in all
time-space existence. Apparently they are the supreme rulers of the
superuniverses; but they have not experientially earned this right to rule and
are therefore destined sometime to be superseded by the Supreme Being, an
experiential sovereign, whose vicegerents they will undoubtedly become.

The Supreme Being is achieving the sovereignty of the seven superuniverses by
experiential service just as a Creator Son experientially earns the sovereignty
of his local universe. But during the present age of the unfinished evolution
of the Supreme, the Ancients of Days provide the co-ordinated and perfect
administrative overcontrol of the evolving universes of time and space. And the
wisdom of originality and the initiative of individuality characterize all the
decrees and rulings of the Ancients of Days.

4. THE PERFECTIONS OF DAYS

There are just two hundred and ten Perfections of Days, and they preside over
the governments of the ten major sectors of each superuniverse. They were
trinitized for the special work of assisting the superuniverse directors, and
they rule as the immediate and personal vicegerents of the Ancients of Days.

Three Perfections of Days are assigned to each major sector capital, but unlike
the Ancients of Days, it is not necessary that all three be present at all
times. From time to time one of this trio may absent himself to confer in
person with the Ancients of Days concerning the welfare of his realm.

These triune rulers of the major sectors are peculiarly perfect in the mastery
of administrative details, hence their name--Perfections of Days. In recording
the names of these beings of the spiritual world, we are confronted with the
problem of translating into your tongue, and very often it is exceedingly
difficult to render a satisfactory translation. We dislike to use arbitrary
designations which would be meaningless to you; hence we often find it
difficult to choose a suitable name, one which will be clear to you and at the
same time be somewhat representative of the original.

The Perfections of Days have a moderate-sized corps of Divine Counselors,
Perfectors of Wisdom, and Universal Censors attached to their governments. They
have still larger numbers of Mighty Messengers, Those High in Authority, and
Those without Name and Number. But much of the routine work of major sector
affairs is carried on by the Celestial Guardians and the High Son Assistants.
These two groups are drawn from among the trinitized offspring of either
Paradise-Havona personalities or glorified mortal finaliters. Certain of these
two orders of creature-trinitized beings are retrinitized by the Paradise
Deities and then are dispatched to assist in the administration of the
superuniverse governments.

                                top of page - 211

Most of the Celestial Guardians and the High Son Assistants are assigned to the
service of the major and the minor sectors, but the Trinitized Custodians
(Trinity-embraced seraphim and midwayers) are the officers of the courts of all
three divisions, functioning in the tribunals of the Ancients of Days, the
Perfections of Days, and the Recents of Days. The Trinitized Ambassadors
(Trinity-embraced ascendant mortals of Son- or Spirit-fused nature) may be
encountered anywhere in a superuniverse, but the majority are in the service of
the minor sectors.

Before the times of the full unfolding of the governmental scheme of the seven
superuniverses, practically all administrators of the various divisions of
these governments, excepting the Ancients of Days, served apprenticeships of
varying duration under the Eternals of Days on the various worlds of the
perfect Havona universe. The later trinitized beings likewise passed through a
season of training under the Eternals of Days before they were attached to the
service of the Ancients of Days, the Perfections of Days, and the Recents of
Days. They are all seasoned, tried, and experienced administrators.

You will early see the Perfections of Days when you advance to the headquarters
of Splandon after your sojourn on the worlds of your minor sector, for these
exalted rulers are closely associated with the seventy major sector worlds of
higher training for the ascendant creatures of time. The Perfections of Days,
in person, administer the group pledges to the ascending graduates of the major
sector schools.

The work of the pilgrims of time on the worlds surrounding a major sector
headquarters is chiefly of an intellectual nature in contrast with the more
physical and material character of the training on the seven educational
spheres of a minor sector and with the spiritual undertakings on the four
hundred ninety university worlds of a superuniverse headquarters.

Although you are entered only upon the registry of the major sector of
Splandon, which embraces the local universe of your origin, you will have to
pass through every one of the ten major divisions of our superuniverse. You
will see all thirty of the Orvonton Perfections of Days before you reach
Uversa.

5. THE RECENTS OF DAYS

The Recents of Days are the youngest of the supreme directors of the
superuniverses; in groups of three they preside over the affairs of the minor
sectors. In nature they are co-ordinate with the Perfections of Days, but in
administrative authority they are subordinate. There are just twenty-one
thousand of these personally glorious and divinely efficient Trinity
personalities. They were created simultaneously, and together they passed
through their Havona training under the Eternals of Days.

The Recents of Days have a corps of associates and assistants similar to that
of the Perfections of Days. In addition they have assigned to them enormous
numbers of the various subordinate orders of celestial beings. In the
administration of the minor sectors they utilize large numbers of the resident
ascending mortals, the personnel of the various courtesy colonies, and the
various groups originating in the Infinite Spirit.

The governments of the minor sectors are very largely, though not exclusively,
concerned with the great physical problems of the superuniverses. The

                                top of page - 212

minor sector spheres are the headquarters of the Master Physical Controllers.
On these worlds ascending mortals carry on studies and experiments having to do
with an examination of the activities of the third order of the Supreme Power
Centers and of all seven orders of the Master Physical Controllers.

Since the regime of a minor sector is so extensively concerned with physical
problems, its three Recents of Days are seldom together on the capital sphere.
Most of the time one is away in conference with the Perfections of Days of the
supervising major sector or absent while representing the Ancients of Days at
the Paradise conclaves of the high Trinity-origin beings. They alternate with
the Perfections of Days in representing the Ancients of Days at the supreme
councils on Paradise. Meanwhile, another Recent of Days may be away on a tour
of inspection of the headquarters worlds of the local universes belonging to
his jurisdiction. But at least one of these rulers always remains on duty at
the headquarters of a minor sector.

You will all sometime know the three Recents of Days in charge of Ensa, your
minor sector, since you must pass through their hands on your way inward to the
training worlds of the major sectors. In ascending to Uversa, you will pass
through only one group of minor sector training spheres.

6. THE UNIONS OF DAYS

The Trinity personalities of the order of "Days" do not function in an
administrative capacity below the level of the superuniverse governments. In
the evolving local universes they act only as counselors and advisers. The
Unions of Days are a group of liaison personalities accredited by the Paradise
Trinity to the dual rulers of the local universes. Each organized and inhabited
local universe has assigned to it one of these Paradise counselors, who acts as
the representative of the Trinity, and in some respects, of the Universal
Father, to the local creation.

There are seven hundred thousand of these beings in existence, though they have
not all been commissioned. The reserve corps of the Unions of Days functions on
Paradise as the Supreme Council of Universe Adjustments.

In a special manner these Trinity observers co-ordinate the administrative
activities of all branches of the universal government, from those of the local
universes up through the sector governments to those of the superuniverse,
hence their name--Unions of Days. They make a threefold report to their
superiors: They report pertinent data of a physical and semi-intellectual
nature to the Recents of Days of their minor sector; they report intellectual
and quasi-spiritual happenings to the Perfections of Days of their major
sector; they report spiritual and semiparadisiacal matters to the Ancients of
Days at the capital of their superuniverse.

Since they are Trinity-origin beings, all of the Paradise circuits are
available to them for intercommunication, and thus are they always in touch
with each other and with all other required personalities up to the supreme
councils of Paradise.

A Union of Days is not organically connected with the government of the local
universe of his assignment. Aside from his duties as an observer, he acts only
at the request of the local authorities. He is an ex officio member of all
primary councils and all important conclaves of the local creation, but he does
not participate in the technical consideration of administrative problems.

                                top of page - 213

When a local universe is settled in light and life, its glorified beings
associate freely with the Union of Days, who then functions in an enlarged
capacity in such a realm of evolutionary perfection. But he is still primarily
a Trinity ambassador and Paradise counselor.

A local universe is directly ruled by a divine Son of dual Deity origin, but he
has constantly by his side a Paradise brother, a Trinity-origin personality. In
the event of the temporary absence of a Creator Son from the headquarters of
his local universe, the acting rulers are largely guided in their major
decisions by the counsel of their Union of Days.

7. THE FAITHFULS OF DAYS

These high Trinity-origin personalities are the Paradise advisers to the rulers
of the one hundred constellations in each local universe. There are seventy
million Faithfuls of Days, and like the Unions of Days, not all are in service.
Their Paradise reserve corps is the Advisory Commission of Interuniverse Ethics
and Self-government. Faithfuls of Days rotate in service in accordance with the
rulings of the supreme council of their reserve corps.

All that a Union of Days is to a Creator Son of a local universe, the Faithfuls
of Days are to the Vorondadek Sons who rule the constellations of that local
creation. They are supremely devoted and divinely faithful to the welfare of
their constellations of assignment, hence the name--Faithfuls of Days. They act
only as counselors; never do they participate in administrative activities
except upon the invitation of the constellation authorities. Neither are they
directly concerned in the educational ministry to the pilgrims of ascension on
the architectural training spheres surrounding a constellation headquarters.
All such undertakings are under the supervision of the Vorondadek Sons.

All Faithfuls of Days functioning in the constellations of a local universe are
under the jurisdiction of, and report directly to, the Union of Days. They do
not have a far-flung system of intercommunication, being ordinarily
self-limited to an interassociation within the limits of a local universe. Any
Faithful of Days on duty in Nebadon can and does communicate with all others of
his order on duty in this local universe.

Like the Union of Days on a universe headquarters, the Faithfuls of Days
maintain their personal residences on the constellation capitals separate from
those of the administrative directors of such realms. Their abodes are indeed
modest in comparison with the homes of the Vorondadek rulers of the
constellations.

The Faithfuls of Days are the last link in the long administrative-advisory
chain which reaches from the sacred spheres of the Universal Father near the
center of all things to the primary divisions of the local universes. The
Trinity-origin regime stops with the constellations; no such Paradise advisers
are permanently situated on their component systems or on the inhabited worlds.
These latter administrative units are wholly under the jurisdiction of beings
native to the local universes.

[Presented by a Divine Counselor of Uversa.]

                                top of page - 214

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³    The Seven     ³        The        ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³     Supre...     ³  Co-ordinate...   ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
