         Urantia Book Paper 19 The Co-ordinate Trinity-origin Beings
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Paper 19 The Co-ordinate Trinity-origin Beings

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THIS Paradise group, designated the Co-ordinate Trinity-origin Beings, embraces
the Trinity Teacher Sons, also classed among the Paradise Sons of God, three
groups of high superuniverse administrators, and the somewhat impersonal
category of the Inspired Trinity Spirits. Even the Havona natives may properly
be included in this classification of Trinity personalities along with numerous
groups of beings resident on Paradise. Those Trinity-origin beings to be
considered in this discussion are:

1. Trinity Teacher Sons.

2. Perfectors of Wisdom.

3. Divine Counselors.

4. Universal Censors.

5. Inspired Trinity Spirits.

6. Havona Natives.

7. Paradise Citizens.

Excepting the Trinity Teacher Sons and possibly the Inspired Trinity Spirits,
these groups are of definite numbers; their creation is a finished and past
event.

1. THE TRINITY TEACHER SONS

Of all the high orders of celestial personalities revealed to you, the Trinity
Teacher Sons alone act in a dual capacity. By origin of Trinity nature, in
function they are almost wholly devoted to the services of divine sonship. They
are the liaison beings who bridge the universe gulf between Trinity- and
dual-origin personalities.

While the Stationary Sons of the Trinity are of completed numbers, the Teacher
Sons are constantly increasing. What the final number of Teacher Sons will be I
do not know. I can, however, state that, at the last periodic report to Uversa,
the Paradise records indicated 21,001,624,821 of these Sons in service.

These beings are the only group of the Sons of God revealed to you whose origin
is in the Paradise Trinity. They range the central and superuniverses, and an
enormous corps is assigned to each local universe. They also serve the
individual planets as do the other Paradise Sons of God. Since the scheme of
the grand universe is not fully developed, large numbers of Teacher Sons are
held in the reserves on Paradise, and they volunteer for emergency duty and
unusual service in all divisions of the grand universe, on the lone worlds of
space, in the local and superuniverses, and on the worlds of Havona. They also
function on Paradise, but it will be more helpful to postpone their detailed
consideration until we come to the discussion of the Paradise Sons of God.

                                top of page - 215

In this connection, however, it may be noted that Teacher Sons are the supreme
co-ordinating personalities of Trinity origin. In such a far-flung universe of
universes there is always great danger of succumbing to the error of the
circumscribed viewpoint, to the evil inherent in a segmentalized conception of
reality and divinity.

For example: The human mind would ordinarily crave to approach the cosmic
philosophy portrayed in these revelations by proceeding from the simple and the
finite to the complex and the infinite, from human origins to divine destinies.
But that path does not lead to spiritual wisdom. Such a procedure is the
easiest path to a certain form of genetic knowledge, but at best it can only
reveal man's origin; it reveals little or nothing about his divine destiny.

Even in the study of man's biologic evolution on Urantia, there are grave
objections to the exclusive historic approach to his present-day status and his
current problems. The true perspective of any reality problem--human or divine,
terrestrial or cosmic--can be had only by the full and unprejudiced study and
correlation of three phases of universe reality: origin, history, and destiny.
The proper understanding of these three experiential realities affords the
basis for a wise estimate of the current status.

When the human mind undertakes to follow the philosophic technique of starting
from the lower to approach the higher, whether in biology or theology, it is
always in danger of committing four errors of reasoning:

1. It may utterly fail to perceive the final and completed evolutionary goal of
either personal attainment or cosmic destiny.

2. It may commit the supreme philosophical blunder by oversimplifying cosmic
evolutionary (experiential) reality, thus leading to the distortion of facts,
to the perversion of truth, and to the misconception of destinies.

3. The study of causation is the perusal of history. But the knowledge of how a
being becomes does not necessarily provide an intelligent understanding of the
present status and true character of such a being.

4. History alone fails adequately to reveal future development--destiny. Finite
origins are helpful, but only divine causes reveal final effects. Eternal ends
are not shown in time beginnings. The present can be truly interpreted only in
the light of the correlated past and future.

Therefore, because of these and for still other reasons, do we employ the
technique of approaching man and his planetary problems by embarkation on the
time-space journey from the infinite, eternal, and divine Paradise Source and
Center of all personality reality and all cosmic existence.

2. THE PERFECTORS OF WISDOM

The Perfectors of Wisdom are a specialized creation of the Paradise Trinity
designed to personify the wisdom of divinity in the superuniverses. There are
exactly seven billion of these beings in existence, and one billion are
assigned to each of the seven superuniverses.

In common with their co-ordinates, the Divine Counselors and the Universal
Censors, the Perfectors of Wisdom passed through the wisdom of Paradise, of
Havona, and except for Divinington, of the Father's Paradise spheres. After
these experiences the Perfectors of Wisdom were permanently assigned to the

                                top of page - 216

service of the Ancients of Days. They serve neither on Paradise nor on the
worlds of the Paradise-Havona circuits; they are wholly occupied with the
administration of the superuniverse governments.

Wherever and whenever a Perfector of Wisdom functions, there and then divine
wisdom functions. There is actuality of presence and perfection of
manifestation in the knowledge and wisdom represented in the doings of these
mighty and majestic personalities. They do not reflect the wisdom of the
Paradise Trinity; they are that wisdom. They are the sources of wisdom for all
teachers in the application of universe knowledge; they are the fountains of
discretion and the wellsprings of discrimination to the institutions of
learning and discernment in all universes.

Wisdom is twofold in origin, being derived from the perfection of divine
insight inherent in perfect beings and from the personal experience acquired by
evolutionary creatures. The Perfectors of Wisdom are the divine wisdom of the
Paradise perfection of Deity insight. Their administrative associates on
Uversa, the Mighty Messengers, Those without Name and Number, and Those High in
Authority, when acting together, are the universe wisdom of experience. A
divine being can have perfection of divine knowledge. An evolutionary mortal
can sometime attain perfection of ascendant knowledge, but neither of these
beings alone exhausts the potentials of all possible wisdom. Accordingly,
whenever in the conduct of the superuniverse it is desired to achieve the
maximum of administrative wisdom, these perfectors of the wisdom of divine
insight are always associated with those ascendant personalities who have come
up to the high responsibilities of superuniverse authority through the
experiential tribulations of evolutionary progression.

The Perfectors of Wisdom will always require this complement of experiential
wisdom for the completion of their administrative sagacity. But it has been
postulated that a high and hitherto unattained level of wisdom may possibly be
achieved by the Paradise finaliters after they are sometime inducted into the
seventh stage of spirit existence. If this inference is correct, then would
such perfected beings of evolutionary ascent undoubtedly become the most
effective universe administrators ever to be known in all creation. I believe
that such is the high destiny of finaliters.

The versatility of the Perfectors of Wisdom enables them to participate in
practically all of the celestial services of the ascendant creatures. The
Perfectors of Wisdom and my order of personality, the Divine Counselors,
together with the Universal Censors, constitute the highest orders of beings
who may and do engage in the work of revealing truth to the individual planets
and systems, whether in their earlier epochs or when settled in light and life.
From time to time we all make contact with the service of the ascending
mortals, from an initial-life planet on up through a local universe and the
superuniverse, particularly the latter.

3. THE DIVINE COUNSELORS

These Trinity-origin beings are the counsel of Deity to the realms of the seven
superuniverses. They are not reflective of the divine counsel of the Trinity;
they are that counsel. There are twenty-one billion Counselors in service, and
three billion are assigned to each superuniverse.

                                top of page - 217

Divine Counselors are the associates and equals of the Universal Censors and
the Perfectors of Wisdom, from one to seven Counselors being associated with
each of these latter personalities. All three orders participate in the
government of the Ancients of Days, including major and minor sectors, in the
local universes and constellations, and in the councils of the local system
sovereigns.

We act as individuals, as I do in inditing this statement, but we also function
as a trio whenever the occasion requires. When we act in an executive capacity,
always there are associated together a Perfector of Wisdom, a Universal Censor,
and from one to seven Divine Counselors.

One Perfector of Wisdom, seven Divine Counselors, and one Universal Censor
constitute a tribunal of Trinity divinity, the highest mobile advisory body in
the universes of time and space. Such a group of nine is known either as a
fact-finding or as a truth-revealing tribunal, and when it sits in judgment
upon a problem and renders a decision, it is just as if an Ancient of Days had
adjudicated the matter, for in all the annals of the superuniverses such a
verdict has never been reversed by the Ancients of Days.

When the three Ancients of Days function, the Paradise Trinity functions. When
the tribunal of nine arrives at a decision following its united deliberations,
to all intents and purposes the Ancients of Days have spoken. And it is in this
manner that the Paradise Rulers make personal contact, in administrative
matters and governmental regulation, with the individual worlds, systems, and
universes.

Divine Counselors are the perfection of the divine counsel of the Paradise
Trinity. We represent, in fact are, the counsel of perfection. When we are
supplemented by the experiential counsel of our associates, the perfected and
Trinity-embraced beings of evolutionary ascent, our combined conclusions are
not only complete but replete. When our united counsel has been associated,
adjudicated, confirmed, and promulgated by a Universal Censor, it is very
probable that it approaches the threshold of universal totality. Such verdicts
represent the nearest possible approach to the absolute attitude of Deity
within the time-space limits of the situation involved and the problem
concerned.

Seven Divine Counselors in liaison with a trinitized evolutionary trio--a
Mighty Messenger, One High in Authority, and One without Name and
Number--represent the nearest superuniverse approach to the union of the human
viewpoint and the divine attitude on near-paradisiacal levels of spiritual
meanings and reality values. Such close approximation of the united cosmic
attitudes of the creature and the Creator is only surpassed in the Paradise
bestowal Sons, who are, in every phase of personality experience, God and man.

4. THE UNIVERSAL CENSORS

There are exactly eight billion Universal Censors in existence. These unique
beings are the judgment of Deity. They are not merely reflective of the
decisions of perfection; they are the judgment of the Paradise Trinity. Even
the Ancients of Days do not sit in judgment except in association with the
Universal Censors.

One Censor is commissioned on each of the billion worlds of the central
universe, being attached to the planetary administration of the resident
Eternal of Days. Neither Perfectors of Wisdom nor Divine Counselors are thus
permanently attached to the Havona administrations, nor do we altogether
understand

                                top of page - 218

why Universal Censors are stationed in the central universe. Their present
activities hardly account for their assignment in Havona, and we therefore
suspect that they are there in anticipation of the needs of some future
universe age in which the Havona population may partially change.

One billion Censors are assigned to each of the seven superuniverses. Both in
an individual capacity and in association with Perfectors of Wisdom and Divine
Counselors, they operate throughout all divisions of the seven superuniverses.
Thus the Censors act on all levels of the grand universe, from the perfect
worlds of Havona to the councils of the System Sovereigns, and they are an
organic part of all dispensational adjudications of the evolutionary worlds.

Whenever and wherever a Universal Censor is present, then and there is the
judgment of Deity. And since the Censors always render their verdicts in
liaison with Perfectors of Wisdom and Divine Counselors, such decisions embrace
the united wisdom, counsel, and judgment of the Paradise Trinity. In this
juridical trio the Perfector of Wisdom would be the "I was," the Divine
Counselor the "I will be," but the Universal Censor is always "I am."

The Censors are universe totaling personalities. When a thousand witnesses have
given testimony--or a million--when the voice of wisdom has spoken and the
counsel of divinity has recorded, when the testimony of ascendant perfection
has been added, then the Censor functions, and there is immediately revealed an
unerring and divine totaling of all that has transpired; and such a disclosure
represents the divine conclusion, the sum and substance of a final and perfect
decision. Therefore, when a Censor has spoken, no one else may speak, for the
Censor has depicted the true and unmistakable total of all that has gone
before. When he speaks, there is no appeal.

Most fully do I understand the operation of the mind of a Perfector of Wisdom,
but I certainly do not fully comprehend the working of the adjudicating mind of
a Universal Censor. It appears to me that the Censors formulate new meanings
and originate new values from the association of the facts, truths, and
findings presented to them in the course of an investigation of universe
affairs. It seems probable that the Universal Censors are able to bring forth
original interpretations of the combination of perfect Creator insight and the
perfected creature experience. This association of Paradise perfection and
universe experience undoubtedly eventuates a new value in ultimates.

But this is not the end of our difficulties regarding the working of the minds
of the Universal Censors. Having made due allowances for all that we know or
conjecture about the functioning of a Censor in any given universe situation,
we find that we are still unable to predict decisions or to forecast verdicts.
We very accurately determine the probable result of the association of Creator
attitude and creature experience, but such conclusions are not always accurate
forecasts of Censor disclosures. It seems likely that the Censors are in some
manner in liaison with the Deity Absolute; we are otherwise unable to explain
many of their decisions and rulings.

Perfectors of Wisdom, Divine Counselors, and Universal Censors, together with
the seven orders of Supreme Trinity Personalities, constitute those ten groups
which have been sometimes designated Stationary Sons of the Trinity. Together
they comprise the grand corps of Trinity administrators, rulers, executives,
advisers, counselors, and judges. Their numbers slightly exceed thirty

                                top of page - 219

-seven billion. Two billion and seventy are stationed in the central universe
and just over five billion in each superuniverse.

It is very difficult to portray the functional limits of the Stationary Sons of
the Trinity. It would be incorrect to state that their acts are finite limited,
for there are transactions of superuniverse record which indicate otherwise.
They act on any level of universe administration or adjudication that may be
required by time-space conditions and that pertains to the past, present, and
future evolution of the master universe.

5. INSPIRED TRINITY SPIRITS

I will be able to tell you very little concerning the Inspired Trinity Spirits,
for they are one of the few wholly secret orders of beings in existence,
secret, no doubt, because it is impossible for them fully to reveal themselves
even to those of us whose origin is so near the source of their creation. They
come into being by the act of the Paradise Trinity and may be utilized by any
one or two of the Deities as well as by all three. We do not know whether these
Spirits are of completed numbers or are constantly increasing, but we incline
to the belief that their number is not fixed.

We fully understand neither the nature nor the conduct of the Inspired Spirits.
They may possibly belong to the category of superpersonal spirits. They seem to
operate over all known circuits and appear to act well-nigh independently of
time and space. But we know little about them except as we deduce their
character from the nature of their activities, the results of which we
certainly observe here and there in the universes.

Under certain conditions these Inspired Spirits can individualize themselves
sufficiently for recognition by beings of Trinity origin. I have seen them; but
it would never be possible for the lower orders of celestial beings to
recognize one of them. Certain circumstances also arise from time to time in
the conduct of the evolving universes in which any being of Trinity origin may
directly employ these Spirits in the furtherance of his assignments. We
therefore know that they exist, and that under certain conditions we may
command and receive their assistance, sometimes recognize their presence. But
they are not a part of the manifest and definitely revealed organization
intrusted with the conduct of the time-space universes before such material
creations are settled in light and life. They have no clearly discernible place
in the present economy or administration of the evolving seven superuniverses.
They are a secret of the Paradise Trinity

The Melchizedeks of Nebadon teach that Inspired Trinity Spirits are destined,
sometime in the eternal future, to function in the places of the Solitary
Messengers, whose ranks are slowly but certainly being depleted by their
assignment as associates of certain types of trinitized sons.

The Inspired Spirits are the solitary Spirits of the universe of universes. As
Spirits they are very much like the Solitary Messengers except that the latter
are distinct personalities. We obtain much of our knowledge of the Inspired
Spirits from the Solitary Messengers, who detect their nearness by virtue of an
inherent sensitivity to the presence of the Inspired Spirits which functions
just as unfailingly as a magnetic needle points to a magnetic pole. When a
Solitary Messenger is near an Inspired Trinity Spirit, he is conscious of a
qualitative indication of such a divine presence and also of a very definite
quantitative

                                top of page - 220

registration which enables him actually to know the classification or number of
the Spirit presence or presences.

I may relate a further interesting fact: When a Solitary Messenger is on a
planet whose inhabitants are indwelt by Thought Adjusters, as on Urantia, he is
aware of a qualitative excitation in his detection-sensitivity to spirit
presence. In such instances there is no quantitative excitation, only a
qualitative agitation. When on a planet to which Adjusters do not come, contact
with the natives does not produce any such reaction. This suggests that Thought
Adjusters are in some manner related to, or are connected with, the Inspired
Spirits of the Paradise Trinity. In some way they may possibly be associated in
certain phases of their work; but we do not really know. They both originate
near the center and source of all things, but they are not the same order of
being. Thought Adjusters spring from the Father alone; Inspired Spirits are the
offspring of the Paradise Trinity.

The Inspired Spirits do not apparently belong to the evolutionary scheme of the
individual planets or universes, and yet they seem to be almost everywhere.
Even as I am engaged in the formulation of this statement, my associated
Solitary Messenger's personal sensitivity to the presence of this order of
Spirit indicates that there is with us at this very moment, not over
twenty-five feet away, a Spirit of the Inspired order and of the third volume
of power presence. The third volume of power presence suggests to us the
probability that three Inspired Spirits are functioning in liaison.

Of more than twelve orders of beings associated with me at this time, the
Solitary Messenger is the only one aware of the presence of these mysterious
entities of the Trinity. And further, while we are thus apprised of the
nearness of these divine Spirits, we are all equally ignorant of their mission.
We really do not know whether they are merely interested observers of our
doings, or whether they are, in some manner unknown to us, actually
contributing to the success of our undertaking.

We know that the Trinity Teacher Sons are devoted to the conscious
enlightenment of universe creatures. I have arrived at the settled conclusion
that the Inspired Trinity Spirits, by superconscious techniques, are also
functioning as teachers of the realms. I am persuaded that there is a vast body
of essential spiritual knowledge, truth indispensable to high spiritual
attainment, which cannot be consciously received; self-consciousness would
effectively jeopardize the certainty of reception. If we are right in this
concept, and my entire order of being shares it, it may be the mission of these
Inspired Spirits to overcome this difficulty, to bridge this gap in the
universal scheme of moral enlightenment and spiritual advancement. We think
that these two types of Trinity-origin teachers effect some kind of liaison in
their activities, but we do not really know.

On the superuniverse training worlds and on the eternal circuits of Havona, I
have fraternized with the perfecting mortals--spiritualized and ascendant souls
from the evolutionary realms--but never have they been aware of the Inspired
Spirits, which ever and anon the powers of detection resident in the Solitary
Messengers would indicate were very near us. I have freely conversed with all
orders of the Sons of God, high and low, and they likewise are unconscious of
the admonitions of the Inspired Trinity Spirits. They can and do look back in
their experiences and recount happenings which are difficult to explain if the
action of such Spirits is not taken into account. But excepting Solitary Mes-

                                top of page - 221

engers, and sometimes Trinity-origin beings, none of the celestial family have
ever been conscious of the nearness of the Inspired Spirits.

I do not believe the Inspired Trinity Spirits are playing hide and seek with
me. They are probably trying just as hard to disclose themselves to me as I am
to communicate with them; our difficulties and limitations must be mutual and
inherent. I am satisfied that there are no arbitrary secrets in the universe;
therefore will I never cease in my efforts to solve the mystery of the
isolation of these Spirits belonging to my order of creation.

And from all this, you mortals, just now taking your first step on the eternal
journey, can well see that you must advance a long way before you will progress
by "sight" and "material" assurance. You will long use faith and be dependent
on revelation if you hope to progress quickly and safely.

6. HAVONA NATIVES

The Havona natives are the direct creation of the Paradise Trinity, and their
number is beyond the concept of your circumscribed minds. Neither is it
possible for Urantians to conceive of the inherent endowments of such divinely
perfect creatures as these Trinity-origin races of the eternal universe. You
can never truly envisage these glorious creatures; you must await your arrival
in Havona, when you can greet them as spirit comrades.

During your long sojourn on the billion worlds of Havona culture you will
develop an eternal friendship for these superb beings. And how deep is that
friendship which grows up between the lowest personal creature from the worlds
of space and these high personal beings native to the perfect spheres of the
central universe! Ascending mortals, in their long and loving association with
the Havona natives, do much to compensate for the spiritual impoverishment of
the earlier stages of mortal progression. At the same time, through their
contacts with ascending pilgrims, the Havoners gain an experience which to no
small extent overcomes the experiential handicap of having always lived a life
of divine perfection. The good to both ascending mortal and Havona native is
great and mutual.

Havona natives, like all other Trinity-origin personalities, are projected in
divine perfection, and as with other Trinity-origin personalities, the passing
of time may add to their stores of experiential endowments. But unlike the
Stationary Sons of the Trinity, Havoners may evolve in status, may have an
unrevealed future eternity-destiny. This is illustrated by those Havoners who
service-factualize capacity for fusion with a non-Adjuster Father fragment and
so qualify for membership in the Mortal Corps of the Finality. And there are
other finaliter corps open to these natives of the central universe.

The status evolution of Havona natives has occasioned much speculation on
Uversa. Since they are constantly filtering into the several Paradise Corps of
the Finality, and since no more are being created, it is apparent that the
number of natives remaining in Havona is constantly diminishing. The ultimate
consequences of these transactions have never been revealed to us, but we do
not believe that Havona will ever be entirely depleted of its natives. We have
entertained the theory that Havoners will possibly cease entering the finaliter
corps sometime during the ages of the successive creations of the outer space
levels.

                                top of page - 222

We have also entertained the thought that in these subsequent universe ages the
central universe may be peopled by a mixed group of resident beings, a
citizenship consisting only in part of the original Havona natives. We do not
know what order or type of creature may be thus destined to residential status
in the future Havona, but we have thought of:

1. The univitatia, who are at present the permanent citizens of the local
universe constellations.

2. Future types of mortals who may be born on the inhabited spheres of the
superuniverses in the flowering of the ages of light and life.

3. The incoming spiritual aristocracy of the successive outer universes.

We know that the Havona of the previous universe age was somewhat different
from the Havona of the present age. We deem it no more than reasonable to
assume that we are now witnessing those slow changes in the central universe
that are anticipatory of the ages to come. One thing is certain: The universe
is nonstatic; only God is changeless.

7. PARADISE CITIZENS

There are resident on Paradise numerous groups of superb beings, the Paradise
Citizens. They are not directly concerned with the scheme of perfecting
ascending will creatures and are not, therefore, fully revealed to Urantia
mortals. There are more than three thousand orders of these supernal
intelligences, the last group having been personalized simultaneously with the
mandate of the Trinity which promulgated the creative plan of the seven
superuniverses of time and space.

Paradise Citizens and Havona natives are sometimes designated collectively as
Paradise-Havona personalities.

This completes the story of those beings who are brought into existence by the
Paradise Trinity. None of them have ever gone astray. And yet, in the highest
sense, they are all freewill endowed.

Trinity-origin beings possess prerogatives of transit which make them
independent of transport personalities, such as seraphim. We all possess the
power of moving about freely and quickly in the universe of universes.
Excepting the Inspired Trinity Spirits, we cannot attain the almost
unbelievable velocity of the Solitary Messengers, but we are able so to utilize
the sum total of the transport facilities in space that we can reach any point
in a superuniverse, from its headquarters, in less than one year of Urantia
time. It required 109 days of your time for me to journey from Uversa to
Urantia.

Through these same avenues we are enabled to intercommunicate instantaneously.
Our entire order of creation finds itself in touch with every individual
embraced within every division of the children of the Paradise Trinity save
only the Inspired Spirits.

[Presented by a Divine Counselor of Uversa.]

                                top of page - 223

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   The Supreme    ³   The Paradise    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Tri...      ³       So...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
