                Urantia Book Paper 20 The Paradise Sons Of God
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Paper 20 The Paradise Sons Of God

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

AS THEY function in the superuniverse of Orvonton, the Sons of God are
classified under three general heads:

1. The Descending Sons of God.

2. The Ascending Sons of God.

3. The Trinitized Sons of God.

Descending orders of sonship include personalities who are of direct and divine
creation. Ascending sons, such as mortal creatures, achieve this status by
experiential participation in the creative technique known as evolution.
Trinitized Sons are a group of composite origin which includes all beings
embraced by the Paradise Trinity even though not of direct Trinity origin.

1. THE DESCENDING SONS OF GOD

All descending Sons of God have high and divine origins. They are dedicated to
the descending ministry of service on the worlds and systems of time and space,
there to facilitate the progress in the Paradise climb of the lowly creatures
of evolutionary origin--the ascending sons of God. Of the numerous orders of
descending Sons, seven will be depicted in these narratives. Those Sons who
come forth from the Deities on the central Isle of Light and Life are called
the Paradise Sons of God and embrace the following three orders:

1. Creator Sons--the Michaels.

2. Magisterial Sons--the Avonals.

3. Trinity Teacher Sons--the Daynals.

The remaining four orders of descending sonship are known as the Local Universe
Sons of God:

4. Melchizedek Sons.

5. Vorondadek Sons.

6. Lanonandek Sons.

7. The Life Carriers.

Melchizedeks are the joint offspring of a local universe Creator Son, Creative
Spirit, and Father Melchizedek. Both Vorondadeks and Lanonandeks are brought
into being by a Creator Son and his Creative Spirit associate. Vorondadeks are
best known as the Most Highs, the Constellation Fathers; Lanonandeks as System
Sovereigns and as Planetary Princes. The threefold order of Life Carriers is
brought into being by a Creator Son and Creative Spirit as-

                                top of page - 224

sociated with one of the three Ancients of Days of the superuniverse of
jurisdiction. But the natures and activities of these local Universe Sons of
God are more properly portrayed in those papers dealing with the affairs of the
local creations.

The Paradise Sons of God are of threefold origin: The primary or Creator Sons
are brought into being by the Universal Father and the Eternal Son; the
secondary or Magisterial Sons are children of the Eternal Son and the Infinite
Spirit; the Trinity Teacher Sons are the offspring of the Father, Son, and
Spirit. From the standpoint of service, worship, and supplication the Paradise
Sons are as one; their spirit is one, and their work is identical in quality
and completeness.

As the Paradise orders of Days proved to be divine administrators, so have the
orders of Paradise Sons revealed themselves as divine ministers--creators,
servers, bestowers, judges, teachers, and truth revealers. They range the
universe of universes from the shores of the eternal Isle to the inhabited
worlds of time and space, performing manifold services in the central and
superuniverses not disclosed in these narratives. They are variously organized,
dependent on the nature and whereabouts of their service, but in a local
universe both Magisterial and Teacher Sons serve under the direction of the
Creator Son who presides over that domain.

The Creator Sons seem to possess a spiritual endowment centering in their
persons, which they control and which they can bestow, as did your own Creator
Son when he poured out his spirit upon all mortal flesh on Urantia. Each
Creator Son is endowed with this spiritual drawing power in his own realm; he
is personally conscious of every act and emotion of every descending Son of God
serving in his domain. Here is a divine reflection, a local universe
duplication, of that absolute spiritual drawing power of the Eternal Son which
enables him to reach out to make and maintain contact with all his Paradise
Sons, no matter where they may be in all the universe of universes.

The Paradise Creator Sons serve not only as Sons in their descending
ministrations of service and bestowal, but when they have completed their
bestowal careers, each functions as a universe Father in his own creation,
while the other Sons of God continue the service of bestowal and spiritual
uplifting designed to win the planets, one by one, to the willing recognition
of the loving rule of the Universal Father, culminating in creature
consecration to the will of the Paradise Father and in planetary loyalty to the
universe sovereignty of his Creator Son.

In a sevenfold Creator Son, Creator and creature are forever blended in
understanding, sympathetic, and merciful association. The entire order of
Michael, the Creator Sons, is so unique that the consideration of their natures
and activities will be reserved to the next paper in this series, while this
narrative will be chiefly concerned with the two remaining orders of Paradise
sonship: the Magisterial Sons and the Trinity Teacher Sons.

2. THE MAGISTERIAL SONS

Every time an original and absolute concept of being formulated by the Eternal
Son unites with a new and divine ideal of loving service conceived by the
Infinite Spirit, a new and original Son of God, a Paradise Magisterial Son, is
produced. These Sons constitute the order of Avonals in contradistinction to
the order of Michael, the Creator Sons. Though not creators in the personal

                                top of page - 225

sense, they are closely associated with the Michaels in all their work. The
Avonals are planetary ministers and judges, the magistrates of the time-space
realms--of all races, to all worlds, and in all universes.

We have reasons for believing that the total number of Magisterial Sons in the
grand universe is about one billion. They are a self-governing order, being
directed by their supreme council on Paradise, which is made up of experienced
Avonals drawn from the services of all universes. But when assigned to, and
commissioned in, a local universe, they serve under the direction of the
Creator Son of that domain.

Avonals are the Paradise Sons of service and bestowal to the individual planets
of the local universes. And since each Avonal Son has an exclusive personality,
since no two are alike, their work is individually unique in the realms of
their sojourn, where they are often incarnated in the likeness of mortal flesh
and sometimes are born of earthly mothers on the evolutionary worlds.

In addition to their services on the higher administrative levels, the Avonals
have a threefold function on the inhabited worlds:

1. Judicial Actions. They act at the close of the planetary dispensations. In
time, scores--hundreds--of such missions may be executed on each individual
world, and they may go to the same or to other worlds times without number as
dispensation terminators, liberators of the sleeping survivors.

2. Magisterial Missions. A planetary visitation of this type usually occurs
prior to the arrival of a bestowal Son. On such a mission an Avonal appears as
an adult of the realm by a technique of incarnation not involving mortal birth.
Subsequent to this first and usual magisterial visit, Avonals may repeatedly
serve in a magisterial capacity on the same planet both before and after the
appearance of the bestowal Son. On these additional magisterial missions an
Avonal may or may not appear in material and visible form, but on none of them
will he be born into the world as a helpless babe.

3. Bestowal Missions. The Avonal Sons do all, at least once, bestow themselves
upon some mortal race on some evolutionary world. Judicial visits are numerous,
magisterial missions may be plural, but on each planet there appears but one
bestowal Son. Bestowal Avonals are born of woman as Michael of Nebadon was
incarnated on Urantia.

There is no limit to the number of times the Avonal Sons may serve on
magisterial and on bestowal missions, but usually, when the experience has been
seven times traversed, there is suspension in favor of those who have had less
of such service. These Sons of multiple bestowal experience are then assigned
to the high personal council of a Creator Son, thus becoming participants in
the administration of universe affairs.

In all their work for and on the inhabited worlds, the Magisterial Sons are
assisted by two orders of local universe creatures, the Melchizedeks and the
archangels, while on bestowal missions they are also accompanied by the
Brilliant Evening Stars, likewise of origin in the local creations. In every
planetary effort the secondary Paradise Sons, the Avonals, are supported by the
full power and authority of a primary Paradise Son, the Creator Son of their
local universe of service. To all intents and purposes their work on the
inhabited spheres is just as effective and acceptable as would have been the
service of a Creator Son upon such worlds of mortal habitation.

                                top of page - 226

3. JUDICIAL ACTIONS

The Avonals are known as Magisterial Sons because they are the high magistrates
of the realms, the adjudicators of the successive dispensations of the worlds
of time. They preside over the awakening of the sleeping survivors, sit in
judgment on the realm, bring to an end a dispensation of suspended justice,
execute the mandates of an age of probationary mercy, reassign the space
creatures of planetary ministry to the tasks of the new dispensation, and
return to the headquarters of their local universe upon the completion of their
mission.

When they sit in judgment on the destinies of an age, the Avonals decree the
fate of the evolutionary races, but though they may render judgments
extinguishing the identity of personal creatures, they do not execute such
sentences. Verdicts of this nature are executed by none but the authorities of
a superuniverse.

The arrival of a Paradise Avonal on an evolutionary world for the purpose of
terminating a dispensation and of inaugurating a new era of planetary
progression is not necessarily either a magisterial mission or a bestowal
mission. Magisterial missions sometimes, and bestowal missions always, are
incarnations; that is, on such assignments the Avonals serve on a planet in
material form--literally. Their other visits are "technical," and in this
capacity an Avonal is not incarnated for planetary service. If a Magisterial
Son comes solely as a dispensational adjudicator, he arrives on a planet as a
spiritual being, invisible to the material creatures of the realm. Such
technical visits occur repeatedly in the long history of an inhabited world.

Avonal Sons may act as planetary judges prior to both the magisterial and
bestowal experiences. On either of these missions, however, the incarnated Son
will judge the passing planetary age; likewise does a Creator Son when
incarnated on a mission of bestowal in the likeness of mortal flesh. When a
Paradise Son visits an evolutionary world and becomes like one of its people,
his presence terminates a dispensation and constitutes a judgment of the realm.

4. MAGISTERIAL MISSIONS

Prior to the planetary appearance of a bestowal Son, an inhabited world is
usually visited by a Paradise Avonal on a magisterial mission. If it is an
initial magisterial visitation, the Avonal is always incarnated as a material
being. He appears on the planet of assignment as a full-fledged male of the
mortal races, a being fully visible to, and in physical contact with, the
mortal creatures of his day and generation. Throughout a magisterial
incarnation the connection of the Avonal Son with the local and the universal
spiritual forces is complete and unbroken.

A planet may experience many magisterial visitations both before and after the
appearance of a bestowal Son. It may be visited many times by the same or other
Avonals, acting as dispensational adjudicators, but such technical missions of
judgment are neither bestowal nor magisterial, and the Avonals are never
incarnated at such times. Even when a planet is blessed with repeated
magisterial missions, the Avonals do not always submit to mortal incarnation;
and when they do serve in the likeness of mortal flesh, they always appear as
adult beings of the realm; they are not born of woman.

                                top of page - 227

When incarnated on either bestowal or magisterial missions, the Paradise Sons
have experienced Adjusters, and these Adjusters are different for each
incarnation. The Adjusters that occupy the minds of the incarnated Sons of God
can never hope for personality through fusion with the human-divine beings of
their indwelling, but they are often personalized by fiat of the Universal
Father. Such Adjusters form the supreme Divinington council of direction for
the administration, identification, and dispatch of Mystery Monitors to the
inhabited realms. They also receive and accredit Adjusters on their return to
the "bosom of the Father" upon the mortal dissolution of their earthly
tabernacles. In this way the faithful Adjusters of the world judges become the
exalted chiefs of their kind.

Urantia has never been host to an Avonal Son on a magisterial mission. Had
Urantia followed the general plan of inhabited worlds, it would have been
blessed with a magisterial mission sometime between the days of Adam and the
bestowal of Christ Michael. But the regular sequence of Paradise Sons on your
planet was wholly deranged by the appearance of your Creator Son on his
terminal bestowal nineteen hundred years ago.

Urantia may yet be visited by an Avonal commissioned to incarnate on a
magisterial mission, but regarding the future appearance of Paradise Sons, not
even "the angels in heaven know the time or manner of such visitations," for a
Michael-bestowal world becomes the individual and personal ward of a Master Son
and, as such, is wholly subject to his own plans and rulings. And with your
world, this is further complicated by Michael's promise to return. Regardless
of the misunderstandings about the Urantian sojourn of Michael of Nebadon, one
thing is certainly authentic--his promise to come back to your world. In view
of this prospect, only time can reveal the future order of the visitations of
the Paradise Sons of God on Urantia.

5. BESTOWAL OF THE PARADISE SONS OF GOD

The Eternal Son is the eternal Word of God. The Eternal Son is the perfect
expression of the "first" absolute and infinite thought of his eternal Father.
When a personal duplication or divine extension of this Original Son starts on
a bestowal mission of mortal incarnation, it becomes literally true that the
divine "Word is made flesh," and that the Word thus dwells among the lowly
beings of animal origin.

On Urantia there is a widespread belief that the purpose of a Son's bestowal
is, in some manner, to influence the attitude of the Universal Father. But your
enlightenment should indicate that this is not true. The bestowals of the
Avonal and the Michael Sons are a necessary part of the experiential process
designed to make these Sons safe and sympathetic magistrates and rulers of the
peoples and planets of time and space. The career of sevenfold bestowal is the
supreme goal of all Paradise Creator Sons. And all Magisterial Sons are
motivated by this same spirit of service which so abundantly characterizes the
primary Creator Sons and the Eternal Son of Paradise.

Some order of Paradise Son must be bestowed upon each mortal-inhabited world in
order to make it possible for Thought Adjusters to indwell the minds of all
normal human beings on that sphere, for the Adjusters do not come to all bona
fide human beings until the Spirit of Truth has been poured out upon all flesh;
and the sending of the Spirit of Truth is dependent upon the return to

                                top of page - 228

universe headquarters of a Paradise Son who has successfully executed a mission
of mortal bestowal upon an evolving world.

During the course of the long history of an inhabited planet, many
dispensational adjudications will take place, and more than one magisterial
mission may occur, but ordinarily only once will a bestowal Son serve on the
sphere. It is only required that each inhabited world have one bestowal Son
come to live the full mortal life from birth to death. Sooner or later,
regardless of spiritual status, every mortal-inhabited world is destined to
become host to a Magisterial Son on a bestowal mission except the one planet in
each local universe whereon a Creator Son elects to make his mortal bestowal.

Understanding more about the bestowal Sons, you discern why so much interest
attaches to Urantia in the history of Nebadon. Your small and insignificant
planet is of local universe concern simply because it is the mortal home world
of Jesus of Nazareth. It was the scene of the final and triumphant bestowal of
your Creator Son, the arena in which Michael won the supreme personal
sovereignty of the universe of Nebadon.

At the headquarters of his local universe a Creator Son, especially after the
completion of his own mortal bestowal, spends much of his time in counseling
and instructing the college of associate Sons, the Magisterial Sons and others.
In love and devotion, with tender mercy and affectionate consideration, these
Magisterial Sons bestow themselves upon the worlds of space. And in no way are
these planetary services inferior to the mortal bestowals of the Michaels. It
is true that your Creator Son selected for the realm of his final adventure in
creature experience one which had had unusual misfortunes. But no planet could
ever be in such a condition that it would require the bestowal of a Creator Son
to effect its spiritual rehabilitation. Any Son of the bestowal group would
have equally sufficed, for in all their work on the worlds of a local universe
the Magisterial Sons are just as divinely effective and all wise as would have
been their Paradise brother, the Creator Son.

Though the possibility of disaster always attends these Paradise Sons during
their bestowal incarnations, I have yet to see the record of the failure or
default of either a Magisterial or a Creator Son on a mission of bestowal. Both
are of origin too close to absolute perfection to fail. They indeed assume the
risk, really become like the mortal creatures of flesh and blood and thereby
gain the unique creature experience, but within the range of my observation
they always succeed. They never fail to achieve the goal of the bestowal
mission. The story of their bestowal and planetary service throughout Nebadon
constitutes the most noble and fascinating chapter in the history of your local
universe.

6. THE MORTAL-BESTOWAL CAREERS

The method whereby a Paradise Son becomes ready for mortal incarnation as a
bestowal Son, becomes enmothered on the bestowal planet, is a universal
mystery; and any effort to detect the working of this Sonarington technique is
doomed to meet with certain failure. Let the sublime knowledge of the mortal
life of Jesus of Nazareth sink into your souls, but waste no thought in useless
speculation as to how this mysterious incarnation of Michael of Nebadon was
effected. Let us all rejoice in the knowledge and assurance that such
achievements are

                                top of page - 229

possible to the divine nature and waste no time on futile conjectures about the
technique employed by divine wisdom to effect such phenomena.

On a mortal-bestowal mission a Paradise Son is always born of woman and grows
up as a male child of the realm, as Jesus did on Urantia. These Sons of supreme
service all pass from infancy through youth to manhood just as does a human
being. In every respect they become like the mortals of the race into which
they are born. They make petitions to the Father as do the children of the
realms in which they serve. From a material viewpoint, these human-divine Sons
live ordinary lives with just one exception: They do not beget offspring on the
worlds of their sojourn; that is a universal restriction imposed on all orders
of the Paradise bestowal Sons.

As Jesus worked on your world as the carpenter's son, so do other Paradise Sons
labor in various capacities on their bestowal planets. You could hardly think
of a vocation that has not been followed by some Paradise Son in the course of
his bestowal on some one of the evolutionary planets of time.

When a bestowal Son has mastered the experience of living the mortal life when
he has achieved perfection of attunement with his indwelling Adjuster,
thereupon he begins that part of his planetary mission designed to illuminate
the minds and to inspire the souls of his brethren in the flesh. As teachers,
these Sons are exclusively devoted to the spiritual enlightenment of the mortal
races on the worlds of their sojourn.

The mortal-bestowal careers of the Michaels and the Avonals, while comparable
in most respects, are not identical in all: Never does a Magisterial Son
proclaim, "Whosoever has seen the Son has seen the Father," as did your Creator
Son when on Urantia and in the flesh. But a bestowed Avonal does declare,
"Whosoever has seen me has seen the Eternal Son of God." The Magisterial Sons
are not of immediate descent from the Universal Father, nor do they incarnate
subject to the Father's will; always do they bestow themselves as Paradise Sons
subject to the will of the Eternal Son of Paradise.

When the bestowal Sons, Creator or Magisterial, enter the portals of death,
they reappear on the third day. But you should not entertain the idea that they
always meet with the tragic end encountered by the Creator Son who sojourned on
your world nineteen hundred years ago. The extraordinary and unusually cruel
experience through which Jesus of Nazareth passed has caused Urantia to become
locally known as "the world of the cross." It is not necessary that such
inhuman treatment be accorded a Son of God, and the vast majority of planets
have afforded them a more considerate reception, allowing them to finish their
mortal careers, terminate the age, adjudicate the sleeping survivors, and
inaugurate a new dispensation, without imposing a violent death. A bestowal Son
must encounter death, must pass through the whole of the actual experience of
mortals of the realms, but it is not a requirement of the divine plan that this
death be either violent or unusual.

When bestowal Sons are not put to death by violence, they voluntarily
relinquish their lives and pass through the portals of death, not to satisfy
the demands of "stern justice" or "divine wrath," but rather to complete the
bestowal, "to drink the cup" of the career of incarnation and personal
experience in all that constitutes a creature's life as it is lived on the
planets of mortal existence. Bestowal is a planetary and a universe necessity,
and physical death is nothing more than a necessary part of a bestowal mission.

                                top of page - 230

When the mortal incarnation is finished, the Avonal of service proceeds to
Paradise, is accepted by the Universal Father, returns to the local universe of
assignment, and is acknowledged by the Creator Son. Thereupon the bestowal
Avonal and the Creator Son send their conjoint Spirit of Truth to function in
the hearts of the mortal races dwelling on the bestowal world. In the
presovereignty ages of a local universe, this is the joint spirit of both Sons,
implemented by the Creative Spirit. It differs somewhat from the Spirit of
Truth which characterizes the local universe ages following a Michael's seventh
bestowal.

Upon the completion of a Creator Son's final bestowal the Spirit of Truth
previously sent into all Avonal-bestowal worlds of that local universe changes
in nature, becoming more literally the spirit of the sovereign Michael. This
phenomenon takes place concurrently with the liberation of the Spirit of Truth
for service on the Michael-mortal-bestowal planet. Thereafter, each world
honored by a Magisterial bestowal will receive the same spirit Comforter from
the sevenfold Creator Son, in association with that Magisterial Son, which it
would have received had the local universe Sovereign personally incarnated as
its bestowal Son.

7. THE TRINITY TEACHER SONS

These highly personal and highly spiritual Paradise Sons are brought into being
by the Paradise Trinity. They are known in Havona as the order of Daynals. In
Orvonton they are of record as Trinity Teacher Sons, so named because of their
parentage. On Salvington they are sometimes denominated the Paradise Spiritual
Sons.

In numbers the Teacher Sons are constantly increasing. The last universal
census broadcast gave the number of these Trinity Sons functioning in the
central and superuniverses as a little more than twenty-one billion, and this
is exclusive of the Paradise reserves, which include more than one third of all
Trinity Teacher Sons in existence.

The Daynal order of sonship is not an organic part of the local or
superuniverse administrations. Its members are neither creators nor retrievers,
neither judges nor rulers. They are not so much concerned with universe
administration as with moral enlightenment and spiritual development. They are
the universal educators, being dedicated to the spiritual awakening and moral
guidance of all realms. Their ministry is intimately interrelated with that of
the personalities of the Infinite Spirit and is closely associated with the
Paradise ascension of creature beings.

These Sons of the Trinity partake of the combined natures of the three Paradise
Deities, but in Havona they seem more to reflect the nature of the Universal
Father. In the superuniverses they seem to portray the nature of the Eternal
Son, while in the local creations they appear to show forth the character of
the Infinite Spirit. In all universes they are the embodiment of service and
the discretion of wisdom.

Unlike their Paradise brethren, Michaels and Avonals, Trinity Teacher Sons
receive no preliminary training in the central universe. They are dispatched
directly to the headquarters of the superuniverses and from there are
commissioned for service in some local universe. In their ministry to these
evolutionary realms they utilize the combined spiritual influence of a Creator
Son and the associated Magisterial Sons, for the Daynals do not possess a
spiritual drawing power in and of themselves.

                                top of page - 231

8. LOCAL UNIVERSE MINISTRY OF THE DAYNALS

The Paradise Spiritual Sons are unique Trinity-origin beings and the only
Trinity creatures to be so completely associated with the conduct of the
dual-origin universes. They are affectionately devoted to the educational
ministry to mortal creatures and the lower orders of spiritual beings. They
begin their labors in the local systems and, in accordance with experience and
achievement, are advanced inward through the constellation service to the
highest work of the local creation. Upon certification they may become
spiritual ambassadors representing the local universes of their service.

The exact number of Teacher Sons in Nebadon I do not know; there are many
thousands of them. Many of the heads of departments in the Melchizedek schools
belong to this order, while the combined staff of the regularly constituted
University of Salvington embraces over one hundred thousand including these
Sons. Large numbers are stationed on the various morontia-training worlds, but
they are not wholly occupied with the spiritual and intellectual advancement of
mortal creatures; they are equally concerned with the instruction of seraphic
beings and other natives of the local creations. Many of their assistants are
drawn from the ranks of the creature-trinitized beings.

The Teacher Sons compose the faculties who administer all examinations and
conduct all tests for the qualification and certification of all subordinate
phases of universe service, from the duties of outpost sentinels to those of
star students. They conduct an agelong course of training, ranging from the
planetary courses up to the high College of Wisdom located on Salvington.
Recognition indicative of effort and attainment is granted to all, ascending
mortal or ambitious cherubim, who complete these adventures in wisdom and
truth.

In all universes all the Sons of God are beholden to these ever-faithful and
universally efficient Trinity Teacher Sons. They are the exalted teachers of
all spirit personalities, even the tried and true teachers of the Sons of God
themselves. But of the endless details of the duties and functions of the
Teacher Sons I can hardly instruct you. The vast domain of Daynal-sonship
activities will be better understood on Urantia when you are more advanced in
intelligence, and after the spiritual isolation of your planet has been
terminated.

9. PLANETARY SERVICE OF THE DAYNALS

When the progress of events on an evolutionary world indicates that the time is
ripe to initiate a spiritual age, the Trinity Teacher Sons always volunteer for
this service. You are not familiar with this order of sonship because Urantia
has never experienced a spiritual age, a millennium of cosmic enlightenment.
But the Teacher Sons even now visit your world for the purpose of formulating
plans concerning their projected sojourn on your sphere. They will be due to
appear on Urantia after its inhabitants have gained comparative deliverance
from the shackles of animalism and from the fetters of materialism.

Trinity Teacher Sons have nothing to do with terminating planetary
dispensations. They neither judge the dead nor translate the living, but on
each planetary mission they are accompanied by a Magisterial Son who performs
these services. Teacher Sons are wholly concerned with the initiation of a
spiritual age, with the dawn of the era of spiritual realities on an
evolutionary planet.

                                top of page - 232

They make real the spiritual counterparts of material knowledge and temporal
wisdom.

The Teacher Sons usually remain on their visitation planets for one thousand
years of planetary time. One Teacher Son presides over the planetary millennial
reign and is assisted by seventy associates of his order. The Daynals do not
incarnate or otherwise so materialize themselves as to be visible to mortal
beings; therefore is contact with the world of visitation maintained through
the activities of the Brilliant Evening Stars, local universe personalities who
are associated with the Trinity Teacher Sons.

The Daynals may return many times to an inhabited world, and following their
final mission the planet will be ushered into the settled status of a sphere of
light and life, the evolutionary goal of all the mortal-inhabited worlds of the
present universe age. The Mortal Corps of the Finality has much to do with the
spheres settled in light and life, and their planetary activities touch upon
those of the Teacher Sons. Indeed, the whole order of Daynal sonship is
intimately connected with all phases of finaliter activities in the
evolutionary creations of time and space.

The Trinity Teacher Sons seem to be so completely identified with the regime of
mortal progression through the earlier stages of evolutionary ascension that we
are often led to speculate regarding their possible association with the
finaliters in the undisclosed career of the future universes. We observe that
the administrators of the superuniverses are part Trinity-origin personalities
and part Trinity-embraced ascendant evolutionary creatures. We firmly believe
that the Teacher Sons and the finaliters are now engaged in acquiring the
experience of time-association which may be the preliminary training to prepare
them for close association in some unrevealed future destiny. On Uversa it is
our belief that, when the superuniverses are finally settled in light and life,
these Paradise Teacher Sons, who have become so thoroughly familiar with the
problems of evolutionary worlds and have been so long associated with the
career of evolutionary mortals, will probably be transferred to eternal
association with the Paradise Corps of the Finality.

10. UNITED MINISTRY OF THE PARADISE SONS

All the Paradise Sons of God are divine in origin and in nature. The work of
each Paradise Son in behalf of each world is just as if the Son of service were
the first and only Son of God.

The Paradise Sons are the divine presentation of the acting natures of the
three persons of Deity to the domains of time and space. The Creator,
Magisterial, and Teacher Sons are the gifts of the eternal Deities to the
children of men and to all other universe creatures of ascension potential.
These Sons of God are the divine ministers who are unceasingly devoted to the
work of helping the creatures of time attain the high spiritual goal of
eternity.

In the Creator Sons the love of the Universal Father is blended with the mercy
of the Eternal Son and is disclosed to the local universes in the creative
power, loving ministry, and understanding sovereignty of the Michaels. In the
Magisterial Sons the mercy of the Eternal Son, united with the ministry of the
Infinite Spirit, is revealed to the evolutionary domains in the careers of
these Avonals of judgment, service, and bestowal. In the Trinity Teacher Sons
the

                                top of page - 233

love, mercy, and ministry of the three Paradise Deities are co-ordinated on the
highest time-space value-levels and are presented to the universes as living
truth, divine goodness, and true spiritual beauty.

In the local universes these orders of sonship collaborate to effect the
revelation of the Deities of Paradise to the creatures of space: As the Father
of a local universe, a Creator Son portrays the infinite character of the
Universal Father. As the bestowal Sons of mercy, the Avonals reveal the
matchless nature of the Eternal Son of infinite compassion. As the true
teachers of ascending personalities, the Trinity Daynal Sons disclose the
teacher personality of the Infinite Spirit. In their divinely perfect
co-operation, Michaels, Avonals, and Daynals are contributing to the
actualization and revelation of the personality and sovereignty of God the
Supreme in and to the time-space universes. In the harmony of their triune
activities these Paradise Sons of God ever function in the vanguard of the
personalities of Deity as they follow the never-ending expansion of the
divinity of the First Great Source and Center from the everlasting Isle of
Paradise into the unknown depths of space.

[Presented by a Perfector of Wisdom from Uversa.]

                                top of page - 234

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³       The        ³   The Paradise    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³  Co-ordinate...  ³       Cr...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
