               Urantia Book Paper 21 The Paradise Creator Sons
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Paper 21 The Paradise Creator Sons

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE Creator Sons are the makers and rulers of the local universes of time and
space. These universe creators and sovereigns are of dual origin, embodying the
characteristics of God the Father and God the Son. But each Creator Son is
different from every other; each is unique in nature as well as in personality;
each is the "only-begotten Son" of the perfect deity ideal of his origin.

In the vast work of organizing, evolving, and perfecting a local universe,
these high Sons always enjoy the sustaining approval of the Universal Father.
The relationship of the Creator Sons with their Paradise Father is touching and
superlative. No doubt the profound affection of the Deity parents for their
divine progeny is the wellspring of that beautiful and well-nigh divine love
which even mortal parents bear their children.

These primary Paradise Sons are personalized as Michaels. As they go forth from
Paradise to found their universes, they are known as Creator Michaels. When
settled in supreme authority, they are called Master Michaels. Sometimes we
refer to the sovereign of your universe of Nebadon as Christ Michael. Always
and forever do they reign after the "order of Michael," that being the
designation of the first Son of their order and nature.

The original or first-born Michael has never experienced incarnation as a
material being, but seven times he passed through the experience of spiritual
creature ascent on the seven circuits of Havona, advancing from the outer
spheres to the innermost circuit of the central creation. The order of Michael
knows the grand universe from one end to the other; there is no essential
experience of any of the children of time and space in which the Michaels have
not personally participated; they are in fact partakers not only of the divine
nature but also of your nature, meaning all natures, from the highest to the
lowest.

The original Michael is the presiding head of the primary Paradise Sons when
they assemble for conference at the center of all things. Not long since on
Uversa we recorded a universal broadcast of a conclave extraordinary on the
eternal Isle of one hundred fifty thousand Creator Sons assembled in the
parental presence and engaged in deliberations having to do with the progress
of the unification and stabilization of the universe of universes. This was a
selected group of Sovereign Michaels, sevenfold bestowal Sons.

1. ORIGIN AND NATURE OF CREATOR SONS

When the fullness of absolute spiritual ideation in the Eternal Son encounters
the fullness of absolute personality concept in the Universal Father, when such
a creative union is finally and fully attained, when such absolute identity of
spirit

                                top of page - 235

and such infinite oneness of personality concept occur, then, right then and
there, without the loss of anything of personality or prerogative by either of
the infinite Deities, there flashes into full-fledged being a new and original
Creator Son, the only-begotten Son of the perfect ideal and the powerful idea
whose union produces this new creator personality of power and perfection.

Each Creator Son is the only-begotten and only-begettable offspring of the
perfect union of the original concepts of the two infinite and eternal and
perfect minds of the ever-existent Creators of the universe of universes. There
never can be another such Son because each Creator Son is the unqualified,
finished, and final expression and embodiment of all of every phase of every
feature of every possibility of every divine reality that could, throughout all
eternity, ever be found in, expressed by, or evolved from, those divine
creative potentials which united to bring this Michael Son into existence. Each
Creator Son is the absolute of the united deity concepts which constitute his
divine origin.

The divine natures of these Creator Sons are, in principle, derived equally
from the attributes of both Paradise parents. All partake of the fullness of
the divine nature of the Universal Father and of the creative prerogatives of
the Eternal Son, but as we observe the practical outworking of the Michael
functions in the universes, we discern apparent differences. Some Creator Sons
appear to be more like God the Father; others more like God the Son. For
example: The trend of administration in the universe of Nebadon suggests that
its Creator and ruling Son is one whose nature and character more resemble that
of the Eternal Mother Son. It should be further stated that some universes are
presided over by Paradise Michaels who appear equally to resemble God the
Father and God the Son. And these observations are in no sense implied
criticisms; they are simply a recording of fact.

I do not know the exact number of Creator Sons in existence, but I have good
reasons for believing that there are more than seven hundred thousand. Now, we
know that there are exactly seven hundred thousand Unions of Days and no more
are being created. We also observe that the ordained plans of the present
universe age seem to indicate that one Union of Days is to be stationed in each
local universe as the counseling ambassador of the Trinity. We note further
that the constantly increasing number of Creator Sons already exceeds the
stationary number of the Unions of Days. But concerning the destiny of the
Michaels beyond seven hundred thousand, we have never been informed.

2. THE CREATORS OF LOCAL UNIVERSES

The Paradise Sons of the primary order are the designers, creators, builders,
and administrators of their respective domains, the local universes of time and
space, the basic creative units of the seven evolutionary superuniverses. A
Creator Son is permitted to choose the space site of his future cosmic
activity, but before he may begin even the physical organization of his
universe, he must spend a long period of observation devoted to the study of
the efforts of his older brothers in various creations located in the
superuniverse of his projected action. And prior to all this, the Michael Son
will have completed his long and unique experience of Paradise observation and
Havona training.

When a Creator Son departs from Paradise to embark upon the adventure of
universe making, to become the head--virtually the God--of the local uni-

                                top of page - 236

verse of his own organization, then, for the first time, he finds himself in
intimate contact with, and in many respects dependent upon, the Third Source
and Center. The Infinite Spirit, though abiding with the Father and the Son at
the center of all things, is destined to function as the actual and effective
helper of each Creator Son. Therefore is each Creator Son accompanied by a
Creative Daughter of the Infinite Spirit, that being who is destined to become
the Divine Minister, the Mother Spirit of the new local universe.

The departure of a Michael Son on this occasion forever liberates his creator
prerogatives from the Paradise Sources and Centers, subject only to certain
limitations inherent in the pre-existence of these Sources and Centers and to
certain other antecedent powers and presences. Among these limitations to the
otherwise all-powerful creator prerogatives of a local universe Father are the
following:

1. Energy-matter is dominated by the Infinite Spirit. Before any new forms of
things, great or small, may be created, before any new transformations of
energy-matter may be attempted, a Creator Son must secure the consent and
working co-operation of the Infinite Spirit.

2. Creature designs and types are controlled by the Eternal Son. Before a
Creator Son may engage in the creation of any new type of being, any new design
of creature, he must secure the consent of the Eternal and Original Mother Son.

3. Personality is designed and bestowed by the Universal Father.

The types and patterns of mind are determined by the precreature factors of
being. After these have been associated to constitute a creature (personal or
otherwise), mind is the endowment of the Third Source and Center, the universal
source of mind ministry to all beings below the level of Paradise Creators.

The control of spirit designs and types depends on the level of their
manifestation. In the last analysis, spiritual design is controlled by the
Trinity or by the pre-Trinity spirit endowments of the Trinity
personalities--Father, Son, and Spirit.

When such a perfect and divine Son has taken possession of the space site of
his chosen universe; when the initial problems of universe materialization and
of gross equilibrium have been resolved; when he has formed an effective and
co-operative working union with the complemental Daughter of the Infinite
Spirit--then do this Universe Son and this Universe Spirit initiate that
liaison which is designed to give origin to the innumerable hosts of their
local universe children. In connection with this event the Creative Spirit
focalization of the Paradise Infinite Spirit becomes changed in nature, taking
on the personal qualities of the Mother Spirit of a local universe.

Notwithstanding that all Creator Sons are divinely like their Paradise parents,
none exactly resembles another; each is unique, diverse, exclusive, and
original in nature as well as in personality. And since they are the architects
and makers of the life plans of their respective realms, this very diversity
insures that their domains will also be diverse in every form and phase of
Michael-derived living existence which may be created or subsequently evolved
therein. Hence the orders of creatures native to the local universes are quite
varied. No two are administered or inhabited by dual-origin native beings who
are in all respects identical. Within any superuniverse, one half of their
inherent attributes are quite alike, being derived from the uniform Creative
Spirits; the other half

                                top of page - 237

vary, being derived from the diversified Creator Sons. But such diversity does
not characterize those creatures of sole origin in the Creative Spirit nor
those imported beings who are native to the central or superuniverses.

When a Michael Son is absent from his universe, its government is directed by
the first-born native being, the Bright and Morning Star, the local universe
chief executive. The advice and counsel of the Union of Days is invaluable at
such times. During these absences a Creator Son is able to invest the
associated Mother Spirit with the overcontrol of his spiritual presence on the
inhabited worlds and in the hearts of his mortal children. And the Mother
Spirit of a local universe remains always at its headquarters, extending her
fostering care and spiritual ministry to the uttermost parts of such an
evolutionary domain.

The personal presence of a Creator Son in his local universe is not necessary
to the smooth running of an established material creation. Such Sons may
journey to Paradise, and still their universes swing on through space. They may
lay down their lines of power to incarnate as the children of time; still their
realms whirl on about their respective centers. No material organization is
independent of the absolute-gravity grasp of Paradise or of the cosmic
overcontrol inherent in the space presence of the Unqualified Absolute.

3. LOCAL UNIVERSE SOVEREIGNTY

A Creator Son is given the range of a universe by the consent of the Paradise
Trinity and with the confirmation of the supervising Master Spirit of the
superuniverse concerned. Such action constitutes title of physical possession,
a cosmic leasehold. But the elevation of a Michael Son from this initial and
self-limited stage of rulership to the experiential supremacy of self-earned
sovereignty comes as a result of his own personal experiences in the work of
universe creation and incarnated bestowal. Until the achievement of
bestowal-earned sovereignty, he rules as vicegerent of the Universal Father.

A Creator Son could assert full sovereignty over his personal creation at any
time, but he wisely chooses not to. If, prior to passing through the creature
bestowals, he assumed an unearned supreme sovereignty, the Paradise
personalities resident in his local universe would withdraw. But this has never
happened throughout all the creations of time and space.

The fact of creatorship implies the fullness of sovereignty, but the Michaels
choose to experientially earn it, thereby retaining the full co-operation of
all Paradise personalities attached to the local universe administration. We
know of no Michael who ever did otherwise; but they all could, they are truly
freewill Sons.

The sovereignty of a Creator Son in a local universe passes through six,
perhaps seven, stages of experiential manifestation. These appear in the
following order:

1. Initial vicegerent sovereignty--the solitary provisional authority exercised
by a Creator Son before the acquirement of personal qualities by the associated
Creative Spirit.

2. Conjoint vicegerent sovereignty--the joint rule of the Paradise pair
subsequent to the personality achievement of the Universe Mother Spirit.

                                top of page - 238

3. Augmenting vicegerent sovereignty--the advancing authority of a Creator Son
during the period of his seven creature bestowals.

4. Supreme sovereignty--the settled authority following the completion of the
seventh bestowal. In Nebadon, supreme sovereignty dates from the completion of
Michael's bestowal on Urantia. It has existed just slightly over nineteen
hundred years of your planetary time.

5. Augmenting supreme sovereignty--the advanced relationship growing out of the
settling of a majority of the creature domains in light and life. This stage
pertains to the unachieved future of your local universe.

6. Trinitarian sovereignty--exercised subsequent to the settling of the entire
local universe in light and life.

7. Unrevealed sovereignty--the unknown relationships of a future universe age.

In accepting the initial vicegerent sovereignty of a projected local universe,
a Creator Michael takes an oath to the Trinity not to assume supreme
sovereignty until the seven creature bestowals have been completed and
certified by the superuniverse rulers. But if a Michael Son could not, at will,
assert such unearned sovereignty, there would be no meaning in taking an oath
not to do so.

Even in the prebestowal ages a Creator Son rules his domain well-nigh supremely
when there is no dissent in any of its parts. Limited rulership would hardly be
manifest if sovereignty were never challenged. The sovereignty exercised by a
prebestowal Creator Son in a universe without rebellion is no greater than in a
universe with rebellion; but in the first instance sovereignty limitations are
not apparent; in the second, they are.

If ever the authority or administration of a Creator Son is challenged,
attacked, or jeopardized, he is eternally pledged to uphold, protect, defend,
and if necessary retrieve his personal creation. Such Sons can be troubled or
harassed only by the creatures of their own making or by higher beings of their
own choosing. It might be inferred that "higher beings," those of origin on
levels above a local universe, would be unlikely to trouble a Creator Son, and
this is true. But they could if they chose to. Virtue is volitional with
personality; righteousness is not automatic in freewill creatures.

Before the completion of the bestowal career a Creator Son rules with certain
self-imposed limitations of sovereignty, but subsequent to his finished
bestowal service he rules by virtue of his actual experience in the form and
likeness of his manifold creatures. When a Creator has seven times sojourned
among his creatures, when the bestowal career is finished, then is he supremely
settled in universe authority; he has become a Master Son, a sovereign and
supreme ruler.

The technique of obtaining supreme sovereignty over a local universe involves
the following seven experiential steps:

1. Experientially to penetrate seven creature levels of being through the
technique of incarnated bestowal in the very likeness of the creatures on the
level concerned.

2. To make an experiential consecration to each phase of the sevenfold will of
Paradise Deity as it is personified in the Seven Master Spirits.

                                top of page - 239

3. To traverse each of the seven experiences on the creature levels
simultaneously with the execution of one of the seven consecrations to the will
of Paradise Deity.

4. On each creature level, experientially to portray the acme of creature life
to Paradise Deity and to all universe intelligences.

5. On each creature level, experientially to reveal one phase of the sevenfold
will of Deity to the bestowal level and to all the universe.

6. Experientially to unify the sevenfold creature experience with the sevenfold
experience of consecration to the revelation of the nature and will of Deity.

7. To achieve new and higher relationship with the Supreme Being. The
repercussion of the totality of this Creator-creature experience augments the
superuniverse reality of God the Supreme and the time-space sovereignty of the
Almighty Supreme and factualizes the supreme local universe sovereignty of a
Paradise Michael.

In settling the question of sovereignty in a local universe, the Creator Son is
not only demonstrating his own fitness to rule but is also revealing the nature
and portraying the sevenfold attitude of the Paradise Deities. The finite
understanding and creature appreciation of the Father's primacy is concerned in
the adventure of a Creator Son when he condescends to take upon himself the
form and experiences of his creatures. These primary Paradise Sons are the real
revealers of the Father's loving nature and beneficent authority, the same
Father who, in association with the Son and the Spirit, is the universal head
of all power, personality, and government throughout all the universal realms.

4. THE MICHAEL BESTOWALS

There are seven groups of bestowal Creator Sons, and they are so classified in
accordance with the number of times they have bestowed themselves upon the
creatures of their realms. They range from the initial experience up through
five additional spheres of progressive bestowal until they attain the seventh
and final episode of creature-Creator experience.

Avonal bestowals are always in the likeness of mortal flesh, but the seven
bestowals of a Creator Son involve his appearing on seven creature levels of
being and pertain to the revelation of the seven primary expressions of the
will and nature of Deity. Without exception, all Creator Sons pass through this
seven times giving of themselves to their created children before they assume
settled and supreme jurisdiction over the universes of their own creation.

Though these seven bestowals vary in the different sectors and universes, they
always embrace the mortal-bestowal adventure. In the final bestowal a Creator
Son appears as a member of one of the higher mortal races on some inhabited
world, usually as a member of that racial group which contains the largest
hereditary legacy of the Adamic stock which has previously been imported to
upstep the physical status of the animal-origin peoples. Only once in his
sevenfold career as a bestowal Son is a Paradise Michael born of woman as you
have the record of the babe of Bethlehem. Only once does he live and die as a
member of the lowest order of evolutionary will creatures.

After each of his bestowals a Creator Son proceeds to the "right hand of the
Father," there to gain the Father's acceptance of the bestowal and to receive

                                top of page - 240

instruction preparatory to the next episode of universe service. Following the
seventh and final bestowal a Creator Son receives from the Universal Father
supreme authority and jurisdiction over his universe.

It is of record that the divine Son of last appearance on your planet was a
Paradise Creator Son who had completed six phases of his bestowal career;
consequently, when he gave up the conscious grasp of the incarnated life on
Urantia, he could, and did, truly say, "It is finished"--it was literally
finished. His death on Urantia completed his bestowal career; it was the last
step in fulfilling the sacred oath of a Paradise Creator Son. And when this
experience has been acquired, such Sons are supreme universe sovereigns; no
longer do they rule as vicegerents of the Father but in their own right and
name as "King of Kings and Lord of Lords." With certain stated exceptions these
sevenfold bestowal Sons are unqualifiedly supreme in the universes of their
abode. Concerning his local universe, "all power in heaven and on earth" was
relegated to this triumphant and enthroned Master Son.

Creator Sons, subsequent to the completion of their bestowal careers, are
reckoned as a separate order, sevenfold Master Sons. In person the Master Sons
are identical with the Creator Sons, but they have undergone such a unique
bestowal experience that they are commonly regarded as a different order. When
a Creator deigns to effect a bestowal, a real and permanent change is destined
to take place. True, the bestowal Son is still and none the less a Creator, but
he has added to his nature the experience of a creature, which forever removes
him from the divine level of a Creator Son and elevates him to the experiential
plane of a Master Son, one who has fully earned the right to rule a universe
and administer its worlds. Such beings embody all that can be secured from
divine parentage and embrace everything to be derived from perfected-creature
experience. Why should man bemoan his lowly origin and enforced evolutionary
career when the very Gods must pass through an equivalent experience before
they are accounted experientially worthy and competent finally and fully to
rule over their universe domains!

5. RELATION OF MASTER SONS TO THE UNIVERSE

The power of a Master Michael is unlimited because derived from experienced
association with the Paradise Trinity, is unquestioned because derived from
actual experience as the very creatures subject to such authority. The nature
of the sovereignty of a sevenfold Creator Son is supreme because it:

1. Embraces the sevenfold viewpoint of Paradise Deity.

2. Embodies a sevenfold attitude of time-space creatures.

3. Perfectly synthesizes Paradise attitude and creature viewpoint.

This experiential sovereignty is thus all-inclusive of the divinity of God the
Sevenfold culminating in the Supreme Being. And the personal sovereignty of a
sevenfold Son is like the future sovereignty of the sometime-to-be-completed
Supreme Being, embracing as it does the fullest possible content of the power
and authority of the Paradise Trinity manifestable within the time-space limits
concerned.

With the achievement of supreme local universe sovereignty, there passes from a
Michael Son the power and opportunity to create entirely new types of

                                top of page - 241

creature beings during the present universe age. But a Master Son's loss of
power to originate entirely new orders of beings in no way interferes with the
work of life elaboration already established and in process of unfoldment; this
vast program of universe evolution goes on without interruption or curtailment.
The acquirement of supreme sovereignty by a Master Son implies the
responsibility of personal devotion to the fostering and the administering of
that which has already been designed and created, and of that which will
subsequently be produced by those who have been thus designed and created. In
time there may develop an almost endless evolution of diverse beings, but no
entirely new pattern or type of intelligent creature will henceforth take
direct origin from a Master Son. This is the first step, the beginning, of a
settled administration in any local universe.

The elevation of a sevenfold bestowal Son to the unquestioned sovereignty of
his universe means the beginning of the end of agelong uncertainty and relative
confusion. Subsequent to this event, that which cannot be sometime
spiritualized will eventually be disorganized; that which cannot be sometime
co-ordinated with cosmic reality will eventually be destroyed. When the
provisions of endless mercy and nameless patience have been exhausted in an
effort to win the loyalty and devotion of the will creatures of the realms,
justice and righteousness will prevail. That which mercy cannot rehabilitate
justice will eventually annihilate.

The Master Michaels are supreme in their own local universes when once they
have been installed as sovereign rulers. The few limitations upon their rule
are those inherent in the cosmic pre-existence of certain forces and
personalities. Otherwise these Master Sons are supreme in authority,
responsibility, and administrative power in their respective universes; they
are as Creators and Gods, supreme in virtually all things. There is no
penetration beyond their wisdom regarding the functioning of a given universe.

After his elevation to settled sovereignty in a local universe a Paradise
Michael is in full control of all other Sons of God functioning in his domain,
and he may freely rule in accordance with his concept of the needs of his
realms. A Master Son may at will vary the order of the spiritual adjudication
and evolutionary adjustment of the inhabited planets. And such Sons do make and
carry out the plans of their own choosing in all matters of special planetary
needs, in particular regarding the worlds of their creature sojourn and still
more concerning the realm of terminal bestowal, the planet of incarnation in
the likeness of mortal flesh.

The Master Sons seem to be in perfect communication with their bestowal worlds,
not only the worlds of their personal sojourn but all worlds whereon a
Magisterial Son has bestowed himself. This contact is maintained by their own
spiritual presence, the Spirit of Truth, which they are able to "pour out upon
all flesh." These Master Sons also maintain an unbroken connection with the
Eternal Mother Son at the center of all things. They possess a sympathetic
reach which extends from the Universal Father on high to the lowly races of
planetary life in the realms of time.

6. DESTINY OF THE MASTER MICHAELS

No one may with finality of authority presume to discuss either the natures or
the destinies of the sevenfold Master Sovereigns of the local universes; never-

                                top of page - 242

theless, we all speculate much regarding these matters. We are taught, and we
believe, that each Paradise Michael is the absolute of the dual deity concepts
of his origin; thus he embodies actual phases of the infinity of the Universal
Father and the Eternal Son. The Michaels must be partial in relation to total
infinity, but they are probably absolute in relation to that part of infinity
concerned in their origin. But as we observe their work in the present universe
age, we detect no action that is more than finite; any conjectured superfinite
capacities must be self-contained and as yet unrevealed.

The completion of the creature-bestowal careers and the elevation to supreme
universe sovereignty must signify the completed liberation of a Michael's
finite-action capacities accompanied by the appearance of capacity for
more-than-finite service. For in this connection we note that such Master Sons
are then restricted in the production of new types of creature beings, a
restriction undoubtedly made necessary by the liberation of their superfinite
potentialities.

It is highly probable that these undisclosed creator powers will remain
self-contained throughout the present universe age. But sometime in the
far-distant future, in the now mobilizing universes of outer space, we believe
that the liaison between a sevenfold Master Son and a seventh-stage Creative
Spirit may attain to absonite levels of service attended by the appearance of
new things, meanings, and values on transcendental levels of ultimate universe
significance.

Just as the Deity of the Supreme is actualizing by virtue of experiential
service, so are the Creator Sons achieving the personal realization of the
Paradise-divinity potentials bound up in their unfathomable natures. When on
Urantia, Christ Michael once said, "I am the way, the truth, and the life." And
we believe that in eternity the Michaels are literally destined to be "the way,
the truth, and the life," ever blazing the path for all universe personalities
as it leads from supreme divinity through ultimate absonity to eternal deity
finality.

[Presented by a Perfector of Wisdom from Uversa.]

                                top of page - 243

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   The Paradise   ³  The Trinitized   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      So...       ³        ...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
