              Urantia Book Paper 22 The Trinitized Sons Of God
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Paper 22 The Trinitized Sons Of God

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THERE are three groups of beings who are called Sons of God. In addition to
descending and ascending orders of sonship there is a third group known as the
Trinitized Sons of God. The trinitized order of sonship is subdivided into
three primary divisions in accordance with the origins of its many types of
personalities, revealed and unrevealed. These primary divisions are:

1. Deity-trinitized Sons.

2. Trinity-embraced Sons.

3. Creature-trinitized Sons.

Irrespective of origin all Trinitized Sons of God have in common the experience
of trinitization, either as a part of their origin or as an experience of
Trinity embrace subsequently attained. The Deity-trinitized Sons are unrevealed
in these narratives; therefore will this presentation be confined to a
portrayal of the remaining two groups, more particularly the Trinity-embraced
sons of God.

1. THE TRINITY-EMBRACED SONS

All Trinity-embraced sons are originally of dual or single origin, but
subsequent to the Trinity embrace they are forever devoted to Trinity service
and assignment. This corps, as revealed and as organized for superuniverse
service, embraces seven orders of personalities:

1. Mighty Messengers.

2. Those High in Authority.

3. Those without Name and Number.

4. Trinitized Custodians.

5. Trinitized Ambassadors.

6. Celestial Guardians.

7. High Son Assistants.

These seven groups of personalities are further classified, according to
origin, nature, and function, into three major divisions: the Trinitized Sons
of Attainment, the Trinitized Sons of Selection, and the Trinitized Sons of
Perfection.

                                top of page - 244

The Trinitized Sons of Attainment--the Mighty Messengers, Those High in
Authority, and Those without Name and Number--are all Adjuster-fused ascendant
mortals who have attained Paradise and the Corps of the Finality. But they are
not finaliters; when they have been Trinity embraced, their names are removed
from the finaliter roll call. The new sons of this order pass through specific
courses of training, for comparatively short periods, on the circuit
headquarters planets of the Havona circuits under the direction of the Eternals
of Days. Thereafter they are assigned to the services of the Ancients of Days
in the seven superuniverses.

The Trinitized Sons of Selection embrace the Trinitized Custodians and the
Trinitized Ambassadors. They are recruited from certain of the evolutionary
seraphim and translated midway creatures who have traversed Havona and have
attained Paradise, as well as from certain of the Spirit-fused and the
Son-fused mortals who have likewise ascended to the central Isle of Light and
Life. Subsequent to their embrace by the Paradise Trinity and after a brief
training in Havona, the Trinitized Sons of Selection are assigned to the courts
of the Ancients of Days.

The Trinitized Sons of Perfection. The Celestial Guardians and their
co-ordinates, the High Son Assistants, comprise a unique group of
twice-trinitized personalities. They are the creature-trinitized sons of
Paradise-Havona personalities or of perfected ascendant mortals who have long
distinguished themselves in the Corps of the Finality. Some of these
creature-trinitized sons, after service with the Supreme Executives of the
Seven Master Spirits and after serving under the Trinity Teacher Sons, are
retrinitized (embraced) by the Paradise Trinity and then commissioned to the
courts of the Ancients of Days as Celestial Guardians and as High Son
Assistants. Trinitized Sons of Perfection are assigned directly to the
superuniverse service without further training.

Our Trinity-origin associates--Perfectors of Wisdom, Divine Counselors, and
Universal Censors--are of stationary numbers, but the Trinity-embraced sons are
constantly increasing. All seven orders of Trinity-embraced sons are
commissioned as members of one of the seven superuniverse governments, and the
number in the service of each superuniverse is exactly the same; not one has
ever been lost. Trinity-embraced beings have never gone astray; they may
stumble temporarily, but not one has ever been adjudged in contempt of the
superuniverse governments. The Sons of Attainment and the Sons of Selection
have never faltered in the service of Orvonton, but the Trinitized Sons of
Perfection have sometimes erred in judgment and thereby caused transient
confusion.

Under the direction of the Ancients of Days all seven orders function very much
as self-governing groups. Their scope of service is far-flung; Trinitized Sons
of Perfection do not leave the superuniverse of assignment, but their
trinitized associates range the grand universe, journeying from the
evolutionary worlds of time and space to the eternal Isle of Paradise. They may
function in any of the superuniverses, but they do so always as members of the
supergovernment of original designation.

Apparently the Trinity-embraced sons have been permanently assigned to the
service of the seven superuniverses; certainly this assignment is for the
duration of the present universe age, but we have never been informed that it
is to be eternal.

                                top of page - 245

2. THE MIGHTY MESSENGERS

Mighty Messengers belong to the ascendant group of the Trinitized Sons. They
are a class of perfected mortals who have been rebellion tested or otherwise
equally proved as to their personal loyalty; all have passed through some
definite test of universe allegiance. At some time in their Paradise ascent
they stood firm and loyal in the face of the disloyalty of their superiors, and
some did actively and loyally function in the places of such unfaithful
leaders.

With such personal records of fidelity and devotion, these ascending mortals
pass on through Havona with the stream of the pilgrims of time, attain
Paradise, graduate therefrom, and are mustered into the Corps of the Finality.
Thereupon they are trinitized in the secret embrace of the Paradise Trinity and
subsequently are commissioned to become associated with the Ancients of Days in
the administration of the governments of the seven superuniverses.

Every ascendant mortal of insurrectionary experience who functions loyally in
the face of rebellion is eventually destined to become a Mighty Messenger of
the superuniverse service. Likewise is any ascendant creature who effectively
prevents such upheavals of error, evil, or sin; for action designed to prevent
rebellion or to effect higher types of loyalty in a universe crisis is regarded
as of even greater value than loyalty in the face of actual rebellion.

The senior Mighty Messengers were chosen from those ascendant mortals of time
and space who were among the earlier Paradise arrivals, many having traversed
Havona in the times of Grandfanda. But the first trinitizing of Mighty
Messengers was not effected until the candidate corps contained representatives
from each of the seven superuniverses. And the last group of this order to
qualify on Paradise embraced ascendant pilgrims from the local universe of
Nebadon.

Mighty Messengers are embraced by the Paradise Trinity in classes of seven
hundred thousand, one hundred thousand for assignment to each superuniverse.
Almost one trillion Mighty Messengers are commissioned on Uversa, and there is
every reason to believe that the number serving in each of the seven
superuniverses is exactly the same.

I am a Mighty Messenger, and it may interest Urantians to know that the
companion and associate of my mortal experience was also triumphant in the
great test, and that, though we were many times and for long periods separated
in the agelong inward ascent to Havona, we were embraced in the same
seven-hundred-thousand group, and that we spent our time passing through
Vicegerington in close and loving association. We were finally commissioned and
together assigned to Uversa of Orvonton, and we are often dispatched in company
for the execution of assignments requiring the services of two Messengers.

Mighty Messengers, in common with all Trinity-embraced sons, are assigned to
all phases of superuniverse activities. They maintain constant connection with
their headquarters through the superuniverse reflectivity service. Mighty
Messengers serve in all sectors of a superuniverse and frequently execute
missions to the local universes and even to the individual worlds, as I do on
this occasion.

In the superuniverse courts, Mighty Messengers act as defenders of both
individuals and planets when they come up for adjudication; they also assist
the Perfections of Days in the direction of the affairs of the major sectors.
As a

                                top of page - 246

group, their chief assignment is that of superuniverse observers. They are
stationed on the various headquarters worlds and on individual planets of
importance as the official observers of the Ancients of Days. When so assigned,
they also serve as advisers to the authorities directing the affairs of the
spheres of their sojourn. The Messengers take active part in all phases of the
ascendant scheme of mortal progression. With their associates of mortal origin
they keep the supergovernments in close and personal touch with the status and
progression of the plans of the descending Sons of God.

Mighty Messengers are fully conscious of their entire ascendant careers, and
that is why they are such useful and sympathetic ministers, understanding
messengers, for service on any world of space and to any creature of time. As
soon as you are delivered from the flesh, you will communicate freely and
understandingly with us since we spring from all the races on all the
evolutionary worlds of space, that is, from those mortal races that are indwelt
by, and subsequently fused with, Thought Adjusters.

3. THOSE HIGH IN AUTHORITY

Those High in Authority, the second group of the Trinitized Sons of Attainment,
are all Adjuster-fused beings of mortal origin. These are the perfected mortals
who have exhibited superior administrative ability and have shown extraordinary
executive genius throughout their long ascending careers. They are the cream of
governing ability derived from the surviving mortals of space.

Seventy thousand of Those High in Authority are trinitized at each Trinity
liaison. Though the local universe of Nebadon is a comparatively young
creation, it has representatives among a recently trinitized class of this
order. There are now commissioned in Orvonton more than ten billion of these
skillful administrators. Like all separate orders of celestial beings, they
maintain their own headquarters on Uversa, and like the other Trinity-embraced
sons, their reserves on Uversa act as the central directing body of their order
in Orvonton.

Those High in Authority are administrators without limitation. They are the
everywhere-present and always-efficient executives of the Ancients of Days.
They serve on any sphere, on any inhabited world, and in any phase of activity
in any of the seven superuniverses.

Having superb administrative wisdom and unusual executive skill, these
brilliant beings assume to present the cause of justice in behalf of the
superuniverse tribunals; they foster the execution of justice and the
rectification of misadaptations in the evolutionary universes. Therefore, if
you should ever be cited for errors of judgment while you are ascending the
worlds and spheres of your ordained cosmic progression, it is hardly likely
that you would suffer injustice since your prosecutors would be onetime
ascendant creatures who are personally familiar with every step of the career
you have traversed and are traversing.

4. THOSE WITHOUT NAME AND NUMBER

Those without Name and Number constitute the third and last group of the
Trinitized Sons of Attainment; they are the ascendant souls who have developed
the ability to worship beyond the skill of all the sons and daughters of the
evolutionary races from the worlds of time and space. They have acquired a
spiritual

                                top of page - 247

concept of the eternal purpose of the Universal Father which comparatively
transcends the comprehension of the evolutionary creatures of name or number;
therefore are they denominated Those without Name and Number. More strictly
translated, their name would be "Those above Name and Number."

This order of sons is embraced by the Paradise Trinity in groups of seven
thousand. There are of record on Uversa over one hundred million of these sons
commissioned in Orvonton.

Since Those without Name and Number are the superior spiritual minds of the
survival races, they are especially qualified to sit in judgment and to render
opinions when a spiritual viewpoint is desirable, and when experience in the
ascendant career is essential to an adequate comprehension of the questions
involved in the problem to be adjudicated. They are the supreme jurors of
Orvonton. A maladministered jury system may be more or less of a travesty of
justice on some worlds, but on Uversa and its extension tribunals we employ the
highest type of evolved spiritual mentality as juror-judges. Adjudication is
the highest function of any government, and those who are intrusted with
verdict rendering should be chosen from the highest and most noble types of the
most experienced and understanding individuals.

The selection of candidates for the trinitization classes of Mighty Messengers,
Those High in Authority, and Those without Name and Number is inherent and
automatic. The selective techniques of Paradise are not in any sense arbitrary.
Personal experience and spiritual values determine the personnel of the
Trinitized Sons of Attainment. Such beings are equal in authority and uniform
in administrative status, but they all possess individuality and diverse
characters; they are not standardized beings. All are characteristically
different, depending on the differentials of their ascendant careers.

In addition to these experiential qualifications, the Trinitized Sons of
Attainment have been trinitized in the divine embrace of the Paradise Deities.
Consequently they function as the co-ordinate associates of the Stationary Sons
of the Trinity, for the Trinity embrace does seem to precipitate out of the
stream of future time many of the unrealized potentials of creature beings. But
this is true concerning only that which pertains to the present universe age.

This group of sons is chiefly, but not wholly, concerned with the services of
the ascendant career of the time-space mortals. If the viewpoint of a mortal
creature is ever in doubt, the question is settled by appeal to an ascendant
commission consisting of a Mighty Messenger, One High in Authority, and One
without Name and Number.

You mortals who read this message may yourselves ascend to Paradise, attain the
Trinity embrace, and in remote future ages be attached to the service of the
Ancients of Days in one of the seven superuniverses, and sometime be assigned
to enlarge the revelation of truth to some evolving inhabited planet, even as I
am now functioning on Urantia.

5. THE TRINITIZED CUSTODIANS

The Trinitized Custodians are Trinitized Sons of Selection. Not only do you
races and other mortals of survival value traverse Havona, attain Paradise, and
sometimes find themselves destined to superuniverse service with the Stationary
Sons of the Trinity, but your faithful seraphic guardians and your equally
faith-

                                top of page - 248

ful midway associates may also become candidates for the same Trinity
recognition and superb personality destiny.

Trinitized Custodians are ascendant seraphim and translated midway creatures
who have passed through Havona and have attained Paradise and the Corps of the
Finality. Subsequently they were embraced by the Paradise Trinity and were
assigned to the service of the Ancients of Days.

The candidates for the Trinity embrace from among the ascendant seraphim are
accorded this recognition because of their valiant co-operation with some
ascendant mortal who attained the Corps of the Finality and was subsequently
trinitized. My own seraphic guardian of the mortal career went through with me,
was later trinitized, and now is attached to the Uversa government as a
Trinitized Custodian.

And so with the midway creatures; many are translated and achieve Paradise and,
along with the seraphim and for the same reasons, are Trinity embraced and
commissioned as Custodians in the superuniverses.

The Trinitized Custodians are embraced by the Paradise Trinity in groups of
seventy thousand, and one seventh of each group is assigned to a superuniverse.
There are now in the service of Orvonton slightly over ten million of these
trusted and high Custodians. They serve on Uversa and on the major and minor
headquarters spheres. In their labors they are assisted by a corps of several
billion seconaphim and other able superuniverse personalities.

The Trinitized Custodians start out their careers as custodians, and they
continue as such in the affairs of the supergovernments. In a way, they are
officers of their superuniverse governments, but they do not deal with
individuals, as do the Celestial Guardians. The Trinitized Custodians
administer group affairs and foster collective projects. They are the
custodians of records, plans, and institutions; they act as the trustees of
undertakings, personality groups, ascendant projects, morontia plans, universe
projections, and innumerable other enterprises.

6. THE TRINITIZED AMBASSADORS

Trinitized Ambassadors are the second order of the Trinitized Sons of Selection
and like their associates, the Custodians, are recruited from two types of
ascendant creatures. Not all ascending mortals are Adjuster or Father fused;
some are Spirit fused, some are Son fused. Certain of these Spirit- and
Son-fused mortals reach Havona and attain Paradise. From among these Paradise
ascenders, candidates are selected for the Trinity embrace, and from time to
time they are trinitized in classes of seven thousand. They are then
commissioned in the superuniverses as Trinitized Ambassadors of the Ancients of
Days. Almost one-half billion are registered on Uversa.

Trinitized Ambassadors are selected for the Trinity embrace upon the advices of
their Havona teachers. They represent the superior minds of their respective
groups and are, therefore, best qualified to assist the superuniverse rulers in
understanding and in administering the interests of those worlds from which the
Spirit-fused mortals hail. The Son-fused Ambassadors are of great assistance in
our dealings with problems involving the Son-fused order of personality.

Trinitized Ambassadors are the emissaries of the Ancients of Days for any and
all purposes, to any and all worlds or universes within the superuniverse of
their assignment. The render particular and important services on the head-

                                top of page - 249

quarters of the minor sectors, and they perform the numberless miscellaneous
assignments of a superuniverse. They are the emergency or reserve corps of the
Trinitized Sons of the supergovernments, and they are therefore available for a
great range of duties. They engage in thousands upon thousands of undertakings
in superuniverse affairs which it is impossible to portray to human minds since
there is nothing transpiring on Urantia that is in any way analogous to these
activities.

7. TECHNIQUE OF TRINITIZATION

I cannot fully unfold to the material mind the experience of the supreme
creative performance of perfect and perfected spiritual beings--the act of
trinitization. The techniques of trinitization are among the secrets of
Vicegerington and Solitarington and are revealable to, and understandable by,
none save those who have passed through these unique experiences. Therefore is
it beyond the possibility of any being successfully to portray to the human
mind the nature and purport of this extraordinary transaction.

Aside from the Deities, only Paradise-Havona personalities and certain members
of each of the finaliter corps engage in trinitization. Under specialized
conditions of Paradise perfection, these superb beings may embark upon the
unique adventure of concept-identity, and they are many times successful in the
production of a new being, a creature-trinitized son.

The glorified creatures who engage in such adventures of trinitization may
participate in only one such experience, whereas with the Paradise Deities
there seems to be no limit to the continued enactment of trinitization
episodes. Deity seems to be limited in just one respect: There can be only one
Original and Infinite Spirit, only one infinite executive of the united will of
the Father-Son.

The ascendant Adjuster-fused mortal finaliters who have attained certain levels
of Paradise culture and spiritual development are among those who can essay to
trinitize a creature being. Mortal-finaliter companies, when stationed on
Paradise, are granted a recess every millennium of Havona time. There are seven
different ways such finaliters may elect to spend this duty-free period, and
one of these is, in association with some fellow finaliter or some
Paradise-Havona personality, to attempt the enactment of creature
trinitization.

If two mortal finaliters, on going before the Architects of the Master
Universe, demonstrate that they have independently chosen an identical concept
for trinitization, the Architects are empowered, on their own discretion, to
promulgate mandates permitting these glorified mortal ascenders to extend their
recess and to remove themselves for a time to the trinitizing sector of the
Paradise Citizens. At the end of this assigned retreat, if they report that
they have singly and jointly elected to make the paradisiacal effort to
spiritualize, idealize, and actualize a selected and original concept which has
not theretofore been trinitized, then does Master Spirit Number Seven issue
orders authorizing such an extraordinary undertaking.

Unbelievably long periods of time are sometimes consumed in these adventures;
an age seems to pass before these faithful and determined onetime mortals--and
sometimes Paradise-Havona personalities--finally achieve their goal, really
succeed in bringing their chosen concept of universal truth into actual being.
And not always do these devoted couples meet with success; many times they
fail, and that through no discoverable error on their part. Candidates

                                top of page - 250

for trinitization who thus fail are admitted to a special group of finaliters
who are designated as beings who have made the supreme effort and sustained the
supreme disappointment. When the Paradise Deities unite to trinitize, they
always succeed, but not so with a homogeneous pair of creatures, the attempted
union of two members of the same order of being.

When a new and original being is trinitized by the Gods, the divine parents are
in deity potential unchanged; but when exalted creature beings enact such a
creative episode, one of the contracting and participating individuals
undergoes a unique personality modification. The two ancestors of a
creature-trinitized son become in a certain sense spiritually as one. We
believe that this status of bi-unification of certain spiritual phases of
personality will probably prevail until such time as the Supreme Being shall
have attained full and completed manifestation of personality in the grand
universe.

Simultaneously with the appearance of a new creature-trinitized son, there
occurs this functional spiritual union of the two ancestors; the two
trinitizing parents become one on the ultimate functional level. No created
being in the universe can fully explain this amazing phenomenon; it is a
near-divine experience. When the Father and the Son united to eternalize the
Infinite Spirit, upon the accomplishment of their purpose they immediately
became as one and ever since have been one. And while the trinitization union
of two creatures is on the order of the infinite scope of the perfect Deity
union of the Universal Father and the Eternal Son, the repercussions of
creature trinitization are not eternal in nature; they will terminate upon the
completed factualization of the experiential Deities.

While these parents of creature-trinitized sons become as one in their universe
assignments, they continue to be reckoned as two personalities in the makeup
and roll calls of the Corps of the finality and of the Architects of the Master
Universe. During the current universe age, all trinitization-united parents are
inseparable in assignment and function; where one goes the other goes, what one
does the other does. If parental bi-unification involves a mortal (or other)
finaliter and a Paradise-Havona personality, the united parental beings
function neither with the Paradisers, Havoners, nor finaliters. Such mixed
unions forgather in a special corps made up of similar beings. And in all
trinitization unions, mixed or otherwise, the parental beings are conscious of,
and can communicate with, each other, and they can perform duties that neither
could have previously discharged.

The Seven Master Spirits have authority to sanction the trinitizing union of
finaliters and Paradise-Havona personalities, and such mixed liaisons are
always successful. The resultant magnificent creature-trinitized sons are
representative of concepts unsuited to the comprehension of either the eternal
creatures of Paradise or the time creatures of space; hence they become the
wards of the Architects of the Master Universe. These trinitized sons of
destiny embody ideas, ideals, and experience which apparently pertain to a
future universe age and are therefore of no immediate practical value to either
the super- or central universe administrations. These unique sons of the
children of time and the citizens of eternity are all held in reserve on
Vicegerington, where they are engaged in the study of the concepts of time and
the realities of eternity in a special sector of the sphere occupied by the
secret colleges of the corps of the Creator Sons.

                                top of page - 251

The Supreme Being is the unification of three phases of Deity reality: God the
Supreme, the spiritual unification of certain finite aspects of the Paradise
Trinity; the Almighty Supreme, the power unification of the grand universe
Creators; and the Supreme Mind, the individual contribution of the Third Source
and Center and his co-ordinates to the reality of the Supreme Being. In their
trinitization adventures the superb creatures of the central universe and
Paradise are engaged in a threefold exploration of the Deity of the Supreme
which results in the production of three orders of creature-trinitized sons:

1. Ascender-trinitized Sons. In their creative efforts the finaliters are
attempting to trinitize certain conceptual realities of the Almighty Supreme
which they have experientially acquired in their ascension through time and
space to Paradise.

2. Paradise-Havona-trinitized Sons. The creative efforts of the Paradise
Citizens and the Havoners result in the trinitization of certain high spiritual
aspects of the Supreme Being which they have experientially acquired on a
supersupreme background bordering on the Ultimate and the Eternal.

3. Trinitized Sons of Destiny. But when a finaliter and a Paradise-Havoner
together trinitize a new creature, this conjoint effort repercusses in certain
phases of the Supreme-Ultimate Mind. The resulting creature-trinitized sons are
supercreational; they represent actualities of Supreme-Ultimate Deity which
have not been otherwise experientially attained, and which, therefore,
automatically fall within the province of the Architects of the Master
Universe, custodians of those things which transcend the creational limits of
the present universe age. The trinitized sons of destiny embody certain aspects
of the unrevealed master universe function of the Supreme-Ultimate. We do not
know a great deal about these conjoint children of time and eternity, but we
know much more than we are permitted to reveal.

8. THE CREATURE-TRINITIZED SONS

In addition to the creature-trinitized sons considered in this narrative, there
are numerous unrevealed orders of creature-trinitized beings--the diverse
progeny of the multiple liaisons of seven finaliter corps and Paradise-Havona
personalities. But all these creature-trinitized beings, revealed and
unrevealed, are endowed with personality by the Universal Father.

When new ascender-trinitized and Paradise-Havona-trinitized sons are young and
untrained, they are usually dispatched for long periods of service on the seven
Paradise spheres of the Infinite Spirit, where they serve under the tutelage of
the Seven Supreme Executives. Subsequently they may be adopted for further
training in the local universes by the Trinity Teacher Sons.

These adopted sons of high and glorified creature origin are the apprentices,
student helpers, of the Teacher Sons, and as regards classification they are
often temporarily numbered with these Sons. They may and do execute many noble
assignments in self-denial in behalf of their chosen realms of service.

The Teacher Sons in the local universes may nominate their creature-trinitized
wards for embrace by the Paradise Trinity. Emerging from this embrace as
Trinitized Sons of Perfection, they enter the service of the Ancients of Days
in the seven superuniverses, that being the present known destiny of this
unique group of twice-trinitized beings.

                                top of page - 252

Not all creature-trinitized sons are Trinity embraced; many become the
associates and ambassadors of the Seven Master Spirits of Paradise, of the
Reflective Spirits of the superuniverses, and of the Mother Spirits of the
local creations. Others may accept special assignments on the eternal Isle.
Still others may enter the special services on the secret worlds of the Father
and on the Paradise spheres of the Spirit. Eventually many find their way into
the conjoint corps of the Trinitized Sons on the inner circuit of Havona.

Excepting the Trinitized Sons of Perfection and those who are forgathering on
Vicegerington, the supreme destiny of all creature-trinitized sons appears to
be entrance into the Corps of Trinitized Finaliters, one of the seven Paradise
Corps of the Finality.

9. THE CELESTIAL GUARDIANS

Creature-trinitized sons are embraced by the Paradise Trinity in classes of
seven thousand. These trinitized offspring of perfected humans and of
Paradise-Havona personalities are all equally embraced by the Deities, but they
are assigned to the superuniverses in accordance with the advice of their
former instructors, the Trinity Teacher Sons. Those of more acceptable service
are commissioned High Son Assistants; those of less distinguished performance
are designated Celestial Guardians.

When these unique beings have been Trinity embraced, they become valuable
adjuncts to the superuniverse governments. They are versed in the affairs of
the ascendant career, not by personal ascension, but as a result of their
service with the Trinity Teacher Sons on the worlds of space.

Almost one billion Celestial Guardians have been commissioned in Orvonton. They
are chiefly assigned to the administrations of the Perfections of Days on the
headquarters of the major sectors and are ably assisted by a corps of ascendant
Son-fused mortals.

The Celestial Guardians are the officers of the courts of the Ancients of Days,
functioning as court messengers and as bearers of the summonses and decisions
of the various tribunals of the superuniverse governments. They are the
apprehending agents of the Ancients of Days; they go forth from Uversa to bring
back beings whose presence is required before the superuniverse judges; they
execute the mandates for the detention of any personality in the superuniverse.
They also accompany Spirit-fused mortals of the local universes when, for any
reason, their presence is required on Uversa.

The Celestial Guardians and their associates, the High Son Assistants, have
never been indwelt by Adjusters. Neither are they Spirit nor Son fused. The
embrace of the Paradise Trinity does, however, compensate for the nonfused
status of the Trinitized Sons of Perfection. The Trinity embrace may act solely
upon the idea which is personified in a creature-trinitized son, leaving the
embraced son otherwise unchanged, but such a limitation occurs only when so
planned.

These twice-trinitized sons are marvelous beings, but they are neither as
versatile nor dependable as their ascendant associates; they lack that
tremendous and profound personal experience which the rest of the sons
belonging to this group have acquired by actually climbing up to glory from the
dark do-

                                top of page - 253

mains of space. We of the ascendant career love them and do all in our power to
compensate their deficiencies, but they make us ever grateful for our lowly
origin and our capacity for experience. Their willingness to recognize and
acknowledge their deficiencies in the experiencible realities of universe
ascension is transcendently beautiful and sometimes most touchingly pathetic.

Trinitized Sons of Perfection are limited in contrast to other Trinity-embraced
sons because their experiential capacity is time-space inhibited. They are
experience-deficient, despite long training with the Supreme Executives and the
Teacher Sons, and if this were not the case, experiential saturation would
preclude their being left in reserve for acquiring experience in a future
universe age. There is simply nothing in all universal existence which can take
the place of actual personal experience, and these creature-trinitized sons are
held in reserve for experiential function in some future universe epoch.

On the mansion worlds I have often seen these dignified officers of the high
courts of the superuniverse look so longingly and appealingly at even the
recent arrivals from the evolutionary worlds of space that one could not help
realizing that these possessors of nonexperiential trinitization really envied
their supposedly less fortunate brethren who ascend the universal path by steps
of bona fide experience and actual living. Notwithstanding their handicaps and
limitations they are a wonderfully useful and ever-willing corps of workers
when it comes to the execution of the complex administrative plans of the
superuniverse governments.

10. HIGH SON ASSISTANTS

The High Son Assistants are the superior group of the retrinitized trinitized
sons of glorified ascendant beings of the Mortal Corps of the Finality and of
their eternal associates, the Paradise-Havona personalities. They are assigned
to the superuniverse service and function as personal aids to the high sons of
the governments of the Ancients of Days. They might fittingly be denominated
private secretaries. They act, from time to time, as clerks for special
commissions and other group associations of the high sons. They serve
Perfectors of Wisdom, Divine Counselors, Universal Censors, Mighty Messengers,
Those High in Authority, and Those without Name and Number.

If, in discussing the Celestial Guardians, I have seemed to call attention to
the limitations and handicaps of these twice-trinitized sons, let me now, in
all fairness, call attention to their one point of great strength, the
attribute which makes them almost invaluable to us. These beings owe their very
existence to the fact that they are the personification of a single and supreme
concept. They are the personality embodiment of some divine idea, some
universal ideal, as it has never before been conceived, expressed, or
trinitized. And they have subsequently been Trinity embraced; thus they show
forth and actually embody the very wisdom of the divine Trinity as concerns the
idea-ideal of their personality existence. As far as that particular concept is
revealable to the universes, these personalities embody all of everything that
any creature or Creator intelligence could possibly conceive, express, or
exemplify. They are that idea personified.

Can you not see that such living concentrations of a single supreme concept of
universe reality would be of untold service to those who are intrusted with the
administration of the superuniverses?

                                top of page - 254

Not long since I was directed to head a commission of six--one of each of the
high sons--assigned to the study of three problems pertaining to a group of new
universes in the south parts of Orvonton. I was made acutely aware of the value
of the High Son Assistants when I made requisition on the chief of their order
on Uversa for temporary assignment of such secretaries to my commission. The
first of our ideas was represented by a High Son Assistant on Uversa, who was
forthwith attached to our group. Our second problem was embodied in a High Son
Assistant assigned to superuniverse number three. We secured much help from
this source through the central universe clearinghouse for the co-ordination
and dissemination of essential knowledge, but nothing comparable to the
assistance afforded by the actual presence of a personality who is a concept
creature-trinitized in supremacy and Deity-trinitized in finality. Concerning
our third problem, the records of Paradise disclosed that such an idea had
never been creature trinitized.

High Son Assistants are unique and original personalizations of tremendous
concepts and stupendous ideals. And as such they are able to impart
inexpressible illumination to our deliberations from time to time. When I am
acting on some remote assignment out in the universes of space, think what it
means, by way of assistance, if I am so fortunate as to have attached to my
mission a High Son Assistant who is the fullness of divine concept regarding
the very problem I have been sent to attack and solve; and I have repeatedly
had this very experience. The only difficulty with this plan is that no
superuniverse can have a complete edition of these trinitized ideas; we only
get one seventh of these beings; so it is only about one time in seven that we
enjoy the personal association of these beings even when the records indicate
that the idea has been trinitized.

We could use to great advantage much larger numbers of these beings on Uversa.
Because of their value to the superuniverse administrations, we, in every way
possible, encourage the pilgrims of space and also the residents of Paradise to
attempt trinitization after they have contributed to one another those
experiential realities which are essential to the enactment of such creative
adventures.

We now have in our superuniverse about one and a quarter million High Son
Assistants, and they serve on both the major and minor sectors, even as they
function on Uversa. They very often accompany us on our assignments to the
remote universes. High Son Assistants are not permanently assigned to any Son
or to any commission. They are in constant circulation, serving where the idea
or ideal which they are can best further the eternal purposes of the Paradise
Trinity, whose sons they have become.

They are touchingly affectionate, superbly loyal, exquisitely intelligent,
supremely wise--regarding a single idea--and transcendently humble. While they
can impart to you the lore of the universe concerning their one idea or ideal,
it is well-nigh pathetic to observe them seeking knowledge and information on
hosts of other subjects, even from the ascending mortals.

And this is the narrative of the origin, nature, and functioning of certain of
those who are called the Trinitized Sons of God, more particularly of those who
have passed through the divine embrace of the Paradise Trinity, and who have
then been assigned to the services of the superuniverses, there to give wise
and understanding co-operation with the administrators of the Ancients of Days
in

                                top of page - 255

their untiring efforts to facilitate the inward progress of the ascending
mortals of time toward their immediate Havona destination and their eventual
Paradise goal.

[Narrated by a Mighty Messenger of the revelatory corps of Orvonton.]

                                top of page - 256

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   The Paradise   ³   The Solitary    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Cr...       ³       Me...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
