                Urantia Book Paper 23 The Solitary Messengers
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Paper 23 The Solitary Messengers

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

SOLITARY Messengers are the personal and universal corps of the Conjoint
Creator; they are the first and senior order of the Higher Personalities of the
Infinite Spirit. They represent the initial creative action of the Infinite
Spirit in solitary function for the purpose of bringing into existence solitary
personality spirits. Neither the Father nor the Son directly participated in
this stupendous spiritualization.

These spirit messengers were personalized in a single creative episode, and
their number is stationary. Although I have one of these extraordinary beings
associated with me on this present mission, I do not know how many such
personalities exist in the universe of universes. I only know, from time to
time, how many are of registry-record as functioning for the time being within
the jurisdiction of our superuniverse. From the last Uversa report I observe
that there were almost 7,690 trillion Solitary Messengers then operating within
the boundaries of Orvonton; and I conjecture that this is considerably less
than one seventh of their total number.

1. NATURE AND ORIGIN OF SOLITARY MESSENGERS

Immediately following the creation of the Seven Spirits of the Havona Circuits
the Infinite Spirit brought into being the vast corps of Solitary Messengers.
There is no part of the universal creation which is pre-existent to the
Solitary Messengers except Paradise and the Havona circuits; they have
functioned throughout the grand universe from near eternity. They are
fundamental to the divine technique of the Infinite Spirit for self-revelation
to, and personal contact with, the far-flung creations of time and space.

Notwithstanding that these messengers are existent from the near times of
eternity, they are all aware of a beginning of selfhood. They are conscious of
time, being the first of the creation of the Infinite Spirit to possess such a
time consciousness. They are the first-born creatures of the Infinite Spirit to
be personalized in time and spiritualized in space.

These solitary spirits came forth in the dawn of time as full-fledged and
perfectly endowed spirit beings. They are all equal, and there are no classes
or subdivisions founded on personal variation. Their classifications are based
wholly on the type of work to which they are assigned from time to time.

Mortals start out as well-nigh material beings on the worlds of space and
ascend inward towards the Great Centers; these solitary spirits start out at
the center of all things and crave assignment to the remote creations, even to
the individual worlds of the outermost local universes and even on beyond.

Though denominated Solitary Messengers, they are not lonesome spirits, for they
truly like to work alone. They are the only beings in all creation who can

                                top of page - 257

and do enjoy a solitary existence, albeit they equally enjoy association with
the very few orders of universe intelligence with whom they can fraternize.

Solitary Messengers are not isolated in their service; they are constantly in
touch with the wealth of the intellect of all creation as they are capable of
"listening in" on all the broadcasts of the realms of their sojourn. They can
also intercommunicate with members of their own immediate corps, those beings
doing the same kind of work in the same superuniverse. They could communicate
with others of their number, but they have been directed by the council of the
Seven Master Spirits not to do so, and they are a loyal group; they do not
disobey or default. There is no record that a Solitary Messenger ever stumbled
into darkness.

The Solitary Messengers, like the Universe Power Directors, are among the very
few types of beings operating throughout the realms who are exempt from
apprehension or detention by the tribunals of time and space. They could be
cited to appear before no one except the Seven Master Spirits, but not in all
the annals of the master universe has this Paradise council ever been called
upon to adjudicate the case of a Solitary Messenger.

These messengers of solitary assignment are a dependable, self-reliant,
versatile, thoroughly spiritual, and broadly sympathetic group of created
beings derived from the Third Source and Center; they operate by the authority
of the Infinite Spirit resident on the central Isle of Paradise and as
personalized on the headquarters spheres of the local universes. They are
constant partakers of the direct circuit emanating from the Infinite Spirit,
even when they function in the local creations under the immediate influence of
the local universe Mother Spirits.

There is a technical reason why these Solitary Messengers must travel and work
alone. For short periods and when stationary, they can collaborate in a group,
but when thus ensembled, they are altogether cut off from the sustenance and
direction of their Paradise circuit; they are wholly isolated. When in transit,
or when operating in the circuits of space and the currents of time, if two or
more of this order are in close proximity, both or all are thrown out of
liaison with the higher circulating forces. They are "short circuited" as you
might describe it in illustrative symbols. Therefore they have inherent within
them a power of automatic alarm, a warning signal, which unerringly operates to
apprise them of approaching conflicts and unfailingly keeps them sufficiently
separated as not to interfere with their proper and effective functioning. They
also possess inherent and automatic powers which detect and indicate the
proximity of both the Inspired Trinity Spirits and the divine Thought
Adjusters.

These messengers possess no power of personality extension or reproduction, but
there is practically no work of the universes in which they cannot engage, and
to which they cannot contribute something essential and helpful. Especially are
they the great timesavers for those who are concerned in the administration of
universe affairs; and they assist us all, from the highest to the lowest.

2. ASSIGNMENTS OF SOLITARY MESSENGERS

Solitary Messengers are not permanently attached to any individual or group of
celestial personalities. They are on duty, always by assignment, and during

                                top of page - 258

such service they work under the immediate supervision of those who direct the
realms of their attachment. Among themselves they have neither organization nor
government of any kind; they are Solitary Messengers.

Solitary Messengers are assigned by the Infinite Spirit to the following seven
divisions of service:

1. Messengers of the Paradise Trinity.

2. Messengers of the Havona Circuits.

3. Messengers of the Superuniverses.

4. Messengers of the Local Universes.

5. Explorers of Undirected Assignment.

6. Ambassadors and Emissaries of Special Assignment.

7. Revelators of Truth.

These spirit messengers are in every sense interchangeable from one type of
service to another; such transfers are constantly taking place. There are no
separate orders of Solitary Messengers; they are spiritually alike and in every
sense equal. While they are generally designated by number, they are known to
the Infinite Spirit by personal names. They are known to the rest of us by the
name or number designative of their current assignment.

1. Messengers of the Paradise Trinity. I am not permitted to reveal much of the
work of the group of messengers assigned to the Trinity. They are the trusted
and secret servants of the Deities, and when intrusted with special messages
which involve the unrevealed policies and future conduct of the Gods, they have
never been known to divulge a secret or betray the confidence reposed in their
order. And all this is related in this connection, not to appear boastful of
their perfection, but rather to point out that the Deities can and do create
perfect beings.

The confusion and turmoil of Urantia do not signify that the Paradise Rulers
lack either interest or ability to manage affairs differently. The Creators are
possessed of full power to make Urantia a veritable paradise, but such an Eden
would not contribute to the development of those strong, noble, and experienced
characters which the Gods are so surely forging out on your world between the
anvils of necessity and the hammers of anguish. Your anxieties and sorrows,
your trials and disappointments, are just as much a part of the divine plan on
your sphere as are the exquisite perfection and infinite adaptation of all
things to their supreme purpose on the worlds of the central and perfect
universe.

2. Messengers of the Havona Circuits. Throughout the ascendant career you will
be vaguely, but increasingly, able to detect the presence of the Solitary
Messengers, but not until you reach Havona will you recognize them
unmistakably. The first of the messengers you will see face to face will be
those of the Havona circuits.

Solitary Messengers enjoy special relations with the natives of the Havona
worlds. These messengers, who are so functionally handicapped when associating
with one another, can and do have a very close and personal communion with the
Havona natives. But it is quite impossible to convey to human minds the supreme
satisfactions consequent upon the contact of the minds of these divinely
perfect beings with the spirits of such near-transcendent personalities.

                                top of page - 259

3. Messengers of the Superuniverses. The Ancients of Days, those personalities
of Trinity origin who preside over the destinies of the seven superuniverses,
those trios of divine power and administrative wisdom, are bountifully supplied
with Solitary Messengers. It is only through this order of messengers that the
triune rulers of one superuniverse can directly and personally communicate with
the rulers of another. Solitary Messengers are the only available type of
spirit intelligence--aside, possibly, from the Inspired Trinity Spirits--that
can be dispatched from the headquarters of one superuniverse directly to the
headquarters of another. All other personalities must make such excursions by
way of Havona and the executive worlds of the Master Spirits.

There are some kinds of information which cannot be obtained either by Gravity
Messengers, reflectivity, or broadcast. And when the Ancients of Days would
certainly know these things, they must dispatch a Solitary Messenger to the
source of knowledge. Long before the presence of life on Urantia the messenger
now associated with me was assigned on a mission out of Uversa to the central
universe--was absent from the roll calls of Orvonton for almost a million years
but returned in due time with the desired information.

There is no limitation upon the service of Solitary Messengers in the
superuniverses; they may function as executioners of the high tribunals or as
intelligence gatherers for the good of the realm. Of all the supercreations
they most delight to serve in Orvonton because here the need is greatest and
the opportunities for heroic effort are greatly multiplied. In the more needy
realms we all enjoy the satisfaction of a more replete function.

4. Messengers of the Local Universes. In the services of a local universe there
is no limit upon the functioning of the Solitary Messengers. They are the
faithful revealers of the motives and intent of the local universe Mother
Spirit, although they are under the full jurisdiction of the reigning Master
Son. And this is true of all messengers operating in a local universe, whether
they are traveling out directly from universe headquarters, or whether they are
acting temporarily in liaison with Constellation Fathers, System Sovereigns, or
Planetary Princes. Before the concentration of all power in the hands of a
Creator Son at the time of his elevation as sovereign ruler of his universe,
these messengers of the local universes function under the general direction of
the Ancients of Days and are immediately responsible to their resident
representative, the Union of Days.

5. Explorers of Undirected Assignment. When the reserve corps of the Solitary
Messengers is overrecruited, there issues from one of the Seven Supreme Power
Directors a call for exploration volunteers; and there is never a lack of
volunteers, for they delight to be dispatched as free and untrammeled
explorers, to experience the thrill of finding the organizing nucleuses of new
worlds and universes.

They go forth to investigate the clues furnished by the space contemplators of
the realms. Undoubtedly the Paradise Deities know of the existence of these
undiscovered energy systems of space, but they never divulge such information.
If the Solitary Messengers did not explore and chart these newly organizing
energy centers, such phenomena would long remain unnoticed even by the
intelligences of adjacent realms. Solitary Messengers, as a class, are highly
sensitive to gravity; accordingly they can sometimes detect the probable
presence of very small dark planets, the very worlds which are best adapted to
life experiments.

                                top of page - 260

These messenger-explorers of undirected assignment patrol the master universe.
They are constantly out on exploring expeditions to the uncharted regions of
all outer space. Very much of the information which we possess of transactions
in the realms of outer space, we owe to the explorations of the Solitary
Messengers as they often work and study with the celestial astronomers.

6. Ambassadors and Emissaries of Special Assignment. Local universes situated
within the same superuniverse customarily exchange ambassadors selected from
their native orders of sonship. But to avoid delay, Solitary Messengers are
frequently asked to go as ambassadors from one local creation to another, to
represent and interpret one realm to another. For example: When a newly
inhabited realm is discovered, it may prove to be so remote in space that a
long time will pass before an enseraphimed ambassador can reach this
far-distant universe. An enseraphimed being cannot possibly exceed the velocity
of 558,840 Urantia miles in one second of your time. Massive stars,
crosscurrents, and detours, as well as attraction tangents, will all tend to
retard such speed so that on a long journey the velocity will average about
550,000 miles per second.

When it develops that it will require hundreds of years for a native ambassador
to reach a far-distant local universe, a Solitary Messenger is often asked to
proceed there immediately to act as ambassador ad interim. Solitary Messengers
can go in very short order, not independently of time and space as do the
Gravity Messengers, but nearly so. They also serve in other circumstances as
emissaries of special assignment.

7. Revelators of Truth. The Solitary Messengers regard the assignment to reveal
truth as the highest trust of their order. And they function ever and anon in
this capacity, from the superuniverses to the individual planets of space. They
are frequently attached to commissions which are sent to enlarge the revelation
of truth to the worlds and systems.

3. TIME AND SPACE SERVICES OF SOLITARY MESSENGERS

The Solitary Messengers are the highest type of perfect and confidential
personality available in all realms for the quick transmission of important and
urgent messages when it is inexpedient to utilize either the broadcast service
or the reflectivity mechanism. They serve in an endless variety of assignments,
helping out the spiritual and material beings of the realms, particularly where
the element of time is involved. Of all orders assigned to the services of the
superuniverse domains, they are the highest and most versatile personalized
beings who can come so near to defying time and space.

The universe is well supplied with spirits who utilize gravity for purposes of
transit; they can go anywhere any time--instanter--but they are not persons.
Certain other gravity traversers are personal beings, such as Gravity
Messengers and Transcendental Recorders, but they are not available to the
super- and the local universe administrators. The worlds teem with angels and
men and other highly personal beings, but they are handicapped by time and
space: The limit of velocity for most nonenseraphimed beings is 186,280 miles
of your world per second of your time; the midway creatures and certain others
can, often do, attain double velocity--372,560 miles per second--while the
seraphim and others can traverse space at triple velocity, about 558,840 miles
per second.

                                top of page - 261

There are, however, no transit or messenger personalities who function between
the instantaneous velocities of the gravity traversers and the comparatively
slow speeds of the seraphim, except the Solitary Messengers.

Solitary Messengers are, therefore, generally used for dispatch and service in
those situations where personality is essential to the achievement of the
assignment, and where it is desired to avoid the loss of time which would be
occasioned by the sending of any other readily available type of personal
messenger. They are the only definitely personalized beings who can synchronize
with the combined universal currents of the grand universe. Their velocity in
traversing space is variable, depending on a great variety of interfering
influences, but the record shows that on the journey to fulfill this mission my
associate messenger proceeded at the rate of 841,621,642,000 of your miles per
second of your time.

It is wholly beyond my ability to explain to the material type of mind how a
spirit can be a real person and at the same time traverse space at such
tremendous velocities. But these very Solitary Messengers actually come to, and
go from, Urantia at these incomprehensible speeds; indeed, the whole economy of
universal administration would be largely deprived of its personal element were
this not a fact.

The Solitary Messengers are able to function as emergency lines of
communication throughout remote space regions, realms not embraced within the
established circuits of the grand universe. It develops that one messenger,
when so functioning, can transmit a message or send an impulse through space to
a fellow messenger about one hundred light-years away as Urantia astronomers
estimate stellar distances.

Of the myriads of beings who co-operate with us in the conduct of the affairs
of the superuniverse, none are more important in practical helpfulness and
timesaving assistance. In the universes of space we must reckon with the
handicaps of time; hence the great service of the Solitary Messengers, who, by
means of their personal prerogatives of communication, are somewhat independent
of space and, by virtue of their tremendous transit velocities, are so nearly
independent of time.

I am at a loss to explain to Urantia mortals how the Solitary Messengers can be
without form and yet possess real and definite personalities. Although they are
without that form which would naturally be associated with personality, they do
possess a spirit presence which is discernible by all higher types of spirit
beings. The Solitary Messengers are the only class of beings who seem to be
possessed of well-nigh all the advantages of a formless spirit coupled with all
the prerogatives of a full-fledged personality. They are true persons, yet
endowed with nearly all of the attributes of impersonal spirit manifestation.

In the seven superuniverses, ordinarily--but not always--everything which tends
to increase any creature's liberation from the handicaps of time and space
proportionately diminishes personality prerogatives. Solitary Messengers are an
exception to this general law. They are in their activities all but
unrestricted in the utilization of any and all of the limitless avenues of
spiritual expression, divine service, personal ministry, and cosmic
communication. If you could view these extraordinary beings in the light of my
experience in universe administration, you would comprehend how difficult it
would be to co-ordinate superuniverse affairs were it not for their versatile
co-operation.

                                top of page - 262

No matter how much the universe may enlarge, no more Solitary Messengers will
probably ever be created. As the universes grow, the expanded work of
administration must be increasingly borne by other types of spirit ministers
and by those beings who take origin in these new creations, such as the
creatures of the Sovereign Sons and the local universe Mother Spirits.

4. SPECIAL MINISTRY OF SOLITARY MESSENGERS

The Solitary Messengers seem to be personality co-ordinators for all types of
spirit beings. Their ministry helps to make all the personalities of the
far-flung spiritual world akin. They contribute much to the development, in all
spirit beings, of a consciousness of group identity. Every type of spirit being
is served by special groups of Solitary Messengers who foster the ability of
such beings to understand and fraternize with all other types and orders,
however dissimilar.

The Solitary Messengers demonstrate such an amazing ability to co-ordinate all
types and orders of finite personality--even to make contact with the absonite
regime of the master universe overcontrollers--that some of us postulate that
the creation of these messengers by the Infinite Spirit is in some manner
related to the Conjoint Actor's bestowal of Supreme-Ultimate Mind.

When a finaliter and a Paradise Citizen co-operate in the trinitization of a
"child of time and eternity"--a transaction involving the unrevealed mind
potentials of the Supreme-Ultimate--and when such an unclassified personality
is dispatched to Vicegerington, a Solitary Messenger (a conjectured personality
repercussion of the bestowal of such deity mind) is always assigned as
guardian-companion to such a creature-trinitized son. This messenger
accompanies the new son of destiny to the world of his assignment and nevermore
leaves Vicegerington. When thus attached to the destinies of a child of time
and eternity, a Solitary Messenger is forever transferred to the sole
supervision of the Architects of the Master Universe. What the future of such
an extraordinary association may be, we do not know. For ages these
partnerships of unique personalities have continued to forgather on
Vicegerington, but not even a single pair has ever gone forth therefrom.

Solitary Messengers are of stationary numbers, but the trinitization of the
sons of destiny is apparently an unlimited technique. Since each trinitized son
of destiny has assigned to him a Solitary Messenger, it appears to us that at
some time in the remote future the supply of messengers will become exhausted.
Who will take up their work in the grand universe? Will their service be
assumed by some new development among the Inspired Trinity Spirits? Is the
grand universe at some remote period going to be more nearly administered by
Trinity-origin beings while the single- and dual-origin creatures move on into
the realms of outer space? If the messengers return to their former service,
will these sons of destiny accompany them? Will the trinitizations between
finaliters and Paradise-Havoners cease when the supply of Solitary Messengers
has been absorbed as guardian-companions of these sons of destiny? Are all our
efficient Solitary Messengers going to be concentrated on Vicegerington? Are
these extraordinary spirit personalities going to be eternally associated with
these trinitized sons of unrevealed destiny? What significance should we attach
to the fact that these couples forgathering on Vicegerington are under the
exclusive direction of those mighty mystery beings, the Architects of the
Master Universe? These

                                top of page - 263

and many similar questions we ask ourselves, and ask numerous other orders of
celestial beings, but we do not know the answers.

This transaction, together with many similar occurrences in universe
administration, unmistakably indicates that the personnel of the grand
universe, even that of Havona and Paradise, is undergoing a definite and
certain reorganization in co-ordination with, and with reference to, the vast
energy evolutions now taking place throughout the realms of outer space.

We incline to the belief that the eternal future will witness phenomena of
universe evolution which will far transcend all that the eternal past has
experienced. And we anticipate such tremendous adventures, even as you should,
with keen relish and ever-heightening expectation.

[Presented by a Divine Counselor from Uversa.]

                                top of page - 264

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³  The Trinitized  ³      Higher       ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³       ...        ³    Personal...    ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
