       Urantia Book Paper 24 Higher Personalities Of The Infinite Spirit
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Paper 24 Higher Personalities Of The Infinite Spirit

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

ON UVERSA we divide all personalities and entities of the Conjoint Creator into
three grand divisions: the Higher Personalities of the Infinite Spirit, the
Messenger Hosts of Space, and the Ministering Spirits of Time, those spirit
beings who are concerned with teaching and ministering to the will creatures of
the ascendant scheme of mortal progression.

Those Higher Personalities of the Infinite Spirit that find mention in these
narratives function throughout the grand universe in seven divisions:

1. Solitary Messengers.

2. Universe Circuit Supervisors.

3. Census Directors.

4. Personal Aids of the Infinite Spirit.

5. Associate Inspectors.

6. Assigned Sentinels.

7. Graduate Guides.

Solitary Messengers, Circuit Supervisors, Census Directors, and the Personal
Aids are characterized by the possession of tremendous endowments of
antigravity. The Solitary Messengers are without known general headquarters;
they roam the universe of universes. The Universe Circuit Supervisors and the
Census Directors maintain headquarters on the capitals of the superuniverses.
The Personal Aids of the Infinite Spirit are stationed on the central Isle of
Light. The Associate Inspectors and the Assigned Sentinels are respectively
stationed on the capitals of the local universes and on the capitals of their
component systems. The Graduate Guides are resident in the Havona universe and
function on all its billion worlds. Most of these higher personalities have
stations in the local universes, but they are not organically attached to the
administrations of the evolutionary realms.

Of the seven classes composing this group, only the Solitary Messengers and
perhaps the Personal Aids range the universe of universes. Solitary Messengers
are encountered from Paradise outward: through the Havona circuits to the
superuniverse capitals and thence out through the sectors and local universes,
with their subdivisions, and even to the inhabited worlds. Although Solitary
Messengers belong to the Higher Personalities of the Infinite Spirit, their
origin, nature, and service have been discussed in the preceding paper.

                                top of page - 265

1. THE UNIVERSE CIRCUIT SUPERVISORS

The vast power currents of space and the circuits of spirit energy may seem to
operate automatically; they may appear to function without let or hindrance,
but such is not the case. All these stupendous systems of energy are under
control; they are subject to intelligent supervision. Universe Circuit
Supervisors are concerned, not with the realms of purely physical or material
energy--the domain of the Universe Power Directors--but with the circuits of
relative spiritual energy and with those modified circuits which are essential
to the maintenance of both the highly developed spiritual beings and the
morontia or transition type of intelligent creatures. The supervisors do not
give origin to circuits of energy and superessence of divinity, but in general
they have to do with all higher spirit circuits of time and eternity and with
all relative spirit circuits concerned in the administration of the component
parts of the grand universe. They direct and manipulate all such spirit-energy
circuits outside the Isle of Paradise.

Universe Circuit Supervisors are the exclusive creation of the Infinite Spirit,
and they function solely as the agents of the Conjoint Actor. They are
personalized for service in the following four orders:

1. Supreme Circuit Supervisors.

2. Associate Circuit Supervisors.

3. Secondary Circuit Supervisors.

4. Tertiary Circuit Supervisors.

The supreme supervisors of Havona and the associate supervisors of the seven
superuniverses are of completed numbers; no more of these orders are being
created. The supreme supervisors are seven in number and are stationed on the
pilot worlds of the seven Havona circuits. The circuits of the seven
superuniverses are in the charge of a marvelous group of seven associate
supervisors, who maintain headquarters on the seven Paradise spheres of the
Infinite Spirit, the worlds of the Seven Supreme Executives. From here they
supervise and direct the circuits of the superuniverses of space.

On these Paradise spheres of the Spirit the seven associate circuit supervisors
and the first order of the Supreme Power Centers effect a liaison which, under
the direction of the Supreme Executives, results in the sub-Paradise
co-ordination of all material and spiritual circuits passing out to the seven
superuniverses.

On the headquarters worlds of each superuniverse are stationed the secondary
supervisors for the local universes of time and space. The major and minor
sectors are administrative divisions of the supergovernments but are not
concerned in these matters of spirit-energy supervision. I do not know how many
secondary circuit supervisors there are in the grand universe, but on Uversa
there are 84,691 of these beings. Secondary supervisors are being created right
along; from time to time they appear in groups of seventy on the worlds of the
Supreme Executives. We obtain them on requisition as we arrange for the
establishment of separate circuits of spirit energy and liaison power to the
newly evolving universes of our jurisdiction.

A tertiary circuit supervisor functions on the headquarters world of every
local universe. This order, like the secondary supervisors, is of continuous
creation, being created in groups of seven hundred. They are assigned to the
local universes by the Ancients of Days.

                                top of page - 266

Circuit supervisors are created for their specific tasks, and they eternally
serve in the groups of their original assignment. They are not rotated in
service and hence make an agelong study of the problems found in the realms of
their original assignment. For example: Tertiary circuit supervisor No. 572,842
has functioned on Salvington since the early concept of your local universe,
and he is a member of the personal staff of Michael of Nebadon.

Whether acting in the local or higher universes, circuit supervisors direct all
concerned as to the proper circuits to employ for the transmission of all
spirit messages and for the transit of all personalities. In their work of
circuit supervision these efficient beings utilize all agencies, forces, and
personalities in the universe of universes. They employ the unrevealed "high
spirit personalities of circuit control" and are ably assisted by numerous
staffs composed of personalities of the Infinite Spirit. It is they who would
isolate an evolutionary world if its Planetary Prince should rebel against the
Universal Father and his vicegerent Son. They are able to throw any world out
of certain universe circuits of the higher spiritual order, but they cannot
annul the material currents of the power directors.

The Universe Circuit Supervisors have something of the same relationship to
spirit circuits that the Universe Power Directors have to material circuits.
The two orders are complemental, together having the oversight of all spirit
and all material circuits that are controllable and manipulatable by creatures.

The circuit supervisors exercise certain oversight of those mind circuits which
are spirit associated much as the power directors have certain jurisdiction
over those phases of mind which are physical-energy associated--mechanical
mind. In general the functions of each order are expanded by liaison with the
other, but the circuits of pure mind are subject to the supervision of neither.
Neither are the two orders co-ordinate; in all their manifold labors the
Universe Circuit Supervisors are subject to the Seven Supreme Power Directors
and their subordinates.

While the circuit supervisors are entirely alike within their respective
orders, they are all distinct individuals. They are truly personal beings, but
they possess a type of other-than-Father-endowed personality not encountered in
any other type of creature in all universal existence.

Although you will recognize and know them as you journey inward towards
Paradise, you will have no personal relations with them. They are circuit
supervisors, and they attend strictly and efficiently to their business. They
deal solely with those personalities and entities having the oversight of those
activities which are concerned with the circuits subject to their supervision.

2. THE CENSUS DIRECTORS

Notwithstanding that the cosmic mind of the Universal Intelligence is cognizant
of the presence and whereabouts of all thinking creatures, there is operative
in the universe of universes an independent method of keeping count of all will
creatures.

The Census Directors are a special and completed creation of the Infinite
Spirit, and they exist in numbers unknown to us. They are so created as to be
able to maintain perfect synchrony with the reflectivity technique of the
super-

                                top of page - 267

universes, while at the same time they are personally sensitive and responsive
to intelligent will. These directors, by a not-fully-understood technique, are
made immediately aware of the birth of will in any part of the grand universe.
They are, therefore, always competent to give us the number, nature, and
whereabouts of all will creatures in any part of the central creation and the
seven superuniverses. But they do not function on Paradise; there is no need
for them there. On Paradise knowledge is inherent; the Deities know all things.

Seven Census Directors operate in Havona, one being stationed on the pilot
world of each Havona circuit. Excepting these seven and the reserves of the
order on the Paradise worlds of the Spirit, all Census Directors function under
the jurisdiction of the Ancients of Days.

One Census Director presides at the headquarters of each superuniverse, while
subject to such a chief director are thousands upon thousands, one on the
capital of every local universe. All personalities of this order are equal
excepting those on the Havona pilot worlds and the seven superuniverse chiefs.

In the seventh superuniverse there are one hundred thousand Census Directors.
And this number consists entirely of those assignable to local universes; it
does not include the personal staff of Usatia, the superuniverse chief of all
Orvonton directors. Usatia, like the other superuniverse chiefs, is not
directly attuned to the registration of intelligent will. He is solely attuned
to his subordinates stationed in the Orvonton universes; thus he acts as a
magnificent totaling personality for their reports coming in from the capitals
of the local creations.

From time to time the official recorders of Uversa place on their records the
status of the superuniverse as it is indicated by the registrations in and upon
the personality of Usatia. Such census data is indigenous to the
superuniverses; these reports are transmitted neither to Havona nor to
Paradise.

The Census Directors are concerned with human beings--as with other will
creatures--only to the extent of recording the fact of will function. They are
not concerned with the records of your life and its doings; they are not in any
sense recording personalities. The Census Director of Nebadon, number 81,412 of
Orvonton, now stationed on Salvington, is at this very moment personally
conscious and aware of your living presence here on Urantia; and he will afford
the records confirmation of your death the moment you cease to function as a
will creature.

Census Directors register the existence of a new will creature when the first
act of will is performed; they indicate the death of a will creature when the
last act of will takes place. The partial emergence of will observed in the
reactions of certain of the higher animals does not belong to the domain of the
Census Directors. They keep count of nothing but bona fide will creatures, and
they are responsive to nothing but will function. Exactly how they register the
function of will, we do not know.

These beings always have been, and always will be, Census Directors. They would
be comparatively useless in any other division of universe labor. But they are
infallible in function; they never default, neither do they falsify. And
notwithstanding their marvelous powers and unbelievable prerogatives, they are
persons; they have recognizable spirit presence and form.

                                top of page - 268

3. PERSONAL AIDS OF THE INFINITE SPIRIT

We have no authentic knowledge as to the time or manner of the creation of the
Personal Aids. Their number must be legion, but it is not of record on Uversa.
From conservative deductions based on our knowledge of their work, I venture to
estimate that their number extends high into the trillions. We hold the opinion
that the Infinite Spirit is not limited as to numbers in the creation of these
Personal Aids.

The Personal Aids of the Infinite Spirit exist for the exclusive assistance of
the Paradise presence of the Third Person of Deity. Although attached directly
to the Infinite Spirit and located on Paradise, they flash to and fro to the
uttermost parts of creation. Wherever the circuits of the Conjoint Creator
extend, there these Personal Aids may appear for the purpose of executing the
bidding of the Infinite Spirit. They traverse space much as do the Solitary
Messengers but are not persons in the sense that the messengers are.

The Personal Aids are all equal and identical; they disclose no differentiation
of individuality. Though the Conjoint Actor looks upon them as true
personalities, it is difficult for others to regard them as real persons; they
do not manifest a spirit presence to other spirit beings. Paradise-origin
beings are always aware of the proximity of these Aids; but we do not recognize
a personality presence. The lack of such a presence-form undoubtedly renders
them all the more serviceable to the Third Person of Deity.

Of all the revealed orders of spirit beings taking origin in the Infinite
Spirit, the Personal Aids are about the only ones you will not encounter on
your inward ascent to Paradise.

4. THE ASSOCIATE INSPECTORS

The Seven Supreme Executives, on the seven Paradise spheres of the Infinite
Spirit, collectively function as the administrative board of supermanagers for
the seven superuniverses. The Associate Inspectors are the personal embodiment
of the authority of the Supreme Executives to the local universes of time and
space. These high observers of the affairs of the local creations are the joint
offspring of the Infinite Spirit and the Seven Master Spirits of Paradise. In
the near times of eternity seven hundred thousand were personalized, and their
reserve corps abides on Paradise.

Associate Inspectors work under the direct supervision of the Seven Supreme
Executives, being their personal and powerful representatives to the local
universes of time and space. An inspector is stationed on the headquarters
sphere of each local creation and is a close associate of the resident Union of
Days.

The Associate Inspectors receive reports and recommendations only from their
subordinates, the Assigned Sentinels, stationed on the capitals of the local
systems of inhabited worlds, while they make reports only to their immediate
superior, the Supreme Executive of the superuniverse concerned.

5. THE ASSIGNED SENTINELS

The Assigned Sentinels are co-ordinating personalities and liaison
representatives of the Seven Supreme Executives. They were personalized on
Paradise by

                                top of page - 269

the Infinite Spirit and were created for the specific purposes of their
assignment. They are of stationary numbers, and there are exactly seven billion
in existence.

Much as an Associate Inspector represents the Seven Supreme Executives to a
whole local universe, so in each of the ten thousand systems of that local
creation there is an Assigned Sentinel, who acts as the direct representative
of the far-distant and supreme board of supercontrol for the affairs of all
seven superuniverses. The sentinels on duty in the local system governments of
Orvonton are acting under the direct authority of Supreme Executive Number
Seven, the co-ordinator of the seventh superuniverse. But in their
administrative organization all sentinels commissioned in a local universe are
subordinate to the Associate Inspector stationed at universe headquarters.

Within a local creation the Assigned Sentinels serve in rotation, being
transferred from system to system. They are usually changed every millennium of
local universe time. They are among the highest ranking personalities stationed
on a system capital, but they never participate in deliberations concerned with
system affairs. In the local systems they serve as the ex officio heads of the
four and twenty administrators hailing from the evolutionary worlds, but
otherwise, ascending mortals have little contact with them. The sentinels are
almost exclusively concerned in keeping the Associate Inspector of their
universe fully informed on all matters relating to the welfare and state of the
systems of their assignment.

Assigned Sentinels and Associate Inspectors do not report to the Supreme
Executives through a superuniverse headquarters. They are responsible solely to
the Supreme Executive of the superuniverse concerned; their activities are
distinct from the administration of the Ancients of Days.

The Supreme Executives, Associate Inspectors, and Assigned Sentinels, together
with the omniaphim and a host of unrevealed personalities, constitute an
efficient, direct, centralized, but far-flung system of advisory and
administrative co-ordination of all the grand universe of things and beings.

6. THE GRADUATE GUIDES

The Graduate Guides, as a group, sponsor and conduct the high university of
technical instruction and spiritual training which is so essential to mortal
attainment of the goal of the ages: God, rest, and then eternity of perfected
service. These highly personal beings take their name from the nature and
purpose of their work. They are exclusively devoted to the tasks of guiding the
mortal graduates from the superuniverses of time through the Havona course of
instruction and training which serves to prepare the ascending pilgrims for
admission to Paradise and the Corps of the Finality.

I am not forbidden to undertake to tell you of the work of these Graduate
Guides, but it is so ultraspiritual that I despair of being able to adequately
portray to the material mind a concept of their manifold activities. On the
mansion worlds, after your vision range is extended and you are freed from the
fetters of material comparisons, you can begin to comprehend the meaning of
those realities which "eye cannot see nor ear hear, and which have never
entered the concept of human minds," even those things which "God has prepared
for those who love such eternal verities." You are not always to be so limited
in the range of your vision and spiritual comprehension.

                                top of page - 270

The Graduate Guides are engaged in piloting the pilgrims of time through the
seven circuits of Havona worlds. The guide who greets you upon your arrival on
the receiving world of the outer Havona circuit will remain with you throughout
your entire career on the heavenly circuits. Though you will associate with
countless other personalities during your sojourn on a billion worlds, your
Graduate Guide will follow you to the end of your Havona progression and will
witness your entrance into the terminal slumber of time, the sleep of eternity
transit to the Paradise goal, where, upon awakening, you will be greeted by the
Paradise Companion assigned to welcome you and perhaps to remain with you until
you are initiated as a member of the Mortal Corps of the Finality.

The number of Graduate Guides is beyond the power of human minds to grasp, and
they continue to appear. Their origin is something of a mystery. They have not
existed from eternity; they mysteriously appear as they are needed. There is no
record of a Graduate Guide in all the realms of the central universe until that
far-distant day when the first mortal pilgrim of all time made his way to the
outer belt of the central creation. The instant he arrived on the pilot world
of the outer circuit, he was met with friendly greetings by Malvorian, the
first of the Graduate Guides and now the chief of their supreme council and the
director of their vast educational organization.

On the Paradise records of Havona, in the section denominated "Graduate
Guides," there appears this initial entry:

"And Malvorian, the first of this order, did greet and instruct the pilgrim
discoverer of Havona and did conduct him from the outer circuits of initial
experience, step by step and circuit by circuit, until he stood in the very
presence of the Source and Destiny of all personality, subsequently crossing
the threshold of eternity to Paradise."

At that far-distant time I was attached to the service of the Ancients of Days
on Uversa, and we all rejoiced in the assurance that, eventually, pilgrims from
our superuniverse would reach Havona. For ages we had been taught that the
evolutionary creatures of space would attain Paradise, and the thrill of all
time swept through the heavenly courts when the first pilgrim actually arrived.

The name of this pilgrim discoverer of Havona is Grandfanda, and he hailed from
planet 341 of system 84 in constellation 62 of local universe 1,131 situated in
superuniverse number one. His arrival was the signal for the establishment of
the broadcast service of the universe of universes. Theretofore only the
broadcasts of the superuniverses and the local universes had been in operation,
but the announcement of the arrival of Grandfanda at the portals of Havona
signalized the inauguration of the "space reports of glory," so named because
the initial universe broadcast reported the Havona arrival of the first of the
evolutionary beings to attain entrance upon the goal of ascendant existence.

Graduate Guides never leave the Havona worlds; they are dedicated to the
service of the graduate pilgrims of time and space. And you will sometime meet
these noble beings face to face if you do not reject the certain and
all-perfected plan designed to effect your survival and ascension.

7. ORIGIN OF THE GRADUATE GUIDES

Though evolution is not the order of the central universe, we believe that the
Graduate Guides are the perfected or more experienced members of another

                                top of page - 271

order of central universe creatures, the Havona Servitals. Graduate Guides show
such a breadth of sympathy and such a capacity for understanding the ascendant
creatures that we are convinced they have gained this culture by actual service
in the superuniverse realms as the Havona Servitals of universal ministry. If
this view is not correct, how then can we account for the continuous
disappearance of the senior or more experienced servitals?

A servital will be long absent from Havona on superuniverse assignment, having
been on many such missions previously, will return home, be granted the
privilege of "personal contact" with the Paradise Central Shining, will be
embraced by the Luminous Persons, and disappear from the recognition of his
spirit fellows, never more to reappear among those of his kind.

On returning from superuniverse service, a Havona Servital may enjoy numerous
divine embraces and emerge therefrom merely an exalted servital. Experiencing
the luminous embrace does not necessarily signify that the servital must
translate into a Graduate Guide, but almost one quarter of those who achieve
the divine embrace never return to the service of the realms.

There appears on the high records a succession of such entries as this:

"And servital number 842,842,682,846,782 of Havona, named Sudna, came over from
the superuniverse service, was received on Paradise, knew the Father, entered
the divine embrace, and is not."

When such an entry appears on the records, the career of such a servital is
closed. But in just three moments (a little less than three days of your time)
a newborn Graduate Guide "spontaneously" appears on the outer circuit of the
Havona universe. And the number of Graduate Guides, allowing for a slight
difference, due no doubt to those in transition, exactly equals the number of
vanished servitals.

There is an additional reason for supposing the Graduate Guides to be evolved
Havona Servitals, and that is the unfailing tendency of these guides and their
associated servitals to form such extraordinary attachments. The manner in
which these supposedly separate orders of beings understand and sympathize with
one another is wholly inexplicable. It is refreshing and inspiring to witness
their mutual devotion.

The Seven Master Spirits and the associated Seven Supreme Power Directors,
respectively, are the personal repositories of the mind potential and of the
power potential of the Supreme Being which he does not, as yet, operate
personally. And when these Paradise associates collaborate to create the Havona
Servitals, the latter are inherently involved in certain phases of Supremacy.
Havona Servitals are thus, in actuality, a reflection in the perfect central
universe of certain evolutionary potentialities of the time-space domains, all
of which is disclosed when a servital undergoes transformation and re-creation.
We believe that this transformation takes place in response to the will of the
Infinite Spirit, undoubtedly acting in behalf of the Supreme. Graduate Guides
are not created by the Supreme Being, but we all conjecture that experiential
Deity is in some way concerned in those transactions which bring these beings
into existence.

The Havona now traversed by ascending mortals differs in many respects from the
central universe as it was before the times of Grandfanda. The arrival of
mortal ascenders on the Havona circuits inaugurated sweeping modifications

                                top of page - 272

in the organization of the central and divine creation, modifications
undoubtedly initiated by the Supreme Being--the God of evolutionary
creatures--in response to the arrival of the first of his experiential children
from the seven superuniverses. The appearance of the Graduate Guides, together
with the creation of the tertiary supernaphim, is indicative of these
performances of God the Supreme.

[Presented by a Divine Counselor of Uversa.]

                                top of page - 273

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   The Solitary   ³   The Messenger   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Me...       ³       H...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
