              Urantia Book Paper 25 The Messenger Hosts Of Space
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 25 The Messenger Hosts Of Space

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

RANKING intermediately in the family of the Infinite Spirit are the Messenger
Hosts of Space. These versatile beings function as the connecting links between
the higher personalities and the ministering spirits. The messenger hosts
include the following orders of celestial beings:

1. Havona Servitals.

2. Universal Conciliators.

3. Technical Advisers.

4. Custodians of Records on Paradise.

5. Celestial Recorders.

6. Morontia Companions.

7. Paradise Companions.

Of the seven groups enumerated, only three--servitals, conciliators, and
Morontia Companions--are created as such; the remaining four represent
attainment levels of the angelic orders. In accordance with inherent nature and
attained status, the messenger hosts variously serve in the universe of
universes but always subject to the direction of those who rule the realms of
their assignment.

1. THE HAVONA SERVITALS

Though denominated servitals, these "midway creatures" of the central universe
are not servants in any menial sense of the word. In the spiritual world there
is no such thing as menial work; all service is sacred and exhilarating;
neither do the higher orders of beings look down upon the lower orders of
existence.

The Havona Servitals are the joint creative work of the Seven Master Spirits
and their associates, the Seven Supreme Power Directors. This creative
collaboration comes the nearest to being the pattern for the long list of
reproductions of the dual order in the evolutionary universes, extending from
the creation of a Bright and Morning Star by a Creator Son-Creative Spirit
liaison down to sex procreation on worlds like Urantia.

The number of servitals is prodigious, and more are being created all the time.
They appear in groups of one thousand on the third moment following the
assembly of the Master Spirits and the Supreme Power Directors at their joint
area in the far northerly sector of Paradise. Every fourth servital is more
physical in type than the others; that is, out of each thousand, seven hundred
and fifty are apparently true to spirit type, but two hundred and fifty are
semi-

                                top of page - 274

physical in nature. These fourth creatures are somewhat on the order of
material beings (material in the Havona sense), resembling the physical power
directors more than the Master Spirits.

In personality relationships the spiritual is dominant over the material, even
though it does not now so appear on Urantia; and in the production of Havona
Servitals the law of spirit dominance prevails; the established ratio yields
three spiritual beings to one semiphysical.

The newly created servitals, together with newly appearing Graduate Guides, all
pass through the courses of training which the senior guides continuously
conduct on each of the seven Havona circuits. Servitals are then assigned to
the activities for which they are best adapted, and since they are of two
types--spiritual and semiphysical--there are few limits to the range of work
these versatile beings can do. The higher or spirit groups are assigned
selectively to the services of the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, and to the
work of the Seven Master Spirits. In large numbers they are dispatched, from
time to time, to serve on the study worlds encircling the headquarters spheres
of the seven superuniverses, the worlds devoted to the final training and
spiritual culture of the ascending souls of time who are preparing for
advancement to the circuits of Havona. Both spirit servitals and their more
physical fellows are also designated assistants and associates of the Graduate
Guides in helping and instructing the various orders of ascending creatures who
have attained Havona, and who seek to attain Paradise.

The Havona Servitals and the Graduate Guides manifest a transcendent devotion
to their work and a touching affection for one another, an affection which,
while spiritual, you could only understand by comparison with the phenomenon of
human love. There is divine pathos in the separation of the servitals from the
guides, as so often occurs when the servitals are dispatched on missions beyond
the limits of the central universe; but they go with joy and not with sorrow.
The satisfying joy of high duty is the eclipsing emotion of spiritual beings.
Sorrow cannot exist in the face of the consciousness of divine duty faithfully
performed. And when man's ascending soul stands before the Supreme Judge, the
decision of eternal import will not be determined by material successes or
quantitative achievements; the verdict reverberating through the high courts
declares: "Well done, good and faithful servant; you have been faithful over a
few essentials; you shall be made ruler over universe realities."

On superuniverse service the Havona Servitals are always assigned to that
domain presided over by the Master Spirit whom they most resemble in general
and special spirit prerogatives. They serve only on the educational worlds
surrounding the capitals of the seven superuniverses, and the last report of
Uversa indicates that almost 138 billion servitals were ministering on its 490
satellites. They engage in an endless variety of activities in connection with
the work of these educational worlds comprising the superuniversities of the
superuniverse of Orvonton. Here they are your companions; they have come down
from your next career to study you and to inspire you with the reality and
certainty of your eventual graduation from the universes of time to the realms
of eternity. And in these contacts the servitals gain that preliminary
experience of ministering to the ascending creatures of time which is so
helpful in their subsequent work on the Havona circuits as associates of the
Graduate Guides or--as translated servitals--as Graduate Guides themselves.

                                top of page - 275

2. THE UNIVERSAL CONCILIATORS

For every Havona Servital created, seven Universal Conciliators are brought
into being, one in each superuniverse. This creative enactment involves a
definite superuniverse technique of reflective response to transactions taking
place on Paradise.

On the headquarters worlds of the seven superuniverses there function the seven
reflections of the Seven Master Spirits. It is difficult to undertake to
portray the natures of these Reflective Spirits to material minds. They are
true personalities; still each member of a superuniverse group is perfectly
reflective of just one of the Seven Master Spirits. And every time the Master
Spirits associate themselves with the power directors for the purpose of
creating a group of Havona Servitals, there is a simultaneous focalization upon
one of the Reflective Spirits in each of the superuniverse groups, and
forthwith and full-fledgedly an equal number of Universal Conciliators appear
on the headquarters worlds of the supercreations. If, in the creation of
servitals, Master Spirit Number Seven should take the initiative, none but the
Reflective Spirits of the seventh order would become pregnant with
conciliators; and concurrently with the creation of one thousand Orvontonlike
servitals, one thousand of the seventh-order conciliators would appear on each
superuniverse capital. Out of these episodes, reflecting the sevenfold nature
of the Master Spirits, arise the seven created orders of conciliators serving
in each superuniverse.

Conciliators of pre-Paradise status do not serve interchangeably between
superuniverses, being restricted to their native segments of creation. Every
superuniverse corps, embracing one seventh of each created order, therefore
spends a very long time under the influence of one of the Master Spirits to the
exclusion of the others, for, while all seven are reflected on the
superuniverse capitals, only one is dominant in each supercreation.

Each of the seven supercreations is actually pervaded by that one of the Master
Spirits who presides over its destinies. Each superuniverse thus becomes like a
gigantic mirror reflecting the nature and character of the supervising Master
Spirit, and all of this is further continued in every subsidiary local universe
by the presence and function of the Creative Mother Spirits. The effect of such
an environment upon evolutionary growth is so profound that in their
postsuperuniverse careers the conciliators collectively manifest forty-nine
experiential viewpoints, or insights, each angular--hence incomplete--but all
mutually compensatory and together tending to encompass the circle of
Supremacy.

In each superuniverse the Universal Conciliators find themselves strangely and
innately segregated into groups of four, associations in which they continue to
serve. In each group, three are spirit personalities, and one, like the fourth
creatures of the servitals, is a semimaterial being. This quartet constitutes a
conciliating commission and is made up as follows:

1. The Judge-Arbiter. The one unanimously designated by the other three as the
most competent and best qualified to act as judicial head of the group.

2. The Spirit-Advocate. The one appointed by the judge-arbiter to present
evidence and to safeguard the rights of all personalities involved in any
matter assigned to the adjudication of the conciliating commission.

                                top of page - 276

3. The Divine Executioner. The conciliator qualified by inherent nature to make
contact with the material beings of the realms and to execute the decisions of
the commission. Divine executioners, being fourth creatures--quasi-material
beings--are almost, but not quite, visible to the short-range vision of the
mortal races.

4. The Recorder. The remaining member of the commission automatically becomes
the recorder, the clerk of the tribunal. He makes certain that all records are
properly prepared for the archives of the superuniverse and for the records of
the local universe. If the commission is serving on an evolutionary world, a
third report, with the assistance of the executioner, is prepared for the
physical records of the system government of jurisdiction.

When in session a commission functions as a group of three since the advocate
is detached during adjudication and participates in the formulation of the
verdict only at the conclusion of the hearing. Hence these commissions are
sometimes called referee trios.

The conciliators are of great value in keeping the universe of universes
running smoothly. Traversing space at the seraphic rate of triple velocity,
they serve as the traveling courts of the worlds, commissions devoted to the
quick adjudication of minor difficulties. Were it not for these mobile and
eminently fair commissions, the tribunals of the spheres would be hopelessly
overspread with the minor misunderstandings of the realms.

These referee trios do not pass upon matters of eternal import; the soul, the
eternal prospects of a creature of time, is never placed in jeopardy by their
acts. Conciliators do not deal with questions extending beyond the temporal
existence and the cosmic welfare of the creatures of time. But when a
commission has once accepted jurisdiction of a problem, its rulings are final
and always unanimous; there is no appeal from the decision of the
judge-arbiter.

3. THE FAR-REACHING SERVICE OF CONCILIATORS

Conciliators maintain group headquarters on the capital of their superuniverse,
where their primary reserve corps is held. Their secondary reserves are
stationed on the capitals of the local universes. The younger and less
experienced commissioners begin their service on the lower worlds, worlds like
Urantia, and are advanced to the adjudication of greater problems after they
have acquired riper experience.

The order of conciliators is wholly dependable; not one has ever gone astray.
Though not infallible in wisdom and judgment, they are of unquestioned
reliability and unerring in faithfulness. They take origin on the headquarters
of a superuniverse and eventually return thereto, advancing through the
following levels of universe service:

1. Conciliators to the Worlds. Whenever the supervising personalities of the
individual worlds become greatly perplexed or actually deadlocked concerning
the proper procedure under existing circumstances, and if the matter is not of
sufficient importance to be brought before the regularly constituted tribunals
of the realm, then, upon the receipt of a petition of two personalities, one
from each contention, a conciliating commission will begin to function
forthwith.

                                top of page - 277

When these administrative and jurisdictional difficulties have been placed in
the hands of the conciliators for study and adjudication, they are supreme in
authority. But they will not formulate a decision until all the evidence has
been heard, and there is absolutely no limit to their authority to call
witnesses from anywhere and everywhere. And while their decisions may not be
appealed, sometimes matters so develop that the commission closes its records
at a given point, concludes its opinions, and transfers the whole question to
the higher tribunals of the realm.

The commissioners' decisions are placed on the planetary records and, if
necessary, are put into effect by the divine executioner. His power is very
great, and the range of his activities on an inhabited world is very wide.
Divine executioners are masterful manipulators of that which is in the
interests of that which ought to be. Their work is sometimes carried out for
the apparent welfare of the realm, and sometimes their acts on the worlds of
time and space are difficult of explanation. Though executing decrees in
defiance of neither natural law nor the ordained usages of the realm, they do
ofttimes effect their strange doings and enforce the mandates of the
conciliators in accordance with the higher laws of the system administration.

2. Conciliators to the System Headquarters. From service on the evolutionary
worlds these commissions of four are advanced to duty on a system headquarters.
Here they have much work to do, and they prove to be the understanding friends
of men, angels, and other spirit beings. The referee trios are not so much
concerned with personal differences as with group contentions and with
misunderstandings arising between different orders of creatures; and on a
system headquarters there live both spiritual and material beings, as well as
the combined types, such as the Material Sons.

The moment the Creators bring into existence evolving individuals with the
power of choice, that moment a departure is made from the smooth working of
divine perfection; misunderstandings are certain to arise, and provision for
the fair adjustment of these honest differences of viewpoint must be made. We
should all remember that the all-wise and all-powerful Creators could have made
the local universes just as perfect as Havona. No conciliating commissions need
function in the central universe. But the Creators did not choose in their
all-wisdom to do this. And while they have produced universes which abound in
differences and teem with difficulties, they have likewise provided the
mechanisms and the means for composing all these differences and for
harmonizing all this seeming confusion.

3. The Constellation Conciliators. From service in the systems the conciliators
are promoted to the adjudication of the problems of a constellation, taking up
the minor difficulties arising between its one hundred systems of inhabited
worlds. Not many problems developing on the constellation headquarters fall
under their jurisdiction, but they are kept busy going from system to system
gathering evidence and preparing preliminary statements. If the contention is
honest, if the difficulties arise out of sincere differences of opinion and
honest diversity of viewpoints, no matter how few persons may be involved, no
matter how apparently trivial the misunderstanding, a conciliating commission
can always be had to pass upon the merits of the controversy.

4. Conciliators to the Local Universes. In this larger work of a universe the
commissioners are of great assistance to both the Melchizedeks and the Magis-

                                top of page - 278

terial Sons and to the constellation rulers and the hosts of personalities
concerned with the co-ordination and administration of the one hundred
constellations. The different orders of seraphim and other residents of the
headquarters spheres of a local universe also avail themselves of the help and
decisions of the referee trios.

It is almost impossible to explain the nature of those differences which may
arise in the detailed affairs of a system, a constellation, or a universe.
Difficulties do develop, but they are very unlike the petty trials and travails
of material existence as it is lived on the evolutionary worlds.

5. Conciliators to the Superuniverse Minor Sectors. From the problems of local
universes the commissioners are advanced to the study of questions arising in
the minor sectors of their superuniverse. The farther they ascend inward from
the individual planets, the fewer are the material duties of the divine
executioner; gradually he assumes a new role of mercy-justice interpreter, at
the same time--being quasi-material--keeping the commission as a whole in
sympathetic touch with the material aspects of its investigations.

6. Conciliators to the Superuniverse Major Sectors. The character of the work
of the commissioners continues to change as they advance. There is less and
less of misunderstanding to adjudicate and more and more of mysterious
phenomena to explain and interpret. From stage to stage they are evolving from
arbiters of differences to explainers of mysteries--judges evolving into
interpretative teachers. Arbiters of those who through ignorance permit
difficulties and misunderstandings to arise, they once were; but they are now
becoming instructors of those who are sufficiently intelligent and tolerant to
avoid clashes of mind and wars of opinions. The higher a creature's education,
the more respect he has for the knowledge, experience, and opinions of others.

7. Conciliators to the Superuniverse. Here the conciliators become
co-ordinate--four mutually understood and perfectly functioning
arbiter-teachers. The divine executioner is divested of retributive power and
becomes the physical voice of the spirit trio. By this time these counselors
and teachers have become expertly familiar with most of the actual problems and
difficulties encountered in the conduct of superuniverse affairs. Thus they
become wonderful advisers and wise teachers of the ascending pilgrims who are
in residence on the educational spheres surrounding the headquarters worlds of
the superuniverses.

All conciliators serve under the general supervision of the Ancients of Days
and under the immediate direction of the Image Aids until such time as they are
advanced to Paradise. During the Paradise sojourn they report to the Master
Spirit who presides over the superuniverse of their origin.

The superuniverse registries do not enumerate those conciliators who have
passed beyond their jurisdiction, and such commissions are widely scattered
through the grand universe. The last report of registry on Uversa gives the
number operating in Orvonton as almost eighteen trillion commissions--over
seventy trillion individuals. But these are only a very small fraction of the
multitude of conciliators that have been created in Orvonton; that number is of
an altogether higher magnitude and is the equivalent of the total number of
Havona Servitals, with allowances for the transmutation into Graduate Guides.

From time to time, as the numbers of the superuniverse conciliators increase,
they are translated to the council of perfection on Paradise, from which

                                top of page - 279

they subsequently emerge as the co-ordinating corps evolved by the Infinite
Spirit for the universe of universes, a marvelous group of beings which is
constantly increasing in numbers and efficiency. By experiential ascent and
Paradise training they have acquired a unique grasp of the emerging reality of
the Supreme Being, and they roam the universe of universes on special
assignment.

The members of a conciliating commission are never separated. A group of four
forever serve together just as they were originally associated. Even in their
glorified service they continue to function as quartets of accumulated cosmic
experience and perfected experiential wisdom. They are eternally associated as
the embodiment of the supreme justice of time and space.

4. TECHNICAL ADVISERS

These legal and technical minds of the spirit world were not created as such.
From the early supernaphim and omniaphim, one million of the most orderly minds
were chosen by the Infinite Spirit as the nucleus of this vast and versatile
group. And ever since that far-distant time, actual experience in the
application of the laws of perfection to the plans of evolutionary creation has
been required of all who aspire to become Technical Advisers.

The Technical Advisers are recruited from the ranks of the following
personality orders:

1. The Supernaphim.

2. The Seconaphim.

3. The Tertiaphim.

4. The Omniaphim.

5. The Seraphim.

6. Certain Types of Ascending Mortals.

7. Certain Types of Ascending Midwayers.

At the present time, not counting the mortals and midwayers who are all of
transient attachment, the number of Technical Advisers registered on Uversa and
operating in Orvonton is slightly in excess of sixty-one trillion.

Technical Advisers frequently function as individuals but are organized for
service and maintain common headquarters on the spheres of assignment in groups
of seven. In each group at least five must be of permanent status, while two
may be of temporary association. Ascending mortals and ascending midway
creatures serve on these advisory commissions while pursuing the Paradise
ascent, but they do not enter the regular courses of training for Technical
Advisers, nor do they ever become permanent members of the order.

Those mortals and midwayers who serve transiently with the advisers are chosen
for such work because of their expertness in the concept of universal law and
supreme justice. As you journey toward your Paradise goal, constantly acquiring
added knowledge and enhanced skill, you are continuously afforded the
opportunity to give out to others the wisdom and experience you have already
accumulated; all the way in to Havona you enact the role of a pupil-teacher.
You will work your way through the ascending levels of this vast experiential
university by imparting to those just below you the new-found knowledge of your
advancing career. In the universal regime you are not reckoned as having

                                top of page - 280

possessed yourself of knowledge and truth until you have demonstrated your
ability and your willingness to impart this knowledge and truth to others.

After long training and actual experience, any of the ministering spirits above
the status of cherubim are permitted to receive permanent appointment as
Technical Advisers. All candidates voluntarily enter this order of service; but
having once assumed such responsibilities, they may not relinquish them. Only
the Ancients of Days can transfer these advisers to other activities.

The training of Technical Advisers, begun in the Melchizedek colleges of the
local universes, continues to the courts of the Ancients of Days. From this
superuniverse training they proceed to the "schools of the seven circles"
located on the pilot worlds of the Havona circuits. And from the pilot worlds
they are received into the "college of the ethics of law and the technique of
Supremacy," the Paradise training school for the perfecting of Technical
Advisers.

These advisers are more than legal experts; they are students and teachers of
applied law, the laws of the universe applied to the lives and destinies of all
who inhabit the vast domains of the far-flung creation. As time passes, they
become the living law libraries of time and space, preventing endless trouble
and needless delays by instructing the personalities of time regarding the
forms and modes of procedure most acceptable to the rulers of eternity. They
are able so to counsel the workers of space as to enable them to function in
harmony with the requirements of Paradise; they are the teachers of all
creatures concerning the technique of the Creators.

Such a living library of applied law could not be created; such beings must be
evolved by actual experience. The infinite Deities are existential, hence are
compensated for lack of experience; they know all even before they experience
all, but they do not impart this nonexperiential knowledge to their subordinate
creatures.

Technical Advisers are dedicated to the work of preventing delay, facilitating
progress, and counseling achievement. There is always a best and right way to
do things; there is always the technique of perfection, a divine method, and
these advisers know how to direct us all in the finding of this better way.

These exceedingly wise and practical beings are always closely associated with
the service and work of the Universal Censors. The Melchizedeks are provided
with an able corps. The rulers of the systems, constellations, universes, and
superuniverse sectors are all bountifully supplied with these technical or
legal reference minds of the spiritual world. A special group act as law
counselors to the Life Carriers, advising these Sons concerning the extent of
permissible departure from the established order of life propagation and
otherwise instructing them respecting their prerogatives and latitudes of
function. They are the advisers of all classes of beings regarding the proper
usages and techniques of all spirit-world transactions. But they do not
directly and personally deal with the material creatures of the realms.

Besides counseling regarding legal usages, Technical Advisers are equally
devoted to the efficient interpretation of all laws concerning creature
beings--physical, mindal, and spiritual. They are available to the Universal
Conciliators and to all others who desire to know the truth of law; in other
words, to know how the Supremacy of Deity may be depended upon to react in a
given situation having factors of an established physical, mindal, and
spiritual order. They even essay to elucidate the technique of the Ultimate.

                                top of page - 281

Technical Advisers are selected and tested beings; I have never known one of
them to go astray. We have no records on Uversa of their ever having been
adjudged in contempt of the divine laws they so effectively interpret and so
eloquently expound. There is no known limit to the domain of their service,
neither has any been placed upon their progress. They continue as advisers even
to the portals of Paradise; the whole universe of law and experience is open to
them.

5. THE CUSTODIANS OF RECORDS ON PARADISE

From among the tertiary supernaphim in Havona, certain of the senior chief
recorders are chosen as Custodians of Records, as keepers of the formal
archives of the Isle of Light, those archives which stand in contrast to the
living records of registry in the minds of the custodians of knowledge,
sometimes designated the "living library of Paradise."

The recording angels of the inhabited planets are the source of all individual
records. Throughout the universes other recorders function regarding both
formal records and living records. From Urantia to Paradise, both recordings
are encountered: in a local universe, more of the written records and less of
the living; on Paradise, more of the living and less of the formal; on Uversa,
both are equally available.

Every occurrence of significance in the organized and inhabited creation is a
matter of record. While events of no more than local importance find only a
local recording, those of wider significance are dealt with accordingly. From
the planets, systems, and constellations of Nebadon, everything of universe
import is posted on Salvington; and from such universe capitals those episodes
are advanced to higher recording which pertain to the affairs of the sector and
supergovernments. Paradise also has a relevant summary of superuniverse and
Havona data; and this historic and cumulative story of the universe of
universes is in the custody of these exalted tertiary supernaphim.

While certain of these beings have been dispatched to the superuniverses to
serve as Chiefs of Records directing the activities of the Celestial Recorders,
not one has ever been transferred from the permanent roll call of their order.

6. THE CELESTIAL RECORDERS

These are the recorders who execute all records in duplicate, making an
original spirit recording and a semimaterial counterpart--what might be called
a carbon copy. This they can do because of their peculiar ability
simultaneously to manipulate both spiritual and material energy. Celestial
Recorders are not created as such; they are ascendant seraphim from the local
universes. They are received, classified, and assigned to their spheres of work
by the councils of the Chiefs of Records on the headquarters of the seven
superuniverses. There also are located the schools for training Celestial
Recorders. The school on Uversa is conducted by the Perfectors of Wisdom and
the Divine Counselors.

As the recorders advance in universe service, they continue their system of
dual recording, thus making their records always available to all classes of
beings, from those of the material order to the high spirits of light. In your
transition experience, as you ascend from this material world, you will always
be able

                                top of page - 282

to consult the records of, and to be otherwise conversant with, the history and
traditions of your status sphere.

The recorders are a tested and tried corps. Never have I known of the defection
of a Celestial Recorder, and never has there been discovered a falsification in
their records. They are subjected to a dual inspection, their records being
scrutinized by their exalted fellows from Uversa and by the Mighty Messengers,
who certify to the correctness of the quasi-physical duplicates of the original
spirit records.

While the advancing recorders stationed on the subordinate spheres of record in
the Orvonton universes number trillions upon trillions, those of attained
status on Uversa are not quite eight million in number. These senior or
graduate recorders are the superuniverse custodians and forwarders of the
sponsored records of time and space. Their permanent headquarters are in the
circular abodes surrounding the area of records on Uversa. They never leave the
custody of these records to others; as individuals they may be absent, but
never in large numbers.

Like those supernaphim who have become Custodians of Records, the corps of
Celestial Recorders is of permanent assignment. Once seraphim and supernaphim
are mustered into these services, they will respectively remain Celestial
Recorders and Custodians of Records until the day of the new and modified
administration of the full personalization of God the Supreme.

On Uversa these senior Celestial Recorders can show the records of everything
of cosmic import in all Orvonton since the far-distant times of the arrival of
the Ancients of Days, while on the eternal Isle the Custodians of Records guard
the archives of that realm which testify to the transactions of Paradise since
the times of the personification of the Infinite Spirit.

7. THE MORONTIA COMPANIONS

These children of the local universe Mother Spirits are the friends and
associates of all who live the ascending morontia life. They are not
indispensable to an ascender's real work of creature progression, neither do
they in any sense displace the work of the seraphic guardians who often
accompany their mortal associates on the Paradise journey. The Morontia
Companions are simply gracious hosts to those who are just beginning the long
inward ascent. They are also skillful play sponsors and are ably assisted in
this work by the reversion directors.

Though you will have earnest and progressively difficult tasks to perform on
the morontia training worlds of Nebadon, you will always be provided with
regular seasons of rest and reversion. Throughout the journey to Paradise there
will always be time for rest and spirit play; and in the career of light and
life there is always time for worship and new achievement.

These Morontia Companions are such friendly associates that, when you finally
leave the last phase of the morontia experience, as you prepare to embark upon
the superuniverse spirit adventure, you will truly regret that these
companionable creatures cannot accompany you, but they serve exclusively in the
local universes. At every stage of the ascending career all contactable
personalities will be friendly and companionable, but not until you meet the
Paradise Companions will you find another group so devoted to friendship and
companionship.

                                top of page - 283

The work of the Morontia Companions is more fully depicted in those narratives
dealing with the affairs of your local universe.

8. THE PARADISE COMPANIONS

The Paradise Companions are a composite or assembled group recruited from the
ranks of the seraphim, seconaphim, supernaphim, and omniaphim. Though serving
for what you would regard as an extraordinary length of time, they are not of
permanent status. When this ministry has been completed, as a rule (but not
invariably) they return to those duties they performed when summoned to
Paradise service.

Members of the angelic hosts are nominated for this service by the local
universe Mother Spirits, by the superuniverse Reflective Spirits, and by
Majeston of Paradise. They are summoned to the central Isle and are
commissioned as Paradise Companions by one of the Seven Master Spirits. Aside
from permanent status on Paradise, this temporary service of Paradise
companionship is the highest honor ever conferred upon the ministering spirits.

These selected angels are dedicated to the service of companionship and are
assigned as associates to all classes of beings who may chance to be alone on
Paradise, chiefly to the ascendant mortals but also to all others who are alone
on the central Isle. Paradise Companions have nothing especial to accomplish in
behalf of those with whom they fraternize; they are simply companions. Almost
every other being you mortals will encounter during your Paradise
sojourn--aside from your fellow pilgrims--will have something definite to do
with you or for you; but these companions are assigned only to be with you and
to commune with you as personality associates. They are often assisted in their
ministry by the gracious and brilliant Paradise Citizens.

Mortals come from races that are very social. The Creators well know that it is
"not good for man to be alone," and provision is accordingly made for
companionship, even on Paradise.

If you, as an ascendant mortal, should reach Paradise in the company of the
companion or close associate of your earthly career, or if your seraphic
guardian of destiny should chance to arrive with you or were waiting for you,
then no permanent companion would be assigned you. But if you arrive alone, a
companion will certainly welcome you as you awaken on the Isle of Light from
the terminal sleep of time. Even if it is known that you will be accompanied by
someone of ascendant association, temporary companions will be designated to
welcome you to the eternal shores and to escort you to the reservation made
ready for the reception of you and your associates. You may be certain of being
warmly welcomed when you experience the resurrection into eternity on the
everlasting shores of Paradise.

Reception companions are assigned during the terminal days of the ascenders'
sojourn on the last circuit of Havona, and they carefully examine the records
of mortal origin and eventful ascent through the worlds of space and the
circles of Havona. When they greet the mortals of time, they are already well
versed in the careers of these arriving pilgrims and immediately prove to be
sympathetic and intriguing companions.

During your prefinaliter sojourn on Paradise, if for any reason you should be
temporarily separated from your associate of the ascending career--mortal

                                top of page - 284

or seraphic--a Paradise Companion would be forthwith assigned for counsel and
companionship. When once assigned to an ascendant mortal of solitary residence
on Paradise, the companion remains with this person until he either is rejoined
by his ascendant associates or is duly mustered into the Corps of the Finality.

Paradise Companions are assigned in order of waiting except that an ascender is
never placed in the charge of a companion whose nature is unlike his
superuniverse type. If a Urantia mortal were arriving on Paradise today, there
would be assigned to him the first waiting companion either of origin in
Orvonton or otherwise of the nature of the Seventh Master Spirit. Hence the
omniaphim serve not with the ascendant creatures from the seven superuniverses.

Many additional services are performed by the Paradise Companions: If an
ascending mortal should reach the central universe alone and, while traversing
Havona, should fail in some phase of the Deity adventure, in due course he
would be remanded to the universes of time, and forthwith a call would be made
to the reserves of the Paradise Companions. One of this order would be assigned
to follow the defeated pilgrim, to be with him and to comfort and cheer him,
and to remain with him until he returned to the central universe to resume the
Paradise ascent.

If an ascending pilgrim met defeat in the Deity adventure while traversing
Havona in the company of an ascending seraphim, the guardian angel of the
mortal career, she would elect to accompany her mortal associate. These
seraphim always volunteer and are permitted to accompany their long-time mortal
comrades back to the service of time and space.

But not so with two closely associated mortal ascenders: If one attains God
while the other temporarily fails, the successful individual invariably chooses
to go back to the evolutionary creations with the disappointed personality, but
this is not permitted. Instead, a call is made to the reserves of the Paradise
Companions, and one of the volunteers is selected to accompany the disappointed
pilgrim. A volunteer Paradise Citizen then becomes associated with the
successful mortal, who tarries on the central Isle awaiting the Havona return
of the defeated comrade and in the meantime teaches in certain Paradise
schools, presenting the adventurous story of the evolutionary ascent.

[Sponsored by One High in Authority from Uversa.]

                                top of page - 285

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³      Higher      ³    Ministering    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³   Personal...    ³      Spi...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
