          Urantia Book Paper 27 Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 Paper 27 Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

PRIMARY supernaphim are the supernal servants of the Deities on the eternal
Isle of Paradise. Never have they been known to depart from the paths of light
and righteousness. The roll calls are complete; from eternity not one of this
magnificent host has been lost. These high supernaphim are perfect beings,
supreme in perfection, but they are not absonite, neither are they absolute.
Being of the essence of perfection, these children of the Infinite Spirit work
interchangeably and at will in all phases of their manifold duties. They do not
function extensively outside Paradise, though they do participate in the
various millennial gatherings and group reunions of the central universe. They
also go forth as special messengers of the Deities, and in large numbers they
ascend to become Technical Advisers.

Primary supernaphim are also placed in command of the seraphic hosts
ministering on worlds isolated because of rebellion. When a Paradise Son is
bestowed upon such a world, completes his mission, ascends to the Universal
Father, is accepted, and returns as the accredited deliverer of this isolated
world, a primary supernaphim is always designated by the chiefs of assignment
to assume command of the ministering spirits on duty in the newly reclaimed
sphere. Supernaphim in this special service are periodically rotated. On
Urantia the present "chief of seraphim" is the second of this order to be on
duty since the times of the bestowal of Christ Michael.

From eternity the primary supernaphim have served on the Isle of Light and have
gone forth on missions of leadership to the worlds of space, but they have
functioned as now classified only since the arrival on Paradise of the Havona
pilgrims of time. These high angels now minister chiefly in the following seven
orders of service:

1. Conductors of Worship.

2. Masters of Philosophy.

3. Custodians of Knowledge.

4. Directors of Conduct.

5. Interpreters of Ethics.

6. Chiefs of Assignment.

7. Instigators of Rest.

Not until the ascending pilgrims actually attain Paradise residence do they
come under the direct influence of these supernaphim, and then they pass
through a training experience under the direction of these angels in the
reverse order of their naming. That is, you enter upon your Paradise career
under the

                                top of page - 299

tutelage of the instigators of rest and, after successive seasons with the
intervening orders, finish this training period with the conductors of worship.
Thereupon are you ready to begin the endless career of a finaliter.

1. INSTIGATORS OF REST

The instigators of rest are the inspectors of Paradise who go forth from the
central Isle to the inner circuit of Havona, there to collaborate with their
colleagues, the complements of rest of the secondary order of supernaphim. The
one essential to the enjoyment of Paradise is rest, divine rest; and these
instigators of rest are the final instructors who make ready the pilgrims of
time for their introduction to eternity. They begin their work on the final
attainment circle of the central universe and continue it when the pilgrim
awakes from the last transition sleep, the slumber which graduates a creature
of space into the realm of the eternal.

Rest is of a sevenfold nature: There is the rest of sleep and of play in the
lower life orders, discovery in the higher beings, and worship in the highest
type of spirit personality. There is also the normal rest of energy intake, the
recharging of beings with physical or with spiritual energy. And then there is
the transit sleep, the unconscious slumber when enseraphimed, when in passage
from one sphere to another. Entirely different from all of these is the deep
sleep of metamorphosis, the transition rest from one stage of being to another,
from one life to another, from one state of existence to another, the sleep
which ever attends transition from actual universe status in contrast to
evolution through various stages of any one status.

But the last metamorphic sleep is something more than those previous transition
slumbers which have marked the successive status attainments of the ascendant
career; thereby do the creatures of time and space traverse the innermost
margins of the temporal and the spatial to attain residential status in the
timeless and spaceless abodes of Paradise. The instigators and the complements
of rest are just as essential to this transcending metamorphosis as are the
seraphim and associated beings to the mortal creature's survival of death.

You enter the rest on the final Havona circuit and are eternally resurrected on
Paradise. And as you there spiritually repersonalize, you will immediately
recognize the instigator of rest who welcomes you to the eternal shores as the
very primary supernaphim who produced the final sleep on the innermost circuit
of Havona; and you will recall the last grand stretch of faith as you once
again made ready to commend the keeping of your identity into the hands of the
Universal Father.

The last rest of time has been enjoyed; the last transition sleep has been
experienced; now you awake to life everlasting on the shores of the eternal
abode. "And there shall be no more sleep. The presence of God and his Son are
before you, and you are eternally his servants; you have seen his face, and his
name is your spirit. There shall be no night there; and they need no light of
the sun, for the Great Source and Center gives them light; they shall live
forever and ever. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; there
shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any
more pain, for the former things have passed away."

                                top of page - 300

2. CHIEFS OF ASSIGNMENT

This is the group designated from time to time by the chief supernaphim, "the
original pattern angel," to preside over the organization of all three orders
of these angels--primary, secondary, and tertiary. The supernaphim, as a body,
are wholly self-governing and self-regulatory except for the functions of their
mutual chief, the first angel of Paradise, who ever presides over all these
spirit personalities.

The angels of assignment have much to do with glorified mortal residents of
Paradise before they are admitted to the Corps of the Finality. Study and
instruction are not the exclusive occupations of Paradise arrivals; service
also plays its essential part in the prefinaliter educational experiences of
Paradise. And I have observed that, when the ascendant mortals have periods of
leisure, they evince a predilection to fraternize with the reserve corps of the
superaphic chiefs of assignment.

When you mortal ascenders attain Paradise, your societal relationships involve
a great deal more than contact with a host of exalted and divine beings and
with a familiar multitude of glorified fellow mortals. You must also fraternize
with upwards of three thousand different orders of Paradise Citizens, with the
various groups of the Transcendentalers, and with numerous other types of
Paradise inhabitants, permanent and transient, who have not been revealed on
Urantia. After sustained contact with these mighty intellects of Paradise, it
is very restful to visit with the angelic types of mind; they remind the
mortals of time of the seraphim with whom they have had such long contact and
such refreshing association.

3. INTERPRETERS OF ETHICS

The higher you ascend in the scale of life, the more attention must be paid to
universe ethics. Ethical awareness is simply the recognition by any individual
of the rights inherent in the existence of any and all other individuals. But
spiritual ethics far transcends the mortal and even the morontia concept of
personal and group relations.

Ethics has been duly taught and adequately learned by the pilgrims of time in
their long ascent to the glories of Paradise. As this inward-ascending career
has unfolded from the nativity worlds of space, the ascenders have continued to
add group after group to their ever-widening circle of universe associates.
Every new group of colleagues met with adds one more level of ethics to be
recognized and complied with until, by the time the mortals of ascent reach
Paradise, they really need someone to provide helpful and friendly counsel
regarding ethical interpretations. They do not need to be taught ethics, but
they do need to have what they have so laboriously learned properly interpreted
to them as they are brought face to face with the extraordinary task of
contacting with so much that is new.

The interpreters of ethics are of inestimable assistance to the Paradise
arrivals in helping them to adjust to numerous groups of majestic beings during
that eventful period extending from the attainment of residential status to
formal induction into the Corps of Mortal Finaliters. Many of the numerous
types of Paradise Citizens the ascendant pilgrims have already met on the seven

                                top of page - 301

circuits of Havona. The glorified mortals have also enjoyed intimate contact
with the creature-trinitized sons of the conjoint corps on the inner Havona
circuit, where these beings are receiving much of their education. And on the
other circuits the ascending pilgrims have met numerous unrevealed residents of
the Paradise-Havona system who are there pursuing group training in preparation
for the unrevealed assignments of the future.

All these celestial companionships are invariably mutual. As ascending mortals
you not only derive benefit from these successive universe companions and such
numerous orders of increasingly divine associates, but you also impart to each
of these fraternal beings something from your own personality and experience
which forever makes every one of them different and better for having been
associated with an ascending mortal from the evolutionary worlds of time and
space.

4. DIRECTORS OF CONDUCT

Having already been fully instructed in the ethics of Paradise
relationships--neither meaningless formalities nor the dictations of artificial
castes but rather the inherent proprieties--the ascendant mortals find it
helpful to receive the counsel of the superaphic directors of conduct, who
instruct the new members of Paradise society in the usages of the perfect
conduct of the high beings who sojourn on the central Isle of Light and Life.

Harmony is the keynote of the central universe, and detectable order prevails
on Paradise. Proper conduct is essential to progress by way of knowledge,
through philosophy, to the spiritual heights of spontaneous worship. There is a
divine technique in the approach to Divinity; and the acquirement of this
technique must await the pilgrims' arrival on Paradise. The spirit of it has
been imparted on the circles of Havona, but the final touches of the training
of the pilgrims of time can be applied only after they actually attain the Isle
of Light.

All Paradise conduct is wholly spontaneous, in every sense natural and free.
But there still is a proper and perfect way of doing things on the eternal
Isle, and the directors of conduct are ever by the side of the "strangers
within the gates" to instruct them and so guide their steps as to put them at
perfect ease and at the same time to enable the pilgrims to avoid that
confusion and uncertainty which would otherwise be inevitable. Only by such an
arrangement could endless confusion be avoided; and confusion never appears on
Paradise.

These directors of conduct really serve as glorified teachers and guides. They
are chiefly concerned with instructing the new mortal residents regarding the
almost endless array of new situations and unfamiliar usages. Notwithstanding
all the long preparation therefor and the long journey thereto, Paradise is
still inexpressibly strange and unexpectedly new to those who finally attain
residential status.

5. THE CUSTODIANS OF KNOWLEDGE

The superaphic custodians of knowledge are the higher "living epistles" known
and read by all who dwell on Paradise. They are the divine records of truth,
the living books of real knowledge. You have heard about records in the "book
of life." The custodians of knowledge are just such living books, records of
perfection imprinted upon the eternal tablets of divine life and supreme

                                top of page - 302

surety. They are in reality living, automatic libraries. The facts of the
universes are inherent in these primary supernaphim, actually recorded in these
angels; and it is also inherently impossible for an untruth to gain lodgment in
the minds of these perfect and replete repositories of the truth of eternity
and the intelligence of time.

These custodians conduct informal courses of instruction for the residents of
the eternal Isle, but their chief function is that of reference and
verification. Any sojourner on Paradise may at will have by his side the living
repository of the particular fact or truth he may wish to know. At the northern
extremity of the Isle there are available the living finders of knowledge, who
will designate the director of the group holding the information sought, and
forthwith will appear the brilliant beings who are the very thing you wish to
know. No longer must you seek enlightenment from engrossed pages; you now
commune with living intelligence face to face. Supreme knowledge you thus
obtain from the living beings who are its final custodians.

When you locate that supernaphim who is exactly what you desire to verify, you
will find available all the known facts of all universes, for these custodians
of knowledge are the final and living summaries of the vast network of the
recording angels, ranging from the seraphim and seconaphim of the local and
superuniverses to the chief recorders of the tertiary supernaphim in Havona.
And this living accumulation of knowledge is distinct from the formal records
of Paradise, the cumulative summary of universal history.

The wisdom of truth takes origin in the divinity of the central universe, but
knowledge, experiential knowledge, largely has its beginnings in the domains of
time and space--therefore the necessity for the maintenance of the far-flung
superuniverse organizations of the recording seraphim and supernaphim sponsored
by the Celestial Recorders.

These primary supernaphim who are inherently in possession of universe
knowledge are also responsible for its organization and classification. In
constituting themselves the living reference library of the universe of
universes, they have classified knowledge into seven grand orders, each having
about one million subdivisions. The facility with which the residents of
Paradise can consult this vast store of knowledge is solely due to the
voluntary and wise efforts of the custodians of knowledge. The custodians are
also the exalted teachers of the central universe, freely giving out their
living treasures to all beings on any of the Havona circuits, and they are
extensively, though indirectly, utilized by the courts of the Ancients of Days.
But this living library, which is available to the central and superuniverses,
is not accessible to the local creations. Only by indirection and reflectively
are the benefits of Paradise knowledge secured in the local universes.

6. MASTERS OF PHILOSOPHY

Next to the supreme satisfaction of worship is the exhilaration of philosophy.
Never do you climb so high or advance so far that there do not remain a
thousand mysteries which demand the employment of philosophy in an attempted
solution.

The master philosophers of Paradise delight to lead the minds of its
inhabitants, both native and ascendant, in the exhilarating pursuit of
attempting to solve universe problems. These superaphic masters of philosophy
are the "wise

                                top of page - 303

men of heaven," the beings of wisdom who make use of the truth of knowledge and
the facts of experience in their efforts to master the unknown. With them
knowledge attains to truth and experience ascends to wisdom. On Paradise the
ascendant personalities of space experience the heights of being: They have
knowledge; they know the truth; they may philosophize--think the truth; they
may even seek to encompass the concepts of the Ultimate and attempt to grasp
the techniques of the Absolutes.

At the southern extremity of the vast Paradise domain the masters of philosophy
conduct elaborate courses in the seventy functional divisions of wisdom. Here
they discourse upon the plans and purposes of Infinity and seek to co-ordinate
the experiences, and to compose the knowledge, of all who have access to their
wisdom. They have developed a highly specialized attitude toward various
universe problems, but their final conclusions are always in uniform agreement.

These Paradise philosophers teach by every possible method of instruction,
including the higher graph technique of Havona and certain Paradise methods of
communicating information. All of these higher techniques of imparting
knowledge and conveying ideas are utterly beyond the comprehension capacity of
even the most highly developed human mind. One hour's instruction on Paradise
would be the equivalent of ten thousand years of the word-memory methods of
Urantia. You cannot grasp such communication techniques, and there is simply
nothing in mortal experience with which they may be compared, nothing to which
they can be likened.

The masters of philosophy take supreme pleasure in imparting their
interpretation of the universe of universes to those beings who have ascended
from the worlds of space. And while philosophy can never be as settled in its
conclusions as the facts of knowledge and the truths of experience, yet, when
you have listened to these primary supernaphim discourse upon the unsolved
problems of eternity and the performances of the Absolutes, you will feel a
certain and lasting satisfaction concerning these unmastered questions.

These intellectual pursuits of Paradise are not broadcast; the philosophy of
perfection is available only to those who are personally present. The
encircling creations know of these teachings only from those who have passed
through this experience, and who have subsequently carried this wisdom out to
the universes of space.

7. CONDUCTORS OF WORSHIP

Worship is the highest privilege and the first duty of all created
intelligences. Worship is the conscious and joyous act of recognizing and
acknowledging the truth and fact of the intimate and personal relationships of
the Creators with their creatures. The quality of worship is determined by the
depth of creature perception; and as the knowledge of the infinite character of
the Gods progresses, the act of worship becomes increasingly all-encompassing
until it eventually attains the glory of the highest experiential delight and
the most exquisite pleasure known to created beings.

While the Isle of Paradise contains certain places of worship, it is more
nearly one vast sanctuary of divine service. Worship is the first and dominant
passion of all who climb to its blissful shores--the spontaneous ebullition of
the

                                top of page - 304

beings who have learned enough of God to attain his presence. Circle by circle,
during the inward journey through Havona, worship is a growing passion until on
Paradise it becomes necessary to direct and otherwise control its expression.

The periodic, spontaneous, group, and other special outbursts of supreme
adoration and spiritual praise enjoyed on Paradise are conducted under the
leadership of a special corps of primary supernaphim. Under the direction of
these conductors of worship, such homage achieves the creature goal of supreme
pleasure and attains the heights of the perfection of sublime self-expression
and personal enjoyment. All primary supernaphim crave to be conductors of
worship; and all ascendant beings would enjoy forever remaining in the attitude
of worship did not the chiefs of assignment periodically disperse these
assemblages. But no ascendant being is ever required to enter upon the
assignments of eternal service until he has attained full satisfaction in
worship.

It is the task of the conductors of worship so to teach the ascendant creatures
how to worship that they may be enabled to gain this satisfaction of
self-expression and at the same time be able to give attention to the essential
activities of the Paradise regime. Without improvement in the technique of
worship it would require hundreds of years for the average mortal who reaches
Paradise to give full and satisfactory expression to his emotions of
intelligent appreciation and ascendant gratitude. The conductors of worship
open up new and hitherto unknown avenues of expression so that these wonderful
children of the womb of space and the travail of time are enabled to gain the
full satisfactions of worship in much less time.

All the arts of all the beings of the entire universe which are capable of
intensifying and exalting the abilities of self-expression and the conveyance
of appreciation, are employed to their highest capacity in the worship of the
Paradise Deities. Worship is the highest joy of Paradise existence; it is the
refreshing play of Paradise. What play does for your jaded minds on earth,
worship will do for your perfected souls on Paradise. The mode of worship on
Paradise is utterly beyond mortal comprehension, but the spirit of it you can
begin to appreciate even down here on Urantia, for the spirits of the Gods even
now indwell you, hover over you, and inspire you to true worship.

There are appointed times and places for worship on Paradise, but these are not
adequate to accommodate the ever-increasing overflow of the spiritual emotions
of the growing intelligence and expanding divinity recognition of the brilliant
beings of experiential ascension to the eternal Isle. Never since the times of
Grandfanda have the supernaphim been able fully to accommodate the spirit of
worship on Paradise. Always is there an excess of worshipfulness as gauged by
the preparation therefor. And this is because personalities of inherent
perfection never can fully appreciate the tremendous reactions of the spiritual
emotions of beings who have slowly and laboriously made their way upward to
Paradise glory from the depths of the spiritual darkness of the lower worlds of
time and space. When such angels and mortals of time attain the presence of the
Powers of Paradise, there occurs the expression of the accumulated emotions of
the ages, a spectacle astounding to the angels of Paradise and productive of
the supreme joy of divine satisfaction in the Paradise Deities.

Sometimes all Paradise becomes engulfed in a dominating tide of spiritual and
worshipful expression. Often the conductors of worship cannot control such
phenomena until the appearance of the threefold fluctuation of the light of the

                                top of page - 305

Deity abode, signifying that the divine heart of the Gods has been fully and
completely satisfied by the sincere worship of the residents of Paradise, the
perfect citizens of glory and the ascendant creatures of time. What a triumph
of technique! What a fruition of the eternal plan and purpose of the Gods that
the intelligent love of the creature child should give full satisfaction to the
infinite love of the Creator Father!

After the attainment of the supreme satisfaction of the fullness of worship,
you are qualified for admission to the Corps of the Finality. The ascendant
career is well-nigh finished, and the seventh jubilee prepares for celebration.
The first jubilee marked the mortal agreement with the Thought Adjuster when
the purpose to survive was sealed; the second was the awakening in the morontia
life; the third was the fusion with the Thought Adjuster; the fourth was the
awakening in Havona; the fifth celebrated the finding of the Universal Father;
and the sixth jubilee was the occasion of the Paradise awakening from the final
transit slumber of time. The seventh jubilee marks entrance into the mortal
finaliter corps and the beginning of the eternity service. The attainment of
the seventh stage of spirit realization by a finaliter will probably signalize
the celebration of the first of the jubilees of eternity.

And thus ends the story of the Paradise supernaphim, the highest order of all
the ministering spirits, those beings who, as a universal class, ever attend
you from the world of your origin until you are finally bidden farewell by the
conductors of worship as you take the Trinity oath of eternity and are mustered
into the Mortal Corps of the Finality.

The endless service of the Paradise Trinity is about to begin; and now the
finaliter is face to face with the challenge of God the Ultimate.

[Presented by a Perfector of Wisdom from Uversa.]

                                top of page - 306

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   Ministering    ³    Ministering    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Spi...      ³      Spi...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
