        Urantia Book Paper 28 Ministering Spirits Of The SuperUniverses
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Paper 28 Ministering Spirits Of The SuperUniverses

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

AS THE supernaphim are the angelic hosts of the central universe and the
seraphim of the local universes, so are the seconaphim the ministering spirits
of the superuniverses. In degree of divinity and in potential of supremacy,
however, these children of the Reflective Spirits are much more like
supernaphim than seraphim. They serve not alone in the supercreations, and both
numerous and intriguing are the transactions sponsored by their unrevealed
associates.

As presented in these narratives, the ministering spirits of the superuniverses
embrace the following three orders:

1. The Seconaphim.

2. The Tertiaphim.

3. The Omniaphim.

Since the latter two orders are not so directly concerned with the ascendant
scheme of mortal progression, they will be briefly discussed prior to the more
extended consideration of seconaphim. Technically, neither tertiaphim nor
omniaphim are ministering spirits of the superuniverses, though both serve as
spirit ministers in these domains.

1. THE TERTIAPHIM

These high angels are of record on the superuniverse headquarters, and despite
service in the local creations, technically they are residents of these
superuniverse capitals inasmuch as they are not native to the local universes.
Tertiaphim are children of the Infinite Spirit and are personalized on Paradise
in groups of one thousand. These supernal beings of divine originality and
near-supreme versatility are the gift of the Infinite Spirit to the Creator
Sons of God.

When a Michael Son is detached from the parental regime of Paradise and is made
ready to go forth on the universe adventure of space, the Infinite Spirit is
delivered of a group of one thousand of these companion spirits. And these
majestic tertiaphim accompany this Creator Son when he embarks upon the
adventure of universe organization.

Throughout the early times of universe building, these one thousand tertiaphim
are the only personal staff of a Creator Son. They acquire a mighty experience
as Son assistants during these stirring ages of universe assembling and other
astronomical manipulations. They serve by the side of the Creator Son until the
day of the personalization of the Bright and Morning Star, the first-

                                top of page - 307

born of a local universe. Thereupon the formal resignations of the tertiaphim
are tendered and accepted. And with the appearance of the initial orders of
native angelic life, they retire from active service in the local universe and
become the liaison ministers between the Creator Son of former attachment and
the Ancients of Days of the superuniverse concerned.

2. THE OMNIAPHIM

Omniaphim are created by the Infinite Spirit in liaison with the Seven Supreme
Executives, and they are the exclusive servants and messengers of these same
Supreme Executives. Omniaphim are of grand universe assignment, and in Orvonton
their corps maintains headquarters in the northerly parts of Uversa, where they
reside as a special courtesy colony. They are not of registry on Uversa, nor
are they attached to our administration. Neither are they directly concerned
with the ascendant scheme of mortal progression.

The omniaphim are wholly occupied with the oversight of the superuniverses in
the interests of administrative co-ordination from the viewpoint of the Seven
Supreme Executives. Our colony of omniaphim on Uversa receives instructions
from, and makes reports to, only the Supreme Executive of Orvonton, situated on
conjoint executive sphere number seven in the outer ring of Paradise
satellites.

3. THE SECONAPHIM

The secoraphic hosts are produced by the seven Reflective Spirits assigned to
the headquarters of each superuniverse. There is a definite Paradise-responsive
technique associated with the creation of these angels in groups of seven. In
each seven there are always one primary, three secondary, and three tertiary
seconaphim; they always personalize in this exact proportion. When seven such
seconaphim are created, one, the primary, becomes attached to the service of
the Ancients of Days. The three secondary angels are associated with three
groups of Paradise-origin administrators in the supergovernments: the Divine
Counselors, the Perfectors of Wisdom, and the Universal Censors. The three
tertiary angels are attached to the ascendant trinitized associates of the
superuniverse rulers: the Mighty Messengers, Those High in Authority, and Those
without Name and Number.

These seconaphim of the superuniverses are the offspring of the Reflective
Spirits, and therefore reflectivity is inherent in their nature. They are
reflectively responsive to all of each phase of every creature of origin in the
Third Source and Center and the Paradise Creator Sons, but they are not
directly reflective of the beings and entities, personal or otherwise, of sole
origin in the First Source and Center. We possess many evidences of the
actuality of the universal intelligence circuits of the Infinite Spirit, but
even if we had no other proof, the reflective performances of the seconaphim
would be quite sufficient to demonstrate the reality of the universal presence
of the infinite mind of the Conjoint Actor.

4. THE PRIMARY SECONAPHIM

The primary seconaphim, of assignment to the Ancients of Days, are living
mirrors in the service of these triune rulers. Think what it means in the
economy

                                top of page - 308

of a superuniverse to be able to turn, as it were, to a living mirror and
therein to see and therewith to hear the certain responses of another being a
thousand or a hundred thousand light-years distant and to do all this instantly
and unerringly. Records are essential to the conduct of the universes,
broadcasts are serviceable, the work of the Solitary and other messengers is
very helpful, but the Ancients of Days from their position midway between the
inhabited worlds and Paradise--between man and God--can instantly look both
ways, hear both ways, and know both ways.

This ability--to hear and see, as it were, all things--can be perfectly
realized in the superuniverses only by the Ancients of Days and only on their
respective headquarters worlds. Even there limits are encountered: From Uversa,
such communication is limited to the worlds and universes of Orvonton, and
while inoperative between the superuniverses, this same reflective technique
keeps each one of them in close touch with the central universe and with
Paradise. The seven supergovernments, though individually segregated, are thus
perfectly reflective of the authority above and are wholly sympathetic, as well
as perfectly conversant, with the needs below.

The primary seconaphim are found to incline by inherent nature towards seven
types of service, and it is befitting that the first serials of this order
should be so endowed as inherently to interpret the mind of the Spirit to the
Ancients of Days:

1. The Voice of the Conjoint Actor. In each superuniverse the first primary
seconaphim and every seventh one of that order subsequently created exhibit a
high order of adaptability for understanding and interpreting the mind of the
Infinite Spirit to the Ancients of Days and their associates in the
supergovernments. This is of great value on the headquarters of the
superuniverses, for, unlike the local creations with their Divine Ministers,
the seat of a supergovernment does not have a specialized personalization of
the Infinite Spirit. Hence these secoraphic voices come the nearest to being
the personal representatives of the Third Source and Center on such a capital
sphere. True, the seven Reflective Spirits are there, but these mothers of the
secoraphic hosts are less truly and automatically reflective of the Conjoint
Actor than of the Seven Master Spirits.

2. The Voice of the Seven Master Spirits. The second primary seconaphim and
every seventh one thereafter created incline towards portraying the collective
natures and reactions of the Seven Master Spirits. Though each Master Spirit is
already represented on a superuniverse capital by some one of the seven
Reflective Spirits of assignment, such representation is individual, not
collective. Collectively, they are only reflectively present; therefore do the
Master Spirits welcome the services of these highly personal angels, the second
serials of the primary seconaphim, who are so competent to represent them
before the Ancients of Days.

3. The Voice of the Creator Sons. The Infinite Spirit must have had something
to do with the creation or training of the Paradise Sons of the order of
Michael, for the third primary seconaphim and every seventh serial thereafter
possess the remarkable gift of being reflective of the minds of these Creator
Sons. If the Ancients of Days would like to know--really know--the attitude of
Michael of Nebadon regarding some matter under consideration, they do not have
to call him on the lines of space; they need only call for the Chief of Neba-

                                top of page - 309

don Voices, who, upon request, will present the Michael seconaphim of record;
and right then and there the Ancients of Days will perceive the voice of the
Master Son of Nebadon.

No other order of sonship is thus "reflectible," and no other order of angel
can thus function. We do not fully understand just how this is accomplished,
and I doubt very much that the Creator Sons themselves fully understand it. But
of a certainty we know it works, and that it unfailingly works acceptably we
also know, for in all the history of Uversa the secoraphic voices have never
erred in their presentations.

You are here beginning to see something of the manner in which divinity
encompasses the space of time and masters the time of space. You are here
obtaining one of your first fleeting glimpses of the technique of the eternity
cycle, divergent for the moment to assist the children of time in their tasks
of mastering the difficult handicaps of space. And these phenomena are
additional to the established universe technique of the Reflective Spirits.

Though apparently deprived of the personal presence of the Master Spirits above
and of the Creator Sons below, the Ancients of Days have at their command
living beings attuned to cosmic mechanisms of reflective perfection and
ultimate precision whereby they may enjoy the reflective presence of all those
exalted beings whose personal presence is denied them. By and through these
means, and others unknown to you, God is potentially present on the
headquarters of the superuniverses.

The Ancients of Days perfectly deduce the Father's will by equating the Spirit
voice-flash from above and the Michael voice-flashes from below. Thus may they
be unerringly certain in calculating the Father's will concerning the
administrative affairs of the local universes. But to deduce the will of one of
the Gods from a knowledge of the other two, the three Ancients of Days must act
together; two would not be able to achieve the answer. And for this reason,
even were there no others, the superuniverses are always presided over by three
Ancients of Days, and not by one or even two.

4. The Voice of the Angelic Hosts. The fourth primary seconaphim and every
seventh serial prove to be angels peculiarly responsive to the sentiments of
all orders of angels, including the supernaphim above and the seraphim below.
Thus the attitude of any commanding or supervising angel is immediately
available for consideration at any council of the Ancients of Days. Never a day
passes on your world that the chief of seraphim on Urantia is not made
conscious of the phenomenon of reflective transference, of being drawn upon
from Uversa for some purpose; but unless forewarned by a Solitary Messenger,
she remains wholly ignorant of what is sought and of how it is secured. These
ministering spirits of time are constantly furnishing this sort of unconscious
and certainly, therefore, unprejudiced testimony concerning the endless array
of matters engaging the attention and counsel of the Ancients of Days and their
associates.

5. Broadcast Receivers. There is a special class of broadcast messages which
are received only by these primary seconaphim. While they are not the regular
broadcasters of Uversa, they work in liaison with the angels of the reflective
voices for the purpose of synchronizing the reflective vision of the Ancients
of Days with certain actual messages coming in over the established circuits of
universe communication. Broadcast receivers are the fifth serials, the fifth
primary seconaphim to be created and every seventh one thereafter.

                                top of page - 310

6. Transport Personalities. These are the seconaphim who carry the pilgrims of
time from the headquarters worlds of the superuniverses to the outer circle of
Havona. They are the transport corps of the superuniverses, operating inward to
Paradise and outward to the worlds of their respective sectors. This corps is
composed of the sixth primary seconaphim and every seventh one subsequently
created.

7. The Reserve Corps. A very large group of seconaphim, the seventh primary
serials, are held in reserve for the unclassified duties and the emergency
assignments of the realms. Not being highly specialized, they can function
fairly well in any of the capacities of their diverse associates, but such
specialized work is undertaken only in emergencies. Their usual tasks are the
performance of those generalized duties of a superuniverse which do not fall
within the scope of the angels of specific assignment.

5. THE SECONDARY SECONAPHIM

Seconaphim of the secondary order are no less reflective than their primary
fellows. Being classed as primary, secondary, and tertiary does not indicate a
differential of status or function in the case of seconaphim; it merely denotes
orders of procedure. Identical qualities are exhibited by all three groups in
their activities.

The seven reflective types of secondary seconaphim are assigned to the services
of the co-ordinate Trinity-origin associates of the Ancients of Days as
follows:

To the Perfectors of Wisdom--the Voices of Wisdom, the Souls of Philosophy, and
the Unions of Souls.

To the Divine Counselors--the Hearts of Counsel, the Joys of Existence, and the
Satisfactions of Service.

To the Universal Censors--the Discerners of Spirits.

Like the primary order, this group is created serially; that is, the first-born
was a Voice of Wisdom, and the seventh thereafter was similar, and so with the
six other types of these reflective angels.

1. The Voice of Wisdom. Certain of these seconaphim are in perpetual liaison
with the living libraries of Paradise, the custodians of knowledge belonging to
the primary supernaphim. In specialized reflective service the Voices of Wisdom
are living, current, replete, and thoroughly reliable concentrations and
focalizations of the co-ordinated wisdom of the universe of universes. To the
well-nigh infinite volume of information circulating on the master circuits of
the superuniverses, these superb beings are so reflective and selective, so
sensitive, as to be able to segregate and receive the essence of wisdom and
unerringly to transmit these jewels of mentation to their superiors, the
Perfectors of Wisdom. And they so function that the Perfectors of Wisdom not
only hear the actual and original expressions of this wisdom but also
reflectively see the very beings, of high or lowly origin, who gave voice to
it.

It is written, "If any man lack wisdom, let him ask." On Uversa, when it
becomes necessary to arrive at the decisions of wisdom in the perplexing
situations of the complex affairs of the superuniverse government, when both
the wisdom of perfection and of practicability must be forthcoming, then do the
Perfectors

                                top of page - 311

of Wisdom summon a battery of the Voices of Wisdom and, by the consummate skill
of their order, so attune and directionize these living receivers of the
enminded and circulating wisdom of the universe of universes that presently,
from these secoraphic voices, there ensues a stream of the wisdom of divinity
from the universe above and a flood of the wisdom of practicality from the
higher minds of the universes below.

If confusion arises regarding the harmonization of these two versions of
wisdom, immediate appeal is made to the Divine Counselors, who forthwith rule
as to the proper combination of procedures. If there is any doubt as to the
authenticity of something coming in from realms where rebellion has been rife,
appeal is made to the Censors, who, with their Discerners of Spirits, are able
to rule immediately as to "what manner of spirit" actuated the adviser. So are
the wisdom of the ages and the intellect of the moment ever present with the
Ancients of Days, like an open book before their beneficent gaze.

You can just faintly comprehend what all this means to those who are
responsible for the conduct of the superuniverse governments. The immensity and
the comprehensiveness of these transactions are quite beyond finite conception.
When you stand, as I repeatedly have, in the special receiving chambers of the
temple of wisdom on Uversa and see all this in actual operation, you will be
moved to adoration by the perfection of the complexity, and by the surety of
the working, of the interplanetary communications of the universes. You will
pay homage to the divine wisdom and goodness of the Gods, who plan and execute
with such superb technique. And these things actually happen just as I have
portrayed them.

2. The Soul of Philosophy. These wonderful teachers are also attached to the
Perfectors of Wisdom and, when not otherwise directionized, remain in focal
synchrony with the masters of philosophy on Paradise. Think of stepping up to a
huge living mirror, as it were, but instead of beholding the likeness of your
finite and material self, of perceiving a reflection of the wisdom of divinity
and the philosophy of Paradise. And if it becomes desirable to "incarnate" this
philosophy of perfection, so to dilute it as to make it practical of
application to, and assimilation by, the lowly peoples of the lower worlds,
these living mirrors have only to turn their faces downward to reflect the
standards and needs of another world or universe.

By these very techniques do the Perfectors of Wisdom adapt decisions and
recommendations to the real needs and actual status of the peoples and worlds
under consideration, and always do they act in concert with the Divine
Counselors and the Universal Censors. But the sublime repleteness of these
transactions is beyond even my ability to comprehend.

3. The Union of Souls. Completing the triune staff of attachment to the
Perfectors of Wisdom, are these reflectors of the ideals and status of ethical
relationships. Of all the problems in the universe requiring an exercise of the
consummate wisdom of experience and adaptability, none are more important than
those arising out of the relationships and associations of intelligent beings.
Whether in human associations of commerce and trade, friendship and marriage,
or in the liaisons of the angelic hosts, there continue to arise petty
frictions, minor misunderstandings too trivial even to engage the attention of
conciliators but sufficiently irritating and disturbing to mar the smooth
working of the universe if they were allowed to multiply and continue.

                                top of page - 312

Therefore do the Perfectors of Wisdom make available the wise experience of
their order as the "oil of reconciliation" for an entire superuniverse. In all
this work these wise men of the superuniverses are ably seconded by their
reflective associates, the Unions of Souls, who make available current
information regarding the status of the universe and concurrently portray the
Paradise ideal of the best adjustment of these perplexing problems. When not
specifically directionized elsewhere, these seconaphim remain in reflective
liaison with the interpreters of ethics on Paradise.

These are the angels who foster and promote the teamwork of all Orvonton. One
of the most important lessons to be learned during your mortal career is
teamwork. The spheres of perfection are manned by those who have mastered this
art of working with other beings. Few are the duties in the universe for the
lone servant. The higher you ascend, the more lonely you become when
temporarily without the association of your fellows.

4. The Heart of Counsel. This is the first group of these reflective geniuses
to be placed under the supervision of the Divine Counselors. Seconaphim of this
type are in possession of the facts of space, being selective for such data in
the circuits of time. Especially are they reflective of the superaphic
intelligence co-ordinators, but they are also selectively reflective of the
counsel of all beings, whether of high or low estate. Whenever the Divine
Counselors are called upon for important advice or decisions, they immediately
requisition an ensemble of the Hearts of Counsel, and presently there is handed
down a ruling which actually incorporates the co-ordinated wisdom and advice of
the most competent minds of the entire superuniverse, all of which has been
censored and revised in the light of the counsel of the high minds of Havona
and even of Paradise.

5. The Joy of Existence. By nature these beings are reflectively attuned to the
superaphic harmony supervisors above and to certain of the seraphim below, but
it is difficult to explain just what the members of this interesting group
really do. Their principal activities are directed toward promoting reactions
of joy among the various orders of the angelic hosts and the lower will
creatures. The Divine Counselors, to whom they are attached, seldom use them
for specific joy finding. In a more general manner and in collaboration with
the reversion directors, they function as joy clearinghouses, seeking to upstep
the pleasure reactions of the realms while trying to improve the humor taste,
to develop a superhumor among mortals and angels. They endeavor to demonstrate
that there is inherent joy in freewill existence, independent of all extraneous
influences; and they are right, although they meet with great difficulty in
inculcating this truth in the minds of primitive men. The higher spirit
personalities and the angels are more quickly responsive to these educational
efforts.

6. The Satisfaction of Service. These angels are highly reflective of the
attitude of the directors of conduct on Paradise, and functioning much as do
the Joys of Existence, they strive to enhance the value of service and to
augment the satisfactions to be derived therefrom. They have done much to
illuminate the deferred rewards inherent in unselfish service, service for the
extension of the kingdom of truth.

The Divine Counselors, to whom this order is attached, utilize them to reflect
from one world to another the benefits to be derived from spiritual service.

                                top of page - 313

And by using the performances of the best to inspire and encourage the
mediocre, these seconaphim contribute immensely to the quality of devoted
service in the superuniverses. Effective use is made of the fraternal
competitive spirit by circulating to any one world information about what the
others, particularly the best, are doing. A refreshing and wholesome rivalry is
promoted even among the seraphic hosts.

7. The Discerner of Spirits. A special liaison exists between the counselors
and advisers of the second Havona circle and these reflective angels. They are
the only seconaphim attached to the Universal Censors but are probably the most
uniquely specialized of all their fellows. Regardless of the source or channel
of information, no matter how meager the evidence at hand, when it is subjected
to their reflective scrutiny, these discerners will forthwith inform us as to
the true motive, the actual purpose, and the real nature of its origin. I
marvel at the superb functioning of these angels, who so unerringly reflect the
actual moral and spiritual character of any individual concerned in a focal
exposure.

The Discerners of Spirits carry on these intricate services by virtue of
inherent "spiritual insight," if I may use such words in an endeavor to convey
to the human mind the thought that these reflective angels thus function
intuitively, inherently, and unerringly. When the Universal Censors behold
these presentations, they are face to face with the naked soul of the reflected
individual; and this very certainty and perfection of portraiture in part
explains why the Censors can always function so justly as righteous judges. The
discerners always accompany the Censors on any mission away from Uversa, and
they are just as effective out in the universes as at their Uversa
headquarters.

I assure you that all these transactions of the spirit world are real, that
they take place in accordance with established usages and in harmony with the
immutable laws of the universal domains. The beings of every newly created
order, immediately upon receiving the breath of life, are instantly reflected
on high; a living portrayal of the creature nature and potential is flashed to
the superuniverse headquarters. Thus, by means of the discerners, are the
Censors made fully cognizant of exactly "what manner of spirit" has been born
on the worlds of space.

So it is with mortal man: The Mother Spirit of Salvington knows you fully, for
the Holy Spirit on your world "searches all things," and whatsoever the divine
Spirit knows of you is immediately available whenever the secoraphic discerners
reflect with the Spirit concerning the Spirit's knowledge of you. It should,
however, be mentioned that the knowledge and plans of the Father fragments are
not reflectible. The discerners can and do reflect the presence of the
Adjusters (and the Censors pronounce them divine), but they cannot decipher the
content of the mindedness of the Mystery Monitors.

6. THE TERTIARY SECONAPHIM

In the same manner as their fellows, these angels are created serially and in
seven reflective types, but these types are not assigned individually to the
separate services of the superuniverse administrators. All tertiary seconaphim
are collectively assigned to the Trinitized Sons of Attainment, and these
ascendant sons use them interchangeably; that is, the Mighty Messengers can and
do utilize any of the tertiary types, and so do their co-ordinates, Those High
in

                                top of page - 314

Authority and Those without Name and Number. These seven types of tertiary
seconaphim are:

1. The Significance of Origins. The ascendant Trinitized Sons of a
superuniverse government are charged with the responsibility of dealing with
all issues growing out of the origin of any individual, race, or world; and the
significance of origin is the paramount question in all our plans for the
cosmic advancement of the living creatures of the realm. All relationships and
the application of ethics grow out of the fundamental facts of origin. Origin
is the basis of the relational reaction of the Gods. Always does the Conjoint
Actor "take note of the man, in what manner he was born."

With the higher descendant beings, origin is simply a fact to be ascertained;
but with the ascending beings, including the lower orders of angels, the nature
and circumstances of origin are not always so clear, though of equally vital
importance at almost every turn of universe affairs--hence the value of having
at our disposal a series of reflective seconaphim who can instantly portray
anything required respecting the genesis of any being in either the central
universe or throughout the entire realm of a superuniverse.

The Significance of Origins are the living ready-reference genealogies of the
vast hosts of beings--men, angels, and others--who inhabit the seven
superuniverses. They are always ready to supply their superiors with an
up-to-date, replete, and trustworthy estimate of the ancestral factors and the
current actual status of any individual on any world of their respective
superuniverses; and their computation of possessed facts is always up to the
minute.

2. The Memory of Mercy. These are the actual, full and replete, living records
of the mercy which has been extended to individuals and races by the tender
ministrations of the instrumentalities of the Infinite Spirit in the mission of
adapting the justice of righteousness to the status of the realms, as disclosed
by the portrayals of the Significance of Origins. The Memory of Mercy discloses
the moral debt of the children of mercy--their spiritual liabilities--to be set
down against their assets of the saving provision established by the Sons of
God. In revealing the Father's pre-existent mercy, the Sons of God establish
the necessary credit to insure the survival of all. And then, in accordance
with the findings of the Significance of Origins, a mercy credit is established
for the survival of each rational creature, a credit of lavish proportions and
one of sufficient grace to insure the survival of every soul who really desires
divine citizenship.

The Memory of Mercy is a living trial balance, a current statement of your
account with the supernatural forces of the realms. These are the living
records of mercy ministration which are read into the testimony of the courts
of Uversa when each individual's right to unending life comes up for
adjudication, when "thrones are cast up and the Ancients of Days are seated.
The broadcasts of Uversa issue and come forth from before them; thousands upon
thousands minister to them, and ten thousand times ten thousand stand before
them. The judgment is set, and the books are opened." And the books which are
opened on such a momentous occasion are the living records of the tertiary
seconaphim of the superuniverses. The formal records are on file to corroborate
the testimony of the Memories of Mercy if they are required.

The Memory of Mercy must show that the saving credit established by the Sons of
God has been fully and faithfully paid out in the loving ministry of the

                                top of page - 315

patient personalities of the Third Source and Center. But when mercy is
exhausted, when the "memory" thereof testifies to its depletion, then does
justice prevail and righteousness decree. For mercy is not to be thrust upon
those who despise it; mercy is not a gift to be trampled under foot by the
persistent rebels of time. Nevertheless, though mercy is thus precious and
dearly bestowed, your individual drawing credits are always far in excess of
your ability to exhaust the reserve if you are sincere of purpose and honest of
heart.

The mercy reflectors, with their tertiary associates, engage in numerous
superuniverse ministries, including the teaching of the ascending creatures.
Among many other things the Significance of Origins teach these ascenders how
to apply spirit ethics, and following such training, the Memories of Mercy
teach them how to be truly merciful. While the spirit techniques of mercy
ministry are beyond your concept, you should even now understand that mercy is
a quality of growth. You should realize that there is a great reward of
personal satisfaction in being first just, next fair, then patient, then kind.
And then, on that foundation, if you choose and have it in your heart, you can
take the next step and really show mercy; but you cannot exhibit mercy in and
of itself. These steps must be traversed; otherwise there can be no genuine
mercy. There may be patronage, condescension, or charity--even pity--but not
mercy. True mercy comes only as the beautiful climax to these preceding
adjuncts to group understanding, mutual appreciation, fraternal fellowship,
spiritual communion, and divine harmony.

3. The Import of Time. Time is the one universal endowment of all will
creatures; it is the "one talent" intrusted to all intelligent beings. You all
have time in which to insure your survival; and time is fatally squandered only
when it is buried in neglect, when you fail so to utilize it as to make certain
the survival of your soul. Failure to improve one's time to the fullest extent
possible does not impose fatal penalties; it merely retards the pilgrim of time
in his journey of ascent. If survival is gained, all other losses can be
retrieved.

In the assignment of trusts the counsel of the Imports of Time is invaluable.
Time is a vital factor in everything this side of Havona and Paradise. In the
final judgment before the Ancients of Days, time is an element of evidence. The
Imports of Time must always afford testimony to show that every defendant has
had ample time for making decisions, achieving choice.

These time evaluators are also the secret of prophecy; they portray the element
of time which will be required in the completion of any undertaking, and they
are just as dependable as indicators as are the frandalanks and chronoldeks of
other living orders. The Gods foresee, hence foreknow; but the ascendant
authorities of the universes of time must consult the Imports of Time to be
able to forecast events of the future.

You will first encounter these beings on the mansion worlds, and they will
there instruct you in the advantageous use of that which you call "time," both
in its positive employment, work, and in its negative utilization, rest. Both
uses of time are important.

4. The Solemnity of Trust. Trust is the crucial test of will creatures.
Trustworthiness is the true measure of self-mastery, character. These
seconaphim accomplish a double purpose in the economy of the superuniverses:
They portray to all will creatures the sense of the obligation, sacredness, and
solemnity of

                                top of page - 316

trust. At the same time they unerringly reflect to the governing authorities
the exact trustworthiness of any candidate for confidence or trust.

On Urantia, you grotesquely essay to read character and to estimate specific
abilities, but on Uversa we actually do these things in perfection. These
seconaphim weigh trustworthiness in the living scales of unerring character
appraisal, and when they have looked at you, we have only to look at them to
know the limitations of your ability to discharge responsibility, execute
trust, and fulfill missions. Your assets of trustworthiness are clearly set
forth alongside your liabilities of possible default or betrayal.

It is the plan of your superiors to advance you by augmented trusts just as
fast as your character is sufficiently developed to gracefully bear these added
responsibilities, but to overload the individual only courts disaster and
insures disappointment. And the mistake of placing responsibility prematurely
upon either man or angel may be avoided by utilizing the ministry of these
infallible estimators of the trust capacity of the individuals of time and
space. These seconaphim ever accompany Those High in Authority, and never do
these executives make assignments until their candidates have been weighed in
the secoraphic balances and pronounced "not wanting."

5. The Sanctity of Service. The privilege of service immediately follows the
discovery of trustworthiness. Nothing can stand between you and opportunity for
increased service except your own untrustworthiness, your lack of capacity for
appreciation of the solemnity of trust.

Service--purposeful service, not slavery--is productive of the highest
satisfaction and is expressive of the divinest dignity. Service--more service,
increased service, difficult service, adventurous service, and at last divine
and perfect service--is the goal of time and the destination of space. But ever
will the play cycles of time alternate with the service cycles of progress. And
after the service of time there follows the superservice of eternity. During
the play of time you should envision the work of eternity, even as you will,
during the service of eternity, reminisce the play of time.

The universal economy is based on intake and output; throughout the eternal
career you will never encounter monotony of inaction or stagnation of
personality. Progress is made possible by inherent motion, advancement grows
out of the divine capacity for action, and achievement is the child of
imaginative adventure. But inherent in this capacity for achievement is the
responsibility of ethics, the necessity for recognizing that the world and the
universe are filled with a multitude of differing types of beings. All of this
magnificent creation, including yourself, was not made just for you. This is
not an egocentric universe. The Gods have decreed, "It is more blessed to give
than to receive," and said your Master Son, "He who would be greatest among you
let him be server of all."

The real nature of any service, be it rendered by man or angel, is fully
revealed in the faces of these secoraphic service indicators, the Sanctities of
Service. The full analysis of the true and of the hidden motives is clearly
shown. These angels are indeed the mind readers, heart searchers, and soul
revealers of the universe. Mortals may employ words to conceal their thoughts,
but these high seconaphim lay bare the deep motives of the human heart and of
the angelic mind.

                                top of page - 317

6 and 7. The Secret of Greatness and the Soul of Goodness. The ascending
pilgrims having awakened to the import of time, the way is prepared for the
realization of the solemnity of trust and for the appreciation of the sanctity
of service. While these are the moral elements of greatness, there are also
secrets of greatness. When the spiritual tests of greatness are applied, the
moral elements are not disregarded, but the quality of unselfishness revealed
in disinterested labor for the welfare of one's earthly fellows, particularly
worthy beings in need and in distress, that is the real measure of planetary
greatness. And the manifestation of greatness on a world like Urantia is the
exhibition of self-control. The great man is not he who "takes a city" or
"overthrows a nation," but rather "he who subdues his own tongue."

Greatness is synonymous with divinity. God is supremely great and good.
Greatness and goodness simply cannot be divorced. They are forever made one in
God. This truth is literally and strikingly illustrated by the reflective
interdependence of the Secret of Greatness and the Soul of Goodness, for
neither can function without the other. In reflecting other qualities of
divinity, the superuniverse seconaphim can and do act alone, but the reflective
estimates of greatness and of goodness appear to be inseparable. Hence, on any
world, in any universe, must these reflectors of greatness and of goodness work
together, always showing a dual and mutually dependent report of every being
upon whom they focalize. Greatness cannot be estimated without knowing the
content of goodness, while goodness cannot be portrayed without exhibiting its
inherent and divine greatness.

The estimate of greatness varies from sphere to sphere. To be great is to be
Godlike. And since the quality of greatness is wholly determined by the content
of goodness, it follows that, even in your present human estate, if you can
through grace become good, you are thereby becoming great. The more steadfastly
you behold, and the more persistently you pursue, the concepts of divine
goodness, the more certainly will you grow in greatness, in true magnitude of
genuine survival character.

7. MINISTRY OF THE SECONAPHIM

The seconaphim have their origin and headquarters on the capitals of the
superuniverses, but with their liaison fellows they range from the shores of
Paradise to the evolutionary worlds of space. They serve as valued assistants
to the members of the deliberative assemblies of the supergovernments and are
of great help to the courtesy colonies of Uversa: the star students, millennial
tourists, celestial observers, and a host of others, including the ascendant
beings in waiting for Havona transport. The Ancients of Days take pleasure in
assigning certain of the primary seconaphim to assist the ascending creatures
domiciled on the four hundred ninety study worlds surrounding Uversa, and here
also do many of the secondary and tertiary orders serve as teachers. These
Uversa satellites are the finishing schools of the universes of time,
presenting the preparatory course for the seven-circuited university of Havona.

Of the three orders of seconaphim, the tertiary group, attached to the
ascendant authorities, minister most extensively to the ascending creatures of
time. You will on occasion meet them soon after your departure from Urantia,
though you will not freely make use of their services until you reach the
tarrying worlds of

                                top of page - 318

Orvonton. You will enjoy their companionship when you become fully acquainted
with them during your sojourn on the Uversa school worlds.

These tertiary seconaphim are the timesavers, space abridgers, error detectors,
faithful teachers, and everlasting guideposts--living signs of divine
surety--in mercy placed at the crossroads of time, there to guide the feet of
anxious pilgrims in moments of great perplexity and spiritual uncertainty. Long
before attaining the portals of perfection, you will begin to gain access to
the tools of divinity and to make contact with the techniques of Deity.
Increasingly, from the time you arrive on the initial mansion world until you
close your eyes in the Havona sleep preparatory to your Paradise transit, you
will avail yourself of the emergency help of these marvelous beings, who are so
fully and freely reflective of the sure knowledge and certain wisdom of those
safe and dependable pilgrims who have preceded you on the long journey to the
portals of perfection.

We are denied the full privilege of using these angels of the reflective order
on Urantia. They are frequent visitors on your world, accompanying assigned
personalities, but here they cannot freely function. This sphere is still under
partial spiritual quarantine, and some of the circuits essential to their
services are not here at present. When your world is once more restored to the
reflective circuits concerned, much of the work of interplanetary and
interuniverse communication will be greatly simplified and expedited. Celestial
workers on Urantia encounter many difficulties because of this functional
curtailment of their reflective associates. But we go on joyfully conducting
our affairs with the instrumentalities at hand, notwithstanding our local
deprivation of many of the services of these marvelous beings, the living
mirrors of space and the presence projectors of time.

[Sponsored by a Mighty Messenger of Uversa.]

                                top of page - 319

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   Ministry Of    ³   The Universe    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      The...      ³       Po...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
