              Urantia Book Paper 29 The Universe Power Directors
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 29 The Universe Power Directors

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

OF ALL the universe personalities concerned in the regulation of interplanetary
and interuniverse affairs, the power directors and their associates have been
the least understood on Urantia. While your races have long known of the
existence of angels and similar orders of celestial beings, little information
concerning the controllers and regulators of the physical domain has ever been
imparted. Even now I am permitted fully to disclose only the last of the
following three groups of living beings having to do with force control and
energy regulation in the master universe:

1. Primary Eventuated Master Force Organizers.

2. Associate Transcendental Master Force Organizers.

3. Universe Power Directors.

Though I deem it impossible to portray the individuality of the various groups
of directors, centers, and controllers of universe power, I hope to be able to
explain something about the domain of their activities. They are a unique group
of living beings having to do with the intelligent regulation of energy
throughout the grand universe. Including the supreme directors, they embrace
the following major divisions:

1. The Seven Supreme Power Directors.

2. The Supreme Power Centers.

3. The Master Physical Controllers.

4. The Morontia Power Supervisors.

The Supreme Power Directors and Centers have existed from the near times of
eternity, and as far as we know, no more beings of these orders have been
created. The Seven Supreme Directors were personalized by the Seven Master
Spirits, and then they collaborated with their parents in the production of
more than ten billion associates. Before the days of the power directors the
energy circuits of space outside of the central universe were under the
intelligent supervision of the Master Force Organizers of Paradise.

Having knowledge about material creatures, you have at least a contrastive
conception of spiritual beings; but it is very difficult for the mortal mind to
envisage the power directors. In the scheme of ascendant progression to higher
levels of existence you have nothing directly to do with either the supreme
directors or the power centers. On certain rare occasions you will have
dealings with the physical controllers, and you will work freely with the
supervisors of morontia power upon reaching the mansion worlds. These Morontia
Power Supervisors function so exclusively in the morontia regime of the local
creations

                                top of page - 320

that it is deemed best to narrate their activities in the section dealing with
the local universe.

1. THE SEVEN SUPREME POWER DIRECTORS

The Seven Supreme Power Directors are the physical-energy regulators of the
grand universe. Their creation by the Seven Master Spirits is the first
recorded instance of the derivation of semimaterial progeny from true spirit
ancestry. When the Seven Master Spirits create individually, they bring forth
highly spiritual personalities on the angelic order; when they create
collectively, they sometimes produce these high types of semimaterial beings.
But even these quasi-physical beings would be invisible to the short-range
vision of Urantia mortals.

The Supreme Power Directors are seven in number, and they are identical in
appearance and function. One cannot be distinguished from another except by
that Master Spirit with whom each is in immediate association, and to whom each
is in complete functional subservience. Each of the Master Spirits is thus in
eternal union with one of their collective offspring. The same director is
always in association with the same Spirit, and their working partnership
results in a unique association of physical and spiritual energies, of a
semiphysical being and a spirit personality.

The Seven Supreme Power Directors are stationed on peripheral Paradise, where
their slowly circulating presences indicate the whereabouts of the force-focal
headquarters of the Master Spirits. These power directors function singly in
the power-energy regulation of the superuniverses but collectively in the
administration of the central creation. They operate from Paradise but maintain
themselves as effective power centers in all divisions of the grand universe.

These mighty beings are the physical ancestors of the vast host of the power
centers and, through them, of the physical controllers scattered throughout the
seven superuniverses. Such subordinate physical-control organisms are basically
uniform, identical except for the differential toning of each superuniverse
corps. In order to change in superuniverse service, they would merely have to
return to Paradise for retoning. The physical creation is fundamentally uniform
in administration.

2. THE SUPREME POWER CENTERS

The Seven Supreme Power Directors are not able, individually, to reproduce
themselves, but collectively, and in association with the Seven Master Spirits,
they can and do reproduce--create--other beings like themselves. Such is the
origin of the Supreme Power Centers of the grand universe, who function in the
following seven groups:

1. Supreme Center Supervisors.

2. Havona Centers.

3. Superuniverse Centers.

4. Local Universe Centers.

5. Constellation Centers.

6. System Centers.

7. Unclassified Centers.

                                top of page - 321

These power centers together with the Supreme Power Directors are beings of
high will freedom and action. They are all endowed with Third-Source
personality and disclose unquestioned volitional capacity of a high order.
These directing centers of the universe power system are the possessors of
exquisite intelligence endowment; they are the intellect of the power system of
the grand universe and the secret of the technique of the mind control of all
the vast network of the far-flung functions of the Master Physical Controllers
and the Morontia Power Supervisors.

1. Supreme Center Supervisors. These seven co-ordinates and associates of the
Supreme Power Directors are the regulators of the master energy circuits of the
grand universe. Each center supervisor is headquartered on one of the special
worlds of the Seven Supreme Executives, and they work in close association with
these co-ordinators of general universe affairs.

The Supreme Power Directors and the Supreme Center Supervisors function both as
individuals and conjointly with regard to all cosmic phenomena below the levels
of "gravity energy." When acting in liaison, these fourteen beings are to
universe power what the Seven Supreme Executives are to general universe
affairs, and what the Seven Master Spirits are to the cosmic mind.

2. Havona Centers. Before the creation of the universes of time and space,
power centers were not required in Havona, but ever since these far-distant
times, one million have functioned in the central creation, each center having
the supervision of a thousand Havona worlds. Here in the divine universe there
is perfection of energy control, a condition not existing elsewhere. Perfection
of energy regulation is the ultimate goal of all the power centers and the
physical controllers of space.

3. Superuniverse Centers. Occupying an enormous area on the capital sphere of
each of the seven superuniverses are one thousand power centers of the third
order. Three currents of primary energy of ten segregations each come in to
these power centers, but seven specialized and well-directed, though
imperfectly controlled, circuits of power go forth from their seat of united
action. This is the electronic organization of universe power.

All energy is circuited in the Paradise cycle, but the Universe Power Directors
direct the force-energies of nether Paradise as they find them modified in the
space functions of the central and superuniverses, converting and directing
these energies into channels of useful and constructive application. There is a
difference between Havona energy and the energies of the superuniverses. The
power charge of a superuniverse consists of three phases of energy of ten
segregations each. This threefold energy charge spreads throughout the space of
the grand universe; it is like a vast moving ocean of energy which engulfs and
bathes the whole of each of the seven supercreations.

The electronic organization of universe power functions in seven phases and
discloses varying response to local or linear gravity. This sevenfold circuit
proceeds from the superuniverse power centers and pervades each supercreation.
Such specialized currents of time and space are definite and localized energy
movements initiated and directed for specific purposes, much as the Gulf Stream
functions as a circumscribed phenomenon in the midst of the Atlantic Ocean.

4. Local Universe Centers. On the headquarters of each local universe are
stationed one hundred power centers of the fourth order. They function to down-

                                top of page - 322

step and otherwise to modify the seven power circuits emanating from
superuniverse headquarters, thus making them applicable to the services of the
constellations and systems. The local astronomical catastrophes of space are of
passing concern to these power centers; they are engaged in the orderly
dispatch of effective energy to the subsidiary constellations and systems. They
are of great assistance to the Creator Sons during the later times of universe
organization and energy mobilization. These centers are able to provide
intensified lanes of energy useful for interplanetary communication between
important inhabited points. Such a lane or line of energy, sometimes also
called an energy path, is a direct circuit of energy from one power center to
another power center or from one physical controller to another controller. It
is an individualized stream of power and stands in contrast to the free space
movements of undifferentiated energy.

5. Constellation Centers. Ten of these living power centers are stationed in
each constellation, functioning as energy projectors to the one hundred
tributary local systems. From these beings there go forth the power lines for
communication and transport and for the energizing of those living creatures
who are dependent upon certain forms of physical energy for the maintenance of
life. But neither the power centers nor the subordinate physical controllers
are otherwise concerned with life as a functional organization.

6. System Centers. One Supreme Power Center is permanently assigned to each
local system. These system centers dispatch the power circuits to the inhabited
worlds of time and space. They co-ordinate the activities of the subordinate
physical controllers and otherwise function to insure the satisfactory
distribution of power in the local system. The circuit relay between the
planets depends upon the perfect co-ordination of certain material energies and
upon the efficient regulation of physical power.

7. Unclassified Centers. These are the centers who function in special local
situations but not on the inhabited planets. The individual worlds are in the
charge of Master Physical Controllers and receive the encircuited lines of
power dispatched by the power center of their system. Only those spheres of the
most extraordinary energy relationships have power centers of the seventh order
acting as universe balance wheels or energy governors. In every phase of
activity these power centers are the full equals of those who function on the
higher units of control, but not one space body in a million harbors such a
living power organization.

3. THE DOMAIN OF POWER CENTERS

The Supreme Power Centers distributed throughout the superuniverses number,
with their associates and subordinates, upward of ten billion. And they are all
in perfect synchrony and complete liaison with their Paradise progenitors, the
Seven Supreme Power Directors. The power control of the grand universe is thus
intrusted to the keeping and direction of the Seven Master Spirits, the
creators of the Seven Supreme Power Directors.

The Supreme Power Directors and all their associates, assistants, and
subordinates are forever exempt from apprehension or interference by all the
tribunals of all space; neither are they subject to the administrative
direction either

                                top of page - 323

of the superuniverse government of the Ancients of Days or of the local
universe administration of the Creator Sons.

These power centers and directors are brought into being by the children of the
Infinite Spirit. They are not germane to the administration of the Sons of God,
though they affiliate with the Creator Sons during the later epochs of universe
material organization. But the power centers are in some way closely associated
with the cosmic overcontrol of the Supreme Being.

Power centers and physical controllers undergo no training; they are all
created in perfection and are inherently perfect in action. Never do they pass
from one function to another; always do they serve as originally assigned.
There is no evolution in their ranks, and this is true of all seven divisions
of both orders.

Having no ascendant past to revert to in memory, power centers and physical
controllers never play; they are thoroughly businesslike in all their actions.
They are always on duty; there is no provision in the universal scheme for the
interruption of the physical lines of energy; never for a fraction of a second
can these beings relinquish their direct supervision of the energy circuits of
time and space.

The directors, centers, and controllers of power have nothing to do with
anything in all creation except power, material or semiphysical energy; they do
not originate it, but they do modify, manipulate, and directionize it. Neither
do they have anything whatever to do with physical gravity except to resist its
drawing power. Their relation to gravity is wholly negative.

The power centers utilize vast mechanisms and co-ordinations of a material
order in liaison with the living mechanisms of the various segregated energy
concentrations. Each individual power center is constituted in exactly one
million units of functional control, and these energy-modifying units are not
stationary as are the vital organs of man's physical body; these "vital organs"
of power regulation are mobile and truly kaleidoscopic in associative
possibilities.

It is utterly beyond my ability to explain the manner in which these living
beings encompass the manipulation and regulation of the master circuits of
universe energy. To undertake to inform you further concerning the size and
function of these gigantic and almost perfectly efficient power centers, would
only add to your confusion and consternation. They are both living and
"personal," but they are beyond your comprehension.

Outside of Havona the Supreme Power Centers function only on especially
constructed (architectural) spheres or on otherwise suitably constituted space
bodies. The architectural worlds are so constructed that the living power
centers can act as selective switches to directionize, modify, and concentrate
the energies of space as they pour over these spheres. They could not so
function on an ordinary evolutionary sun or planet. Certain groups are also
concerned in the heating and other material necessities of these special
headquarters worlds. And though it is beyond the scope of Urantia knowledge, I
may state that these orders of living power personalities have much to do with
the distribution of the light that shines without heat. They do not produce
this phenomenon, but they are concerned with its dissemination and
directionization.

The power centers and their subordinate controllers are assigned to the working
of all of the physical energies of organized space. They work with the three
basic currents of ten energies each. That is the energy charge of organized

                                top of page - 324

space; and organized space is their domain. The Universe Power Directors have
nothing whatever to do with those tremendous actions of force which are now
taking place outside the present boundaries of the seven superuniverses.

The power centers and controllers exert perfect control over only seven of the
ten forms of energy contained in each basic universe current; those forms which
are partly or wholly exempt from their control must represent the unpredictable
realms of energy manifestation dominated by the Unqualified Absolute. If they
exert an influence upon the primordial forces of this Absolute, we are not
cognizant of such functions, though there is some slight evidence which would
warrant the opinion that certain of the physical controllers are sometimes
automatically reactive to certain impulses of the Universal Absolute.

These living power mechanisms are not consciously related to the master
universe energy overcontrol of the Unqualified Absolute, but we surmise that
their entire and almost perfect scheme of power direction is in some unknown
manner subordinated to this supergravity presence. In any local energy
situation the centers and controllers exert near-supremacy, but they are always
conscious of the superenergy presence and the unrecognizable performance of the
Unqualified Absolute.

4. THE MASTER PHYSICAL CONTROLLERS

These beings are the mobile subordinates of the Supreme Power Centers. The
physical controllers are endowed with capabilities of individuality
metamorphosis of such a nature that they can engage in a remarkable variety of
autotransport, being able to traverse local space at velocities approaching the
flight of Solitary Messengers. But like all other space traversers they require
the assistance of both their fellows and certain other types of beings in
overcoming the action of gravity and the resistance of inertia in departing
from a material sphere.

The Master Physical Controllers serve throughout the grand universe. They are
directly governed from Paradise by the Seven Supreme Power Directors as far as
the headquarters of the superuniverses; from here they are directed and
distributed by the Council of Equilibrium, the high commissioners of power
dispatched by the Seven Master Spirits from the personnel of the Associate
Master Force Organizers. These high commissioners are empowered to interpret
the readings and registrations of the master frandalanks, those living
instruments which indicate the power pressure and the energy charge of an
entire superuniverse.

While the presence of the Paradise Deities encircles the grand universe and
sweeps around the circle of eternity, the influence of any one of the Seven
Master Spirits is limited to a single superuniverse. There is a distinct
segregation of energy and a separation of the circuits of power between each of
the seven supercreations; hence individualized control methods must and do
prevail.

The Master Physical Controllers are the direct offspring of the Supreme Power
Centers, and their numbers include the following:

1. Associate Power Directors.

2. Mechanical Controllers.

3. Energy Transformers.

                                top of page - 325

4. Energy Transmitters.

5. Primary Associators.

6. Secondary Dissociators.

7. The Frandalanks and Chronoldeks.

Not all of these orders are persons in the sense of possessing individual
powers of choice. Especially do the last four seem to be wholly automatic and
mechanical in response to the impulses of their superiors and in reaction to
existing energy conditions. But though such response appears wholly
mechanistic, it is not; they may seem to be automatons, but all of them
disclose the differential function of intelligence.

Personality is not necessarily a concomitant of mind. Mind can think even when
deprived of all power of choice, as in numerous of the lower types of animals
and in certain of these subordinate physical controllers. Many of these more
automatic regulators of physical power are not persons in any sense of the
term. They are not endowed with will and independence of decision, being wholly
subservient to the mechanical perfection of design for the tasks of their
allotment. Nonetheless all of them are highly intelligent beings.

The physical controllers are chiefly occupied in the adjustment of basic
energies undiscovered on Urantia. These unknown energies are very essential to
the interplanetary system of transport and to certain techniques of
communication. When we lay lines of energy for the purpose of conveying sound
equivalents or of extending vision, these undiscovered forms of energy are
utilized by the living physical controllers and their associates. These same
energies are also, on occasion, used by the midway creatures in their routine
work.

1. Associate Power Directors. These marvelously efficient beings are intrusted
with the assignment and dispatch of all orders of the Master Physical
Controllers in accordance with the ever-shifting needs of the constantly
changing energy status of the realms. The vast reserves of the physical
controllers are maintained on the headquarters worlds of the minor sectors, and
from these concentration points they are periodically dispatched by the
associate power directors to the headquarters of the universes, constellations,
and systems, and to the individual planets. When thus assigned, the physical
controllers are provisionally subject to the orders of the divine executioners
of the conciliating commissions but are otherwise solely amenable to their
associate directors and to the Supreme Power Centers.

Three million associate power directors are assigned to each of the Orvonton
minor sectors, making a total of three billion as the superuniverse quota of
these amazingly versatile beings. Their own reserves are maintained on these
same minor sector worlds, where they also serve as instructors of all who study
the sciences of the techniques of intelligent energy control and transmutation.

These directors alternate periods of executive service in the minor sectors
with equal periods of inspection service to the realms of space. At least one
acting inspector is always present in each local system, maintaining
headquarters on its capital sphere. They keep the whole vast living energy
aggregation in harmonious synchrony.

2. Mechanical Controllers. These are the exceedingly versatile and mobile
assistants of the associate power directors. Trillions upon trillions of them
are commissioned in Ensa, your minor sector. These beings are called mechanical

                                top of page - 326

controllers because they are so completely dominated by their superiors, so
fully subservient to the will of the associate power directors. Nevertheless
they are, themselves, very intelligent, and their work, though mechanical and
matter-of-fact in nature, is skillfully performed.

Of all the Master Physical Controllers assigned to the inhabited worlds, the
mechanical controllers are by far the most powerful. Possessing the living
endowment of antigravity in excess of all other beings, each controller has a
gravity resistance equaled only by enormous spheres revolving at tremendous
velocity. Ten of these controllers are now stationed on Urantia, and one of
their most important planetary activities is to facilitate the departure of
seraphic transports. In so functioning, all ten of the mechanical controllers
act in unison while a battery of one thousand energy transmitters provides the
initial momentum for the seraphic departure.

The mechanical controllers are competent to directionize the flow of energy and
to facilitate its concentration into the specialized currents or circuits.
These mighty beings have much to do with the segregation, directionization, and
intensification of the physical energies and with the equalization of the
pressures of the interplanetary circuits. They are expert in the manipulation
of twenty-one of the thirty physical energies of space, constituting the power
charge of a superuniverse. They are also able to accomplish much towards the
management and control of six of the nine more subtle forms of physical energy.
By placing these controllers in proper technical relationship to each other and
to certain of the power centers, the associate power directors are enabled to
effect unbelievable changes in power adjustment and energy control.

The Master Physical Controllers often function in batteries of hundreds,
thousands, and even millions and by varying their positions and formations are
able to effect energy control in a collective as well as an individual
capacity. As requirements vary, they can upstep and accelerate the energy
volume and movement or detain, condense, and retard the energy currents. They
influence energy and power transformations somewhat as so-called catalytic
agents augment chemical reactions. They function by inherent ability and in
co-operation with the Supreme Power Centers.

3. Energy Transformers. The number of these beings in a superuniverse is
unbelievable. There are almost one million in Satania alone, and the usual
quota is one hundred for each inhabited world.

The energy transformers are the conjoint creation of the Seven Supreme Power
Directors and the Seven Central Supervisors. They are among the more personal
orders of physical controllers, and except when an associate power director is
present on an inhabited world, the transformers are in command. They are the
planetary inspectors of all departing seraphic transports. All classes of
celestial life can utilize the less personal orders of the physical controllers
only by liaison with the more personal orders of the associate directors and
the energy transformers.

These transformers are powerful and effective living switches, being able to
dispose themselves for or against a given power disposition or
directionization. They are also skillful in their efforts to insulate the
planets against the powerful energy streams passing between gigantic planetary
and starry neighbors. Their energy-transmutive attributes render them most
serviceable in the important task of maintaining universal energy balance, or
power equilibrium. At one

                                top of page - 327

time they seem to consume or store energy; at other times they appear to exude
or liberate energy. The transformers are able to increase or to diminish the
"storage-battery" potential of the living and dead energies of their respective
realms. But they deal only with physical and semimaterial energies, they do not
directly function in the domain of life, neither do they change the forms of
living beings.

In some respects the energy transformers are the most remarkable and mysterious
of all semimaterial living creatures. They are in some unknown manner
physically differentiated, and by varying their liaison relationships, they are
able to exert a profound influence upon the energy which passes through their
associated presences. The status of the physical realms seems to undergo a
transformation under their skillful manipulation. They can and do change the
physical form of the energies of space. With the aid of their fellow
controllers they are actually able to change the form and potential of
twenty-seven of the thirty physical energies of the superuniverse power charge.
That three of these energies are beyond their control proves that they are not
instrumentalities of the Unqualified Absolute.

The remaining four groups of the Master Physical Controllers are hardly persons
within any acceptable definition of that word. These transmitters, associators,
dissociators, and frandalanks are wholly automatic in their reactions;
nevertheless they are in every sense intelligent. We are greatly limited in our
knowledge of these wonderful entities because we cannot communicate with them.
They appear to understand the language of the realm, but they cannot
communicate with us. They seem fully able to receive our communications but
quite powerless to make response.

4. Energy Transmitters. These beings function chiefly, but not wholly, in an
intraplanetary capacity. They are marvelous dispatchers of energy as it is
manifested on the individual worlds.

When energy is to be diverted to a new circuit, the transmitters deploy
themselves in a line along the desired energy path, and by virtue of their
unique attributes of energy-attraction, they can actually induce an increased
energy flow in the desired direction. This they do just as literally as certain
metallic circuits directionize the flow of certain forms of electric energy;
and they are living superconductors for more than half of the thirty forms of
physical energy.

Transmitters form skillful liaisons which are effective in rehabilitating the
weakening currents of specialized energy passing from planet to planet and from
station to station on an individual planet. They can detect currents which are
much too feeble to be recognized by any other type of living being, and they
can so augment these energies that the accompanying message becomes perfectly
intelligible. Their services are invaluable to the broadcast receivers.

Energy transmitters can function with regard to all forms of communicable
perception; they can render a distant scene "visible" as well as a distant
sound "audible." They provide the emergency lines of communication in the local
systems and on the individual planets. These services must be used by
practically all creatures for purposes of communication outside of the
regularly established circuits.

These beings, together with the energy transformers, are indispensable to the
maintenance of mortal existence on those worlds having an impoverished

                                top of page - 328

atmosphere, and they are an integral part of the technique of life on the
nonbreathing planets.

5. Primary Associators. These interesting and invaluable entities are masterly
energy conservators and custodians. Somewhat as a plant stores solar light, so
do these living organisms store energy during times of plus manifestations.
They work on a gigantic scale, converting the energies of space into a physical
state not known on Urantia. They are also able to carry forward these
transformations to the point of producing some of the primitive units of
material existence. These beings simply act by their presence. They are in no
way exhausted or depleted by this function; they act like living catalytic
agents.

During seasons of minus manifestations they are empowered to release these
accumulated energies. But your knowledge of energy and matter is not
sufficiently advanced to make it possible to explain the technique of this
phase of their work. They always labor in compliance with universal law,
handling and manipulating atoms, electrons, and ultimatons much as you maneuver
adjustable type to make the same alphabetical symbols tell vastly different
stories.

The associators are the first group of life to appear on an organizing material
sphere, and they can function at physical temperatures which you would regard
as utterly incompatible with the existence of living beings. They represent an
order of life which is simply beyond the range of human imagination. Together
with their co-workers, the dissociators, they are the most slavish of all
intelligent creatures.

6. Secondary Dissociators. Compared with the primary associators, these beings
of enormous antigravity endowment are the reverse workers. There is never any
danger that the special or modified forms of physical energy on the local
worlds or in the local systems will be exhausted, for these living
organizations are endowed with the unique power of evolving limitless supplies
of energy. They are chiefly concerned with the evolution of a form of energy
which is hardly known on Urantia from a form of matter which is recognized
still less. They are truly the alchemists of space and the wonder-workers of
time. But in all the wonders they work, they never transgress the mandates of
Cosmic Supremacy.

7. The Frandalanks. These beings are the joint creation of all three orders of
energy-control beings: the primary and secondary force organizers and the power
directors. Frandalanks are the most numerous of all the Master Physical
Controllers; the number functioning in Satania alone is beyond your numerical
concept. They are stationed on all inhabited worlds and are always attached to
the higher orders of physical controllers. They function interchangeably in the
central and superuniverses and in the domains of outer space.

The frandalanks are created in thirty divisions, one for each form of basic
universe force, and they function exclusively as living and automatic presence,
pressure, and velocity gauges. These living barometers are solely concerned
with the automatic and unerring registration of the status of all forms of
force-energy. They are to the physical universe what the vast reflectivity
mechanism is to the minded universe. The frandalanks that register time in
addition to quantitative and qualitative energy presence are called
chronoldeks.

I recognize that the frandalanks are intelligent, but I cannot classify them as
other than living machines. About the only way I can help you to understand

                                top of page - 329

these living mechanisms is to compare them to your own mechanical contrivances
which perform with almost intelligentlike precision and accuracy. Then if you
would conceive of these beings, draw upon your imagination to the extent of
recognizing that in the grand universe we actually have intelligent and living
mechanisms (entities) that can perform more intricate tasks involving more
stupendous computations with even greater delicacy of accuracy, even with
ultimacy of precision.

5. THE MASTER FORCE ORGANIZERS

The force organizers are resident on Paradise, but they function throughout the
master universe, more particularly in the domains of unorganized space. These
extraordinary beings are neither creators nor creatures, and they comprise two
grand divisions of service:

1. Primary Eventuated Master Force Organizers.

2. Associate Transcendental Master Force Organizers.

These two mighty orders of primordial-force manipulators work exclusively under
the supervision of the Architects of the Master Universe, and at the present
time they do not function extensively within the boundaries of the grand
universe.

Primary Master Force Organizers are the manipulators of the primordial or basic
space-forces of the Unqualified Absolute; they are nebulae creators. They are
the living instigators of the energy cyclones of space and the early organizers
and directionizers of these gigantic manifestations. These force organizers
transmute primordial force (pre-energy not responsive to direct Paradise
gravity) into primary or puissant energy, energy transmuting from the exclusive
grasp of the Unqualified Absolute to the gravity grasp of the Isle of Paradise.
They are thereupon succeeded by the associate force organizers, who continue
the process of energy transmutation from the primary through the secondary or
gravity-energy stage.

Upon the completion of the plans for the creation of a local universe,
signalized by the arrival of a Creator Son, the Associate Master Force
Organizers give way to the orders of power directors acting in the
superuniverse of astronomic jurisdiction. But in the absence of such plans the
associate force organizers continue on indefinitely in charge of these material
creations, even as they now operate in outer space.

The Master Force Organizers withstand temperatures and function under physical
conditions which would be intolerable even to the versatile power centers and
physical controllers of Orvonton. The only other types of revealed beings
capable of functioning in these realms of outer space are the Solitary
Messengers and the Inspired Trinity Spirits.

[Sponsored by a Universal Censor acting by authority of the Ancients of Days on
Uversa.]

                                top of page - 330

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   Ministering    ³   Personalities   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Spi...      ³       O...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
