          Urantia Book Paper 30 Personalities Of The Grand Universe
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 Paper 30 Personalities Of The Grand Universe

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE personalities and other-than-personal entities now functioning on Paradise
and in the grand universe constitute a well-nigh limitless number of living
beings. Even the number of major orders and types would stagger the human
imagination, let alone the countless subtypes and variations. It is, however,
desirable to present something of two basic classifications of living beings--a
suggestion of the Paradise classification and an abbreviation of the Uversa
Personality Register.

It is not possible to formulate comprehensive and entirely consistent
classifications of the personalities of the grand universe because all of the
groups are not revealed. It would require numerous additional papers to cover
the further revelation required to systematically classify all groups. Such
conceptual expansion would hardly be desirable as it would deprive the thinking
mortals of the next thousand years of that stimulus to creative speculation
which these partially revealed concepts supply. It is best that man not have an
overrevelation; it stifles imagination.

1. THE PARADISE CLASSIFICATION OF LIVING BEINGS

Living beings are classified on Paradise in accordance with inherent and
attained relationship to the Paradise Deities. During the grand gatherings of
the central and superuniverses those present are often grouped in accordance
with origin: those of triune origin, or of Trinity attainment; those of dual
origin; and those of single origin. It is difficult to interpret the Paradise
classification of living beings to the mortal mind, but we are authorized to
present the following:

I. TRIUNE-ORIGIN BEINGS. Beings created by all three Paradise Deities, either
as such or as the Trinity, together with the Trinitized Corps, which
designation refers to all groups of trinitized beings, revealed and unrevealed.

A. The Supreme Spirits.

1. The Seven Master Spirits.

2. The Seven Supreme Executives.

3. The Seven Orders of Reflective Spirits.

B. The Stationary Sons of the Trinity.

1. Trinitized Secrets of Supremacy.

2. Eternals of Days.

3. Ancients of Days.

4. Perfections of Days.

                                top of page - 331

5. Recents of Days.

6. Unions of Days.

7. Faithfuls of Days.

8. Perfectors of Wisdom.

9. Divine Counselors.

10. Universal Censors.

C. Trinity-origin and Trinitized Beings.

1. Trinity Teacher Sons.

2. Inspired Trinity Spirits.

3. Havona Natives.

4. Paradise Citizens.

5. Unrevealed Trinity-origin Beings.

6. Unrevealed Deity-trinitized Beings.

7. Trinitized Sons of Attainment.

8. Trinitized Sons of Selection.

9. Trinitized Sons of Perfection.

10. Creature-trinitized Sons.

II. DUAL-ORIGIN BEINGS. Those of origin in any two of the Paradise Deities or
otherwise created by any two beings of direct or indirect descent from the
Paradise Deities.

A. The Descending Orders.

1. Creator Sons.

2. Magisterial Sons.

3. Bright and Morning Stars.

4. Father Melchizedeks.

5. The Melchizedeks.

6. The Vorondadeks.

7. The Lanonandeks.

8. Brilliant Evening Stars.

9. The Archangels.

10. Life Carriers.

11. Unrevealed Universe Aids.

12. Unrevealed Sons of God.

B. The Stationary Orders.

1. Abandonters.

2. Susatia.

3. Univitatia.

4. Spironga.

5. Unrevealed Dual-origin Beings.

C. The Ascending Orders.

1. Adjuster-fused Mortals.

2. Son-fused Mortals.

3. Spirit-fused Mortals.

4. Translated Midwayers.

5. Unrevealed Ascenders.

                                top of page - 332

III. SINGLE-ORIGIN BEINGS. Those of origin in any one of the Paradise Deities
or otherwise created by any one being of direct or indirect descent from the
Paradise Deities.

A. The Supreme Spirits.

1. Gravity Messengers.

2. The Seven Spirits of the Havona Circuits.

3. The Twelvefold Adjutants of the Havona Circuits.

4. The Reflective Image Aids.

5. Universe Mother Spirits.

6. The Sevenfold Adjutant Mind-Spirits.

7. Unrevealed Deity-origin Beings.

B. The Ascending Orders.

1. Personalized Adjusters.

2. Ascending Material Sons.

3. Evolutionary Seraphim.

4. Evolutionary Cherubim.

5. Unrevealed Ascenders.

C. The Family of the Infinite Spirit.

1. Solitary Messengers.

2. Universe Circuit Supervisors.

3. Census Directors.

4. Personal Aids of the Infinite Spirit.

5. Associate Inspectors.

6. Assigned Sentinels.

7. Graduate Guides.

8. Havona Servitals.

9. Universal Conciliators.

10. Morontia Companions.

11. Supernaphim.

12. Seconaphim.

13. Tertiaphim.

14. Omniaphim.

15. Seraphim.

16. Cherubim and Sanobim.

17. Unrevealed Spirit-origin Beings.

18. The Seven Supreme Power Directors.

19. The Supreme Power Centers.

20. The Master Physical Controllers.

21. The Morontia Power Supervisors.

IV. EVENTUATED TRANSCENDENTAL BEINGS. There is to be found on Paradise a vast
host of transcendental beings whose origin is not ordinarily disclosed to the
universes of time and space until they are settled in light and life. These
Transcendentalers are neither creators nor creatures; they are the eventuated
children of divinity, ultimacy, and eternity. These "eventuators" are neither
finite nor infinite--they are absonite; and absonity is neither infinity nor
absoluteness.

                                top of page - 333

These uncreated noncreators are ever loyal to the Paradise Trinity and obedient
to the Ultimate. They are existent on four ultimate levels of personality
activity and are functional on the seven levels of the absonite in twelve grand
divisions consisting of one thousand major working groups of seven classes
each. These eventuated beings include the following orders:

1. The Architects of the Master Universe.

2. Transcendental Recorders.

3. Other Transcendentalers.

4. Primary Eventuated Master Force Organizers.

5. Associate Transcendental Master Force Organizers.

God, as a superperson, eventuates; God, as a person, creates; God, as a
preperson, fragments; and such an Adjuster fragment of himself evolves the
spirit soul upon the material and mortal mind in accordance with the freewill
choosing of the personality which has been bestowed upon such a mortal creature
by the parental act of God as a Father.

V. FRAGMENTED ENTITIES OF DEITY. This order of living existence, originating in
the Universal Father, is best typified by the Thought Adjusters, though these
entities are by no means the only fragmentations of the prepersonal reality of
the First Source and Center. The functions of the other-than-Adjuster fragments
are manifold and little known. Fusion with an Adjuster or other such fragment
constitutes the creature a Father-fused being.

The fragmentations of the premind spirit of the Third Source and Center, though
hardly comparable to the Father fragments, should be here recorded. Such
entities differ very greatly from Adjusters; they do not as such dwell on
Spiritington, nor do they as such traverse the mind-gravity circuits; neither
do they indwell mortal creatures during the life in the flesh. They are not
prepersonal in the sense that the Adjusters are, but such fragments of premind
spirit are bestowed upon certain of the surviving mortals, and fusion therewith
constitutes them Spirit-fused mortals in contradistinction to Adjuster-fused
mortals.

Still more difficult of description is the individualized spirit of a Creator
Son, union with which constitutes the creature a Son-fused mortal. And there
are still other fragmentations of Deity.

VI. SUPERPERSONAL BEINGS. There is a vast host of other-than-personal beings of
divine origin and of manifold service in the universe of universes. Certain of
these beings are resident on the Paradise worlds of the Son; others, like the
superpersonal representatives of the Eternal Son, are encountered elsewhere.
They are for the most part unmentioned in these narratives, and it would be
quite futile to attempt their description to personal creatures.

VII. UNCLASSIFIED AND UNREVEALED ORDERS. During the present universe age it
would not be possible to place all beings, personal or otherwise, within
classifications pertaining to the present universe age; nor have all such
categories been revealed in these narratives; hence numerous orders have been
omitted from these lists. Consider the following:

The Consummator of Universe Destiny.

The Qualified Vicegerents of the Ultimate.

                                top of page - 334

The Unqualified Supervisors of the Supreme.

The Unrevealed Creative Agencies of the Ancients of Days.

Majeston of Paradise.

The Unnamed Reflectivator Liaisons of Majeston.

The Midsonite Orders of the Local Universes.

No especial significance need attach to the listing of these orders together
except that none of them appear in the Paradise classification as revealed
herein. These are the unclassified few; you have yet to learn of the unrevealed
many.

There are spirits: spirit entities, spirit presences, personal spirits,
prepersonal spirits, superpersonal spirits, spirit existences, spirit
personalities--but neither mortal language nor mortal intellect are adequate.
We may however state that there are no personalities of "pure mind"; no entity
has personality unless he is endowed with it by God who is spirit. Any mind
entity that is not associated with either spiritual or physical energy is not a
personality. But in the same sense that there are spirit personalities who have
mind there are mind personalities who have spirit. Majeston and his associates
are fairly good illustrations of mind-dominated beings, but there are better
illustrations of this type of personality unknown to you. There are even whole
unrevealed orders of such mind personalities, but they are always spirit
associated. Certain other unrevealed creatures are what might be termed mindal-
and physical-energy personalities. This type of being is nonresponsive to
spirit gravity but is nonetheless a true personality--is within the Father's
circuit.

These papers do not--cannot--even begin to exhaust the story of the living
creatures, creators, eventuators, and still-otherwise-existent beings who live
and worship and serve in the swarming universes of time and in the central
universe of eternity. You mortals are persons; hence we can describe beings who
are personalized, but how could an absonitized being ever be explained to you?

2. THE UVERSA PERSONALITY REGISTER

The divine family of living beings is registered on Uversa in seven grand
divisions:

1. The Paradise Deities.

2. The Supreme Spirits.

3. The Trinity-origin Beings.

4. The Sons of God.

5. Personalities of the Infinite Spirit.

6. The Universe Power Directors.

7. The Corps of Permanent Citizenship.

These groups of will creatures are divided into numerous classes and minor
subdivisions. The presentation of this classification of the personalities of
the grand universe is however chiefly concerned in setting forth those orders
of intelligent beings who have been revealed in these narratives, most of whom
will be encountered in the ascendant experience of the mortals of time on their
progressive climb to Paradise. The following listings make no mention of vast
orders of universe beings who carry forward their work apart from the mortal
ascension scheme.

                                top of page - 335

1. The Universal Father.

2. The Eternal Son.

3. The Infinite Spirit.

1. The Seven Master Spirits.

2. The Seven Supreme Executives.

3. The Seven Groups of Reflective Spirits.

4. The Reflective Image Aids.

5. The Seven Spirits of the Circuits.

6. Local Universe Creative Spirits.

7. Adjutant Mind-Spirits.

1. Trinitized Secrets of Supremacy.

2. Eternals of Days.

3. Ancients of Days.

4. Perfections of Days.

5. Recents of Days.

6. Unions of Days.

7. Faithfuls of Days.

8. Trinity Teacher Sons.

9. Perfectors of Wisdom.

10. Divine Counselors.

11. Universal Censors.

12. Inspired Trinity Spirits.

13. Havona Natives.

14. Paradise Citizens.

A. Descending Sons.

1. Creator Sons--Michaels.

2. Magisterial Sons--Avonals.

3. Trinity Teacher Sons--Daynals.

4. Melchizedek Sons.

5. Vorondadek Sons.

6. Lanonandek Sons.

7. Life Carrier Sons.

B. Ascending Sons.

1. Father-fused Mortals.

2. Son-fused Mortals.

3. Spirit-fused Mortals.

4. Evolutionary Seraphim.

5. Ascending Material Sons.

6. Translated Midwayers.

7. Personalized Adjusters.

                                top of page - 336

C. Trinitized Sons.

1. Mighty Messengers.

2. Those High in Authority.

3. Those without Name and Number.

4. Trinitized Custodians.

5. Trinitized Ambassadors.

6. Celestial Guardians.

7. High Son Assistants.

8. Ascender-trinitized Sons.

9. Paradise-Havona-trinitized Sons.

10. Trinitized Sons of Destiny.

A. Higher Personalities of the Infinite Spirit.

1. Solitary Messengers.

2. Universe Circuit Supervisors.

3. Census Directors.

4. Personal Aids of the Infinite Spirit.

5. Associate Inspectors.

6. Assigned Sentinels.

7. Graduate Guides.

B. The Messenger Hosts of Space.

1. Havona Servitals.

2. Universal Conciliators.

3. Technical Advisers.

4. Custodians of Records on Paradise.

5. Celestial Recorders.

6. Morontia Companions.

7. Paradise Companions.

C. The Ministering Spirits.

1. Supernaphim.

2. Seconaphim.

3. Tertiaphim.

4. Omniaphim.

5. Seraphim.

6. Cherubim and Sanobim.

7. Midwayers.

A. The Seven Supreme Power Directors.

B. Supreme Power Centers.

1. Supreme Center Supervisors.

2. Havona Centers.

3. Superuniverse Centers.

4. Local Universe Centers.

5. Constellation Centers.

6. System Centers.

7. Unclassified Centers.

                                top of page - 337

C. Master Physical Controllers.

1. Associate Power Directors.

2. Mechanical Controllers.

3. Energy Transformers.

4. Energy Transmitters.

5. Primary Associators.

6. Secondary Dissociators.

7. Frandalanks and Chronoldeks.

D. Morontia Power Supervisors.

1. Circuit Regulators.

2. System Co-ordinators.

3. Planetary Custodians.

4. Combined Controllers.

5. Liaison Stabilizers.

6. Selective Assorters.

7. Associate Registrars.

1. The Planetary Midwayers.

2. The Adamic Sons of the Systems.

3. The Constellation Univitatia.

4. The Local Universe Susatia.

5. Spirit-fused Mortals of the Local Universes.

6. The Superuniverse Abandonters.

7. Son-fused Mortals of the Superuniverses.

8. The Havona Natives.

9. Natives of the Paradise Spheres of the Spirit.

10. Natives of the Father's Paradise Spheres.

11. The Created Citizens of Paradise.

12. Adjuster-fused Mortal Citizens of Paradise.

This is the working classification of the personalities of the universes as
they are of record on the headquarters world of Uversa.

COMPOSITE PERSONALITY GROUPS. There are on Uversa the records of numerous
additional groups of intelligent beings, beings that are also closely related
to the organization and administration of the grand universe. Among such orders
are the following three composite personality groups:

A. The Paradise Corps of the Finality.

1. The Corps of Mortal Finaliters.

2. The Corps of Paradise Finaliters.

3. The Corps of Trinitized Finaliters.

4. The Corps of Conjoint Trinitized Finaliters.

5. The Corps of Havona Finaliters.

6. The Corps of Transcendental Finaliters.

7. The Corps of Unrevealed Sons of Destiny.

The Mortal Corps of the Finality is dealt with in the next and final paper of
this series.

                                top of page - 338

B. The Universe Aids.

1. Bright and Morning Stars.

2. Brilliant Evening Stars.

3. Archangels.

4. Most High Assistants.

5. High Commissioners.

6. Celestial Overseers.

7. Mansion World Teachers.

On all headquarters worlds of both local and superuniverses, provision is made
for these beings who are engaged in specific missions for the Creator Sons, the
local universe rulers. We welcome these Universe Aids on Uversa, but we have no
jurisdiction over them. Such emissaries prosecute their work and carry on their
observations under authority of the Creator Sons. Their activities are more
fully described in the narrative of your local universe.

C. The Seven Courtesy Colonies.

1. Star Students.

2. Celestial Artisans.

3. Reversion Directors.

4. Extension-school Instructors.

5. The Various Reserve Corps.

6. Student Visitors.

7. Ascending Pilgrims.

These seven groups of beings will be found thus organized and governed on all
headquarters worlds from the local systems up to the capitals of the
superuniverses, particularly the latter. The capitals of the seven
superuniverses are the meeting places for almost all classes and orders of
intelligent beings. With the exception of numerous groups of Paradise-Havoners,
here the will creatures of every phase of existence may be observed and
studied.

3. THE COURTESY COLONIES

The seven courtesy colonies sojourn on the architectural spheres for a longer
or shorter time while engaged in the furtherance of their missions and in the
execution of their special assignments. Their work may be described as follows:

1. The Star Students, the celestial astronomers, choose to work on spheres like
Uversa because such specially constructed worlds are unusually favorable for
their observations and calculations. Uversa is favorably situated for the work
of this colony, not only because of its central location, but also because
there are no gigantic living or dead suns near at hand to disturb the energy
currents. These students are not in any manner organically connected with the
affairs of the superuniverse; they are merely guests.

The astronomical colony of Uversa contains individuals from many near-by
realms, from the central universe, and even from Norlatiadek. Any being on any
world in any system of any universe may become a star student, may aspire to
join some corps of celestial astronomers. The only requisites are: continuing
life and sufficient knowledge of the worlds of space, especially their physical
laws of evolution and control. Star students are not required to serve
eternally in this

                                top of page - 339

corps, but no one admitted to this group may withdraw under one millennium of
Uversa time.

The star-observer colony of Uversa now numbers over one million. These
astronomers come and go, though some remain for comparatively long periods.
They carry on their work with the aid of a multitude of mechanical instruments
and physical appliances; they are also greatly assisted by the Solitary
Messengers and other spirit explorers. These celestial astronomers make
constant use of the living energy transformers and transmitters, as well as of
the reflective personalities, in their work of star study and space survey.
They study all forms and phases of space material and energy manifestations,
and they are just as much interested in force function as in stellar phenomena;
nothing in all space escapes their scrutiny.

Similar astronomer colonies are to be found on the sector headquarters worlds
of the superuniverse as well as on the architectural capitals of the local
universes and their administrative subdivisions. Except on Paradise, knowledge
is not inherent; understanding of the physical universe is largely dependent on
observation and research.

2. The Celestial Artisans serve throughout the seven superuniverses. Ascending
mortals have their initial contact with these groups in the morontia career of
the local universe in connection with which these artisans will be more fully
discussed.

3. The Reversion Directors are the promoters of relaxation and humor--reversion
to past memories. They are of great service in the practical operation of the
ascending scheme of mortal progression, especially during the earlier phases of
morontia transition and spirit experience. Their story belongs to the narrative
of the mortal career in the local universe.

4. Extension-School Instructors. The next higher residential world of the
ascendant career always maintains a strong corps of teachers on the world just
below, a sort of preparatory school for the progressing residents of that
sphere; this is a phase of the ascendant scheme for advancing the pilgrims of
time. These schools, their methods of instruction and examinations, are wholly
unlike anything which you essay to conduct on Urantia.

The entire ascendant plan of mortal progression is characterized by the
practice of giving out to other beings new truth and experience just as soon as
acquired. You work your way through the long school of Paradise attainment by
serving as teachers to those pupils just behind you in the scale of
progression.

5. The Various Reserve Corps. Vast reserves of beings not under our immediate
supervision are mobilized on Uversa as the reserve-corps colony. There are
seventy primary divisions of this colony on Uversa, and it is a liberal
education to be permitted to spend a season with these extraordinary
personalities. Similar general reserves are maintained on Salvington and other
universe capitals; they are dispatched on active service on the requisition of
their respective group directors.

6. The Student Visitors. From all the universe a constant stream of celestial
visitors pours through the various headquarters worlds. As individuals and as
classes these various types of beings flock in upon us as observers, exchange
pupils, and student helpers. On Uversa, at present, there are over one billion

                                top of page - 340

persons in this courtesy colony. Some of these visitors may tarry a day, others
may remain a year, all dependent on the nature of their mission. This colony
contains almost every class of universe beings except Creator personalities and
morontia mortals.

Morontia mortals are student visitors only within the confines of the local
universe of their origin. They may visit in a superuniverse capacity only after
they have attained spirit status. Fully one half of our visitor colony consists
of "stopovers," beings enroute elsewhere who pause to visit the Orvonton
capital. These personalities may be executing a universe assignment, or they
may be enjoying a period of leisure--freedom from assignment. The privilege of
intrauniverse travel and observation is a part of the career of all ascending
beings. The human desire to travel and observe new peoples and worlds will be
fully gratified during the long and eventful climb to Paradise through the
local, super-, and central universes.

7. The Ascending Pilgrims. As the ascending pilgrims are assigned to various
services in connection with their Paradise progression, they are domiciled as a
courtesy colony on the various headquarters spheres. While functioning here and
there throughout a superuniverse, such groups are largely self-governing. They
are an ever-shifting colony embracing all orders of evolutionary mortals and
their ascending associates.

4. THE ASCENDING MORTALS

While the mortal survivors of time and space are denominated ascending pilgrims
when accredited for the progressive ascent to Paradise, these evolutionary
creatures occupy such an important place in these narratives that we here
desire to present a synopsis of the following seven stages of the ascending
universe career:

1. Planetary Mortals.

2. Sleeping Survivors.

3. Mansion World Students.

4. Morontia Progressors.

5. Superuniverse Wards.

6. Havona Pilgrims.

7. Paradise Arrivals.

The following narrative presents the universe career of an Adjuster-indwelt
mortal. The Son- and Spirit-fused mortals share portions of this career, but we
have elected to tell this story as it pertains to the Adjuster-fused mortals,
for such a destiny may be anticipated by all of the human races of Urantia.

1. Planetary Mortals. Mortals are all animal-origin evolutionary beings of
ascendant potential. In origin, nature, and destiny these various groups and
types of human beings are not wholly unlike the Urantia peoples. The human
races of each world receive the same ministry of the Sons of God and enjoy the
presence of the ministering spirits of time. After natural death all types of
ascenders fraternize as one morontia family on the mansion worlds.

                                top of page - 341

2. Sleeping Survivors. All mortals of survival status, in the custody of
personal guardians of destiny, pass through the portals of natural death and,
on the third period, personalize on the mansion worlds. Those accredited beings
who have, for any reason, been unable to attain that level of intelligence
mastery and endowment of spirituality which would entitle them to personal
guardians, cannot thus immediately and directly go to the mansion worlds. Such
surviving souls must rest in unconscious sleep until the judgment day of a new
epoch, a new dispensation, the coming of a Son of God to call the rolls of the
age and adjudicate the realm, and this is the general practice throughout all
Nebadon. It was said of Christ Michael that, when he ascended on high at the
conclusion of his work on earth, "He led a great multitude of captives." And
these captives were the sleeping survivors from the days of Adam to the day of
the Master's resurrection on Urantia.

The passing of time is of no moment to sleeping mortals; they are wholly
unconscious and oblivious to the length of their rest. On reassembly of
personality at the end of an age, those who have slept five thousand years will
react no differently than those who have rested five days. Aside from this time
delay these survivors pass on through the ascension regime identically with
those who avoid the longer or shorter sleep of death.

These dispensational classes of world pilgrims are utilized for group morontia
activities in the work of the local universes. There is a great advantage in
the mobilization of such enormous groups; they are thus kept together for long
periods of effective service.

3. Mansion World Students. All surviving mortals who reawaken on the mansion
worlds belong to this class.

The physical body of mortal flesh is not a part of the reassembly of the
sleeping survivor; the physical body has returned to dust. The seraphim of
assignment sponsors the new body, the morontia form, as the new life vehicle
for the immortal soul and for the indwelling of the returned Adjuster. The
Adjuster is the custodian of the spirit transcript of the mind of the sleeping
survivor. The assigned seraphim is the keeper of the surviving identity--the
immortal soul--as far as it has evolved. And when these two, the Adjuster and
the seraphim, reunite their personality trusts, the new individual constitutes
the resurrection of the old personality, the survival of the evolving morontia
identity of the soul. Such a reassociation of soul and Adjuster is quite
properly called a resurrection, a reassembly of personality factors; but even
this does not entirely explain the reappearance of the surviving personality.
Though you will probably never understand the fact of such an inexplicable
transaction, you will sometime experientially know the truth of it if you do
not reject the plan of mortal survival.

The plan of initial mortal detention on seven worlds of progressive training is
nearly universal in Orvonton. In each local system of approximately one
thousand inhabited planets there are seven mansion worlds, usually satellites
or subsatellites of the system capital. They are the receiving worlds for the
majority of ascending mortals.

Sometimes all training worlds of mortal residence are called universe
"mansions," and it was to such spheres that Jesus alluded when he said: "In my
Father's house are many mansions." From here on, within a given group of
spheres like the mansion worlds, ascenders will progress individually from one

                                top of page - 342

sphere to another and from one phase of life to another, but they will always
advance from one stage of universe study to another in class formation.

4. Morontia Progressors. From the mansion worlds on up through the spheres of
the system, constellation, and the universe, mortals are classed as morontia
progressors; they are traversing the transition spheres of mortal ascension. As
the ascending mortals progress from the lower to the higher of the morontia
worlds, they serve on countless assignments in association with their teachers
and in company with their more advanced and senior brethren.

Morontia progression pertains to continuing advancement of intellect, spirit,
and personality form. Survivors are still three-natured beings. Throughout the
entire morontia experience they are wards of the local universe. The regime of
the superuniverse does not function until the spirit career begins.

Mortals acquire real spirit identity just before they leave the local universe
headquarters for the receiving worlds of the minor sectors of the
superuniverse. Passing from the final morontia stage to the first or lowest
spirit status is but a slight transition. The mind, personality, and character
are unchanged by such an advance; only does the form undergo modification. But
the spirit form is just as real as the morontia body, and it is equally
discernible.

Before departing from their native local universes for the superuniverse
receiving worlds, the mortals of time are recipients of spirit confirmation
from the Creator Son and the local universe Mother Spirit. From this point on,
the status of the ascending mortal is forever settled. Superuniverse wards have
never been known to go astray. Ascending seraphim are also advanced in angelic
standing at the time of their departure from the local universes.

5. Superuniverse Wards. All ascenders arriving on the training worlds of the
superuniverses become the wards of the Ancients of Days; they have traversed
the morontia life of the local universe and are now accredited spirits. As
young spirits they begin the ascension of the superuniverse system of training
and culture, extending from the receiving spheres of their minor sector in
through the study worlds of the ten major sectors and on to the higher cultural
spheres of the superuniverse headquarters.

There are three orders of student spirits in accordance with their sojourn upon
the minor sector, major sectors, and the superuniverse headquarters worlds of
spirit progression. As morontia ascenders studied and worked on the worlds of
the local universe, so spirit ascenders continue to master new worlds while
they practice at giving out to others that which they have imbibed at the
experiential founts of wisdom. But going to school as a spirit being in the
superuniverse career is very unlike anything that has ever entered the
imaginative realms of the material mind of man.

Before leaving the superuniverse for Havona, these ascending spirits receive
the same thorough course in superuniverse management that they received during
their morontia experience in local universe supervision. Before spirit mortals
reach Havona, their chief study, but not exclusive occupation, is the mastery
of local and superuniverse administration. The reason for all of this
experience is not now fully apparent, but no doubt such training is wise and
necessary in view of their possible future destiny as members of the Corps of
the Finality.

The superuniverse regime is not the same for all ascending mortals. They
receive the same general education, but special groups and classes are carried

                                top of page - 343

through special courses of instruction and are put through specific courses of
training.

6. Havona Pilgrims. When spirit development is complete, even though not
replete, then the surviving mortal prepares for the long flight to Havona, the
haven of evolutionary spirits. On earth you were a creature of flesh and blood;
through the local universe you were a morontia being; through the superuniverse
you were an evolving spirit; with your arrival on the receiving worlds of
Havona your spiritual education begins in reality and in earnest; your eventual
appearance on Paradise will be as a perfected spirit.

The journey from the superuniverse headquarters to the Havona receiving spheres
is always made alone. From now on no more class or group instruction will be
administered. You are through with the technical and administrative training of
the evolutionary worlds of time and space. Now begins your personal education,
your individual spiritual training. From first to last, throughout all Havona,
the instruction is personal and threefold in nature: intellectual, spiritual,
and experiential.

The first act of your Havona career will be to recognize and thank your
transport seconaphim for the long and safe journey. Then you are presented to
those beings who will sponsor your early Havona activities. Next you go to
register your arrival and prepare your message of thanksgiving and adoration
for dispatch to the Creator Son of your local universe, the universe Father who
made possible your sonship career. This concludes the formalities of the Havona
arrival; whereupon you are accorded a long period of leisure for free
observation, and this affords opportunity for looking up your friends, fellows,
and associates of the long ascension experience. You may also consult the
broadcasts to ascertain who of your fellow pilgrims have departed for Havona
since the time of your leaving Uversa.

The fact of your arrival on the receiving worlds of Havona will be duly
transmitted to the headquarters of your local universe and personally conveyed
to your seraphic guardian, wherever that seraphim may chance to be.

The ascendant mortals have been thoroughly trained in the affairs of the
evolutionary worlds of space; now they begin their long and profitable contact
with the created spheres of perfection. What a preparation for some future work
is afforded by this combined, unique, and extraordinary experience! But I
cannot tell you about Havona; you must see these worlds to appreciate their
glory or to understand their grandeur.

7. Paradise Arrivals. On reaching Paradise with residential status, you begin
the progressive course in divinity and absonity. Your residence on Paradise
signifies that you have found God, and that you are to be mustered into the
Mortal Corps of the Finality. Of all the creatures of the grand universe, only
those who are Father fused are mustered into the Mortal Corps of the Finality.
Only such individuals take the finaliter oath. Other beings of Paradise
perfection or attainment may be temporarily attached to this finality corps,
but they are not of eternal assignment to the unknown and unrevealed mission of
this accumulating host of the evolutionary and perfected veterans of time and
space.

Paradise arrivals are accorded a period of freedom, after which they begin
their associations with the seven groups of the primary supernaphim. They are
designated Paradise graduates when they have finished their course with the
conductors of worship and then, as finaliters, are assigned on observational
and

                                top of page - 344

co-operative service to the ends of the far-flung creation. As yet there seems
to be no specific or settled employment for the Mortal Corps of Finaliters,
though they serve in many capacities on worlds settled in light and life.

If there should be no future or unrevealed destiny for the Mortal Corps of the
Finality, the present assignment of these ascendant beings would be altogether
adequate and glorious. Their present destiny wholly justifies the universal
plan of evolutionary ascent. But the future ages of the evolution of the
spheres of outer space will undoubtedly further elaborate, and with more
repleteness divinely illuminate, the wisdom and loving-kindness of the Gods in
the execution of their divine plan of human survival and mortal ascension.

This narrative, together with what has been revealed to you and with what you
may acquire in connection with instruction respecting your own world, presents
an outline of the career of an ascending mortal. The story varies considerably
in the different superuniverses, but this recital affords a glimpse of the
average plan of mortal progression as it is operative in the local universe of
Nebadon and in the seventh segment of the grand universe, the superuniverse of
Orvonton.

[Sponsored by a Mighty Messenger from Uversa.]

                                top of page - 345

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   The Universe   ³   The Corps Of    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Po...       ³       Th...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
