               Urantia Book Paper 31 The Corps Of The Finality
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Paper 31 The Corps Of The Finality

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE Corps of Mortal Finaliters represents the present known destination of the
ascending Adjuster-fused mortals of time. But there are other groups who are
also assigned to this corps. The primary finaliter corps is composed of the
following:

1. Havona Natives.

2. Gravity Messengers.

3. Glorified Mortals.

4. Adopted Seraphim.

5. Glorified Material Sons.

6. Glorified Midway Creatures.

These six groups of glorified beings compose this unique body of eternal
destiny. We think we know their future work, but we are not certain. While the
Corps of the Mortal Finality is mobilizing on Paradise, and while they now so
extensively minister to the universes of space and administer the worlds
settled in light and life, their future destination must be the now-organizing
universes of outer space. At least that is the conjecture of Uversa.

The corps is organized in accordance with the working associations of the
worlds of space and in keeping with the associative experience acquired
throughout the long and eventful ascendant career. All the ascendant creatures
admitted to this corps are received in equality, but this exalted equality in
no way abrogates individuality or destroys personal identity. We can
immediately discern, in communicating with a finaliter, whether he is an
ascendant mortal, Havona native, adopted seraphim, midway creature, or Material
Son.

During the present universe age the finaliters return to serve in the universes
of time. They are assigned to labor successively in the different
superuniverses and never in their native superuniverses until after they have
served in all the other six supercreations. Thus may they acquire the sevenfold
concept of the Supreme Being.

One or more companies of the mortal finaliters are constantly in service on
Urantia. There is no domain of universe service to which they are not assigned;
they function universally and with alternating and equal periods of assigned
duty and free service.

We have no idea as to the nature of the future organization of this
extraordinary group, but the finaliters are now wholly a self-governing body.
They choose their own permanent, periodic, and assignment leaders and
directors. No outside influence can ever be brought to bear upon their
policies, and their oath of allegiance is only to the Paradise Trinity.

                                top of page - 346

The finaliters maintain their own headquarters on Paradise, in the
superuniverses, in the local universes, and on all the divisional capitals.
They are a separate order of evolutionary creation. We do not directly manage
them or control them, and yet they are absolutely loyal and always co-operative
with all our plans. They are indeed the accumulating tried and true souls of
time and space--the evolutionary salt of the universe--and they are forever
proof against evil and secure against sin.

1. THE HAVONA NATIVES

Many of the Havona natives who serve as teachers in the pilgrim-training
schools of the central universe become greatly attached to the ascending
mortals and still more intrigued with the future work and destiny of the Corps
of Mortal Finaliters. On Paradise there is maintained, at the administrative
headquarters of the corps, a registry for Havona volunteers presided over by
the associate of Grandfanda. Today, you will find millions upon millions of
Havona natives upon this waiting list. These perfect beings of direct and
divine creation are of great assistance to the Mortal Corps of Finality, and
they will undoubtedly be of even greater service in the far-distant future.
They provide the viewpoint of one born in perfection and divine repleteness.
The finaliters thus embrace both phases of experiential existence--perfect and
perfected.

Havona natives must achieve certain experiential developments in liaison with
evolutionary beings which will create reception capacity for the bestowal of a
fragment of the spirit of the Universal Father. The Mortal Finaliter Corps has
as permanent members only such beings as have been fused with the spirit of the
First Source and Center, or who, like the Gravity Messengers, innately embody
this spirit of God the Father.

The inhabitants of the central universe are received into the corps in the
ratio of one in a thousand--a finaliter company. The corps is organized for
temporary service in companies of one thousand, the ascendant creatures
numbering 997 to one Havona native and one Gravity Messenger. Finaliters are
thus mobilized in companies, but the finality oath is administered
individually. It is an oath of sweeping implications and eternal import. The
Havona native takes the same oath and becomes forever attached to the corps.

The Havona recruits follow the company of their assignment; wherever the group
goes, they go. And you should see their enthusiasm in the new work of the
finaliters. The possibility of attaining the Corps of the Finality is one of
the superb thrills of Havona; the possibility of becoming a finaliter is one of
the supreme adventures of these perfect races.

The Havona natives are also received, in the same ratio, into the Corps of
Conjoint Trinitized Finaliters on Vicegerington and into the Corps of
Transcendental Finaliters on Paradise. The Havona citizens regard these three
destinies as constituting the supreme goals of their supernal careers, together
with their possible admission to the Corps of Havona Finaliters.

2. GRAVITY MESSENGERS

Wherever and whenever Gravity Messengers are functioning, the finaliters are in
command. All Gravity Messengers are under the exclusive jurisdiction of
Grandfanda, and they are assigned only to the primary Corps of the Finality.

                                top of page - 347

They are invaluable to the finaliters even now, and they will be
all-serviceable in the eternal future. No other group of intelligent creatures
possesses such a personalized messenger corps able to transcend time and space.
Similar types of messenger-recorders attached to other finaliter corps are not
personalized; they are absonitized.

Gravity Messengers hail from Divinington, and they are modified and
personalized Adjusters, but no one of our Uversa group will undertake to
explain the nature of one of these messengers. We know they are highly personal
beings, divine, intelligent, and touchingly understanding, but we do not
comprehend their timeless technique of traversing space. They seem to be
competent to utilize any and all energies, circuits, and even gravity.
Finaliters of the mortal corps cannot defy time and space, but they have
associated with them and subject to their command all but infinite spirit
personalities who can. We presume to call Gravity Messengers personalities, but
in reality they are superspirit beings, unlimited and boundless personalities.
They are of an entirely different order of personality as compared with
Solitary Messengers.

Gravity Messengers may be attached to a finaliter company in unlimited numbers,
but only one messenger, the chief of his fellows, is mustered into the Mortal
Corps of the Finality. This chief however has assigned to him a permanent staff
of 999 fellow messengers, and as occasion may require, he may call upon the
reserves of the order for assistants in unlimited numbers.

Gravity Messengers and glorified mortal finaliters achieve a touching and
profound affection for one another; they have much in common: One is a direct
personalization of a fragment of the Universal Father, the other a creature
personality existent in the surviving immortal soul fused with a fragment of
the same Universal Father, the spirit Thought Adjuster.

3. GLORIFIED MORTALS

Ascendant Adjuster-fused mortals compose the bulk of the primary Corps of the
Finality. Together with the adopted and glorified seraphim they usually
constitute 990 in each finaliter company. The proportion of mortals and angels
in any one group varies, though the mortals far outnumber the seraphim. The
Havona natives, glorified Material Sons, glorified midway creatures, the
Gravity Messengers, and the unknown and missing member make up only one per
cent of the corps; each company of one thousand finaliters has places for just
ten of these nonmortal and nonseraphic personalities.

We of Uversa do not know the "finality destiny" of the ascendant mortals of
time. At present they reside on Paradise and temporarily serve in the Corps of
Light and Life, but such a tremendous course of ascendant training and such
lengthy universe discipline must be designed to qualify them for even greater
tests of trust and more sublime services of responsibility.

Notwithstanding that these ascendant mortals have attained Paradise, have been
mustered into the Corps of the Finality, and have been sent back in large
numbers to participate in the conduct of local universes and to assist in the
administration of superuniverse affairs--in the face of even this apparent
destiny, there remains the significant fact that they are of record as only
sixth-stage spirits. There undoubtedly remains one more step in the career of
the Mortal

                                top of page - 348

Corps of the Finality. We do not know the nature of that step, but we have
taken cognizance of, and here call attention to, three facts:

1. We know from the records that mortals are spirits of the first order during
their sojourn in the minor sectors, and that they advance to the second order
when translated to the major sectors, and to the third when they go forward to
the central training worlds of the superuniverse. Mortals become quartan or
graduate spirits after reaching the sixth circle of Havona and become spirits
of the fifth order when they find the Universal Father. They subsequently
attain the sixth stage of spirit existence upon taking the oath that musters
them forever into the eternity assignment of the Corps of the Mortal Finality.

We observe that spirit classification, or designation, has been determined by
actual advancement from one realm of universe service to another realm of
universe service or from one universe to another universe; and we surmise that
the bestowal of seventh-spirit classification upon the Mortal Corps of the
Finality will be simultaneous with their advancement to eternal assignment for
service on hitherto unrecorded and unrevealed spheres and concomitant with
their attainment of God the Supreme. But aside from these bold conjectures, we
really know no more about all this than you do; our knowledge of the mortal
career does not go beyond present Paradise destiny.

2. The mortal finaliters have fully complied with the injunction of the ages,
"Be you perfect"; they have ascended the universal path of mortal attainment;
they have found God, and they have been duly inducted into the Corps of the
Finality. Such beings have attained the present limit of spirit progression but
not finality of ultimate spirit status. They have achieved the present limit of
creature perfection but not finality of creature service. They have experienced
the fullness of Deity worship but not finality of experiential Deity
attainment.

3. The glorified mortals of the Paradise Corps of Finality are ascendant beings
in possession of experiential knowledge of every step of the actuality and
philosophy of the fullest possible life of intelligent existence, while during
the ages of this ascent from the lowest material worlds to the spiritual
heights of Paradise, these surviving creatures have been trained to the limits
of their capacity respecting every detail of every divine principle of the just
and efficient, as well as merciful and patient, administration of all the
universal creation of time and space.

We deem that human beings are entitled to share our opinions, and that you are
free to conjecture with us respecting the mystery of the ultimate destiny of
the Paradise Corps of Finality. It seems evident to us that the present
assignments of the perfected evolutionary creatures partake of the nature of
postgraduate courses in universe understanding and superuniverse
administration; and we all ask, "Why should the Gods be so concerned in so
thoroughly training surviving mortals in the technique of universe management?"

4. ADOPTED SERAPHIM

Many of the faithful seraphic guardians of mortals are permitted to go through
the ascendant career with their human wards, and many of these guardian angels,
after becoming Father fused, join their subjects in taking the finaliter oath
of eternity and forever accept the destiny of their mortal associates. Angels
who pass through the ascending experience of mortal beings may share the

                                top of page - 349

destiny of human nature; they may equally and eternally be mustered into this
Corps of the Finality. Large numbers of the adopted and glorified seraphim are
attached to the various nonmortal finaliter corps.

5. GLORIFIED MATERIAL SONS

There is provision in the universes of time and space whereby the Adamic
citizens of the local systems, when long delayed in receiving planetary
assignment, may initiate a petition for release from permanent-citizenship
status. And if granted, they join the ascending pilgrims on the universe
capitals and thence proceed onward to Paradise and the Corps of the Finality.

When an advanced evolutionary world attains the later eras of the age of light
and life, the Material Sons, the Planetary Adam and Eve, may elect to humanize,
receive Adjusters, and embark upon the evolutionary course of universe ascent
leading to the Corps of Mortal Finaliters. Certain of these Material Sons have
partially failed or technically defaulted in their mission as biologic
accelerators, as Adam did on Urantia; and then are they compelled to take the
natural course of the peoples of the realm, receive Adjusters, pass through
death, and progress by faith through the ascendant regime, subsequently
attaining Paradise and the Corps of the Finality.

These Material Sons are not to be found in many finaliter companies. Their
presence lends great potential to the possibilities of high service for such a
group, and they are invariably chosen as its leaders. If both of the Edenic
pair are attached to the same group, they are usually permitted to function
jointly, as one personality. Such ascendant pairs are far more successful in
the adventure of trinitizing than are the ascendant mortals.

6. GLORIFIED MIDWAY CREATURES

On many planets the midway creatures are produced in large numbers, but they
seldom tarry on their native world subsequent to its being settled in light and
life. Then, or soon thereafter, they are released from permanent-citizenship
status and start on the ascension to Paradise, passing through the morontia
worlds, the superuniverse, and Havona in company with the mortals of time and
space.

The midway creatures from various universes differ greatly in origin and
nature, but they are all destined to one or another of the Paradise finality
corps. The secondary midwayers are all eventually Adjuster fused and are
mustered into the mortal corps. Many finaliter companies have one of these
glorified beings in their group.

7. THE EVANGELS OF LIGHT

At the present time every finaliter company numbers 999 personalities of oath
status, permanent members. The vacant place is occupied by the chief of
attached Evangels of Light assigned on any single mission. But these beings are
only transient members of the corps.

Any celestial personality assigned to the service of any finaliter corps is
denominated an Evangel of Light. These beings do not take the finaliter oath,
and

                                top of page - 350

though subject to the corps organization they are not of permanent attachment.
This group may embrace Solitary Messengers, supernaphim, seconaphim, Paradise
Citizens, or their trinitized offspring--any being required in the prosecution
of a transient finaliter assignment. Whether or not the corps is to have these
beings attached to the eternal mission, we do not know. At the conclusion of
attachment these Evangels of Light resume their former status.

As the Mortal Corps of the Finality is at present constituted, there are just
six classes of permanent members. The finaliters, as might be expected, engage
in much speculation as to the identity of their future comrades, but there is
little agreement among them.

We of Uversa often conjecture respecting the identity of the seventh group of
finaliters. We entertain many ideas, embracing possible assignment of some of
the accumulating corps of the numerous trinitized groups on Paradise,
Vicegerington, and the inner Havona circuit. It is even conjectured that the
Corps of the Finality may be permitted to trinitize many of their assistants in
the work of universe administration in the event they are destined to the
service of universes now in the making.

One of us holds the opinion that this vacant place in the corps will be filled
by some type of being of origin in the new universe of their future service;
the other inclines to the belief that this place will be occupied by some type
of Paradise personality not yet created, eventuated, or trinitized. But we will
most likely await the entrance of the finaliters upon their seventh stage of
spirit attainment before we really know.

8. THE TRANSCENDENTALERS

Part of the perfected mortal's experience on Paradise as a finaliter consists
in the effort to achieve comprehension of the nature and function of more than
one thousand groups of the transcendental supercitizens of Paradise, eventuated
beings of absonite attributes. In their association with these
superpersonalities, the ascendant finaliters receive great assistance from the
helpful guidance of numerous orders of transcendental ministers who are
assigned to the task of introducing the evolved finaliters to their new
Paradise brethren. The entire order of the Transcendentalers live in the west
of Paradise in a vast area which they exclusively occupy.

In the discussion of Transcendentalers we are restricted, not only by the
limitations of human comprehension, but also by the terms of the mandate
governing these disclosures concerning the personalities of Paradise. These
beings are in no way connected with the mortal ascent to Havona. The vast host
of the Paradise Transcendentalers have nothing whatever to do with the affairs
of either Havona or the seven superuniverses, being concerned only with the
superadministration of the affairs of the master universe.

You, being a creature, can conceive of a Creator, but you can hardly comprehend
that there exists an enormous and diversified aggregation of intelligent beings
who are neither Creators nor creatures. These Transcendentalers create no
beings, neither were they ever created. In speaking of their origin, in order
to avoid using a new term--an arbitrary and meaningless designation--we deem it
best to say that Transcendentalers simply eventuate. The Deity Absolute may
well have been concerned in their origin and may be implicated in their
destiny,

                                top of page - 351

but these unique beings are not now dominated by the Deity Absolute. They are
subject to God the Ultimate, and their present Paradise sojourn is in every way
Trinity supervised and directed.

Although all mortals who attain Paradise frequently fraternize with the
Transcendentalers as they do with the Paradise Citizens, it develops that man's
first serious contact with a Transcendentaler occurs on that eventful occasion
when, as a member of a new finaliter group, the mortal ascender stands in the
finaliter receiving circle as the Trinity oath of eternity is administered by
the chief of Transcendentalers, the presiding head of the Architects of the
Master Universe.

9. ARCHITECTS OF THE MASTER UNIVERSE

The Architects of the Master Universe are the governing corps of the Paradise
Transcendentalers. This governing corps numbers 28,011 personalities possessing
master minds, superb spirits, and supernal absonites. The presiding officer of
this magnificent group, the senior Master Architect, is the co-ordinating head
of all Paradise intelligences below the level of Deity.

The sixteenth proscription of the mandate authorizing these narratives says:
"If deemed wise, the existence of the Architects of the Master Universe and
their associates may be disclosed, but their origin, nature, and destiny may
not be fully revealed." We may, however, inform you that these Master
Architects exist in seven levels of the absonite. These seven groups are
classified as follows:

1. The Paradise Level. Only the senior or first-eventuated Architect functions
on this highest level of the absonite. This ultimate personality--neither
Creator nor creature--eventuated in the dawn of eternity and now functions as
the exquisite co-ordinator of Paradise and its twenty-one worlds of associated
activities.

2. The Havona Level. The second Architect eventuation yielded three master
planners and absonite administrators, and they have always been devoted to the
co-ordination of the one billion perfect spheres of the central universe.
Paradise tradition asserts that these three Architects, with the counsel of the
pre-eventuated senior Architect, contributed to the planning of Havona, but we
really do not know.

3. The Superuniverse Level. The third absonite level embraces the seven Master
Architects of the seven superuniverses, who now, as a group, spend about equal
time in the company of the Seven Master Spirits on Paradise and with the Seven
Supreme Executives on the seven special worlds of the Infinite Spirit. They are
the superco-ordinators of the grand universe.

4. The Primary Space Level. This group numbers seventy Architects, and we
conjecture that they are concerned with the ultimate plans for the first
universe of outer space, now mobilizing beyond the borders of the present seven
superuniverses.

5. The Secondary Space Level. This fifth corps of Architects numbers 490, and
again we conjecture that they must be concerned with the second universe of
outer space, where already our physicists have detected definite energy
mobilizations.

                                top of page - 352

6. The Tertiary Space Level. This sixth group of Master Architects numbers
3,430, and we likewise infer that they may be occupied with the gigantic plans
for the third universe of outer space.

7. The Quartan Space Level. This, the final and largest corps, consists of
24,010 Master Architects, and if our former conjectures are valid, it must be
related to the fourth and last of the ever-increasing-sized universes of outer
space.

These seven groups of Master Architects total 28,011 universe planners. On
Paradise there is a tradition that far back in eternity there was attempted the
eventuation of the 28,012th Master Architect, but that this being failed to
absonitize, experiencing personality seizure by the Universal Absolute. It is
possible that the ascending series of the Master Architects attained the limit
of absonity in the 28,011th Architect, and that the 28,012th attempt
encountered the mathematical level of the presence of the Absolute. In other
words, at the 28,012th eventuation level the quality of absonity equivalated to
the level of the Universal and attained the value of the Absolute.

In their functional organization the three supervising Architects of Havona act
as associate assistants to the solitary Paradise Architect. The seven
Architects of the superuniverses act as co-ordinates of the three supervisors
of Havona. The seventy planners of the universes of the primary outer space
level are at present serving as associate assistants to the seven Architects of
the seven superuniverses.

The Architects of the Master Universe have at their disposal numerous groups of
assistants and helpers, including two vast orders of force organizers, the
primary eventuated and the associate transcendental. These Master Force
Organizers are not to be confused with the power directors, who are germane to
the grand universe.

All beings produced by the union of the children of time and eternity, such as
the trinitized offspring of the finaliters and the Paradise Citizens, become
wards of the Master Architects. But of all other creatures or entities revealed
as functioning in the present organized universes, only Solitary Messengers and
Inspired Trinity Spirits maintain any organic association with the
Transcendentalers and the Architects of the Master Universe.

The Master Architects contribute technical approval of the assignment of the
Creator Sons to their space sites for the organization of the local universes.
There is a very close association between the Master Architects and the
Paradise Creator Sons, and while this relationship is unrevealed, you have been
informed of the association of the Architects and the grand universe Supreme
Creators in the relationship of the first experiential Trinity. These two
groups, together with the evolving and experiential Supreme Being, constitute
the Trinity Ultimate of transcendental values and master universe meanings.

10. THE ULTIMATE ADVENTURE

The senior Master Architect has the oversight of the seven Corps of the
Finality, and they are:

I. The Corps of Mortal Finaliters.

2. The Corps of Paradise Finaliters.

3. The Corps of Trinitized Finaliters.

                                top of page - 353

4. The Corps of Conjoint Trinitized Finaliters.

5. The Corps of Havona Finaliters.

6. The Corps of Transcendental Finaliters.

7. The Corps of Unrevealed Sons of Destiny.

Each of these destiny corps has a presiding head, and the seven constitute the
Supreme Council of Destiny on Paradise; and during the present universe age
Grandfanda is the chief of this supreme body of universe assignment for the
children of ultimate destiny.

The gathering together of these seven finaliter corps signifies reality
mobilization of potentials, personalities, minds, spirits, absonites, and
experiential actualities that probably transcend even the future master
universe functions of the Supreme Being. These seven finaliter corps probably
signify the present activity of the Ultimate Trinity engaged in mustering the
forces of the finite and the absonite in preparation for inconceivable
developments in the universes of outer space. Nothing like this mobilization
has taken place since the near times of eternity when the Paradise Trinity
similarly mobilized the then existing personalities of Paradise and Havona and
commissioned them as administrators and rulers of the projected seven
superuniverses of time and space. The seven finaliter corps represent the
divinity response of the grand universe to the future needs of the undeveloped
potentials in the outer universes of future-eternal activities.

We venture the forecast of future and greater outer universes of inhabited
worlds, new spheres peopled with new orders of exquisite and unique beings, a
material universe sublime in its ultimacy, a vast creation lacking in only one
important detail--the presence of actual finite experience in the universal
life of ascendant existence. Such a universe will come into being under a
tremendous experiential handicap: the deprivation of participation in the
evolution of the Almighty Supreme. These outer universes will all enjoy the
matchless ministry and supernal overcontrol of the Supreme Being, but the very
fact of his active presence precludes their participation in the actualization
of the Supreme Deity.

During the present universe age the evolving personalities of the grand
universe suffer many difficulties due to the incomplete actualization of the
sovereignty of God the Supreme, but we are all sharing the unique experience of
his evolution. We evolve in him and he evolves in us. Sometime in the eternal
future the evolution of Supreme Deity will become a completed fact of universe
history, and the opportunity to participate in this wonderful experience will
have passed from the stage of cosmic action.

But those of us who have acquired this unique experience during the youth of
the universe will treasure it throughout all future eternity. And many of us
speculate that it may be the mission of the gradually accumulating reserves of
the ascendant and perfected mortals of the Corps of the Finality, in
association with the other six similarly recruiting corps, to administer these
outer universes in an effort to compensate their experiential deficiencies in
not having participated in the time-space evolution of the Supreme Being.

These deficiencies are inevitable on all levels of universe existence. During
the present universe age we of the higher levels of spiritual existences now
come down to administer the evolutionary universes and minister to the
ascending mortals, thus endeavoring to atone for their deficiencies in the
realities of the higher spiritual experience.

                                top of page - 354

But though we really know nothing about the plans of the Architects of the
Master Universe respecting these outer creations, nevertheless, of three things
we are certain:

1. There actually is a vast and new system of universes gradually organizing in
the domains of outer space. New orders of physical creations, enormous and
gigantic circles of swarming universes upon universes far out beyond the
present bounds of the peopled and organized creations, are actually visible
through your telescopes. At present, these outer creations are wholly physical;
they are apparently uninhabited and seem to be devoid of creature
administration.

2. For ages upon ages there continues the unexplained and wholly mysterious
Paradise mobilization of the perfected and ascendant beings of time and space,
in association with the six other finaliter corps.

3. Concomitantly with these transactions the Supreme Person of Deity is
powerizing as the almighty sovereign of the supercreations.

As we view this triune development, embracing creatures, universes, and Deity,
can we be criticized for anticipating that something new and unrevealed is
approaching culmination in the master universe? Is it not natural that we
should associate this agelong mobilization and organization of physical
universes on such a hitherto unknown scale and the personality emergence of the
Supreme Being with this stupendous scheme of upstepping the mortals of time to
divine perfection and with their subsequent mobilization on Paradise in the
Corps of the Finality--a designation and destiny enshrouded in universe
mystery? It is increasingly the belief of all Uversa that the assembling Corps
of the Finality are destined to some future service in the universes of outer
space, where we already are able to identify the clustering of at least seventy
thousand aggregations of matter, each of which is greater than any one of the
present superuniverses.

Evolutionary mortals are born on the planets of space, pass through the
morontia worlds, ascend the spirit universes, traverse the Havona spheres, find
God, attain Paradise, and are mustered into the primary Corps of the Finality,
therein to await the next assignment of universe service. There are six other
assembling finality corps, but Grandfanda, the first mortal ascender, presides
as Paradise chief of all orders of finaliters. And as we view this sublime
spectacle, we all exclaim: What a glorious destiny for the animal-origin
children of time, the material sons of space!

[Jointly sponsored by a Divine Counselor and One without Name and Number
authorized so to function by the Ancients of Days on Uversa.]

*    *    *    *    *

These thirty-one papers depicting the nature of Deity,

the reality of Paradise, the organization and working

of the central and superuniverses, the personalities of

the grand universe, and the high destiny of

evolutionary mortals, were sponsored, formulated, and

put into English by a high commission consisting of

twenty-four Orvonton administrators acting in

accordance with a mandate issued by the Ancients of

Days of Uversa directing that we should do this on

Urantia, 606 of Satania, in Norlatiadek of Nebadon, in

the year A.D. 1934.

                                top of page - 355

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART I: The Central and Super
 Universes : The Universal Father The Nature Of God The Attributes Of God God's
    Relation To The Universe God's Relation To The Individual The Eternal Son
Relation Of The Eternal Son To The Universe The Infinite Spirit Relation Of The
    Infinite Spirit To The Universe The Paradise Trinity The Eternal Isle Of
  Paradise The Universe Of Universes The Sacred Spheres Of Paradise The Central
And Divine Universe The Seven Superuniverses The Seven Master Spirits The Seven
    Supreme Spirit Groups The Supreme Trinity Personalities The Co-ordinate
  Trinity-origin Beings The Paradise Sons Of God The Paradise Creator Sons The
   Trinitized Sons Of God The Solitary Messengers Higher Personalities Of The
Infinite Spirit The Messenger Hosts Of Space Ministering Spirits Of The Central
    Universe Ministry Of The Primary Supernaphim Ministering Spirits Of The
Superuniverses The Universe Power Directors Personalities Of The Grand Universe
                            The Corps Of The Finality

        ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
        ³         //         ³                    ³        ³          ³
        ³ Personalities O... ³ Urantia Book PA... ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
        ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³            SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),             ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                  http://www.spiritweb.org                  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³            Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>             ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                            ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³       ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³   DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,   ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                         AUSTRALIA                          ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                            ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
