          Urantia Book Paper 33 Administration Of The Local Universe
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Paper 33 Administration Of The Local Universe

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

WHILE the Universal Father most certainly rules over his vast creation, he
functions in a local universe administration through the person of the Creator
Son. The Father does not otherwise personally function in the administrative
affairs of a local universe. These matters are intrusted to the Creator Son and
to the local universe Mother Spirit and to their manifold children. The plans,
policies, and administrative acts of the local universe are formed and executed
by this Son, who, in conjunction with his Spirit associate, delegates executive
power to Gabriel and jurisdictional authority to the Constellation Fathers,
System Sovereigns, and Planetary Princes.

1. MICHAEL OF NEBADON

Our Creator Son is the personification of the 611,121st original concept of
infinite identity of simultaneous origin in the Universal Father and the
Eternal Son. The Michael of Nebadon is the "only-begotten Son" personalizing
this 611,121st universal concept of divinity and infinity. His headquarters is
in the threefold mansion of light on Salvington. And this dwelling is so
ordered because Michael has experienced the living of all three phases of
intelligent creature existence: spiritual, morontial, and material. Because of
the name associated with his seventh and final bestowal on Urantia, he is
sometimes spoken of as Christ Michael.

Our Creator Son is not the Eternal Son, the existential Paradise associate of
the Universal Father and the Infinite Spirit. Michael of Nebadon is not a
member of the Paradise Trinity. Nevertheless our Master Son possesses in his
realm all of the divine attributes and powers that the Eternal Son himself
would manifest were he actually to be present on Salvington and functioning in
Nebadon. Michael possesses even additional power and authority, for he not only
personifies the Eternal Son but also fully represents and actually embodies the
personality presence of the Universal Father to and in this local universe. He
even represents the Father-Son. These relationships constitute a Creator Son
the most powerful, versatile, and influential of all divine beings who are
capable of direct administration of evolutionary universes and of personality
contact with immature creature beings.

Our Creator Son exerts the same spiritual drawing power, spirit gravity, from
the headquarters of the local universe that the Eternal Son of Paradise would
exert if he were personally present on Salvington, and more; this Universe Son
is also the personification of the Universal Father to the universe of Nebadon.
Creator Sons are personality centers for the spiritual forces of the Para-

                                top of page - 367

dise Father-Son. Creator Sons are the final power-personality focalizations of
the mighty time-space attributes of God the Sevenfold.

The Creator Son is the vicegerent personalization of the Universal Father, the
divinity co-ordinate of the Eternal Son, and the creative associate of the
Infinite Spirit. To our universe and all its inhabited worlds the Sovereign Son
is, to all practical intents and purposes, God. He personifies all of the
Paradise Deities which evolving mortals can discerningly comprehend. This Son
and his Spirit associate are your creator parents. To you, Michael, the Creator
Son, is the supreme personality; to you, the Eternal Son is supersupreme--an
infinite Deity personality.

In the person of the Creator Son we have a ruler and divine parent who is just
as mighty, efficient, and beneficent as would be the Universal Father and the
Eternal Son if both were present on Salvington and engaged in the
administration of the affairs of the universe of Nebadon.

                                top of page - 368

2. THE SOVEREIGN OF NEBADON

Observation of Creator Sons discloses that some resemble more the Father, some
the Son, while others are a blend of both their infinite parents. Our Creator
Son very definitely manifests traits and attributes which more resemble the
Eternal Son.

Michael elected to organize this local universe, and herein he now reigns
supreme. His personal power is limited by the pre-existent gravity circuits
centering at Paradise and by the reservation on the part of the Ancients of
Days of the superuniverse government of all final executive judgments regarding
the extinction of personality. Personality is the sole bestowal of the Father,
but the Creator Sons, with the approval of the Eternal Son, do initiate new
creature designs, and with the working co-operation of their Spirit associates
they may attempt new transformations of energy-matter.

Michael is the personification of the Paradise Father-Son to and in the local
universe of Nebadon; therefore, when the Creative Mother Spirit, the local
universe representation of the Infinite Spirit, subordinated herself to Christ
Michael upon the return from his final bestowal on Urantia, the Master Son
thereby acquired jurisdiction over "all power in heaven and on earth."

This subordination of the Divine Ministers to the Creator Sons of the local
universes constitutes these Master Sons the personal repositories of the
finitely manifestable divinity of the Father, Son, and Spirit, while the
creature-bestowal experiences of the Michaels qualify them to portray the
experiential divinity of the Supreme Being. No other beings in the universes
have thus personally exhausted the potentials of present finite experience, and
no other beings in the universes possess such qualifications for solitary
sovereignty.

Although Michael's headquarters is officially located on Salvington, the
capital of Nebadon, he spends much of his time visiting the constellation and
system headquarters and even the individual planets. Periodically he journeys
to Paradise and often to Uversa, where he counsels with the Ancients of Days.
When he is away from Salvington, his place is assumed by Gabriel, who then
functions as regent of the universe of Nebadon.

3. THE UNIVERSE SON AND SPIRIT

While pervading all the universes of time and space, the Infinite Spirit
functions from the headquarters of each local universe as a specialized
focalization acquiring full personality qualities by the technique of creative
co-operation with the Creator Son. As concerns a local universe, the
administrative authority of a Creator Son is supreme; the Infinite Spirit, as
the Divine Minister, is wholly co-operative though perfectly co-ordinate.

The Universe Mother Spirit of Salvington, the associate of Michael in the
control and administration of Nebadon, is of the sixth group of Supreme
Spirits, being the 611,121st of that order. She volunteered to accompany
Michael on the occasion of his liberation from Paradise obligations and has
ever since functioned with him in creating and governing his universe.

The Master Creator Son is the personal sovereign of his universe, but in all
the details of its management the Universe Spirit is codirector with the Son.
While the Spirit ever acknowledges the Son as sovereign and ruler, the Son
always accords the Spirit a co-ordinate position and equality of authority in
all the affairs of the realm. In all his work of love and life bestowal the
Creator Son is always and ever perfectly sustained and ably assisted by the
all-wise and ever-faithful Universe Spirit and by all of her diversified
retinue of angelic personalities. Such a Divine Minister is in reality the
mother of spirits and spirit personalities, the ever-present and all-wise
adviser of the Creator Son, a faithful and true manifestation of the Paradise
Infinite Spirit.

The Son functions as a father in his local universe. The Spirit, as mortal
creatures would understand, enacts the role of a mother, always assisting the
Son and being everlastingly indispensable to the administration of the
universe. In the face of insurrection only the Son and his associated Sons can
function as deliverers. Never can the Spirit undertake to contest rebellion or
defend authority, but ever does the Spirit sustain the Son in all of everything
he may be required to experience in his efforts to stabilize government and
uphold authority on worlds tainted with evil or dominated by sin. Only a Son
can retrieve the work of their joint creation, but no Son could hope for final
success without the incessant co-operation of the Divine Minister and her vast
assemblage of spirit helpers, the daughters of God, who so faithfully and
valiantly struggle for the welfare of mortal men and the glory of their divine
parents.

Upon the completion of the Creator Son's seventh and final creature bestowal,
the uncertainties of periodic isolation terminate for the Divine Minister, and
the Son's universe helper becomes forever settled in surety and control. It is
at the enthronement of the Creator Son as a Master Son, at the jubilee of
jubilees, that the Universe Spirit, before the assembled hosts, first makes
public and universal acknowledgment of subordination to the Son, pledging
fidelity and obedience. This event occurred in Nebadon at the time of Michael's
return to Salvington after the Urantian bestowal. Never before this momentous
occasion did the Universe Spirit acknowledge subordination to the Universe Son,
and not until after this voluntary relinquishment of power and authority by the
Spirit could it be truthfully proclaimed of the Son that "all power in heaven
and on earth has been committed to his hand."

                                top of page - 369

After this pledge of subordination by the Creative Mother Spirit, Michael of
Nebadon nobly acknowledged his eternal dependence on his Spirit companion,
constituting the Spirit coruler of his universe domains and requiring all their
creatures to pledge themselves in loyalty to the Spirit as they had to the Son;
and there issued and went forth the final "Proclamation of Equality." Though he
was the sovereign of this local universe, the Son published to the worlds the
fact of the Spirit's equality with him in all endowments of personality and
attributes of divine character. And this becomes the transcendent pattern for
the family organization and government of even the lowly creatures of the
worlds of space. This is, in deed and in truth, the high ideal of the family
and the human institution of voluntary marriage.

The Son and the Spirit now preside over the universe much as a father and
mother watch over, and minister to, their family of sons and daughters. It is
not altogether out of place to refer to the Universe Spirit as the creative
companion of the Creator Son and to regard the creatures of the realms as their
sons and daughters--a grand and glorious family but one of untold
responsibilities and endless watchcare.

The Son initiates the creation of certain of the universe children, while the
Spirit is solely responsible for bringing into existence the numerous orders of
spirit personalities who minister and serve under the direction and guidance of
this selfsame Mother Spirit. In the creation of other types of universe
personalities, both the Son and the Spirit function together, and in no
creative act does the one do aught without the counsel and approval of the
other.

4. GABRIEL--THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE

The Bright and Morning Star is the personalization of the first concept of
identity and ideal of personality conceived by the Creator Son and the local
universe manifestation of the Infinite Spirit. Going back to the early days of
the local universe, before the union of the Creator Son and the Mother Spirit
in the bonds of creative association, back to the times before the beginning of
the creation of their versatile family of sons and daughters, the first
conjoint act of this early and free association of these two divine persons
results in the creation of the highest spirit personality of the Son and the
Spirit, the Bright and Morning Star.

Only one such being of wisdom and majesty is brought forth in each local
universe. The Universal Father and the Eternal Son can, in fact do, create an
unlimited number of Sons in divinity equal to themselves; but such Sons, in
union with the Daughters of the Infinite Spirit, can create only one Bright and
Morning Star in each universe, a being like themselves and partaking freely of
their combined natures but not of their creative prerogatives. Gabriel of
Salvington is like the Universe Son in divinity of nature though considerably
limited in the attributes of Deity.

This first-born of the parents of a new universe is a unique personality
possessing many wonderful traits not visibly present in either ancestor, a
being of unprecedented versatility and unimagined brilliance. This supernal
personality embraces the divine will of the Son combined with the creative
imagination of the Spirit. The thoughts and acts of the Bright and Morning Star
will ever be fully representative of both the Creator Son and the Creative
Spirit. Such a

                                top of page - 370

being is also capable of a broad understanding of, and sympathetic contact
with, both the spiritual seraphic hosts and the material evolutionary will
creatures.

The Bright and Morning Star is not a creator, but he is a marvelous
administrator, being the personal administrative representative of the Creator
Son. Aside from creation and life impartation the Son and the Spirit never
confer upon important universe procedures without Gabriel's presence.

Gabriel of Salvington is the chief executive of the universe of Nebadon and the
arbiter of all executive appeals respecting its administration. This universe
executive was created fully endowed for his work, but he has gained experience
with the growth and evolution of our local creation.

Gabriel is the chief officer of execution for superuniverse mandates relating
to nonpersonal affairs in the local universe. Most matters pertaining to mass
judgment and dispensational resurrections, adjudicated by the Ancients of Days,
are also delegated to Gabriel and his staff for execution. Gabriel is thus the
combined chief executive of both the super- and the local universe rulers. He
has at his command an able corps of administrative assistants, created for
their special work, who are unrevealed to evolutionary mortals. In addition to
these assistants, Gabriel may employ any and all of the orders of celestial
beings functioning in Nebadon, and he is also the commander in chief of "the
armies of heaven"--the celestial hosts.

Gabriel and his staff are not teachers; they are administrators. They were
never known to depart from their regular work except when Michael was
incarnated on a creature bestowal. During such bestowals Gabriel was ever
attendant on the will of the incarnated Son, and with the collaboration of the
Union of Days, he became the actual director of universe affairs during the
later bestowals. Gabriel has been closely identified with the history and
development of Urantia ever since the mortal bestowal of Michael.

Aside from meeting Gabriel on the bestowal worlds and at the times of general-
and special-resurrection roll calls, mortals will seldom encounter him as they
ascend through the local universe until they are inducted into the
administrative work of the local creation. As administrators, of whatever order
or degree, you will come under the direction of Gabriel.

5. THE TRINITY AMBASSADORS

The administration of Trinity-origin personalities ends with the government of
the superuniverses. The local universes are characterized by dual supervision,
the beginning of the father-mother concept. The universe father is the Creator
Son; the universe mother is the Divine Minister, the local universe Creative
Spirit. Every local universe is, however, blessed with the presence of certain
personalities from the central universe and Paradise. At the head of this
Paradise group in Nebadon is the ambassador of the Paradise Trinity--Immanuel
of Salvington--the Union of Days assigned to the local universe of Nebadon. In
a certain sense this high Trinity Son is also the personal representative of
the Universal Father to the court of the Creator Son; hence his name, Immanuel.

Immanuel of Salvington, number 611,121 of the sixth order of Supreme Trinity
Personalities, is a being of sublime dignity and of such superb condescension
that he refuses the worship and adoration of all living creatures. He bears the
distinction of being the only personality in all Nebadon who has never

                                top of page - 371

acknowledged subordination to his brother Michael. He functions as adviser to
the Sovereign Son but gives counsel only on request. In the absence of the
Creator Son he might preside over any high universe council but would not
otherwise participate in the executive affairs of the universe except as
requested.

This ambassador of Paradise to Nebadon is not subject to the jurisdiction of
the local universe government. Neither does he exercise authoritative
jurisdiction in the executive affairs of an evolving local universe except in
the supervision of his liaison brethren, the Faithfuls of Days, serving on the
headquarters of the constellations.

The Faithfuls of Days, like the Union of Days, never proffer advice or offer
assistance to the constellation rulers unless it is asked for. These Paradise
ambassadors to the constellations represent the final personal presence of the
Stationary Sons of the Trinity functioning in advisory roles in the local
universes. Constellations are more closely related to the superuniverse
administration than local systems, which are administered exclusively by
personalities native to the local universe.

6. GENERAL ADMINISTRATION

Gabriel is the chief executive and actual administrator of Nebadon. Michael's
absence from Salvington in no way interferes with the orderly conduct of
universe affairs. During the absence of Michael, as recently on the mission of
reunion of Orvonton Master Sons on Paradise, Gabriel is the regent of the
universe. At such times Gabriel always seeks the counsel of Immanuel of
Salvington regarding all major problems.

The Father Melchizedek is Gabriel's first assistant. When the Bright and
Morning Star is absent from Salvington, his responsibilities are assumed by
this original Melchizedek Son.

The various subadministrations of the universe have assigned to them certain
special domains of responsibility. While, in general, a system government looks
after the welfare of its planets, it is more particularly concerned with the
physical status of living beings, with biologic problems. In turn, the
constellation rulers pay especial attention to the social and governmental
conditions prevailing on the different planets and systems. A constellation
government is chiefly exercised over unification and stabilization. Still
higher up, the universe rulers are more occupied with the spiritual status of
the realms.

Ambassadors are appointed by judicial decree and represent universes to other
universes. Consuls are representatives of constellations to one another and to
the universe headquarters; they are appointed by legislative decree and
function only within the confines of the local universe. Observers are
commissioned by executive decree of a System Sovereign to represent that system
to other systems and at the constellation capital, and they, too, function only
within the confines of the local universe.

From Salvington, broadcasts are simultaneously directed to the constellation
headquarters, the system headquarters, and to individual planets. All higher
orders of celestial beings are able to utilize this service for communication
with their fellows scattered throughout the universe. The universe broadcast is
extended to all inhabited worlds regardless of their spiritual status.

                                top of page - 372

Planetary intercommunication is denied only those worlds under spiritual
quarantine.

Constellation broadcasts are periodically sent out from the headquarters of the
constellation by the chief of the Constellation Fathers.

Chronology is reckoned, computed, and rectified by a special group of beings on
Salvington. The standard day of Nebadon is equal to eighteen days and six hours
of Urantia time, plus two and one-half minutes. The Nebadon year consists of a
segment of the time of universe swing in relation to the Uversa circuit and is
equal to one hundred days of standard universe time, about five years of
Urantia time.

Nebadon time, broadcast from Salvington, is the standard for all constellations
and systems in this local universe. Each constellation conducts its affairs by
Nebadon time, but the systems maintain their own chronology, as do the
individual planets.

The day in Satania, as reckoned on Jerusem, is a little less (1 hour, 4
minutes, 15 seconds) than three days of Urantia time. These times are generally
known as Salvington or universe time, and Satania or system time. Standard time
is universe time.

7. THE COURTS OF NEBADON

The Master Son, Michael, is supremely concerned with but three things:
creation, sustenance, and ministry. He does not personally participate in the
judicial work of the universe. Creators never sit in judgment on their
creatures; that is the exclusive function of creatures of high training and
actual creature experience.

The entire judicial mechanism of Nebadon is under the supervision of Gabriel.
The high courts, located on Salvington, are occupied with problems of general
universe import and with the appellate cases coming up from the system
tribunals. There are seventy branches of these universe courts, and they
function in seven divisions of ten sections each. In all matters of
adjudication there presides a dual magistracy consisting of one judge of
perfection antecedents and one magistrate of ascendant experience.

As regards jurisdiction, the local universe courts are limited in the following
matters:

1. The administration of the local universe is concerned with creation,
evolution, maintenance, and ministry. The universe tribunals are, therefore,
denied the right to pass upon those cases involving the question of eternal
life and death. This has no reference to natural death as it obtains on
Urantia, but if the question of the right of continued existence, life eternal,
comes up for adjudication, it must be referred to the tribunals of Orvonton,
and if decided adversely to the individual, all sentences of extinction are
carried out upon the orders, and through the agencies, of the rulers of the
supergovernment.

2. The default or defection of any of the Local Universe Sons of God which
jeopardizes their status and authority as Sons is never adjudicated in the
tribunals of a Son; such a misunderstanding would be immediately carried to the
superuniverse courts.

3. The question of the readmission of any constituent part of a local
universe--such as a local system--to the fellowship of full spiritual status in
the

                                top of page - 373

local creation subsequent to spiritual isolation must be concurred in by the
high assembly of the superuniverse.

In all other matters the courts of Salvington are final and supreme. There is
no appeal and no escape from their decisions and decrees.

However unfairly human contentions may sometimes appear to be adjudicated on
Urantia, in the universe justice and divine equity do prevail. You are living
in a well-ordered universe, and sooner or later you may depend upon being dealt
with justly, even mercifully.

8. THE LEGISLATIVE AND EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONS

On Salvington, the headquarters of Nebadon, there are no true legislative
bodies. The universe headquarters worlds are concerned largely with
adjudication. The legislative assemblies of the local universe are located on
the headquarters of the one hundred constellations. The systems are chiefly
concerned with the executive and administrative work of the local creations.
The System Sovereigns and their associates enforce the legislative mandates of
the constellation rulers and execute the judicial decrees of the high courts of
the universe.

While true legislation is not enacted at the universe headquarters, there do
function on Salvington a variety of advisory and research assemblies, variously
constituted and conducted in accordance with their scope and purpose. Some are
permanent; others disband upon the accomplishment of their objective.

The supreme council of the local universe is made up of three members from each
system and seven representatives from each constellation. Systems in isolation
do not have representation in this assembly, but they are permitted to send
observers who attend and study all its deliberations.

The one hundred councils of supreme sanction are also situated on Salvington.
The presidents of these councils constitute the immediate working cabinet of
Gabriel.

All findings of the high universe advisory councils are referred either to the
Salvington judicial bodies or to the legislative assemblies of the
constellations. These high councils are without authority or power to enforce
their recommendations. If their advice is founded on the fundamental laws of
the universe, then will the Nebadon courts issue rulings of execution; but if
their recommendations have to do with local or emergency conditions, they must
pass down to the legislative assemblies of the constellation for deliberative
enactment and then to the system authorities for execution. These high councils
are, in reality, the universe superlegislatures, but they function without the
authority of enactment and without the power of execution.

While we speak of universe administration in terms of "courts" and
"assemblies," it should be understood that these spiritual transactions are
very different from the more primitive and material activities of Urantia which
bear corresponding names.

[Presented by the Chief of the Archangels of Nebadon.]

                                top of page - 374

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³  The Evolution   ³     The Local     ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³       O...       ³     Unive...      ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
