            Urantia Book Paper 34 The Local Universe Mother Spirit
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  Paper 34 The Local Universe Mother Spirit

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

WHEN a Creator Son is personalized by the Universal Father and the Eternal Son,
then does the Infinite Spirit individualize a new and unique representation of
himself to accompany this Creator Son to the realms of space, there to be his
companion, first, in physical organization and, later, in creation and ministry
to the creatures of the newly projected universe.

A Creative Spirit reacts to both physical and spiritual realities; so does a
Creator Son; and thus are they co-ordinate and associate in the administration
of a local universe of time and space.

These Daughter Spirits are of the essence of the Infinite Spirit, but they
cannot function in the work of physical creation and spiritual ministry
simultaneously. In physical creation the Universe Son provides the pattern
while the Universe Spirit initiates the materialization of physical realities.
The Son operates in the power designs, but the Spirit transforms these energy
creations into physical substances. Although it is somewhat difficult to
portray this early universe presence of the Infinite Spirit as a person,
nevertheless, to the Creator Son the Spirit associate is personal and has
always functioned as a distinct individual.

1. PERSONALIZATION OF THE CREATIVE SPIRIT

After the completion of the physical organization of a starry and planetary
cluster and the establishment of the energy circuits by the superuniverse power
centers, subsequent to this preliminary work of creation by the agencies of the
Infinite Spirit, operating through, and under the direction of, his local
universe creative focalization, there goes forth the proclamation of the
Michael Son that life is next to be projected in the newly organized universe.
Upon the Paradise recognition of this declaration of intention, there occurs a
reaction of approval in the Paradise Trinity, followed by the disappearance in
the spiritual shining of the Deities of the Master Spirit in whose
superuniverse this new creation is organizing. Meanwhile the other Master
Spirits draw near this central lodgment of the Paradise Deities, and
subsequently, when the Deity-embraced Master Spirit emerges to the recognition
of his fellows, there occurs what is known as a "primary eruption." This is a
tremendous spiritual flash, a phenomenon clearly discernible as far away as the
headquarters of the superuniverse concerned; and simultaneously with this
little-understood Trinity manifestation there occurs a marked change in the
nature of the creative spirit presence and power of the Infinite Spirit
resident in the local universe concerned. In response to these Paradise
phenomena there immediately personalizes, in the very presence of the Creator
Son, a new personal representation of the Infinite Spirit. This is the

                                top of page - 375

Divine Minister. The individualized Creative Spirit helper of the Creator Son
has become his personal creative associate, the local universe Mother Spirit.

From and through this new personal segregation of the Conjoint Creator there
proceed the established currents and the ordained circuits of spirit power and
spiritual influence destined to pervade all the worlds and beings of that local
universe. In reality, this new and personal presence is but a transformation of
the pre-existent and less personal associate of the Son in his earlier work of
physical universe organization.

This is the relation of a stupendous drama in few words, but it represents
about all that can be told regarding these momentous transactions. They are
instantaneous, inscrutable, and incomprehensible; the secret of the technique
and procedure resides in the bosom of the Paradise Trinity. Of only one thing
are we certain: The Spirit presence in the local universe during the time of
purely physical creation or organization was incompletely differentiated from
the spirit of the Paradise Infinite Spirit; whereas, after the reappearance of
the supervising Master Spirit from the secret embrace of the Gods and following
the flash of spiritual energy, the local universe manifestation of the Infinite
Spirit suddenly and completely changes to the personal likeness of that Master
Spirit who was in transmuting liaison with the Infinite Spirit. The local
universe Mother Spirit thus acquires a personal nature tinged by that of the
Master Spirit of the superuniverse of astronomic jurisdiction.

This personalized presence of the Infinite Spirit, the Creative Mother Spirit
of the local universe, is known in Satania as the Divine Minister. To all
practical intents and spiritual purposes this manifestation of Deity is a
divine individual, a spirit person. And she is so recognized and regarded by
the Creator Son. It is through this localization and personalization of the
Third Source and Center in our local universe that the Spirit could
subsequently become so fully subject to the Creator Son that of this Son it was
truly said, "All power in heaven and on earth has been intrusted to him."

2. NATURE OF THE DIVINE MINISTER

Having undergone marked personality metamorphosis at the time of life creation,
the Divine Minister thereafter functions as a person and co-operates in a very
personal manner with the Creator Son in the planning and management of the
extensive affairs of their local creation. To many universe types of being,
even this representation of the Infinite Spirit may not appear to be wholly
personal during the ages preceding the final Michael bestowal; but subsequent
to the elevation of the Creator Son to the sovereign authority of a Master Son,
the Creative Mother Spirit becomes so augmented in personal qualities as to be
personally recognized by all contacting individuals.

From the earliest association with the Creator Son the Universe Spirit
possesses all the physical-control attributes of the Infinite Spirit, including
the full endowment of antigravity. Upon the attainment of personal status the
Universe Spirit exerts just as full and complete control of mind gravity, in
the local universe, as would the Infinite Spirit if personally present.

In each local universe the Divine Minister functions in accordance with the
nature and inherent characteristics of the Infinite Spirit as embodied in one
of the Seven Master Spirits of Paradise. While there is a basic uniformity of
char-

                                top of page - 376

acter in all Universe Spirits, there is also a diversity of function,
determined by their origin through one of the Seven Master Spirits. This
differential of origin accounts for the diverse techniques in the function of
the local universe Mother Spirits in different superuniverses. But in all
essential spiritual attributes these Spirits are identical, equally spiritual
and wholly divine, irrespective of superuniverse differentiation.

The Creative Spirit is coresponsible with the Creator Son in producing the
creatures of the worlds and never fails the Son in all efforts to uphold and
conserve these creations. Life is ministered and maintained through the agency
of the Creative Spirit. "You send forth your Spirit, and they are created. You
renew the face of the earth."

In the creation of a universe of intelligent creatures the Creative Mother
Spirit functions first in the sphere of universe perfection, collaborating with
the Son in the production of the Bright and Morning Star. Subsequently the
offspring of the Spirit increasingly approach the order of created beings on
the planets, even as the Sons grade downward from the Melchizedeks to the
Material Sons, who actually contact with the mortals of the realms. In the
later evolution of mortal creatures the Life Carrier Sons provide the physical
body, fabricated out of the existing organized material of the realm, while the
Universe Spirit contributes the "breath of life."

While the seventh segment of the grand universe may, in many respects, be tardy
in development, thoughtful students of our problems look forward to the
evolution of an extraordinarily well-balanced creation in the ages to come. We
predict this high degree of symmetry in Orvonton because the presiding Spirit
of this superuniverse is the chief of the Master Spirits on high, being a
spirit intelligence embodying the balanced union and perfect co-ordination of
the traits and character of all three of the eternal Deities. We are tardy and
backward in comparison with other sectors, but there undoubtedly awaits us a
transcendent development and an unprecedented achievement sometime in the
eternal ages of the future.

3. THE SON AND SPIRIT IN TIME AND SPACE

Neither the Eternal Son nor the Infinite Spirit is limited or conditioned by
either time or space, but most of their offspring are.

The Infinite Spirit pervades all space and indwells the circle of eternity.
Still, in their personal contact with the children of time, the personalities
of the Infinite Spirit must often reckon with temporal elements, though not so
much with space. Many mind ministries ignore space but suffer a time lag in
effecting co-ordination of diverse levels of universe reality. A Solitary
Messenger is virtually independent of space except that time is actually
required in traveling from one location to another; and there are similar
entities unknown to you.

In personal prerogatives a Creative Spirit is wholly and entirely independent
of space, but not of time. There is no specialized personal presence of such a
Universe Spirit on either the constellation or system headquarters. She is
equally and diffusely present throughout her entire local universe and is,
therefore, just as literally and personally present on one world as on any
other.

Only as regards the element of time is a Creative Spirit ever limited in her
universe ministrations. A Creator Son acts instantaneously throughout his uni-

                                top of page - 377

verse; but the Creative Spirit must reckon with time in the ministration of the
universal mind except as she consciously and designedly avails herself of the
personal prerogatives of the Universe Son. In pure-spirit function the Creative
Spirit also acts independently of time as well as in her collaboration with the
mysterious function of universe reflectivity.

Though the spirit-gravity circuit of the Eternal Son operates independently of
both time and space, all functions of the Creator Sons are not exempt from
space limitations. If the transactions of the evolutionary worlds are excepted,
these Michael Sons seem to be able to operate relatively independent of time. A
Creator Son is not handicapped by time, but he is conditioned by space; he
cannot personally be in two places at the same time. Michael of Nebadon acts
timelessly within his own universe and by reflectivity practically so in the
superuniverse. He communicates timelessly with the Eternal Son directly.

The Divine Minister is the understanding helper of the Creator Son, enabling
him to overcome and atone for his inherent limitations regarding space, for
when these two function in administrative union, they are practically
independent of time and space within the confines of their local creation.
Therefore, as practically observed throughout a local universe, the Creator Son
and the Creative Spirit usually function independently of both time and space
since there is always available to each the time and the space liberation of
the other.

Only absolute beings are independent of time and space in the absolute sense.
The majority of the subordinate persons of both the Eternal Son and the
Infinite Spirit are subject to both time and space.

When a Creative Spirit becomes "space conscious," she is preparing to recognize
a circumscribed "space domain" as hers, a realm in which to be space free in
contradistinction to all other space by which she would be conditioned. One is
free to choose and act only within the realm of one's consciousness.

4. THE LOCAL UNIVERSE CIRCUITS

There are three distinct spirit circuits in the local universe of Nebadon:

1. The bestowal spirit of the Creator Son, the Comforter, the Spirit of Truth.

2. The spirit circuit of the Divine Minister, the Holy Spirit.

3. The intelligence-ministry circuit, including the more or less unified
activities but diverse functioning of the seven adjutant mind-spirits.

The Creator Sons are endowed with a spirit of universe presence in many ways
analogous to that of the Seven Master Spirits of Paradise. This is the Spirit
of Truth which is poured out upon a world by a bestowal Son after he receives
spiritual title to such a sphere. This bestowed Comforter is the spiritual
force which ever draws all truth seekers towards Him who is the personification
of truth in the local universe. This spirit is an inherent endowment of the
Creator Son, emerging from his divine nature just as the master circuits of the
grand universe are derived from the personality presences of the Paradise
Deities.

The Creator Son may come and go; his personal presence may be in the local
universe or elsewhere; yet the Spirit of Truth functions undisturbed, for

                                top of page - 378

this divine presence, while derived from the personality of the Creator Son, is
functionally centered in the person of the Divine Minister.

The Universe Mother Spirit, however, never leaves the local universe
headquarters world. The spirit of the Creator Son may and does function
independently of the personal presence of the Son, but not so with her personal
spirit. The Holy Spirit of the Divine Minister would become nonfunctional if
her personal presence should be removed from Salvington. Her spirit presence
seems to be fixed on the universe headquarters world, and it is this very fact
that enables the spirit of the Creator Son to function independently of the
whereabouts of the Son. The Universe Mother Spirit acts as the universe focus
and center of the Spirit of Truth as well as of her own personal influence, the
Holy Spirit.

The Creator Father-Son and the Creative Mother Spirit both contribute variously
to the mind endowment of their local universe children. But the Creative Spirit
does not bestow mind until she is endowed with personal prerogatives.

The superevolutionary orders of personality in a local universe are endowed
with the local universe type of the superuniverse pattern of mind. The human
and the subhuman orders of evolutionary life are endowed with the adjutant
spirit types of mind ministration.

The seven adjutant mind-spirits are the creation of the Divine Minister of a
local universe. These mind-spirits are similar in character but diverse in
power, and all partake alike of the nature of the Universe Spirit, although
they are hardly regarded as personalities apart from their Mother Creator. The
seven adjutants have been given the following names: the spirit of wisdom, the
spirit of worship, the spirit of counsel, the spirit of knowledge, the spirit
of courage, the spirit of understanding, the spirit of intuition--of quick
perception.

These are the "seven spirits of God," "like lamps burning before the throne,"
which the prophet saw in the symbols of vision. But he did not see the seats of
the four and twenty sentinels about these seven adjutant mind-spirits. This
record represents the confusion of two presentations, one pertaining to the
universe headquarters and the other to the system capital. The seats of the
four and twenty elders are on Jerusem, the headquarters of your local system of
inhabited worlds.

But it was of Salvington that John wrote: "And out of the throne proceeded
lightnings and thunderings and voices"--the universe broadcasts to the local
systems. He also envisaged the directional control creatures of the local
universe, the living compasses of the headquarters world. This directional
control in Nebadon is maintained by the four control creatures of Salvington,
who operate over the universe currents and are ably assisted by the first
functioning mind-spirit, the adjutant of intuition, the spirit of "quick
understanding." But the description of these four creatures--called beasts--has
been sadly marred; they are of unparalleled beauty and exquisite form.

The four points of the compass are universal and inherent in the life of
Nebadon. All living creatures possess bodily units which are sensitive and
responsive to these directional currents. These creature creations are
duplicated on down through the universe to the individual planets and, in
conjunction with the magnetic forces of the worlds, so activate the hosts of
microscopic bodies

                                top of page - 379

in the animal organism that these direction cells ever point north and south.
Thus is the sense of orientation forever fixed in the living beings of the
universe. This sense is not wholly wanting as a conscious possession by
mankind. These bodies were first observed on Urantia about the time of this
narration.

5. THE MINISTRY OF THE SPIRIT

The Divine Minister co-operates with the Creator Son in the formulation of life
and the creation of new orders of beings up to the time of his seventh bestowal
and, subsequently, after his elevation to the full sovereignty of the universe,
continues to collaborate with the Son and the Son's bestowed spirit in the
further work of world ministry and planetary progression.

On the inhabited worlds the Spirit begins the work of evolutionary progression,
starting with the lifeless material of the realm, first endowing vegetable
life, then the animal organisms, then the first orders of human existence; and
each succeeding impartation contributes to the further unfolding of the
evolutionary potential of planetary life from the initial and primitive stages
to the appearance of will creatures. This labor of the Spirit is largely
effected through the seven adjutants, the spirits of promise, the unifying and
co-ordinating spirit-mind of the evolving planets, ever and unitedly leading
the races of men towards higher ideas and spiritual ideals.

Mortal man first experiences the ministry of the Spirit in conjunction with
mind when the purely animal mind of evolutionary creatures develops reception
capacity for the adjutants of worship and of wisdom. This ministry of the sixth
and seventh adjutants indicates mind evolution crossing the threshold of
spiritual ministry. And immediately are such minds of worship- and
wisdom-function included in the spiritual circuits of the Divine Minister.

When mind is thus endowed with the ministry of the Holy Spirit, it possesses
the capacity for (consciously or unconsciously) choosing the spiritual presence
of the Universal Father--the Thought Adjuster. But it is not until a bestowal
Son has liberated the Spirit of Truth for planetary ministry to all mortals
that all normal minds are automatically prepared for the reception of the
Thought Adjusters. The Spirit of Truth works as one with the presence of the
spirit of the Divine Minister. This dual spirit liaison hovers over the worlds,
seeking to teach truth and to spiritually enlighten the minds of men, to
inspire the souls of the creatures of the ascending races, and to lead the
peoples dwelling on the evolutionary planets ever towards their Paradise goal
of divine destiny.

Though the Spirit of Truth is poured out upon all flesh, this spirit of the Son
is almost wholly limited in function and power by man's personal reception of
that which constitutes the sum and substance of the mission of the bestowal
Son. The Holy Spirit is partly independent of human attitude and partially
conditioned by the decisions and co-operation of the will of man. Nevertheless,
the ministry of the Holy Spirit becomes increasingly effective in the
sanctification and spiritualization of the inner life of those mortals who the
more fully obey the divine leadings.

As individuals you do not personally possess a segregated portion or entity of
the spirit of the Creator Father-Son or the Creative Mother Spirit; these
ministries do not contact with, nor indwell, the thinking centers of the
individual's mind as do the Mystery Monitors. Thought Adjusters are definite
in-

                                top of page - 380

dividualizations of the prepersonal reality of the Universal Father, actually
indwelling the mortal mind as a very part of that mind, and they ever work in
perfect harmony with the combined spirits of the Creator Son and Creative
Spirit.

The presence of the Holy Spirit of the Universe Daughter of the Infinite
Spirit, of the Spirit of Truth of the Universe Son of the Eternal Son, and of
the Adjuster-spirit of the Paradise Father in or with an evolutionary mortal,
denotes symmetry of spiritual endowment and ministry and qualifies such a
mortal consciously to realize the faith-fact of sonship with God.

6. THE SPIRIT IN MAN

With the advancing evolution of an inhabited planet and the further
spiritualization of its inhabitants, additional spiritual influences may be
received by such mature personalities. As mortals progress in mind control and
spirit perception, these multiple spirit ministries become more and more
co-ordinate in function; they become increasingly blended with the overministry
of the Paradise Trinity.

Although Divinity may be plural in manifestation, in human experience Deity is
singular, always one. Neither is spiritual ministry plural in human experience.
Regardless of plurality of origin, all spirit influences are one in function.
Indeed they are one, being the spirit ministry of God the Sevenfold in and to
the creatures of the grand universe; and as creatures grow in appreciation of,
and receptivity for, this unifying ministry of the spirit, it becomes in their
experience the ministry of God the Supreme.

From the heights of eternal glory the divine Spirit descends, by a long series
of steps, to meet you as you are and where you are and then, in the partnership
of faith, lovingly to embrace the soul of mortal origin and to embark on the
sure and certain retracement of those steps of condescension, never stopping
until the evolutionary soul is safely exalted to the very heights of bliss from
which the divine Spirit originally sallied forth on this mission of mercy and
ministry.

Spiritual forces unerringly seek and attain their own original levels. Having
gone out from the Eternal, they are certain to return thereto, bringing with
them all those children of time and space who have espoused the leading and
teaching of the indwelling Adjuster, those who have been truly "born of the
Spirit," the faith sons of God.

The divine Spirit is the source of continual ministry and encouragement to the
children of men. Your power and achievement is "according to his mercy, through
the renewing of the Spirit." Spiritual life, like physical energy, is consumed.
Spiritual effort results in relative spiritual exhaustion. The whole ascendant
experience is real as well as spiritual; therefore, it is truly written, "It is
the Spirit that quickens." "The Spirit gives life."

The dead theory of even the highest religious doctrines is powerless to
transform human character or to control mortal behavior. What the world of
today needs is the truth which your teacher of old declared: "Not in word only
but also in power and in the Holy Spirit." The seed of theoretical truth is
dead, the highest moral concepts without effect, unless and until the divine
Spirit breathes upon the forms of truth and quickens the formulas of
righteousness.

                                top of page - 381

Those who have received and recognized the indwelling of God have been born of
the Spirit. "You are the temple of God, and the spirit of God dwells in you."
It is not enough that this spirit be poured out upon you; the divine Spirit
must dominate and control every phase of human experience.

It is the presence of the divine Spirit, the water of life, that prevents the
consuming thirst of mortal discontent and that indescribable hunger of the
unspiritualized human mind. Spirit-motivated beings "never thirst, for this
spiritual water shall be in them a well of satisfaction springing up into life
everlasting." Such divinely watered souls are all but independent of material
environment as regards the joys of living and the satisfactions of earthly
existence. They are spiritually illuminated and refreshed, morally strengthened
and endowed.

In every mortal there exists a dual nature: the inheritance of animal
tendencies and the high urge of spirit endowment. During the short life you
live on Urantia, these two diverse and opposing urges can seldom be fully
reconciled; they can hardly be harmonized and unified; but throughout your
lifetime the combined Spirit ever ministers to assist you in subjecting the
flesh more and more to the leading of the Spirit. Even though you must live
your material life through, even though you cannot escape the body and its
necessities, nonetheless, in purpose and ideals you are empowered increasingly
to subject the animal nature to the mastery of the Spirit. There truly exists
within you a conspiracy of spiritual forces, a confederation of divine powers,
whose exclusive purpose is to effect your final deliverance from material
bondage and finite handicaps.

The purpose of all this ministration is, "That you may be strengthened with
power through His spirit in the inner man." And all this represents but the
preliminary steps to the final attainment of the perfection of faith and
service, that experience wherein you shall be "filled with all the fullness of
God," "for all those who are led by the spirit of God are the sons of God."

The Spirit never drives, only leads. If you are a willing learner, if you want
to attain spirit levels and reach divine heights, if you sincerely desire to
reach the eternal goal, then the divine Spirit will gently and lovingly lead
you along the pathway of sonship and spiritual progress. Every step you take
must be one of willingness, intelligent and cheerful co-operation. The
domination of the Spirit is never tainted with coercion nor compromised by
compulsion.

And when such a life of spirit guidance is freely and intelligently accepted,
there gradually develops within the human mind a positive consciousness of
divine contact and assurance of spirit communion; sooner or later "the Spirit
bears witness with your spirit (the Adjuster) that you are a child of God."
Already has your own Thought Adjuster told you of your kinship to God so that
the record testifies that the Spirit bears witness "with your spirit," not to
your spirit.

The consciousness of the spirit domination of a human life is presently
attended by an increasing exhibition of the characteristics of the Spirit in
the life reactions of such a spirit-led mortal, "for the fruits of the spirit
are love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness,
and temperance." Such spirit-guided and divinely illuminated mortals, while
they yet tread the lowly paths of toil and in human faithfulness perform the
duties of their earthly assignments, have already begun to discern the lights
of eternal life as they glimmer on the faraway shores of another world; already
have they begun to

                                top of page - 382

comprehend the reality of that inspiring and comforting truth, "The kingdom of
God is not meat and drink but righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy
Spirit." And throughout every trial and in the presence of every hardship,
spirit-born souls are sustained by that hope which transcends all fear because
the love of God is shed abroad in all hearts by the presence of the divine
Spirit.

7. THE SPIRIT AND THE FLESH

The flesh, the inherent nature derived from the animal-origin races, does not
naturally bear the fruits of the divine Spirit. When the mortal nature has been
upstepped by the addition of the nature of the Material Sons of God, as the
Urantia races were in a measure advanced by the bestowal of Adam, then is the
way better prepared for the Spirit of Truth to co-operate with the indwelling
Adjuster to bring forth the beautiful harvest of the character fruits of the
spirit. If you do not reject this spirit, even though eternity may be required
to fulfill the commission, "he will guide you into all truth."

Evolutionary mortals inhabiting normal worlds of spiritual progress do not
experience the acute conflicts between the spirit and the flesh which
characterize the present-day Urantia races. But even on the most ideal planets,
pre-Adamic man must put forth positive efforts to ascend from the purely
animalistic plane of existence up through successive levels of increasingly
intellectual meanings and higher spiritual values.

The mortals of a normal world do not experience constant warfare between their
physical and spiritual natures. They are confronted with the necessity of
climbing up from the animal levels of existence to the higher planes of
spiritual living, but this ascent is more like undergoing an educational
training when compared with the intense conflicts of Urantia mortals in this
realm of the divergent material and spiritual natures.

The Urantia peoples are suffering the consequences of a double deprivation of
help in this task of progressive planetary spiritual attainment. The Caligastia
upheaval precipitated world-wide confusion and robbed all subsequent
generations of the moral assistance which a well-ordered society would have
provided. But even more disastrous was the Adamic default in that it deprived
the races of that superior type of physical nature which would have been more
consonant with spiritual aspirations.

Urantia mortals are compelled to undergo such marked struggling between the
spirit and the flesh because their remote ancestors were not more fully
Adamized by the Edenic bestowal. It was the divine plan that the mortal races
of Urantia should have had physical natures more naturally spirit responsive.

Notwithstanding this double disaster to man's nature and his environment,
present-day mortals would experience less of this apparent warfare between the
flesh and the spirit if they would enter the spirit kingdom, wherein the faith
sons of God enjoy comparative deliverance from the slave-bondage of the flesh
in the enlightened and liberating service of wholehearted devotion to doing the
will of the Father in heaven. Jesus showed mankind the new way of mortal living
whereby human beings may very largely escape the dire consequences of the
Caligastic rebellion and most effectively compensate for the deprivations
resulting from the Adamic default. "The spirit of the life of Christ Jesus

                                top of page - 383

has made us free from the law of animal living and the temptations of evil and
sin." "This is the victory that overcomes the flesh, even your faith."

Those God-knowing men and women who have been born of the Spirit experience no
more conflict with their mortal natures than do the inhabitants of the most
normal of worlds, planets which have never been tainted with sin nor touched by
rebellion. Faith sons work on intellectual levels and live on spiritual planes
far above the conflicts produced by unrestrained or unnatural physical desires.
The normal urges of animal beings and the natural appetites and impulses of the
physical nature are not in conflict with even the highest spiritual attainment
except in the minds of ignorant, mistaught, or unfortunately overconscientious
persons.

Having started out on the way of life everlasting, having accepted the
assignment and received your orders to advance, do not fear the dangers of
human forgetfulness and mortal inconstancy, do not be troubled with doubts of
failure or by perplexing confusion, do not falter and question your status and
standing, for in every dark hour, at every crossroad in the forward struggle,
the Spirit of Truth will always speak, saying, "This is the way."

[Presented by a Mighty Messenger temporarily assigned to service on Urantia.]

                                top of page - 384

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³  Administration  ³     The Local     ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³       ...        ³     Unive...      ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
