            Urantia Book Paper 35 The Local Universe Sons Of God
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 35 The Local Universe Sons Of God

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE Sons of God previously introduced have had a Paradise origin. They are the
offspring of the divine Rulers of the universal domains. Of the first Paradise
order of sonship, the Creator Sons, there is in Nebadon only one, Michael, the
universe father and sovereign. Of the second order of Paradise sonship, the
Avonal or Magisterial Sons, Nebadon has its full quota--1,062. And these
"lesser Christs" are just as effective and all-powerful in their planetary
bestowals as was the Creator and Master Son on Urantia. The third order, being
of Trinity origin, do not register in a local universe, but I estimate there
are in Nebadon between fifteen and twenty thousand Trinity Teacher Sons
exclusive of 9,642 creature-trinitized assistants of record. These Paradise
Daynals are neither magistrates nor administrators; they are superteachers.

The types of Sons about to be considered are of local universe origin; they are
the offspring of a Paradise Creator Son in varied association with the
complemental Universe Mother Spirit. The following orders of local universe
sonship find mention in these narratives:

1. Melchizedek Sons.

2. Vorondadek Sons.

3. Lanonandek Sons.

4. Life Carrier Sons.

Triune Paradise Deity functions for the creation of three orders of sonship:
the Michaels, the Avonals, and the Daynals. Dual Deity in the local universe,
the Son and the Spirit, also functions in the creation of three high orders of
Sons: the Melchizedeks, the Vorondadeks, and the Lanonandeks; and having
achieved this threefold expression, they collaborate with the next level of God
the Sevenfold in the production of the versatile order of Life Carriers. These
beings are classified with the descending Sons of God, but they are a unique
and original form of universe life. Their consideration will occupy the whole
of the next paper.

1. THE FATHER MELCHIZEDEK

After bringing into existence the beings of personal aid, such as the Bright
and Morning Star and other administrative personalities, in accordance with the
divine purpose and creative plans of a given universe, there occurs a new form
of creative union between the Creator Son and the Creative Spirit, the local
universe Daughter of the Infinite Spirit. The personality offspring resulting
from this creative partnership is the original Melchizedek--the Father

                                top of page - 385

Melchizedek--that unique being who subsequently collaborates with the Creator
Son and the Creative Spirit to bring into existence the entire group of that
name.

In the universe of Nebadon the Father Melchizedek acts as the first executive
associate of the Bright and Morning Star. Gabriel is occupied more with
universe policies, Melchizedek with practical procedures. Gabriel presides over
the regularly constituted tribunals and councils of Nebadon, Melchizedek over
the special, extraordinary, and emergency commissions and advisory bodies.
Gabriel and the Father Melchizedek are never away from Salvington at the same
time, for in Gabriel's absence the Father Melchizedek functions as the chief
executive of Nebadon.

The Melchizedeks of our universe were all created within one millennial period
of standard time by the Creator Son and the Creative Spirit in liaison with the
Father Melchizedek. Being an order of sonship wherein one of their own number
functioned as co-ordinate creator, Melchizedeks are in constitution partly of
self-origin and therefore candidates for the realization of a supernal type of
self-government. They periodically elect their own administrative chief for a
term of seven years of standard time and otherwise function as a
self-regulating order, though the original Melchizedek does exercise certain
inherent coparental prerogatives. From time to time this Father Melchizedek
designates certain individuals of his order to function as special Life
Carriers to the midsonite worlds, a type of inhabited planet not heretofore
revealed on Urantia.

The Melchizedeks do not function extensively outside the local universe except
when they are called as witnesses in matters pending before the tribunals of
the superuniverse, and when designated special ambassadors, as they sometimes
are, representing one universe to another in the same superuniverse. The
original or first-born Melchizedek of each universe is always at liberty to
journey to the neighboring universes or to Paradise on missions having to do
with the interests and duties of his order.

2. THE MELCHIZEDEK SONS

The Melchizedeks are the first order of divine Sons to approach sufficiently
near the lower creature life to be able to function directly in the ministry of
mortal uplift, to serve the evolutionary races without the necessity of
incarnation. These Sons are naturally at the mid-point of the great personality
descent, by origin being just about midway between the highest Divinity and the
lowest creature life of will endowment. They thus become the natural
intermediaries between the higher and divine levels of living existence and the
lower, even the material, forms of life on the evolutionary worlds. The
seraphic orders, the angels, delight to work with the Melchizedeks; in fact,
all forms of intelligent life find in these Sons understanding friends,
sympathetic teachers, and wise counselors.

The Melchizedeks are a self-governing order. With this unique group we
encounter the first attempt at self-determination on the part of local universe
beings and observe the highest type of true self-government. These Sons
organize their own machinery for their group and home-planet administration, as
well as that for the six associated spheres and their tributary worlds. And it
should be recorded that they have never abused their prerogatives; not once

                                top of page - 386

throughout all the superuniverse of Orvonton have these Melchizedek Sons ever
betrayed their trust. They are the hope of every universe group which aspires
to self-government; they are the pattern and the teachers of self-government to
all the spheres of Nebadon. All orders of intelligent beings, superiors from
above and subordinates from below, are wholehearted in their praise of the
government of the Melchizedeks.

The Melchizedek order of sonship occupies the position, and assumes the
responsibility, of the eldest son in a large family. Most of their work is
regular and somewhat routine, but much of it is voluntary and altogether
self-imposed. A majority of the special assemblies which, from time to time,
convene on Salvington are called on motion of the Melchizedeks. On their own
initiative these Sons patrol their native universe. They maintain an autonomous
organization devoted to universe intelligence, making periodical reports to the
Creator Son independent of all information coming up to universe headquarters
through the regular agencies concerned with the routine administration of the
realm. They are by nature unprejudiced observers; they have the full confidence
of all classes of intelligent beings.

The Melchizedeks function as mobile and advisory review courts of the realms;
these universe Sons go in small groups to the worlds to serve as advisory
commissions, to take depositions, to receive suggestions, and to act as
counselors, thus helping to compose the major difficulties and settle the
serious differences which arise from time to time in the affairs of the
evolutionary domains.

These eldest Sons of a universe are the chief aids of the Bright and Morning
Star in carrying out the mandates of the Creator Son. When a Melchizedek goes
to a remote world in the name of Gabriel, he may, for the purposes of that
particular mission, be deputized in the name of the sender and in that event
will appear on the planet of assignment with the full authority of the Bright
and Morning Star. Especially is this true on those spheres where a higher Son
has not yet appeared in the likeness of the creatures of the realm.

When a Creator Son enters upon the bestowal career on an evolutionary world, he
goes alone; but when one of his Paradise brothers, an Avonal Son, enters upon a
bestowal, he is accompanied by the Melchizedek supporters, twelve in number,
who so efficiently contribute to the success of the bestowal mission. They also
support the Paradise Avonals on magisterial missions to the inhabited worlds,
and in these assignments the Melchizedeks are visible to mortal eyes if the
Avonal Son is also thus manifest.

There is no phase of planetary spiritual need to which they do not minister.
They are the teachers who so often win whole worlds of advanced life to the
final and full recognition of the Creator Son and his Paradise Father.

The Melchizedeks are well-nigh perfect in wisdom, but they are not infallible
in judgment. When detached and alone on planetary missions, they have sometimes
erred in minor matters, that is, they have elected to do certain things which
their supervisors did not subsequently approve. Such an error of judgment
temporarily disqualifies a Melchizedek until he goes to Salvington and, in
audience with the Creator Son, receives that instruction which effectually
purges him of the disharmony which caused disagreement with his fellows; and
then, following the correctional rest, reinstatement to service ensues on the
third day. But these minor misadaptations in Melchizedek function have rarely
occurred in Nebadon.

                                top of page - 387

These Sons are not an increasing order; their number is stationary, although
varying in each local universe. The number of Melchizedeks of record on their
headquarters planet in Nebadon is upward of ten million.

3. THE MELCHIZEDEK WORLDS

The Melchizedeks occupy a world of their own near Salvington, the universe
headquarters. This sphere, by name Melchizedek, is the pilot world of the
Salvington circuit of seventy primary spheres, each of which is encircled by
six tributary spheres devoted to specialized activities. These marvelous
spheres--seventy primaries and 420 tributaries--are often spoken of as the
Melchizedek University. Ascending mortals from all the constellations of
Nebadon pass through training on all 490 worlds in the acquirement of
residential status on Salvington. But the education of ascenders is only one
phase of the manifold activities taking place on the Salvington cluster of
architectural spheres.

The 490 spheres of the Salvington circuit are divided into ten groups, each
containing seven primary and forty-two tributary spheres. Each of these groups
is under the general supervision of some one of the major orders of universe
life. The first group, embracing the pilot world and the next six primary
spheres in the encircling planetary procession, is under the supervision of the
Melchizedeks. These Melchizedek worlds are:

1. The pilot world--the home world of the Melchizedek Sons.

2. The world of the physical-life schools and the laboratories of living
energies.

3. The world of morontia life.

4. The sphere of initial spirit life.

5. The world of mid-spirit life.

6. The sphere of advancing spirit life.

7. The domain of co-ordinate and supreme self-realization.

The six tributary worlds of each of these Melchizedek spheres are devoted to
activities germane to the work of the associated primary sphere.

The pilot world, the sphere Melchizedek, is the common meeting ground for all
beings who are engaged in educating and spiritualizing the ascending mortals of
time and space. To an ascender this world is probably the most interesting
place in all Nebadon. All evolutionary mortals who graduate from their
constellation training are destined to land on Melchizedek, where they are
initiated into the regime of the disciplines and spirit progression of the
Salvington educational system. And never will you forget your reactions to the
first day of life on this unique world, not even after you have reached your
Paradise destination.

Ascending mortals maintain residence on the Melchizedek world while pursuing
their training on the six encircling planets of specialized education. And this
same method is adhered to throughout their sojourn on the seventy cultural
worlds, the primary spheres of the Salvington circuit.

Many diverse activities occupy the time of the numerous beings who reside on
the six tributary worlds of the Melchizedek sphere, but as concerns the as-

                                top of page - 388

cending mortals, these satellites are devoted to the following special phases
of study:

1. Sphere number one is occupied with the review of the initial planetary life
of the ascending mortals. This work is carried on in classes composed of those
who hail from a given world of mortal origin. Those from Urantia pursue such an
experiential review together.

2. The special work of sphere number two consists in a similar review of the
experiences passed through on the mansion worlds encircling the premier
satellite of the local system headquarters.

3. The reviews of this sphere pertain to the sojourn on the capital of the
local system and embrace the activities of the remainder of the architectural
worlds of the system headquarters cluster.

4. The fourth sphere is occupied with a review of the experiences of the
seventy tributary worlds of the constellation and of their associated spheres.

5. On the fifth sphere there is conducted the review of the ascendant sojourn
on the constellation headquarters world.

6. The time on sphere number six is devoted to an attempt to correlate these
five epochs and thus achieve co-ordination of experience preparatory to
entering the Melchizedek primary schools of universe training.

The schools of universe administration and spiritual wisdom are located on the
Melchizedek home world, where also are to be found those schools devoted to a
single line of research, such as energy, matter, organization, communication,
records, ethics, and comparative creature existence.

In the Melchizedek College of Spiritual Endowment all orders--even the Paradise
orders--of the Sons of God co-operate with the Melchizedek and the seraphic
teachers in training the hosts who go forth as evangels of destiny, proclaiming
spiritual liberty and divine sonship even to the remote worlds of the universe.
This particular school of the Melchizedek University is an exclusive universe
institution; student visitors are not received from other realms.

The highest course of training in universe administration is given by the
Melchizedeks on their home world. This College of High Ethics is presided over
by the original Father Melchizedek. It is to these schools that the various
universes send exchange students. While the young universe of Nebadon stands
low in the scale of universes as regards spiritual achievement and high ethical
development, nevertheless, our administrative troubles have so turned the whole
universe into a vast clinic for other near-by creations that the Melchizedek
colleges are thronged with student visitors and observers from other realms.
Besides the immense group of local registrants there are always upward of one
hundred thousand foreign students in attendance upon the Melchizedek schools,
for the order of Melchizedeks in Nebadon is renowned throughout all Splandon.

4. SPECIAL WORK OF THE MELCHIZEDEKS

A highly specialized branch of Melchizedek activities has to do with the
supervision of the progressive morontia career of the ascending mortals. Much
of this training is conducted by the patient and wise seraphic ministers,
assisted by mortals who have ascended to relatively higher levels of universe
attainment,

                                top of page - 389

but all of this educational work is under the general supervision of the
Melchizedeks in association with the Trinity Teacher Sons.

While the Melchizedek orders are chiefly devoted to the vast educational system
and experiential training regime of the local universe, they also function in
unique assignments and in unusual circumstances. In an evolving universe
eventually embracing approximately ten million inhabited worlds, many things
out of the ordinary are destined to happen, and it is in such emergencies that
the Melchizedeks act. On Edentia, your constellation headquarters, they are
known as emergency Sons. They are always ready to serve in all
exigencies--physical, intellectual, or spiritual--whether on a planet, in a
system, in a constellation, or in the universe. Whenever and wherever special
help is needed, there you will find one or more of the Melchizedek Sons.

When failure of some feature of the Creator Son's plan is threatened, forthwith
will go a Melchizedek to render assistance. But not often are they summoned to
function in the presence of sinful rebellion, such as occurred in Satania.

The Melchizedeks are the first to act in all emergencies of whatever nature on
all worlds where will creatures dwell. They sometimes act as temporary
custodians on wayward planets, serving as receivers of a defaulting planetary
government. In a planetary crisis these Melchizedek Sons serve in many unique
capacities. It is easily possible for such a Son to make himself visible to
mortal beings, and sometimes one of this order has even incarnated in the
likeness of mortal flesh. Seven times in Nebadon has a Melchizedek served on an
evolutionary world in the similitude of mortal flesh, and on numerous occasions
these Sons have appeared in the likeness of other orders of universe creatures.
They are indeed the versatile and volunteer emergency ministers to all orders
of universe intelligences and to all the worlds and systems of worlds.

The Melchizedek who lived on Urantia during the time of Abraham was locally
known as Prince of Salem because he presided over a small colony of truth
seekers residing at a place called Salem. He volunteered to incarnate in the
likeness of mortal flesh and did so with the approval of the Melchizedek
receivers of the planet who feared that the light of life would become
extinguished during that period of increasing spiritual darkness. And he did
foster the truth of his day and safely pass it on to Abraham and his
associates.

5. THE VORONDADEK SONS

After the creation of the personal aids and the first group of the versatile
Melchizedeks, the Creator Son and the local universe Creative Spirit planned
for, and brought into existence, the second great and diverse order of universe
sonship, the Vorondadeks. They are more generally known as Constellation
Fathers because a Son of this order is uniformly found at the head of each
constellation government in every local universe.

The number of Vorondadeks varies in each local universe, just one million being
the recorded number in Nebadon. These Sons, like their co-ordinates, the
Melchizedeks, possess no power of reproduction. There exists no known method
whereby they can increase their numbers.

In many respects these Sons are a self-governing body; as individuals and as
groups, even as a whole, they are largely self-determinative, much as are the

                                top of page - 390

Melchizedeks, but Vorondadeks do not function through such a wide range of
activities. They do not equal their Melchizedek brethren in brilliant
versatility, but they are even more reliable and efficient as rulers and
farseeing administrators. Neither are they quite the administrative peers of
their subordinates, the Lanonandek System Sovereigns, but they excel all orders
of universe sonship in stability of purpose and in divinity of judgment.

Although the decisions and rulings of this order of Sons are always in
accordance with the spirit of divine sonship and in harmony with the policies
of the Creator Son, they have been cited for error to the Creator Son, and in
details of technique their decisions have sometimes been reversed on appeal to
the superior tribunals of the universe. But these Sons rarely fall into error,
and they have never gone into rebellion; never in all the history of Nebadon
has a Vorondadek been found in contempt of the universe government.

The service of the Vorondadeks in the local universes is extensive and varied.
They serve as ambassadors to other universes and as consuls representing
constellations within their native universe. Of all orders of local universe
sonship they are the most often intrusted with the full delegation of sovereign
powers to be exercised in critical universe situations.

On those worlds segregated in spiritual darkness, those spheres which have,
through rebellion and default, suffered planetary isolation, an observer
Vorondadek is usually present pending the restoration of normal status. In
certain emergencies this Most High observer could exercise absolute and
arbitrary authority over every celestial being assigned to that planet. It is
of record on Salvington that the Vorondadeks have sometimes exercised such
authority as Most High regents of such planets. And this has also been true
even of inhabited worlds that were untouched by rebellion.

Often a corps of twelve or more Vorondadek Sons sits en banc as a high court of
review and appeal concerning special cases involving the status of a planet or
a system. But their work more largely pertains to the legislative functions
indigenous to the constellation governments. As a result of all these services,
the Vorondadek Sons have become the historians of the local universes; they are
personally familiar with all the political struggles and the social upheavals
of the inhabited worlds.

6. THE CONSTELLATION FATHERS

At least three Vorondadeks are assigned to the rulership of each of the one
hundred constellations of a local universe. These Sons are selected by the
Creator Son and are commissioned by Gabriel as the Most Highs of the
constellations for service during one dekamillennium--10,000 standard years,
about 50,000 years of Urantia time. The reigning Most High, the Constellation
Father, has two associates, a senior and a junior. At each change of
administration the senior associate becomes the head of the government, the
junior assumes the duties of the senior, while the unassigned Vorondadeks
resident on the Salvington worlds nominate one of their number as candidate for
selection to assume the responsibilities of junior associate. Thus each of the
Most High rulers, in accordance with present policy, has a period of service on
the headquarters of a constellation of three dekamillenniums, about 150,000
Urantia years.

The one hundred Constellation Fathers, the actual presiding heads of the
constellation governments, constitute the supreme advisory cabinet of the Crea-

                                top of page - 391

tor Son. This council is in frequent session at universe headquarters and is
unlimited in the scope and range of its deliberations but is chiefly concerned
with the welfare of the constellations and with the unification of the
administration of the entire local universe.

When a Constellation Father is in attendance upon duties at the universe
headquarters as he frequently is, the senior associate becomes acting director
of constellation affairs. The normal function of the senior associate is the
oversight of spiritual affairs, while the junior associate is personally
occupied with the physical welfare of the constellation. No major policy,
however, is ever carried out in a constellation unless all three of the Most
Highs are agreed upon all the details of its execution.

The entire mechanism of spirit intelligence and communication channels is at
the disposal of the constellation Most Highs. They are in perfect touch with
their superiors on Salvington and with their direct subordinates, the
sovereigns of the local systems. They frequently convene in council with these
System Sovereigns to deliberate upon the state of the constellation.

The Most Highs surround themselves with a corps of counselors, which varies in
number and personnel from time to time in accordance with the presence of the
various groups at constellation headquarters and also as the local requirements
vary. During times of stress they may ask for, and will quickly receive,
additional Sons of the Vorondadek order to assist with the administrative work.
Norlatiadek, your own constellation, is at present administered by twelve
Vorondadek Sons.

7. THE VORONDADEK WORLDS

The second group of seven worlds in the circuit of seventy primary spheres
surrounding Salvington comprise the Vorondadek planets. Each of these spheres,
with its six encircling satellites, is devoted to a special phase of Vorondadek
activities. On these forty-nine realms the ascending mortals secure the acme of
their education respecting universe legislation.

The ascending mortals have observed the legislative assemblies as they
functioned on the headquarters worlds of the constellations, but here on these
Vorondadek worlds they participate in the enactment of the actual general
legislation of the local universe under the tutelage of the senior Vorondadeks.
Such enactments are designed to co-ordinate the varied pronouncements of the
autonomous legislative assemblies of the one hundred constellations. The
instruction to be had in the Vorondadek schools is unexcelled even on Uversa.
This training is progressive, extending from the first sphere, with
supplemental work on its six satellites, on up through the remaining six
primary spheres and their associated satellite groups.

The ascending pilgrims will be introduced to numerous new activities on these
worlds of study and practical work. We are not forbidden to undertake the
revelation of these new and undreamed-of pursuits, but we despair of being able
to portray these undertakings to the material mind of mortal beings. We are
without words to convey the meanings of these supernal activities, and there
are no analogous human engagements which might be utilized as illustrations of
these new occupations of the ascending mortals as they pursue their studies on
these forty-nine worlds. And many other activities, not a part of the ascendant
regime, are centered on these Vorondadek worlds of the Salvington circuit.

                                top of page - 392

8. THE LANONANDEK SONS

After the creation of the Vorondadeks, the Creator Son and the Universe Mother
Spirit unite for the purpose of bringing into existence the third order of
universe sonship, the Lanonandeks. Although occupied with varied tasks
connected with the system administrations, they are best known as System
Sovereigns, the rulers of the local systems, and as Planetary Princes, the
administrative heads of the inhabited worlds.

Being a later and lower--as concerns divinity levels--order of sonship
creation, these beings were required to pass through certain courses of
training on the Melchizedek worlds in preparation for subsequent service. They
were the first students in the Melchizedek University and were classified and
certified by their Melchizedek teachers and examiners according to ability,
personality, and attainment.

The universe of Nebadon began its existence with exactly twelve million
Lanonandeks, and when they had passed through the Melchizedek sphere, they were
divided in the final tests into three classes:

1. Primary Lanonandeks. Of the highest rank there were 709,841. These are the
Sons designated as System Sovereigns and assistants to the supreme councils of
the constellations and as counselors in the higher administrative work of the
universe.

2. Secondary Lanonandeks. Of this order emerging from Melchizedek there were
10,234,601. They are assigned as Planetary Princes and to the reserves of that
order.

3. Tertiary Lanonandeks. This group contained 1,055,558. These Sons function as
subordinate assistants, messengers, custodians, commissioners, observers, and
prosecute the miscellaneous duties of a system and its component worlds.

It is not possible, as it is with evolutionary beings, for these Sons to
progress from one group to another. When subjected to the Melchizedek training,
when once tested and classified, they serve continuously in the rank assigned.
Neither do these Sons engage in reproduction; their number in the universe is
stationary.

In round numbers the Lanonandek order of Sons is classified on Salvington as
follows:

Universe Co-ordinators and Constellation Counselors .....100,000

System Sovereigns and Assistants ........................600,000

Planetary Princes and Reserves .......................10,000,000

Messenger Corps .........................................400,000

Custodians and Recorders ................................100,000

Reserve Corps ...........................................800,000

Since Lanonandeks are a somewhat lower order of sonship than the Melchizedeks
and the Vorondadeks, they are of even greater service in the subordinate units
of the universe, for they are capable of drawing nearer the lower creatures of
the intelligent races. They also stand in greater danger of going astray, of
departing from the acceptable technique of universe government. But these
Lanonandeks, especially the primary order, are the most able and versatile of

                                top of page - 393

all local universe administrators. In executive ability they are excelled only
by Gabriel and his unrevealed associates.

9. THE LANONANDEK RULERS

The Lanonandeks are the continuous rulers of the planets and the rotating
sovereigns of the systems. Such a Son now rules on Jerusem, the headquarters of
your local system of inhabited worlds.

The System Sovereigns rule in commissions of two or three on the headquarters
of each system of inhabited worlds. The Constellation Father names one of these
Lanonandeks as chief every dekamillennium. Sometimes no change in the head of
the trio is made, the matter being entirely optional with the constellation
rulers. System governments do not suddenly change in personnel unless a tragedy
of some sort occurs.

When System Sovereigns or assistants are recalled, their places are filled by
selections made by the supreme council located on the constellation
headquarters from the reserves of that order, a group which is larger on
Edentia than the average indicated.

The supreme Lanonandek councils are stationed on the various constellation
headquarters. Such a body is presided over by the senior Most High associate of
the Constellation Father, while the junior associate supervises the reserves of
the secondary order.

The System Sovereigns are true to their names; they are well-nigh sovereign in
the local affairs of the inhabited worlds. They are almost paternal in their
direction of the Planetary Princes, the Material Sons, and the ministering
spirits. The personal grasp of the sovereign is all but complete. These rulers
are not supervised by Trinity observers from the central universe. They are the
executive division of the local universe, and as custodians of the enforcement
of legislative mandates and as executives for the application of judicial
verdicts, they present the one place in all universe administration where
personal disloyalty to the will of the Michael Son could most easily and
readily intrench itself and seek to assert itself.

Our local universe has been unfortunate in that over seven hundred Sons of the
Lanonandek order have rebelled against the universe government, thus
precipitating confusion in several systems and on numerous planets. Of this
entire number of failures only three were System Sovereigns; practically all of
these Sons belonged to the second and third orders, Planetary Princes and
tertiary Lanonandeks.

The large number of these Sons who have lapsed from integrity does not indicate
any fault in creatorship. They could have been made divinely perfect, but they
were so created that they might better understand, and draw near to, the
evolutionary creatures dwelling on the worlds of time and space.

Of all the local universes in Orvonton, our universe has, with the exception of
Henselon, lost the largest number of this order of Sons. On Uversa it is the
consensus that we have had so much administrative trouble in Nebadon because
our Sons of the Lanonandek order have been created with such a large degree of
personal liberty in choosing and planning. I do not make this observation by
way of criticism. The Creator of our universe has full authority and power to
do this. It is the contention of our high rulers that, while such free-choosing

                                top of page - 394

Sons make excessive trouble in the earlier ages of the universe, when things
are fully sifted and finally settled, the gains of higher loyalty and fuller
volitional service on the part of these thoroughly tested Sons will far more
than compensate for the confusion and tribulations of earlier times.

In the event of rebellion on a system headquarters, a new sovereign is usually
installed within a comparatively short time, but not so on the individual
planets. They are the component units of the material creation, and creature
free will is a factor in the final adjudication of all such problems. Successor
Planetary Princes are designated for isolated worlds, planets whose princes of
authority may have gone astray, but they do not assume active rulership of such
worlds until the results of insurrection are partially overcome and removed by
the remedial measures adopted by the Melchizedeks and other ministering
personalities. Rebellion by a Planetary Prince instantly isolates his planet;
the local spiritual circuits are immediately severed. Only a bestowal Son can
re-establish interplanetary lines of communication on such a spiritually
isolated world.

There exists a plan for saving these wayward and unwise Sons, and many have
availed themselves of this merciful provision; but never again may they
function in those positions wherein they defaulted. After rehabilitation they
are assigned to custodial duties and to departments of physical administration.

10. THE LANONANDEK WORLDS

The third group of seven worlds in the Salvington circuit of seventy planets,
with their respective forty-two satellites, constitute the Lanonandek cluster
of administrative spheres. On these realms the experienced Lanonandeks
belonging to the ex-System Sovereign corps officiate as administrative teachers
of the ascending pilgrims and the seraphic hosts. The evolutionary mortals
observe the system administrators at work on the system capitals, but here they
participate in the actual co-ordination of the administrative pronouncements of
the ten thousand local systems.

These administrative schools of the local universe are supervised by a corps of
Lanonandek Sons who have had long experience as System Sovereigns and as
constellation counselors. These executive colleges are excelled only by the
administrative schools of Ensa.

While serving as training spheres for ascending mortals, the Lanonandek worlds
are the centers for extensive undertakings having to do with the normal and
routine administrative operations of the universe. All the way in to Paradise
the ascending pilgrims pursue their studies in the practical schools of applied
knowledge--actual training in really doing the things they are being taught.
The universe educational system sponsored by the Melchizedeks is practical,
progressive, meaningful, and experiential. It embraces training in things
material, intellectual, morontial, and spiritual.

It is in connection with these administrative spheres of the Lanonandeks that
most of the salvaged Sons of that order serve as custodians and directors of
planetary affairs. And these defaulting Planetary Princes and their associates
in rebellion who choose to accept the proffered rehabilitation will continue to
serve in these routine capacities, at least until the universe of Nebadon is
settled in light and life.

                                top of page - 395

Many of the Lanonandek Sons in the older systems, however, have established
wonderful records of service, administration, and spiritual achievement. They
are a noble, faithful, and loyal group, notwithstanding their tendency to fall
into error through fallacies of personal liberty and fictions of
self-determination.

[Sponsored by the Chief of Archangels acting by authority of Gabriel of
Salvington.]

                                top of page - 396

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³    The Local     ³     The Life      ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³     Unive...     ³     Carrie...     ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
