                   Urantia Book Paper 36 The Life Carriers
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          Paper 36 The Life Carriers

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

LIFE does not originate spontaneously. Life is constructed according to plans
formulated by the (unrevealed) Architects of Being and appears on the inhabited
planets either by direct importation or as a result of the operations of the
Life Carriers of the local universes. These carriers of life are among the most
interesting and versatile of the diverse family of universe Sons. They are
intrusted with designing and carrying creature life to the planetary spheres.
And after planting this life on such new worlds, they remain there for long
periods to foster its development.

1. ORIGIN AND NATURE OF LIFE CARRIERS

Though the Life Carriers belong to the family of divine sonship, they are a
peculiar and distinct type of universe Sons, being the only group of
intelligent life in a local universe in whose creation the rulers of a
superuniverse participate. The Life Carriers are the offspring of three
pre-existent personalities: the Creator Son, the Universe Mother Spirit, and,
by designation, one of the three Ancients of Days presiding over the destinies
of the superuniverse concerned. These Ancients of Days, who alone can decree
the extinction of intelligent life, participate in the creation of the Life
Carriers, who are intrusted with establishing physical life on the evolving
worlds.

In the universe of Nebadon we have on record the creation of one hundred
million Life Carriers. This efficient corps of life disseminators is not a
truly self-governing group. They are directed by the life-determining trio,
consisting of Gabriel, the Father Melchizedek, and Nambia, the original and
first-born Life Carrier of Nebadon. But in all phases of their divisional
administration they are self-governing.

Life Carriers are graded into three grand divisions: The first division is the
senior Life Carriers, the second, assistants, and the third, custodians. The
primary division is subdivided into twelve groups of specialists in the various
forms of life manifestation. The segregation of these three divisions was
effected by the Melchizedeks, who conducted tests for such purposes on the Life
Carriers' headquarters sphere. The Melchizedeks have ever since been closely
associated with the Life Carriers and always accompany them when they go forth
to establish life on a new planet.

When an evolutionary planet is finally settled in light and life, the Life
Carriers are organized into the higher deliberative bodies of advisory capacity
to assist in the further administration and development of the world and its
glorified beings. In the later and settled ages of an evolving universe these
Life Carriers are intrusted with many new duties.

                                top of page - 397

2. THE LIFE CARRIER WORLDS

The Melchizedeks have the general oversight of the fourth group of seven
primary spheres in the Salvington circuit. These worlds of the Life Carriers
are designated as follows:

1. The Life Carrier headquarters.

2. The life-planning sphere.

3. The life-conservation sphere.

4. The sphere of life evolution.

5. The sphere of life associated with mind.

6. The sphere of mind and spirit in living beings.

7. The sphere of unrevealed life.

Each of these primary spheres is surrounded by six satellites, on which the
special phases of all the Life Carrier activities in the universe are centered.

World Number One, the headquarters sphere, together with its six tributary
satellites, is devoted to the study of universal life, life in all of its known
phases of manifestation. Here is located the college of life planning, wherein
function teachers and advisers from Uversa and Havona, even from Paradise. And
I am permitted to reveal that the seven central emplacements of the adjutant
mind-spirits are situated on this world of the Life Carriers.

The number ten--the decimal system--is inherent in the physical universe but
not in the spiritual. The domain of life is characterized by three, seven, and
twelve or by multiples and combinations of these basic numbers. There are three
primal and essentially different life plans, after the order of the three
Paradise Sources and Centers, and in the universe of Nebadon these three basic
forms of life are segregated on three different types of planets. There were,
originally, twelve distinct and divine concepts of transmissible life. This
number twelve, with its subdivisions and multiples, runs throughout all basic
life patterns of all seven superuniverses. There are also seven architectural
types of life design, fundamental arrangements of the reproducing
configurations of living matter. The Orvonton life patterns are configured as
twelve inheritance carriers. The differing orders of will creatures are
configured as 12, 24, 48, 96, 192, 384, and 768. On Urantia there are
forty-eight units of pattern control--trait determiners--in the sex cells of
human reproduction.

The Second World is the life-designing sphere; here all new modes of life
organization are worked out. While the original life designs are provided by
the Creator Son, the actual outworking of these plans is intrusted to the Life
Carriers and their associates. When the general life plans for a new world have
been formulated, they are transmitted to the headquarters sphere, where they
are minutely scrutinized by the supreme council of the senior Life Carriers in
collaboration with a corps of consulting Melchizedeks. If the plans are a
departure from previously accepted formulas, they must be passed upon, and
endorsed by, the Creator Son. The chief of Melchizedeks often represents the
Creator Son in these deliberations.

Planetary life, therefore, while similar in some respects, differs in many ways
on each evolutionary world. Even in a uniform life series in a single family

                                top of page - 398

of worlds, life is not exactly the same on any two planets; there is always a
planetary type, for the Life Carriers work constantly in an effort to improve
the vital formulas committed to their keeping.

There are over one million fundamental or cosmic chemical formulas which
constitute the parent patterns and the numerous basic functional variations of
life manifestations. Satellite number one of the life-planning sphere is the
realm of the universe physicists and electrochemists who serve as technical
assistants to the Life Carriers in the work of capturing, organizing, and
manipulating the essential units of energy which are employed in building up
the material vehicles of life transmission, the so-called germ plasm.

The planetary life-planning laboratories are situated on the second satellite
of this world number two. In these laboratories the Life Carriers and all their
associates collaborate with the Melchizedeks in the effort to modify and
possibly improve the life designed for implantation on the decimal planets of
Nebadon. The life now evolving on Urantia was planned and partially worked out
on this very world, for Urantia is a decimal planet, a life-experiment world.
On one world in each ten a greater variance in the standard life designs is
permitted than on the other (nonexperimental) worlds.

World Number Three is devoted to the conservation of life. Here various modes
of life protection and preservation are studied and developed by the assistants
and custodians of the Life Carrier corps. The life plans for every new world
always provide for the early establishment of the life-conservation commission,
consisting of custodian specialists in the expert manipulation of the basic
life patterns. On Urantia there were twenty-four such custodian commissioners,
two for each fundamental or parent pattern of the architectural organization of
the life material. On planets such as yours the highest form of life is
reproduced by a life-carrying bundle which possesses twenty-four pattern units.
(And since the intellectual life grows out of, and upon the foundation of, the
physical, there come into existence the four and twenty basic orders of psychic
organization.)

Sphere Number Four and its tributary satellites are devoted to the study of the
evolution of creature life in general and to the evolutionary antecedents of
any one life level in particular. The original life plasm of an evolutionary
world must contain the full potential for all future developmental variations
and for all subsequent evolutionary changes and modifications. The provision
for such far-reaching projects of life metamorphosis may require the appearance
of many apparently useless forms of animal and vegetable life. Such by-products
of planetary evolution, foreseen or unforeseen, appear upon the stage of action
only to disappear, but in and through all this long process there runs the
thread of the wise and intelligent formulations of the original designers of
the planetary life plan and species scheme. The manifold by-products of
biologic evolution are all essential to the final and full function of the
higher intelligent forms of life, notwithstanding that great outward disharmony
may prevail from time to time in the long upward struggle of the higher
creatures to effect the mastery of the lower forms of life, many of which are
sometimes so antagonistic to the peace and comfort of the evolving will
creatures.

Number Five World is concerned wholly with life associated with mind. Each of
its satellites is devoted to the study of a single phase of creature mind

                                top of page - 399

correlated with creature life. Mind such as man comprehends is an endowment of
the seven adjutant mind-spirits superimposed on the nonteachable or mechanical
levels of mind by the agencies of the Infinite Spirit. The life patterns are
variously responsive to these adjutants and to the different spirit ministries
operating throughout the universes of time and space. The capacity of material
creatures to effect spirit response is entirely dependent on the associated
mind endowment, which, in turn, has directionized the course of the biologic
evolution of these same mortal creatures.

World Number Six is dedicated to the correlation of mind with spirit as they
are associated with living forms and organisms. This world and its six
tributaries embrace the schools of creature co-ordination, wherein teachers
from both the central universe and the superuniverse collaborate with the
Nebadon instructors in presenting the highest levels of creature attainment in
time and space.

The Seventh Sphere of the Life Carriers is dedicated to the unrevealed domains
of evolutionary creature life as it is related to the cosmic philosophy of the
expanding factualization of the Supreme Being.

3. LIFE TRANSPLANTATION

Life does not spontaneously appear in the universes; the Life Carriers must
initiate it on the barren planets. They are the carriers, disseminators, and
guardians of life as it appears on the evolutionary worlds of space. All life
of the order and forms known on Urantia arises with these Sons, though not all
forms of planetary life are existent on Urantia.

The corps of Life Carriers commissioned to plant life upon a new world usually
consists of one hundred senior carriers, one hundred assistants, and one
thousand custodians. The Life Carriers often carry actual life plasm to a new
world, but not always. They sometimes organize the life patterns after arriving
on the planet of assignment in accordance with formulas previously approved for
a new adventure in life establishment. Such was the origin of the planetary
life of Urantia.

When, in accordance with approved formulas, the physical patterns have been
provided, then do the Life Carriers catalyze this lifeless material, imparting
through their persons the vital spirit spark; and forthwith do the inert
patterns become living matter.

The vital spark--the mystery of life--is bestowed through the Life Carriers,
not by them. They do indeed supervise such transactions, they formulate the
life plasm itself, but it is the Universe Mother Spirit who supplies the
essential factor of the living plasm. From the Creative Daughter of the
Infinite Spirit comes that energy spark which enlivens the body and presages
the mind.

In the bestowal of life the Life Carriers transmit nothing of their personal
natures, not even on those spheres where new orders of life are projected. At
such times they simply initiate and transmit the spark of life, start the
required revolutions of matter in accordance with the physical, chemical, and
electrical specifications of the ordained plans and patterns. Life Carriers are
living catalytic presences which agitate, organize, and vitalize the otherwise
inert elements of the material order of existence.

                                top of page - 400

The Life Carriers of a planetary corps are given a certain period in which to
establish life on a new world, approximately one-half million years of the time
of that planet. At the termination of this period, indicated by certain
developmental attainments of the planetary life, they cease implantation
efforts, and they may not subsequently add anything new or supplemental to the
life of that planet.

During the ages intervening between life establishment and the emergence of
human creatures of moral status, the Life Carriers are permitted to manipulate
the life environment and otherwise favorably directionize the course of
biologic evolution. And this they do for long periods of time.

When the Life Carriers operating on a new world have once succeeded in
producing a being with will, with the power of moral decision and spiritual
choice, then and there their work terminates--they are through; they may
manipulate the evolving life no further. From this point forward the evolution
of living things must proceed in accordance with the endowment of the inherent
nature and tendencies which have already been imparted to, and established in,
the planetary life formulas and patterns. The Life Carriers are not permitted
to experiment or to interfere with will; they are not allowed to dominate or
arbitrarily influence moral creatures.

Upon the arrival of a Planetary Prince they prepare to leave, though two of the
senior carriers and twelve custodians may volunteer, by taking temporary
renunciation vows, to remain indefinitely on the planet as advisers in the
matter of the further development and conservation of the life plasm. Two such
Sons and their twelve associates are now serving on Urantia.

4. MELCHIZEDEK LIFE CARRIERS

In every local system of inhabited worlds throughout Nebadon there is a single
sphere whereon the Melchizedeks have functioned as life carriers. These abodes
are known as the system midsonite worlds, and on each of them a materially
modified Melchizedek Son has mated with a selected Daughter of the material
order of sonship. The Mother Eves of such midsonite worlds are dispatched from
the system headquarters of jurisdiction, having been chosen by the designated
Melchizedek life carrier from among the numerous volunteers who respond to the
call of the System Sovereign addressed to the Material Daughters of his sphere.

The progeny of a Melchizedek life carrier and a Material Daughter are known as
midsoniters. The Melchizedek father of such a race of supernal creatures
eventually leaves the planet of his unique life function, and the Mother Eve of
this special order of universe beings also departs upon the appearance of the
seventh generation of planetary offspring. The direction of such a world then
devolves upon her eldest son.

The midsonite creatures live and function as reproducing beings on their
magnificent worlds until they are one thousand standard years of age; whereupon
they are translated by seraphic transport. Midsoniters are nonreproducing
beings thereafter because the technique of dematerialization which they pass
through in preparation for enseraphiming forever deprives them of reproductive
prerogatives.

The present status of these beings can hardly be reckoned as either mortal or
immortal, neither can they be definitely classified as human or divine. These

                                top of page - 401

creatures are not Adjuster indwelt, hence hardly immortal. But neither do they
seem to be mortal; no midsoniter has experienced death. All midsoniters ever
born in Nebadon are alive today, functioning on their native worlds, on some
intervening sphere, or on the Salvington midsonite sphere in the finaliters'
group of worlds.

The Salvington Worlds of the Finaliters. The Melchizedek life carriers, as well
as the associated Mother Eves, go from the system midsonite spheres to the
finaliters' worlds of the Salvington circuit, where their offspring are also
destined to forgather.

It should be explained in this connection that the fifth group of seven primary
worlds in the Salvington circuit are the Nebadon worlds of the finaliters. The
children of the Melchizedek life carriers and the Material Daughters are
domiciled on the seventh world of the finaliters, the Salvington midsonite
sphere.

The satellites of the seven primary worlds of the finaliters are the rendezvous
of the personalities of the super- and central universes who may be executing
assignments in Nebadon. While the ascending mortals go about freely on all of
the cultural worlds and training spheres of the 490 worlds comprising the
Melchizedek University, there are certain special schools and numerous
restricted zones which they are not permitted to enter. This is especially true
of the forty-nine spheres under the jurisdiction of the finaliters.

The purpose of the midsonite creatures is not at present known, but it would
appear that these personalities are forgathering on the seventh finaliter world
in preparation for some future eventuality in universe evolution. Our inquiries
concerning the midsonite races are always referred to the finaliters, and
always do the finaliters decline to discuss the destiny of their wards.
Regardless of our uncertainty as to the future of the midsoniters, we do know
that every local universe in Orvonton harbors such an accumulating corps of
these mysterious beings. It is the belief of the Melchizedek life carriers that
their midsonite children will some day be endowed with the transcendental and
eternal spirit of absonity by God the Ultimate.

5. THE SEVEN ADJUTANT MIND-SPIRITS

It is the presence of the seven adjutant mind-spirits on the primitive worlds
that conditions the course of organic evolution; that explains why evolution is
purposeful and not accidental. These adjutants represent that function of the
mind ministry of the Infinite Spirit which is extended to the lower orders of
intelligent life through the operations of a local universe Mother Spirit. The
adjutants are the children of the Universe Mother Spirit and constitute her
personal ministry to the material minds of the realms. Wherever and whenever
such mind is manifest, these spirits are variously functioning.

The seven adjutant mind-spirits are called by names which are the equivalents
of the following designations: intuition, understanding, courage, knowledge,
counsel, worship, and wisdom. These mind-spirits send forth their influence
into all the inhabited worlds as a differential urge, each seeking receptivity
capacity for manifestation quite apart from the degree to which its fellows may
find reception and opportunity for function.

The central lodgments of the adjutant spirits on the Life Carrier headquarters
world indicate to the Life Carrier supervisors the extent and quality of

                                top of page - 402

the mind function of the adjutants on any world and in any given living
organism of intellect status. These life-mind emplacements are perfect
indicators of living mind function for the first five adjutants. But with
regard to the sixth and seventh adjutant spirits--worship and wisdom--these
central lodgments record only a qualitative function. The quantitative activity
of the adjutant of worship and the adjutant of wisdom is registered in the
immediate presence of the Divine Minister on Salvington, being a personal
experience of the Universe Mother Spirit.

The seven adjutant mind-spirits always accompany the Life Carriers to a new
planet, but they should not be regarded as entities; they are more like
circuits. The spirits of the seven universe adjutants do not function as
personalities apart from the universe presence of the Divine Minister; they are
in fact a level of consciousness of the Divine Minister and are always
subordinate to the action and presence of their creative mother.

We are handicapped for words adequately to designate these seven adjutant
mind-spirits. They are ministers of the lower levels of experiential mind, and
they may be described, in the order of evolutionary attainment, as follows:

1. The spirit of intuition--quick perception, the primitive physical and
inherent reflex instincts, the directional and other self-preservative
endowments of all mind creations; the only one of the adjutants to function so
largely in the lower orders of animal life and the only one to make extensive
functional contact with the nonteachable levels of mechanical mind.

2. The spirit of understanding--the impulse of co-ordination, the spontaneous
and apparently automatic association of ideas. This is the gift of the
co-ordination of acquired knowledge, the phenomenon of quick reasoning, rapid
judgment, and prompt decision.

3. The spirit of courage--the fidelity endowment--in personal beings, the basis
of character acquirement and the intellectual root of moral stamina and
spiritual bravery. When enlightened by facts and inspired by truth, this
becomes the secret of the urge of evolutionary ascension by the channels of
intelligent and conscientious self-direction.

4. The spirit of knowledge--the curiosity-mother of adventure and discovery,
the scientific spirit; the guide and faithful associate of the spirits of
courage and counsel; the urge to direct the endowments of courage into useful
and progressive paths of growth.

5. The spirit of counsel--the social urge, the endowment of species
co-operation; the ability of will creatures to harmonize with their fellows;
the origin of the gregarious instinct among the more lowly creatures.

6. The spirit of worship--the religious impulse, the first differential urge
separating mind creatures into the two basic classes of mortal existence. The
spirit of worship forever distinguishes the animal of its association from the
soulless creatures of mind endowment. Worship is the badge of
spiritual-ascension candidacy.

7. The spirit of wisdom--the inherent tendency of all moral creatures towards
orderly and progressive evolutionary advancement. This is the highest of the
adjutants, the spirit co-ordinator and articulator of the work of all the

                                top of page - 403

others. This spirit is the secret of that inborn urge of mind creatures which
initiates and maintains the practical and effective program of the ascending
scale of existence; that gift of living things which accounts for their
inexplicable ability to survive and, in survival, to utilize the co-ordination
of all their past experience and present opportunities for the acquisition of
all of everything that all of the other six mental ministers can mobilize in
the mind of the organism concerned. Wisdom is the acme of intellectual
performance. Wisdom is the goal of a purely mental and moral existence.

The adjutant mind-spirits experientially grow, but they never become personal.
They evolve in function, and the function of the first five in the animal
orders is to a certain extent essential to the function of all seven as human
intellect. This animal relationship makes the adjutants more practically
effective as human mind; hence animals are to a certain extent indispensable to
man's intellectual as well as to his physical evolution.

These mind-adjutants of a local universe Mother Spirit are related to creature
life of intelligence status much as the power centers and physical controllers
are related to the nonliving forces of the universe. They perform invaluable
service in the mind circuits on the inhabited worlds and are effective
collaborators with the Master Physical Controllers, who also serve as
controllers and directors of the preadjutant mind levels, the levels of
nonteachable or mechanical mind.

Living mind, prior to the appearance of capacity to learn from experience, is
the ministry domain of the Master Physical Controllers. Creature mind, before
acquiring the ability to recognize divinity and worship Deity, is the exclusive
domain of the adjutant spirits. With the appearance of the spiritual response
of the creature intellect, such created minds at once become superminded, being
instantly encircuited in the spirit cycles of the local universe Mother Spirit.

The adjutant mind-spirits are in no manner directly related to the diverse and
highly spiritual function of the spirit of the personal presence of the Divine
Minister, the Holy Spirit of the inhabited worlds; but they are functionally
antecedent to, and preparatory for, the appearance of this very spirit in
evolutionary man. The adjutants afford the Universe Mother Spirit a varied
contact with, and control over, the material living creatures of a local
universe, but they do not repercuss in the Supreme Being when acting on
prepersonality levels.

Nonspiritual mind is either a spirit-energy manifestation or a physical-energy
phenomenon. Even human mind, personal mind, has no survival qualities apart
from spirit identification. Mind is a divinity bestowal, but it is not immortal
when it functions without spirit insight, and when it is devoid of the ability
to worship and crave survival.

6. LIVING FORCES

Life is both mechanistic and vitalistic--material and spiritual. Ever will
Urantia physicists and chemists progress in their understanding of the
protoplasmic forms of vegetable and animal life, but never will they be able to
produce living organisms. Life is something different from all energy
manifestations; even the material life of physical creatures is not inherent in
matter.

Things material may enjoy an independent existence, but life springs only from
life. Mind can be derived only from pre-existent mind. Spirit takes origin

                                top of page - 404

only from spirit ancestors. The creature may produce the forms of life, but
only a creator personality or a creative force can supply the activating living
spark.

Life Carriers can organize the material forms, or physical patterns, of living
beings, but the Spirit provides the initial spark of life and bestows the
endowment of mind. Even the living forms of experimental life which the Life
Carriers organize on their Salvington worlds are always devoid of reproductive
powers. When the life formulas and the vital patterns are correctly assembled
and properly organized, the presence of a Life Carrier is sufficient to
initiate life, but all such living organisms are lacking in two essential
attributes--mind endowment and reproductive powers. Animal mind and human mind
are gifts of the local universe Mother Spirit, functioning through the seven
adjutant mind-spirits, while creature ability to reproduce is the specific and
personal impartation of the Universe Spirit to the ancestral life plasm
inaugurated by the Life Carriers.

When the Life Carriers have designed the patterns of life, after they have
organized the energy systems, there must occur an additional phenomenon; the
"breath of life" must be imparted to these lifeless forms. The Sons of God can
construct the forms of life, but it is the Spirit of God who really contributes
the vital spark. And when the life thus imparted is spent, then again the
remaining material body becomes dead matter. When the bestowed life is
exhausted, the body returns to the bosom of the material universe from which it
was borrowed by the Life Carriers to serve as a transient vehicle for that life
endowment which they conveyed to such a visible association of energy-matter.

The life bestowed upon plants and animals by the Life Carriers does not return
to the Life Carriers upon the death of plant or animal. The departing life of
such a living thing possesses neither identity nor personality; it does not
individually survive death. During its existence and the time of its sojourn in
the body of matter, it has undergone a change; it has undergone energy
evolution and survives only as a part of the cosmic forces of the universe; it
does not survive as individual life. The survival of mortal creatures is wholly
predicated on the evolvement of an immortal soul within the mortal mind.

We speak of life as "energy" and as "force," but it is really neither.
Force-energy is variously gravity responsive; life is not. Pattern is also
nonresponsive to gravity, being a configuration of energies that have already
fulfilled all gravity-responsive obligations. Life, as such, constitutes the
animation of some pattern-configured or otherwise segregated system of
energy--material, mindal, or spiritual.

There are some things connected with the elaboration of life on the
evolutionary planets which are not altogether clear to us. We fully comprehend
the physical organization of the electrochemical formulas of the Life Carriers,
but we do not wholly understand the nature and source of the life-activation
spark. We know that life flows from the Father through the Son and by the
Spirit. It is more than possible that the Master Spirits are the sevenfold
channel of the river of life which is poured out upon all creation. But we do
not comprehend the technique whereby the supervising Master Spirit participates
in the initial episode of life bestowal on a new planet. The Ancients of Days,
we are confident, also have some part in this inauguration of life on a new
world, but we are wholly ignorant of the nature thereof. We do know that the
Universe Mother Spirit actually vitalizes the lifeless patterns and imparts to
such activated plasm the

                                top of page - 405

prerogatives of organismal reproduction. We observe that these three are the
levels of God the Sevenfold, sometimes designated as the Supreme Creators of
time and space; but otherwise we know little more than Urantia mortals--simply
that concept is inherent in the Father, expression in the Son, and life
realization in the Spirit.

[Indited by a Vorondadek Son stationed on Urantia as an observer and acting in
this capacity by request of the Melchizedek Chief of the Supervising Revelatory
Corps.]

                                top of page - 406

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³    The Local     ³   Personalities   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³     Unive...     ³       O...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
