          Urantia Book Paper 37 Personalities Of The Local Universe
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 Paper 37 Personalities Of The Local Universe

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

AT THE head of all personality in Nebadon stands the Creator and Master Son,
Michael, the universe father and sovereign. Co-ordinate in divinity and
complemental in creative attributes is the local universe Mother Spirit, the
Divine Minister of Salvington. And these creators are in a very literal sense
the Father-Son and the Spirit-Mother of all the native creatures of Nebadon.

Preceding papers have dealt with the created orders of sonship; succeeding
narratives will portray the ministering spirits and the ascending orders of
sonship. This paper is chiefly concerned with an intervening group, the
Universe Aids, but it will also give brief consideration to certain of the
higher spirits stationed in Nebadon and to certain of the orders of permanent
citizenship in the local universe.

1. THE UNIVERSE AIDS

Many of the unique orders generally grouped in this category are unrevealed,
but as presented in these papers, the Universe Aids include the following seven
orders:

1. Bright and Morning Stars.

2. Brilliant Evening Stars.

3. Archangels.

4. Most High Assistants.

5. High Commissioners.

6. Celestial Overseers.

7. Mansion World Teachers.

Of the first order of Universe Aids, the Bright and Morning Stars, there is
just one in each local universe, and he is the first-born of all creatures
native to a local universe. The Bright and Morning Star of our universe is
known as Gabriel of Salvington. He is the chief executive of all Nebadon,
functioning as the personal representative of the Sovereign Son and as
spokesman for his creative consort.

During the earlier times of Nebadon, Gabriel worked quite alone with Michael
and the Creative Spirit. As the universe grew and administrative problems
multiplied, he was provided with a personal staff of unrevealed assistants, and
eventually this group was augmented by the creation of the Nebadon corps of
Evening Stars.

                                top of page - 407

2. THE BRILLIANT EVENING STARS

These brilliant creatures were planned by the Melchizedeks and were then
brought into being by the Creator Son and the Creative Spirit. They serve in
many capacities but chiefly as liaison officers of Gabriel, the local universe
chief executive. One or more of these beings function as his representatives at
the capital of every constellation and system in Nebadon.

As chief executive of Nebadon, Gabriel is ex officio chairman of, or observer
at, most of the Salvington conclaves, and as many as one thousand of these are
often in session simultaneously. The Brilliant Evening Stars represent Gabriel
on these occasions; he cannot be in two places at the same time, and these
superangels compensate for this limitation. They perform an analogous service
for the corps of the Trinity Teacher Sons.

Though personally occupied with administrative duties, Gabriel maintains
contact with all other phases of universe life and affairs through the
Brilliant Evening Stars. They always accompany him on his planetary tours and
frequently go on special missions to the individual planets as his personal
representatives. On such assignments they have sometimes been known as "the
angel of the Lord." They frequently go to Uversa to represent the Bright and
Morning Star before the courts and assemblies of the Ancients of Days, but they
seldom journey beyond the confines of Orvonton.

The Brilliant Evening Stars are a unique twofold order, embracing some of
created dignity and others of attained service. The Nebadon corps of these
superangels now numbers 13,641. There are 4,832 of created dignity, while 8,809
are ascendant spirits who have attained this goal of exalted service. Many of
these ascendant Evening Stars started their universe careers as seraphim;
others have ascended from unrevealed levels of creature life. As an attainment
goal this high corps is never closed to ascension candidates so long as a
universe is not settled in light and life.

Both types of Brilliant Evening Stars are easily visible to morontia
personalities and certain types of supermortal material beings. The created
beings of this interesting and versatile order possess a spirit force which can
be manifested independently of their personal presence.

The head of these superangels is Gavalia, the first-born of this order in
Nebadon. Since the return of Christ Michael from his triumphant bestowal on
Urantia, Gavalia has been assigned to the ascendant mortal ministry, and for
the last nineteen hundred Urantia years his associate, Galantia, has maintained
headquarters on Jerusem, where he spends about half of his time. Galantia is
the first of the ascendant superangels to attain this high estate.

No grouping or company organization of the Brilliant Evening Stars exists other
than their customary association in pairs on many assignments. They are not
extensively assigned on missions pertaining to the ascendant career of mortals,
but when thus commissioned, they never function alone. They always work in
pairs--one a created being, the other an ascendant Evening Star.

One of the high duties of the Evening Stars is to accompany the Avonal bestowal
Sons on their planetary missions, even as Gabriel accompanied Michael on his
Urantia bestowal. The two attending superangels are the ranking personalities
of such missions, serving as cocommanders of the archangels

                                top of page - 408

and all others assigned to these undertakings. It is the senior of these
superangel commanders who, at the significant time and age, bids the Avonal
bestowal Son, "Be about your brother's business."

Similar pairs of these superangels are assigned to the planetary corps of
Trinity Teacher Sons that functions to establish the postbestowal or dawning
spiritual age of an inhabited world. On such assignments the Evening Stars
serve as liaisons between the mortals of the realm and the invisible corps of
Teacher Sons.

The Worlds of the Evening Stars. The sixth group of seven Salvington worlds and
their forty-two tributary satellites are assigned to the administration of the
Brilliant Evening Stars. The seven primary worlds are presided over by the
created orders of these superangels, while the tributary satellites are
administered by ascendant Evening Stars.

The satellites of the first three worlds are devoted to the schools of the
Teacher Sons and the Evening Stars dedicated to the spirit personalities of the
local universe. The next three groups are occupied by similar joint schools
devoted to the training of ascending mortals. The seventh-world satellites are
reserved for the triune deliberations of the Teacher Sons, the Evening Stars,
and the finaliters. During recent times these superangels have been closely
identified with the local universe work of the Corps of the Finality, and they
have long been associated with the Teacher Sons. There exists a liaison of
tremendous power and import between the Evening Stars and the Gravity
Messengers attached to the finaliter working groups. The seventh primary world
itself is reserved for those unrevealed matters which pertain to the future
relationship that will obtain between the Teacher Sons, the finaliters, and the
Evening Stars consequent upon the completed emergence of the superuniverse
manifestation of the personality of God the Supreme.

3. THE ARCHANGELS

Archangels are the offspring of the Creator Son and the Universe Mother Spirit.
They are the highest type of high spirit being produced in large numbers in a
local universe, and at the time of the last registry there were almost eight
hundred thousand in Nebadon.

Archangels are one of the few groups of local universe personalities who are
not normally under the jurisdiction of Gabriel. They are not in any manner
concerned with the routine administration of the universe, being dedicated to
the work of creature survival and to the furtherance of the ascending career of
the mortals of time and space. While not ordinarily subject to the direction of
the Bright and Morning Star, the archangels do sometimes function by his
authority. They also collaborate with others of the Universe Aids, such as the
Evening Stars, as is illustrated by certain transactions depicted in the
narrative of life transplantation on your world.

The archangel corps of Nebadon is directed by the first-born of this order, and
in more recent times a divisional headquarters of the archangels has been
maintained on Urantia. It is this unusual fact that soon arrests the attention
of extra-Nebadon student visitors. Among their early observations of
intrauniverse transactions is the discovery that many ascendant activities of
the Brilliant Evening Stars are directed from the capital of a local system,
Satania. On

                                top of page - 409

further examination they discover that certain archangel activities are
directed from a small and apparently insignificant inhabited world called
Urantia. And then ensues the revelation of Michael's bestowal on Urantia and
their immediately quickened interest in you and your lowly sphere.

Do you grasp the significance of the fact that your lowly and confused planet
has become a divisional headquarters for the universe administration and
direction of certain archangel activities having to do with the Paradise
ascension scheme? This undoubtedly presages the future concentration of other
ascendant activities on the bestowal world of Michael and lends a tremendous
and solemn import to the Master's personal promise, "I will come again."

In general, the archangels are assigned to the service and ministry of the
Avonal order of sonship, but not until they have passed through extensive
preliminary training in all phases of the work of the various ministering
spirits. A corps of one hundred accompanies every Paradise bestowal Son to an
inhabited world, being temporarily assigned to him for the duration of such a
bestowal. If the Magisterial Son should become temporary ruler of the planet,
these archangels would act as the directing heads of all celestial life on that
sphere.

Two senior archangels are always assigned as the personal aids of a Paradise
Avonal on all planetary missions, whether involving judicial actions,
magisterial missions, or bestowal incarnations. When this Paradise Son has
finished the judgment of a realm and the dead are called to record (the
so-called resurrection), it is literally true that the seraphic guardians of
the slumbering personalities respond to "the voice of the archangel." The roll
call of a dispensation termination is promulgated by an attendant archangel.
This is the archangel of the resurrection, sometimes referred to as the
"archangel of Michael."

The Worlds of the Archangels. The seventh group of the encircling Salvington
worlds, with their associated satellites, is assigned to the archangels. Sphere
number one and all of its six tributary satellites are occupied by the
personality record keepers. This enormous corps of recorders busy themselves
with keeping straight the record of each mortal of time from the moment of
birth up through the universe career until such an individual either leaves
Salvington for the superuniverse regime or is "blotted out of recorded
existence" by the mandate of the Ancients of Days.

It is on these worlds that personality records and identification sureties are
classified, filed, and preserved during that time which intervenes between
mortal death and the hour of repersonalization, the resurrection from death.

4. MOST HIGH ASSISTANTS

The Most High Assistants are a group of volunteering beings, of origin outside
the local universe, who are temporarily assigned as central and superuniverse
representatives to, or observers of, the local creations. Their number varies
constantly but is always far up in the millions.

From time to time we thus benefit from the ministry and assistance of such
Paradise-origin beings as Perfectors of Wisdom, Divine Counselors, Universal
Censors, Inspired Trinity Spirits, Trinitized Sons, Solitary Messengers,
supernaphim, seconaphim, tertiaphim, and other gracious ministers, who sojourn
with us for the purpose of helping our native personalities in the effort to
bring

                                top of page - 410

all Nebadon into fuller harmony with the ideas of Orvonton and the ideals of
Paradise.

Any of these beings may be voluntarily serving in Nebadon and hence be
technically outside our jurisdiction, but when functioning by assignment, such
personalities of the super- and central universes are not wholly exempt from
the regulations of the local universe of their sojourn, though they continue to
function as representatives of the higher universes and to work in accordance
with the instructions which constitute their mission in our realm. Their
general headquarters is situated in the Salvington sector of the Union of Days,
and they operate in Nebadon subject to the oversupervision of this ambassador
of the Paradise Trinity. When serving in unattached groups, these personalities
from the higher realms are usually self-directing, but when serving on request,
they often voluntarily place themselves wholly under the jurisdiction of the
supervising directors of the realms of assigned function.

Most High Assistants serve in local universe and in constellation capacities
but are not directly attached to the system or planetary governments. They may,
however, function anywhere in the local universe and may be assigned to any
phase of Nebadon activity--administrative, executive, educational, and others.

Most of this corps is enlisted in assisting the Nebadon Paradise
personalities--the Union of Days, the Creator Son, the Faithfuls of Days, the
Magisterial Sons, and the Trinity Teacher Sons. Now and then in the transaction
of the affairs of a local creation it becomes wise to withhold certain details,
temporarily, from the knowledge of practically all of the native personalities
of that local universe. Certain advanced plans and complex rulings are also
better grasped and more fully understood by the more mature and farseeing corps
of Most High Assistants, and it is in such situations, and many others, that
they are so highly serviceable to the universe rulers and administrators.

5. HIGH COMMISSIONERS

The High Commissioners are Spirit-fused ascendant mortals; they are not
Adjuster fused. You quite well understand about the universe-ascension career
of a mortal candidate for Adjuster fusion, that being the high destiny in
prospect for all Urantia mortals since the bestowal of Christ Michael. But this
is not the exclusive destiny of all mortals in the prebestowal ages of worlds
like yours, and there is another type of world whose inhabitants are never
permanently indwelt by Thought Adjusters. Such mortals are never permanently
joined in union with a Mystery Monitor of Paradise bestowal; nevertheless, the
Adjusters do transiently indwell them, serving as guides and patterns for the
duration of the life in the flesh. During this temporary sojourn they foster
the evolution of an immortal soul just as in those beings with whom they hope
to fuse, but when the mortal race is run, they take eternal leave of the
creatures of temporary association.

Surviving souls of this order attain immortality by eternal fusion with an
individualized fragment of the spirit of the local universe Mother Spirit. They
are not a numerous group, at least not in Nebadon. On the mansion worlds you
will meet and fraternize with these Spirit-fused mortals as they ascend the
Paradise path with you as far as Salvington, where they stop. Some of them may
subsequently ascend to higher universe levels, but the majority will forever
re-

                                top of page - 411

main in the service of the local universe; as a class they are not destined to
attain Paradise.

Not being Adjuster fused, they never become finaliters, but they do eventually
become enrolled in the local universe Corps of Perfection. They have in spirit
obeyed the Father's command, "Be you perfect."

After attaining the Nebadon Corps of Perfection, Spirit-fused ascenders may
accept assignment as Universe Aids, this being one of the avenues of continuing
experiential growth which is open to them. Thus do they become candidates for
commissions to the high service of interpreting the viewpoints of the evolving
creatures of the material worlds to the celestial authorities of the local
universe.

The High Commissioners begin their service on the planets as race
commissioners. In this capacity they interpret the viewpoints and portray the
needs of the various human races. They are supremely devoted to the welfare of
the mortal races whose spokesmen they are, ever seeking to obtain for them
mercy, justice, and fair treatment in all relationships with other peoples.
Race commissioners function in an endless series of planetary crises and serve
as the articulate expression of whole groups of struggling mortals.

After long experience in problem solving on the inhabited worlds, these race
commissioners are advanced to the higher levels of function, eventually
attaining the status of High Commissioners of and in the local universe. The
last registration recorded slightly over one and one-half billion of these High
Commissioners in Nebadon. These beings are not finaliters, but they are
ascendant beings of long experience and of great service to their native realm.

We invariably find these commissioners in all the tribunals of justice, from
the lowest to the highest. Not that they participate in the proceedings of
justice, but they do act as friends of the court, advising the presiding
magistrates respecting the antecedents, environment, and inherent nature of
those concerned in the adjudication.

High Commissioners are attached to the various messenger hosts of space and
always to the ministering spirits of time. They are encountered on the programs
of various universe assemblies, and these same mortal-wise commissioners are
always attached to the missions of the Sons of God to the worlds of space.

Whenever fairness and justice require an understanding of how a contemplated
policy or procedure would affect the evolutionary races of time, these
commissioners are at hand to present their recommendations; they are always
present to speak for those who cannot be present to speak for themselves.

The Worlds of the Spirit-fused Mortals. The eighth group of seven primary
worlds and tributary satellites in the Salvington circuit are the exclusive
possession of the Spirit-fused mortals of Nebadon. Ascending Adjuster-fused
mortals are not concerned with these worlds except to enjoy many pleasant and
profitable sojourns as the invited guests of the Spirit-fused residents.

Except for those few who attain Uversa and Paradise, these worlds are the
permanent residence of the Spirit-fused survivors. Such designed limitation of
mortal ascent reacts to the good of the local universes by insuring the
retention of a permanent evolved population whose augmenting experience will
continue to enhance the future stabilization and diversification of the local
universe ad-

                                top of page - 412

ministration. These beings may not attain Paradise, but they achieve an
experiential wisdom in the mastery of Nebadon problems that utterly surpasses
anything attained by the transient ascenders. And these surviving souls
continue as unique combinations of the human and the divine, being increasingly
able to unite the viewpoints of these two widely separate levels and to present
such a dual viewpoint with ever-heightening wisdom.

6. CELESTIAL OVERSEERS

The Nebadon educational system is jointly administered by the Trinity Teacher
Sons and the Melchizedek teaching corps, but much of the work designed to
effect its maintenance and upbuilding is carried on by the Celestial Overseers.
These beings are a recruited corps embracing all types of individuals connected
with the scheme of educating and training the ascending mortals. There are
upward of three million of them in Nebadon, and they are all volunteers who
have qualified by experience to serve as educational advisers to the entire
realm. From their headquarters on the Salvington worlds of the Melchizedeks,
these overseers range the local universe as inspectors of the Nebadon school
technique designed to effect the mind training and the spirit education of the
ascending creatures.

This training of mind and education of spirit is carried on from the worlds of
human origin up through the system mansion worlds and the other spheres of
progress associated with Jerusem, on the seventy socializing realms attached to
Edentia, and on the four hundred and ninety spheres of spirit progress
encircling Salvington. On the universe headquarters itself are numerous
Melchizedek schools, the colleges of the Universe Sons, the seraphic
universities, and the schools of the Teacher Sons and the Union of Days. Every
possible provision is made to qualify the various personalities of the universe
for advancing service and improving function. The entire universe is one vast
school.

The methods employed in many of the higher schools are beyond the human concept
of the art of teaching truth, but this is the keynote of the whole educational
system: character acquired by enlightened experience. The teachers provide the
enlightenment; the universe station and the ascender's status afford the
opportunity for experience; the wise utilization of these two augments
character.

Fundamentally, the Nebadon educational system provides for your assignment to a
task and then affords you opportunity to receive instruction as to the ideal
and divine method of best performing that task. You are given a definite task
to perform, and at the same time you are provided with teachers who are
qualified to instruct you in the best method of executing your assignment. The
divine plan of education provides for the intimate association of work and
instruction. We teach you how best to execute the things we command you to do.

The purpose of all this training and experience is to prepare you for admission
to the higher and more spiritual training spheres of the superuniverse.
Progress within a given realm is individual, but transition from one phase to
another is usually by classes.

The progression of eternity does not consist solely in spiritual development.
Intellectual acquisition is also a part of universal education. The experience
of the mind is broadened equally with the expansion of the spiritual horizon.
Mind

                                top of page - 413

and spirit are afforded like opportunities for training and advancement. But in
all this superb training of mind and spirit you are forever free from the
handicaps of mortal flesh. No longer must you constantly referee the
conflicting contentions of your divergent spiritual and material natures. At
last you are qualified to enjoy the unified urge of a glorified mind long since
divested of primitive animalistic trends towards things material.

Before leaving the universe of Nebadon, most Urantia mortals will be afforded
opportunity to serve for a longer or shorter time as members of the Nebadon
corps of Celestial Overseers.

7. MANSION WORLD TEACHERS

The Mansion World Teachers are recruited and glorified cherubim. Like most
other instructors in Nebadon they are commissioned by the Melchizedeks. They
function in most of the educational enterprises of the morontia life, and their
number is quite beyond the comprehension of mortal mind.

As an attainment level of cherubim and sanobim, the Mansion World Teachers will
receive further consideration in the next paper, while as teachers playing an
important part in the morontia life, they will be more extensively discussed in
the paper of that name.

8. HIGHER SPIRIT ORDERS OF ASSIGNMENT

Besides the power centers and the physical controllers, certain of the
higher-origin spirit beings of the family of the Infinite Spirit are of
permanent assignment to the local universe. Of the higher spirit orders of the
family of the Infinite Spirit the following are so assigned:

The Solitary Messengers, when functionally attached to the local universe
administration, render invaluable service to us in our efforts to overcome the
handicaps of time and space. When they are not thus assigned, we of the local
universes have absolutely no authority over them, but even then these unique
beings are always willing to help us with the solution of our problems and with
the execution of our mandates.

Andovontia is the name of the tertiary Universe Circuit Supervisor  stationed
in our local universe. He is concerned only with spirit and morontia circuits,
not with those under the jurisdiction of the power directors. It was he who
isolated Urantia at the time of the Caligastia betrayal of the planet during
the testing seasons of the Lucifer rebellion. In sending greetings to the
mortals of Urantia, he expresses pleasure in the anticipation of your sometime
restoration to the universe circuits of his supervision.

The Nebadon Census Director, Salsatia, maintains headquarters within the
Gabriel sector of Salvington. He is automatically cognizant of the birth and
death of will and currently registers the exact number of will creatures
functioning in the local universe. He works in close association with the
personality recorders domiciled on the record worlds of the archangels.

An Associate Inspector is resident on Salvington. He is the personal
representative of the Supreme Executive of Orvonton.

                                top of page - 414

His associates, the Assigned Sentinels in the local systems, are also
representatives of the Supreme Executive of Orvonton.

The Universal Conciliators are the traveling courts of the universes of time
and space, functioning from the evolutionary worlds up through every section of
the local universe and on beyond. These referees are registered on Uversa; the
exact number operating in Nebadon is not of record, but I estimate that there
are in the neighborhood of one hundred million conciliating commissions in our
local universe.

Of the Technical Advisers, the legal minds of the realm, we have our quota,
about one-half billion. These beings are the living and circulating
experiential law libraries of all space.

Of the Celestial Recorders, the ascendant seraphim, we have in Nebadon
seventy-five. These are the senior or supervising recorders. The advancing
students of this order in training number almost four billion.

The ministry of the seventy billion Morontia Companions in Nebadon is described
in those narratives dealing with the transition planets of the pilgrims of
time.

Each universe has its own native angelic corps; nevertheless, there are
occasions on which it is very helpful to have the assistance of those higher
spirits of origin outside the local creation. Supernaphim perform certain rare
and unique services; the present chief of Urantia seraphim is a primary
supernaphim of Paradise. The reflective seconaphim are encountered wherever the
superuniverse personnel is functioning, and a great many tertiaphim are of
temporary service as Most High Assistants.

9. PERMANENT CITIZENS OF THE LOCAL UNIVERSE

As with the super- and central universes, the local universe has its orders of
permanent citizenship. These include the following created types:

1. Susatia.

2. Univitatia.

3. Material Sons.

4. Midway Creatures.

These natives of the local creation, together with the Spirit-fused ascenders
and the spironga (who are otherwise classified), constitute a relatively
permanent citizenship. These orders of beings are by and large neither
ascending nor descending. They are all experiential creatures, but their
enlarging experience continues to be available to the universe on their level
of origin. While this is not wholly true of the Adamic Sons and midway
creatures, it is relatively true of these orders.

The Susatia. These marvelous beings reside and function as permanent citizens
on Salvington, the headquarters of this local universe. They are the brilliant
offspring of the Creator Son and Creative Spirit and are closely associated
with the ascendant citizens of the local universe, the Spirit-fused mortals of
the Nebadon Corps of Perfection.

The Univitatia. Each of the one hundred constellation headquarters clusters of
architectural spheres enjoys the continuous ministry of a residential order of
beings known as the univitatia. These children of the Creator Son and the

                                top of page - 415

Creative Spirit constitute the permanent population of the constellation
headquarters worlds. They are nonreproducing beings existing on a plane of life
about halfway between the semimaterial status of the Material Sons domiciled on
the system headquarters and the more definitely spiritual plane of the
Spirit-fused mortals and the susatia of Salvington; but the univitatia are not
morontia beings. They accomplish for ascending mortals during the traversal of
the constellation spheres what the Havona natives contribute to the pilgrim
spirits passing through the central creation.

The Material Sons of God. When a creative liaison between the Creator Son and
the universe representative of the Infinite Spirit, the Universe Mother Spirit,
has completed its cycle, when no more offspring of the combined nature are
forthcoming, then does the Creator Son personalize in dual form his last
concept of being, thus finally confirming his own and original dual origin. In
and of himself he then creates the beautiful and superb Sons and Daughters of
the material order of universe sonship. This is the origin of the original Adam
and Eve of each local system of Nebadon. They are a reproducing order of
sonship, being created male and female. Their progeny function as the
relatively permanent citizens of a system capital, though some are commissioned
as Planetary Adams.

On a planetary mission the Material Son and Daughter are commissioned to found
the Adamic race of that world, a race designed eventually to amalgamate with
the mortal inhabitants of that sphere. Planetary Adams are both descending and
ascending Sons, but we ordinarily class them as ascending.

The Midway Creatures. In the early days of most inhabited worlds, certain
superhuman but materialized beings are of assignment, but they usually retire
upon the arrival of the Planetary Adams. The transactions of such beings and
the efforts of the Material Sons to improve the evolutionary races often result
in the appearance of a limited number of creatures who are difficult to
classify. These unique beings are often midway between the Material Sons and
the evolutionary creatures; hence their designation, midway creatures. In a
comparative sense these midwayers are the permanent citizens of the
evolutionary worlds. From the early days of the arrival of a Planetary Prince
to the far-distant time of the settling of the planet in light and life, they
are the only group of intelligent beings to remain continuously on the sphere.
On Urantia the midway ministers are in reality the actual custodians of the
planet; they are, practically speaking, the citizens of Urantia. Mortals are
indeed the physical and material inhabitants of an evolutionary world, but you
are all so short-lived; you tarry on your nativity planet such a short time.
You are born, live, die, and pass on to other worlds of evolutionary
progression. Even the superhuman beings who serve on the planets as celestial
ministers are of transient assignment; few of them are long attached to a given
sphere. The midway creatures, however, provide continuity of planetary
administration in the face of ever-changing celestial ministries and constantly
shifting mortal inhabitants. Throughout all of this never-ceasing changing and
shifting, the midway creatures remain on the planet uninterruptedly carrying on
their work.

In like manner, all divisions of the administrative organization of the local
universes and superuniverses have their more or less permanent populations,
inhabitants of citizenship status. As Urantia has its midwayers, Jerusem, your
system capital, has the Material Sons and Daughters; Edentia, your constella-

                                top of page - 416

tion headquarters, has the univitatia, while the citizens of Salvington are
twofold, the created susatia and the evolved Spirit-fused mortals. The
administrative worlds of the minor and major sectors of the superuniverses do
not have permanent citizens. But the Uversa headquarters spheres are
continuously fostered by an amazing group of beings known as the abandonters,
the creation of the unrevealed agents of the Ancients of Days and the seven
Reflective Spirits resident on the capital of Orvonton. These residential
citizens on Uversa are at present administering the routine affairs of their
world under the immediate supervision of the Uversa corps of the Son-fused
mortals. Even Havona has its native beings, and the central Isle of Light and
Life is the home of the various groups of Paradise Citizens.

10. OTHER LOCAL UNIVERSE GROUPS

Besides the seraphic and mortal orders, who will be considered in later papers,
there are numerous additional beings concerned in the maintenance and
perfecting of such a gigantic organization as the universe of Nebadon, which
even now has more than three million inhabited worlds, with ten million in
prospect. The various Nebadon types of life are much too numerous to be
catalogued in this paper, but there are two unusual orders that function
extensively on the 647,591 architectural spheres of the local universe, that
may be mentioned.

The Spironga are the spirit offspring of the Bright and Morning Star and the
Father Melchizedek. They are exempt from personality termination but are not
evolutionary or ascending beings. Neither are they functionally concerned with
the evolutionary ascension regime. They are the spirit helpers of the local
universe, executing the routine spirit tasks of Nebadon.

The Spornagia. The architectural headquarters worlds of the local universe are
real worlds--physical creations. There is much work connected with their
physical upkeep, and herein we have the assistance of a group of physical
creatures called spornagia. They are devoted to the care and culture of the
material phases of these headquarters worlds, from Jerusem to Salvington.
Spornagia are neither spirits nor persons; they are an animal order of
existence, but if you could see them, you would agree that they seem to be
perfect animals.

The various courtesy colonies are domiciled on Salvington and elsewhere. We
especially profit from the ministry of the celestial artisans on the
constellations and benefit from the activities of the reversion directors, who
operate chiefly on the capitals of the local systems.

Always there is attached to the universe service a corps of ascending mortals,
including the glorified midway creatures. These ascenders, after attaining
Salvington, are used in an almost endless variety of activities in the conduct
of universe affairs. From each level of achievement these advancing mortals
reach back and down to extend a helping hand to their fellows who follow them
in the upward climb. Such mortals of temporary sojourn on Salvington are
assigned on requisition to practically all corps of celestial personalities as
helpers, students, observers, and teachers.

There are still other types of intelligent life concerned with the
administration of a local universe, but the plan of this narrative does not
provide for the

                                top of page - 417

further revelation of these orders of creation. Enough of the life and
administration of this universe is being herewith portrayed to afford the
mortal mind a grasp of the reality and grandeur of the survival existence.
Further experience in your advancing careers will increasingly reveal these
interesting and charming beings. This narrative cannot be more than a brief
outline of the nature and work of the manifold personalities who throng the
universes of space administering these creations as enormous training schools,
schools wherein the pilgrims of time advance from life to life and from world
to world until they are lovingly dispatched from the borders of the universe of
their origin to the higher educational regime of the superuniverse and thence
on to the spirit-training worlds of Havona and eventually to Paradise and the
high destiny of the finaliters--the eternal assignment on missions not yet
revealed to the universes of time and space.

[Dictated by a Brilliant Evening Star of Nebadon, Number 1,146 of the Created
Corps.]

                                top of page - 418

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³     The Life     ³    Ministering    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³    Carrie...     ³      Spi...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
