               Urantia Book Paper 40 The Ascending Sons Of God
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Paper 40 The Ascending Sons Of God

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

AS IN many of the major groups of universe beings, seven general classes of the
Ascending Sons of God have been revealed:

1. Father-fused Mortals.

2. Son-fused Mortals.

3. Spirit-fused Mortals.

4. Evolutionary Seraphim.

5. Ascending Material Sons.

6. Translated Midwayers.

7. Personalized Adjusters.

The story of these beings, from the lowly animal-origin mortals of the
evolutionary worlds to the Personalized Adjusters of the Universal Father,
presents a glorious recital of the unstinted bestowal of divine love and
gracious condescension throughout all time and in all universes of the
far-flung creation of the Paradise Deities.

These presentations began with a description of the Deities, and group by
group, the narrative has descended the universal scale of living beings until
it has reached the lowest order of life endowed with the potential of
immortality; and now am I dispatched from Salvington--onetime a mortal of
origin on an evolutionary world of space--to elaborate and continue the recital
of the eternal purpose of the Gods respecting the ascending orders of sonship,
more particularly with regard to the mortal creatures of time and space.

Since the greater part of this narrative will be devoted to a discussion of the
three basic orders of ascending mortals, consideration will first be given to
the nonmortal ascending orders of sonship--seraphic, Adamic, midwayer, and
Adjuster.

1. EVOLUTIONARY SERAPHIM

Mortal creatures of animal origin are not the only beings privileged to enjoy
sonship; the angelic hosts also share the supernal opportunity to attain
Paradise. Guardian seraphim, through experience and service with the ascending
mortals of time, also achieve the status of ascendant sonship. Such angels
attain Paradise through Seraphington, and many are even mustered into the Corps
of Mortal Finality.

To climb to the supernal heights of finaliter sonship with God is a masterly
achievement for an angel, an accomplishment far transcending your attainment of
eternal survival through the plan of the Eternal Son and the ever-present help
of the indwelling Adjuster; but the guardian seraphim, and occasionally others,
do actually effect such ascensions.

                                top of page - 444

2. ASCENDING MATERIAL SONS

The Material Sons of God are created in the local universe along with the
Melchizedeks and their associates, who are all classified as descending Sons.
And indeed, the Planetary Adams--the Material Sons and Daughters of the
evolutionary worlds--are descending Sons, coming down to the inhabited worlds
from their spheres of origin, the capitals of the local systems.

When such an Adam and Eve are wholly successful in their joint planetary
mission as biologic uplifters, they share the destiny of the inhabitants of
their world. When such a world is settled in the advanced stages of light and
life, this faithful Material Son and Daughter are permitted to resign all
planetary administrative duties, and after being thus liberated from the
descending adventure, they are permitted to register themselves as perfected
Material Sons on the records of the local universe. Likewise, when planetary
assignment is long delayed, may the Material Sons of stationary status--the
citizens of the local systems--withdraw from the activities of their status
spheres and similarly register as perfected Material Sons. After these
formalities such liberated Adams and Eves are accredited as ascending Sons of
God and may immediately begin the long journey to Havona and Paradise, starting
at the exact point of their then present status and spiritual attainment. And
they make this journey in company with the mortal and other ascending Sons,
continuing until they have found God and have achieved the Corps of Mortal
Finality in the eternal service of the Paradise Deities.

3. TRANSLATED MIDWAYERS

Although deprived of the immediate benefits of the planetary bestowals of the
descending Sons of God, though the Paradise ascent is long deferred,
nevertheless, soon after an evolutionary planet has attained the intermediate
epochs of light and life (if not before), both groups of midway creatures are
released from planetary duty. Sometimes the majority of them are translated,
along with their human cousins, on the day of the descent of the temple of
light and the elevation of the Planetary Prince to the dignity of Planetary
Sovereign. Upon being relieved of planetary service, both orders are registered
in the local universe as ascending Sons of God and immediately begin the long
Paradise ascent by the very routes ordained for the progression of the mortal
races of the material worlds. The primary group are destined to various
finaliter corps, but the secondary or Adamic midwayers are all routed for
enrollment in the Mortal Corps of Finality.

4. PERSONALIZED ADJUSTERS

When the mortals of time fail to achieve the eternal survival of their souls in
planetary association with the spirit gifts of the Universal Father, such
failure is never in any way due to neglect of duty, ministry, service, or
devotion on the part of the Adjuster. At mortal death, such deserted Monitors
return to Divinington, and subsequently, following the adjudication of the
nonsurvivor, they may be reassigned to the worlds of time and space. Sometimes,
after repeated services of this sort or following some unusual experience, such
as

                                top of page - 445

functioning as the indwelling Adjuster of an incarnated bestowal Son, these
efficient Adjusters are personalized by the Universal Father.

Personalized Adjusters are beings of a unique and unfathomable order.
Originally of existential prepersonal status, they have experientialized by
participation in the lives and careers of the lowly mortals of the material
worlds. And since the personality bestowed upon these experienced Thought
Adjusters takes origin, and has its wellspring, in the Universal Father's
personal and continuing ministry of the bestowals of experiential personality
upon his creature creation, these Personalized Adjusters are classified as
ascending Sons of God, the highest of all such orders of sonship.

5. MORTALS OF TIME AND SPACE

Mortals represent the last link in the chain of those beings who are called
sons of God. The personal touch of the Original and Eternal Son passes on down
through a series of decreasingly divine and increasingly human personalizations
until there arrives a being much like yourselves, one you can see, hear, and
touch. And then you are made spiritually aware of the great truth which your
faith may grasp--sonship with the eternal God!

Likewise does the Original and Infinite Spirit, by a long series of
decreasingly divine and increasingly human orders, draw nearer and nearer to
the struggling creatures of the realms, reaching the limit of expression in the
angels--than whom you were created but a little lower--who personally guard and
guide you in the life journey of the mortal career of time.

God the Father does not, cannot, thus downstep himself to make such near
personal contact with the almost limitless number of ascending creatures
throughout the universe of universes. But the Father is not deprived of
personal contact with his lowly creatures; you are not without the divine
presence. Although God the Father cannot be with you by direct personality
manifestation, he is in you and of you in the identity of the indwelling
Thought Adjusters, the divine Monitors. Thus does the Father, who is the
farthest from you in personality and in spirit, draw the nearest to you in the
personality circuit and in the spirit touch of inner communion with the very
souls of his mortal sons and daughters.

Spirit identification constitutes the secret of personal survival and
determines the destiny of spiritual ascension. And since the Thought Adjusters
are the only spirits of fusion potential to be identified with man during the
life in the flesh, the mortals of time and space are primarily classified in
accordance with their relation to these divine gifts, the indwelling Mystery
Monitors. This classification is as follows:

1. Mortals of the transient or experiential Adjuster sojourn.

2. Mortals of the non-Adjuster-fusion types.

3. Mortals of Adjuster-fusion potential.

Series one--mortals of the transient or experiential Adjuster sojourn. This
series designation is temporary for any evolving planet, being used during the
early stages of all inhabited worlds except those of the second series.

Mortals of series one inhabit the worlds of space during the earlier epochs of
the evolution of mankind and embrace the most primitive types of human minds.

                                top of page - 446

On many worlds like pre-Adamic Urantia great numbers of the higher and more
advanced types of primitive men acquire survival capacity but fail to attain
Adjuster fusion. For ages upon ages, before man's ascent to the level of higher
spiritual volition, the Adjusters occupy the minds of these struggling
creatures during their short lives in the flesh, and the moment such will
creatures are indwelt by Adjusters, the group guardian angels begin to
function. While these mortals of the first series do not have personal
guardians, they do have group custodians.

An experiential Adjuster remains with a primitive human being throughout his
entire lifetime in the flesh. The Adjusters contribute much to the advancement
of primitive men but are unable to form eternal unions with such mortals. This
transient ministry of the Adjusters accomplishes two things: First, they gain
valuable and actual experience in the nature and working of the evolutionary
intellect, an experience which will be invaluable in connection with later
contacts on other worlds with beings of higher development. Second, the
transient sojourn of the Adjusters contributes much towards preparing their
mortal subjects for possible subsequent Spirit fusion. All God-seeking souls of
this type achieve eternal life through the spiritual embrace of the Mother
Spirit of the local universe, thus becoming ascending mortals of the local
universe regime. Many persons from pre-Adamic Urantia were thus advanced to the
mansion worlds of Satania.

The Gods who ordained that mortal man should climb to higher levels of
spiritual intelligence through long ages of evolutionary trials and
tribulations, take note of his status and needs at every stage of the ascent;
and always are they divinely fair and just, even charmingly merciful, in the
final judgments of these struggling mortals of the early days of the evolving
races.

Series two--mortals of the non-Adjuster-fusion types. These are specialized
types of human beings who are not able to effect eternal union with their
indwelling Adjusters. Type classification among the one-, two-, and
three-brained races is not a factor in Adjuster fusion; all such mortals are
akin, but these non-Adjuster-fusion types are a wholly different and markedly
modified order of will creatures. Many of the nonbreathers belong to this
series, and there are numerous other groups who do not ordinarily fuse with
Adjusters.

Like series number one, each member of this group enjoys the ministry of a
single Adjuster during lifetime in the flesh. During temporal life these
Adjusters do everything for their subjects of temporary indwelling that is done
on other worlds where the mortals are of fusion potential. The mortals of this
second series are often indwelt by virgin Adjusters, but the higher human types
are often in liaison with masterful and experienced Monitors.

In the ascendant plan for upstepping the animal-origin creatures, these beings
enjoy the same devoted service of the Sons of God as is extended to the Urantia
type of mortals. Seraphic co-operation with Adjusters on the nonfusion planets
is just as fully provided as on the worlds of fusion potential; the guardians
of destiny minister on such spheres just as on Urantia and similarly function
at the time of mortal survival, at which time the surviving soul becomes Spirit
fused.

When you encounter these modified mortal types on the mansion worlds, you will
find no difficulty in communicating with them. There they speak the same system
language but by a modified technique. These beings are identical with

                                top of page - 447

your order of creature life in spirit and personality manifestations, differing
only in certain physical features and in the fact that they are nonfusible with
Thought Adjusters.

As to just why this type of creature is never able to fuse with the Adjusters
of the Universal Father, I am unable to say. Some of us incline to the belief
that the Life Carriers, in their efforts to formulate beings capable of
maintaining existence in an unusual planetary environment, are confronted with
the necessity of making such radical modifications in the universe plan of
intelligent will creatures that it becomes inherently impossible to bring about
permanent union with the Adjusters. Often have we asked: Is this an intended or
an unintended part of the ascension plan? but we have not found the answer.

Series three--mortals of Adjuster-fusion potential. All Father-fused mortals
are of animal origin, just like the Urantia races. They embrace mortals of the
one-brained, two-brained, and three-brained types of Adjuster-fusion potential.
Urantians are of the intermediate or two-brained type, being in many ways
humanly superior to the one-brained groups but definitely limited in comparison
with the three-brained orders. These three types of physical-brain endowment
are not factors in Adjuster bestowal, in seraphic service, or in any other
phase of spirit ministry. The intellectual and spiritual differential between
the three brain types characterizes individuals who are otherwise quite alike
in mind endowment and spiritual potential, being greatest in the temporal life
and tending to diminish as the mansion worlds are traversed one by one. From
the system headquarters on, the progression of these three types is the same,
and their eventual Paradise destiny is identical.

The unnumbered series. These narratives cannot possibly embrace all of the
fascinating variations in the evolutionary worlds. You know that every tenth
world is a decimal or experimental planet, but you know nothing of the other
variables that punctuate the processional of the evolutionary spheres. There
are differences too numerous to narrate even between the revealed orders of
living creatures as between planets of the same group, but this presentation
makes clear the essential differences in relation to the ascension career. And
the ascension career is the most important factor in any consideration of the
mortals of time and space.

As to the chances of mortal survival, let it be made forever clear: All souls
of every possible phase of mortal existence will survive provided they manifest
willingness to co-operate with their indwelling Adjusters and exhibit a desire
to find God and to attain divine perfection, even though these desires be but
the first faint flickers of the primitive comprehension of that "true light
which lights every man who comes into the world."

6. THE FAITH SONS OF GOD

The mortal races stand as the representatives of the lowest order of
intelligent and personal creation. You mortals are divinely beloved, and every
one of you may choose to accept the certain destiny of a glorious experience,
but you are not yet by nature of the divine order; you are wholly mortal. You
will be reckoned as ascending sons the instant fusion takes place, but the
status of the mortals of time and space is that of faith sons prior to the
event of the final

                                top of page - 448

amalgamation of the surviving mortal soul with some type of eternal and
immortal spirit.

It is a solemn and supernal fact that such lowly and material creatures as
Urantia human beings are the sons of God, faith children of the Highest.
"Behold, what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us that we should be
called the sons of God." "As many as received him, to them gave he the power to
recognize that they are the sons of God." While "it does not yet appear what
you shall be," even now "you are the faith sons of God"; "for you have not
received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you have received the spirit
of sonship, whereby you cry, `our Father.'" Spoke the prophet of old in the
name of the eternal God: "Even to them will I give in my house a place and a
name better than sons; I will give them an everlasting name, one that shall not
be cut off." "And because you are sons, God has sent forth the spirit of his
Son into your hearts."

All evolutionary worlds of mortal habitation harbor these faith sons of God,
sons of grace and mercy, mortal beings belonging to the divine family and
accordingly called the sons of God. Urantia mortals are entitled to regard
themselves as being the sons of God because:

1. You are sons of spiritual promise, faith sons; you have accepted the status
of sonship. You believe in the reality of your sonship, and thus does your
sonship with God become eternally real.

2. A Creator Son of God became one of you; he is your elder brother in fact;
and if in spirit you become truly related brothers of Christ, the victorious
Michael, then in spirit must you also be sons of that Father which you have in
common--even the Universal Father of all.

3. You are sons because the spirit of a Son has been poured out upon you, has
been freely and certainly bestowed upon all Urantia races. This spirit ever
draws you toward the divine Son, who is its source, and toward the Paradise
Father, who is the source of that divine Son.

4. Of his divine free-willness, the Universal Father has given you your
creature personalities. You have been endowed with a measure of that divine
spontaneity of freewill action which God shares with all who may become his
sons.

5. There dwells within you a fragment of the Universal Father, and you are thus
directly related to the divine Father of all the Sons of God.

7. FATHER-FUSED MORTALS

The sending of Adjusters, their indwelling, is indeed one of the unfathomable
mysteries of God the Father. These fragments of the divine nature of the
Universal Father carry with them the potential of creature immortality.
Adjusters are immortal spirits, and union with them confers eternal life upon
the soul of the fused mortal.

Your own races of surviving mortals belong to this group of the ascending Sons
of God. You are now planetary sons, evolutionary creatures derived from the
Life Carrier implantations and modified by the Adamic-life infusion, hardly yet
ascending sons; but you are indeed sons of ascension potential--even to the
highest heights of glory and divinity attainment--and this spiritual status of
ascending sonship you may attain by faith and by freewill co-operation with the

                                top of page - 449

spiritualizing activities of the indwelling Adjuster. When you and your
Adjuster are finally and forever fused, when you two are made one, even as in
Christ Michael the Son of God and the Son of Man are one, then in fact have you
become the ascending sons of God.

The details of the Adjuster career of indwelling ministry on a probationary and
evolutionary planet are not a part of my assignment; the elaboration of this
great truth embraces your whole career. I include the mention of certain
Adjuster functions in order to make a replete statement regarding
Adjuster-fused mortals. These indwelling fragments of God are with your order
of being from the early days of physical existence through all of the ascending
career in Nebadon and Orvonton and on through Havona to Paradise itself.
Thereafter, in the eternal adventure, this same Adjuster is one with you and of
you.

These are the mortals who have been commanded by the Universal Father, "Be you
perfect, even as I am perfect." The Father has bestowed himself upon you,
placed his own spirit within you; therefore does he demand ultimate perfection
of you. The narrative of human ascent from the mortal spheres of time to the
divine realms of eternity constitutes an intriguing recital not included in my
assignment, but this supernal adventure should be the supreme study of mortal
man.

Fusion with a fragment of the Universal Father is equivalent to a divine
validation of eventual Paradise attainment, and such Adjuster-fused mortals are
the only class of human beings who all traverse the Havona circuits and find
God on Paradise. To the Adjuster-fused mortal the career of universal service
is wide open. What dignity of destiny and glory of attainment await every one
of you! Do you fully appreciate what has been done for you? Do you comprehend
the grandeur of the heights of eternal achievement which are spread out before
you?--even you who now trudge on in the lowly path of life through your
so-called "vale of tears"?

8. SON-FUSED MORTALS

While practically all surviving mortals are fused with their Adjusters on one
of the mansion worlds or immediately upon their arrival on the higher morontia
spheres, there are certain cases of delayed fusion, some not experiencing this
final surety of survival until they reach the last educational worlds of the
universe headquarters; and a few of these mortal candidates for never-ending
life utterly fail to attain identity fusion with their faithful Adjusters.

Such mortals have been deemed worthy of survival by the adjudicational
authorities, and even their Adjusters, by returning from Divinington, have
concurred in their ascension to the mansion worlds. Such beings have ascended
through a system, a constellation, and through the educational worlds of the
Salvington circuit; they have enjoyed the "seventy times seven" opportunities
for fusion and still have been unable to attain oneness with their Adjusters.

When it becomes apparent that some synchronizing difficulty is inhibiting
Father fusion, the survival referees of the Creator Son are convened. And when
this court of inquiry, sanctioned by a personal representative of the Ancients
of Days, finally determines that the ascending mortal is not guilty of any
discoverable cause for failure to attain fusion, they so certify on the records
of the local universe and duly transmit this finding to the Ancients of Days.
Thereupon does the indwelling Adjuster return forthwith to Divinington for con-

                                top of page - 450

firmation by the Personalized Monitors, and upon this leave-taking the morontia
mortal is immediately fused with an individualized gift of the spirit of the
Creator Son.

Much as the morontia spheres of Nebadon are shared with the Spirit-fused
mortals, so do these Son-fused creatures share the services of Orvonton with
their Adjuster-fused brethren who are journeying inward towards the far-distant
Isle of Paradise. They are truly your brethren, and you will greatly enjoy
their association as you pass through the training worlds of the superuniverse.

Son-fused mortals are not a numerous group, there being less than one million
of them in the superuniverse of Orvonton. Aside from residential destiny on
Paradise they are in every way the equals of their Adjuster-fused associates.
They frequently journey to Paradise on superuniverse assignment but seldom
permanently reside there, being, as a class, confined to the superuniverse of
their nativity.

9. SPIRIT-FUSED MORTALS

Ascending Spirit-fused mortals are not Third Source personalities; they are
included in the Father's personality circuit, but they have fused with
individualizations of the premind spirit of the Third Source and Center. Such
Spirit fusion never occurs during the span of natural life; it takes place only
at the time of mortal reawakening in the morontia existence on the mansion
worlds. In the fusion experience there is no overlapping; the will creature is
either Spirit fused, Son fused, or Father fused. Those who are Adjuster or
Father fused are never Spirit or Son fused.

The fact that these types of mortal creatures are not Adjuster-fusion
candidates does not prevent the Adjusters from indwelling them during the life
in the flesh. Adjusters do work in the minds of such beings during the span of
material life but never become everlastingly one with their pupil souls. During
this temporary sojourn the Adjusters effectively build up the same spirit
counterpart of mortal nature--the soul--that they do in the candidates for
Adjuster fusion. Up to the time of mortal death the work of the Adjusters is
wholly akin to their function in your own races, but upon mortal dissolution
the Adjusters take eternal leave of these Spirit-fusion candidates and,
proceeding directly to Divinington, the headquarters of all divine Monitors,
there await the new assignments of their order.

When such sleeping survivors are repersonalized on the mansion worlds, the
place of the departed Adjuster is filled by an individualization of the spirit
of the Divine Minister, the representative of the Infinite Spirit in the local
universe concerned. This spirit infusion constitutes these surviving creatures
Spirit-fused mortals. Such beings are in every way your equals in mind and
spirit; and they are indeed your contemporaries, sharing the mansion and
morontia spheres in common with your order of fusion candidates and with those
who are to be Son fused.

There is, however, one particular in which Spirit-fused mortals differ from
their ascendant brethren: Mortal memory of human experience on the material
worlds of origin survives death in the flesh because the indwelling Adjuster
has

                                top of page - 451

acquired a spirit counterpart, or transcript, of those events of human life
which were of spiritual significance. But with Spirit-fused mortals there
exists no such mechanism whereby human memory may persist. The Adjuster
transcripts of memory are full and intact, but these acquisitions are
experiential possessions of the departed Adjusters and are not available to the
creatures of their former indwelling, who therefore awaken in the resurrection
halls of the morontia spheres of Nebadon as if they were newly created beings,
creatures without consciousness of former existence.

Such children of the local universe are enabled to repossess themselves of much
of their former human memory experience through having it retold by the
associated seraphim and cherubim and by consulting the records of the mortal
career filed by the recording angels. This they can do with undoubted assurance
because the surviving soul, of experiential origin in the material and mortal
life, while having no memory of mortal events, does have a residual
experiential-recognition-response to these unremembered events of past
experience.

When a Spirit-fused mortal is told about the events of the unremembered past
experience, there is an immediate response of experiential recognition within
the soul (identity) of such a survivor which instantly invests the narrated
event with the emotional tinge of reality and with the intellectual quality of
fact; and this dual response constitutes the reconstruction, recognition, and
validation of an unremembered facet of mortal experience.

Even with Adjuster-fusion candidates, only those human experiences which were
of spiritual value are common possessions of the surviving mortal and the
returning Adjuster and hence are immediately remembered subsequent to mortal
survival. Concerning those happenings which were not of spiritual significance,
even these Adjuster-fusers must depend upon the attribute of
recognition-response in the surviving soul. And since any one event may have a
spiritual connotation to one mortal but not to another, it becomes possible for
a group of contemporary ascenders from the same planet to pool their store of
Adjuster-remembered events and thus to reconstruct any experience which they
had in common, and which was of spiritual value in the life of any one of them.

While we understand such techniques of memory reconstruction fairly well, we do
not grasp the technique of personality recognition. Personalities of onetime
association mutually respond quite independently of the operation of memory,
albeit, memory itself and the techniques of its reconstruction are necessary to
invest such mutual personality response with the fullness of recognition.

A Spirit-fused survivor is also able to learn much about the life he lived in
the flesh by revisiting his nativity world subsequent to the planetary
dispensation in which he lived. Such children of Spirit fusion are enabled to
enjoy these opportunities for investigating their human careers since they are
in general confined to the service of the local universe. They do not share
your high and exalted destiny in the Paradise Corps of the Finality; only
Adjuster-fused mortals or other especially embraced ascendant beings are
mustered into the ranks of those who await the eternal Deity adventure.
Spirit-fused mortals are the permanent citizens of the local universes; they
may aspire to Paradise destiny, but they cannot be sure of it. In Nebadon their
universe home is the eighth group of worlds encircling Salvington, a
destiny-heaven of nature and location much like the one envisioned by the
planetary traditions of Urantia.

                                top of page - 452

10. ASCENDANT DESTINIES

Spirit-fused mortals are, generally speaking, confined to a local universe;
Son-fused survivors are restricted to a superuniverse; Adjuster-fused mortals
are destined to penetrate the universe of universes. The spirits of mortal
fusion always ascend to the level of origin; such spirit entities unfailingly
return to the sphere of primal source.

Spirit-fused mortals are of the local universe; they do not, ordinarily, ascend
beyond the confines of their native realm, beyond the boundaries of the space
range of the spirit that pervades them. Son-fused ascenders likewise rise to
the source of spirit endowment, for much as the Truth Spirit of a Creator Son
focalizes in the associated Divine Minister, so is his "fusion spirit"
implemented in the Reflective Spirits of the higher universes. Such spirit
relationship between the local and the superuniverse levels of God the
Sevenfold may be difficult of explanation but not of discernment, being
unmistakably revealed in those children of the Reflective Spirits--the
secoraphic Voices of the Creator Sons. The Thought Adjuster, hailing from the
Father on Paradise, never stops until the mortal son stands face to face with
the eternal God.

The mysterious variable in associative technique whereby a mortal being does
not or cannot become eternally fused with the indwelling Thought Adjuster may
seem to disclose a flaw in the ascension scheme; Son and Spirit fusion do,
superficially, resemble compensations of unexplained failures in some detail of
the Paradise-attainment plan; but all such conclusions stand in error; we are
taught that all these happenings unfold in obedience to the established laws of
the Supreme Universe Rulers.

We have analyzed this problem and have reached the undoubted conclusion that
the consignment of all mortals to an ultimate Paradise destiny would be unfair
to the time-space universes inasmuch as the courts of the Creator Sons and of
the Ancients of Days would then be wholly dependent on the services of those
who were in transit to higher realms. And it does seem to be no more than
fitting that the local and the superuniverse governments should each be
provided with a permanent group of ascendant citizenship; that the functions of
these administrations should be enriched by the efforts of certain groups of
glorified mortals who are of permanent status, evolutionary complements of the
abandonters and of the susatia. Now it is quite obvious that the present
ascension scheme effectively provides the time-space administrations with just
such groups of ascendant creatures; and we have many times wondered: Does all
this represent an intended part of the all-wise plans of the Architects of the
Master Universe designed to provide the Creator Sons and the Ancients of Days
with a permanent ascendant population? with evolved orders of citizenship that
will become increasingly competent to carry forward the affairs of these realms
in the universe ages to come?

That mortal destinies do thus vary in no wise proves that one is necessarily
greater or lesser than another, merely that they differ. Adjuster-fused
ascenders do indeed have a grand and glorious career as finaliters spread out
before them in the eternal future, but this does not mean that they are
preferred above their ascendant brethren. There is no favoritism, nothing
arbitrary, in the selective operation of the divine plan of mortal survival.

                                top of page - 453

While the Adjuster-fused finaliters obviously enjoy the widest service
opportunity of all, the attainment of this goal automatically shuts them off
from the chance to participate in the agelong struggle of some one universe or
superuniverse, from the earlier and less settled epochs to the later and
established eras of relative perfection attainment. Finaliters acquire a
marvelous and far-flung experience of transient service in all seven segments
of the grand universe, but they do not ordinarily acquire that intimate
knowledge of any one universe which even now characterizes the Spirit-fused
veterans of the Nebadon Corps of Completion. These individuals enjoy an
opportunity to witness the ascending processional of the planetary ages as they
unfold one by one on ten million inhabited worlds. And in the faithful service
of such local universe citizens, experience superimposes upon experience until
the fullness of time ripens that high quality of wisdom which is engendered by
focalized experience--authoritative wisdom--and this in itself is a vital
factor in the settling of any local universe.

As it is with the Spirit fusers, so is it with those Son-fused mortals who have
achieved residential status on Uversa. Some of these beings hail from the
earliest epochs of Orvonton, and they represent a slowly accumulating body of
insight-deepening wisdom which is making ever-augmenting service contributions
to the welfare and eventual settlement of the seventh superuniverse.

What the ultimate destiny of these stationary orders of local and of
superuniverse citizenship will be we do not know, but it is quite possible
that, when the Paradise finaliters are pioneering the expanding frontiers of
divinity in the planetary systems of the first outer space level, their Son-
and Spirit-fused brethren of the ascendant evolutionary struggle will be
acceptably contributing to the maintenance of the experiential equilibrium of
the perfected superuniverses while they stand ready to welcome the incoming
stream of Paradise pilgrims who may, at that distant day, pour in through
Orvonton and its sister creations as a vast spirit-questing torrent from these
now uncharted and uninhabited galaxies of outer space.

While the majority of Spirit fusers serve permanently as citizens of the local
universes, all do not. If some phase of their universe ministry should require
their personal presence in the superuniverse, then would such transformations
of being be wrought in these citizens as would enable them to ascend to the
higher universe; and upon the arrival of the Celestial Guardians with orders to
present such Spirit-fused mortals at the courts of the Ancients of Days, they
would so ascend, never to return. They become wards of the superuniverse,
serving as assistants to the Celestial Guardians and permanently, save for
those few who are in turn summoned to the service of Paradise and Havona.

Like their Spirit-fused brethren, the Son fusers neither traverse Havona nor
attain Paradise unless they have undergone certain modifying transformations.
For good and sufficient reasons, such changes have been wrought in certain
Son-fused survivors, and these beings are to be encountered ever and anon on
the seven circuits of the central universe. Thus it is that certain numbers of
both the Son- and the Spirit-fused mortals do actually ascend to Paradise, do
attain a goal in many ways equal to that which awaits the Father-fused mortals.

Father-fused mortals are potential finaliters; their destination is the
Universal Father, and him they do attain, but within the purview of the present
uni-

                                top of page - 454

verse age, finaliters, as such, are not destiny attainers. They remain
unfinished creatures--sixth-stage spirits--and hence nonactive in the
evolutionary domains of prelight-and-life status.

When a mortal finaliter is Trinity embraced--becomes a Trinitized Son, such as
a Mighty Messenger--then has that finaliter attained destiny, at least for the
present universe age. Mighty Messengers and their fellows may not in the exact
sense be seventh-stage spirits, but in addition to other things the Trinity
embrace endows them with everything which a finaliter will sometime achieve as
a seventh-stage spirit. After Spirit-fused or Son-fused mortals are trinitized,
they pass through the Paradise experience with the Adjuster-fused ascenders,
with whom they are then identical in all matters pertaining to superuniverse
administration. These Trinitized Sons of Selection or of Attainment at least
for now are finished creatures, in contrast to the finaliters, who are at
present unfinished creatures.

Thus, in the final analysis, it would be hardly proper to use the words
"greater" or "lesser" in contrasting the destinies of the ascending orders of
sonship. Every such son of God shares the fatherhood of God, and God loves each
of his creature sons alike; he is no more a respecter of ascendant destinies
than is he of the creatures who may attain such destinies. The Father loves
each of his sons, and that affection is not less than true, holy, divine,
unlimited, eternal, and unique--a love bestowed upon this son and upon that
son, individually, personally, and exclusively. And such a love utterly
eclipses all other facts. Sonship is the supreme relationship of the creature
to the Creator.

As mortals you can now recognize your place in the family of divine sonship and
begin to sense the obligation to avail yourselves of the advantages so freely
provided in and by the Paradise plan for mortal survival, which plan has been
so enhanced and illuminated by the life experience of a bestowal Son. Every
facility and all power have been provided for insuring your ultimate attainment
of the Paradise goal of divine perfection.

[Presented by a Mighty Messenger temporarily attached to the staff of Gabriel
of Salvington.]

                                top of page - 455

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   The Seraphic   ³     Physical      ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Ho...       ³     Aspect...     ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
