                Urantia Book Paper 42 Energy--mind And Matter
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Paper 42 Energy--mind And Matter

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE foundation of the universe is material in the sense that energy is the
basis of all existence, and pure energy is controlled by the Universal Father.
Force, energy, is the one thing which stands as an everlasting monument
demonstrating and proving the existence and presence of the Universal Absolute.
This vast stream of energy proceeding from the Paradise Presences has never
lapsed, never failed; there has never been a break in the infinite upholding.

The manipulation of universe energy is ever in accordance with the personal
will and the all-wise mandates of the Universal Father. This personal control
of manifested power and circulating energy is modified by the co-ordinate acts
and decisions of the Eternal Son, as well as by the united purposes of the Son
and the Father executed by the Conjoint Actor. These divine beings act
personally and as individuals; they also function in the persons and powers of
an almost unlimited number of subordinates, each variously expressive of the
eternal and divine purpose in the universe of universes. But these functional
and provisional modifications or transmutations of divine power in no way
lessen the truth of the statement that all force-energy is under the ultimate
control of a personal God resident at the center of all things.

1. PARADISE FORCES AND ENERGIES

The foundation of the universe is material, but the essence of life is spirit.
The Father of spirits is also the ancestor of universes; the eternal Father of
the Original Son is also the eternity-source of the original pattern, the Isle
of Paradise.

Matter--energy--for they are but diverse manifestations of the same cosmic
reality, as a universe phenomenon is inherent in the Universal Father. "In him
all things consist." Matter may appear to manifest inherent energy and to
exhibit self-contained powers, but the lines of gravity involved in the
energies concerned in all these physical phenomena are derived from, and are
dependent on, Paradise. The ultimaton, the first measurable form of energy, has
Paradise as its nucleus.

There is innate in matter and present in universal space a form of energy not
known on Urantia. When this discovery is finally made, then will physicists
feel that they have solved, almost at least, the mystery of matter. And so will
they have approached one step nearer the Creator; so will they have mastered
one more phase of the divine technique; but in no sense will they have found

                                top of page - 468

God, neither will they have established the existence of matter or the
operation of natural laws apart from the cosmic technique of Paradise and the
motivating purpose of the Universal Father.

Subsequent to even still greater progress and further discoveries, after
Urantia has advanced immeasurably in comparison with present knowledge, though
you should gain control of the energy revolutions of the electrical units of
matter to the extent of modifying their physical manifestations--even after all
such possible progress, forever will scientists be powerless to create one atom
of matter or to originate one flash of energy or ever to add to matter that
which we call life.

The creation of energy and the bestowal of life are the prerogatives of the
Universal Father and his associate Creator personalities. The river of energy
and life is a continuous outpouring from the Deities, the universal and united
stream of Paradise force going forth to all space. This divine energy pervades
all creation. The force organizers initiate those changes and institute those
modifications of space-force which eventuate in energy; the power directors
transmute energy into matter; thus the material worlds are born. The Life
Carriers initiate those processes in dead matter which we call life, material
life. The Morontia Power Supervisors likewise perform throughout the transition
realms between the material and the spiritual worlds. The higher spirit
Creators inaugurate similar processes in divine forms of energy, and there
ensue the higher spirit forms of intelligent life.

Energy proceeds from Paradise, fashioned after the divine order. Energy--pure
energy--partakes of the nature of the divine organization; it is fashioned
after the similitude of the three Gods embraced in one, as they function at the
headquarters of the universe of universes. And all force is circuited in
Paradise, comes from the Paradise Presences and returns thereto, and is in
essence a manifestation of the uncaused Cause--the Universal Father; and
without the Father would not anything exist that does exist.

Force derived from self-existent Deity is in itself ever existent. Force-energy
is imperishable, indestructible; these manifestations of the Infinite may be
subject to unlimited transmutation, endless transformation, and eternal
metamorphosis; but in no sense or degree, not even to the slightest imaginable
extent, could they or ever shall they suffer extinction. But energy, though
springing from the Infinite, is not infinitely manifest; there are outer limits
to the presently conceived master universe.

Energy is eternal but not infinite; it ever responds to the all-embracing grasp
of Infinity. Forever force and energy go on; having gone out from Paradise,
they must return thereto, even if age upon age be required for the completion
of the ordained circuit. That which is of Paradise Deity origin can have only a
Paradise destination or a Deity destiny.

And all this confirms our belief in a circular, somewhat limited, but orderly
and far-flung universe of universes. If this were not true, then evidence of
energy depletion at some point would sooner or later appear. All laws,
organizations, administration, and the testimony of universe
explorers--everything points to the existence of an infinite God but, as yet, a
finite universe, a circularity of endless existence, well-nigh limitless but,
nevertheless, finite in contrast with infinity.

                                top of page - 469

2. UNIVERSAL NONSPIRITUAL ENERGY SYSTEMS

It is indeed difficult to find suitable words in the English language whereby
to designate and wherewith to describe the various levels of force and
energy--physical, mindal, or spiritual. These narratives cannot altogether
follow your accepted definitions of force, energy, and power. There is such
paucity of language that we must use these terms in multiple meanings. In this
paper, for example, the word energy is used to denote all phases and forms of
phenomenal motion, action, and potential, while force is applied to the
pregravity, and power to the postgravity, stages of energy.

I will, however, endeavor to lessen conceptual confusion by suggesting the
advisability of adopting the following classification for cosmic force,
emergent energy, and universe power--physical energy:

1. Space potency. This is the unquestioned free space presence of the
Unqualified Absolute. The extension of this concept connotes the universe
force-space potential inherent in the functional totality of the Unqualified
Absolute, while the intension of this concept implies the totality of cosmic
reality--universes--which emanated eternitywise from the never-beginning,
never-ending, never-moving, never-changing Isle of Paradise.

The phenomena indigenous to the nether side of Paradise probably embrace three
zones of absolute force presence and performance: the fulcral zone of the
Unqualified Absolute, the zone of the Isle of Paradise itself, and the
intervening zone of certain unidentified equalizing and compensating agencies
or functions. These triconcentric zones are the centrum of the Paradise cycle
of cosmic reality.

Space potency is a prereality; it is the domain of the Unqualified Absolute and
is responsive only to the personal grasp of the Universal Father,
notwithstanding that it is seemingly modifiable by the presence of the Primary
Master Force Organizers.

On Uversa, space potency is spoken of as ABSOLUTA.

2. Primordial force. This represents the first basic change in space potency
and may be one of the nether Paradise functions of the Unqualified Absolute. We
know that the space presence going out from nether Paradise is modified in some
manner from that which is incoming. But regardless of any such possible
relationships, the openly recognized transmutation of space potency into
primordial force is the primary differentiating function of the
tension-presence of the living Paradise force organizers.

Passive and potential force becomes active and primordial in response to the
resistance afforded by the space presence of the Primary Eventuated Master
Force Organizers. Force is now emerging from the exclusive domain of the
Unqualified Absolute into the realms of multiple response--response to certain
primal motions initiated by the God of Action and thereupon to certain
compensating motions emanating from the Universal Absolute. Primordial force is
seemingly reactive to transcendental causation in proportion to absoluteness.

Primordial force is sometimes spoken of as pure energy; on Uversa we refer to
it as SEGREGATA.

                                top of page - 470

3. Emergent energies. The passive presence of the primary force organizers is
sufficient to transform space potency into primordial force, and it is upon
such an activated space field that these same force organizers begin their
initial and active operations. Primordial force is destined to pass through two
distinct phases of transmutation in the realms of energy manifestation before
appearing as universe power. These two levels of emerging energy are:

a. Puissant energy. This is the powerful-directional, mass-movemented,
mighty-tensioned, and forcible-reacting energy--gigantic energy systems set in
motion by the activities of the primary force organizers. This primary or
puissant energy is not at first definitely responsive to the Paradise-gravity
pull though probably yielding an aggregate-mass or space-directional response
to the collective group of absolute influences operative from the nether side
of Paradise. When energy emerges to the level of initial response to the
circular and absolute-gravity grasp of Paradise, the primary force organizers
give way to the functioning of their secondary associates.

b. Gravity energy. The now-appearing gravity-responding energy carries the
potential of universe power and becomes the active ancestor of all universe
matter. This secondary or gravity energy is the product of the energy
elaboration resulting from the pressure-presence and the tension-trends set up
by the Associate Transcendental Master Force Organizers. In response to the
work of these force manipulators, space-energy rapidly passes from the puissant
to the gravity stage, thus becoming directly responsive to the circular grasp
of Paradise (absolute) gravity while disclosing a certain potential for
sensitivity to the linear-gravity pull inherent in the soon appearing material
mass of the electronic and the postelectronic stages of energy and matter. Upon
the appearance of gravity response, the Associate Master Force Organizers may
retire from the energy cyclones of space provided the Universe Power Directors
are assignable to that field of action.

We are quite uncertain regarding the exact causes of the early stages of force
evolution, but we recognize the intelligent action of the Ultimate in both
levels of emergent-energy manifestation. Puissant and gravity energies, when
regarded collectively, are spoken of on Uversa as ULTIMATA.

4. Universe power. Space-force has been changed into space-energy and thence
into the energy of gravity control. Thus has physical energy been ripened to
that point where it can be directed into channels of power and made to serve
the manifold purposes of the universe Creators. This work is carried on by the
versatile directors, centers, and controllers of physical energy in the grand
universe--the organized and inhabited creations. These Universe Power Directors
assume the more or less complete control of twenty-one of the thirty phases of
energy constituting the present energy system of the seven superuniverses. This
domain of power-energy-matter is the realm of the intelligent activities of the
Sevenfold, functioning under the time-space overcontrol of the Supreme.

On Uversa we refer to the realm of universe power as

5. Havona energy. In concept this narrative has been moving Paradiseward as
transmuting space-force has been followed, level by level, to the working level
of the energy-power of the universes of time and space. Continuing
Paradiseward, there is next encountered a pre-existent phase of energy which is
characteristic of the central universe. Here the evolutionary cycle seems to

                                top of page - 471

turn back upon itself; energy-power now seems to begin to swing back towards
force, but force of a nature very unlike that of space potency and primordial
force. Havona energy systems are not dual; they are triune. This is the
existential energy domain of the Conjoint Actor, functioning in behalf of the
Paradise Trinity.

On Uversa these energies of Havona are known as TRIATA.

6. Transcendental energy. This energy system operates on and from the upper
level of Paradise and only in connection with the absonite peoples. On Uversa
it is denominated TRANOSTA.

7. Monota. Energy is close of kin to divinity when it is Paradise energy. We
incline to the belief that monota is the living, nonspirit energy of
Paradise--an eternity counterpart of the living, spirit energy of the Original
Son--hence the nonspiritual energy system of the Universal Father.

We cannot differentiate the nature of Paradise spirit and Paradise monota; they
are apparently alike. They have different names, but you can hardly be told
very much about a reality whose spiritual and whose nonspiritual manifestations
are distinguishable only by name.

We know that finite creatures can attain the worship experience of the
Universal Father through the ministry of God the Sevenfold and the Thought
Adjusters, but we doubt that any subabsolute personality, even power directors,
can comprehend the energy infinity of the First Great Source and Center. One
thing is certain: If the power directors are conversant with the technique of
the metamorphosis of space-force, they do not reveal the secret to the rest of
us. It is my opinion that they do not fully comprehend the function of the
force organizers.

These power directors themselves are energy catalyzers; that is, they cause
energy to segment, organize, or assemble in unit formation by their presence.
And all this implies that there must be something inherent in energy which
causes it thus to function in the presence of these power entities. The Nebadon
Melchizedeks long since denominated the phenomenon of the transmutation of
cosmic force into universe power as one of the seven "infinities of divinity."
And that is as far as you will advance on this point during your local universe
ascension.

Notwithstanding our inability fully to comprehend the origin, nature, and
transmutations of cosmic force, we are fully conversant with all phases of
emergent-energy behavior from the times of its direct and unmistakable response
to the action of Paradise gravity--about the time of the beginning of the
function of the superuniverse power directors.

3. CLASSIFICATION OF MATTER

Matter in all universes, excepting in the central universe, is identical.
Matter in its physical properties depends on the revolutionary rates of its
component members, the number and size of the revolving members, their distance
from the nuclear body or the space content of matter, as well as on the
presence of certain forces as yet undiscovered on Urantia.

In the varied suns, planets, and space bodies there are ten grand divisions of
matter:

                                top of page - 472

1. Ultimatonic matter--the prime physical units of material existence, the
energy particles which go to make up electrons.

2. Subelectronic matter--the explosive and repellent stage of the solar
supergases.

3. Electronic matter--the electrical stage of material
differentiation--electrons, protons, and various other units entering into the
varied constitution of the electronic groups.

4. Subatomic matter--matter existing extensively in the interior of the hot
suns.

5. Shattered atoms--found in the cooling suns and throughout space.

6. Ionized matter--individual atoms stripped of their outer (chemically active)
electrons by electrical, thermal, or X-ray activities and by solvents.

7. Atomic matter--the chemical stage of elemental organization, the component
units of molecular or visible matter.

8. The molecular stage of matter--matter as it exists on Urantia in a state of
relatively stable materialization under ordinary conditions.

9. Radioactive matter--the disorganizing tendency and activity of the heavier
elements under conditions of moderate heat and diminished gravity pressure.

10. Collapsed matter--the relatively stationary matter found in the interior of
the cold or dead suns. This form of matter is not really stationary; there is
still some ultimatonic, even electronic activity, but these units are in very
close proximity, and their rates of revolution are greatly diminished.

The foregoing classification of matter pertains to its organization rather than
to the forms of its appearance to created beings. Neither does it take into
account the pre-emergent stages of energy nor the eternal materializations on
Paradise and in the central universe.

4. ENERGY AND MATTER TRANSMUTATIONS

Light, heat, electricity, magnetism, chemism, energy, and matter are--in
origin, nature, and destiny--one and the same thing, together with other
material realities as yet undiscovered on Urantia.

We do not fully comprehend the almost endless changes to which physical energy
may be subject. In one universe it appears as light, in another as light plus
heat, in another as forms of energy unknown on Urantia; in untold millions of
years it may reappear as some form of restless, surging electrical energy or
magnetic power; and still later on it may again appear in a subsequent universe
as some form of variable matter going through a series of metamorphoses, to be
followed by its outward physical disappearance in some great cataclysm of the
realms. And then, after countless ages and almost endless wandering through
numberless universes, again may this same energy re-emerge and many times
change its form and potential; and so do these transformations continue through
successive ages and throughout countless realms. Thus matter sweeps on,
undergoing the transmutations of time but swinging ever true to the circle of
eternity; even if long prevented from returning to its source, it is ever
responsive thereto, and it ever proceeds in the path ordained by the Infinite
Personality who sent it forth.

                                top of page - 473

The power centers and their associates are much concerned in the work of
transmuting the ultimaton into the circuits and revolutions of the electron.
These unique beings control and compound power by their skillful manipulation
of the basic units of materialized energy, the ultimatons. They are masters of
energy as it circulates in this primitive state. In liaison with the physical
controllers they are able to effectively control and direct energy even after
it has transmuted to the electrical level, the so-called electronic stage. But
their range of action is enormously curtailed when electronically organized
energy swings into the whirls of the atomic systems. Upon such materialization,
these energies fall under the complete grasp of the drawing power of linear
gravity.

Gravity acts positively on the power lanes and energy channels of the power
centers and the physical controllers, but these beings have only a negative
relation to gravity--the exercise of their antigravity endowments.

Throughout all space, cold and other influences are at work creatively
organizing ultimatons into electrons. Heat is the measurement of electronic
activity, while cold merely signifies absence of heat--comparative energy
rest--the status of the universal force-charge of space provided neither
emergent energy nor organized matter were present and responding to gravity.

Gravity presence and action is what prevents the appearance of the theoretical
absolute zero, for interstellar space does not have the temperature of absolute
zero. Throughout all organized space there are gravity-responding energy
currents, power circuits, and ultimatonic activities, as well as organizing
electronic energies. Practically speaking, space is not empty. Even the
atmosphere of Urantia thins out increasingly until at about three thousand
miles it begins to shade off into the average space matter in this section of
the universe. The most nearly empty space known in Nebadon would yield about
one hundred ultimatons--the equivalent of one electron--in each cubic inch.
Such scarcity of matter is regarded as practically empty space.

Temperature--heat and cold--is secondary only to gravity in the realms of
energy and matter evolution. Ultimatons are humbly obedient to temperature
extremes. Low temperatures favor certain forms of electronic construction and
atomic assembly, while high temperatures facilitate all sorts of atomic breakup
and material disintegration.

When subjected to the heat and pressure of certain internal solar states, all
but the most primitive associations of matter may be broken up. Heat can thus
largely overcome gravity stability. But no known solar heat or pressure can
convert ultimatons back into puissant energy.

The blazing suns can transform matter into various forms of energy, but the
dark worlds and all outer space can slow down electronic and ultimatonic
activity to the point of converting these energies into the matter of the
realms. Certain electronic associations of a close nature, as well as many of
the basic associations of nuclear matter, are formed in the exceedingly low
temperatures of open space, being later augmented by association with larger
accretions of materializing energy.

Throughout all of this never-ending metamorphosis of energy and matter we must
reckon with the influence of gravity pressure and with the antigravity behavior
of the ultimatonic energies under certain conditions of temperature, velocity,
and revolution. Temperature, energy currents, distance, and the presence of the
living force organizers and the power directors also have a bearing on all
transmutation phenomena of energy and matter.

                                top of page - 474

The increase of mass in matter is equal to the increase of energy divided by
the square of the velocity of light. In a dynamic sense the work which resting
matter can perform is equal to the energy expended in bringing its parts
together from Paradise minus the resistance of the forces overcome in transit
and the attraction exerted by the parts of matter on one another.

The existence of pre-electronic forms of matter is indicated by the two atomic
weights of lead. The lead of original formation weighs slightly more than that
produced through uranium disintegration by way of radium emanations; and this
difference in atomic weight represents the actual loss of energy in the atomic
breakup.

The relative integrity of matter is assured by the fact that energy can be
absorbed or released only in those exact amounts which Urantia scientists have
designated quanta. This wise provision in the material realms serves to
maintain the universes as going concerns.

The quantity of energy taken in or given out when electronic or other positions
are shifted is always a "quantum" or some multiple thereof, but the vibratory
or wavelike behavior of such units of energy is wholly determined by the
dimensions of the material structures concerned. Such wavelike energy ripples
are 860 times the diameters of the ultimatons, electrons, atoms, or other units
thus performing. The never-ending confusion attending the observation of the
wave mechanics of quantum behavior is due to the superimposition of energy
waves: Two crests can combine to make a double-height crest, while a crest and
a trough may combine, thus producing mutual cancellation.

5. WAVE-ENERGY MANIFESTATIONS

In the superuniverse of Orvonton there are one hundred octaves of wave energy.
Of these one hundred groups of energy manifestations, sixty-four are wholly or
partially recognized on Urantia. The sun's rays constitute four octaves in the
superuniverse scale, the visible rays embracing a single octave, number
forty-six in this series. The ultraviolet group comes next, while ten octaves
up are the X rays, followed by the gamma rays of radium. Thirty-two octaves
above the visible light of the sun are the outer-space energy rays so
frequently commingled with their associated highly energized minute particles
of matter. Next downward from visible sunlight appear the infrared rays, and
thirty octaves below are the radio transmission group.

Wavelike energy manifestations--from the standpoint of twentieth-century
Urantia scientific enlightenment--may be classified into the following ten
groups:

1. Infraultimatonic rays--the borderland revolutions of ultimatons as they
begin to assume definite form. This is the first stage of emergent energy in
which wavelike phenomena can be detected and measured.

2. Ultimatonic rays. The assembly of energy into the minute spheres of the
ultimatons occasions vibrations in the content of space which are discernible
and measurable. And long before physicists ever discover the ultimaton, they
will undoubtedly detect the phenomena of these rays as they shower in upon
Urantia. These short and powerful rays represent the initial activity of the
ulti-

                                top of page - 475

matons as they are slowed down to that point where they veer towards the
electronic organization of matter. As the ultimatons aggregate into electrons,
condensation occurs with a consequent storage of energy.

3. The short space rays. These are the shortest of all purely electronic
vibrations and represent the preatomic stage of this form of matter. These rays
require extraordinarily high or low temperatures for their production. There
are two sorts of these space rays: one attendant upon the birth of atoms and
the other indicative of atomic disruption. They emanate in the largest
quantities from the densest plane of the superuniverse, the Milky Way, which is
also the densest plane of the outer universes.

4. The electronic stage. This stage of energy is the basis of all
materialization in the seven superuniverses. When electrons pass from higher to
lower energy levels of orbital revolution, quanta are always given off. Orbital
shifting of electrons results in the ejection or the absorption of very
definite and uniform measurable particles of light-energy, while the individual
electron always gives up a particle of light-energy when subjected to
collision. Wavelike energy manifestations also attend upon the performances of
the positive bodies and the other members of the electronic stage.

5. Gamma rays--those emanations which characterize the spontaneous dissociation
of atomic matter. The best illustration of this form of electronic activity is
in the phenomena associated with radium disintegration.

6. The X-ray group. The next step in the slowing down of the electron yields
the various forms of solar X rays together with artificially generated X rays.
The electronic charge creates an electric field; movement gives rise to an
electric current; the current produces a magnetic field. When an electron is
suddenly stopped, the resultant electromagnetic commotion produces the X ray;
the X ray is that disturbance. The solar X rays are identical with those which
are mechanically generated for exploring the interior of the human body except
that they are a trifle longer.

7. The ultraviolet or chemical rays of sunlight and the various mechanical
productions.

8. The white light--the whole visible light of the suns.

9. Infrared rays--the slowing down of electronic activity still nearer the
stage of appreciable heat.

10. Hertzian waves--those energies utilized on Urantia for broadcasting.

Of all these ten phases of wavelike energy activity, the human eye can react to
just one octave, the whole light of ordinary sunlight.

The so-called ether is merely a collective name to designate a group of force
and energy activities occurring in space. Ultimatons, electrons, and other mass
aggregations of energy are uniform particles of matter, and in their transit
through space they really proceed in direct lines. Light and all other forms of
recognizable energy manifestations consist of a succession of definite energy
particles which proceed in direct lines except as modified by gravity and other
intervening forces. That these processions of energy particles appear as wave
phenomena when subjected to certain observations is due to the resistance of
the undifferentiated force blanket of all space, the hypothetical ether, and to

                                top of page - 476

the intergravity tension of the associated aggregations of matter. The spacing
of the particle-intervals of matter, together with the initial velocity of the
energy beams, establishes the undulatory appearance of many forms of
energy-matter.

The excitation of the content of space produces a wavelike reaction to the
passage of rapidly moving particles of matter, just as the passage of a ship
through water initiates waves of varying amplitude and interval.

Primordial-force behavior does give rise to phenomena which are in many ways
analogous to your postulated ether. Space is not empty; the spheres of all
space whirl and plunge on through a vast ocean of outspread force-energy;
neither is the space content of an atom empty. Nevertheless there is no ether,
and the very absence of this hypothetical ether enables the inhabited planet to
escape falling into the sun and the encircling electron to resist falling into
the nucleus.

6. ULTIMATONS, ELECTRONS, AND ATOMS

While the space charge of universal force is homogeneous and undifferentiated,
the organization of evolved energy into matter entails the concentration of
energy into discrete masses of definite dimensions and established
weight--precise gravity reaction.

Local or linear gravity becomes fully operative with the appearance of the
atomic organization of matter. Preatomic matter becomes slightly gravity
responsive when activated by X ray and other similar energies, but no
measurable linear-gravity pull is exerted on free, unattached, and uncharged
electronic-energy particles or on unassociated ultimatons.

Ultimatons function by mutual attraction, responding only to the circular
Paradise-gravity pull. Without linear-gravity response they are thus held in
the universal space drift. Ultimatons are capable of accelerating revolutionary
velocity to the point of partial antigravity behavior, but they cannot,
independent of force organizers or power directors, attain the critical escape
velocity of deindividuation, return to the puissant-energy stage. In nature,
ultimatons escape the status of physical existence only when participating in
the terminal disruption of a cooled-off and dying sun.

The ultimatons, unknown on Urantia, slow down through many phases of physical
activity before they attain the revolutionary-energy prerequisites to
electronic organization. Ultimatons have three varieties of motion: mutual
resistance to cosmic force, individual revolutions of antigravity potential,
and the intraelectronic positions of the one hundred mutually interassociated
ultimatons.

Mutual attraction holds one hundred ultimatons together in the constitution of
the electron; and there are never more nor less than one hundred ultimatons in
a typical electron. The loss of one or more ultimatons destroys typical
electronic identity, thus bringing into existence one of the ten modified forms
of the electron.

Ultimatons do not describe orbits or whirl about in circuits within the
electrons, but they do spread or cluster in accordance with their axial
revolutionary velocities, thus determining the differential electronic
dimensions. This same ultimatonic velocity of axial revolution also determines
the negative or positive reactions of the several types of electronic units.
The entire segregation and grouping of electronic matter, together with the
electric differentiation of neg-

                                top of page - 477

ative and positive bodies of energy-matter, result from these various functions
of the component ultimatonic interassociation.

Each atom is a trifle over 1/100,000,000th of an inch in diameter, while an
electron weighs a little more than 1/2,000th of the smallest atom, hydrogen.
The positive proton, characteristic of the atomic nucleus, while it may be no
larger than a negative electron, weighs almost two thousand times more.

If the mass of matter should be magnified until that of an electron equaled one
tenth of an ounce, then were size to be proportionately magnified, the volume
of such an electron would become as large as that of the earth. If the volume
of a proton--eighteen hundred times as heavy as an electron--should be
magnified to the size of the head of a pin, then, in comparison, a pin's head
would attain a diameter equal to that of the earth's orbit around the sun.

7. ATOMIC MATTER

The formation of all matter is on the order of the solar system. There is at
the center of every minute universe of energy a relatively stable,
comparatively stationary, nuclear portion of material existence. This central
unit is endowed with a threefold possibility of manifestation. Surrounding this
energy center there whirl, in endless profusion but in fluctuating circuits,
the energy units which are faintly comparable to the planets encircling the sun
of some starry group like your own solar system.

Within the atom the electrons revolve about the central proton with about the
same comparative room the planets have as they revolve about the sun in the
space of the solar system. There is the same relative distance, in comparison
with actual size, between the atomic nucleus and the inner electronic circuit
as exists between the inner planet, Mercury, and your sun.

The electronic axial revolutions and their orbital velocities about the atomic
nucleus are both beyond the human imagination, not to mention the velocities of
their component ultimatons. The positive particles of radium fly off into space
at the rate of ten thousand miles a second, while the negative particles attain
a velocity approximating that of light.

The local universes are of decimal construction. There are just one hundred
distinguishable atomic materializations of space-energy in a dual universe;
that is the maximum possible organization of matter in Nebadon. These one
hundred forms of matter consist of a regular series in which from one to one
hundred electrons revolve around a central and relatively compact nucleus. It
is this orderly and dependable association of various energies that constitutes
matter.

Not every world will show one hundred recognizable elements at the surface, but
they are somewhere present, have been present, or are in process of evolution.
Conditions surrounding the origin and subsequent evolution of a planet
determine how many of the one hundred atomic types will be observable. The
heavier atoms are not found on the surface of many worlds. Even on Urantia the
known heavier elements manifest a tendency to fly to pieces, as is illustrated
by radium behavior.

Stability of the atom depends on the number of electrically inactive neutrons
in the central body. Chemical behavior is wholly dependent on the activity of
the freely revolving electrons.

                                top of page - 478

In Orvonton it has never been possible naturally to assemble over one hundred
orbital electrons in one atomic system. When one hundred and one have been
artificially introduced into the orbital field, the result has always been the
well-nigh instantaneous disruption of the central proton with the wild
dispersion of the electrons and other liberated energies.

While atoms may contain from one to one hundred orbital electrons, only the
outer ten electrons of the larger atoms revolve about the central nucleus as
distinct and discrete bodies, intactly and compactly swinging around on precise
and definite orbits. The thirty electrons nearest the center are difficult of
observation or detection as separate and organized bodies. This same
comparative ratio of electronic behavior in relation to nuclear proximity
obtains in all atoms regardless of the number of electrons embraced. The nearer
the nucleus, the less there is of electronic individuality. The wavelike energy
extension of an electron may so spread out as to occupy the whole of the lesser
atomic orbits; especially is this true of the electrons nearest the atomic
nucleus.

The thirty innermost orbital electrons have individuality, but their energy
systems tend to intermingle, extending from electron to electron and well-nigh
from orbit to orbit. The next thirty electrons constitute the second family, or
energy zone, and are of advancing individuality, bodies of matter exerting a
more complete control over their attendant energy systems. The next thirty
electrons, the third energy zone, are still more individualized and circulate
in more distinct and definite orbits. The last ten electrons, present in only
the ten heaviest elements, are possessed of the dignity of independence and
are, therefore, able to escape more or less freely from the control of the
mother nucleus. With a minimum variation in temperature and pressure, the
members of this fourth and outermost group of electrons will escape from the
grasp of the central nucleus, as is illustrated by the spontaneous disruption
of uranium and kindred elements.

The first twenty-seven atoms, those containing from one to twenty-seven orbital
electrons, are more easy of comprehension than the rest. From twenty-eight
upward we encounter more and more of the unpredictability of the supposed
presence of the Unqualified Absolute. But some of this electronic
unpredictability is due to differential ultimatonic axial revolutionary
velocities and to the unexplained "huddling" proclivity of ultimatons. Other
influences--physical, electrical, magnetic, and gravitational--also operate to
produce variable electronic behavior. Atoms therefore are similar to persons as
to predictability. Statisticians may announce laws governing a large number of
either atoms or persons but not for a single individual atom or person.

8. ATOMIC COHESION

While gravity is one of several factors concerned in holding together a tiny
atomic energy system, there is also present in and among these basic physical
units a powerful and unknown energy, the secret of their basic constitution and
ultimate behavior, a force which remains to be discovered on Urantia. This
universal influence permeates all the space embraced within this tiny energy
organization.

The interelectronic space of an atom is not empty. Throughout an atom this
interelectronic space is activated by wavelike manifestations which are
perfectly

                                top of page - 479

synchronized with electronic velocity and ultimatonic revolutions. This force
is not wholly dominated by your recognized laws of positive and negative
attraction; its behavior is therefore sometimes unpredictable. This unnamed
influence seems to be a space-force reaction of the Unqualified Absolute.

The charged protons and the uncharged neutrons of the nucleus of the atom are
held together by the reciprocating function of the mesotron, a particle of
matter 180 times as heavy as the electron. Without this arrangement the
electric charge carried by the protons would be disruptive of the atomic
nucleus.

As atoms are constituted, neither electric nor gravitational forces could hold
the nucleus together. The integrity of the nucleus is maintained by the
reciprocal cohering function of the mesotron, which is able to hold charged and
uncharged particles together because of superior force-mass power and by the
further function of causing protons and neutrons constantly to change places.
The mesotron causes the electric charge of the nuclear particles to be
incessantly tossed back and forth between protons and neutrons. At one
infinitesimal part of a second a given nuclear particle is a charged proton and
the next an uncharged neutron. And these alternations of energy status are so
unbelievably rapid that the electric charge is deprived of all opportunity to
function as a disruptive influence. Thus does the mesotron function as an
"energy-carrier" particle which mightily contributes to the nuclear stability
of the atom.

The presence and function of the mesotron also explains another atomic riddle.
When atoms perform radioactively, they emit far more energy than would be
expected. This excess of radiation is derived from the breaking up of the
mesotron "energy carrier," which thereby becomes a mere electron. The
mesotronic disintegration is also accompanied by the emission of certain small
uncharged particles.

The mesotron explains certain cohesive properties of the atomic nucleus, but it
does not account for the cohesion of proton to proton nor for the adhesion of
neutron to neutron. The paradoxical and powerful force of atomic cohesive
integrity is a form of energy as yet undiscovered on Urantia.

These mesotrons are found abundantly in the space rays which so incessantly
impinge upon your planet.

9. NATURAL PHILOSOPHY

Religion is not alone dogmatic; natural philosophy equally tends to dogmatize.
When a renowned religious teacher reasoned that the number seven was
fundamental to nature because there are seven openings in the human head, if he
had known more of chemistry, he might have advocated such a belief founded on a
true phenomenon of the physical world. There is in all the physical universes
of time and space, notwithstanding the universal manifestation of the decimal
constitution of energy, the ever-present reminder of the reality of the
sevenfold electronic organization of prematter.

The number seven is basic to the central universe and the spiritual system of
inherent transmissions of character, but the number ten, the decimal system, is
inherent in energy, matter, and the material creation. Nevertheless the atomic
world does display a certain periodic characterization which recurs in groups
of seven--a birthmark carried by this material world indicative of its
far-distant spiritual origin.

                                top of page - 480

This sevenfold persistence of creative constitution is exhibited in the
chemical domains as a recurrence of similar physical and chemical properties in
segregated periods of seven when the basic elements are arranged in the order
of their atomic weights. When the Urantia chemical elements are thus arranged
in a row, any given quality or property tends to recur by sevens. This periodic
change by sevens recurs diminishingly and with variations throughout the entire
chemical table, being most markedly observable in the earlier or lighter atomic
groupings. Starting from any one element, after noting some one property, such
a quality will change for six consecutive elements, but on reaching the eighth,
it tends to reappear, that is, the eighth chemically active element resembles
the first, the ninth the second, and so on. Such a fact of the physical world
unmistakably points to the sevenfold constitution of ancestral energy and is
indicative of the fundamental reality of the sevenfold diversity of the
creations of time and space. Man should also note that there are seven colors
in the natural spectrum.

But not all the suppositions of natural philosophy are valid; for example, the
hypothetical ether, which represents an ingenious attempt of man to unify his
ignorance of space phenomena. The philosophy of the universe cannot be
predicated on the observations of so-called science. If such a metamorphosis
could not be seen, a scientist would be inclined to deny the possibility of
developing a butterfly out of a caterpillar.

Physical stability associated with biologic elasticity is present in nature
only because of the well-nigh infinite wisdom possessed by the Master
Architects of creation. Nothing less than transcendental wisdom could ever
design units of matter which are at the same time so stable and so efficiently
flexible.

10. UNIVERSAL NONSPIRITUAL ENERGY SYSTEMS

The endless sweep of relative cosmic reality from the absoluteness of Paradise
monota to the absoluteness of space potency, is suggestive of certain
evolutions of relationship in the nonspiritual realities of the First Source
and Center--those realities which are concealed in space potency, revealed in
monota, and provisionally disclosed on intervening cosmic levels. This eternal
cycle of energy, being circuited in the Father of universes, is absolute and,
being absolute, is expansile in neither fact nor value; nevertheless the Primal
Father is even now--as always--self-realizing of an ever-expanding arena of
time-space, and of time-space-transcended, meanings, an arena of changing
relationships wherein energy-matter is being progressively subjected to the
overcontrol of living and divine spirit through the experiential striving of
living and personal mind.

The universal nonspiritual energies are reassociated in the living systems of
non-Creator minds on various levels, certain of which may be depicted as
follows:

1. Preadjutant-spirit minds. This level of mind is nonexperiencing and on the
inhabited worlds is ministered by the Master Physical Controllers. This is
mechanical mind, the nonteachable intellect of the most primitive forms of
material life, but the nonteachable mind functions on many levels beside that
of primitive planetary life.

                                top of page - 481

2. Adjutant-spirit minds. This is the ministry of a local universe Mother
Spirit functioning through her seven adjutant mind-spirits on the teachable
(nonmechanical) level of material mind. On this level material mind is
experiencing: as subhuman (animal) intellect in the first five adjutants; as
human (moral) intellect in the seven adjutants; as superhuman (midwayer)
intellect in the last two adjutants.

3. Evolving morontia minds--the expanding consciousness of evolving
personalities in the local universe ascending careers. This is the bestowal of
the local universe Mother Spirit in liaison with the Creator Son. This mind
level connotes the organization of the morontia type of life vehicle, a
synthesis of the material and the spiritual which is effected by the Morontia
Power Supervisors of a local universe. Morontia mind functions differentially
in response to the 570 levels of morontia life, disclosing increasing
associative capacity with the cosmic mind on the higher levels of attainment.
This is the evolutionary course of mortal creatures, but mind of a nonmorontia
order is also bestowed by a Universe Son and a Universe Spirit upon the
nonmorontia children of the local creations.

The cosmic mind. This is the sevenfold diversified mind of time and space, one
phase of which is ministered by each of the Seven Master Spirits to one of the
seven superuniverses. The cosmic mind encompasses all finite-mind levels and
co-ordinates experientially with the evolutionary-deity levels of the Supreme
Mind and transcendentally with the existential levels of absolute mind--the
direct circuits of the Conjoint Actor.

On Paradise, mind is absolute; in Havona, absonite; in Orvonton, finite. Mind
always connotes the presence-activity of living ministry plus varied energy
systems, and this is true of all levels and of all kinds of mind. But beyond
the cosmic mind it becomes increasingly difficult to portray the relationships
of mind to nonspiritual energy. Havona mind is subabsolute but
superevolutionary; being existential-experiential, it is nearer the absonite
than any other concept revealed to you. Paradise mind is beyond human
understanding; it is existential, nonspatial, and nontemporal. Nevertheless,
all of these levels of mind are overshadowed by the universal presence of the
Conjoint Actor--by the mind-gravity grasp of the God of mind on Paradise.

11. UNIVERSE MECHANISMS

In the evaluation and recognition of mind it should be remembered that the
universe is neither mechanical nor magical; it is a creation of mind and a
mechanism of law. But while in practical application the laws of nature operate
in what seems to be the dual realms of the physical and the spiritual, in
reality they are one. The First Source and Center is the primal cause of all
materialization and at the same time the first and final Father of all spirits.
The Paradise Father appears personally in the extra-Havona universes only as
pure energy and pure spirit--as the Thought Adjusters and other similar
fragmentations.

Mechanisms do not absolutely dominate the total creation; the universe of
universes in toto is mind planned, mind made, and mind administered. But the
divine mechanism of the universe of universes is altogether too perfect for the
scientific methods of the finite mind of man to discern even a trace of the
dominance of the infinite mind. For this creating, controlling, and upholding
mind

                                top of page - 482

is neither material mind nor creature mind; it is spirit-mind functioning on
and from creator levels of divine reality.

The ability to discern and discover mind in universe mechanisms depends
entirely on the ability, scope, and capacity of the investigating mind engaged
in such a task of observation. Time-space minds, organized out of the energies
of time and space, are subject to the mechanisms of time and space.

Motion and universe gravitation are twin facets of the impersonal time-space
mechanism of the universe of universes. The levels of gravity response for
spirit, mind, and matter are quite independent of time, but only true spirit
levels of reality are independent of space (nonspatial). The higher mind levels
of the universe--the spirit-mind levels--may also be nonspatial, but the levels
of material mind, such as human mind, are responsive to the interactions of
universe gravitation, losing this response only in proportion to spirit
identification. Spirit-reality levels are recognized by their spirit content,
and spirituality in time and space is measured inversely to the linear-gravity
response.

Linear-gravity response is a quantitative measure of nonspirit energy. All
mass--organized energy--is subject to this grasp except as motion and mind act
upon it. Linear gravity is the short-range cohesive force of the macrocosmos
somewhat as the forces of intra-atomic cohesion are the short-range forces of
the microcosmos. Physical materialized energy, organized as so-called matter,
cannot traverse space without affecting linear-gravity response. Although such
gravity response is directly proportional to mass, it is so modified by
intervening space that the final result is no more than roughly approximated
when expressed as inversely according to the square of the distance. Space
eventually conquers linear gravitation because of the presence therein of the
antigravity influences of numerous supermaterial forces which operate to
neutralize gravity action and all responses thereto.

Extremely complex and highly automatic-appearing cosmic mechanisms always tend
to conceal the presence of the originative or creative indwelling mind from any
and all intelligences very far below the universe levels of the nature and
capacity of the mechanism itself. Therefore is it inevitable that the higher
universe mechanisms must appear to be mindless to the lower orders of
creatures. The only possible exception to such a conclusion would be the
implication of mindedness in the amazing phenomenon of an apparently
self-maintaining universe--but that is a matter of philosophy rather than one
of actual experience.

Since mind co-ordinates the universe, fixity of mechanisms is nonexistent. The
phenomenon of progressive evolution associated with cosmic self-maintenance is
universal. The evolutionary capacity of the universe is inexhaustible in the
infinity of spontaneity. Progress towards harmonious unity, a growing
experiential synthesis superimposed on an ever-increasing complexity of
relationships, could be effected only by a purposive and dominant mind.

The higher the universe mind associated with any universe phenomenon, the more
difficult it is for the lower types of mind to discover it. And since the mind
of the universe mechanism is creative spirit-mind (even the mindedness of the
Infinite), it can never be discovered or discerned by the lower-level minds of
the universe, much less by the lowest mind of all, the human. The evolving
animal mind, while naturally God-seeking, is not alone and of itself inherently
God-knowing.

                                top of page - 483

12. PATTERN AND FORM--MIND DOMINANCE

The evolution of mechanisms implies and indicates the concealed presence and
dominance of creative mind. The ability of the mortal intellect to conceive,
design, and create automatic mechanisms demonstrates the superior, creative,
and purposive qualities of man's mind as the dominant influence on the planet.
Mind always reaches out towards:

1. Creation of material mechanisms.

2. Discovery of hidden mysteries.

3. Exploration of remote situations.

4. Formulation of mental systems.

5. Attainment of wisdom goals.

6. Achievement of spirit levels.

7. The accomplishment of divine destinies--supreme, ultimate, and absolute.

Mind is always creative. The mind endowment of an individual animal, mortal,
morontian, spirit ascender, or finality attainer is always competent to produce
a suitable and serviceable body for the living creature identity. But the
presence phenomenon of a personality or the pattern of an identity, as such, is
not a manifestation of energy, either physical, mindal, or spiritual. The
personality form is the pattern aspect of a living being; it connotes the
arrangement of energies, and this, plus life and motion, is the mechanism of
creature existence.

Even spirit beings have form, and these spirit forms (patterns) are real. Even
the highest type of spirit personalities have forms--personality presences in
every sense analogous to Urantia mortal bodies. Nearly all beings encountered
in the seven superuniverses are possessed of forms. But there are a few
exceptions to this general rule: Thought Adjusters appear to be without form
until after fusion with the surviving souls of their mortal associates.
Solitary Messengers, Inspired Trinity Spirits, Personal Aids of the Infinite
Spirit, Gravity Messengers, Transcendental Recorders, and certain others are
also without discoverable form. But these are typical of the exceptional few;
the great majority have bona fide personality forms, forms which are
individually characteristic, and which are recognizable and personally
distinguishable.

The liaison of the cosmic mind and the ministry of the adjutant mind-spirits
evolve a suitable physical tabernacle for the evolving human being. Likewise
does the morontia mind individualize the morontia form for all mortal
survivors. As the mortal body is personal and characteristic for every human
being, so will the morontia form be highly individual and adequately
characteristic of the creative mind which dominates it. No two morontia forms
are any more alike than any two human bodies. The Morontia Power Supervisors
sponsor, and the attending seraphim provide, the undifferentiated morontia
material wherewith the morontia life can begin to work. And after the morontia
life it will be found that spirit forms are equally diverse, personal, and
characteristic of their respective spirit-mind indwellers.

On a material world you think of a body as having a spirit, but we regard the
spirit as having a body. The material eyes are truly the windows of the spirit-

                                top of page - 484

born soul. The spirit is the architect, the mind is the builder, the body is
the material building.

Physical, spiritual, and mindal energies, as such and in their pure states, do
not fully interact as actuals of the phenomenal universes. On Paradise the
three energies are co-ordinate, in Havona co-ordinated, while in the universe
levels of finite activities there must be encountered all ranges of material,
mindal, and spiritual dominance. In nonpersonal situations of time and space,
physical energy seems to predominate, but it also appears that the more nearly
spirit-mind function approaches divinity of purpose and supremacy of action,
the more nearly does the spirit phase become dominant; that on the ultimate
level spirit-mind may become all but completely dominant. On the absolute level
spirit certainly is dominant. And from there on out through the realms of time
and space, wherever a divine spirit reality is present, whenever a real
spirit-mind is functioning, there always tends to be produced a material or
physical counterpart of that spirit reality.

The spirit is the creative reality; the physical counterpart is the time-space
reflection of the spirit reality, the physical repercussion of the creative
action of spirit-mind.

Mind universally dominates matter, even as it is in turn responsive to the
ultimate overcontrol of spirit. And with mortal man, only that mind which
freely submits itself to the spirit direction can hope to survive the mortal
time-space existence as an immortal child of the eternal spirit world of the
Supreme, the Ultimate, and the Absolute: the Infinite.

[Presented by a Mighty Messenger on duty in Nebadon and by the request of
Gabriel.]

                                top of page - 485

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity


        //                                                                
     Physical             The           Urantia Book     Search  SiteMap! 
    Aspect...       Constellati...          PA...                         

//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),             
                            http://www.spiritweb.org                   
                       Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>             
                                                                       
                  ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.        
             DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,    
                                    AUSTRALIA                          
                                                                       

