                  Urantia Book Paper 43 The Constellations
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          Paper 43 The Constellations

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

URANTIA is commonly referred to as 606 of Satania in Norlatiadek of Nebadon,
meaning the six hundred sixth inhabited world in the local system of Satania,
situated in the constellation of Norlatiadek, one of the one hundred
constellations of the local universe of Nebadon. Constellations being the
primary divisions of a local universe, their rulers link the local systems of
inhabited worlds to the central administration of the local universe on
Salvington and by reflectivity to the superadministration of the Ancients of
Days on Uversa.

The government of your constellation is situated in a cluster of 771
architectural spheres, the centermost and largest of which is Edentia, the seat
of the administration of the Constellation Fathers, the Most Highs of
Norlatiadek. Edentia itself is approximately one hundred times as large as your
world. The seventy major spheres surrounding Edentia are about ten times the
size of Urantia, while the ten satellites which revolve around each of these
seventy worlds are about the size of Urantia. These 771 architectural spheres
are quite comparable in size to those of other constellations.

Edentia time reckoning and distance measurement are those of Salvington, and
like the spheres of the universe capital, the constellation headquarters worlds
are fully supplied with all orders of celestial intelligences. In general,
these personalities are not very different from those described in connection
with the universe administration.

The supervisor seraphim, the third order of local universe angels, are assigned
to the service of the constellations. They make their headquarters on the
capital spheres and minister extensively to the encircling morontia-training
worlds. In Norlatiadek the seventy major spheres, together with the seven
hundred minor satellites, are inhabited by the univitatia, the permanent
citizens of the constellation. All these architectural worlds are fully
administered by the various groups of native life, for the greater part
unrevealed but including the efficient spironga and the beautiful spornagia.
Being the mid-point in the morontia-training regime, as you might suspect, the
morontia life of the constellations is both typical and ideal.

1. THE CONSTELLATION HEADQUARTERS

Edentia abounds in fascinating highlands, extensive elevations of physical
matter crowned with morontia life and overspread with spiritual glory, but
there are no rugged mountain ranges such as appear on Urantia. There are tens
of thousands of sparkling lakes and thousands upon thousands of interconnecting

                                top of page - 486

streams, but there are no great oceans nor torrential rivers. Only the
highlands are devoid of these surface streams.

The water of Edentia and similar architectural spheres is no different from the
water of the evolutionary planets. The water systems of such spheres are both
surface and subterranean, and the moisture is in constant circulation. Edentia
can be circumnavigated via these various water routes, though the chief channel
of transportation is the atmosphere. Spirit beings would naturally travel above
the surface of the sphere, while the morontia and material beings make use of
material and semimaterial means to negotiate atmospheric passage.

Edentia and its associated worlds have a true atmosphere, the usual three-gas
mixture which is characteristic of such architectural creations, and which
embodies the two elements of Urantian atmosphere plus that morontia gas
suitable for the respiration of morontia creatures. But while this atmosphere
is both material and morontial, there are no storms or hurricanes; neither is
there summer nor winter. This absence of atmospheric disturbances and of
seasonal variation makes it possible to embellish all outdoors on these
especially created worlds.

The Edentia highlands are magnificent physical features, and their beauty is
enhanced by the endless profusion of life which abounds throughout their length
and breadth. Excepting a few rather isolated structures, these highlands
contain no work of creature hands. Material and morontial ornamentations are
limited to the dwelling areas. The lesser elevations are the sites of special
residences and are beautifully embellished with both biologic and morontia art.

Situated on the summit of the seventh highland range are the resurrection halls
of Edentia, wherein awaken the ascending mortals of the secondary modified
order of ascension. These chambers of creature reassembly are under the
supervision of the Melchizedeks. The first of the receiving spheres of Edentia
(like the planet Melchizedek near Salvington) also has special resurrection
halls, wherein the mortals of the modified orders of ascension are reassembled.

The Melchizedeks also maintain two special colleges on Edentia. One, the
emergency school, is devoted to the study of problems growing out of the
Satania rebellion. The other, the bestowal school, is dedicated to the mastery
of the new problems arising out of the fact that Michael made his final
bestowal on one of the worlds of Norlatiadek. This latter college was
established almost forty thousand years ago, immediately after the announcement
by Michael that Urantia had been selected as the world for his final bestowal.

The sea of glass, the receiving area of Edentia, is near the administrative
center and is encircled by the headquarters amphitheater. Surrounding this area
are the governing centers for the seventy divisions of constellation affairs.
One half of Edentia is divided into seventy triangular sections, whose
boundaries converge at the headquarters buildings of their respective sectors.
The remainder of this sphere is one vast natural park, the gardens of God.

During your periodic visits to Edentia, though the entire planet is open to
your inspection, most of your time will be spent in that administrative
triangle whose number corresponds to that of your current residential world.
You will always be welcome as an observer in the legislative assemblies.

The morontia area assigned to ascending mortals resident on Edentia is located
in the mid-zone of the thirty-fifth triangle adjoining the headquarters of the
finaliters, situated in the thirty-sixth triangle. The general headquarters

                                top of page - 487

of the univitatia occupies an enormous area in the mid-region of the
thirty-fourth triangle immediately adjoining the residential reservation of the
morontia citizens. From these arrangements it may be seen that provision is
made for the accommodation of at least seventy major divisions of celestial
life, and also that each of these seventy triangular areas is correlated with
some one of the seventy major spheres of morontia training.

The Edentia sea of glass is one enormous circular crystal about one hundred
miles in circumference and about thirty miles in depth. This magnificent
crystal serves as the receiving field for all transport seraphim and other
beings arriving from points outside the sphere; such a sea of glass greatly
facilitates the landing of transport seraphim.

A crystal field on this order is found on almost all architectural worlds; and
it serves many purposes aside from its decorative value, being utilized for
portraying superuniverse reflectivity to assembled groups and as a factor in
the energy-transformation technique for modifying the currents of space and for
adapting other incoming physical-energy streams.

2. THE CONSTELLATION GOVERNMENT

The constellations are the autonomous units of a local universe, each
constellation being administered according to its own legislative enactments.
When the courts of Nebadon sit in judgment on universe affairs, all internal
matters are adjudicated in accordance with the laws prevailing in the
constellation concerned. These judicial decrees of Salvington, together with
the legislative enactments of the constellations, are executed by the
administrators of the local systems.

Constellations thus function as the legislative or lawmaking units, while the
local systems serve as the executive or enforcement units. The Salvington
government is the supreme judicial and co-ordinating authority.

While the supreme judicial function rests with the central administration of a
local universe, there are two subsidiary but major tribunals at the
headquarters of each constellation, the Melchizedek council and the court of
the Most High.

All judicial problems are first reviewed by the council of the Melchizedeks.
Twelve of this order who have had certain requisite experience on the
evolutionary planets and on the system headquarters worlds are empowered to
review evidence, digest pleas, and formulate provisional verdicts, which are
passed on to the court of the Most High, the reigning Constellation Father. The
mortal division of this latter tribunal consists of seven judges, all of whom
are ascendant mortals. The higher you ascend in the universe, the more certain
you are to be judged by those of your own kind.

The constellation legislative body is divided into three groups. The
legislative program of a constellation originates in the lower house of
ascenders, a group presided over by a finaliter and consisting of one thousand
representative mortals. Each system nominates ten members to sit in this
deliberative assembly. On Edentia this body is not fully recruited at the
present time.

The mid-chamber of legislators is composed of the seraphic hosts and their
associates, other children of the local universe Mother Spirit. This group
numbers one hundred and is nominated by the supervising personalities who
preside

                                top of page - 488

over the various activities of such beings as they function within the
constellation.

The advisory or highest body of constellation legislators consists of the house
of peers--the house of the divine Sons. This corps is chosen by the Most High
Fathers and numbers ten. Only Sons of special experience may serve in this
upper house. This is the fact-finding and timesaving group which very
effectively serves both of the lower divisions of the legislative assembly.

The combined council of legislators consists of three members from each of
these separate branches of the constellation deliberative assembly and is
presided over by the reigning junior Most High. This group sanctions the final
form of all enactments and authorizes their promulgation by the broadcasters.
The approval of this supreme commission renders legislative enactments the law
of the realm; their acts are final. The legislative pronouncements of Edentia
constitute the fundamental law of all Norlatiadek.

3. THE MOST HIGHS OF NORLATIADEK

The rulers of the constellations are of the Vorondadek order of local universe
sonship. When commissioned to active duty in the universe as constellation
rulers or otherwise, these Sons are known as the Most Highs since they embody
the highest administrative wisdom, coupled with the most farseeing and
intelligent loyalty, of all the orders of the Local Universe Sons of God. Their
personal integrity and their group loyalty have never been questioned; no
disaffection of the Vorondadek Sons has ever occurred in Nebadon.

At least three Vorondadek Sons are commissioned by Gabriel as the Most Highs of
each of the Nebadon constellations. The presiding member of this trio is known
as the Constellation Father and his two associates as the senior Most High and
the junior Most High. A Constellation Father reigns for ten thousand standard
years (about 50,000 Urantia years), having previously served as junior
associate and as senior associate for equal periods.

The Psalmist knew that Edentia was ruled by three Constellation Fathers and
accordingly spoke of their abode in the plural: "There is a river, the streams
whereof shall make glad the city of God, the most holy place of the tabernacles
of the Most Highs."

Down through the ages there has been great confusion on Urantia regarding the
various universe rulers. Many later teachers confused their vague and
indefinite tribal deities with the Most High Fathers. Still later, the Hebrews
merged all of these celestial rulers into a composite Deity. One teacher
understood that the Most Highs were not the Supreme Rulers, for he said, "He
who dwells in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of
the Almighty." In the Urantia records it is very difficult at times to know
exactly who is referred to by the term "Most High." But Daniel fully understood
these matters. He said, "The Most High rules in the kingdom of men and gives it
to whomsoever he will."

The Constellation Fathers are little occupied with the individuals of an
inhabited planet, but they are closely associated with those legislative and
lawmaking functions of the constellations which so greatly concern every mortal
race and national group of the inhabited worlds.

                                top of page - 489

Although the constellation regime stands between you and the universe
administration, as individuals you would ordinarily be little concerned with
the constellation government. Your great interest would normally center in the
local system, Satania; but temporarily, Urantia is closely related to the
constellation rulers because of certain system and planetary conditions growing
out of the Lucifer rebellion.

The Edentia Most Highs seized certain phases of planetary authority on the
rebellious worlds at the time of the Lucifer secession. They have continued to
exercise this power, and the Ancients of Days long since confirmed this
assumption of control over these wayward worlds. They will no doubt continue to
exercise this assumed jurisdiction as long as Lucifer lives. Much of this
authority would ordinarily, in a loyal system, be invested in the System
Sovereign.

But there is still another way in which Urantia became peculiarly related to
the Most Highs. When Michael, the Creator Son, was on his terminal bestowal
mission, since the successor of Lucifer was not in full authority in the local
system, all Urantia affairs which concerned the Michael bestowal were
immediately supervised by the Most Highs of Norlatiadek.

4. MOUNT ASSEMBLY--THE FAITHFUL OF DAYS

The most holy mount of assembly is the dwelling place of the Faithful of Days,
the representative of the Paradise Trinity who functions on Edentia.

This Faithful of Days is a Trinity Son of Paradise and has been present on
Edentia as the personal representative of Immanuel since the creation of the
headquarters world. Ever the Faithful of Days stands at the right hand of the
Constellation Fathers to counsel them, but never does he proffer advice unless
it is asked for. The high Sons of Paradise never participate in the conduct of
the affairs of a local universe except upon the petition of the acting rulers
of such domains. But all that a Union of Days is to a Creator Son, a Faithful
of Days is to the Most Highs of a constellation.

The residence of the Edentia Faithful of Days is the constellation center of
the Paradise system of extrauniverse communication and intelligence. These
Trinity Sons, with their staffs of Havona and Paradise personalities, in
liaison with the supervising Union of Days, are in direct and constant
communication with their order throughout all the universes, even to Havona and
Paradise.

The most holy mount is exquisitely beautiful and marvelously appointed, but the
actual residence of the Paradise Son is modest in comparison with the central
abode of the Most Highs and the surrounding seventy structures comprising the
residential unit of the Vorondadek Sons. These appointments are exclusively
residential; they are entirely separate from the extensive administrative
headquarters buildings wherein the affairs of the constellation are transacted.

The residence of the Faithful of Days on Edentia is located to the north of
these residences of the Most Highs and is known as the "mount of Paradise
assembly." On this consecrated highland the ascending mortals periodically
assemble to hear this Son of Paradise tell of the long and intriguing journey
of progressing mortals through the one billion perfection worlds of Havona and
on to the indescribable delights of Paradise. And it is at these special
gatherings on Mount Assembly that the morontia mortals become more fully
acquainted with the various groups of personalities of origin in the central
universe.

                                top of page - 490

The traitorous Lucifer, onetime sovereign of Satania, in announcing his claims
to increased jurisdiction, sought to displace all superior orders of sonship in
the governmental plan of the local universe. He purposed in his heart, saying:
"I will exalt my throne above the Sons of God; I will sit upon the mount of
assembly in the north; I will be like the Most High."

The one hundred System Sovereigns come periodically to the Edentia conclaves
which deliberate on the welfare of the constellation. After the Satania
rebellion the archrebels of Jerusem were wont to come up to these Edentia
councils just as they had on former occasions. And there was found no way to
stop this arrogant effrontery until after the bestowal of Michael on Urantia
and his subsequent assumption of unlimited sovereignty throughout all Nebadon.
Never, since that day, have these instigators of sin been permitted to sit in
the Edentia councils of the loyal System Sovereigns.

That the teachers of olden times knew of these things is shown by the record:
"And there was a day when the Sons of God came to present themselves before the
Most Highs, and Satan came also and presented himself among them." And this is
a statement of fact regardless of the connection in which it chances to appear.

Since the triumph of Christ, all Norlatiadek is being cleansed of sin and
rebels. Sometime before Michael's death in the flesh the fallen Lucifer's
associate, Satan, sought to attend such an Edentia conclave, but the
solidification of sentiment against the archrebels had reached the point where
the doors of sympathy were so well-nigh universally closed that there could be
found no standing ground for the Satania adversaries. When there exists no open
door for the reception of evil, there exists no opportunity for the
entertainment of sin. The doors of the hearts of all Edentia closed against
Satan; he was unanimously rejected by the assembled System Sovereigns, and it
was at this time that the Son of Man "beheld Satan fall as lightning from
heaven."

Since the Lucifer rebellion a new structure has been provided near the
residence of the Faithful of Days. This temporary edifice is the headquarters
of the Most High liaison, who functions in close touch with the Paradise Son as
adviser to the constellation government in all matters respecting the policy
and attitude of the order of Days toward sin and rebellion.

5. THE EDENTIA FATHERS SINCE THE LUCIFER REBELLION

The rotation of the Most Highs on Edentia was suspended at the time of the
Lucifer rebellion. We now have the same rulers who were on duty at that time.
We infer that no change in these rulers will be made until Lucifer and his
associates are finally disposed of.

The present government of the constellation, however, has been expanded to
include twelve Sons of the Vorondadek order. These twelve are as follows:

1. The Constellation Father. The present Most High ruler of Norlatiadek is
number 617,318 of the Vorondadek series of Nebadon. He saw service in many
constellations throughout our local universe before taking up his Edentia
responsibilities.

2. The senior Most High associate.

                                top of page - 491

3. The junior Most High associate.

4. The Most High adviser, the personal representative of Michael since his
attainment of the status of a Master Son.

5. The Most High executive, the personal representative of Gabriel stationed on
Edentia ever since the Lucifer rebellion.

6. The Most High chief of planetary observers, the director of the Vorondadek
observers stationed on the isolated worlds of Satania.

7. The Most High referee, the Vorondadek Son intrusted with the duty of
adjusting all difficulties consequential to rebellion within the constellation.

8. The Most High emergency administrator, the Vorondadek Son charged with the
task of adapting the emergency enactments of the Norlatiadek legislature to the
rebellion-isolated worlds of Satania.

9. The Most High mediator, the Vorondadek Son assigned to harmonize the special
bestowal adjustments on Urantia with the routine administration of the
constellation. The presence of certain archangel activities and numerous other
irregular ministrations on Urantia, together with the special activities of the
Brilliant Evening Stars on Jerusem, necessitates the functioning of this Son.

10. The Most High judge-advocate, the head of the emergency tribunal devoted to
the adjustment of the special problems of Norlatiadek growing out of the
confusion consequent upon the Satania rebellion.

11. The Most High liaison, the Vorondadek Son attached to the Edentia rulers
but commissioned as a special counselor with the Faithful of Days regarding the
best course to pursue in the management of problems pertaining to rebellion and
creature disloyalty.

12. The Most High director, the president of the emergency council of Edentia.
All personalities assigned to Norlatiadek because of the Satania upheaval
constitute the emergency council, and their presiding officer is a Vorondadek
Son of extraordinary experience.

And this takes no account of the numerous Vorondadeks, envoys of Nebadon
constellations, and others who are also resident on Edentia.

Ever since the Lucifer rebellion the Edentia Fathers have exercised a special
care over Urantia and the other isolated worlds of Satania. Long ago the
prophet recognized the controlling hand of the Constellation Fathers in the
affairs of nations. "When the Most High divided to the nations their
inheritance, when he separated the sons of Adam, he set the bounds of the
people."

Every quarantined or isolated world has a Vorondadek Son acting as an observer.
He does not participate in planetary administration except when ordered by the
Constellation Father to intervene in the affairs of the nations. Actually it is
this Most High observer who "rules in the kingdoms of men." Urantia is one of
the isolated worlds of Norlatiadek, and a Vorondadek observer has been
stationed on the planet ever since the Caligastia betrayal. When Machiventa
Melchizedek ministered in semimaterial form on Urantia, he paid respectful
homage to the Most High observer then on duty, as it is written, "And
Melchizedek, king of Salem, was the priest of the Most High." Melchizedek
revealed the relations of this Most High observer to Abraham when he said, "And
blessed be the Most High, who has delivered your enemies into your hand."

                                top of page - 492

6. THE GARDENS OF GOD

The system capitals are particularly beautified with material and mineral
constructions, while the universe headquarters is more reflective of spiritual
glory, but the capitals of the constellations are the acme of morontia
activities and living embellishments. On the constellation headquarters worlds
living embellishment is more generally utilized, and it is this preponderance
of life--botanic artistry--that causes these worlds to be called "the gardens
of God."

About one half of Edentia is devoted to the exquisite gardens of the Most
Highs, and these gardens are among the most entrancing morontia creations of
the local universe. This explains why the extraordinarily beautiful places on
the inhabited worlds of Norlatiadek are so often called "the garden of Eden."

Centrally located in this magnificent garden is the worship shrine of the Most
Highs. The Psalmist must have known something about these things, for he wrote:
"Who shall ascend the hill of the Most Highs? Who shall stand in this holy
place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not lifted up his soul
to vanity nor sworn deceitfully." At this shrine the Most Highs, on every tenth
day of relaxation, lead all Edentia in the worshipful contemplation of God the
Supreme.

The architectural worlds enjoy ten forms of life of the material order. On
Urantia there is plant and animal life, but on such a world as Edentia there
are ten divisions of the material orders of life. Were you to view these ten
divisions of Edentia life, you would quickly classify the first three as
vegetable and the last three as animal, but you would be utterly unable to
comprehend the nature of the intervening four groups of prolific and
fascinating forms of life.

Even the distinctively animal life is very different from that of the
evolutionary worlds, so different that it is quite impossible to portray to
mortal minds the unique character and affectionate nature of these nonspeaking
creatures. There are thousands upon thousands of living creatures which your
imagination could not possibly picture. The whole animal creation is of an
entirely different order from the gross animal species of the evolutionary
planets. But all this animal life is most intelligent and exquisitely
serviceable, and all the various species are surprisingly gentle and touchingly
companionable. There are no carnivorous creatures on such architectural worlds;
there is nothing in all Edentia to make any living being afraid.

The vegetable life is also very different from that of Urantia, consisting of
both material and morontia varieties. The material growths have a
characteristic green coloration, but the morontia equivalents of vegetative
life have a violet or orchid tinge of varying hue and reflection. Such morontia
vegetation is purely an energy growth; when eaten there is no residual portion.

Being endowed with ten divisions of physical life, not to mention the morontia
variations, these architectural worlds provide tremendous possibilities for the
biologic beautification of the landscape and of the material and the morontia
structures. The celestial artisans direct the native spornagia in this
extensive work of botanic decoration and biologic embellishment. Whereas your
artists must resort to inert paint and lifeless marble to portray their
concepts, the celestial artisans and the univitatia more frequently utilize
living materials to represent their ideas and to capture their ideals.

                                top of page - 493

If you enjoy the flowers, shrubs, and trees of Urantia, then will you feast
your eyes upon the botanical beauty and the floral grandeur of the supernal
gardens of Edentia. But it is beyond my powers of description to undertake to
convey to the mortal mind an adequate concept of these beauties of the heavenly
worlds. Truly, eye has not seen such glories as await your arrival on these
worlds of the mortal-ascension adventure.

7. THE UNIVITATIA

Univitatia are the permanent citizens of Edentia and its associated worlds, all
seven hundred seventy worlds surrounding the constellation headquarters being
under their supervision. These children of the Creator Son and the Creative
Spirit are projected on a plane of existence in between the material and the
spiritual, but they are not morontia creatures. The natives of each of the
seventy major spheres of Edentia possess different visible forms, and the
morontia mortals have their morontia forms attuned to correspond with the
ascending scale of the univitatia each time they change residence from one
Edentia sphere to another as they pass successively from world number one to
world number seventy.

Spiritually, the univitatia are alike; intellectually, they vary as do mortals;
in form, they much resemble the morontia state of existence, and they are
created to function in seventy diverse orders of personality. Each of these
orders of univitatia exhibits ten major variations of intellectual activity,
and each of these varying intellectual types presides over the special training
and cultural schools of progressive occupational or practical socialization on
some one of the ten satellites which swing around each of the major Edentia
worlds.

These seven hundred minor worlds are technical spheres of practical education
in the working of the entire local universe and are open to all classes of
intelligent beings. These training schools of special skill and technical
knowledge are not conducted exclusively for ascending mortals, although
morontia students constitute by far the largest group of all those who attend
these courses of training. When you are received on any one of the seventy
major worlds of social culture, you are immediately given clearance for each of
the ten surrounding satellites.

In the various courtesy colonies, ascending morontia mortals predominate among
the reversion directors, but the univitatia represent the largest group
associated with the Nebadon corps of celestial artisans. In all Orvonton no
extra-Havona beings excepting the Uversa abandonters can equal the univitatia
in artistic skill, social adaptability, and co-ordinating cleverness.

These citizens of the constellation are not actually members of the artisan
corps, but they freely work with all groups and contribute much to making the
constellation worlds the chief spheres for the realization of the magnificent
artistic possibilities of transition culture. They do not function beyond the
confines of the constellation headquarters worlds.

8. THE EDENTIA TRAINING WORLDS

The physical endowment of Edentia and its surrounding spheres is well-nigh
perfect; they could hardly equal the spiritual grandeur of the spheres of
Salvington, but they far surpass the glories of the training worlds of Jerusem.
All

                                top of page - 494

these Edentia spheres are energized directly by the universal space currents,
and their enormous power systems, both material and morontial, are expertly
supervised and distributed by the constellation centers, assisted by a
competent corps of Master Physical Controllers and Morontia Power Supervisors.

The time spent on the seventy training worlds of transition morontia culture
associated with the Edentia age of mortal ascension, is the most settled period
in an ascending mortal's career up to the status of a finaliter; this is really
the typical morontia life. While you are re-keyed each time you pass from one
major cultural world to another, you retain the same morontia body, and there
are no periods of personality unconsciousness.

Your sojourn on Edentia and its associated spheres will be chiefly occupied
with the mastery of group ethics, the secret of pleasant and profitable
interrelationship between the various universe and superuniverse orders of
intelligent personalities.

On the mansion worlds you completed the unification of the evolving mortal
personality; on the system capital you attained Jerusem citizenship and
achieved the willingness to submit the self to the disciplines of group
activities and co-ordinated undertakings; but now on the constellation training
worlds you are to achieve the real socialization of your evolving morontia
personality. This supernal cultural acquirement consists in learning how to:

1. Live happily and work effectively with ten diverse fellow morontians, while
ten such groups are associated in companies of one hundred and then federated
in corps of one thousand.

2. Abide joyfully and co-operate heartily with ten univitatia, who, though
similar intellectually to morontia beings, are very different in every other
way. And then must you function with this group of ten as it co-ordinates with
ten other families, which are in turn confederated into a corps of one thousand
univitatia.

3. Achieve simultaneous adjustment to both fellow morontians and these host
univitatia. Acquire the ability voluntarily and effectively to co-operate with
your own order of beings in close working association with a somewhat
dissimilar group of intelligent creatures.

4. While thus socially functioning with beings like and unlike yourself,
achieve intellectual harmony with, and make vocational adjustment to, both
groups of associates.

5. While attaining satisfactory socialization of the personality on
intellectual and vocational levels, further perfect the ability to live in
intimate contact with similar and slightly dissimilar beings with
ever-lessening irritability and ever-diminishing resentment. The reversion
directors contribute much to this latter attainment through their group-play
activities.

6. Adjust all of these various socialization techniques to the furtherance of
the progressive co-ordination of the Paradise-ascension career; augment
universe insight by enhancing the ability to grasp the eternal goal-meanings
concealed within these seemingly insignificant time-space activities.

7. And then, climax all of these procedures of multisocialization with the
concurrent enhancement of spiritual insight as it pertains to the augmentation
of all phases of personal endowment through group spiritual association and
morontia co-ordination. Intellectually, socially, and spiritually two moral
crea-

                                top of page - 495

tures do not merely double their personal potentials of universe achievement by
partnership technique; they more nearly quadruple their attainment and
accomplishment possibilities.

We have portrayed Edentia socialization as an association of a morontia mortal
with a univitatia family group consisting of ten intellectually dissimilar
individuals concomitant with a similar association with ten fellow morontians.
But on the first seven major worlds only one ascending mortal lives with ten
univitatia. On the second group of seven major worlds two mortals abide with
each native group of ten, and so on up until, on the last group of seven major
spheres, ten morontia beings are domiciled with ten univitatia. As you learn
how better to socialize with the univitatia, you will practice such improved
ethics in your relations with your fellow morontia progressors.

As ascending mortals you will enjoy your sojourn on the progress worlds of
Edentia, but you will not experience that personal thrill of satisfaction which
characterizes your initial contact with universe affairs on the system
headquarters or your farewell touch with these realities on the final worlds of
the universe capital.

9. CITIZENSHIP ON EDENTIA

After graduation from world number seventy, ascending mortals take up residence
on Edentia. Ascenders now, for the first time, attend the "assemblies of
Paradise" and hear the story of their far-flung career as it is depicted by the
Faithful of Days, the first of the Supreme Trinity-origin Personalities they
have met.

This entire sojourn on the constellation training worlds, culminating in
Edentia citizenship, is a period of true and heavenly bliss for the morontia
progressors. Throughout your sojourn on the system worlds you were evolving
from a near-animal to a morontia creature; you were more material than
spiritual. On the Salvington spheres you will be evolving from a morontia being
to the status of a true spirit; you will be more spiritual than material. But
on Edentia, ascenders are midway between their former and their future estates,
midway in their passage from evolutionary animal to ascending spirit. During
your whole stay on Edentia and its worlds you are "as the angels"; you are
constantly progressing but all the while maintaining a general and a typical
morontia status.

This constellation sojourn of an ascending mortal is the most uniform and
stabilized epoch in the entire career of morontia progression. This experience
constitutes the prespirit socialization training of the ascenders. It is
analogous to the prefinaliter spiritual experience of Havona and to the
preabsonite training on Paradise.

Ascending mortals on Edentia are chiefly occupied with the assignments on the
seventy progressive univitatia worlds. They also serve in varied capacities on
Edentia itself, mainly in conjunction with the constellation program concerned
with group, racial, national, and planetary welfare. The Most Highs are not so
much engaged in fostering individual advancement on the inhabited worlds; they
rule in the kingdoms of men rather than in the hearts of individuals.

And on that day when you are prepared to leave Edentia for the Salvington
career, you will pause and look back on one of the most beautiful and most re-

                                top of page - 496

freshing of all your epochs of training this side of Paradise. But the glory of
it all augments as you ascend inward and achieve increased capacity for
enlarged appreciation of divine meanings and spiritual values.

[Sponsored by Malavatia Melchizedek.]

                                top of page - 497

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   Energy--mind   ³   The Celestial   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      An...       ³       A...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
