            Urantia Book Paper 45 The Local System Administration
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Paper 45 The Local System Administration

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE administrative center of Satania consists of a cluster of architectural
spheres, fifty-seven in number--Jerusem itself, the seven major satellites, and
the forty-nine subsatellites. Jerusem, the system capital, is almost one
hundred times the size of Urantia, although its gravity is a trifle less.
Jerusem's major satellites are the seven transition worlds, each of which is
about ten times as large as Urantia, while the seven subsatellites of these
transition spheres are just about the size of Urantia.

The seven mansion worlds are the seven subsatellites of transition world number
one.

This entire system of fifty-seven architectural worlds is independently
lighted, heated, watered, and energized by the co-ordination of the Satania
Power Center and the Master Physical Controllers in accordance with the
established technique of the physical organization and arrangement of these
specially created spheres. They are also physically cared for and otherwise
maintained by the native spornagia.

1. TRANSITIONAL CULTURE WORLDS

The seven major worlds swinging around Jerusem are generally known as the
transitional culture spheres. Their rulers are designated from time to time by
the Jerusem supreme executive council. These spheres are numbered and named as
follows:

Number 1. The Finaliter World. This is the headquarters of the finaliter corps
of the local system and is surrounded by the receiving worlds, the seven
mansion worlds, dedicated so fully to the scheme of mortal ascension. The
finaliter world is accessible to the inhabitants of all seven mansion worlds.
Transport seraphim carry ascending personalities back and forth on these
pilgrimages, which are designed to cultivate their faith in the ultimate
destiny of transition mortals. Although the finaliters and their structures are
not ordinarily perceptible to morontia vision, you will be more than thrilled,
from time to time, when the energy transformers and the Morontia Power
Supervisors enable you momentarily to glimpse these high spirit personalities
who have actually completed the Paradise ascension, and who have returned to
the very worlds where you are beginning this long journey, as the pledge of
assurance that you may and can complete the stupendous undertaking. All mansion
world sojourners go to the finaliter sphere at least once a year for these
assemblies of finaliter visualization.

                                top of page - 510

Number 2. The Morontia World. This planet is the headquarters of the
supervisors of morontia life and is surrounded by the seven spheres whereon the
morontia chiefs train their associates and helpers, both morontia beings and
ascending mortals.

In passing through the seven mansion worlds, you will also progress through
these cultural and social spheres of increasing morontia contact. When you
advance from the first to the second mansion world, you will become eligible
for a visitor's permit to transitional headquarters number two, the morontia
world, and so on. And when present on any one of these six cultural spheres,
you may, on invitation, become a visitor and observer on any of the seven
surrounding worlds of associated group activities.

Number 3. The Angelic World. This is the headquarters of all the seraphic hosts
engaged in system activities and is surrounded by the seven worlds of angelic
training and instruction. These are the seraphic social spheres.

Number 4. The Superangel World. This sphere is the Satania home of the
Brilliant Evening Stars and a vast concourse of co-ordinate and
near-co-ordinate beings. The seven satellites of this world are assigned to the
seven major groups of these unnamed celestial beings.

Number 5. The World of the Sons. This planet is the headquarters of the divine
Sons of all orders, including the creature-trinitized sons. The surrounding
seven worlds are devoted to certain individual groupings of these divinely
related sons.

Number 6. The World of the Spirit. This sphere serves as the system rendezvous
of the high personalities of the Infinite Spirit. Its seven surrounding
satellites are assigned to individual groups of these diverse orders. But on
transition world number six there is no representation of the Spirit, neither
is such a presence to be observed on the system capitals; the Divine Minister
of Salvington is everywhere in Nebadon.

Number 7. The World of the Father. This is the silent sphere of the system. No
group of beings is domiciled on it. The great temple of light occupies a
central place, but no one can be discerned therein. All beings of all the
system worlds are welcomed as worshipers.

The seven satellites surrounding the Father's world are variously utilized in
the different systems. In Satania they are now used as the detention spheres
for the interned groups of the Lucifer rebellion. The constellation capital,
Edentia, has no analogous prison worlds; the few seraphim and cherubim who went
over to the rebels in the Satania rebellion have been long since confined on
these isolation worlds of Jerusem.

As a sojourner on the seventh mansion world, you have access to the seventh
transition world, the sphere of the Universal Father, and are also permitted to
visit the Satania prison worlds surrounding this planet, whereon are now
confined Lucifer and the majority of those personalities who followed him in
rebellion against Michael. And this sad spectacle has been observable during
these recent ages and will continue to serve as a solemn warning to all Nebadon
until the Ancients of Days shall adjudicate the sin of Lucifer and his fallen
associates who rejected the salvation proffered by Michael, their universe
Father.

                                top of page - 511

2. THE SYSTEM SOVEREIGN

The chief executive of a local system of inhabited worlds is a primary
Lanonandek Son, the System Sovereign. In our local universe these sovereigns
are intrusted with large executive responsibilities, unusual personal
prerogatives. Not all universes, even in Orvonton, are so organized as to
permit the System Sovereigns to exercise such unusually wide powers of personal
discretion in the direction of system affairs. But in all the history of
Nebadon these untrammeled executives have exhibited disloyalty only three
times. The Lucifer rebellion in the system of Satania was the last and the most
widespread of all.

In Satania, even after this disastrous upheaval, absolutely no changes have
been made in the technique of system administration. The present System
Sovereign possesses all the power and exercises all the authority that were
invested in his unworthy predecessor except for certain matters now under the
supervision of the Constellation Fathers which the Ancients of Days have not
yet fully restored to Lanaforge, the successor of Lucifer.

The present head of Satania is a gracious and brilliant ruler, and he is a
rebellion-tested sovereign. When serving as an assistant System Sovereign,
Lanaforge was faithful to Michael in an earlier upheaval in the universe of
Nebadon. This mighty and brilliant Lord of Satania is a tried and tested
administrator. At the time of the second system rebellion in Nebadon, when the
System Sovereign stumbled and fell into darkness, Lanaforge, the first
assistant to the erring chief, seized the reins of government and so conducted
the affairs of the system that comparatively few personalities were lost either
on the headquarters worlds or on the inhabited planets of that unfortunate
system. Lanaforge bears the distinction of being the only primary Lanonandek
Son in all Nebadon who thus functioned loyally in the service of Michael and in
the very presence of the default of his brother of superior authority and
antecedent rank. Lanaforge will probably not be removed from Jerusem until all
the results of the former folly have been overcome and the products of
rebellion removed from Satania.

While all the affairs of the isolated worlds of Satania have not been returned
to his jurisdiction, Lanaforge discloses great interest in their welfare, and
he is a frequent visitor on Urantia. As in other and normal systems, the
Sovereign presides over the system council of world rulers, the Planetary
Princes and the resident governors general of the isolated worlds. This
planetary council assembles from time to time on the headquarters of the
system--"When the Sons of God come together."

Once a week, every ten days on Jerusem, the Sovereign holds a conclave with
some one group of the various orders of personalities domiciled on the
headquarters world. These are the charmingly informal hours of Jerusem, and
they are never-to-be-forgotten occasions. On Jerusem there exists the utmost
fraternity between all the various orders of beings and between each of these
groups and the System Sovereign.

These unique assemblages occur on the sea of glass, the great gathering field
of the system capital. They are purely social and spiritual occasions; nothing
pertaining to the planetary administration or even to the ascendant plan is
ever discussed. Ascending mortals come together at these times merely to enjoy
themselves and to meet their fellow Jerusemites. Those groups which are not

                                top of page - 512

being entertained by the Sovereign at these weekly relaxations meet at their
own headquarters.

3. THE SYSTEM GOVERNMENT

The chief executive of a local system, the System Sovereign, is always
supported by two or three Lanonandek Sons, who function as first and second
assistants. But at the present time the system of Satania is administered by a
staff of seven Lanonandeks:

1. The System Sovereign--Lanaforge, number 2,709 of the primary order and
successor to the apostate Lucifer.

2. The first assistant Sovereign--Mansurotia, number 17,841 of the tertiary
Lanonandeks. He was dispatched to Satania along with Lanaforge.

3. The second assistant Sovereign--Sadib, number 271,402 of the tertiary order.
Sadib also came to Satania with Lanaforge.

4. The custodian of the system--Holdant, number 19 of the tertiary corps, the
holder and controller of all interned spirits above the order of mortal
existence. Holdant likewise came to Satania with Lanaforge.

5. The system recorder--Vilton, secretary of the Lanonandek ministry of
Satania, number 374 of the third order. Vilton was a member of the original
Lanaforge group.

6. The bestowal director--Fortant, number 319,847 of the reserves of the
secondary Lanonandeks and temporary director of all universe activities
transplanted to Jerusem since Michael's bestowal on Urantia. Fortant has been
attached to the staff of Lanaforge for nineteen hundred years of Urantia time.

7. The high counselor--Hanavard, number 67 of the primary Lanonandek Sons and a
member of the high corps of universe counselors and co-ordinators. He functions
as acting chairman of the executive council of Satania. Hanavard is the twelfth
of this order so to serve on Jerusem since the Lucifer rebellion.

This executive group of seven Lanonandeks constitutes the expanded emergency
administration made necessary by the exigencies of the Lucifer rebellion. There
are only minor courts on Jerusem since the system is the unit of
administration, not adjudication, but the Lanonandek administration is
supported by the Jerusem executive council, the supreme advisory body of
Satania. This council consists of twelve members:

1. Hanavard, the Lanonandek chairman.

2. Lanaforge, the System Sovereign.

3. Mansurotia, the first assistant Sovereign.

4. The chief of Satania Melchizedeks.

5. The acting director of the Satania Life Carriers.

6. The chief of the Satania finaliters.

7. The original Adam of Satania, the supervising head of the Material Sons.

8. The director of the Satania seraphic hosts.

9. The chief of the Satania physical controllers.

10. The director of the system Morontia Power Supervisors.

                                top of page - 513

11. The acting director of system midway creatures.

12. The acting head of the corps of ascending mortals.

This council periodically chooses three members to represent the local system
on the supreme council at universe headquarters, but this representation is
suspended by rebellion. Satania now has an observer at the headquarters of the
local universe, but since the bestowal of Michael the system has resumed the
election of ten members to the Edentia legislature.

4. THE FOUR AND TWENTY COUNSELORS

At the center of the seven angelic residential circles on Jerusem is located
the headquarters of the Urantia advisory council, the four and twenty
counselors. John the Revelator called them the four and twenty elders: "And
round about the throne were four and twenty seats, and upon the seats I saw
four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white raiment." The throne in the
center of this group is the judgment seat of the presiding archangel, the
throne of the resurrection roll call of mercy and justice for all Satania. This
judgment seat has always been on Jerusem, but the twenty-four surrounding seats
were placed in position no more than nineteen hundred years ago, soon after
Christ Michael was elevated to the full sovereignty of Nebadon. These four and
twenty counselors are his personal agents on Jerusem, and they have authority
to represent the Master Son in all matters concerning the roll calls of Satania
and in many other phases of the scheme of mortal ascension on the isolated
worlds of the system. They are the designated agents for executing the special
requests of Gabriel and the unusual mandates of Michael.

These twenty-four counselors have been recruited from the eight Urantia races,
and the last of this group were assembled at the time of the resurrection roll
call of Michael, nineteen hundred years ago. This Urantia advisory council is
made up of the following members:

1. Onagar, the master mind of the pre-Planetary Prince age, who directed his
fellows in the worship of "The Breath Giver."

2. Mansant, the great teacher of the post-Planetary Prince age on Urantia, who
pointed his fellows to the veneration of "The Great Light."

3. Onamonalonton, a far-distant leader of the red man and the one who directed
this race from the worship of many gods to the veneration of "The Great
Spirit."

4. Orlandof, a prince of the blue men and their leader in the recognition of
the divinity of "The Supreme Chief."

5. Porshunta, the oracle of the extinct orange race and the leader of this
people in the worship of "The Great Teacher."

6. Singlangton, the first of the yellow men to teach and lead his people in the
worship of "One Truth" instead of many. Thousands of years ago the yellow man
knew of the one God.

7. Fantad, the deliverer of the green men from darkness and their leader in the
worship of "The One Source of Life."

8. Orvonon, the enlightener of the indigo races and their leader in the onetime
service of "The God of Gods."

                                top of page - 514

9. Adam, the discredited but rehabilitated planetary father of Urantia, a
Material Son of God who was relegated to the likeness of mortal flesh, but who
survived and was subsequently elevated to this position by the decree of
Michael.

10. Eve, the mother of the violet race of Urantia, who suffered the penalty of
default with her mate and was also rehabilitated with him and assigned to serve
with this group of mortal survivors.

11. Enoch, the first of the mortals of Urantia to fuse with the Thought
Adjuster during the mortal life in the flesh.

12. Moses, the emancipator of a remnant of the submerged violet race and the
instigator of the revival of the worship of the Universal Father under the name
of "The God of Israel."

13. Elijah, a translated soul of brilliant spiritual achievement during the
post-Material Son age.

14. Machiventa Melchizedek, the only Son of this order to bestow himself upon
the Urantia races. While still numbered as a Melchizedek, he has become
"forever a minister of the Most Highs," eternally assuming the assignment of
service as a mortal ascender, having sojourned on Urantia in the likeness of
mortal flesh at Salem in the days of Abraham. This Melchizedek has latterly
been proclaimed vicegerent Planetary Prince of Urantia with headquarters on
Jerusem and authority to act in behalf of Michael, who is actually the
Planetary Prince of the world whereon he experienced his terminal bestowal in
human form. Notwithstanding this, Urantia is still supervised by successive
resident governors general, members of the four and twenty counselors.

15. John the Baptist, the forerunner of Michael's mission on Urantia and, in
the flesh, distant cousin of the Son of Man.

16. 1-2-3 the First, the leader of the loyal midway creatures in the service of
Gabriel at the time of the Caligastia betrayal, elevated to this position by
Michael soon after his entrance upon unconditioned sovereignty.

These selected personalities are exempt from the ascension regime for the time
being, on Gabriel's request, and we have no idea how long they may serve in
this capacity.

Seats numbers 17, 18, 19, and 20 are not permanently occupied. They are
temporarily filled by the unanimous consent of the sixteen permanent members,
being kept open for later assignment to ascending mortals from the present
post-bestowal Son age on Urantia.

Numbers 21, 22, 23, and 24 are likewise temporarily filled while being held in
reserve for the great teachers of other and subsequent ages which undoubtedly
will follow the present age. Eras of the Magisterial Sons and Teacher Sons and
the ages of light and life are to be anticipated on Urantia, regardless of
unexpected visitations of divine Sons which may or may not occur.

5. THE MATERIAL SONS

The great divisions of celestial life have their headquarters and immense
preserves on Jerusem, including the various orders of divine Sons, high
spirits, superangels, angels, and midway creatures. The central abode of this
wonderful sector is the chief temple of the Material Sons.

                                top of page - 515

The domain of the Adams is the center of attraction to all new arrivals on
Jerusem. It is an enormous area consisting of one thousand centers, although
each family of Material Sons and Daughters lives on an estate of its own up to
the time of the departure of its members for service on the evolutionary worlds
of space or until their embarkation upon the Paradise-ascension career.

These Material Sons are the highest type of sex-reproducing beings to be found
on the training spheres of the evolving universes. And they are really
material; even the Planetary Adams and Eves are plainly visible to the mortal
races of the inhabited worlds. These Material Sons are the last and physical
link in the chain of personalities extending from divinity and perfection above
down to humanity and material existence below. These Sons provide the inhabited
worlds with a mutually contactable intermediary between the invisible Planetary
Prince and the material creatures of the realms.

At the last millennial registration on Salvington there were of record in
Nebadon 161,432,840 Material Sons and Daughters of citizenship status on the
local system capitals. The number of Material Sons varies in the different
systems, and their number is being constantly increased by natural
reproduction. In the exercise of their reproductive functions they are not
guided wholly by the personal desires of the contacting personalities but also
by the higher governing bodies and advisory councils.

These Material Sons and Daughters are the permanent inhabitants of Jerusem and
its associated worlds. They occupy vast estates on Jerusem and participate
liberally in the local management of the capital sphere, administering
practically all routine affairs with the assistance of the midwayers and the
ascenders.

On Jerusem these reproducing Sons are permitted to experiment with the ideals
of self-government after the manner of the Melchizedeks, and they are achieving
a very high type of society. The higher orders of sonship reserve the veto
functions of the realm, but in nearly every respect the Jerusem Adamites govern
themselves by universal suffrage and representative government. Some time they
hope to be granted virtually complete autonomy.

The character of the service of the Material Sons is largely determined by
their ages. While they are not eligible for admission to the Melchizedek
University of Salvington--being material and ordinarily limited to certain
planets--nevertheless, the Melchizedeks maintain strong faculties of teachers
on the headquarters of each system for the instruction of the younger
generations of Material Sons. The educational and spiritual training systems
provided for the development of the younger Material Sons and Daughters are the
acme of perfection in scope, technique, and practicability.

6. ADAMIC TRAINING OF ASCENDERS

The Material Sons and Daughters, together with their children, present an
engaging spectacle which never fails to arouse the curiosity and intrigue the
attention of all ascending mortals. They are so similar to your own material
sex races that you both find much of common interest to engage your thoughts
and occupy your seasons of fraternal contact.

Mortal survivors spend much of their leisure on the system capital observing
and studying the life habits and conduct of these superior semiphysical sex

                                top of page - 516

creatures, for these citizens of Jerusem are the immediate sponsors and mentors
of the mortal survivors from the time they attain citizenship on the
headquarters world until they take leave for Edentia.

On the seven mansion worlds ascending mortals are afforded ample opportunities
for compensating any and all experiential deprivations suffered on their worlds
of origin, whether due to inheritance, environment, or unfortunate premature
termination of the career in the flesh. This is in every sense true except in
the mortal sex life and its attendant adjustments. Thousands of mortals reach
the mansion worlds without having benefited particularly from the disciplines
derived from fairly average sex relations on their native spheres. The mansion
world experience can provide little opportunity for compensating these very
personal deprivations. Sex experience in a physical sense is past for these
ascenders, but in close association with the Material Sons and Daughters, both
individually and as members of their families, these sex-deficient mortals are
enabled to compensate the social, intellectual, emotional, and spiritual
aspects of their deficiency. Thus are all those humans whom circumstances or
bad judgment deprived of the benefits of advantageous sex association on the
evolutionary worlds, here on the system capitals afforded full opportunity to
acquire these essential mortal experiences in close and loving association with
the supernal Adamic sex creatures of permanent residence on the system
capitals.

No surviving mortal, midwayer, or seraphim may ascend to Paradise, attain the
Father, and be mustered into the Corps of the Finality without having passed
through that sublime experience of achieving parental relationship to an
evolving child of the worlds or some other experience analogous and equivalent
thereto. The relationship of child and parent is fundamental to the essential
concept of the Universal Father and his universe children. Therefore does such
an experience become indispensable to the experiential training of all
ascenders.

The ascending midway creatures and the evolutionary seraphim must pass through
this parenthood experience in association with the Material Sons and Daughters
of the system headquarters. Thus do such nonreproducing ascenders obtain the
experience of parenthood by assisting the Jerusem Adams and Eves in rearing and
training their progeny.

All mortal survivors who have not experienced parenthood on the evolutionary
worlds must also obtain this necessary training while sojourning in the homes
of the Jerusem Material Sons and as parental associates of these superb fathers
and mothers. This is true except in so far as such mortals have been able to
compensate their deficiencies on the system nursery located on the first
transitional-culture world of Jerusem.

This probation nursery of Satania is maintained by certain morontia
personalities on the finaliters' world, one half of the planet being devoted to
this work of child rearing. Here are received and reassembled certain children
of surviving mortals, such as those offspring who perished on the evolutionary
worlds before acquiring spiritual status as individuals. The ascension of
either of its natural parents insures that such a mortal child of the realms
will be accorded repersonalization on the system finaliter planet and there be
permitted to demonstrate by subsequent freewill choice whether or not it elects
to follow the parental path of mortal ascension. Children here appear as on the
nativity world except for the absence of sex differentiation. There is no
reproduction of mortal kind after the life experience on the inhabited worlds.

                                top of page - 517

Mansion world students who have one or more children in the probationary
nursery on the finaliters' world, and who are deficient in essential parental
experience, may apply for a Melchizedek permit which will effect their
temporary transfer from ascension duties on the mansion worlds to the finaliter
world, where they are granted opportunity to function as associate parents to
their own and other children. This service of parental ministry may be later
accredited on Jerusem as the fulfillment of one half of the training which such
ascenders are required to undergo in the families of the Material Sons and
Daughters.

The probation nursery itself is supervised by one thousand couples of Material
Sons and Daughters, volunteers from the Jerusem colony of their order. They are
immediately assisted by about an equal number of volunteer midsonite parental
groups who stop off here to render this service on their way from the midsonite
world of Satania to the unrevealed destiny on their special worlds of
reservation among the finaliter spheres of Salvington.

7. THE MELCHIZEDEK SCHOOLS

The Melchizedeks are the directors of that large corps of
instructors--partially spiritualized will creatures and others--who function so
acceptably on Jerusem and its associated worlds but especially on the seven
mansion worlds. These are the detention planets, where those mortals who fail
to achieve fusion with their indwelling Adjusters during the life in the flesh
are rehabilitated in transient form to receive further help and to enjoy
extended opportunity for continuing their strivings for spiritual attainment,
those very efforts which were prematurely interrupted by death. Or if, for any
other reason of hereditary handicap, unfavorable environment, or conspiracy of
circumstances, this soul attainment was not completed, no matter what the
reason, all who are true of purpose and worthy in spirit find themselves, as
themselves, present on the continuing planets, where they must learn to master
the essentials of the eternal career, to possess themselves of traits which
they could not, or did not, acquire during the lifetime in the flesh.

The Brilliant Evening Stars (and their unnamed co-ordinates) frequently serve
as teachers in the various educational enterprises of the universe, including
those sponsored by the Melchizedeks. Also do the Trinity Teacher Sons
collaborate, and they impart the touches of Paradise perfection to these
progressive training schools. But all these activities are not exclusively
devoted to the advancement of ascending mortals; many are equally occupied with
the progressive training of the native spirit personalities of Nebadon.

The Melchizedek Sons conduct upward of thirty different educational centers on
Jerusem. These training schools begin with the college of self-evaluation and
end with the schools of Jerusem citizenship, wherein the Material Sons and
Daughters join with the Melchizedeks and others in their supreme effort to
qualify the mortal survivors for the assumption of the high responsibilities of
representative government. The entire universe is organized and administered on
the representative plan. Representative government is the divine ideal of
self-government among nonperfect beings.

Every one hundred years of universe time each system selects its ten
representatives to sit in the constellation legislature. They are chosen by the
Jerusem council of one thousand, an elective body charged with the duty of
representing the system groups in all such delegated or appointive matters. All
repre-

                                top of page - 518

sentatives or other delegates are selected by the council of one thousand
electors, and they must be graduates of the highest school of the Melchizedek
College of Administration, as also are all of those who constitute this group
of one thousand electors. This school is fostered by the Melchizedeks, latterly
assisted by the finaliters.

There are many elective bodies on Jerusem, and they are voted into authority
from time to time by three orders of citizenship--the Material Sons and
Daughters, the seraphim and their associates, including midway creatures, and
the ascending mortals. To receive nomination for representative honor a
candidate must have gained requisite recognition from the Melchizedek schools
of administration.

Suffrage is universal on Jerusem among these three groups of citizenship, but
the vote is differentially cast in accordance with the recognized and duly
registered personal possession of mota--morontia wisdom. The vote cast at a
Jerusem election by any one personality has a value ranging from one up to one
thousand. Jerusem citizens are thus classified in accordance with their mota
achievement.

From time to time Jerusem citizens present themselves to the Melchizedek
examiners, who certify to their attainment of morontia wisdom. Then they go
before the examining corps of the Brilliant Evening Stars or their designates,
who ascertain the degree of spirit insight. Next they appear in the presence of
the four and twenty counselors and their associates, who pass upon their status
of experiential attainment of socialization. These three factors are then
carried to the citizenship registrars of representative government, who quickly
compute the mota status and assign suffrage qualifications in accordance
therewith.

Under the supervision of the Melchizedeks the ascending mortals, especially
those who are tardy in their personality unification on the new morontia
levels, are taken in hand by the Material Sons and are given intensive training
designed to rectify such deficiencies. No ascending mortal leaves the system
headquarters for the more extensive and varied socialization career of the
constellation until these Material Sons certify to the achievement of mota
personality--an individuality combining the completed mortal existence in
experiential association with the budding morontia career, both being duly
blended by the spiritual overcontrol of the Thought Adjuster.

[Presented by a Melchizedek of temporary assignment on Urantia.]

                                top of page - 519

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³  The Celestial   ³     The Local     ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³       A...       ³     Syste...      ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
