             Urantia Book Paper 46 The Local System Headquarters
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 46 The Local System Headquarters

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

JERUSEM, the headquarters of Satania, is an average capital of a local system,
and aside from numerous irregularities occasioned by the Lucifer rebellion and
the bestowal of Michael on Urantia, it is typical of similar spheres. Your
local system has passed through some stormy experiences, but it is at present
being administered most efficiently, and as the ages pass, the results of
disharmony are being slowly but surely eradicated. Order and good will are
being restored, and the conditions on Jerusem are more and more approaching the
heavenly status of your traditions, for the system headquarters is truly the
heaven visualized by the majority of twentieth-century religious believers.

1. PHYSICAL ASPECTS OF JERUSEM

Jerusem is divided into one thousand latitudinal sectors and ten thousand
longitudinal zones. The sphere has seven major capitals and seventy minor
administrative centers. The seven sectional capitals are concerned with diverse
activities, and the System Sovereign is present in each at least once a year.

The standard mile of Jerusem is equivalent to about seven Urantia miles. The
standard weight, the "gradant," is built up through the decimal system from the
mature ultimaton and represents almost exactly ten ounces of your weight. The
Satania day equals three days of Urantia time, less one hour, four minutes, and
fifteen seconds, that being the time of the axial revolution of Jerusem. The
system year consists of one hundred Jerusem days. The time of the system is
broadcast by the master chronoldeks.

The energy of Jerusem is superbly controlled and circulates about the sphere in
the zone channels, which are directly fed from the energy charges of space and
expertly administered by the Master Physical Controllers. The natural
resistance to the passage of these energies through the physical channels of
conduction yields the heat required for the production of the equable
temperature of Jerusem. The full-light temperature is maintained at about 70
degrees Fahrenheit, while during the period of light recession it falls to a
little lower than 50 degrees.

The lighting system of Jerusem should not be so difficult for you to
comprehend. There are no days and nights, no seasons of heat and cold. The
power transformers maintain one hundred thousand centers from which rarefied
energies are projected upward through the planetary atmosphere, undergoing
certain changes, until they reach the electric air-ceiling of the sphere; and
then

                                top of page - 520

these energies are reflected back and down as a gentle, sifting, and even light
of about the intensity of Urantia sunlight when the sun is shining overhead at
ten o'clock in the morning.

Under such conditions of lighting, the light rays do not seem to come from one
place; they just sift out of the sky, emanating equally from all space
directions. This light is very similar to natural sunlight except that it
contains very much less heat. Thus it will be recognized that such headquarters
worlds are not luminous in space; if Jerusem were very near Urantia, it would
not be visible.

The gases which reflect this light-energy from the Jerusem upper ionosphere
back to the ground are very similar to those in the Urantia upper air belts
which are concerned with the auroral phenomena of your so-called northern
lights, although these are produced by different causes. On Urantia it is this
same gas shield which prevents the escape of the terrestrial broadcast waves,
reflecting them earthward when they strike this gas belt in their direct
outward flight. In this way broadcasts are held near the surface as they
journey through the air around your world.

This lighting of the sphere is uniformly maintained for seventy-five per cent
of the Jerusem day, and then there is a gradual recession until, at the time of
minimum illumination, the light is about that of your full moon on a clear
night. This is the quiet hour for all Jerusem. Only the broadcast-receiving
stations are in operation during this period of rest and rehabilitation.

Jerusem receives faint light from several near-by suns--a sort of brilliant
starlight--but it is not dependent on them, worlds like Jerusem are not subject
to the vicissitudes of sun disturbances, neither are they confronted with the
problem of a cooling or dying sun.

The seven transitional study worlds and their forty-nine satellites are heated,
lighted, energized, and watered by the Jerusem technique.

2. PHYSICAL FEATURES OF JERUSEM

On Jerusem you will miss the rugged mountain ranges of Urantia and other
evolved worlds since there are neither earthquakes nor rainfalls, but you will
enjoy the beauteous highlands and other unique variations of topography and
landscape. Enormous areas of Jerusem are preserved in a "natural state," and
the grandeur of such districts is quite beyond the powers of human imagination.

There are thousands upon thousands of small lakes but no raging rivers nor
expansive oceans. There is no rainfall, neither storms nor blizzards, on any of
the architectural worlds, but there is the daily precipitation of the
condensation of moisture during the time of lowest temperature attending the
light recession. (The dew point is higher on a three-gas world than on a
two-gas planet like Urantia.) The physical plant life and the morontia world of
living things both require moisture, but this is largely supplied by the
subsoil system of circulation which extends all over the sphere, even up to the
very tops of the highlands. This water system is not entirely subsurface, for
there are many canals interconnecting the sparkling lakes of Jerusem.

The atmosphere of Jerusem is a three-gas mixture. This air is very similar to
that of Urantia with the addition of a gas adapted to the respiration of the
morontia order of life. This third gas in no way unfits the air for the
respiration of animals or plants of the material orders.

                                top of page - 521

The transportation system is allied with the circulatory streams of energy
movement, these main energy currents being located at ten-mile intervals. By
adjustment of physical mechanisms the material beings of the planet can proceed
at a pace varying from two to five hundred miles per hour. The transport birds
fly at about one hundred miles an hour. The air mechanisms of the Material Sons
travel around five hundred miles per hour. Material and early morontia beings
must utilize these mechanical means of transport, but spirit personalities
proceed by liaison with the superior forces and spirit sources of energy.

Jerusem and its associated worlds are endowed with the ten standard divisions
of physical life characteristic of the architectural spheres of Nebadon. And
since there is no organic evolution on Jerusem, there are no conflicting forms
of life, no struggle for existence, no survival of the fittest. Rather is there
a creative adaptation which foreshadows the beauty, the harmony, and the
perfection of the eternal worlds of the central and divine universe. And in all
this creative perfection there is the most amazing intermingling of physical
and of morontia life, artistically contrasted by the celestial artisans and
their fellows.

Jerusem is indeed a foretaste of paradisiacal glory and grandeur. But you can
never hope to gain an adequate idea of these glorious architectural worlds by
any attempted description. There is so little that can be compared with aught
on your world, and even then the things of Jerusem so transcend the things of
Urantia that the comparison is almost grotesque. Until you actually arrive on
Jerusem, you can hardly entertain anything like a true concept of the heavenly
worlds, but that is not so long a time in the future when your coming
experience on the system capital is compared with your sometime arrival on the
more remote training spheres of the universe, the superuniverse, and of Havona.

The manufacturing or laboratory sector of Jerusem is an extensive domain, one
which Urantians would hardly recognize since it has no smoking chimneys;
nevertheless, there is an intricate material economy associated with these
special worlds, and there is a perfection of mechanical technique and physical
achievement which would astonish and even awe your most experienced chemists
and inventors. Pause to consider that this first world of detention in the
Paradise journey is far more material than spiritual. Throughout your stay on
Jerusem and its transition worlds you are far nearer your earth life of
material things than your later life of advancing spirit existence.

Mount Seraph is the highest elevation on Jerusem, almost fifteen thousand feet,
and is the point of departure for all transport seraphim. Numerous mechanical
developments are used in providing initial energy for escaping the planetary
gravity and overcoming the air resistance. A seraphic transport departs every
three seconds of Urantia time throughout the light period and, sometimes, far
into the recession. The transporters take off at about twenty-five standard
miles per second of Urantia time and do not attain standard velocity until they
are over two thousand miles away from Jerusem.

Transports arrive on the crystal field, the so-called sea of glass. Around this
area are the receiving stations for the various orders of beings who traverse
space by seraphic transport. Near the polar crystal receiving station for
student visitors you may ascend the pearly observatory and view the immense
relief map of the entire headquarters planet.

                                top of page - 522

3. THE JERUSEM BROADCASTS

The superuniverse and Paradise-Havona broadcasts are received on Jerusem in
liaison with Salvington and by a technique involving the polar crystal, the sea
of glass. In addition to provisions for the reception of these extra-Nebadon
communications, there are three distinct groups of receiving stations. These
separate but tricircular groups of stations are adjusted to the reception of
broadcasts from the local worlds, from the constellation headquarters, and from
the capital of the local universe. All these broadcasts are automatically
displayed so as to be discernible by all types of beings present in the central
broadcast amphitheater; of all preoccupations for an ascendant mortal on
Jerusem, none is more engaging and engrossing than that of listening in on the
never-ending stream of universe space reports.

This Jerusem broadcast-receiving station is encircled by an enormous
amphitheater, constructed of scintillating materials largely unknown on Urantia
and seating over five billion beings--material and morontia--besides
accommodating innumerable spirit personalities. It is the favorite diversion
for all Jerusem to spend their leisure at the broadcast station, there to learn
of the welfare and state of the universe. And this is the only planetary
activity which is not slowed down during the recession of light.

At this broadcast-receiving amphitheater the Salvington messages are coming in
continuously. Near by, the Edentia word of the Most High Constellation Fathers
is received at least once a day. Periodically the regular and special
broadcasts of Uversa are relayed through Salvington, and when Paradise messages
are in reception, the entire population is assembled around the sea of glass,
and the Uversa friends add the reflectivity phenomena to the technique of the
Paradise broadcast so that everything heard becomes visible. And it is in this
manner that continual foretastes of advancing beauty and grandeur are afforded
the mortal survivors as they journey inward on the eternal adventure.

The Jerusem sending station is located at the opposite pole of the sphere. All
broadcasts to the individual worlds are relayed from the system capitals except
the Michael messages, which sometimes go direct to their destinations over the
archangels' circuit.

4. RESIDENTIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE AREAS

Considerable portions of Jerusem are assigned as residential areas, while other
portions of the system capital are given over to the necessary administrative
functions involving the supervision of the affairs of 619 inhabited spheres, 56
transitional-culture worlds, and the system capital itself. On Jerusem and in
Nebadon these arrangements are designed as follows:

1. The circles--the nonnative residential areas.

2. The squares--the system executive-administrative areas.

3. The rectangles--the rendezvous of the lower native life.

4. The triangles--the local or Jerusem administrative areas.

This arrangement of the system activities into circles, squares, rectangles,
and triangles is common to all the system capitals of Nebadon. In another uni-

                                top of page - 523

verse an entirely different arrangement might prevail. These are matters
determined by the diverse plans of the Creator Sons.

Our narrative of these residential and administrative areas takes no account of
the vast and beautiful estates of the Material Sons of God, the permanent
citizens of Jerusem, neither do we mention numerous other fascinating orders of
spirit and near-spirit creatures. For example: Jerusem enjoys the efficient
services of the spironga of design for system function. These beings are
devoted to spiritual ministry in behalf of the supermaterial residents and
visitors. They are a wonderful group of intelligent and beautiful beings who
are the transition servants of the higher morontia creatures and of the
morontia helpers who labor for the upkeep and embellishment of all morontia
creations. They are on Jerusem what the midway creatures are on Urantia, midway
helpers functioning between the material and the spiritual.

The system capitals are unique in that they are the only worlds which exhibit
well-nigh perfectly all three phases of universe existence: the material, the
morontial, and the spiritual. Whether you are a material, morontia, or spirit
personality, you will feel at home on Jerusem; so also do the combined beings,
such as the midway creatures and the Material Sons.

Jerusem has great buildings of both material and morontia types, while the
embellishment of the purely spiritual zones is no less exquisite and replete.
If I only had words to tell you of the morontia counterparts of the marvelous
physical equipment of Jerusem! If I could only go on to portray the sublime
grandeur and exquisite perfection of the spiritual appointments of this
headquarters world! Your most imaginative concept of perfection of beauty and
repleteness of appointment would hardly approach these grandeurs. And Jerusem
is but the first step on the way to the supernal perfection of Paradise beauty.

5. THE JERUSEM CIRCLES

The residential reservations assigned to the major groups of universe life are
designated the Jerusem circles. Those circle groups which find mention in these
narratives are the following:

1. The circles of the Sons of God.

2. The circles of the angels and higher spirits.

3. The circles of the Universe Aids, including the creature-trinitized sons not
assigned to the Trinity Teacher Sons.

4. The circles of the Master Physical Controllers.

5. The circles of the assigned ascending mortals, including the midway
creatures.

6. The circles of the courtesy colonies.

7. The circles of the Corps of the Finality.

Each of these residential groupings consists of seven concentric and
successively elevated circles.

                                top of page - 524

They are all constructed along the same lines but are of different sizes and
are fashioned of differing materials. They are all surrounded by far-reaching
enclosures, which mount up to form extensive promenades entirely encompassing
every group of seven concentric circles.

1. Circles of the Sons of God. Though the Sons of God possess a social planet
of their own, one of the transitional-culture worlds, they also occupy these
extensive domains on Jerusem. On their transitional-culture world the ascending
mortals freely mingle with all orders of divine sonship. There you will
personally know and love these Sons, but their social life is largely confined
to this special world and its satellites. In the Jerusem circles, however,
these various groups of sonship may be observed at work. And since morontia
vision is of enormous range, you can walk about on the Sons' promenades and
overlook the intriguing activities of their numerous orders.

These seven circles of the Sons are concentric and successively elevated so
that each of the outer and larger circles overlooks the inner and smaller ones,
each being surrounded by a public promenade wall. These walls are constructed
of crystal gems of gleaming brightness and are so elevated as to overlook all
of their respective residential circles. The many gates--from fifty to one
hundred and fifty thousand--which penetrate each of these walls consist of
single pearly crystals.

The first circle of the domain of the Sons is occupied by the Magisterial Sons
and their personal staffs. Here center all of the plans and immediate
activities of the bestowal and adjudicational services of these juridical Sons.
It is also through this center that the Avonals of the system maintain contact
with the universe.

The second circle is occupied by the Trinity Teacher Sons. In this sacred
domain the Daynals and their associates carry forward the training of the newly
arrived primary Teacher Sons. And in all of this work they are ably assisted by
a division of certain co-ordinates of the Brilliant Evening Stars. The
creature-trinitized sons occupy a sector of the Daynal circle. The Trinity
Teacher Sons come the nearest to being the personal representatives of the
Universal Father in a local system; they are at least Trinity-origin beings.
This second circle is a domain of extraordinary interest to all the peoples of
Jerusem.

The third circle is devoted to the Melchizedeks. Here the system chiefs reside
and supervise the almost endless activities of these versatile Sons. From the
first of the mansion worlds on through all the Jerusem career of ascending
mortals, the Melchizedeks are foster fathers and ever-present advisers. It
would not be amiss to say that they are the dominant influence on Jerusem aside
from the ever-present activities of the Material Sons and Daughters.

The fourth circle is the home of the Vorondadeks and all other orders of the
visiting and observer Sons who are not otherwise provided for. The Most High
Constellation Fathers take up their abode in this circle when on visits of
inspection to the local system. Perfectors of Wisdom, Divine Counselors, and
Universal Censors all reside in this circle when on duty in the system.

The fifth circle is the abode of the Lanonandeks, the sonship order of the
System Sovereigns and the Planetary Princes. The three groups mingle as one
when at home in this domain. The system reserves are held in this circle, while
the System Sovereign has a temple situated at the center of the governing group
of structures on administration hill.

The sixth circle is the tarrying place of the system Life Carriers. All orders
of these Sons are here assembled, and from here they go forth on their world
assignments.

The seventh circle is the rendezvous of the ascending sons, those assigned
mortals who may be temporarily functioning on the system headquarters, to-

                                top of page - 525

gether with their seraphic consorts. All ex-mortals above the status of Jerusem
citizens and below that of finaliters are reckoned as belonging to the group
having its headquarters in this circle.

These circular reservations of the Sons occupy an enormous area, and until
nineteen hundred years ago there existed a great open space at its center. This
central region is now occupied by the Michael memorial, completed some five
hundred years ago. Four hundred and ninety-five years ago, when this temple was
dedicated, Michael was present in person, and all Jerusem heard the touching
story of the Master Son's bestowal on Urantia, the least of Satania. The
Michael memorial is now the center of all activities embraced in the modified
management of the system occasioned by Michael's bestowal, including most of
the more recently transplanted Salvington activities. The memorial staff
consists of over one million personalities.

2. The circles of the angels. Like the residential area of the Sons, these
circles of the angels consist of seven concentric and successively elevated
circles, each overlooking the inner areas.

The first circle of the angels is occupied by the Higher Personalities of the
Infinite Spirit who may be stationed on the headquarters world--Solitary
Messengers and their associates. The second circle is dedicated to the
messenger hosts, Technical Advisers, companions, inspectors, and recorders as
they may chance to function on Jerusem from time to time. The third circle is
held by the ministering spirits of the higher orders and groupings.

The fourth circle is held by the administrator seraphim, and the seraphim
serving in a local system like Satania are an "innumerable host of angels." The
fifth circle is occupied by the planetary seraphim, while the sixth is the home
of the transition ministers. The seventh circle is the tarrying sphere of
certain unrevealed orders of seraphim. The recorders of all these groups of
angels do not sojourn with their fellows, being domiciled in the Jerusem temple
of records. All records are preserved in triplicate in this threefold hall of
archives. On a system headquarters, records are always preserved in material,
in morontia, and in spirit form.

These seven circles are surrounded by the exhibit panorama of Jerusem, five
thousand standard miles in circumference, which is devoted to the presentation
of the advancing status of the peopled worlds of Satania and is constantly
revised so as to truly represent up-to-date conditions on the individual
planets. I doubt not that this vast promenade overlooking the circles of the
angels will be the first sight of Jerusem to claim your attention when you are
permitted extended leisure on your earlier visits.

These exhibits are in charge of the native life of Jerusem, but they are
assisted by the ascenders from the various Satania worlds who are tarrying on
Jerusem en route to Edentia. The portrayal of planetary conditions and world
progress is effected by many methods, some known to you, but mostly by
techniques unknown on Urantia. These exhibits occupy the outer edge of this
vast wall. The remainder of the promenade is almost entirely open, being highly
and magnificently embellished.

3. The circles of the Universe Aids have the headquarters of the Evening Stars
situated in the enormous central space. Here is located the system headquarters
of Galantia, the associate head of this powerful group of superangels,

                                top of page - 526

being the first commissioned of all the ascendant Evening Stars. This is one of
the most magnificent of all the administrative sectors of Jerusem, even though
it is among the more recent constructions. This center is fifty miles in
diameter. The Galantia headquarters is a monolithic cast crystal, wholly
transparent. These material-morontia crystals are greatly appreciated by both
morontia and material beings. The created Evening Stars exert their influence
all over Jerusem, being possessed of such extrapersonality attributes. The
entire world has been rendered spiritually fragrant since so many of their
activities were transferred here from Salvington.

4. The circles of the Master Physical Controllers. The various orders of the
Master Physical Controllers are concentrically arranged around the vast temple
of power, wherein presides the power chief of the system in association with
the chief of the Morontia Power Supervisors. This temple of power is one of two
sectors on Jerusem where ascending mortals and midway creatures are not
permitted. The other one is the dematerializing sector in the area of the
Material Sons, a series of laboratories wherein the transport seraphim
transform material beings into a state quite like that of the morontia order of
existence.

5. The circles of the ascending mortals. The central area of the circles of the
ascending mortals is occupied by a group of 619 planetary memorials
representative of the inhabited worlds of the system, and these structures
periodically undergo extensive changes. It is the privilege of the mortals from
each world to agree, from time to time, upon certain of the alterations or
additions to their planetary memorials. Many changes are even now being made in
the Urantia structures. The center of these 619 temples is occupied by a
working model of Edentia and its many worlds of ascendant culture. This model
is forty miles in diameter and is an actual reproduction of the Edentia system,
true to the original in every detail.

Ascenders enjoy their Jerusem services and take pleasure in observing the
techniques of other groups. Everything done in these various circles is open to
the full observation of all Jerusem.

The activities of such a world are of three distinct varieties: work, progress,
and play. Stated otherwise, they are: service, study, and relaxation. The
composite activities consist of social intercourse, group entertainment, and
divine worship. There is great educational value in mingling with diverse
groups of personalities, orders very different from one's own fellows.

6. The circles of the courtesy colonies. The seven circles of the courtesy
colonies are graced by three enormous structures: the vast astronomic
observatory of Jerusem, the gigantic art gallery of Satania, and the immense
assembly hall of the reversion directors, the theater of morontia activities
devoted to rest and recreation.

The celestial artisans direct the spornagia and provide the host of creative
decorations and monumental memorials which abound in every place of public
assembly. The studios of these artisans are among the largest and most
beautiful of all the matchless structures of this wonderful world. The other
courtesy colonies maintain extensive and beautiful headquarters. Many of these
buildings are constructed wholly of crystal gems. All the architectural worlds
abound in crystals and the so-called precious metals.

                                top of page - 527

7. The circles of the finaliters have a unique structure at the center. And
this same vacant temple is found on every system headquarters world throughout
Nebadon. This edifice on Jerusem is sealed with the insignia of Michael, and it
bears this inscription: "Undedicated to the seventh stage of spirit--to the
eternal assignment." Gabriel placed the seal on this temple of mystery, and
none but Michael can or may break the seal of sovereignty affixed by the Bright
and Morning Star. Some day you shall look upon this silent temple, even though
you may not penetrate its mystery.

Other Jerusem circles: In addition to these residential circles there are on
Jerusem numerous additional designated abodes.

6. THE EXECUTIVE-ADMINISTRATIVE SQUARES

The executive-administrative divisions of the system are located in the immense
departmental squares, one thousand in number. Each administrative unit is
divided into one hundred subdivisions of ten subgroups each. These one thousand
squares are clustered in ten grand divisions, thus constituting the following
ten administrative departments:

1. Physical maintenance and material improvement, the domains of physical power
and energy.

2. Arbitration, ethics, and administrative adjudication.

3. Planetary and local affairs.

4. Constellation and universe affairs.

5. Education and other Melchizedek activities.

6. Planetary and system physical progress, the scientific domains of Satania
activities.

7. Morontia affairs.

8. Pure spirit activities and ethics.

9. Ascendant ministry.

10. Grand universe philosophy.

These structures are transparent; hence all system activities can be viewed
even by student visitors.

7. THE RECTANGLES--THE SPORNAGIA

The one thousand rectangles of Jerusem are occupied by the lower native life of
the headquarters planet, and at their center is situated the vast circular
headquarters of the spornagia.

On Jerusem you will be amazed by the agricultural achievements of the wonderful
spornagia. There the land is cultivated largely for aesthetic and ornamental
effects. The spornagia are the landscape gardeners of the headquarters worlds,
and they are both original and artistic in their treatment of the open spaces
of Jerusem. They utilize both animals and numerous mechanical contrivances in
the culture of the soil. They are intelligently expert in the employment of the
power agencies of their realms as well as in the utilization of numerous orders
of their lesser brethren of the lower animal creations, many of

                                top of page - 528

which are provided them on these special worlds. This order of animal life is
now largely directed by the ascending midway creatures from the evolutionary
spheres.

Spornagia are not Adjuster indwelt. They do not possess survival souls, but
they do enjoy long lives, sometimes to the extent of forty to fifty thousand
standard years. Their number is legion, and they afford physical ministry to
all orders of universe personalities requiring material service.

Although spornagia neither possess nor evolve survival souls, though they do
not have personality, nevertheless, they do evolve an individuality which can
experience reincarnation. When, with the passing of time, the physical bodies
of these unique creatures deteriorate from usage and age, their creators, in
collaboration with the Life Carriers, fabricate new bodies in which the old
spornagia re-establish their residences.

Spornagia are the only creatures in all the universe of Nebadon who experience
this or any other sort of reincarnation. They are only reactive to the first
five of the adjutant mind-spirits; they are not responsive to the spirits of
worship and wisdom. But the five-adjutant mind equivalates to a totality or
sixth reality level, and it is this factor which persists as an experiential
identity.

I am quite without comparisons in undertaking to describe these useful and
unusual creatures as there are no animals on the evolutionary worlds comparable
to them. They are not evolutionary beings, having been projected by the Life
Carriers in their present form and status. They are bisexual and procreate as
they are required to meet the needs of a growing population.

Perhaps I can best suggest to Urantia minds something of the nature of these
beautiful and serviceable creatures by saying that they embrace the combined
traits of a faithful horse and an affectionate dog and manifest an intelligence
exceeding that of the highest type of chimpanzee. And they are very beautiful,
as judged by the physical standards of Urantia. They are most appreciative of
the attentions shown them by the material and semimaterial sojourners on these
architectural worlds. They have a vision which permits them to recognize--in
addition to material beings--the morontia creations, the lower angelic orders,
midway creatures, and some of the lower orders of spirit personalities. They do
not comprehend worship of the Infinite, nor do they grasp the import of the
Eternal, but they do, through affection for their masters, join in the outward
spiritual devotions of their realms.

There are those who believe that, in a future universe age, these faithful
spornagia will escape from their animal level of existence and attain a worthy
evolutional destiny of progressive intellectual growth and even spiritual
achievement.

8. THE JERUSEM TRIANGLES

The purely local and routine affairs of Jerusem are directed from the one
hundred triangles. These units are clustered around the ten marvelous
structures domiciling the local administration of Jerusem. The triangles are
surrounded by the panoramic depiction of the system headquarters history. At
present there is an erasure of over two standard miles in this circular story.
This sector will be restored upon the readmission of Satania into the
constellation family. Every provision for this event has been made by the
decrees of

                                top of page - 529

Michael, but the tribunal of the Ancients of Days has not yet finished the
adjudication of the affairs of the Lucifer rebellion. Satania may not come back
into the full fellowship of Norlatiadek so long as it harbors archrebels, high
created beings who have fallen from light into darkness.

When Satania can return to the constellation fold, then will come up for
consideration the readmission of the isolated worlds into the system family of
inhabited planets, accompanied by their restoration to the spiritual communion
of the realms. But even if Urantia were restored to the system circuits, you
would still be embarrassed by the fact that your whole system rests under a
Norlatiadek quarantine partially segregating it from all other systems.

But ere long, the adjudication of Lucifer and his associates will restore the
Satania system to the Norlatiadek constellation, and subsequently, Urantia and
the other isolated spheres will be restored to the Satania circuits, and again
will such worlds enjoy the privileges of interplanetary communication and
intersystem communion.

There will come an end for rebels and rebellion. The Supreme Rulers are
merciful and patient, but the law of deliberately nourished evil is universally
and unerringly executed. "The wages of sin is death"--eternal obliteration.

[Presented by an Archangel of Nebadon.]

                                top of page - 530

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³    The Local     ³     The Seven     ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³     Syste...     ³     Mansi...      ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
