                Urantia Book Paper 47 The Seven Mansion Worlds
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Paper 47 The Seven Mansion Worlds

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE Creator Son, when on Urantia, spoke of the "many mansions in the Father's
universe." In a certain sense, all fifty-six of the encircling worlds of
Jerusem are devoted to the transitional culture of ascending mortals, but the
seven satellites of world number one are more specifically known as the mansion
worlds.

Transition world number one itself is quite exclusively devoted to ascendant
activities, being the headquarters of the finaliter corps assigned to Satania.
This world now serves as the headquarters for more than one hundred thousand
companies of finaliters, and there are one thousand glorified beings in each of
these groups.

When a system is settled in light and life, and as the mansion worlds one by
one cease to serve as mortal-training stations, they are taken over by the
increasing finaliter population which accumulates in these older and more
highly perfected systems.

The seven mansion worlds are in the charge of the morontia supervisors and the
Melchizedeks. There is an acting governor on each world who is directly
responsible to the Jerusem rulers. The Uversa conciliators maintain
headquarters on each of the mansion worlds, while adjoining is the local
rendezvous of the Technical Advisers. The reversion directors and celestial
artisans maintain group headquarters on each of these worlds. The spironga
function from mansion world number two onward, while all seven, in common with
the other transitional-culture planets and the headquarters world, are
abundantly provided with spornagia of standard creation.

1. THE FINALITERS' WORLD

Although only finaliters and certain groups of salvaged children and their
caretakers are resident on transitional world number one, provision is made for
the entertainment of all classes of spirit beings, transition mortals, and
student visitors. The spornagia, who function on all of these worlds, are
hospitable hosts to all beings whom they can recognize. They have a vague
feeling concerning the finaliters but cannot visualize them. They must regard
them much as you do the angels in your present physical state.

Though the finaliter world is a sphere of exquisite physical beauty and
extraordinary morontia embellishment, the great spirit abode located at the
center of activities, the temple of the finaliters, is not visible to the
unaided material or early morontia vision. But the energy transformers are able
to visualize many of these realities to ascending mortals, and from time to
time they do thus function, as on the occasions of the class assemblies of the
mansion world students on this cultural sphere.

                                top of page - 531

All through the mansion world experience you are in a way spiritually aware of
the presence of your glorified brethren of Paradise attainment, but it is very
refreshing, now and then, actually to perceive them as they function in their
headquarters abodes. You will not spontaneously visualize finaliters until you
acquire true spirit vision.

On the first mansion world all survivors must pass the requirements of the
parental commission from their native planets. The present Urantia commission
consists of twelve parental couples, recently arrived, who have had mortal
experience in rearing three or more children to the pubescent age. Service on
this commission is rotational and is for only ten years as a rule. All who fail
to satisfy these commissioners as to their parental experience must further
qualify by service in the homes of the Material Sons on Jerusem or in part in
the probationary nursery on the finaliters' world.

But irrespective of parental experience, mansion world parents who have growing
children in the probation nursery are given every opportunity to collaborate
with the morontia custodians of such children regarding their instruction and
training. These parents are permitted to journey there for visits as often as
four times a year. And it is one of the most touchingly beautiful scenes of all
the ascending career to observe the mansion world parents embrace their
material offspring on the occasions of their periodic pilgrimages to the
finaliter world. While one or both parents may leave a mansion world ahead of
the child, they are quite often contemporary for a season.

No ascending mortal can escape the experience of rearing children--their own or
others--either on the material worlds or subsequently on the finaliter world or
on Jerusem. Fathers must pass through this essential experience just as
certainly as mothers. It is an unfortunate and mistaken notion of modern
peoples on Urantia that child culture is largely the task of mothers. Children
need fathers as well as mothers, and fathers need this parental experience as
much as do mothers.

2. THE PROBATIONARY NURSERY

The infant-receiving schools of Satania are situated on the finaliter world,
the first of the Jerusem transition-culture spheres. These infant-receiving
schools are enterprises devoted to the nurture and training of the children of
time, including those who have died on the evolutionary worlds of space before
the acquirement of individual status on the universe records. In the event of
the survival of either or both of such a child's parents, the guardian of
destiny deputizes her associated cherubim as the custodian of the child's
potential identity, charging the cherubim with the responsibility of delivering
this undeveloped soul into the hands of the Mansion World Teachers in the
probationary nurseries of the morontia worlds.

It is these same deserted cherubim who, as Mansion World Teachers, under the
supervision of the Melchizedeks, maintain such extensive educational facilities
for the training of the probationary wards of the finaliters. These wards of
the finaliters, these infants of ascending mortals, are always personalized as
of their exact physical status at the time of death except for reproductive
potential. This awakening occurs at the exact time of the parental arrival on
the first mansion world. And then are these children given every opportunity,
as they

                                top of page - 532

are, to choose the heavenly way just as they would have made such a choice on
the worlds where death so untimely terminated their careers.

On the nursery world, probationary creatures are grouped according to whether
or not they have Adjusters, for the Adjusters come to indwell these material
children just as on the worlds of time. Children of pre-Adjuster ages are cared
for in families of five, ranging in ages from one year and under up to
approximately five years, or that age when the Adjuster arrives.

All children on the evolving worlds who have Thought Adjusters, but who before
death had not made a choice concerning the Paradise career, are also
repersonalized on the finaliter world of the system, where they likewise grow
up in the families of the Material Sons and their associates as do those little
ones who arrived without Adjusters, but who will subsequently receive the
Mystery Monitors after attaining the requisite age of moral choice.

The Adjuster-indwelt children and youths on the finaliter world are also reared
in families of five, ranging in ages from six to fourteen; approximately, these
families consist of children whose ages are six, eight, ten, twelve, and
fourteen. Any time after sixteen, if final choice has been made, they translate
to the first mansion world and begin their Paradise ascent. Some make a choice
before this age and go on to the ascension spheres, but very few children under
sixteen years of age, as reckoned by Urantia standards, will be found on the
mansion worlds.

The guardian seraphim attend these youths in the probationary nursery on the
finaliter world just as they spiritually minister to mortals on the
evolutionary planets, while the faithful spornagia minister to their physical
necessities. And so do these children grow up on the transition world until
such time as they make their final choice.

When material life has run its course, if no choice has been made for the
ascendant life, or if these children of time definitely decide against the
Havona adventure, death automatically terminates their probationary careers.
There is no adjudication of such cases; there is no resurrection from such a
second death. They simply become as though they had not been.

But if they choose the Paradise path of perfection, they are immediately made
ready for translation to the first mansion world, where many of them arrive in
time to join their parents in the Havona ascent. After passing through Havona
and attaining the Deities, these salvaged souls of mortal origin constitute the
permanent ascendant citizenship of Paradise. These children who have been
deprived of the valuable and essential evolutionary experience on the worlds of
mortal nativity are not mustered into the Corps of the Finality.

3. THE FIRST MANSION WORLD

On the mansion worlds the resurrected mortal survivors resume their lives just
where they left off when overtaken by death. When you go from Urantia to the
first mansion world, you will notice considerable change, but if you had come
from a more normal and progressive sphere of time, you would hardly notice the
difference except for the fact that you were in possession of a different body;
the tabernacle of flesh and blood has been left behind on the world of
nativity.

The very center of all activities on the first mansion world is the
resurrection hall, the enormous temple of personality assembly. This gigantic
structure consists of the central rendezvous of the seraphic destiny guardians,
the Thought

                                top of page - 533

Adjusters, and the archangels of the resurrection. The Life Carriers also
function with these celestial beings in the resurrection of the dead.

The mortal-mind transcripts and the active creature-memory patterns as
transformed from the material levels to the spiritual are the individual
possession of the detached Thought Adjusters; these spiritized factors of mind,
memory, and creature personality are forever a part of such Adjusters. The
creature mind-matrix and the passive potentials of identity are present in the
morontia soul intrusted to the keeping of the seraphic destiny guardians. And
it is the reuniting of the morontia-soul trust of the seraphim and the
spirit-mind trust of the Adjuster that reassembles creature personality and
constitutes resurrection of a sleeping survivor.

If a transitory personality of mortal origin should never be thus reassembled,
the spirit elements of the nonsurviving mortal creature would forever continue
as an integral part of the individual experiential endowment of the onetime
indwelling Adjuster.

From the Temple of New Life there extend seven radial wings, the resurrection
halls of the mortal races. Each of these structures is devoted to the assembly
of one of the seven races of time. There are one hundred thousand personal
resurrection chambers in each of these seven wings terminating in the circular
class assembly halls, which serve as the awakening chambers for as many as one
million individuals. These halls are surrounded by the personality assembly
chambers of the blended races of the normal post-Adamic worlds. Regardless of
the technique which may be employed on the individual worlds of time in
connection with special or dispensational resurrections, the real and conscious
reassembly of actual and complete personality takes place in the resurrection
halls of mansonia number one. Throughout all eternity you will recall the
profound memory impressions of your first witnessing of these resurrection
mornings.

From the resurrection halls you proceed to the Melchizedek sector, where you
are assigned permanent residence. Then you enter upon ten days of personal
liberty. You are free to explore the immediate vicinity of your new home and to
familiarize yourself with the program which lies immediately ahead. You also
have time to gratify your desire to consult the registry and call upon your
loved ones and other earth friends who may have preceded you to these worlds.
At the end of your ten-day period of leisure you begin the second step in the
Paradise journey, for the mansion worlds are actual training spheres, not
merely detention planets.

On mansion world number one (or another in case of advanced status) you will
resume your intellectual training and spiritual development at the exact level
whereon they were interrupted by death. Between the time of planetary death or
translation and resurrection on the mansion world, mortal man gains absolutely
nothing aside from experiencing the fact of survival. You begin over there
right where you leave off down here.

Almost the entire experience of mansion world number one pertains to deficiency
ministry. Survivors arriving on this first of the detention spheres present so
many and such varied defects of creature character and deficiencies of mortal
experience that the major activities of the realm are occupied with the
correction and cure of these manifold legacies of the life in the flesh on the
material evolutionary worlds of time and space.

                                top of page - 534

The sojourn on mansion world number one is designed to develop mortal survivors
at least up to the status of the post-Adamic dispensation on the normal
evolutionary worlds. Spiritually, of course, the mansion world students are far
in advance of such a state of mere human development.

If you are not to be detained on mansion world number one, at the end of ten
days you will enter the translation sleep and proceed to world number two, and
every ten days thereafter you will thus advance until you arrive on the world
of your assignment.

The center of the seven major circles of the first mansion world administration
is occupied by the temple of the Morontia Companions, the personal guides
assigned to ascending mortals. These companions are the offspring of the local
universe Mother Spirit, and there are several million of them on the morontia
worlds of Satania. Aside from those assigned as group companions, you will have
much to do with the interpreters and translators, the building custodians, and
the excursion supervisors. And all of these companions are most co-operative
with those who have to do with developing your personality factors of mind and
spirit within the morontia body.

As you start out on the first mansion world, one Morontia Companion is assigned
to each company of one thousand ascending mortals, but you will encounter
larger numbers as you progress through the seven mansion spheres. These
beautiful and versatile beings are companionable associates and charming
guides. They are free to accompany individuals or selected groups to any of the
transition-culture spheres, including their satellite worlds. They are the
excursion guides and leisure associates of all ascending mortals. They often
accompany survivor groups on periodic visits to Jerusem, and on any day you are
there, you can go to the registry sector of the system capital and meet
ascending mortals from all seven of the mansion worlds since they freely
journey back and forth between their residential abodes and the system
headquarters.

4. THE SECOND MANSION WORLD

It is on this sphere that you are more fully inducted into the mansonia life.
The groupings of the morontia life begin to take form; working groups and
social organizations start to function, communities take on formal proportions,
and the advancing mortals inaugurate new social orders and governmental
arrangements.

Spirit-fused survivors occupy the mansion worlds in common with the
Adjuster-fused ascending mortals. While the various orders of celestial life
differ, they are all friendly and fraternal. In all the worlds of ascension you
will find nothing comparable to human intolerance and the discriminations of
inconsiderate caste systems.

As you ascend the mansion worlds one by one, they become more crowded with the
morontia activities of advancing survivors. As you go forward, you will
recognize more and more of the Jerusem features added to the mansion worlds.
The sea of glass makes its appearance on the second mansonia.

A newly developed and suitably adjusted morontia body is acquired at the time
of each advance from one mansion world to another. You go to sleep with the
seraphic transport and awake with the new but undeveloped body in the
resurrection halls, much as when you first arrived on mansion world number

                                top of page - 535

one except that the Thought Adjuster does not leave you during these transit
sleeps between the mansion worlds. Your personality remains intact after you
once pass from the evolutionary worlds to the initial mansion world.

Your Adjuster memory remains fully intact as you ascend the morontia life.
Those mental associations that were purely animalistic and wholly material
naturally perished with the physical brain, but everything in your mental life
which was worth while, and which had survival value, was counterparted by the
Adjuster and is retained as a part of personal memory all the way through the
ascendant career. You will be conscious of all your worth-while experiences as
you advance from one mansion world to another and from one section of the
universe to another--even to Paradise.

Though you have morontia bodies, you continue, through all seven of these
worlds, to eat, drink, and rest. You partake of the morontia order of food, a
kingdom of living energy unknown on the material worlds. Both food and water
are fully utilized in the morontia body; there is no residual waste. Pause to
consider: Mansonia number one is a very material sphere, presenting the early
beginnings of the morontia regime. You are still a near human and not far
removed from the limited viewpoints of mortal life, but each world discloses
definite progress. From sphere to sphere you grow less material, more
intellectual, and slightly more spiritual. The spiritual progress is greatest
on the last three of these seven progressive worlds.

Biological deficiencies were largely made up on the first mansion world. There
defects in planetary experiences pertaining to sex life, family association,
and parental function were either corrected or were projected for future
rectification among the Material Son families on Jerusem.

Mansonia number two more specifically provides for the removal of all phases of
intellectual conflict and for the cure of all varieties of mental disharmony.
The effort to master the significance of morontia mota, begun on the first
mansion world, is here more earnestly continued. The development on mansonia
number two compares with the intellectual status of the post-Magisterial Son
culture of the ideal evolutionary worlds.

5. THE THIRD MANSION WORLD

Mansonia the third is the headquarters of the Mansion World Teachers. Though
they function on all seven of the mansion spheres, they maintain their group
headquarters at the center of the school circles of world number three. There
are millions of these instructors on the mansion and higher morontia worlds.
These advanced and glorified cherubim serve as morontia teachers all the way up
from the mansion worlds to the last sphere of local universe ascendant
training. They will be among the last to bid you an affectionate adieu when the
farewell time draws near, the time when you bid good-bye--at least for a few
ages--to the universe of your origin, when you enseraphim for transit to the
receiving worlds of the minor sector of the superuniverse.

When sojourning on the first mansion world, you have permission to visit the
first of the transition worlds, the headquarters of the finaliters and the
system probationary nursery for the nurture of undeveloped evolutionary
children. When you arrive on mansonia number two, you receive permission
periodically to visit transition world number two, where are located the
morontia supervisor headquarters for all Satania and the training schools for
the various

                                top of page - 536

morontia orders. When you reach mansion world number three, you are immediately
granted a permit to visit the third transition sphere, the headquarters of the
angelic orders and the home of their various system training schools. Visits to
Jerusem from this world are increasingly profitable and are of ever-heightening
interest to the advancing mortals.

Mansonia the third is a world of great personal and social achievement for all
who have not made the equivalent of these circles of culture prior to release
from the flesh on the mortal nativity worlds. On this sphere more positive
educational work is begun. The training of the first two mansion worlds is
mostly of a deficiency nature--negative--in that it has to do with
supplementing the experience of the life in the flesh. On this third mansion
world the survivors really begin their progressive morontia culture. The chief
purpose of this training is to enhance the understanding of the correlation of
morontia mota and mortal logic, the co-ordination of morontia mota and human
philosophy. Surviving mortals now gain practical insight into true metaphysics.
This is the real introduction to the intelligent comprehension of cosmic
meanings and universe interrelationships. The culture of the third mansion
world partakes of the nature of the postbestowal Son age of a normal inhabited
planet.

6. THE FOURTH MANSION WORLD

When you arrive on the fourth mansion world, you have well entered upon the
morontia career; you have progressed a long way from the initial material
existence. Now are you given permission to make visits to transition world
number four, there to become familiar with the headquarters and training
schools of the superangels, including the Brilliant Evening Stars. Through the
good offices of these superangels of the fourth transition world the morontia
visitors are enabled to draw very close to the various orders of the Sons of
God during the periodic visits to Jerusem, for new sectors of the system
capital are gradually opening up to the advancing mortals as they make these
repeated visits to the headquarters world. New grandeurs are progressively
unfolding to the expanding minds of these ascenders.

On the fourth mansonia the individual ascender more fittingly finds his place
in the group working and class functions of the morontia life. Ascenders here
develop increased appreciation of the broadcasts and other phases of local
universe culture and progress.

It is during the period of training on world number four that the ascending
mortals are really first introduced to the demands and delights of the true
social life of morontia creatures. And it is indeed a new experience for
evolutionary creatures to participate in social activities which are predicated
neither on personal aggrandizement nor on self-seeking conquest. A new social
order is being introduced, one based on the understanding sympathy of mutual
appreciation, the unselfish love of mutual service, and the overmastering
motivation of the realization of a common and supreme destiny--the Paradise
goal of worshipful and divine perfection. Ascenders are all becoming
self-conscious of God-knowing, God-revealing, God-seeking, and God-finding.

The intellectual and social culture of this fourth mansion world is comparable
to the mental and social life of the post-Teacher Son age on the planets of
normal evolution. The spiritual status is much in advance of such a mortal
dispensation.

                                top of page - 537

7. THE FIFTH MANSION WORLD

Transport to the fifth mansion world represents a tremendous forward step in
the life of a morontia progressor. The experience on this world is a real
foretaste of Jerusem life. Here you begin to realize the high destiny of the
loyal evolutionary worlds since they may normally progress to this stage during
their natural planetary development. The culture of this mansion world
corresponds in general to that of the early era of light and life on the
planets of normal evolutionary progress. And from this you can understand why
it is so arranged that the highly cultured and progressive types of beings who
sometimes inhabit these advanced evolutionary worlds are exempt from passing
through one or more, or even all, of the mansion spheres.

Having mastered the local universe language before leaving the fourth mansion
world, you now devote more time to the perfection of the tongue of Uversa to
the end that you may be proficient in both languages before arriving on Jerusem
with residential status. All ascending mortals are bilingual from the system
headquarters up to Havona. And then it is only necessary to enlarge the
superuniverse vocabulary, still additional enlargement being required for
residence on Paradise.

Upon arrival on mansonia number five the pilgrim is given permission to visit
the transition world of corresponding number, the Sons' headquarters. Here the
ascendant mortal becomes personally familiar with the various groups of divine
sonship. He has heard of these superb beings and has already met them on
Jerusem, but now he comes really to know them.

On the fifth mansonia you begin to learn of the constellation study worlds.
Here you meet the first of the instructors who begin to prepare you for the
subsequent constellation sojourn. More of this preparation continues on worlds
six and seven, while the finishing touches are supplied in the sector of the
ascending mortals on Jerusem.

A real birth of cosmic consciousness takes place on mansonia number five. You
are becoming universe minded. This is indeed a time of expanding horizons. It
is beginning to dawn upon the enlarging minds of the ascending mortals that
some stupendous and magnificent, some supernal and divine, destiny awaits all
who complete the progressive Paradise ascension, which has been so laboriously
but so joyfully and auspiciously begun. At about this point the average mortal
ascender begins to manifest bona fide experiential enthusiasm for the Havona
ascent. Study is becoming voluntary, unselfish service natural, and worship
spontaneous. A real morontia character is budding; a real morontia creature is
evolving.

8. THE SIXTH MANSION WORLD

Sojourners on this sphere are permitted to visit transition world number six,
where they learn more about the high spirits of the superuniverse, although
they are not able to visualize many of these celestial beings. Here they also
receive their first lessons in the prospective spirit career which so
immediately follows graduation from the morontia training of the local
universe.

The assistant System Sovereign makes frequent visits to this world, and the
initial instruction is here begun in the technique of universe administration.
The first lessons embracing the affairs of a whole universe are now imparted.

                                top of page - 538

This is a brilliant age for ascending mortals and usually witnesses the perfect
fusion of the human mind and the divine Adjuster. In potential, this fusion may
have occurred previously, but the actual working identity many times is not
achieved until the time of the sojourn on the fifth mansion world or even the
sixth.

The union of the evolving immortal soul with the eternal and divine Adjuster is
signalized by the seraphic summoning of the supervising superangel for
resurrected survivors and of the archangel of record for those going to
judgment on the third day; and then, in the presence of such a survivor's
morontia associates, these messengers of confirmation speak: "This is a beloved
son in whom I am well pleased." This simple ceremony marks the entrance of an
ascending mortal upon the eternal career of Paradise service.

Immediately upon the confirmation of Adjuster fusion the new morontia being is
introduced to his fellows for the first time by his new name and is granted the
forty days of spiritual retirement from all routine activities wherein to
commune with himself and to choose some one of the optional routes to Havona
and to select from the differential techniques of Paradise attainment.

But still are these brilliant beings more or less material; they are far from
being true spirits; they are more like supermortals, spiritually speaking,
still a little lower than the angels. But they are truly becoming marvelous
creatures.

During the sojourn on world number six the mansion world students achieve a
status which is comparable with the exalted development characterizing those
evolutionary worlds which have normally progressed beyond the initial stage of
light and life. The organization of society on this mansonia is of a high
order. The shadow of the mortal nature grows less and less as these worlds are
ascended one by one. You are becoming more and more adorable as you leave
behind the coarse vestiges of planetary animal origin. "Coming up through great
tribulation" serves to make glorified mortals very kind and understanding, very
sympathetic and tolerant.

9. THE SEVENTH MANSION WORLD

The experience on this sphere is the crowning achievement of the immediate
postmortal career. During your sojourn here you will receive the instruction of
many teachers, all of whom will co-operate in the task of preparing you for
residence on Jerusem. Any discernible differences between those mortals hailing
from the isolated and retarded worlds and those survivors from the more
advanced and enlightened spheres are virtually obliterated during the sojourn
on the seventh mansion world. Here you will be purged of all the remnants of
unfortunate heredity, unwholesome environment, and unspiritual planetary
tendencies. The last remnants of the "mark of the beast" are here eradicated.

While sojourning on mansonia number seven, permission is granted to visit
transition world number seven, the world of the Universal Father. Here you
begin a new and more spiritual worship of the unseen Father, a habit you will
increasingly pursue all the way up through your long ascending career. You find
the Father's temple on this world of transitional culture, but you do not see
the Father.

Now begins the formation of classes for graduation to Jerusem. You have gone
from world to world as individuals, but now you prepare to depart for

                                top of page - 539

Jerusem in groups, although, within certain limits, an ascender may elect to
tarry on the seventh mansion world for the purpose of enabling a tardy member
of his earthly or mansonia working group to catch up with him.

The personnel of the seventh mansonia assemble on the sea of glass to witness
your departure for Jerusem with residential status. Hundreds or thousands of
times you may have visited Jerusem, but always as a guest; never before have
you proceeded toward the system capital in the company of a group of your
fellows who were bidding an eternal farewell to the whole mansonia career as
ascending mortals. You will soon be welcomed on the receiving field of the
headquarters world as Jerusem citizens.

You will greatly enjoy your progress through the seven dematerializing worlds;
they are really demortalizing spheres. You are mostly human on the first
mansion world, just a mortal being minus a material body, a human mind housed
in a morontia form--a material body of the morontia world but not a mortal
house of flesh and blood. You really pass from the mortal state to the immortal
status at the time of Adjuster fusion, and by the time you have finished the
Jerusem career, you will be full-fledged morontians.

10. JERUSEM CITIZENSHIP

The reception of a new class of mansion world graduates is the signal for all
Jerusem to assemble as a committee of welcome. Even the spornagia enjoy the
arrival of these triumphant ascenders of evolutionary origin, those who have
run the planetary race and finished the mansion world progression. Only the
physical controllers and Morontia Power Supervisors are absent from these
occasions of rejoicing.

John the Revelator saw a vision of the arrival of a class of advancing mortals
from the seventh mansion world to their first heaven, the glories of Jerusem.
He recorded: "And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire; and those
who had gained the victory over the beast that was originally in them and over
the image that persisted through the mansion worlds and finally over the last
mark and trace, standing on the sea of glass, having the harps of God, and
singing the song of deliverance from mortal fear and death." (Perfected space
communication is to be had on all these worlds; and your anywhere reception of
such communications is made possible by carrying the "harp of God," a morontia
contrivance compensating for the inability to directly adjust the immature
morontia sensory mechanism to the reception of space communications.)

Paul also had a view of the ascendant-citizen corps of perfecting mortals on
Jerusem, for he wrote: "But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the
living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels, to
the grand assembly of Michael, and to the spirits of just men being made
perfect."

After mortals have attained residence on the system headquarters, no more
literal resurrections will be experienced. The morontia form granted you on
departure from the mansion world career is such as will see you through to the
end of the local universe experience. Changes will be made from time to time,
but you will retain this same form until you bid it farewell when you emerge as
first-stage spirits preparatory for transit to the superuniverse worlds of
ascending culture and spirit training.

                                top of page - 540

Seven times do those mortals who pass through the entire mansonia career
experience the adjustment sleep and the resurrection awakening. But the last
resurrection hall, the final awakening chamber, was left behind on the seventh
mansion world. No more will a form-change necessitate the lapse of
consciousness or a break in the continuity of personal memory.

The mortal personality initiated on the evolutionary worlds and tabernacled in
the flesh--indwelt by the Mystery Monitors and invested by the Spirit of
Truth--is not fully mobilized, realized, and unified until that day when such a
Jerusem citizen is given clearance for Edentia and proclaimed a true member of
the morontia corps of Nebadon--an immortal survivor of Adjuster association, a
Paradise ascender, a personality of morontia status, and a true child of the
Most Highs.

Mortal death is a technique of escape from the material life in the flesh; and
the mansonia experience of progressive life through seven worlds of corrective
training and cultural education represents the introduction of mortal survivors
to the morontia career, the transition life which intervenes between the
evolutionary material existence and the higher spirit attainment of the
ascenders of time who are destined to achieve the portals of eternity.

[Sponsored by a Brilliant Evening Star.]

                                top of page - 541

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³    The Local     ³   The Morontia    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³     Syste...     ³       Li...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
