                  Urantia Book Paper 49 The Inhabited Worlds
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Paper 49 The Inhabited Worlds

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

ALL mortal-inhabited worlds are evolutionary in origin and nature. These
spheres are the spawning ground, the evolutionary cradle, of the mortal races
of time and space. Each unit of the ascendant life is a veritable training
school for the stage of existence just ahead, and this is true of every stage
of man's progressive Paradise ascent; just as true of the initial mortal
experience on an evolutionary planet as of the final universe headquarters
school of the Melchizedeks, a school which is not attended by ascending mortals
until just before their translation to the regime of the superuniverse and the
attainment of first-stage spirit existence.

All inhabited worlds are basically grouped for celestial administration into
the local systems, and each of these local systems is limited to about one
thousand evolutionary worlds. This limitation is by the decree of the Ancients
of Days, and it pertains to actual evolutionary planets whereon mortals of
survival status are living. Neither worlds finally settled in light and life
nor planets in the prehuman stage of life development are reckoned in this
group.

Satania itself is an unfinished system containing only 619 inhabited worlds.
Such planets are numbered serially in accordance with their registration as
inhabited worlds, as worlds inhabited by will creatures. Thus was Urantia given
the number 606 of Satania, meaning the 606th world in this local system on
which the long evolutionary life process culminated in the appearance of human
beings. There are thirty-six uninhabited planets nearing the life-endowment
stage, and several are now being made ready for the Life Carriers. There are
nearly two hundred spheres which are evolving so as to be ready for life
implantation within the next few million years.

Not all planets are suited to harbor mortal life. Small ones having a high rate
of axial revolution are wholly unsuited for life habitats. In several of the
physical systems of Satania the planets revolving around the central sun are
too large for habitation, their great mass occasioning oppressive gravity. Many
of these enormous spheres have satellites, sometimes a half dozen or more, and
these moons are often in size very near that of Urantia, so that they are
almost ideal for habitation.

The oldest inhabited world of Satania, world number one, is Anova, one of the
forty-four satellites revolving around an enormous dark planet but exposed to
the differential light of three neighboring suns. Anova is in an advanced stage
of progressive civilization.

1. THE PLANETARY LIFE

The universes of time and space are gradual in development; the progression of
life--terrestrial or celestial--is neither arbitrary nor magical.

                                top of page - 560

Cosmic evolution may not always be understandable (predictable), but it is
strictly nonaccidental.

The biologic unit of material life is the protoplasmic cell, the communal
association of chemical, electrical, and other basic energies. The chemical
formulas differ in each system, and the technique of living cell reproduction
is slightly different in each local universe, but the Life Carriers are always
the living catalyzers who initiate the primordial reactions of material life;
they are the instigators of the energy circuits of living matter.

All the worlds of a local system disclose unmistakable physical kinship;
nevertheless, each planet has its own scale of life, no two worlds being
exactly alike in plant and animal endowment. These planetary variations in the
system life types result from the decisions of the Life Carriers. But these
beings are neither capricious nor whimsical; the universes are conducted in
accordance with law and order. The laws of Nebadon are the divine mandates of
Salvington, and the evolutionary order of life in Satania is in consonance with
the evolutionary pattern of Nebadon.

Evolution is the rule of human development, but the process itself varies
greatly on different worlds. Life is sometimes initiated in one center,
sometimes in three, as it was on Urantia. On the atmospheric worlds it usually
has a marine origin, but not always; much depends on the physical status of a
planet. The Life Carriers have great latitude in their function of life
initiation.

In the development of planetary life the vegetable form always precedes the
animal and is quite fully developed before the animal patterns differentiate.
All animal types are developed from the basic patterns of the preceding
vegetable kingdom of living things; they are not separately organized.

The early stages of life evolution are not altogether in conformity with your
present-day views. Mortal man is not an evolutionary accident. There is a
precise system, a universal law, which determines the unfolding of the
planetary life plan on the spheres of space. Time and the production of large
numbers of a species are not the controlling influences. Mice reproduce much
more rapidly than elephants, yet elephants evolve more rapidly than mice.

The process of planetary evolution is orderly and controlled. The development
of higher organisms from lower groupings of life is not accidental. Sometimes
evolutionary progress is temporarily delayed by the destruction of certain
favorable lines of life plasm carried in a selected species. It often requires
ages upon ages to recoup the damage occasioned by the loss of a single superior
strain of human heredity. These selected and superior strains of living
protoplasm should be jealously and intelligently guarded when once they make
their appearance. And on most of the inhabited worlds these superior potentials
of life are valued much more highly than on Urantia.

2. PLANETARY PHYSICAL TYPES

There is a standard and basic pattern of vegetable and animal life in each
system. But the Life Carriers are oftentimes confronted with the necessity of
modifying these basic patterns to conform to the varying physical conditions
which confront them on numerous worlds of space. They foster a generalized
system type of mortal creature, but there are seven distinct physical types as
well as thousands upon thousands of minor variants of these seven outstanding
differentiations:

                                top of page - 561

1. Atmospheric types.

2. Elemental types.

3. Gravity types.

4. Temperature types.

5. Electric types.

6. Energizing types.

7. Unnamed types.

The Satania system contains all of these types and numerous intermediate
groups, although some are very sparingly represented.

1. The atmospheric types. The physical differences of the worlds of mortal
habitation are chiefly determined by the nature of the atmosphere; other
influences which contribute to the planetary differentiation of life are
relatively minor.

The present atmospheric status of Urantia is almost ideal for the support of
the breathing type of man, but the human type can be so modified that it can
live on both the superatmospheric and the subatmospheric planets. Such
modifications also extend to the animal life, which differs greatly on the
various inhabited spheres. There is a very great modification of animal orders
on both the sub- and the superatmospheric worlds.

Of the atmospheric types in Satania, about two and one-half per cent are
subbreathers, about five per cent superbreathers, and over ninety-one per cent
are mid-breathers, altogether accounting for ninety-eight and one-half per cent
of the Satania worlds.

Beings such as the Urantia races are classified as mid-breathers; you represent
the average or typical breathing order of mortal existence. If intelligent
creatures should exist on a planet with an atmosphere similar to that of your
near neighbor, Venus, they would belong to the superbreather group, while those
inhabiting a planet with an atmosphere as thin as that of your outer neighbor,
Mars, would be denominated subbreathers.

If mortals should inhabit a planet devoid of air, like your moon, they would
belong to the separate order of nonbreathers. This type represents a radical or
extreme adjustment to the planetary environment and is separately considered.
Nonbreathers account for the remaining one and one-half per cent of Satania
worlds.

2. The elemental types. These differentiations have to do with the relation of
mortals to water, air, and land, and there are four distinct species of
intelligent life as they are related to these habitats. The Urantia races are
of the land order.

It is quite impossible for you to envisage the environment which prevails
during the early ages of some worlds. These unusual conditions make it
necessary for the evolving animal life to remain in its marine nursery habitat
for longer periods than on those planets which very early provide a hospitable
land-and-atmosphere environment. Conversely, on some worlds of the
superbreathers, when the planet is not too large, it is sometimes expedient to
provide for a mortal type which can readily negotiate atmospheric passage.
These air navigators sometimes intervene between the water and land groups, and
they always live in a measure upon the ground, eventually evolving into land
dwellers.

                                top of page - 562

But on some worlds, for ages they continue to fly even after they have become
land-type beings.

It is both amazing and amusing to observe the early civilization of a primitive
race of human beings taking shape, in one case, in the air and treetops and, in
another, midst the shallow waters of sheltered tropic basins, as well as on the
bottom, sides, and shores of these marine gardens of the dawn races of such
extraordinary spheres. Even on Urantia there was a long age during which
primitive man preserved himself and advanced his primitive civilization by
living for the most part in the treetops as did his earlier arboreal ancestors.
And on Urantia you still have a group of diminutive mammals (the bat family)
that are air navigators, and your seals and whales, of marine habitat, are also
of the mammalian order.

In Satania, of the elemental types, seven per cent are water, ten per cent air,
seventy per cent land, and thirteen per cent combined land-and-air types. But
these modifications of early intelligent creatures are neither human fishes nor
human birds. They are of the human and prehuman types, neither superfishes nor
glorified birds but distinctly mortal.

3. The gravity types. By modification of creative design, intelligent beings
are so constructed that they can freely function on spheres both smaller and
larger than Urantia, thus being, in measure, accommodated to the gravity of
those planets which are not of ideal size and density.

The various planetary types of mortals vary in height, the average in Nebadon
being a trifle under seven feet. Some of the larger worlds are peopled with
beings who are only about two and one-half feet in height. Mortal stature
ranges from here on up through the average heights on the average-sized planets
to around ten feet on the smaller inhabited spheres. In Satania there is only
one race under four feet in height. Twenty per cent of the Satania inhabited
worlds are peopled with mortals of the modified gravity types occupying the
larger and the smaller planets.

4. The temperature types. It is possible to create living beings who can
withstand temperatures both much higher and much lower than the life range of
the Urantia races. There are five distinct orders of beings as they are
classified with reference to heat-regulating mechanisms. In this scale the
Urantia races are number three. Thirty per cent of Satania worlds are peopled
with races of modified temperature types. Twelve per cent belong to the higher
temperature ranges, eighteen per cent to the lower, as compared with Urantians,
who function in the mid-temperature group.

5. The electric types. The electric, magnetic, and electronic behavior of the
worlds varies greatly. There are ten designs of mortal life variously fashioned
to withstand the differential energy of the spheres. These ten varieties also
react in slightly different ways to the chemical rays of ordinary sunlight. But
these slight physical variations in no way affect the intellectual or the
spiritual life.

Of the electric groupings of mortal life, almost twenty-three per cent belong
to class number four, the Urantia type of existence. These types are
distributed as follows: number 1, one per cent; number 2, two per cent; number
3, five per cent; number 4, twenty-three per cent; number 5, twenty-seven per
cent;

                                top of page - 563

number 6, twenty-four per cent; number 7, eight per cent; number 8, five per
cent; number 9, three per cent; number 10, two per cent--in whole percentages.

6. The energizing types. Not all worlds are alike in the manner of taking in
energy. Not all inhabited worlds have an atmospheric ocean suited to
respiratory exchange of gases, such as is present on Urantia. During the
earlier and the later stages of many planets, beings of your present order
could not exist; and when the respiratory factors of a planet are very high or
very low, but when all other prerequisites to intelligent life are adequate,
the Life Carriers often establish on such worlds a modified form of mortal
existence, beings who are competent to effect their life-process exchanges
directly by means of light-energy and the firsthand power transmutations of the
Master Physical Controllers.

There are six differing types of animal and mortal nutrition: The subbreathers
employ the first type of nutrition, the marine dwellers the second, the
mid-breathers the third, as on Urantia. The superbreathers employ the fourth
type of energy intake, while the nonbreathers utilize the fifth order of
nutrition and energy. The sixth technique of energizing is limited to the
midway creatures.

7. The unnamed types. There are numerous additional physical variations in
planetary life, but all of these differences are wholly matters of anatomical
modification, physiologic differentiation, and electrochemical adjustment. Such
distinctions do not concern the intellectual or the spiritual life.

3. WORLDS OF THE NONBREATHERS

The majority of inhabited planets are peopled with the breathing type of
intelligent beings. But there are also orders of mortals who are able to live
on worlds with little or no air. Of the Orvonton inhabited worlds this type
amounts to less than seven per cent. In Nebadon this percentage is less than
three. In all Satania there are only nine such worlds.

There are so very few of the nonbreather type of inhabited worlds in Satania
because this more recently organized section of Norlatiadek still abounds in
meteoric space bodies; and worlds without a protective friction atmosphere are
subject to incessant bombardment by these wanderers. Even some of the comets
consist of meteor swarms, but as a rule they are disrupted smaller bodies of
matter.

Millions upon millions of meteorites enter the atmosphere of Urantia daily
coming in at the rate of almost two hundred miles a second. On the nonbreathing
worlds the advanced races must do much to protect themselves from meteor damage
by making electrical installations which operate to consume or shunt the
meteors. Great danger confronts them when they venture beyond these protected
zones. These worlds are also subject to disastrous electrical storms of a
nature unknown on Urantia. During such times of tremendous energy fluctuation
the inhabitants must take refuge in their special structures of protective
insulation.

Life on the worlds of the nonbreathers is radically different from what it is
on Urantia. The nonbreathers do not eat food or drink water as do the Urantia
races. The reactions of the nervous system, the heat-regulating mechanism, and
the metabolism of these specialized peoples are radically different from such

                                top of page - 564

functions of Urantia mortals. Almost every act of living, aside from
reproduction, differs, and even the methods of procreation are somewhat
different.

On the nonbreathing worlds the animal species are radically unlike those found
on the atmospheric planets. The nonbreathing plan of life varies from the
technique of existence on an atmospheric world; even in survival their peoples
differ, being candidates for Spirit fusion. Nevertheless, these beings enjoy
life and carry forward the activities of the realm with the same relative
trials and joys that are experienced by the mortals living on atmospheric
worlds. In mind and character the nonbreathers do not differ from other mortal
types.

You would be more than interested in the planetary conduct of this type of
mortal because such a race of beings inhabits a sphere in close proximity to
Urantia.

4. EVOLUTIONARY WILL CREATURES

There are great differences between the mortals of the different worlds, even
among those belonging to the same intellectual and physical types, but all
mortals of will dignity are erect animals, bipeds.

There are six basic evolutionary races: three primary--red, yellow, and blue;
and three secondary--orange, green, and indigo. Most inhabited worlds have all
of these races, but many of the three-brained planets harbor only the three
primary types. Some local systems also have only these three races.

The average special physical-sense endowment of human beings is twelve, though
the special senses of the three-brained mortals are extended slightly beyond
those of the one- and two-brained types; they can see and hear considerably
more than the Urantia races.

Young are usually born singly, multiple births being the exception, and the
family life is fairly uniform on all types of planets. Sex equality prevails on
all advanced worlds; male and female are equal in mind endowment and spiritual
status. We do not regard a planet as having emerged from barbarism so long as
one sex seeks to tyrannize over the other. This feature of creature experience
is always greatly improved after the arrival of a Material Son and Daughter.

Seasons and temperature variations occur on all sunlighted and sun-heated
planets. Agriculture is universal on all atmospheric worlds; tilling the soil
is the one pursuit that is common to the advancing races of all such planets.

Mortals all have the same general struggles with microscopic foes in their
early days, such as you now experience on Urantia, though perhaps not so
extensive. The length of life varies on the different planets from twenty-five
years on the primitive worlds to near five hundred on the more advanced and
older spheres.

Human beings are all gregarious, both tribal and racial. These group
segregations are inherent in their origin and constitution. Such tendencies can
be modified only by advancing civilization and by gradual spiritualization. The
social, economic, and governmental problems of the inhabited worlds vary in
accordance with the age of the planets and the degree to which they have been
influenced by the successive sojourns of the divine Sons.

Mind is the bestowal of the Infinite Spirit and functions quite the same in
diverse environments. The mind of mortals is akin, regardless of certain
structural and chemical differences which characterize the physical natures of
the

                                top of page - 565

will creatures of the local systems. Regardless of personal or physical
planetary differences, the mental life of all these various orders of mortals
is very similar, and their immediate careers after death are very much alike.

But mortal mind without immortal spirit cannot survive. The mind of man is
mortal; only the bestowed spirit is immortal. Survival is dependent on
spiritualization by the ministry of the Adjuster--on the birth and evolution of
the immortal soul; at least, there must not have developed an antagonism
towards the Adjuster's mission of effecting the spiritual transformation of the
material mind.

5. THE PLANETARY SERIES OF MORTALS

It will be somewhat difficult to make an adequate portrayal of the planetary
series of mortals because you know so little about them, and because there are
so many variations. Mortal creatures may, however, be studied from numerous
viewpoints, among which are the following:

1. Adjustment to planetary environment.

2. Brain-type series.

3. Spirit-reception series.

4. Planetary-mortal epochs.

5. Creature-kinship serials.

6. Adjuster-fusion series.

7. Techniques of terrestrial escape.

The inhabited spheres of the seven superuniverses are peopled with mortals who
simultaneously classify in some one or more categories of each of these seven
generalized classes of evolutionary creature life. But even these general
classifications make no provision for such beings as midsoniters nor for
certain other forms of intelligent life. The inhabited worlds, as they have
been presented in these narratives, are peopled with evolutionary mortal
creatures, but there are other life forms.               etary environment.
There are three general groups of inhabited worlds from the standpoint of the
adjustment of creature life to the planetary environment: the normal adjustment
group, the radical adjustment group, and the experimental group.

Normal adjustments to planetary conditions follow the general physical patterns
previously considered. The worlds of the nonbreathers typify the radical or
extreme adjustment, but other types are also included in this group.
Experimental worlds are usually ideally adapted to the typical life forms, and
on these decimal planets the Life Carriers attempt to produce beneficial
variations in the standard life designs. Since your world is an experimental
planet, it differs markedly from its sister spheres in Satania; many forms of
life have appeared on Urantia that are not found elsewhere; likewise are many
common species absent from your planet.

In the universe of Nebadon, all the life-modification worlds are serially
linked together and constitute a special domain of universe affairs which is
given attention by designated administrators; and all of these experimental
worlds are periodically inspected by a corps of universe directors whose chief
is the veteran finaliter known in Satania as Tabamantia.

                                top of page - 566

2. Brain-type series. The one physical uniformity of mortals is the brain and
nervous system; nevertheless, there are three basic organizations of the brain
mechanism: the one-, the two-, and the three-brained types. Urantians are of
the two-brained type, somewhat more imaginative, adventurous, and philosophical
than the one-brained mortals but somewhat less spiritual, ethical, and
worshipful than the three-brained orders. These brain differences characterize
even the prehuman animal existences.

From the two-hemisphere type of the Urantian cerebral cortex you can, by
analogy, grasp something of the one-brained type. The third brain of the
three-brained orders is best conceived as an evolvement of your lower or
rudimentary form of brain, which is developed to the point where it functions
chiefly in control of physical activities, leaving the two superior brains free
for higher engagements: one for intellectual functions and the other for the
spiritual-counterparting activities of the Thought Adjuster.

While the terrestrial attainments of the one-brained races are slightly limited
in comparison with the two-brained orders, the older planets of the
three-brained group exhibit civilizations that would astound Urantians, and
which would somewhat shame yours by comparison. In mechanical development and
material civilization, even in intellectual progress, the two-brained mortal
worlds are able to equal the three-brained spheres. But in the higher control
of mind and development of intellectual and spiritual reciprocation, you are
somewhat inferior.

All such comparative estimates concerning the intellectual progress or the
spiritual attainments of any world or group of worlds should in fairness
recognize planetary age; much, very much, depends on age, the help of the
biologic uplifters, and the subsequent missions of the various orders of the
divine Sons.

While the three-brained peoples are capable of a slightly higher planetary
evolution than either the one- or two-brained orders, all have the same type of
life plasm and carry on planetary activities in very similar ways, much as do
human beings on Urantia. These three types of mortals are distributed
throughout the worlds of the local systems. In the majority of cases planetary
conditions had very little to do with the decisions of the Life Carriers to
project these varied orders of mortals on the different worlds; it is a
prerogative of the Life Carriers thus to plan and execute.

These three orders stand on an equal footing in the ascension career. Each must
traverse the same intellectual scale of development, and each must master the
same spiritual tests of progression. The system administration and the
constellation overcontrol of these different worlds are uniformly free from
discrimination; even the regimes of the Planetary Princes are identical.

3. Spirit-reception series. There are three groups of mind design as related to
contact with spirit affairs. This classification does not refer to the one-,
two-, and three-brained orders of mortals; it refers primarily to gland
chemistry, more particularly to the organization of certain glands comparable
to the pituitary bodies. The races on some worlds have one gland, on others
two, as do Urantians, while on still other spheres the races have three of
these unique bodies. The inherent imagination and spiritual receptivity is
definitely influenced by this differential chemical endowment.

Of the spirit-reception types, sixty-five per cent are of the second group,
like the Urantia races. Twelve per cent are of the first type, naturally less
receptive,

                                top of page - 567

while twenty-three per cent are more spiritually inclined during terrestrial
life. But such distinctions do not survive natural death; all of these racial
differences pertain only to the life in the flesh.

4. Planetary-mortal epochs. This classification recognizes the succession of
temporal dispensations as they affect man's terrestrial status and his
reception of celestial ministry.

Life is initiated on the planets by the Life Carriers, who watch over its
development until sometime after the evolutionary appearance of mortal man.
Before the Life Carriers leave a planet, they duly install a Planetary Prince
as ruler of the realm. With this ruler there arrives a full quota of
subordinate auxiliaries and ministering helpers, and the first adjudication of
the living and the dead is simultaneous with his arrival.

With the emergence of human groupings, this Planetary Prince arrives to
inaugurate human civilization and to focalize human society. Your world of
confusion is no criterion of the early days of the reign of the Planetary
Princes, for it was near the beginning of such an administration on Urantia
that your Planetary Prince, Caligastia, cast his lot with the rebellion of the
System Sovereign, Lucifer. Your planet has pursued a stormy course ever since.

On a normal evolutionary world, racial progress attains its natural biologic
peak during the regime of the Planetary Prince, and shortly thereafter the
System Sovereign dispatches a Material Son and Daughter to that planet. These
imported beings are of service as biologic uplifters; their default on Urantia
further complicated your planetary history.

When the intellectual and ethical progress of a human race has reached the
limits of evolutionary development, there comes an Avonal Son of Paradise on a
magisterial mission; and later on, when the spiritual status of such a world is
nearing its limit of natural attainment, the planet is visited by a Paradise
bestowal Son. The chief mission of a bestowal Son is to establish the planetary
status, release the Spirit of Truth for planetary function, and thus effect the
universal coming of the Thought Adjusters.

Here, again, Urantia deviates: There has never been a magisterial mission on
your world, neither was your bestowal Son of the Avonal order; your planet
enjoyed the signal honor of becoming the mortal home planet of the Sovereign
Son, Michael of Nebadon.

As a result of the ministry of all the successive orders of divine sonship, the
inhabited worlds and their advancing races begin to approach the apex of
planetary evolution. Such worlds now become ripe for the culminating mission,
the arrival of the Trinity Teacher Sons. This epoch of the Teacher Sons is the
vestibule to the final planetary age--evolutionary utopia--the age of light and
life.

This classification of human beings will receive particular attention in a
succeeding paper.

5. Creature-kinship serials. Planets are not only organized vertically into
systems, constellations, and so on, but the universe administration also
provides for horizontal groupings according to type, series, and other
relationships. This lateral administration of the universe pertains more
particularly to the co-ordination of activities of a kindred nature which have
been independently fostered on different spheres. These related classes of
universe creatures are

                                top of page - 568

periodically inspected by certain composite corps of high personalities
presided over by long-experienced finaliters.

These kinship factors are manifest on all levels, for kinship serials exist
among nonhuman personalities as well as among mortal creatures--even between
human and superhuman orders. Intelligent beings are vertically related in
twelve great groups of seven major divisions each. The co-ordination of these
uniquely related groups of living beings is probably effected by some not fully
comprehended technique of the Supreme Being.

6. Adjuster-fusion series. The spiritual classification or grouping of all
mortals during their prefusion experience is wholly determined by the relation
of the personality status to the indwelling Mystery Monitor. Almost ninety per
cent of the inhabited worlds of Nebadon are peopled with Adjuster-fusion
mortals in contrast with a near-by universe where scarcely more than one half
of the worlds harbor beings who are Adjuster-indwelt candidates for eternal
fusion.

7. Techniques of terrestrial escape. There is fundamentally only one way in
which individual human life can be initiated on the inhabited worlds, and that
is through creature procreation and natural birth; but there are numerous
techniques whereby man escapes his terrestrial status and gains access to the
inward moving stream of Paradise ascenders.

6. TERRESTRIAL ESCAPE

All of the differing physical types and planetary series of mortals alike enjoy
the ministry of Thought Adjusters, guardian angels, and the various orders of
the messenger hosts of the Infinite Spirit. All alike are liberated from the
bonds of flesh by the emancipation of natural death, and all alike go thence to
the morontia worlds of spiritual evolution and mind progress.

From time to time, on motion of the planetary authorities or the system rulers,
special resurrections of the sleeping survivors are conducted. Such
resurrections occur at least every millennium of planetary time, when not all
but "many of those who sleep in the dust awake." These special resurrections
are the occasion for mobilizing special groups of ascenders for specific
service in the local universe plan of mortal ascension. There are both
practical reasons and sentimental associations connected with these special
resurrections.

Throughout the earlier ages of an inhabited world, many are called to the
mansion spheres at the special and the millennial resurrections, but most
survivors are repersonalized at the inauguration of a new dispensation
associated with the advent of a divine Son of planetary service.

1. Mortals of the dispensational or group order of survival. With the arrival
of the first Adjuster on an inhabited world the guardian seraphim also make
their appearance; they are indispensable to terrestrial escape. Throughout the
life-lapse period of the sleeping survivors the spiritual values and eternal
realities of their newly evolved and immortal souls are held as a sacred trust
by the personal or by the group guardian seraphim.

The group guardians of assignment to the sleeping survivors always function
with the judgment Sons on their world advents. "He shall send his angels,

                                top of page - 569

and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds." With each
seraphim of assignment to the repersonalization of a sleeping mortal there
functions the returned Adjuster, the same immortal Father fragment that lived
in him during the days in the flesh, and thus is identity restored and
personality resurrected. During the sleep of their subjects these waiting
Adjusters serve on Divinington; they never indwell another mortal mind in this
interim.

While the older worlds of mortal existence harbor those highly developed and
exquisitely spiritual types of human beings who are virtually exempt from the
morontia life, the earlier ages of the animal-origin races are characterized by
primitive mortals who are so immature that fusion with their Adjusters is
impossible. The reawakening of these mortals is accomplished by the guardian
seraphim in conjunction with an individualized portion of the immortal spirit
of the Third Source and Center.

Thus are the sleeping survivors of a planetary age repersonalized in the
dispensational roll calls. But with regard to the nonsalvable personalities of
a realm, no immortal spirit is present to function with the group guardians of
destiny, and this constitutes cessation of creature existence. While some of
your records have pictured these events as taking place on the planets of
mortal death, they all really occur on the mansion worlds.

2. Mortals of the individual orders of ascension. The individual progress of
human beings is measured by their successive attainment and traversal (mastery)
of the seven cosmic circles. These circles of mortal progression are levels of
associated intellectual, social, spiritual, and cosmic-insight values. Starting
out in the seventh circle, mortals strive for the first, and all who have
attained the third immediately have personal guardians of destiny assigned to
them. These mortals may be repersonalized in the morontia life independent of
dispensational or other adjudications.

Throughout the earlier ages of an evolutionary world, few mortals go to
judgment on the third day. But as the ages pass, more and more the personal
guardians of destiny are assigned to the advancing mortals, and thus increasing
numbers of these evolving creatures are repersonalized on the first mansion
world on the third day after natural death. On such occasions the return of the
Adjuster signalizes the awakening of the human soul, and this is the
repersonalization of the dead just as literally as when the en masse roll is
called at the end of a dispensation on the evolutionary worlds.

There are three groups of individual ascenders: The less advanced land on the
initial or first mansion world. The more advanced group may take up the
morontia career on any of the intermediate mansion worlds in accordance with
previous planetary progression. The most advanced of these orders really begin
their morontia experience on the seventh mansion world.

3. Mortals of the probationary-dependent orders of ascension. The arrival of an
Adjuster constitutes identity in the eyes of the universe, and all indwelt
beings are on the roll calls of justice. But temporal life on the evolutionary
worlds is uncertain, and many die in youth before choosing the Paradise career.
Such Adjuster-indwelt children and youths follow the parent of most advanced
spiritual status, thus going to the system finaliter world (the probationary
nursery) on the third day, at a special resurrection, or at the regular
millennial and dispensational roll calls.

                                top of page - 570

Children who die when too young to have Thought Adjusters are repersonalized on
the finaliter world of the local systems concomitant with the arrival of either
parent on the mansion worlds. A child acquires physical entity at mortal birth,
but in the matter of survival all Adjusterless children are reckoned as still
attached to their parents.

In due course Thought Adjusters come to indwell these little ones, while the
seraphic ministry to both groups of the probationary-dependent orders of
survival is in general similar to that of the more advanced parent or is
equivalent to that of the parent in case only one survives. Those attaining the
third circle, regardless of the status of their parents, are accorded personal
guardians.

Similar probation nurseries are maintained on the finaliter spheres of the
constellation and the universe headquarters for the Adjusterless children of
the primary and secondary modified orders of ascenders.

4. Mortals of the secondary modified orders of ascension. These are the
progressive human beings of the intermediate evolutionary worlds. As a rule
they are not immune to natural death, but they are exempt from passing through
the seven mansion worlds.

The less perfected group reawaken on the headquarters of their local system,
passing by only the mansion worlds. The intermediate group go to the
constellation training worlds; they pass by the entire morontia regime of the
local system. Still farther on in the planetary ages of spiritual striving,
many survivors awaken on the constellation headquarters and there begin the
Paradise ascent.

But before any of these groups may go forward, they must journey back as
instructors to the worlds they missed, gaining many experiences as teachers in
those realms which they passed by as students. They all subsequently proceed to
Paradise by the ordained routes of mortal progression.

5. Mortals of the primary modified order of ascension. These mortals belong to
the Adjuster-fused type of evolutionary life, but they are most often
representative of the final phases of human development on an evolving world.
These glorified beings are exempt from passing through the portals of death;
they are submitted to Son seizure; they are translated from among the living
and appear immediately in the presence of the Sovereign Son on the headquarters
of the local universe.

These are the mortals who fuse with their Adjusters during mortal life, and
such Adjuster-fused personalities traverse space freely before being clothed
with morontia forms. These fused souls go by direct Adjuster transit to the
resurrection halls of the higher morontia spheres, where they receive their
initial morontia investiture just as do all other mortals arriving from the
evolutionary worlds.

This primary modified order of mortal ascension may apply to individuals in any
of the planetary series from the lowest to the highest stages of the
Adjuster-fusion worlds, but it more frequently functions on the older of these
spheres after they have received the benefits of numerous sojourns of the
divine Sons.

With the establishment of the planetary era of light and life, many go to the
universe morontia worlds by the primary modified order of translation. Further
along in the advanced stages of settled existence, when the majority

                                top of page - 571

of the mortals leaving a realm are embraced in this class, the planet is
regarded as belonging to this series. Natural death becomes decreasingly
frequent on these spheres long settled in light and life.

[Presented by a Melchizedek of the Jerusem School of Planetary Administration.]

                                top of page - 572

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   The Morontia   ³   The Planetary   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Li...       ³       P...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
