           Urantia Book Paper 54 Problems Of The Lucifer Rebellion
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  Paper 54 Problems Of The Lucifer Rebellion

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

EVOLUTIONARY man finds it difficult fully to comprehend the significance and to
grasp the meanings of evil, error, sin, and iniquity. Man is slow to perceive
that contrastive perfection and imperfection produce potential evil; that
conflicting truth and falsehood create confusing error; that the divine
endowment of freewill choice eventuates in the divergent realms of sin and
righteousness; that the persistent pursuit of divinity leads to the kingdom of
God as contrasted with its continuous rejection, which leads to the domains of
iniquity.

The Gods neither create evil nor permit sin and rebellion. Potential evil is
time-existent in a universe embracing differential levels of perfection
meanings and values. Sin is potential in all realms where imperfect beings are
endowed with the ability to choose between good and evil. The very conflicting
presence of truth and untruth, fact and falsehood, constitutes the potentiality
of error. The deliberate choice of evil constitutes sin; the willful rejection
of truth is error; the persistent pursuit of sin and error is iniquity.

1. TRUE AND FALSE LIBERTY

Of all the perplexing problems growing out of the Lucifer rebellion, none has
occasioned more difficulty than the failure of immature evolutionary mortals to
distinguish between true and false liberty.

True liberty is the quest of the ages and the reward of evolutionary progress.
False liberty is the subtle deception of the error of time and the evil of
space. Enduring liberty is predicated on the reality of justice--intelligence,
maturity, fraternity, and equity.

Liberty is a self-destroying technique of cosmic existence when its motivation
is unintelligent, unconditioned, and uncontrolled. True liberty is
progressively related to reality and is ever regardful of social equity, cosmic
fairness, universe fraternity, and divine obligations.

Liberty is suicidal when divorced from material justice, intellectual fairness,
social forbearance, moral duty, and spiritual values. Liberty is nonexistent
apart from cosmic reality, and all personality reality is proportional to its
divinity relationships.

Unbridled self-will and unregulated self-expression equal unmitigated
selfishness, the acme of ungodliness. Liberty without the associated and
ever-increasing conquest of self is a figment of egoistic mortal imagination.
Self-motivated liberty is a conceptual illusion, a cruel deception. License
masquerading in the garments of liberty is the forerunner of abject bondage.

                                top of page - 614

True liberty is the associate of genuine self-respect; false liberty is the
consort of self-admiration. True liberty is the fruit of self-control; false
liberty, the assumption of self-assertion. Self-control leads to altruistic
service; self-admiration tends towards the exploitation of others for the
selfish aggrandizement of such a mistaken individual as is willing to sacrifice
righteous attainment for the sake of possessing unjust power over his fellow
beings.

Even wisdom is divine and safe only when it is cosmic in scope and spiritual in
motivation.

There is no error greater than that species of self-deception which leads
intelligent beings to crave the exercise of power over other beings for the
purpose of depriving these persons of their natural liberties. The golden rule
of human fairness cries out against all such fraud, unfairness, selfishness,
and unrighteousness. Only true and genuine liberty is compatible with the reign
of love and the ministry of mercy.

How dare the self-willed creature encroach upon the rights of his fellows in
the name of personal liberty when the Supreme Rulers of the universe stand back
in merciful respect for these prerogatives of will and potentials of
personality! No being, in the exercise of his supposed personal liberty, has a
right to deprive any other being of those privileges of existence conferred by
the Creators and duly respected by all their loyal associates, subordinates,
and subjects.

Evolutionary man may have to contend for his material liberties with tyrants
and oppressors on a world of sin and iniquity or during the early times of a
primitive evolving sphere, but not so on the morontia worlds or on the spirit
spheres. War is the heritage of early evolutionary man, but on worlds of normal
advancing civilization physical combat as a technique of adjusting racial
misunderstandings has long since fallen into disrepute.

2. THE THEFT OF LIBERTY

With the Son and in the Spirit did God project eternal Havona, and ever since
has there obtained the eternal pattern of co-ordinate participation in
creation--sharing. This pattern of sharing is the master design for every one
of the Sons and Daughters of God who go out into space to engage in the attempt
to duplicate in time the central universe of eternal perfection.

Every creature of every evolving universe who aspires to do the Father's will
is destined to become the partner of the time-space Creators in this
magnificent adventure of experiential perfection attainment. Were this not
true, the Father would have hardly endowed such creatures with creative free
will, neither would he indwell them, actually go into partnership with them by
means of his own spirit.

Lucifer's folly was the attempt to do the nondoable, to short-circuit time in
an experiential universe. Lucifer's crime was the attempted creative
disenfranchisement of every personality in Satania, the unrecognized abridgment
of the creature's personal participation--freewill participation--in the long
evolutionary struggle to attain the status of light and life both individually
and collectively. In so doing this onetime Sovereign of your system set the
temporal purpose of his own will directly athwart the eternal purpose of God's
will as it

                                top of page - 615

is revealed in the bestowal of free will upon all personal creatures. The
Lucifer rebellion thus threatened the maximum possible infringement of the
freewill choice of the ascenders and servers of the system of Satania--a threat
forevermore to deprive every one of these beings of the thrilling experience of
contributing something personal and unique to the slowly erecting monument to
experiential wisdom which will sometime exist as the perfected system of
Satania. Thus does the Lucifer manifesto, masquerading in the habiliments of
liberty, stand forth in the clear light of reason as a monumental threat to
consummate the theft of personal liberty and to do it on a scale that has been
approached only twice in all the history of Nebadon.

In short, what God had given men and angels Lucifer would have taken away from
them, that is, the divine privilege of participating in the creation of their
own destinies and of the destiny of this local system of inhabited worlds.

No being in all the universe has the rightful liberty to deprive any other
being of true liberty, the right to love and be loved, the privilege of
worshiping God and of serving his fellows.

3. THE TIME LAG OF JUSTICE

The moral will creatures of the evolutionary worlds are always bothered with
the unthinking question as to why the all-wise Creators permit evil and sin.
They fail to comprehend that both are inevitable if the creature is to be truly
free. The free will of evolving man or exquisite angel is not a mere
philosophic concept, a symbolic ideal. Man's ability to choose good or evil is
a universe reality. This liberty to choose for oneself is an endowment of the
Supreme Rulers, and they will not permit any being or group of beings to
deprive a single personality in the wide universe of this divinely bestowed
liberty--not even to satisfy such misguided and ignorant beings in the
enjoyment of this misnamed personal liberty.

Although conscious and wholehearted identification with evil (sin) is the
equivalent of nonexistence (annihilation), there must always intervene between
the time of such personal identification with sin and the execution of the
penalty--the automatic result of such a willful embrace of evil--a period of
time of sufficient length to allow for such an adjudication of such an
individual's universe status as will prove entirely satisfactory to all related
universe personalities, and which will be so fair and just as to win the
approval of the sinner himself.

But if this universe rebel against the reality of truth and goodness refuses to
approve the verdict, and if the guilty one knows in his heart the justice of
his condemnation but refuses to make such confession, then must the execution
of sentence be delayed in accordance with the discretion of the Ancients of
Days. And the Ancients of Days refuse to annihilate any being until all moral
values and all spiritual realities are extinct, both in the evildoer and in all
related supporters and possible sympathizers.

4. THE MERCY TIME LAG

Another problem somewhat difficult of explanation in the constellation of
Norlatiadek pertains to the reasons for permitting Lucifer, Satan, and the
fallen

                                top of page - 616

princes to work mischief so long before being apprehended, interned, and
adjudicated.

Parents, those who have borne and reared children, are better able to
understand why Michael, a Creator-father, might be slow to condemn and destroy
his own Sons. Jesus' story of the prodigal son well illustrates how a loving
father can long wait for the repentance of an erring child.

The very fact that an evil-doing creature can actually choose to do
wrong--commit sin--establishes the fact of free-willness and fully justifies
any length delay in the execution of justice provided the extended mercy might
conduce to repentance and rehabilitation.

Most of the liberties which Lucifer sought he already had; others he was to
receive in the future. All these precious endowments were lost by giving way to
impatience and yielding to a desire to possess what one craves now and to
possess it in defiance of all obligation to respect the rights and liberties of
all other beings composing the universe of universes. Ethical obligations are
innate, divine, and universal.

There are many reasons known to us why the Supreme Rulers did not immediately
destroy or intern the leaders of the Lucifer rebellion. There are no doubt
still other and possibly better reasons unknown to us. The mercy features of
this delay in the execution of justice were extended personally by Michael of
Nebadon. Except for the affection of this Creator-father for his erring Sons,
the supreme justice of the superuniverse would have acted. If such an episode
as the Lucifer rebellion had occurred in Nebadon while Michael was incarnated
on Urantia, the instigators of such evil might have been instantly and
absolutely annihilated.

Supreme justice can act instantly when not restrained by divine mercy. But the
ministry of mercy to the children of time and space always provides for this
time lag, this saving interval between seedtime and harvest. If the seed sowing
is good, this interval provides for the testing and upbuilding of character; if
the seed sowing is evil, this merciful delay provides time for repentance and
rectification. This time delay in the adjudication and execution of evildoers
is inherent in the mercy ministry of the seven superuniverses. This restraint
of justice by mercy proves that God is love, and that such a God of love
dominates the universes and in mercy controls the fate and judgment of all his
creatures.

The mercy delays of time are by the mandate of the free will of the Creators.
There is good to be derived in the universe from this technique of patience in
dealing with sinful rebels. While it is all too true that good cannot come of
evil to the one who contemplates and performs evil, it is equally true that all
things (including evil, potential and manifest) work together for good to all
beings who know God, love to do his will, and are ascending Paradiseward
according to his eternal plan and divine purpose.

But these mercy delays are not interminable. Notwithstanding the long delay (as
time is reckoned on Urantia) in adjudicating the Lucifer rebellion, we may
record that, during the time of effecting this revelation, the first hearing in
the pending case of Gabriel vs. Lucifer was held on Uversa, and soon thereafter
there issued the mandate of the Ancients of Days directing that Satan be
henceforth confined to the prison world with Lucifer. This ends the ability of
Satan to pay further visits to any of the fallen worlds of Satania. Justice in
a mercy-dominated universe may be slow, but it is certain.

                                top of page - 617

5. THE WISDOM OF DELAY

Of the many reasons known to me as to why Lucifer and his confederates were not
sooner interned or adjudicated, I am permitted to recite the following:

1. Mercy requires that every wrongdoer have sufficient time in which to
formulate a deliberate and fully chosen attitude regarding his evil thoughts
and sinful acts.

2. Supreme justice is dominated by a Father's love; therefore will justice
never destroy that which mercy can save. Time to accept salvation is vouchsafed
every evildoer.

3. No affectionate father is ever precipitate in visiting punishment upon an
erring member of his family. Patience cannot function independently of time.

4. While wrongdoing is always deleterious to a family, wisdom and love admonish
the upright children to bear with an erring brother during the time granted by
the affectionate father in which the sinner may see the error of his way and
embrace salvation.

5. Regardless of Michael's attitude toward Lucifer, notwithstanding his being
Lucifer's Creator-father, it was not in the province of the Creator Son to
exercise summary jurisdiction over the apostate System Sovereign because he had
not then completed his bestowal career, thereby attaining unqualified
sovereignty of Nebadon.

6. The Ancients of Days could have immediately annihilated these rebels, but
they seldom execute wrongdoers without a full hearing. In this instance they
refused to overrule the Michael decisions.

7. It is evident that Immanuel counseled Michael to remain aloof from the
rebels and allow rebellion to pursue a natural course of self-obliteration. And
the wisdom of the Union of Days is the time reflection of the united wisdom of
the Paradise Trinity.

8. The Faithful of Days on Edentia advised the Constellation Fathers to allow
the rebels free course to the end that all sympathy for these evildoers should
be the sooner uprooted in the hearts of every present and future citizen of
Norlatiadek--every mortal, morontia, or spirit creature.

9. On Jerusem the personal representative of the Supreme Executive of Orvonton
counseled Gabriel to foster full opportunity for every living creature to
mature a deliberate choice in those matters involved in the Lucifer Declaration
of Liberty. The issues of rebellion having been raised, the Paradise emergency
adviser of Gabriel portrayed that, if such full and free opportunity were not
given all Norlatiadek creatures, then would the Paradise quarantine against all
such possible halfhearted or doubt-stricken creatures be extended in
self-protection against the entire constellation. To keep open the Paradise
doors of ascension to the beings of Norlatiadek, it was necessary to provide
for the full development of rebellion and to insure the complete determination
of attitude on the part of all beings in any way concerned therewith.

10. The Divine Minister of Salvington issued as her third independent
proclamation a mandate directing that nothing be done to half cure, cowardly
suppress, or otherwise hide the hideous visage of rebels and rebellion. The

                                top of page - 618

angelic hosts were directed to work for full disclosure and unlimited
opportunity for sin-expression as the quickest technique of achieving the
perfect and final cure of the plague of evil and sin.

11. An emergency council of ex-mortals consisting of Mighty Messengers,
glorified mortals who had had personal experience with like situations,
together with their colleagues, was organized on Jerusem. They advised Gabriel
that at least three times the number of beings would be led astray if arbitrary
or summary methods of suppression were attempted. The entire Uversa corps of
counselors concurred in advising Gabriel to permit the rebellion to take its
full and natural course, even if it should require a million years to wind up
the consequences.

12. Time, even in a universe of time, is relative: If a Urantia mortal of
average length of life should commit a crime which precipitated world-wide
pandemonium, and if he were apprehended, tried, and executed within two or
three days of the commission of the crime, would it seem a long time to you?
And yet that would be nearer a comparison with the length of Lucifer's life
even if his adjudication, now begun, should not be completed for a hundred
thousand Urantia years. The relative lapse of time from the viewpoint of
Uversa, where the litigation is pending, could be indicated by saying that the
crime of Lucifer was being brought to trial within two and a half seconds of
its commission. From the Paradise viewpoint the adjudication is simultaneous
with the enactment.

There are an equal number of reasons for not arbitrarily stopping the Lucifer
rebellion which would be partially comprehensible to you, but which I am not
permitted to narrate. I may inform you that on Uversa we teach forty-eight
reasons for permitting evil to run the full course of its own moral bankruptcy
and spiritual extinction. I doubt not that there are just as many additional
reasons not known to me.

6. THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE

Whatever the difficulties evolutionary mortals may encounter in their efforts
to understand the Lucifer rebellion, it should be clear to all reflective
thinkers that the technique of dealing with the rebels is a vindication of
divine love. The loving mercy extended to the rebels does seem to have involved
many innocent beings in trials and tribulations, but all these distraught
personalities may securely depend upon the all-wise Judges to adjudicate their
destinies in mercy as well as justice.

In all their dealings with intelligent beings, both the Creator Son and his
Paradise Father are love dominated. It is impossible to comprehend many phases
of the attitude of the universe rulers toward rebels and rebellion--sin and
sinners--unless it be remembered that God as a Father takes precedence over all
other phases of Deity manifestation in all the dealings of divinity with
humanity. It should also be recalled that the Paradise Creator Sons are all
mercy motivated.

If an affectionate father of a large family chooses to show mercy to one of his
children guilty of grievous wrongdoing, it may well be that the extension of
mercy to this misbehaving child will work a temporary hardship upon all the

                                top of page - 619

other and well-behaved children. Such eventualities are inevitable; such a risk
is inseparable from the reality situation of having a loving parent and of
being a member of a family group. Each member of a family profits by the
righteous conduct of every other member; likewise must each member suffer the
immediate time-consequences of the misconduct of every other member. Families,
groups, nations, races, worlds, systems, constellations, and universes are
relationships of association which possess individuality; and therefore does
every member of any such group, large or small, reap the benefits and suffer
the consequences of the rightdoing and the wrongdoing of all other members of
the group concerned.

But one thing should be made clear: If you are made to suffer the evil
consequences of the sin of some member of your family, some fellow citizen or
fellow mortal, even rebellion in the system or elsewhere--no matter what you
may have to endure because of the wrongdoing of your associates, fellows, or
superiors--you may rest secure in the eternal assurance that such tribulations
are transient afflictions. None of these fraternal consequences of misbehavior
in the group can ever jeopardize your eternal prospects or in the least degree
deprive you of your divine right of Paradise ascension and God attainment.

And there is compensation for these trials, delays, and disappointments which
invariably accompany the sin of rebellion. Of the many valuable repercussions
of the Lucifer rebellion which might be named, I will only call attention to
the enhanced careers of those mortal ascenders, the Jerusem citizens, who, by
withstanding the sophistries of sin, placed themselves in line for becoming
future Mighty Messengers, fellows of my own order. Every being who stood the
test of that evil episode thereby immediately advanced his administrative
status and enhanced his spiritual worth.

At first the Lucifer upheaval appeared to be an unmitigated calamity to the
system and to the universe. Gradually benefits began to accrue. With the
passing of twenty-five thousand years of system time (twenty thousand years of
Urantia time), the Melchizedeks began to teach that the good resulting from
Lucifer's folly had come to equal the evil incurred. The sum of evil had by
that time become almost stationary, continuing to increase only on certain
isolated worlds, while the beneficial repercussions continued to multiply and
extend out through the universe and superuniverse, even to Havona. The
Melchizedeks now teach that the good resulting from the Satania rebellion is
more than a thousand times the sum of all the evil.

But such an extraordinary and beneficent harvest of wrongdoing could only be
brought about by the wise, divine, and merciful attitude of all of Lucifer's
superiors, extending from the Constellation Fathers on Edentia to the Universal
Father on Paradise. The passing of time has enhanced the consequential good to
be derived from the Lucifer folly; and since the evil to be penalized was quite
fully developed within a comparatively short time, it is apparent that the
all-wise and farseeing universe rulers would be certain to extend the time in
which to reap increasingly beneficial results. Regardless of the many
additional reasons for delaying the apprehension and adjudication of the
Satania rebels, this one gain would have been enough to explain why these
sinners were not sooner interned, and why they have not been adjudicated and
destroyed.

Shortsighted and time-bound mortal minds should be slow to criticize the time
delays of the farseeing and all-wise administrators of universe affairs.

                                top of page - 620

One error of human thinking respecting these problems consists in the idea that
all evolutionary mortals on an evolving planet would choose to enter upon the
Paradise career if sin had not cursed their world. The ability to decline
survival does not date from the times of the Lucifer rebellion. Mortal man has
always possessed the endowment of freewill choice regarding the Paradise
career.

As you ascend in the survival experience, you will broaden your universe
concepts and extend your horizon of meanings and values; and thus will you be
able the better to understand why such beings as Lucifer and Satan are
permitted to continue in rebellion. You will also better comprehend how
ultimate (if not immediate) good can be derived from time-limited evil. After
you attain Paradise, you will really be enlightened and comforted when you
listen to the superaphic philosophers discuss and explain these profound
problems of universe adjustment. But even then, I doubt that you will be fully
satisfied in your own minds. At least I was not even when I had thus attained
the acme of universe philosophy. I did not achieve a full comprehension of
these complexities until after I had been assigned to administrative duties in
the superuniverse, where by actual experience I have acquired conceptual
capacity adequate for the comprehension of such many-sided problems in cosmic
equity and spiritual philosophy. As you ascend Paradiseward, you will
increasingly learn that many problematic features of universe administration
can only be comprehended subsequent to the acquirement of increased
experiential capacity and to the achievement of enhanced spiritual insight.
Cosmic wisdom is essential to the understanding of cosmic situations.

[Presented by a Mighty Messenger of experiential survival in the first system
rebellion in the universes of time now attached to the superuniverse government
of Orvonton and acting in this matter by request of Gabriel of Salvington.]

                                top of page - 621

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART II: The Local Universe :
The Evolution Of Local Universes Administration Of The Local Universe The Local
    Universe Mother Spirit The Local Universe Sons Of God The Life Carriers
  Personalities Of The Local Universe Ministering Spirits Of The Local Universe
   The Seraphic Hosts The Ascending Sons Of God Physical Aspects Of The Local
 Universe Energy--mind And Matter The Constellations The Celestial Artisans The
  Local System Administration The Local System Headquarters The Seven Mansion
    Worlds The Morontia Life The Inhabited Worlds The Planetary Princes The
  Planetary Adams Planetary Mortal Epochs The Lucifer Rebellion Problems Of The
        Lucifer Rebellion The Spheres Of Light And Life Universal Unity

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   The Lucifer    ³  The Spheres Of   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Reb...      ³        ...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
