            Urantia Book Paper 64 The Evolutionary Races Of Color
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                                      ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Paper 64 The Evolutionary Races Of Color

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THIS is the story of the evolutionary races of Urantia from the days of Andon
and Fonta, almost one million years ago, down through the times of the
Planetary Prince to the end of the ice age.

The human race is almost one million years old, and the first half of its story
roughly corresponds to the pre-Planetary Prince days of Urantia. The latter
half of the history of mankind begins at the time of the arrival of the
Planetary Prince and the appearance of the six colored races and roughly
corresponds to the period commonly regarded as the Old Stone Age.

1. THE ANDONIC ABORIGINES

Primitive man made his evolutionary appearance on earth a little less than one
million years ago, and he had a vigorous experience. He instinctively sought to
escape the danger of mingling with the inferior simian tribes. But he could not
migrate eastward because of the arid Tibetan land elevations, 30,000 feet above
sea level; neither could he go south nor west because of the expanded
Mediterranean Sea, which then extended eastward to the Indian Ocean; and as he
went north, he encountered the advancing ice. But even when further migration
was blocked by the ice, and though the dispersing tribes became increasingly
hostile, the more intelligent groups never entertained the idea of going
southward to live among their hairy tree-dwelling cousins of inferior
intellect.

Many of man's earliest religious emotions grew out of his feeling of
helplessness in the shut-in environment of this geographic situation--mountains
to the right, water to the left, and ice in front. But these progressive
Andonites would not turn back to their inferior tree-dwelling relatives in the
south.

These Andonites avoided the forests in contrast with the habits of their
nonhuman relatives. In the forests man has always deteriorated; human evolution
has made progress only in the open and in the higher latitudes. The cold and
hunger of the open lands stimulate action, invention, and resourcefulness.
While these Andonic tribes were developing the pioneers of the present human
race amidst the hardships and privations of these rugged northern climes, their
backward cousins were luxuriating in the southern tropical forests of the land
of their early common origin.

These events occurred during the times of the third glacier, the first
according to the reckoning of geologists. The first two glaciers were not
extensive in northern Europe.

During most of the ice age England was connected by land with France, while
later on Africa was joined to Europe by the Sicilian land bridge. At the

                                top of page - 719

time of the Andonic migrations there was a continuous land path from England in
the west on through Europe and Asia to Java in the east; but Australia was
again isolated, which further accentuated the development of its own peculiar
fauna.

950,000 years ago the descendants of Andon and Fonta had migrated far to the
east and to the west. To the west they passed over Europe to France and
England. In later times they penetrated eastward as far as Java, where their
bones were so recently found--the so-called Java man--and then journeyed on to
Tasmania.

The groups going west became less contaminated with the backward stocks of
mutual ancestral origin than those going east, who mingled so freely with their
retarded animal cousins. These unprogressive individuals drifted southward and
presently mated with the inferior tribes. Later on, increasing numbers of their
mongrel descendants returned to the north to mate with the rapidly expanding
Andonic peoples, and such unfortunate unions unfailingly deteriorated the
superior stock. Fewer and fewer of the primitive settlements maintained the
worship of the Breath Giver. This early dawn civilization was threatened with
extinction.

And thus it has ever been on Urantia. Civilizations of great promise have
successively deteriorated and have finally been extinguished by the folly of
allowing the superior freely to procreate with the inferior.

2. THE FOXHALL PEOPLES

900,000 years ago the arts of Andon and Fonta and the culture of Onagar were
vanishing from the face of the earth; culture, religion, and even flintworking
were at their lowest ebb.

These were the times when large numbers of inferior mongrel groups were
arriving in England from southern France. These tribes were so largely mixed
with the forest apelike creatures that they were scarcely human. They had no
religion but were crude flintworkers and possessed sufficient intelligence to
kindle fire.

They were followed in Europe by a somewhat superior and prolific people, whose
descendants soon spread over the entire continent from the ice in the north to
the Alps and Mediterranean in the south. These tribes are the so-called
Heidelberg race.

During this long period of cultural decadence the Foxhall peoples of England
and the Badonan tribes northwest of India continued to hold on to some of the
traditions of Andon and certain remnants of the culture of Onagar.

The Foxhall peoples were farthest west and succeeded in retaining much of the
Andonic culture; they also preserved their knowledge of flintworking, which
they transmitted to their descendants, the ancient ancestors of the Eskimos.

Though the remains of the Foxhall peoples were the last to be discovered in
England, these Andonites were really the first human beings to live in those
regions. At that time the land bridge still connected France with England; and
since most of the early settlements of the Andon descendants were located along
the rivers and seashores of that early day, they are now under the waters of
the English Channel and the North Sea, but some three or four are still above
water on the English coast.

                                top of page - 720

Many of the more intelligent and spiritual of the Foxhall peoples maintained
their racial superiority and perpetuated their primitive religious customs. And
these people, as they were later admixed with subsequent stocks, journeyed on
west from England after a later ice visitation and have survived as the
present-day Eskimos.

3. THE BADONAN TRIBES

Besides the Foxhall peoples in the west, another struggling center of culture
persisted in the east. This group was located in the foothills of the
northwestern Indian highlands among the tribes of Badonan, a
great-great-grandson of Andon. These people were the only descendants of Andon
who never practiced human sacrifice.

These highland Badonites occupied an extensive plateau surrounded by forests,
traversed by streams, and abounding in game. Like some of their cousins in
Tibet, they lived in crude stone huts, hillside grottoes, and semiunderground
passages.

While the tribes of the north grew more and more to fear the ice, those living
near the homeland of their origin became exceedingly fearful of the water. They
observed the Mesopotamian peninsula gradually sinking into the ocean, and
though it emerged several times, the traditions of these primitive races grew
up around the dangers of the sea and the fear of periodic engulfment. And this
fear, together with their experience with river floods, explains why they
sought out the highlands as a safe place in which to live.

To the east of the Badonan peoples, in the Siwalik Hills of northern India, may
be found fossils that approach nearer to transition types between man and the
various prehuman groups than any others on earth.

850,000 years ago the superior Badonan tribes began a warfare of extermination
directed against their inferior and animalistic neighbors. In less than one
thousand years most of the borderland animal groups of these regions had been
either destroyed or driven back to the southern forests. This campaign for the
extermination of inferiors brought about a slight improvement in the hill
tribes of that age. And the mixed descendants of this improved Badonite stock
appeared on the stage of action as an apparently new people--the Neanderthal
race.

4. THE NEANDERTHAL RACES

The Neanderthalers were excellent fighters, and they traveled extensively. They
gradually spread from the highland centers in northwest India to France on the
west, China on the east, and even down into northern Africa. They dominated the
world for almost half a million years until the times of the migration of the
evolutionary races of color.

800,000 years ago game was abundant; many species of deer, as well as elephants
and hippopotamuses, roamed over Europe. Cattle were plentiful; horses and
wolves were everywhere. The Neanderthalers were great hunters, and the tribes
in France were the first to adopt the practice of giving the most successful
hunters the choice of women for wives.

                                top of page - 721

The reindeer was highly useful to these Neanderthal peoples, serving as food,
clothing, and for tools, since they made various uses of the horns and bones.
They had little culture, but they greatly improved the work in flint until it
almost reached the levels of the days of Andon. Large flints attached to wooden
handles came back into use and served as axes and picks.

750,000 years ago the fourth ice sheet was well on its way south. With their
improved implements the Neanderthalers made holes in the ice covering the
northern rivers and thus were able to spear the fish which came up to these
vents. Ever these tribes retreated before the advancing ice, which at this time
made its most extensive invasion of Europe.

In these times the Siberian glacier was making its southernmost march,
compelling early man to move southward, back toward the lands of his origin.
But the human species had so differentiated that the danger of further mingling
with its nonprogressive simian relatives was greatly lessened.

700,000 years ago the fourth glacier, the greatest of all in Europe, was in
recession; men and animals were returning north. The climate was cool and
moist, and primitive man again thrived in Europe and western Asia. Gradually
the forests spread north over land which had been so recently covered by the
glacier.

Mammalian life had been little changed by the great glacier. These animals
persisted in that narrow belt of land lying between the ice and the Alps and,
upon the retreat of the glacier, again rapidly spread out over all Europe.
There arrived from Africa, over the Sicilian land bridge, straight-tusked
elephants, broad-nosed rhinoceroses, hyenas, and African lions, and these new
animals virtually exterminated the saber-toothed tigers and the hippopotamuses.

650,000 years ago witnessed the continuation of the mild climate. By the middle
of the interglacial period it had become so warm that the Alps were almost
denuded of ice and snow.

600,000 years ago the ice had reached its then northernmost point of retreat
and, after a pause of a few thousand years, started south again on its fifth
excursion. But there was little modification of climate for fifty thousand
years. Man and the animals of Europe were little changed. The slight aridity of
the former period lessened, and the alpine glaciers descended far down the
river valleys.

550,000 years ago the advancing glacier again pushed man and the animals south.
But this time man had plenty of room in the wide belt of land stretching
northeast into Asia and lying between the ice sheet and the then greatly
expanded Black Sea extension of the Mediterranean.

These times of the fourth and fifth glaciers witnessed the further spread of
the crude culture of the Neanderthal races. But there was so little progress
that it truly appeared as though the attempt to produce a new and modified type
of intelligent life on Urantia was about to fail. For almost a quarter of a
million years these primitive peoples drifted on, hunting and fighting, by
spells improving in certain directions, but, on the whole, steadily
retrogressing as compared with their superior Andonic ancestors.

During these spiritually dark ages the culture of superstitious mankind reached
its lowest levels. The Neanderthalers really had no religion beyond a

                                top of page - 722

shameful superstition. They were deathly afraid of clouds, more especially of
mists and fogs. A primitive religion of the fear of natural forces gradually
developed, while animal worship declined as improvement in tools, with
abundance of game, enabled these people to live with lessened anxiety about
food; the sex rewards of the chase tended greatly to improve hunting skill.
This new religion of fear led to attempts to placate the invisible forces
behind these natural elements and culminated, later on, in the sacrificing of
humans to appease these invisible and unknown physical forces. And this
terrible practice of human sacrifice has been perpetuated by the more backward
peoples of Urantia right on down to the twentieth century.

These early Neanderthalers could hardly be called sun worshipers. They rather
lived in fear of the dark; they had a mortal dread of nightfall. As long as the
moon shone a little, they managed to get along, but in the dark of the moon
they grew panicky and began the sacrifice of their best specimens of manhood
and womanhood in an effort to induce the moon again to shine. The sun, they
early learned, would regularly return, but the moon they conjectured only
returned because they sacrificed their fellow tribesmen. As the race advanced,
the object and purpose of sacrifice progressively changed, but the offering of
human sacrifice as a part of religious ceremonial long persisted.

5. ORIGIN OF THE COLORED RACES

500,000 years ago the Badonan tribes of the northwestern highlands of India
became involved in another great racial struggle. For more than one hundred
years this relentless warfare raged, and when the long fight was finished, only
about one hundred families were left. But these survivors were the most
intelligent and desirable of all the then living descendants of Andon and
Fonta.

And now, among these highland Badonites there was a new and strange occurrence.
A man and woman living in the northeastern part of the then inhabited highland
region began suddenly to produce a family of unusually intelligent children.
This was the Sangik family, the ancestors of all of the six colored races of
Urantia.

These Sangik children, nineteen in number, were not only intelligent above
their fellows, but their skins manifested a unique tendency to turn various
colors upon exposure to sunlight. Among these nineteen children were five red,
two orange, four yellow, two green, four blue, and two indigo. These colors
became more pronounced as the children grew older, and when these youths later
mated with their fellow tribesmen, all of their offspring tended toward the
skin color of the Sangik parent.

And now I interrupt the chronological narrative, after calling attention to the
arrival of the Planetary Prince at about this time, while we separately
consider the six Sangik races of Urantia.

6. THE SIX SANGIK RACES OF URANTIA

On an average evolutionary planet the six evolutionary races of color appear
one by one; the red man is the first to evolve, and for ages he roams the world
before the succeeding colored races make their appearance. The simultaneous
emergence of all six races on Urantia, and in one family, was most unusual.

                                top of page - 723

The appearance of the earlier Andonites on Urantia was also something new in
Satania. On no other world in the local system has such a race of will
creatures evolved in advance of the evolutionary races of color.

1. The red man. These peoples were remarkable specimens of the human race, in
many ways superior to Andon and Fonta. They were a most intelligent group and
were the first of the Sangik children to develop a tribal civilization and
government. They were always monogamous; even their mixed descendants seldom
practiced plural mating.

In later times they had serious and prolonged trouble with their yellow
brethren in Asia. They were aided by their early invention of the bow and
arrow, but they had unfortunately inherited much of the tendency of their
ancestors to fight among themselves, and this so weakened them that the yellow
tribes were able to drive them off the Asiatic continent.

About eighty-five thousand years ago the comparatively pure remnants of the red
race went en masse across to North America, and shortly thereafter the Bering
land isthmus sank, thus isolating them. No red man ever returned to Asia. But
throughout Siberia, China, central Asia, India, and Europe they left behind
much of their stock blended with the other colored races.

When the red man crossed over into America, he brought along much of the
teachings and traditions of his early origin. His immediate ancestors had been
in touch with the later activities of the world headquarters of the Planetary
Prince. But in a short time after reaching the Americas, the red men began to
lose sight of these teachings, and there occurred a great decline in
intellectual and spiritual culture. Very soon these people again fell to
fighting so fiercely among themselves that it appeared that these tribal wars
would result in the speedy extinction of this remnant of the comparatively pure
red race.

Because of this great retrogression the red men seemed doomed when, about
sixty-five thousand years ago, Onamonalonton appeared as their leader and
spiritual deliverer. He brought temporary peace among the American red men and
revived their worship of the "Great Spirit." Onamonalonton lived to be
ninety-six years of age and maintained his headquarters among the great redwood
trees of California. Many of his later descendants have come down to modern
times among the Blackfoot Indians.

As time passed, the teachings of Onamonalonton became hazy traditions.
Internecine wars were resumed, and never after the days of this great teacher
did another leader succeed in bringing universal peace among them. Increasingly
the more intelligent strains perished in these tribal struggles; otherwise a
great civilization would have been built upon the North American continent by
these able and intelligent red men.

After crossing over to America from China, the northern red man never again
came in contact with other world influences (except the Eskimo) until he was
later discovered by the white man. It was most unfortunate that the red man
almost completely missed his opportunity of being upstepped by the admixture of
the later Adamic stock. As it was, the red man could not rule the white man,
and he would not willingly serve him. In such a circumstance, if the two races
do not blend, one or the other is doomed.

2. The orange man. The outstanding characteristic of this race was their
peculiar urge to build, to build anything and everything, even to the piling up

                                top of page - 724

of vast mounds of stone just to see which tribe could build the largest mound.
Though they were not a progressive people, they profited much from the schools
of the Prince and sent delegates there for instruction.

The orange race was the first to follow the coast line southward toward Africa
as the Mediterranean Sea withdrew to the west. But they never secured a
favorable footing in Africa and were wiped out of existence by the later
arriving green race.

Before the end came, this people lost much cultural and spiritual ground. But
there was a great revival of higher living as a result of the wise leadership
of Porshunta, the master mind of this unfortunate race, who ministered to them
when their headquarters was at Armageddon some three hundred thousand years
ago.

The last great struggle between the orange and the green men occurred in the
region of the lower Nile valley in Egypt. This long-drawn-out battle was waged
for almost one hundred years, and at its close very few of the orange race were
left alive. The shattered remnants of these people were absorbed by the green
and by the later arriving indigo men. But as a race the orange man ceased to
exist about one hundred thousand years ago.

3. The yellow man. The primitive yellow tribes were the first to abandon the
chase, establish settled communities, and develop a home life based on
agriculture. Intellectually they were somewhat inferior to the red man, but
socially and collectively they proved themselves superior to all of the Sangik
peoples in the matter of fostering racial civilization. Because they developed
a fraternal spirit, the various tribes learning to live together in relative
peace, they were able to drive the red race before them as they gradually
expanded into Asia.

They traveled far from the influences of the spiritual headquarters of the
world and drifted into great darkness following the Caligastia apostasy; but
there occurred one brilliant age among this people when Singlangton, about one
hundred thousand years ago, assumed the leadership of these tribes and
proclaimed the worship of the "One Truth."

The survival of comparatively large numbers of the yellow race is due to their
intertribal peacefulness. From the days of Singlangton to the times of modern
China, the yellow race has been numbered among the more peaceful of the nations
of Urantia. This race received a small but potent legacy of the later imported
Adamic stock.

4. The green man. The green race was one of the less able groups of primitive
men, and they were greatly weakened by extensive migrations in different
directions. Before their dispersion these tribes experienced a great revival of
culture under the leadership of Fantad, some three hundred and fifty thousand
years ago.

The green race split into three major divisions: The northern tribes were
subdued, enslaved, and absorbed by the yellow and blue races. The eastern group
were amalgamated with the Indian peoples of those days, and remnants still
persist among them. The southern nation entered Africa, where they destroyed
their almost equally inferior orange cousins.

In many ways both groups were evenly matched in this struggle since each
carried strains of the giant order, many of their leaders being eight and nine

                                top of page - 725

feet in height. These giant strains of the green man were mostly confined to
this southern or Egyptian nation.

The remnants of the victorious green men were subsequently absorbed by the
indigo race, the last of the colored peoples to develop and emigrate from the
original Sangik center of race dispersion.

5. The blue man. The blue men were a great people. They early invented the
spear and subsequently worked out the rudiments of many of the arts of modern
civilization. The blue man had the brain power of the red man associated with
the soul and sentiment of the yellow man. The Adamic descendants preferred them
to all of the later persisting colored races.

The early blue men were responsive to the persuasions of the teachers of Prince
Caligastia's staff and were thrown into great confusion by the subsequent
perverted teachings of those traitorous leaders. Like other primitive races
they never fully recovered from the turmoil produced by the Caligastia
betrayal, nor did they ever completely overcome their tendency to fight among
themselves.

About five hundred years after Caligastia's downfall a widespread revival of
learning and religion of a primitive sort--but none the less real and
beneficial--occurred. Orlandof became a great teacher among the blue race and
led many of the tribes back to the worship of the true God under the name of
the "Supreme Chief." This was the greatest advance of the blue man until those
later times when this race was so greatly upstepped by the admixture of the
Adamic stock.

The European researches and explorations of the Old Stone Age have largely to
do with unearthing the tools, bones, and artcraft of these ancient blue men,
for they persisted in Europe until recent times. The so-called white races of
Urantia are the descendants of these blue men as they were first modified by
slight mixture with yellow and red, and as they were later greatly upstepped by
assimilating the greater portion of the violet race.

6. The indigo race. As the red men were the most advanced of all the Sangik
peoples, so the black men were the least progressive. They were the last to
migrate from their highland homes. They journeyed to Africa, taking possession
of the continent, and have ever since remained there except when they have been
forcibly taken away, from age to age, as slaves.

Isolated in Africa, the indigo peoples, like the red man, received little or
none of the race elevation which would have been derived from the infusion of
the Adamic stock. Alone in Africa, the indigo race made little advancement
until the days of Orvonon, when they experienced a great spiritual awakening.
While they later almost entirely forgot the "God of Gods" proclaimed by
Orvonon, they did not entirely lose the desire to worship the Unknown; at least
they maintained a form of worship up to a few thousand years ago.

Notwithstanding their backwardness, these indigo peoples have exactly the same
standing before the celestial powers as any other earthly race.

These were ages of intense struggles between the various races, but near the
headquarters of the Planetary Prince the more enlightened and more recently
taught groups lived together in comparative harmony, though no great cultural
conquest of the world races had been achieved up to the time of the serious
disruption of this regime by the outbreak of the Lucifer rebellion.

                                top of page - 726

From time to time all of these different peoples experienced cultural and
spiritual revivals. Mansant was a great teacher of the post-Planetary Prince
days. But mention is made only of those outstanding leaders and teachers who
markedly influenced and inspired a whole race. With the passing of time, many
lesser teachers arose in different regions; and in the aggregate they
contributed much to the sum total of those saving influences which prevented
the total collapse of cultural civilization, especially during the long and
dark ages between the Caligastia rebellion and the arrival of Adam.

There are many good and sufficient reasons for the plan of evolving either
three or six colored races on the worlds of space. Though Urantia mortals may
not be in a position fully to appreciate all of these reasons, we would call
attention to the following:

1. Variety is indispensable to opportunity for the wide functioning of natural
selection, differential survival of superior strains.

2. Stronger and better races are to be had from the interbreeding of diverse
peoples when these different races are carriers of superior inheritance
factors. And the Urantia races would have benefited by such an early
amalgamation provided such a conjoint people could have been subsequently
effectively upstepped by a thoroughgoing admixture with the superior Adamic
stock. The attempt to execute such an experiment on Urantia under present
racial conditions would be highly disastrous.

3. Competition is healthfully stimulated by diversification of races.

4. Differences in status of the races and of groups within each race are
essential to the development of human tolerance and altruism.

5. Homogeneity of the human race is not desirable until the peoples of an
evolving world attain comparatively high levels of spiritual development.

7. DISPERSION OF THE COLORED RACES

When the colored descendants of the Sangik family began to multiply, and as
they sought opportunity for expansion into adjacent territory, the fifth
glacier, the third of geologic count, was well advanced on its southern drift
over Europe and Asia. These early colored races were extraordinarily tested by
the rigors and hardships of the glacial age of their origin. This glacier was
so extensive in Asia that for thousands of years migration to eastern Asia was
cut off. And not until the later retreat of the Mediterranean Sea, consequent
upon the elevation of Arabia, was it possible for them to reach Africa.

Thus it was that for almost one hundred thousand years these Sangik peoples
spread out around the foothills and mingled together more or less,
notwithstanding the peculiar but natural antipathy which early manifested
itself between the different races.

Between the times of the Planetary Prince and Adam, India became the home of
the most cosmopolitan population ever to be found on the face of the earth. But
it was unfortunate that this mixture came to contain so much of the green,
orange, and indigo races. These secondary Sangik peoples found existence more
easy and agreeable in the southlands, and many of them subsequently migrated to
Africa. The primary Sangik peoples, the superior races,

                                top of page - 727

avoided the tropics, the red man going northeast to Asia, closely followed by
the yellow man, while the blue race moved northwest into Europe.

The red men early began to migrate to the northeast, on the heels of the
retreating ice, passing around the highlands of India and occupying all of
northeastern Asia. They were closely followed by the yellow tribes, who
subsequently drove them out of Asia into North America.

When the relatively pure-line remnants of the red race forsook Asia, there were
eleven tribes, and they numbered a little over seven thousand men, women, and
children. These tribes were accompanied by three small groups of mixed
ancestry, the largest of these being a combination of the orange and blue
races. These three groups never fully fraternized with the red man and early
journeyed southward to Mexico and Central America, where they were later joined
by a small group of mixed yellows and reds. These peoples all intermarried and
founded a new and amalgamated race, one which was much less warlike than the
pure-line red men. Within five thousand years this amalgamated race broke up
into three groups, establishing the civilizations respectively of Mexico,
Central America, and South America. The South American offshoot did receive a
faint touch of the blood of Adam.

To a certain extent the early red and yellow men mingled in Asia, and the
offspring of this union journeyed on to the east and along the southern
seacoast and, eventually, were driven by the rapidly increasing yellow race
onto the peninsulas and near-by islands of the sea. They are the present-day
brown men.

The yellow race has continued to occupy the central regions of eastern Asia. Of
all the six colored races they have survived in greatest numbers. While the
yellow men now and then engaged in racial war, they did not carry on such
incessant and relentless wars of extermination as were waged by the red, green,
and orange men. These three races virtually destroyed themselves before they
were finally all but annihilated by their enemies of other races.

Since the fifth glacier did not extend so far south in Europe, the way was
partially open for these Sangik peoples to migrate to the northwest; and upon
the retreat of the ice the blue men, together with a few other small racial
groups, migrated westward along the old trails of the Andon tribes. They
invaded Europe in successive waves, occupying most of the continent.

In Europe they soon encountered the Neanderthal descendants of their early and
common ancestor, Andon. These older European Neanderthalers had been driven
south and east by the glacier and thus were in position quickly to encounter
and absorb their invading cousins of the Sangik tribes.

In general and to start with, the Sangik tribes were more intelligent than, and
in most ways far superior to, the deteriorated descendants of the early Andonic
plainsmen; and the mingling of these Sangik tribes with the Neanderthal peoples
led to the immediate improvement of the older race. It was this infusion of
Sangik blood, more especially that of the blue man, which produced that marked
improvement in the Neanderthal peoples exhibited by the successive waves of
increasingly intelligent tribes that swept over Europe from the east.

During the following interglacial period this new Neanderthal race extended
from England to India. The remnant of the blue race left in the old Persian
peninsula later amalgamated with certain others, primarily the yellow; and the
resultant blend, subsequently somewhat upstepped by the violet race of Adam,
has persisted as the swarthy nomadic tribes of modern Arabs.

                                top of page - 728

All efforts to identify the Sangik ancestry of modern peoples must take into
account the later improvement of the racial strains by the subsequent admixture
of Adamic blood.

The superior races sought the northern or temperate climes, while the orange,
green, and indigo races successively gravitated to Africa over the newly
elevated land bridge which separated the westward retreating Mediterranean from
the Indian Ocean.

The last of the Sangik peoples to migrate from their center of race origin was
the indigo man. About the time the green man was killing off the orange race in
Egypt and greatly weakening himself in so doing, the great black exodus started
south through Palestine along the coast; and later, when these physically
strong indigo peoples overran Egypt, they wiped the green man out of existence
by sheer force of numbers. These indigo races absorbed the remnants of the
orange man and much of the stock of the green man, and certain of the indigo
tribes were considerably improved by this racial amalgamation.

And so it appears that Egypt was first dominated by the orange man, then by the
green, followed by the indigo (black) man, and still later by a mongrel race of
indigo, blue, and modified green men. But long before Adam arrived, the blue
men of Europe and the mixed races of Arabia had driven the indigo race out of
Egypt and far south on the African continent.

As the Sangik migrations draw to a close, the green and orange races are gone,
the red man holds North America, the yellow man eastern Asia, the blue man
Europe, and the indigo race has gravitated to Africa. India harbors a blend of
the secondary Sangik races, and the brown man, a blend of the red and yellow,
holds the islands off the Asiatic coast. An amalgamated race of rather superior
potential occupies the highlands of South America. The purer Andonites live in
the extreme northern regions of Europe and in Iceland, Greenland, and
northeastern North America.

During the periods of farthest glacial advance the westernmost of the Andon
tribes came very near being driven into the sea. They lived for years on a
narrow southern strip of the present island of England. And it was the
tradition of these repeated glacial advances that drove them to take to the sea
when the sixth and last glacier finally appeared. They were the first marine
adventurers. They built boats and started in search of new lands which they
hoped might be free from the terrifying ice invasions. And some of them reached
Iceland, others Greenland, but the vast majority perished from hunger and
thirst on the open sea.

A little more than eighty thousand years ago, shortly after the red man entered
northwestern North America, the freezing over of the north seas and the advance
of local ice fields on Greenland drove these Eskimo descendants of the Urantia
aborigines to seek a better land, a new home; and they were successful, safely
crossing the narrow straits which then separated Greenland from the
northeastern land masses of North America. They reached the continent about
twenty-one hundred years after the red man arrived in Alaska. Subsequently some
of the mixed stock of the blue man journeyed westward and amalgamated with the
later-day Eskimos, and this union was slightly beneficial to the Eskimo tribes.

About five thousand years ago a chance meeting occurred between an Indian tribe
and a lone Eskimo group on the southeastern shores of Hudson Bay.

                                top of page - 729

These two tribes found it difficult to communicate with each other, but very
soon they intermarried with the result that these Eskimos were eventually
absorbed by the more numerous red men. And this represents the only contact of
the North American red man with any other human stock down to about one
thousand years ago, when the white man first chanced to land on the Atlantic
coast.

The struggles of these early ages were characterized by courage, bravery, and
even heroism. And we all regret that so many of those sterling and rugged
traits of your early ancestors have been lost to the later-day races. While we
appreciate the value of many of the refinements of advancing civilization, we
miss the magnificent persistency and superb devotion of your early ancestors,
which oftentimes bordered on grandeur and sublimity.

[Presented by a Life Carrier resident on Urantia.]

                                top of page - 730

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³    The First     ³        The        ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³     Human...     ³  Overcontrol...   ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
