                Urantia Book Paper 67 The Planetary Rebellion
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                                      ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Paper 67 The Planetary Rebellion

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE problems associated with human existence on Urantia are impossible of
understanding without a knowledge of certain great epochs of the past, notably
the occurrence and consequences of the planetary rebellion. Although this
upheaval did not seriously interfere with the progress of organic evolution, it
did markedly modify the course of social evolution and of spiritual
development. The entire superphysical history of the planet was profoundly
influenced by this devastating calamity.

1. THE CALIGASTIA BETRAYAL

For three hundred thousand years Caligastia had been in charge of Urantia when
Satan, Lucifer's assistant, made one of his periodic inspection calls. And when
Satan arrived on the planet, his appearance in no way resembled your
caricatures of his nefarious majesty. He was, and still is, a Lanonandek Son of
great brilliance. "And no marvel, for Satan himself is a brilliant creature of
light."

In the course of this inspection Satan informed Caligastia of Lucifer's then
proposed "Declaration of Liberty," and as we now know, the Prince agreed to
betray the planet upon the announcement of the rebellion. The loyal universe
personalities look with peculiar disdain upon Prince Caligastia because of this
premeditated betrayal of trust. The Creator Son voiced this contempt when he
said: "You are like your leader, Lucifer, and you have sinfully perpetuated his
iniquity. He was a falsifier from the beginning of his self-exaltation because
he abode not in the truth."

In all the administrative work of a local universe no high trust is deemed more
sacred than that reposed in a Planetary Prince who assumes responsibility for
the welfare and guidance of the evolving mortals on a newly inhabited world.
And of all forms of evil, none are more destructive of personality status than
betrayal of trust and disloyalty to one's confiding friends. In committing this
deliberate sin, Caligastia so completely distorted his personality that his
mind has never since been able fully to regain its equilibrium.

There are many ways of looking at sin, but from the universe philosophic
viewpoint sin is the attitude of a personality who is knowingly resisting
cosmic reality. Error might be regarded as a misconception or distortion of
reality. Evil is a partial realization of, or maladjustment to, universe
realities. But sin is a purposeful resistance to divine reality--a conscious
choosing to oppose spiritual progress--while iniquity consists in an open and
persistent defiance of recognized reality and signifies such a degree of
personality disintegration as to border on cosmic insanity.

                                top of page - 755

Error suggests lack of intellectual keenness; evil, deficiency of wisdom; sin,
abject spiritual poverty; but iniquity is indicative of vanishing personality
control.

And when sin has so many times been chosen and so often been repeated, it may
become habitual. Habitual sinners can easily become iniquitous, become
wholehearted rebels against the universe and all of its divine realities. While
all manner of sins may be forgiven, we doubt whether the established iniquiter
would ever sincerely experience sorrow for his misdeeds or accept forgiveness
for his sins.

2. THE OUTBREAK OF REBELLION

Shortly after Satan's inspection and when the planetary administration was on
the eve of the realization of great things on Urantia, one day, midwinter of
the northern continents, Caligastia held a prolonged conference with his
associate, Daligastia, after which the latter called the ten councils of
Urantia in session extraordinary. This assembly was opened with the statement
that Prince Caligastia was about to proclaim himself absolute sovereign of
Urantia and demanded that all administrative groups abdicate by resigning all
of their functions and powers into the hands of Daligastia as trustee, pending
the reorganization of the planetary government and the subsequent
redistribution of these offices of administrative authority.

The presentation of this astounding demand was followed by the masterly appeal
of Van, chairman of the supreme council of co-ordination. This distinguished
administrator and able jurist branded the proposed course of Caligastia as an
act bordering on planetary rebellion and appealed to his conferees to abstain
from all participation until an appeal could be taken to Lucifer, the System
Sovereign of Satania; and he won the support of the entire staff. Accordingly,
appeal was taken to Jerusem, and forthwith came back the orders designating
Caligastia as supreme sovereign on Urantia and commanding absolute and
unquestioning allegiance to his mandates. And it was in reply to this amazing
message that the noble Van made his memorable address of seven hours' length in
which he formally drew his indictment of Daligastia, Caligastia, and Lucifer as
standing in contempt of the sovereignty of the universe of Nebadon; and he
appealed to the Most Highs of Edentia for support and confirmation.

Meantime the system circuits had been severed; Urantia was isolated. Every
group of celestial life on the planet found itself suddenly and without warning
isolated, utterly cut off from all outside counsel and advice.

Daligastia formally proclaimed Caligastia "God of Urantia and supreme over
all." With this proclamation before them, the issues were clearly drawn; and
each group drew off by itself and began deliberations, discussions destined
eventually to determine the fate of every superhuman personality on the planet.

Seraphim and cherubim and other celestial beings were involved in the decisions
of this bitter struggle, this long and sinful conflict. Many superhuman groups
that chanced to be on Urantia at the time of its isolation were detained here
and, like the seraphim and their associates, were compelled to choose between
sin and righteousness--between the ways of Lucifer and the will of the unseen
Father.

                                top of page - 756

For more than seven years this struggle continued. Not until every personality
concerned had made a final decision, would or did the authorities of Edentia
interfere or intervene. Not until then did Van and his loyal associates receive
vindication and release from their prolonged anxiety and intolerable suspense.

3. THE SEVEN CRUCIAL YEARS

The outbreak of rebellion on Jerusem, the capital of Satania, was broadcast by
the Melchizedek council. The emergency Melchizedeks were immediately dispatched
to Jerusem, and Gabriel volunteered to act as the representative of the Creator
Son, whose authority had been challenged. With this broadcast of the fact of
rebellion in Satania the system was isolated, quarantined, from her sister
systems. There was "war in heaven," the headquarters of Satania, and it spread
to every planet in the local system.

On Urantia forty members of the corporeal staff of one hundred (including Van)
refused to join the insurrection. Many of the staff's human assistants
(modified and otherwise) were also brave and noble defenders of Michael and his
universe government. There was a terrible loss of personalities among seraphim
and cherubim. Almost one half of the administrator and transition seraphim
assigned to the planet joined their leader and Daligastia in support of the
cause of Lucifer. Forty thousand one hundred and nineteen of the primary midway
creatures joined hands with Caligastia, but the remainder of these beings
remained true to their trust.

The traitorous Prince marshaled the disloyal midway creatures and other groups
of rebel personalities and organized them to execute his bidding, while Van
assembled the loyal midwayers and other faithful groups and began the great
battle for the salvation of the planetary staff and other marooned celestial
personalities.

During the times of this struggle the loyalists dwelt in an unwalled and poorly
protected settlement a few miles to the east of Dalamatia, but their dwellings
were guarded day and night by the alert and ever-watchful loyal midway
creatures, and they had possession of the priceless tree of life.

Upon the outbreak of rebellion, loyal cherubim and seraphim, with the aid of
three faithful midwayers, assumed the custody of the tree of life and permitted
only the forty loyalists of the staff and their associated modified mortals to
partake of the fruit and leaves of this energy plant. There were fifty-six of
these modified Andonite associates of the staff, sixteen of the Andonite
attendants of the disloyal staff refusing to go into rebellion with their
masters.

Throughout the seven crucial years of the Caligastia rebellion, Van was wholly
devoted to the work of ministry to his loyal army of men, midwayers, and
angels. The spiritual insight and moral steadfastness which enabled Van to
maintain such an unshakable attitude of loyalty to the universe government was
the product of clear thinking, wise reasoning, logical judgment, sincere
motivation, unselfish purpose, intelligent loyalty, experiential memory,
disciplined character, and the unquestioning dedication of his personality to
the doing of the will of the Father in Paradise.

This seven years of waiting was a time of heart searching and soul discipline.
Such crises in the affairs of a universe demonstrate the tremendous influence
of mind as a factor in spiritual choosing. Education, training, and experience
are

                                top of page - 757

factors in most of the vital decisions of all evolutionary moral creatures. But
it is entirely possible for the indwelling spirit to make direct contact with
the decision-determining powers of the human personality so as to empower the
fully consecrated will of the creature to perform amazing acts of loyal
devotion to the will and the way of the Father in Paradise. And this is just
what occurred in the experience of Amadon, the modified human associate of Van.

Amadon is the outstanding human hero of the Lucifer rebellion. This male
descendant of Andon and Fonta was one of the one hundred who contributed life
plasm to the Prince's staff, and ever since that event he had been attached to
Van as his associate and human assistant. Amadon elected to stand with his
chief throughout the long and trying struggle. And it was an inspiring sight to
behold this child of the evolutionary races standing unmoved by the sophistries
of Daligastia while throughout the seven-year struggle he and his loyal
associates resisted with unyielding fortitude all of the deceptive teachings of
the brilliant Caligastia.

Caligastia, with a maximum of intelligence and a vast experience in universe
affairs, went astray--embraced sin. Amadon, with a minimum of intelligence and
utterly devoid of universe experience, remained steadfast in the service of the
universe and in loyalty to his associate. Van utilized both mind and spirit in
a magnificent and effective combination of intellectual determination and
spiritual insight, thereby achieving an experiential level of personality
realization of the highest attainable order. Mind and spirit, when fully
united, are potential for the creation of superhuman values, even morontia
realities.

There is no end to the recital of the stirring events of these tragic days. But
at last the final decision of the last personality was made, and then, but only
then, did a Most High of Edentia arrive with the emergency Melchizedeks to
seize authority on Urantia. The Caligastia panoramic reign-records on Jerusem
were obliterated, and the probationary era of planetary rehabilitation was
inaugurated.

4. THE CALIGASTIA ONE HUNDRED AFTER REBELLION

When the final roll was called, the corporeal members of the Prince's staff
were found to have aligned themselves as follows: Van and his entire court of
co-ordination had remained loyal. Ang and three members of the food council had
survived. The board of animal husbandry were all swept into rebellion as were
all of the animal-conquest advisers. Fad and five members of the educational
faculty were saved. Nod and all of the commission on industry and trade joined
Caligastia. Hap and the entire college of revealed religion remained loyal with
Van and his noble band. Lut and the whole board of health were lost. The
council of art and science remained loyal in its entirety, but Tut and the
commission on tribal government all went astray. Thus were forty out of the one
hundred saved, later to be transferred to Jerusem, where they resumed their
Paradise journey.

The sixty members of the planetary staff who went into rebellion chose Nod as
their leader. They worked wholeheartedly for the rebel Prince but soon
discovered that they were deprived of the sustenance of the system life
circuits. They awakened to the fact that they had been degraded to the status
of mortal beings. They were indeed superhuman but, at the same time, material
and mortal. In an effort to increase their numbers, Daligastia ordered
immediate resort to

                                top of page - 758

sexual reproduction, knowing full well that the original sixty and their
forty-four modified Andonite associates were doomed to suffer extinction by
death, sooner or later. After the fall of Dalamatia the disloyal staff migrated
to the north and the east. Their descendants were long known as the Nodites,
and their dwelling place as "the land of Nod."

The presence of these extraordinary supermen and superwomen, stranded by
rebellion and presently mating with the sons and daughters of earth, easily
gave origin to those traditional stories of the gods coming down to mate with
mortals. And thus originated the thousand and one legends of a mythical nature,
but founded on the facts of the postrebellion days, which later found a place
in the folk tales and traditions of the various peoples whose ancestors had
participated in these contacts with the Nodites and their descendants.

The staff rebels, deprived of spiritual sustenance, eventually died a natural
death. And much of the subsequent idolatry of the human races grew out of the
desire to perpetuate the memory of these highly honored beings of the days of
Caligastia.

When the staff of one hundred came to Urantia, they were temporarily detached
from their Thought Adjusters. Immediately upon the arrival of the Melchizedek
receivers the loyal personalities (except Van) were returned to Jerusem and
were reunited with their waiting Adjusters. We know not the fate of the sixty
staff rebels; their Adjusters still tarry on Jerusem. Matters will undoubtedly
rest as they now are until the entire Lucifer rebellion is finally adjudicated
and the fate of all participants decreed.

It was very difficult for such beings as angels and midwayers to conceive of
brilliant and trusted rulers like Caligastia and Daligastia going
astray--committing traitorous sin. Those beings who fell into sin--they did not
deliberately or premeditatedly enter upon rebellion--were misled by their
superiors, deceived by their trusted leaders. It was likewise easy to win the
support of the primitive-minded evolutionary mortals.

The vast majority of all human and superhuman beings who were victims of the
Lucifer rebellion on Jerusem and the various misled planets have long since
heartily repented of their folly; and we truly believe that all such sincere
penitents will in some manner be rehabilitated and restored to some phase of
universe service when the Ancients of Days finally complete the adjudication of
the affairs of the Satania rebellion, which they have so recently begun.

5. IMMEDIATE RESULTS OF REBELLION

Great confusion reigned in Dalamatia and thereabout for almost fifty years
after the instigation of rebellion. The complete and radical reorganization of
the whole world was attempted; revolution displaced evolution as the policy of
cultural advancement and racial improvement. Among the superior and partially
trained sojourners in and near Dalamatia there appeared a sudden advancement in
cultural status, but when these new and radical methods were attempted on the
outlying peoples, indescribable confusion and racial pandemonium was the
immediate result. Liberty was quickly translated into license by the
half-evolved primitive men of those days.

Very soon after the rebellion the entire staff of sedition were engaged in
energetic defense of the city against the hordes of semisavages who besieged
its

                                top of page - 759

walls as a result of the doctrines of liberty which had been prematurely taught
them. And years before the beautiful headquarters went down beneath the
southern waves, the misled and mistaught tribes of the Dalamatia hinterland had
already swept down in semisavage assault on the splendid city, driving the
secession staff and their associates northward.

The Caligastia scheme for the immediate reconstruction of human society in
accordance with his ideas of individual freedom and group liberties, proved a
swift and more or less complete failure. Society quickly sank back to its old
biologic level, and the forward struggle began all over, starting not very far
in advance of where it was at the beginning of the Caligastia regime, this
upheaval having left the world in confusion worse confounded.

One hundred and sixty-two years after the rebellion a tidal wave swept up over
Dalamatia, and the planetary headquarters sank beneath the waters of the sea,
and this land did not again emerge until almost every vestige of the noble
culture of those splendid ages had been obliterated.

When the first capital of the world was engulfed, it harbored only the lowest
types of the Sangik races of Urantia, renegades who had already converted the
Father's temple into a shrine dedicated to Nog, the false god of light and
fire.

6. VAN--THE STEADFAST

The followers of Van early withdrew to the highlands west of India, where they
were exempt from attacks by the confused races of the lowlands, and from which
place of retirement they planned for the rehabilitation of the world as their
early Badonite predecessors had once all unwittingly worked for the welfare of
mankind just before the days of the birth of the Sangik tribes.

Before the arrival of the Melchizedek receivers, Van placed the administration
of human affairs in the hands of ten commissions of four each, groups identical
with those of the Prince's regime. The senior resident Life Carriers assumed
temporary leadership of this council of forty, which functioned throughout the
seven years of waiting. Similar groups of Amadonites assumed these
responsibilities when the thirty-nine loyal staff members returned to Jerusem.

These Amadonites were derived from the group of 144 loyal Andonites to which
Amadon belonged, and who have become known by his name. This group comprised
thirty-nine men and one hundred and five women. Fifty-six of this number were
of immortality status, and all (except Amadon) were translated along with the
loyal members of the staff. The remainder of this noble band continued on earth
to the end of their mortal days under the leadership of Van and Amadon. They
were the biologic leaven which multiplied and continued to furnish leadership
for the world down through the long dark ages of the postrebellion era.

Van was left on Urantia until the time of Adam, remaining as titular head of
all superhuman personalities functioning on the planet. He and Amadon were
sustained by the technique of the tree of life in conjunction with the
specialized life ministry of the Melchizedeks for over one hundred and fifty
thousand years.

The affairs of Urantia were for a long time administered by a council of
planetary receivers, twelve Melchizedeks, confirmed by the mandate of the
senior constellation ruler, the Most High Father of Norlatiadek. Associated
with the Melchizedek receivers was an advisory council consisting of: one of

                                top of page - 760

the loyal aids of the fallen Prince, the two resident Life Carriers, a
Trinitized Son in apprenticeship training, a volunteer Teacher Son, a Brilliant
Evening Star of Avalon (periodically), the chiefs of seraphim and cherubim,
advisers from two neighboring planets, the director general of subordinate
angelic life, and Van, the commander in chief of the midway creatures. And thus
was Urantia governed and administered until the arrival of Adam. It is not
strange that the courageous and loyal Van was assigned a place on the council
of planetary receivers which for so long administered the affairs of Urantia.

The twelve Melchizedek receivers of Urantia did heroic work. They preserved the
remnants of civilization, and their planetary policies were faithfully executed
by Van. Within one thousand years after the rebellion he had more than three
hundred and fifty advanced groups scattered abroad in the world. These outposts
of civilization consisted largely of the descendants of the loyal Andonites
slightly admixed with the Sangik races, particularly the blue men, and with the
Nodites.

Notwithstanding the terrible setback of rebellion there were many good strains
of biologic promise on earth. Under the supervision of the Melchizedek
receivers, Van and Amadon continued the work of fostering the natural evolution
of the human race, carrying forward the physical evolution of man until it
reached that culminating attainment which warranted the dispatch of a Material
Son and Daughter to Urantia.

Van and Amadon remained on earth until shortly after the arrival of Adam and
Eve. Some years thereafter they were translated to Jerusem, where Van was
reunited with his waiting Adjuster. Van now serves in behalf of Urantia while
awaiting the order to go forward on the long, long trail to Paradise perfection
and the unrevealed destiny of the assembling Corps of Mortal Finality.

It should be recorded that, when Van appealed to the Most Highs of Edentia
after Lucifer had sustained Caligastia on Urantia, the Constellation Fathers
dispatched an immediate decision sustaining Van on every point of his
contention. This verdict failed to reach him because the planetary circuits of
communication were severed while it was in transit. Only recently was this
actual ruling discovered lodged in the possession of a relay energy transmitter
where it had been marooned ever since the isolation of Urantia. Without this
discovery, made as the result of the investigations of the Urantia midwayers,
the release of this decision would have awaited the restoration of Urantia to
the constellation circuits. And this apparent accident of interplanetary
communication was possible because energy transmitters can receive and transmit
intelligence, but they cannot initiate communication.

The technical status of Van on the legal records of Satania was not actually
and finally settled until this ruling of the Edentia Fathers was recorded on
Jerusem.

7. REMOTE REPERCUSSIONS OF SIN

The personal (centripetal) consequences of the creature's willful and
persistent rejection of light are both inevitable and individual and are of
concern only to Deity and to that personal creature. Such a soul-destroying
harvest of iniquity is the inner reaping of the iniquitous will creature.

                                top of page - 761

But not so with the external repercussions of sin: The impersonal (centrifugal)
consequences of embraced sin are both inevitable and collective, being of
concern to every creature functioning within the affect-range of such events.

By fifty thousand years after the collapse of the planetary administration,
earthly affairs were so disorganized and retarded that the human race had
gained very little over the general evolutionary status existing at the time of
Caligastia's arrival three hundred and fifty thousand years previously. In
certain respects progress had been made; in other directions much ground had
been lost.

Sin is never purely local in its effects. The administrative sectors of the
universes are organismal; the plight of one personality must to a certain
extent be shared by all. Sin, being an attitude of the person toward reality,
is destined to exhibit its inherent negativistic harvest upon any and all
related levels of universe values. But the full consequences of erroneous
thinking, evil-doing, or sinful planning are experienced only on the level of
actual performance. The transgression of universe law may be fatal in the
physical realm without seriously involving the mind or impairing the spiritual
experience. Sin is fraught with fatal consequences to personality survival only
when it is the attitude of the whole being, when it stands for the choosing of
the mind and the willing of the soul.

Evil and sin visit their consequences in material and social realms and may
sometimes even retard spiritual progress on certain levels of universe reality,
but never does the sin of any being rob another of the realization of the
divine right of personality survival. Eternal survival can be jeopardized only
by the decisions of the mind and the choice of the soul of the individual
himself.

Sin on Urantia did very little to delay biologic evolution, but it did operate
to deprive the mortal races of the full benefit of the Adamic inheritance. Sin
enormously retards intellectual development, moral growth, social progress, and
mass spiritual attainment. But it does not prevent the highest spiritual
achievement by any individual who chooses to know God and sincerely do his
divine will.

Caligastia rebelled, Adam and Eve did default, but no mortal subsequently born
on Urantia has suffered in his personal spiritual experience because of these
blunders. Every mortal born on Urantia since Caligastia's rebellion has been in
some manner time-penalized, but the future welfare of such souls has never been
in the least eternity-jeopardized. No person is ever made to suffer vital
spiritual deprivation because of the sin of another. Sin is wholly personal as
to moral guilt or spiritual consequences, notwithstanding its far-flung
repercussions in administrative, intellectual, and social domains.

While we cannot fathom the wisdom that permits such catastrophes, we can always
discern the beneficial outworking of these local disturbances as they are
reflected out upon the universe at large.

8. THE HUMAN HERO OF THE REBELLION

The Lucifer rebellion was withstood by many courageous beings on the various
worlds of Satania; but the records of Salvington portray Amadon as the
outstanding character of the entire system in his glorious rejection of the
flood tides of sedition and in his unswerving devotion to Van--they stood
together unmoved in their loyalty to the supremacy of the invisible Father and
his Son Michael.

                                top of page - 762

At the time of these momentous transactions I was stationed on Edentia, and I
am still conscious of the exhilaration I experienced as I perused the
Salvington broadcasts which told from day to day of the unbelievable
steadfastness, the transcendent devotion, and the exquisite loyalty of this
onetime semisavage springing from the experimental and original stock of the
Andonic race.

From Edentia up through Salvington and even on to Uversa, for seven long years
the first inquiry of all subordinate celestial life regarding the Satania
rebellion, ever and always, was: "What of Amadon of Urantia, does he still
stand unmoved?"

If the Lucifer rebellion has handicapped the local system and its fallen
worlds, if the loss of this Son and his misled associates has temporarily
hampered the progress of the constellation of Norlatiadek, then weigh the
effect of the far-flung presentation of the inspiring performance of this one
child of nature and his determined band of 143 comrades in standing steadfast
for the higher concepts of universe management and administration in the face
of such tremendous and adverse pressure exerted by his disloyal superiors. And
let me assure you, this has already done more good in the universe of Nebadon
and the superuniverse of Orvonton than can ever be outweighed by the sum total
of all the evil and sorrow of the Lucifer rebellion.

And all this is a beautifully touching and superbly magnificent illumination of
the wisdom of the Father's universal plan for mobilizing the Corps of Mortal
Finality on Paradise and for recruiting this vast group of mysterious servants
of the future largely from the common clay of the mortals of ascending
progression--just such mortals as the impregnable Amadon.

[Presented by a Melchizedek of Nebadon.]

                                top of page - 763

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³  The Planetary   ³    The Dawn Of    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³       P...       ³      Civ...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
