              Urantia Book Paper 75 The Default Of Adam And Eve
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                                      ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Paper 75 The Default Of Adam And Eve

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

AFTER more than one hundred years of effort on Urantia, Adam was able to see
very little progress outside the Garden; the world at large did not seem to be
improving much. The realization of race betterment appeared to be a long way
off, and the situation seemed so desperate as to demand something for relief
not embraced in the original plans. At least that is what often passed through
Adam's mind, and he so expressed himself many times to Eve. Adam and his mate
were loyal, but they were isolated from their kind, and they were sorely
distressed by the sorry plight of their world.

1. THE URANTIA PROBLEM

The Adamic mission on experimental, rebellion-seared, and isolated Urantia was
a formidable undertaking. And the Material Son and Daughter early became aware
of the difficulty and complexity of their planetary assignment. Nevertheless,
they courageously set about the task of solving their manifold problems. But
when they addressed themselves to the all-important work of eliminating the
defectives and degenerates from among the human strains, they were quite
dismayed. They could see no way out of the dilemma, and they could not take
counsel with their superiors on either Jerusem or Edentia. Here they were,
isolated and day by day confronted with some new and complicated tangle, some
problem that seemed to be unsolvable.

Under normal conditions the first work of a Planetary Adam and Eve would be the
co-ordination and blending of the races. But on Urantia such a project seemed
just about hopeless, for the races, while biologically fit, had never been
purged of their retarded and defective strains.

Adam and Eve found themselves on a sphere wholly unprepared for the
proclamation of the brotherhood of man, a world groping about in abject
spiritual darkness and cursed with confusion worse confounded by the
miscarriage of the mission of the preceding administration. Mind and morals
were at a low level, and instead of beginning the task of effecting religious
unity, they must begin all anew the work of converting the inhabitants to the
most simple forms of religious belief. Instead of finding one language ready
for adoption, they were confronted by the world-wide confusion of hundreds upon
hundreds of local dialects. No Adam of the planetary service was ever set down
on a more difficult world; the obstacles seemed insuperable and the problems
beyond creature solution.

They were isolated, and the tremendous sense of loneliness which bore down upon
them was all the more heightened by the early departure of the Melchizedek
receivers. Only indirectly, by means of the angelic orders, could they communi-

                                top of page - 840

cate with any being off the planet. Slowly their courage weakened, their
spirits drooped, and sometimes their faith almost faltered.

And this is the true picture of the consternation of these two noble souls as
they pondered the tasks which confronted them. They were both keenly aware of
the enormous undertaking involved in the execution of their planetary
assignment.

Probably no Material Sons of Nebadon were ever faced with such a difficult and
seemingly hopeless task as confronted Adam and Eve in the sorry plight of
Urantia. But they would have sometime met with success had they been more
farseeing and patient. Both of them, especially Eve, were altogether too
impatient; they were not willing to settle down to the long, long endurance
test. They wanted to see some immediate results, and they did, but the results
thus secured proved most disastrous both to themselves and to their world.

2. CALIGASTIA'S PLOT

Caligastia paid frequent visits to the Garden and held many conferences with
Adam and Eve, but they were adamant to all his suggestions of compromise and
short-cut adventures. They had before them enough of the results of rebellion
to produce effective immunity against all such insinuating proposals. Even the
young offspring of Adam were uninfluenced by the overtures of Daligastia. And
of course neither Caligastia nor his associate had power to influence any
individual against his will, much less to persuade the children of Adam to do
wrong.

It must be remembered that Caligastia was still the titular Planetary Prince of
Urantia, a misguided but nevertheless high Son of the local universe. He was
not finally deposed until the times of Christ Michael on Urantia.

But the fallen Prince was persistent and determined. He soon gave up working on
Adam and decided to try a wily flank attack on Eve. The evil one concluded that
the only hope for success lay in the adroit employment of suitable persons
belonging to the upper strata of the Nodite group, the descendants of his
onetime corporeal-staff associates. And the plans were accordingly laid for
entrapping the mother of the violet race.

It was farthest from Eve's intention ever to do anything which would militate
against Adam's plans or jeopardize their planetary trust. Knowing the tendency
of woman to look upon immediate results rather than to plan farsightedly for
more remote effects, the Melchizedeks, before departing, had especially
enjoined Eve as to the peculiar dangers besetting their isolated position on
the planet and had in particular warned her never to stray from the side of her
mate, that is, to attempt no personal or secret methods of furthering their
mutual undertakings. Eve had most scrupulously carried out these instructions
for more than one hundred years, and it did not occur to her that any danger
would attach to the increasingly private and confidential visits she was
enjoying with a certain Nodite leader named Serapatatia. The whole affair
developed so gradually and naturally that she was taken unawares.

The Garden dwellers had been in contact with the Nodites since the early days
of Eden. From these mixed descendants of the defaulting members of Caligastia's
staff they had received much valuable help and co-operation, and through them
the Edenic regime was now to meet its complete undoing and final overthrow.

                                top of page - 841

3. THE TEMPTATION OF EVE

Adam had just finished his first one hundred years on earth when Serapatatia,
upon the death of his father, came to the leadership of the western or Syrian
confederation of the Nodite tribes. Serapatatia was a brown-tinted man, a
brilliant descendant of the onetime chief of the Dalamatia commission on health
mated with one of the master female minds of the blue race of those distant
days. All down through the ages this line had held authority and wielded a
great influence among the western Nodite tribes.

Serapatatia had made several visits to the Garden and had become deeply
impressed with the righteousness of Adam's cause. And shortly after assuming
the leadership of the Syrian Nodites, he announced his intention of
establishing an affiliation with the work of Adam and Eve in the Garden. The
majority of his people joined him in this program, and Adam was cheered by the
news that the most powerful and the most intelligent of all the neighboring
tribes had swung over almost bodily to the support of the program for world
improvement; it was decidedly heartening. And shortly after this great event,
Serapatatia and his new staff were entertained by Adam and Eve in their own
home.

Serapatatia became one of the most able and efficient of all of Adam's
lieutenants. He was entirely honest and thoroughly sincere in all of his
activities; he was never conscious, even later on, that he was being used as a
circumstantial tool of the wily Caligastia.

Presently, Serapatatia became the associate chairman of the Edenic commission
on tribal relations, and many plans were laid for the more vigorous prosecution
of the work of winning the remote tribes to the cause of the Garden.

He held many conferences with Adam and Eve--especially with Eve--and they
talked over many plans for improving their methods. One day, during a talk with
Eve, it occurred to Serapatatia that it would be very helpful if, while
awaiting the recruiting of large numbers of the violet race, something could be
done in the meantime immediately to advance the needy waiting tribes.
Serapatatia contended that, if the Nodites, as the most progressive and
co-operative race, could have a leader born to them of part origin in the
violet stock, it would constitute a powerful tie binding these peoples more
closely to the Garden. And all of this was soberly and honestly considered to
be for the good of the world since this child, to be reared and educated in the
Garden, would exert a great influence for good over his father's people.

It should again be emphasized that Serapatatia was altogether honest and wholly
sincere in all that he proposed. He never once suspected that he was playing
into the hands of Caligastia and Daligastia. Serapatatia was entirely loyal to
the plan of building up a strong reserve of the violet race before attempting
the world-wide upstepping of the confused peoples of Urantia. But this would
require hundreds of years to consummate, and he was impatient; he wanted to see
some immediate results--something in his own lifetime. He made it clear to Eve
that Adam was oftentimes discouraged by the little that had been accomplished
toward uplifting the world.

For more than five years these plans were secretly matured. At last they had
developed to the point where Eve consented to have a secret conference with

                                top of page - 842

Cano, the most brilliant mind and active leader of the near-by colony of
friendly Nodites. Cano was very sympathetic with the Adamic regime; in fact, he
was the sincere spiritual leader of those neighboring Nodites who favored
friendly relations with the Garden.

The fateful meeting occurred during the twilight hours of the autumn evening,
not far from the home of Adam. Eve had never before met the beautiful and
enthusiastic Cano--and he was a magnificent specimen of the survival of the
superior physique and outstanding intellect of his remote progenitors of the
Prince's staff. And Cano also thoroughly believed in the righteousness of the
Serapatatia project. (Outside of the Garden, multiple mating was a common
practice.)

Influenced by flattery, enthusiasm, and great personal persuasion, Eve then and
there consented to embark upon the much-discussed enterprise, to add her own
little scheme of world saving to the larger and more far-reaching divine plan.

                                top of page - 843

Before she quite realized what was transpiring, the fatal step had been taken.
It was done.

4. THE REALIZATION OF DEFAULT

The celestial life of the planet was astir. Adam recognized that something was
wrong, and he asked Eve to come aside with him in the Garden. And now, for the
first time, Adam heard the entire story of the long-nourished plan for
accelerating world improvement by operating simultaneously in two directions:
the prosecution of the divine plan concomitantly with the execution of the
Serapatatia enterprise.

And as the Material Son and Daughter thus communed in the moonlit Garden, "the
voice in the Garden" reproved them for disobedience. And that voice was none
other than my own announcement to the Edenic pair that they had transgressed
the Garden covenant; that they had disobeyed the instructions of the
Melchizedeks; that they had defaulted in the execution of their oaths of trust
to the sovereign of the universe.

Eve had consented to participate in the practice of good and evil. Good is the
carrying out of the divine plans; sin is a deliberate transgression of the
divine will; evil is the misadaptation of plans and the maladjustment of
techniques resulting in universe disharmony and planetary confusion.

Every time the Garden pair had partaken of the fruit of the tree of life, they
had been warned by the archangel custodian to refrain from yielding to the
suggestions of Caligastia to combine good and evil. They had been thus
admonished: "In the day that you commingle good and evil, you shall surely
become as the mortals of the realm; you shall surely die."

Eve had told Cano of this oft-repeated warning on the fateful occasion of their
secret meeting, but Cano, not knowing the import or significance of such
admonitions, had assured her that men and women with good motives and true
intentions could do no evil; that she should surely not die but rather live
anew in the person of their offspring, who would grow up to bless and stabilize
the world.

Even though this project of modifying the divine plan had been conceived and
executed with entire sincerity and with only the highest motives concerning the
welfare of the world, it constituted evil because it represented the wrong way
to achieve righteous ends, because it departed from the right way, the divine
plan.

True, Eve had found Cano pleasant to the eyes, and she realized all that her
seducer promised by way of "new and increased knowledge of human affairs and
quickened understanding of human nature as supplemental to the comprehension of
the Adamic nature."

I talked to the father and mother of the violet race that night in the Garden
as became my duty under the sorrowful circumstances. I listened fully to the
recital of all that led up to the default of Mother Eve and gave both of them
advice and counsel concerning the immediate situation. Some of this advice they
followed; some they disregarded. This conference appears in your records as
"the Lord God calling to Adam and Eve in the Garden and asking, `Where are
you?'" It was the practice of later generations to attribute everything unusual
and extraordinary, whether natural or spiritual, directly to the personal
intervention of the Gods.

5. REPERCUSSIONS OF DEFAULT

Eve's disillusionment was truly pathetic. Adam discerned the whole predicament
and, while heartbroken and dejected, entertained only pity and sympathy for his
erring mate.

It was in the despair of the realization of failure that Adam, the day after
Eve's misstep, sought out Laotta, the brilliant Nodite woman who was head of
the western schools of the Garden, and with premeditation committed the folly
of Eve. But do not misunderstand; Adam was not beguiled; he knew exactly what
he was about; he deliberately chose to share the fate of Eve. He loved his mate
with a supermortal affection, and the thought of the possibility of a lonely
vigil on Urantia without her was more than he could endure.

When they learned what had happened to Eve, the infuriated inhabitants of the
Garden became unmanageable; they declared war on the near-by Nodite settlement.
They swept out through the gates of Eden and down upon these unprepared people,
utterly destroying them--not a man, woman, or child was spared. And Cano, the
father of Cain yet unborn, also perished.

Upon the realization of what had happened, Serapatatia was overcome with
consternation and beside himself with fear and remorse. The next day he drowned
himself in the great river.

The children of Adam sought to comfort their distracted mother while their
father wandered in solitude for thirty days. At the end of that time judgment
asserted itself, and Adam returned to his home and began to plan for their
future course of action.

The consequences of the follies of misguided parents are so often shared by
their innocent children. The upright and noble sons and daughters of Adam and
Eve were overwhelmed by the inexplicable sorrow of the unbelievable tragedy
which had been so suddenly and so ruthlessly thrust upon them. Not in fifty
years did the older of these children recover from the sorrow and sadness of
those tragic days, especially the terror of that period of thirty days during
which their father was absent from home while their distracted mother was in
complete ignorance of his whereabouts or fate.

And those same thirty days were as long years of sorrow and suffering to Eve.
Never did this noble soul fully recover from the effects of that excruciating
period of mental suffering and spiritual sorrow. No feature of their subsequent
deprivations and material hardships ever began to compare in Eve's memory

                                top of page - 844

with those terrible days and awful nights of loneliness and unbearable
uncertainty. She learned of the rash act of Serapatatia and did not know
whether her mate had in sorrow destroyed himself or had been removed from the
world in retribution for her misstep. And when Adam returned, Eve experienced a
satisfaction of joy and gratitude that never was effaced by their long and
difficult life partnership of toiling service.

Time passed, but Adam was not certain of the nature of their offense until
seventy days after the default of Eve, when the Melchizedek receivers returned
to Urantia and assumed jurisdiction over world affairs. And then he knew they
had failed.

But still more trouble was brewing: The news of the annihilation of the Nodite
settlement near Eden was not slow in reaching the home tribes of Serapatatia to
the north, and presently a great host was assembling to march on the Garden.
And this was the beginning of a long and bitter warfare between the Adamites
and the Nodites, for these hostilities kept up long after Adam and his
followers emigrated to the second garden in the Euphrates valley. There was
intense and lasting "enmity between that man and the woman, between his seed
and her seed."

6. ADAM AND EVE LEAVE THE GARDEN

When Adam learned that the Nodites were on the march, he sought the counsel of
the Melchizedeks, but they refused to advise him, only telling him to do as he
thought best and promising their friendly co-operation, as far as possible, in
any course he might decide upon. The Melchizedeks had been forbidden to
interfere with the personal plans of Adam and Eve.

Adam knew that he and Eve had failed; the presence of the Melchizedek receivers
told him that, though he still knew nothing of their personal status or future
fate. He held an all-night conference with some twelve hundred loyal followers
who pledged themselves to follow their leader, and the next day at noon these
pilgrims went forth from Eden in quest of new homes. Adam had no liking for war
and accordingly elected to leave the first garden to the Nodites unopposed.

The Edenic caravan was halted on the third day out from the Garden by the
arrival of the seraphic transports from Jerusem. And for the first time Adam
and Eve were informed of what was to become of their children. While the
transports stood by, those children who had arrived at the age of choice
(twenty years) were given the option of remaining on Urantia with their parents
or of becoming wards of the Most Highs of Norlatiadek. Two thirds chose to go
to Edentia; about one third elected to remain with their parents. All children
of prechoice age were taken to Edentia. No one could have beheld the sorrowful
parting of this Material Son and Daughter and their children without realizing
that the way of the transgressor is hard. These offspring of Adam and Eve are
now on Edentia; we do not know what disposition is to be made of them.

It was a sad, sad caravan that prepared to journey on. Could anything have been
more tragic! To have come to a world in such high hopes, to have been so
auspiciously received, and then to go forth in disgrace from Eden, only to lose
more than three fourths of their children even before finding a new abiding
place!

                                top of page - 845

7. DEGRADATION OF ADAM AND EVE

It was while the Edenic caravan was halted that Adam and Eve were informed of
the nature of their transgressions and advised concerning their fate. Gabriel
appeared to pronounce judgment. And this was the verdict: The Planetary Adam
and Eve of Urantia are adjudged in default; they have violated the covenant of
their trusteeship as the rulers of this inhabited world.

While downcast by the sense of guilt, Adam and Eve were greatly cheered by the
announcement that their judges on Salvington had absolved them from all charges
of standing in "contempt of the universe government." They had not been held
guilty of rebellion.

The Edenic pair were informed that they had degraded themselves to the status
of the mortals of the realm; that they must henceforth conduct themselves as
man and woman of Urantia, looking to the future of the world races for their
future.

Long before Adam and Eve left Jerusem, their instructors had fully explained to
them the consequences of any vital departure from the divine plans. I had
personally and repeatedly warned them, both before and after they arrived on
Urantia, that reduction to the status of mortal flesh would be the certain
result, the sure penalty, which would unfailingly attend default in the
execution of their planetary mission. But a comprehension of the immortality
status of the material order of sonship is essential to a clear understanding
of the consequences attendant upon the default of Adam and Eve.

1. Adam and Eve, like their fellows on Jerusem, maintained immortal status
through intellectual association with the mind-gravity circuit of the Spirit.
When this vital sustenance is broken by mental disjunction, then, regardless of
the spiritual level of creature existence, immortality status is lost. Mortal
status followed by physical dissolution was the inevitable consequence of the
intellectual default of Adam and Eve.

2. The Material Son and Daughter of Urantia, being also personalized in the
similitude of the mortal flesh of this world, were further dependent on the
maintenance of a dual circulatory system, the one derived from their physical
natures, the other from the superenergy stored in the fruit of the tree of
life. Always had the archangel custodian admonished Adam and Eve that default
of trust would culminate in degradation of status, and access to this source of
energy was denied them subsequent to their default.

Caligastia did succeed in trapping Adam and Eve, but he did not accomplish his
purpose of leading them into open rebellion against the universe government.
What they had done was indeed evil, but they were never guilty of contempt for
truth, neither did they knowingly enlist in rebellion against the righteous
rule of the Universal Father and his Creator Son.

8. THE SO-CALLED FALL OF MAN

Adam and Eve did fall from their high estate of material sonship down to the
lowly status of mortal man. But that was not the fall of man. The human race
has been uplifted despite the immediate consequences of the Adamic default.
Although the divine plan of giving the violet race to the Urantia peoples
miscarried, the mortal races have profited enormously from the limited
contribution which Adam and his descendants made to the Urantia races.

                                top of page - 846

There has been no "fall of man." The history of the human race is one of
progressive evolution, and the Adamic bestowal left the world peoples greatly
improved over their previous biologic condition. The more superior stocks of
Urantia now contain inheritance factors derived from as many as four separate
sources: Andonite, Sangik, Nodite, and Adamic.

Adam should not be regarded as the cause of a curse on the human race. While he
did fail in carrying forward the divine plan, while he did transgress his
covenant with Deity, while he and his mate were most certainly degraded in
creature status, notwithstanding all this, their contribution to the human race
did much to advance civilization on Urantia.

In estimating the results of the Adamic mission on your world, justice demands
the recognition of the condition of the planet. Adam was confronted with a
well-nigh hopeless task when, with his beautiful mate, he was transported from
Jerusem to this dark and confused planet. But had they been guided by the
counsel of the Melchizedeks and their associates, and had they been more
patient, they would have eventually met with success. But Eve listened to the
insidious propaganda of personal liberty and planetary freedom of action. She
was led to experiment with the life plasm of the material order of sonship in
that she allowed this life trust to become prematurely commingled with that of
the then mixed order of the original design of the Life Carriers which had been
previously combined with that of the reproducing beings once attached to the
staff of the Planetary Prince.

Never, in all your ascent to Paradise, will you gain anything by impatiently
attempting to circumvent the established and divine plan by short cuts,
personal inventions, or other devices for improving on the way of perfection,
to perfection, and for eternal perfection.

All in all, there probably never was a more disheartening miscarriage of wisdom
on any planet in all Nebadon. But it is not surprising that these missteps
occur in the affairs of the evolutionary universes. We are a part of a gigantic
creation, and it is not strange that everything does not work in perfection;
our universe was not created in perfection. Perfection is our eternal goal, not
our origin.

If this were a mechanistic universe, if the First Great Source and Center were
only a force and not also a personality, if all creation were a vast
aggregation of physical matter dominated by precise laws characterized by
unvarying energy actions, then might perfection obtain, even despite the
incompleteness of universe status. There would be no disagreement; there would
be no friction. But in our evolving universe of relative perfection and
imperfection we rejoice that disagreement and misunderstanding are possible,
for thereby is evidenced the fact and the act of personality in the universe.
And if our creation is an existence dominated by personality, then can you be
assured of the possibilities of personality survival, advancement, and
achievement; we can be confident of personality growth, experience, and
adventure. What a glorious universe, in that it is personal and progressive,
not merely mechanical or even passively perfect!

[Presented by Solonia, the seraphic "voice in the Garden."]

                                top of page - 847

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

  ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
  ³      //      ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
  ³ Adam And Eve ³    The Second     ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
  ³              ³      Gard...      ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
  ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
