                   Urantia Book Paper 76 The Second Garden
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                                      ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          Paper 76 The Second Garden

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

WHEN Adam elected to leave the first garden to the Nodites unopposed, he and
his followers could not go west, for the Edenites had no boats suitable for
such a marine adventure. They could not go north; the northern Nodites were
already on the march toward Eden. They feared to go south; the hills of that
region were infested with hostile tribes. The only way open was to the east,
and so they journeyed eastward toward the then pleasant regions between the
Tigris and Euphrates rivers. And many of those who were left behind later
journeyed eastward to join the Adamites in their new valley home.

Cain and Sansa were both born before the Adamic caravan had reached its
destination between the rivers in Mesopotamia. Laotta, the mother of Sansa,
perished at the birth of her daughter; Eve suffered much but survived, owing to
superior strength. Eve took Sansa, the child of Laotta, to her bosom, and she
was reared along with Cain. Sansa grew up to be a woman of great ability. She
became the wife of Sargan, the chief of the northern blue race, and contributed
to the advancement of the blue men of those times.

1. THE EDENITES ENTER MESOPOTAMIA

It required almost a full year for the caravan of Adam to reach the Euphrates
River. Finding it in flood tide, they remained camped on the plains west of the
stream almost six weeks before they made their way across to the land between
the rivers which was to become the second garden.

When word had reached the dwellers in the land of the second garden that the
king and high priest of the Garden of Eden was marching on them, they had fled
in haste to the eastern mountains. Adam found all of the desired territory
vacated when he arrived. And here in this new location Adam and his helpers set
themselves to work to build new homes and establish a new center of culture and
religion.

This site was known to Adam as one of the three original selections of the
committee assigned to choose possible locations for the Garden proposed by Van
and Amadon. The two rivers themselves were a good natural defense in those
days, and a short way north of the second garden the Euphrates and Tigris came
close together so that a defense wall extending fifty-six miles could be built
for the protection of the territory to the south and between the rivers.

After getting settled in the new Eden, it became necessary to adopt crude
methods of living; it seemed entirely true that the ground had been cursed.
Nature was once again taking its course. Now were the Adamites compelled

                                top of page - 848

to wrest a living from unprepared soil and to cope with the realities of life
in the face of the natural hostilities and incompatibilities of mortal
existence. They found the first garden partially prepared for them, but the
second had to be created by the labor of their own hands and in the "sweat of
their faces."

2. CAIN AND ABEL

Less than two years after Cain's birth, Abel was born, the first child of Adam
and Eve to be born in the second garden. When Abel grew up to the age of twelve
years, he elected to be a herder; Cain had chosen to follow agriculture.

Now, in those days it was customary to make offerings to the priesthood of the
things at hand. Herders would bring of their flocks, farmers of the fruits of
the fields; and in accordance with this custom, Cain and Abel likewise made
periodic offerings to the priests. The two boys had many times argued about the
relative merits of their vocations, and Abel was not slow to note that
preference was shown for his animal sacrifices. In vain did Cain appeal to the
traditions of the first Eden, to the former preference for the fruits of the
fields. But this Abel would not allow, and he taunted his older brother in his
discomfiture.

In the days of the first Eden Adam had indeed sought to discourage the offering
of animal sacrifice so that Cain had a justifiable precedent for his
contentions. It was, however, difficult to organize the religious life of the
second Eden. Adam was burdened with a thousand and one details associated with
the work of building, defense, and agriculture. Being much depressed
spiritually, he intrusted the organization of worship and education to those of
Nodite extraction who had served in these capacities in the first garden; and
in even so short a time the officiating Nodite priests were reverting to the
standards and rulings of pre-Adamic times.

The two boys never got along well, and this matter of sacrifices further
contributed to the growing hatred between them. Abel knew he was the son of
both Adam and Eve and never failed to impress upon Cain that Adam was not his
father. Cain was not pure violet as his father was of the Nodite race later
admixed with the blue and the red man and with the aboriginal Andonic stock.
And all of this, with Cain's natural bellicose inheritance, caused him to
nourish an ever-increasing hatred for his younger brother.

The boys were respectively eighteen and twenty years of age when the tension
between them was finally resolved, one day, when Abel's taunts so infuriated
his bellicose brother that Cain turned upon him in wrath and slew him.

The observation of Abel's conduct establishes the value of environment and
education as factors in character development. Abel had an ideal inheritance,
and heredity lies at the bottom of all character; but the influence of an
inferior environment virtually neutralized this magnificent inheritance. Abel,
especially during his younger years, was greatly influenced by his unfavorable
surroundings. He would have become an entirely different person had he lived to
be twenty-five or thirty; his superb inheritance would then have shown itself.
While a good environment cannot contribute much toward really overcoming the
character handicaps of a base heredity, a bad environment can very effectively
spoil an excellent inheritance, at least during the younger years of life. Good
social environment and proper education are indispensable soil and atmosphere
for getting the most out of a good inheritance.

                                top of page - 849

The death of Abel became known to his parents when his dogs brought the flocks
home without their master. To Adam and Eve, Cain was fast becoming the grim
reminder of their folly, and they encouraged him in his decision to leave the
garden.

Cain's life in Mesopotamia had not been exactly happy since he was in such a
peculiar way symbolic of the default. It was not that his associates were
unkind to him, but he had not been unaware of their subconscious resentment of
his presence. But Cain knew that, since he bore no tribal mark, he would be
killed by the first neighboring tribesmen who might chance to meet him. Fear,
and some remorse, led him to repent. Cain had never been indwelt by an
Adjuster, had always been defiant of the family discipline and disdainful of
his father's religion. But he now went to Eve, his mother, and asked for
spiritual help and guidance, and when he honestly sought divine assistance, an
Adjuster indwelt him. And this Adjuster, dwelling within and looking out, gave
Cain a distinct advantage of superiority which classed him with the greatly
feared tribe of Adam.

And so Cain departed for the land of Nod, east of the second Eden. He became a
great leader among one group of his father's people and did, to a certain
degree, fulfill the predictions of Serapatatia, for he did promote peace
between this division of the Nodites and the Adamites throughout his lifetime.
Cain married Remona, his distant cousin, and their first son, Enoch, became the
head of the Elamite Nodites. And for hundreds of years the Elamites and the
Adamites continued to be at peace.

3. LIFE IN MESOPOTAMIA

As time passed in the second garden, the consequences of default became
increasingly apparent. Adam and Eve greatly missed their former home of beauty
and tranquillity as well as their children who had been deported to Edentia. It
was indeed pathetic to observe this magnificent couple reduced to the status of
the common flesh of the realm; but they bore their diminished estate with grace
and fortitude.

Adam wisely spent most of the time training his children and their associates
in civil administration, educational methods, and religious devotions. Had it
not been for this foresight, pandemonium would have broken loose upon his
death. As it was, the death of Adam made little difference in the conduct of
the affairs of his people. But long before Adam and Eve passed away, they
recognized that their children and followers had gradually learned to forget
the days of their glory in Eden. And it was better for the majority of their
followers that they did forget the grandeur of Eden; they were not so likely to
experience undue dissatisfaction with their less fortunate environment.

The civil rulers of the Adamites were derived hereditarily from the sons of the
first garden. Adam's first son, Adamson (Adam ben Adam), founded a secondary
center of the violet race to the north of the second Eden. Adam's second son,
Eveson, became a masterly leader and administrator; he was the great helper of
his father. Eveson lived not quite so long as Adam, and his eldest son, Jansad,
became the successor of Adam as the head of the Adamite tribes.

The religious rulers, or priesthood, originated with Seth, the eldest surviving
son of Adam and Eve born in the second garden. He was born one hundred and

                                top of page - 850

twenty-nine years after Adam's arrival on Urantia. Seth became absorbed in the
work of improving the spiritual status of his father's people, becoming the
head of the new priesthood of the second garden. His son, Enos, founded the new
order of worship, and his grandson, Kenan, instituted the foreign missionary
service to the surrounding tribes, near and far.

The Sethite priesthood was a threefold undertaking, embracing religion, health,
and education. The priests of this order were trained to officiate at religious
ceremonies, to serve as physicians and sanitary inspectors, and to act as
teachers in the schools of the garden.

Adam's caravan had carried the seeds and bulbs of hundreds of plants and
cereals of the first garden with them to the land between the rivers; they also
had brought along extensive herds and some of all the domesticated animals.
Because of this they possessed great advantages over the surrounding tribes.
They enjoyed many of the benefits of the previous culture of the original
Garden.

Up to the time of leaving the first garden, Adam and his family had always
subsisted on fruits, cereals, and nuts. On the way to Mesopotamia they had, for
the first time, partaken of herbs and vegetables. The eating of meat was early
introduced into the second garden, but Adam and Eve never partook of flesh as a
part of their regular diet. Neither did Adamson nor Eveson nor the other
children of the first generation of the first garden become flesh eaters.

The Adamites greatly excelled the surrounding peoples in cultural achievement
and intellectual development. They produced the third alphabet and otherwise
laid the foundations for much that was the forerunner of modern art, science,
and literature. Here in the lands between the Tigris and Euphrates they
maintained the arts of writing, metalworking, pottery making, and weaving and
produced a type of architecture that was not excelled in thousands of years.

The home life of the violet peoples was, for their day and age, ideal. Children
were subjected to courses of training in agriculture, craftsmanship, and animal
husbandry or else were educated to perform the threefold duty of a Sethite: to
be priest, physician, and teacher.

And when thinking of the Sethite priesthood, do not confuse those high-minded
and noble teachers of health and religion, those true educators, with the
debased and commercial priesthoods of the later tribes and surrounding nations.
Their religious concepts of Deity and the universe were advanced and more or
less accurate, their health provisions were, for their time, excellent, and
their methods of education have never since been surpassed.

4. THE VIOLET RACE

Adam and Eve were the founders of the violet race of men, the ninth human race
to appear on Urantia. Adam and his offspring had blue eyes, and the violet
peoples were characterized by fair complexions and light hair color--yellow,
red, and brown.

Eve did not suffer pain in childbirth; neither did the early evolutionary
races. Only the mixed races produced by the union of evolutionary man with the
Nodites and later with the Adamites suffered the severe pangs of childbirth.

                                top of page - 851

Adam and Eve, like their brethren on Jerusem, were energized by dual nutrition,
subsisting on both food and light, supplemented by certain superphysical
energies unrevealed on Urantia. Their Urantia offspring did not inherit the
parental endowment of energy intake and light circulation. They had a single
circulation, the human type of blood sustenance. They were designedly mortal
though long-lived, albeit longevity gravitated toward the human norm with each
succeeding generation.

Adam and Eve and their first generation of children did not use the flesh of
animals for food. They subsisted wholly upon "the fruits of the trees." After
the first generation all of the descendants of Adam began to partake of dairy
products, but many of them continued to follow a nonflesh diet. Many of the
southern tribes with whom they later united were also nonflesh eaters. Later
on, most of these vegetarian tribes migrated to the east and survived as now
admixed in the peoples of India.

Both the physical and spiritual visions of Adam and Eve were far superior to
those of the present-day peoples. Their special senses were much more acute,
and they were able to see the midwayers and the angelic hosts, the
Melchizedeks, and the fallen Prince Caligastia, who several times came to
confer with his noble successor. They retained the ability to see these
celestial beings for over one hundred years after the default. These special
senses were not so acutely present in their children and tended to diminish
with each succeeding generation.

The Adamic children were usually Adjuster indwelt since they all possessed
undoubted survival capacity. These superior offspring were not so subject to
fear as the children of evolution. So much of fear persists in the present-day
races of Urantia because your ancestors received so little of Adam's life
plasm, owing to the early miscarriage of the plans for racial physical uplift.

The body cells of the Material Sons and their progeny are far more resistant to
disease than are those of the evolutionary beings indigenous to the planet. The
body cells of the native races are akin to the living disease-producing
microscopic and ultramicroscopic organisms of the realm. These facts explain
why the Urantia peoples must do so much by way of scientific effort to
withstand so many physical disorders. You would be far more disease resistant
if your races carried more of the Adamic life.

After becoming established in the second garden on the Euphrates, Adam elected
to leave behind as much of his life plasm as possible to benefit the world
after his death. Accordingly, Eve was made the head of a commission of twelve
on race improvement, and before Adam died this commission had selected 1,682 of
the highest type of women on Urantia, and these women were impregnated with the
Adamic life plasm. Their children all grew up to maturity except 112, so that
the world, in this way, was benefited by the addition of 1,570 superior men and
women. Though these candidate mothers were selected from all the surrounding
tribes and represented most of the races on earth, the majority were chosen
from the highest strains of the Nodites, and they constituted the early
beginnings of the mighty Andite race. These children were born and reared in
the tribal surroundings of their respective mothers.

5. DEATH OF ADAM AND EVE

Not long after the establishment of the second Eden, Adam and Eve were duly
informed that their repentance was acceptable, and that, while they were

                                top of page - 852

doomed to suffer the fate of the mortals of their world, they should certainly
become eligible for admission to the ranks of the sleeping survivors of
Urantia. They fully believed this gospel of resurrection and rehabilitation
which the Melchizedeks so touchingly proclaimed to them. Their transgression
had been an error of judgment and not the sin of conscious and deliberate
rebellion.

Adam and Eve did not, as citizens of Jerusem, have Thought Adjusters, nor were
they Adjuster indwelt when they functioned on Urantia in the first garden. But
shortly after their reduction to mortal status they became conscious of a new
presence within them and awakened to the realization that human status coupled
with sincere repentance had made it possible for Adjusters to indwell them. It
was this knowledge of being Adjuster indwelt that greatly heartened Adam and
Eve throughout the remainder of their lives; they knew that they had failed as
Material Sons of Satania, but they also knew that the Paradise career was still
open to them as ascending sons of the universe.

Adam knew about the dispensational resurrection which occurred simultaneously
with his arrival on the planet, and he believed that he and his companion would
probably be repersonalized in connection with the advent of the next order of
sonship. He did not know that Michael, the sovereign of this universe was so
soon to appear on Urantia; he expected that the next Son to arrive would be of
the Avonal order. Even so, it was always a comfort to Adam and Eve, as well as
something difficult for them to understand, to ponder the only personal message
they ever received from Michael. This message, among other expressions of
friendship and comfort, said: "I have given consideration to the circumstances
of your default, I have remembered the desire of your hearts ever to be loyal
to my Father's will, and you will be called from the embrace of mortal slumber
when I come to Urantia if the subordinate Sons of my realm do not send for you
before that time."

And this was a great mystery to Adam and Eve. They could comprehend the veiled
promise of a possible special resurrection in this message, and such a
possibility greatly cheered them, but they could not grasp the meaning of the
intimation that they might rest until the time of a resurrection associated
with Michael's personal appearance on Urantia. And so the Edenic pair always
proclaimed that a Son of God would sometime come, and they communicated to
their loved ones the belief, at least the longing hope, that the world of their
blunders and sorrows might possibly be the realm whereon the ruler of this
universe would elect to function as the Paradise bestowal Son. It seemed too
good to be true, but Adam did entertain the thought that strife-torn Urantia
might, after all, turn out to be the most fortunate world in the system of
Satania, the envied planet of all Nebadon.

Adam lived for 530 years; he died of what might be termed old age. His physical
mechanism simply wore out; the process of disintegration gradually gained on
the process of repair, and the inevitable end came. Eve had died nineteen years
previously of a weakened heart. They were both buried in the center of the
temple of divine service which had been built in accordance with their plans
soon after the wall of the colony had been completed. And this was the origin
of the practice of burying noted and pious men and women under the floors of
the places of worship.

The supermaterial government of Urantia, under the direction of the
Melchizedeks, continued, but direct physical contact with the evolutionary
races had

                                top of page - 853

been severed. From the distant days of the arrival of the corporeal staff of
the Planetary Prince, down through the times of Van and Amadon to the arrival
of Adam and Eve, physical representatives of the universe government had been
stationed on the planet. But with the Adamic default this regime, extending
over a period of more than four hundred and fifty thousand years, came to an
end. In the spiritual spheres, angelic helpers continued to struggle in
conjunction with the Thought Adjusters, both working heroically for the salvage
of the individual; but no comprehensive plan for far-reaching world welfare was
promulgated to the mortals of earth until the arrival of Machiventa
Melchizedek, in the times of Abraham, who, with the power, patience, and
authority of a Son of God, did lay the foundations for the further uplift and
spiritual rehabilitation of unfortunate Urantia.

Misfortune has not, however, been the sole lot of Urantia; this planet has also
been the most fortunate in the local universe of Nebadon. Urantians should
count it all gain if the blunders of their ancestors and the mistakes of their
early world rulers so plunged the planet into such a hopeless state of
confusion, all the more confounded by evil and sin, that this very background
of darkness should so appeal to Michael of Nebadon that he selected this world
as the arena wherein to reveal the loving personality of the Father in heaven.
It is not that Urantia needed a Creator Son to set its tangled affairs in
order; it is rather that the evil and sin on Urantia afforded the Creator Son a
more striking background against which to reveal the matchless love, mercy, and
patience of the Paradise Father.

6. SURVIVAL OF ADAM AND EVE

Adam and Eve went to their mortal rest with strong faith in the promises made
to them by the Melchizedeks that they would sometime awake from the sleep of
death to resume life on the mansion worlds, worlds all so familiar to them in
the days preceding their mission in the material flesh of the violet race on
Urantia.

They did not long rest in the oblivion of the unconscious sleep of the mortals
of the realm. On the third day after Adam's death, the second following his
reverent burial, the orders of Lanaforge, sustained by the acting Most High of
Edentia and concurred in by the Union of Days on Salvington, acting for
Michael, were placed in Gabriel's hands, directing the special roll call of the
distinguished survivors of the Adamic default on Urantia. And in accordance
with this mandate of special resurrection, number twenty-six of the Urantia
series, Adam and Eve were repersonalized and reassembled in the resurrection
halls of the mansion worlds of Satania together with 1,316 of their associates
in the experience of the first garden. Many other loyal souls had already been
translated at the time of Adam's arrival, which was attended by a
dispensational adjudication of both the sleeping survivors and of the living
qualified ascenders.

Adam and Eve quickly passed through the worlds of progressive ascension until
they attained citizenship on Jerusem, once again to be residents of the planet
of their origin but this time as members of a different order of universe
personalities. They left Jerusem as permanent citizens--Sons of God; they
returned as ascendant citizens--sons of man. They were immediately attached to
the Urantia service on the system capital, later being assigned membership

                                top of page - 854

among the four and twenty counselors who constitute the present
advisory-control body of Urantia.

And thus ends the story of the Planetary Adam and Eve of Urantia, a story of
trial, tragedy, and triumph, at least personal triumph for your well-meaning
but deluded Material Son and Daughter and undoubtedly, in the end, a story of
ultimate triumph for their world and its rebellion-tossed and evil-harassed
inhabitants. When all is summed up, Adam and Eve made a mighty contribution to
the speedy civilization and accelerated biologic progress of the human race.
They left a great culture on earth, but it was not possible for such an
advanced civilization to survive in the face of the early dilution and the
eventual submergence of the Adamic inheritance. It is the people who make a
civilization; civilization does not make the people.

[Presented by Solonia, the seraphic "voice in the Garden."]

                                top of page - 855

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³  The Default Of  ³    The Midway     ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³       ...        ³      Crea...      ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
