          Urantia Book Paper 78 The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                                      ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Paper 78 The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE second Eden was the cradle of civilization for almost thirty thousand
years. Here in Mesopotamia the Adamic peoples held forth, sending out their
progeny to the ends of the earth, and latterly, as amalgamated with the Nodite
and Sangik tribes, were known as the Andites. From this region went those men
and women who initiated the doings of historic times and who have so enormously
accelerated cultural progress on Urantia.

This paper depicts the planetary history of the violet race, beginning soon
after the default of Adam, about 35,000 B.C., and extending down through its
amalgamation with the Nodite and Sangik races, about 15,000 B.C., to form the
Andite peoples and on to its final disappearance from the Mesopotamian
homelands, about 2000 B.C.

1. RACIAL AND CULTURAL DISTRIBUTION

Although the minds and morals of the races were at a low level at the time of
Adam's arrival, physical evolution had gone on quite unaffected by the
exigencies of the Caligastia rebellion. Adam's contribution to the biologic
status of the races, notwithstanding the partial failure of the undertaking,
enormously upstepped the people of Urantia.

Adam and Eve also contributed much that was of value to the social, moral, and
intellectual progress of mankind; civilization was immensely quickened by the
presence of their offspring. But thirty-five thousand years ago the world at
large possessed little culture. Certain centers of civilization existed here
and there, but most of Urantia languished in savagery. Racial and cultural
distribution was as follows:

1. The violet race--Adamites and Adamsonites. The chief center of Adamite
culture was in the second garden, located in the triangle of the Tigris and
Euphrates rivers; this was indeed the cradle of Occidental and Indian
civilizations. The secondary or northern center of the violet race was the
Adamsonite headquarters, situated east of the southern shore of the Caspian Sea
near the Kopet mountains. From these two centers there went forth to the
surrounding lands the culture and life plasm which so immediately quickened all
the races.

2. Pre-Sumerians and other Nodites. There were also present in Mesopotamia,
near the mouth of the rivers, remnants of the ancient culture of the days of
Dalamatia. With the passing millenniums, this group became thoroughly admixed
with the Adamites to the north, but they never entirely lost their Nodite
traditions. Various other Nodite groups that had settled in the Levant were, in
general, absorbed by the later expanding violet race.

                                top of page - 869

3. The Andonites maintained five or six fairly representative settlements to
the north and east of the Adamson headquarters. They were also scattered
throughout Turkestan, while isolated islands of them persisted throughout
Eurasia, especially in mountainous regions. These aborigines still held the
northlands of the Eurasian continent, together with Iceland and Greenland, but
they had long since been driven from the plains of Europe by the blue man and
from the river valleys of farther Asia by the expanding yellow race.

4. The red man occupied the Americas, having been driven out of Asia over fifty
thousand years before the arrival of Adam.

5. The yellow race. The Chinese peoples were well established in control of
eastern Asia. Their most advanced settlements were situated to the northwest of
modern China in regions bordering on Tibet.

6. The blue race. The blue men were scattered all over Europe, but their better
centers of culture were situated in the then fertile valleys of the
Mediterranean basin and in northwestern Europe. Neanderthal absorption had
greatly retarded the culture of the blue man, but he was otherwise the most
aggressive, adventurous, and exploratory of all the evolutionary peoples of
Eurasia.

7. Pre-Dravidian India. The complex mixture of races in India--embracing every
race on earth, but especially the green, orange, and black--maintained a
culture slightly above that of the outlying regions.

8. The Sahara civilization. The superior elements of the indigo race had their
most progressive settlements in what is now the great Sahara desert. This
indigo-black group carried extensive strains of the submerged orange and green
races.

9. The Mediterranean basin. The most highly blended race outside of India
occupied what is now the Mediterranean basin. Here blue men from the north and
Saharans from the south met and mingled with Nodites and Adamites from the
east.

This was the picture of the world prior to the beginnings of the great
expansions of the violet race, about twenty-five thousand years ago. The hope
of future civilization lay in the second garden between the rivers of
Mesopotamia. Here in southwestern Asia there existed the potential of a great
civilization, the possibility of the spread to the world of the ideas and
ideals which had been salvaged from the days of Dalamatia and the times of
Eden.

Adam and Eve had left behind a limited but potent progeny, and the celestial
observers on Urantia waited anxiously to find out how these descendants of the
erring Material Son and Daughter would acquit themselves.

2. THE ADAMITES IN THE SECOND GARDEN

For thousands of years the sons of Adam labored along the rivers of
Mesopotamia, working out their irrigation and flood-control problems to the
south, perfecting their defenses to the north, and attempting to preserve their
traditions of the glory of the first Eden.

The heroism displayed in the leadership of the second garden constitutes one of
the amazing and inspiring epics of Urantia's history. These splendid souls
never wholly lost sight of the purpose of the Adamic mission, and therefore did
they valiantly fight off the influences of the surrounding and inferior tribes

                                top of page - 870

while they willingly sent forth their choicest sons and daughters in a steady
stream as emissaries to the races of earth. Sometimes this expansion was
depleting to the home culture, but always these superior peoples would
rehabilitate themselves.

The civilization, society, and cultural status of the Adamites were far above
the general level of the evolutionary races of Urantia. Only among the old
settlements of Van and Amadon and the Adamsonites was there a civilization in
any way comparable. But the civilization of the second Eden was an artificial
structure--it had not been evolved--and was therefore doomed to deteriorate
until it reached a natural evolutionary level.

Adam left a great intellectual and spiritual culture behind him, but it was not
advanced in mechanical appliances since every civilization is limited by
available natural resources, inherent genius, and sufficient leisure to insure
inventive fruition. The civilization of the violet race was predicated on the
presence of Adam and on the traditions of the first Eden. After Adam's death
and as these traditions grew dim through the passing millenniums, the cultural
level of the Adamites steadily deteriorated until it reached a state of
reciprocal balance with the status of the surrounding peoples and the naturally
evolving cultural capacities of the violet race.

But the Adamites were a real nation around 19,000 B.C., numbering four and a
half million, and already they had poured forth millions of their progeny into
the surrounding peoples.

3. EARLY EXPANSIONS OF THE ADAMITES

The violet race retained the Edenic traditions of peacefulness for many
millenniums, which explains their long delay in making territorial conquests.
When they suffered from population pressure, instead of making war to secure
more territory, they sent forth their excess inhabitants as teachers to the
other races. The cultural effect of these earlier migrations was not enduring,
but the absorption of the Adamite teachers, traders, and explorers was
biologically invigorating to the surrounding peoples.

Some of the Adamites early journeyed westward to the valley of the Nile; others
penetrated eastward into Asia, but these were a minority. The mass movement of
the later days was extensively northward and thence westward. It was, in the
main, a gradual but unremitting northward push, the greater number making their
way north and then circling westward around the Caspian Sea into Europe.

About twenty-five thousand years ago many of the purer elements of the Adamites
were well on their northern trek. And as they penetrated northward, they became
less and less Adamic until, by the times of their occupation of Turkestan, they
had become thoroughly admixed with the other races, particularly the Nodites.
Very few of the pure-line violet peoples ever penetrated far into Europe or
Asia.

From about 30,000 to 10,000 B.C. epoch-making racial mixtures were taking place
throughout southwestern Asia. The highland inhabitants of Turkestan were a
virile and vigorous people. To the northwest of India much of the culture of
the days of Van persisted. Still to the north of these settlements the best of
the early Andonites had been preserved. And both of these superior races of
culture and character were absorbed by the northward-moving Adamites. This

                                top of page - 871

amalgamation led to the adoption of many new ideas; it facilitated the progress
of civilization and greatly advanced all phases of art, science, and social
culture.

As the period of the early Adamic migrations ended, about 15,000 B.C., there
were already more descendants of Adam in Europe and central Asia than anywhere
else in the world, even than in Mesopotamia. The European blue races had been
largely infiltrated. The lands now called Russia and Turkestan were occupied
throughout their southern stretches by a great reservoir of the Adamites mixed
with Nodites, Andonites, and red and yellow Sangiks. Southern Europe and the
Mediterranean fringe were occupied by a mixed race of Andonite and Sangik
peoples--orange, green, and indigo--with a sprinkling of the Adamite stock.
Asia Minor and the central-eastern European lands were held by tribes that were
predominantly Andonite.

A blended colored race, about this time greatly reinforced by arrivals from
Mesopotamia, held forth in Egypt and prepared to take over the disappearing
culture of the Euphrates valley. The black peoples were moving farther south in
Africa and, like the red race, were virtually isolated.

The Saharan civilization had been disrupted by drought and that of the
Mediterranean basin by flood. The blue races had, as yet, failed to develop an
advanced culture. The Andonites were still scattered over the Arctic and
central Asian regions. The green and orange races had been exterminated as
such. The indigo race was moving south in Africa, there to begin its slow but
long-continued racial deterioration.

The peoples of India lay stagnant, with a civilization that was unprogressing;
the yellow man was consolidating his holdings in central Asia; the brown man
had not yet begun his civilization on the near-by islands of the Pacific.

These racial distributions, associated with extensive climatic changes, set the
world stage for the inauguration of the Andite era of Urantia civilization.
These early migrations extended over a period of ten thousand years, from
25,000 to 15,000 B.C. The later or Andite migrations extended from about 15,000
to 6000 B.C.

It took so long for the earlier waves of Adamites to pass over Eurasia that
their culture was largely lost in transit. Only the later Andites moved with
sufficient speed to retain the Edenic culture at any great distance from
Mesopotamia.

4. THE ANDITES

The Andite races were the primary blends of the pure-line violet race and the
Nodites plus the evolutionary peoples. In general, Andites should be thought of
as having a far greater percentage of Adamic blood than the modern races. In
the main, the term Andite is used to designate those peoples whose racial
inheritance was from one-eighth to one-sixth violet. Modern Urantians, even the
northern white races, contain much less than this percentage of the blood of
Adam.

The earliest Andite peoples took origin in the regions adjacent to Mesopotamia
more than twenty-five thousand years ago and consisted of a blend of the
Adamites and Nodites. The second garden was surrounded by concentric circles of
diminishing violet blood, and it was on the periphery of this racial melting
pot that the Andite race was born. Later on, when the migrating Adamites

                                top of page - 872

and Nodites entered the then fertile regions of Turkestan, they soon blended
with the superior inhabitants, and the resultant race mixture extended the
Andite type northward.

The Andites were the best all-round human stock to appear on Urantia since the
days of the pure-line violet peoples. They embraced most of the highest types
of the surviving remnants of the Adamite and Nodite races and, later, some of
the best strains of the yellow, blue, and green men.

These early Andites were not Aryan; they were pre-Aryan. They were not white;
they were pre-white. They were neither an Occidental nor an Oriental people.
But it is Andite inheritance that gives to the polyglot mixture of the
so-called white races that generalized homogeneity which has been called
Caucasoid.

The purer strains of the violet race had retained the Adamic tradition of
peace-seeking, which explains why the earlier race movements had been more in
the nature of peaceful migrations. But as the Adamites united with the Nodite
stocks, who were by this time a belligerent race, their Andite descendants
became, for their day and age, the most skillful and sagacious militarists ever
to live on Urantia. Thenceforth the movements of the Mesopotamians grew
increasingly military in character and became more akin to actual conquests.

These Andites were adventurous; they had roving dispositions. An increase of
either Sangik or Andonite stock tended to stabilize them. But even so, their
later descendants never stopped until they had circumnavigated the globe and
discovered the last remote continent.

5. THE ANDITE MIGRATIONS

For twenty thousand years the culture of the second garden persisted, but it
experienced a steady decline until about 15,000 B.C., when the regeneration of
the Sethite priesthood and the leadership of Amosad inaugurated a brilliant
era. The massive waves of civilization which later spread over Eurasia
immediately followed the great renaissance of the Garden consequent upon the
extensive union of the Adamites with the surrounding mixed Nodites to form the
Andites.

These Andites inaugurated new advances throughout Eurasia and North Africa.
From Mesopotamia through Sinkiang the Andite culture was dominant, and the
steady migration toward Europe was continuously offset by new arrivals from
Mesopotamia. But it is hardly correct to speak of the Andites as a race in
Mesopotamia proper until near the beginning of the terminal migrations of the
mixed descendants of Adam. By this time even the races in the second garden had
become so blended that they could no longer be considered Adamites.

The civilization of Turkestan was constantly being revived and refreshed by the
newcomers from Mesopotamia, especially by the later Andite cavalrymen. The
so-called Aryan mother tongue was in process of formation in the highlands of
Turkestan; it was a blend of the Andonic dialect of that region with the
language of the Adamsonites and later Andites. Many modern languages are
derived from this early speech of these central Asian tribes who conquered
Europe, India, and the upper stretches of the Mesopotamian plains. This ancient
language gave the Occidental tongues all of that similarity which is called
Aryan.

By 12,000 B.C. three quarters of the Andite stock of the world was resident in
northern and eastern Europe, and when the later and final exodus from

                                top of page - 873

Mesopotamia took place, sixty-five per cent of these last waves of emigration
entered Europe.

The Andites not only migrated to Europe but to northern China and India, while
many groups penetrated to the ends of the earth as missionaries, teachers, and
traders. They contributed considerably to the northern groups of the Saharan
Sangik peoples. But only a few teachers and traders ever penetrated farther
south in Africa than the headwaters of the Nile. Later on, mixed Andites and
Egyptians followed down both the east and west coasts of Africa well below the
equator, but they did not reach Madagascar.

These Andites were the so-called Dravidian and later Aryan conquerors of India;
and their presence in central Asia greatly upstepped the ancestors of the
Turanians. Many of this race journeyed to China by way of both Sinkiang and
Tibet and added desirable qualities to the later Chinese stocks. From time to
time small groups made their way into Japan, Formosa, the East Indies, and
southern China, though very few entered southern China by the coastal route.

One hundred and thirty-two of this race, embarking in a fleet of small boats
from Japan, eventually reached South America and by intermarriage with the
natives of the Andes established the ancestry of the later rulers of the Incas.
They crossed the Pacific by easy stages, tarrying on the many islands they
found along the way. The islands of the Polynesian group were both more
numerous and larger then than now, and these Andite sailors, together with some
who followed them, biologically modified the native groups in transit. Many
flourishing centers of civilization grew up on these now submerged lands as a
result of Andite penetration. Easter Island was long a religious and
administrative center of one of these lost groups. But of the Andites who
navigated the Pacific of long ago none but the one hundred and thirty-two ever
reached the mainland of the Americas.

The migratory conquests of the Andites continued on down to their final
dispersions, from 8000 to 6000 B.C. As they poured out of Mesopotamia, they
continuously depleted the biologic reserves of their homelands while markedly
strengthening the surrounding peoples. And to every nation to which they
journeyed, they contributed humor, art, adventure, music, and manufacture. They
were skillful domesticators of animals and expert agriculturists. For the time
being, at least, their presence usually improved the religious beliefs and
moral practices of the older races. And so the culture of Mesopotamia quietly
spread out over Europe, India, China, northern Africa, and the Pacific Islands.

6. THE LAST ANDITE DISPERSIONS

The last three waves of Andites poured out of Mesopotamia between 8000 and 6000
B.C. These three great waves of culture were forced out of Mesopotamia by the
pressure of the hill tribes to the east and the harassment of the plainsmen of
the west. The inhabitants of the Euphrates valley and adjacent territory went
forth in their final exodus in several directions:

Sixty-five per cent entered Europe by the Caspian Sea route to conquer and
amalgamate with the newly appearing white races--the blend of the blue men and
the earlier Andites.

Ten per cent, including a large group of the Sethite priests, moved eastward
through the Elamite highlands to the Iranian plateau and Turkestan. Many of

                                top of page - 874

their descendants were later driven into India with their Aryan brethren from
the regions to the north.

Ten per cent of the Mesopotamians turned eastward in their northern trek,
entering Sinkiang, where they blended with the Andite-yellow inhabitants. The
majority of the able offspring of this racial union later entered China and
contributed much to the immediate improvement of the northern division of the
yellow race.

Ten per cent of these fleeing Andites made their way across Arabia and entered
Egypt.

Five per cent of the Andites, the very superior culture of the coastal district
about the mouths of the Tigris and Euphrates who had kept themselves free from
intermarriage with the inferior neighboring tribesmen, refused to leave their
homes. This group represented the survival of many superior Nodite and Adamite
strains.

The Andites had almost entirely evacuated this region by 6000 B.C., though
their descendants, largely mixed with the surrounding Sangik races and the
Andonites of Asia Minor, were there to give battle to the northern and eastern
invaders at a much later date.

The cultural age of the second garden was terminated by the increasing
infiltration of the surrounding inferior stocks. Civilization moved westward to
the Nile and the Mediterranean islands, where it continued to thrive and
advance long after its fountainhead in Mesopotamia had deteriorated. And this
unchecked influx of inferior peoples prepared the way for the later conquest of
all Mesopotamia by the northern barbarians who drove out the residual strains
of ability. Even in later years the cultured residue still resented the
presence of these ignorant and uncouth invaders.

7. THE FLOODS IN MESOPOTAMIA

The river dwellers were accustomed to rivers overflowing their banks at certain
seasons; these periodic floods were annual events in their lives. But new
perils threatened the valley of Mesopotamia as a result of progressive geologic
changes to the north.

For thousands of years after the submergence of the first Eden the mountains
about the eastern coast of the Mediterranean and those to the northwest and
northeast of Mesopotamia continued to rise. This elevation of the highlands was
greatly accelerated about 5000 B.C., and this, together with greatly increased
snowfall on the northern mountains, caused unprecedented floods each spring
throughout the Euphrates valley. These spring floods grew increasingly worse so
that eventually the inhabitants of the river regions were driven to the eastern
highlands. For almost a thousand years scores of cities were practically
deserted because of these extensive deluges.

Almost five thousand years later, as the Hebrew priests in Babylonian captivity
sought to trace the Jewish people back to Adam, they found great difficulty in
piecing the story together; and it occurred to one of them to abandon the
effort, to let the whole world drown in its wickedness at the time of Noah's
flood, and thus to be in a better position to trace Abraham right back to one
of the three surviving sons of Noah.

                                top of page - 875

The traditions of a time when water covered the whole of the earth's surface
are universal. Many races harbor the story of a world-wide flood some time
during past ages. The Biblical story of Noah, the ark, and the flood is an
invention of the Hebrew priesthood during the Babylonian captivity. There has
never been a universal flood since life was established on Urantia. The only
time the surface of the earth was completely covered by water was during those
Archeozoic ages before the land had begun to appear.

But Noah really lived; he was a wine maker of Aram, a river settlement near
Erech. He kept a written record of the days of the river's rise from year to
year. He brought much ridicule upon himself by going up and down the river
valley advocating that all houses be built of wood, boat fashion, and that the
family animals be put on board each night as the flood season approached. He
would go to the neighboring river settlements every year and warn them that in
so many days the floods would come. Finally a year came in which the annual
floods were greatly augmented by unusually heavy rainfall so that the sudden
rise of the waters wiped out the entire village; only Noah and his immediate
family were saved in their houseboat.

These floods completed the disruption of Andite civilization. With the ending
of this period of deluge, the second garden was no more. Only in the south and
among the Sumerians did any trace of the former glory remain.

The remnants of this, one of the oldest civilizations, are to be found in these
regions of Mesopotamia and to the northeast and northwest. But still older
vestiges of the days of Dalamatia exist under the waters of the Persian Gulf,
and the first Eden lies submerged under the eastern end of the Mediterranean
Sea.

8. THE SUMERIANS--LAST OF THE ANDITES

When the last Andite dispersion broke the biologic backbone of Mesopotamian
civilization, a small minority of this superior race remained in their homeland
near the mouths of the rivers. These were the Sumerians, and by 6000 B.C. they
had become largely Andite in extraction, though their culture was more
exclusively Nodite in character, and they clung to the ancient traditions of
Dalamatia. Nonetheless, these Sumerians of the coastal regions were the last of
the Andites in Mesopotamia. But the races of Mesopotamia were already
thoroughly blended by this late date, as is evidenced by the skull types found
in the graves of this era.

It was during the floodtimes that Susa so greatly prospered. The first and
lower city was inundated so that the second or higher town succeeded the lower
as the headquarters for the peculiar artcrafts of that day. With the later
diminution of these floods, Ur became the center of the pottery industry. About
seven thousand years ago Ur was on the Persian Gulf, the river deposits having
since built up the land to its present limits. These settlements suffered less
from the floods because of better controlling works and the widening mouths of
the rivers.

The peaceful grain growers of the Euphrates and Tigris valleys had long been
harassed by the raids of the barbarians of Turkestan and the Iranian plateau.
But now a concerted invasion of the Euphrates valley was brought about by the
increasing drought of the highland pastures. And this invasion was all the

                                top of page - 876

more serious because these surrounding herdsmen and hunters possessed large
numbers of tamed horses. It was the possession of horses which gave them a
tremendous military advantage over their rich neighbors to the south. In a
short time they overran all Mesopotamia, driving forth the last waves of
culture which spread out over all of Europe, western Asia, and northern Africa.

These conquerors of Mesopotamia carried in their ranks many of the better
Andite strains of the mixed northern races of Turkestan, including some of the
Adamson stock. These less advanced but more vigorous tribes from the north
quickly and willingly assimilated the residue of the civilization of
Mesopotamia and presently developed into those mixed peoples found in the
Euphrates valley at the beginning of historic annals. They quickly revived many
phases of the passing civilization of Mesopotamia, adopting the arts of the
valley tribes and much of the culture of the Sumerians. They even sought to
build a third tower of Babel and later adopted the term as their national name.

When these barbarian cavalrymen from the northeast overran the whole Euphrates
valley, they did not conquer the remnants of the Andites who dwelt about the
mouth of the river on the Persian Gulf. These Sumerians were able to defend
themselves because of superior intelligence, better weapons, and their
extensive system of military canals, which were an adjunct to their irrigation
scheme of interconnecting pools. They were a united people because they had a
uniform group religion. They were thus able to maintain their racial and
national integrity long after their neighbors to the northwest were broken up
into isolated city-states. No one of these city groups was able to overcome the
united Sumerians.

And the invaders from the north soon learned to trust and prize these
peace-loving Sumerians as able teachers and administrators. They were greatly
respected and sought after as teachers of art and industry, as directors of
commerce, and as civil rulers by all peoples to the north and from Egypt in the
west to India in the east.

After the breakup of the early Sumerian confederation the later city-states
were ruled by the apostate descendants of the Sethite priests. Only when these
priests made conquests of the neighboring cities did they call themselves
kings. The later city kings failed to form powerful confederations before the
days of Sargon because of deity jealousy. Each city believed its municipal god
to be superior to all other gods, and therefore they refused to subordinate
themselves to a common leader.

The end of this long period of the weak rule of the city priests was terminated
by Sargon, the priest of Kish, who proclaimed himself king and started out on
the conquest of the whole of Mesopotamia and adjoining lands. And for the time,
this ended the city-states, priest-ruled and priest-ridden, each city having
its own municipal god and its own ceremonial practices.

After the breakup of this Kish confederation there ensued a long period of
constant warfare between these valley cities for supremacy. And the rulership
variously shifted between Sumer, Akkad, Kish, Erech, Ur, and Susa.

About 2500 B.C. the Sumerians suffered severe reverses at the hands of the
northern Suites and Guites. Lagash, the Sumerian capital built on flood mounds,
fell. Erech held out for thirty years after the fall of Akkad. By the time of
the establishment of the rule of Hammurabi the Sumerians had become absorbed
into the ranks of the northern Semites, and the Mesopotamian Andites passed
from the pages of history.

                                top of page - 877

From 2500 to 2000 B.C. the nomads were on a rampage from the Atlantic to the
Pacific. The Nerites constituted the final eruption of the Caspian group of the
Mesopotamian descendants of the blended Andonite and Andite races. What the
barbarians failed to do to effect the ruination of Mesopotamia, subsequent
climatic changes succeeded in accomplishing.

And this is the story of the violet race after the days of Adam and of the fate
of their homeland between the Tigris and Euphrates. Their ancient civilization
finally fell due to the emigration of superior peoples and the immigration of
their inferior neighbors. But long before the barbarian cavalrymen conquered
the valley, much of the Garden culture had spread to Asia, Africa, and Europe,
there to produce the ferments which have resulted in the twentieth-century
civilization of Urantia.

[Presented by an Archangel of Nebadon.]

                                top of page - 878

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³    The Midway    ³      Andite       ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³     Crea...      ³    Expansio...    ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
