            Urantia Book Paper 80 Andite Expansion In The Occident
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                                      ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  Paper 80 Andite Expansion In The Occident

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

ALTHOUGH the European blue man did not of himself achieve a great cultural
civilization, he did supply the biologic foundation which, when its Adamized
strains were blended with the later Andite invaders, produced one of the most
potent stocks for the attainment of aggressive civilization ever to appear on
Urantia since the times of the violet race and their Andite successors.

The modern white peoples incorporate the surviving strains of the Adamic stock
which became admixed with the Sangik races, some red and yellow but more
especially the blue. There is a considerable percentage of the original
Andonite stock in all the white races and still more of the early Nodite
strains.

1. THE ADAMITES ENTER EUROPE

Before the last Andites were driven out of the Euphrates valley, many of their
brethren had entered Europe as adventurers, teachers, traders, and warriors.
During the earlier days of the violet race the Mediterranean trough was
protected by the Gibraltar isthmus and the Sicilian land bridge. Some of man's
very early maritime commerce was established on these inland lakes, where blue
men from the north and the Saharans from the south met Nodites and Adamites
from the east.

In the eastern trough of the Mediterranean the Nodites had established one of
their most extensive cultures and from these centers had penetrated somewhat
into southern Europe but more especially into northern Africa. The broad-headed
Nodite-Andonite Syrians very early introduced pottery and agriculture in
connection with their settlements on the slowly rising Nile delta. They also
imported sheep, goats, cattle, and other domesticated animals and brought in
greatly improved methods of metalworking, Syria then being the center of that
industry.

For more than thirty thousand years Egypt received a steady stream of
Mesopotamians, who brought along their art and culture to enrich that of the
Nile valley. But the ingress of large numbers of the Sahara peoples greatly
deteriorated the early civilization along the Nile so that Egypt reached its
lowest cultural level some fifteen thousand years ago.

But during earlier times there was little to hinder the westward migration of
the Adamites. The Sahara was an open grazing land overspread by herders and
agriculturists. These Saharans never engaged in manufacture, nor were they city
builders. They were an indigo-black group which carried extensive strains of
the extinct green and orange races. But they received a very limited amount of
the violet inheritance before the upthrust of land and the shifting water-laden
winds dispersed the remnants of this prosperous and peaceful civilization.

                                top of page - 890

Adam's blood has been shared with most of the human races, but some secured
more than others. The mixed races of India and the darker peoples of Africa
were not attractive to the Adamites. They would have mixed freely with the red
man had he not been far removed in the Americas, and they were kindly disposed
toward the yellow man, but he was likewise difficult of access in faraway Asia.
Therefore, when actuated by either adventure or altruism, or when driven out of
the Euphrates valley, they very naturally chose union with the blue races of
Europe.

The blue men, then dominant in Europe, had no religious practices which were
repulsive to the earlier migrating Adamites, and there was great sex attraction
between the violet and the blue races. The best of the blue men deemed it a
high honor to be permitted to mate with the Adamites. Every blue man
entertained the ambition of becoming so skillful and artistic as to win the
affection of some Adamite woman, and it was the highest aspiration of a
superior blue woman to receive the attentions of an Adamite.

Slowly these migrating sons of Eden united with the higher types of the blue
race, invigorating their cultural practices while ruthlessly exterminating the
lingering strains of Neanderthal stock. This technique of race blending,
combined with the elimination of inferior strains, produced a dozen or more
virile and progressive groups of superior blue men, one of which you have
denominated the Cro-Magnons.

For these and other reasons, not the least of which was more favorable paths of
migration, the early waves of Mesopotamian culture made their way almost
exclusively to Europe. And it was these circumstances that determined the
antecedents of modern European civilization.

2. CLIMATIC AND GEOLOGIC CHANGES

The early expansion of the violet race into Europe was cut short by certain
rather sudden climatic and geologic changes. With the retreat of the northern
ice fields the water-laden winds from the west shifted to the north, gradually
turning the great open pasture regions of Sahara into a barren desert. This
drought dispersed the smaller-statured brunets, dark-eyed but long-headed
dwellers of the great Sahara plateau.

The purer indigo elements moved southward to the forests of central Africa,
where they have ever since remained. The more mixed groups spread out in three
directions: The superior tribes to the west migrated to Spain and thence to
adjacent parts of Europe, forming the nucleus of the later Mediterranean
long-headed brunet races. The least progressive division to the east of the
Sahara plateau migrated to Arabia and thence through northern Mesopotamia and
India to faraway Ceylon. The central group moved north and east to the Nile
valley and into Palestine.

It is this secondary Sangik substratum that suggests a certain degree of
kinship among the modern peoples scattered from the Deccan through Iran,
Mesopotamia, and along both shores of the Mediterranean Sea.

About the time of these climatic changes in Africa, England separated from the
continent, and Denmark arose from the sea, while the isthmus of Gibraltar,
protecting the western basin of the Mediterranean, gave way as the result of an
earthquake, quickly raising this inland lake to the level of the Atlantic
Ocean.

                                top of page - 891

Presently the Sicilian land bridge submerged, creating one sea of the
Mediterranean and connecting it with the Atlantic Ocean. This cataclysm of
nature flooded scores of human settlements and occasioned the greatest loss of
life by flood in all the world's history.

This engulfment of the Mediterranean basin immediately curtailed the westward
movements of the Adamites, while the great influx of Saharans led them to seek
outlets for their increasing numbers to the north and east of Eden. As the
descendants of Adam journeyed northward from the valleys of the Tigris and
Euphrates, they encountered mountainous barriers and the then expanded Caspian
Sea. And for many generations the Adamites hunted, herded, and tilled the soil
around their settlements scattered throughout Turkestan. Slowly this
magnificent people extended their territory into Europe. But now the Adamites
enter Europe from the east and find the culture of the blue man thousands of
years behind that of Asia since this region has been almost entirely out of
touch with Mesopotamia.

3. THE CRO-MAGNOID BLUE MAN

The ancient centers of the culture of the blue man were located along all the
rivers of Europe, but only the Somme now flows in the same channel which it
followed during preglacial times.

While we speak of the blue man as pervading the European continent, there were
scores of racial types. Even thirty-five thousand years ago the European blue
races were already a highly blended people carrying strains of both red and
yellow, while on the Atlantic coastlands and in the regions of present-day
Russia they had absorbed a considerable amount of Andonite blood and to the
south were in contact with the Saharan peoples. But it would be fruitless to
attempt to enumerate the many racial groups.

The European civilization of this early post-Adamic period was a unique blend
of the vigor and art of the blue men with the creative imagination of the
Adamites. The blue men were a race of great vigor, but they greatly
deteriorated the cultural and spiritual status of the Adamites. It was very
difficult for the latter to impress their religion upon the Cro-Magnoids
because of the tendency of so many to cheat and to debauch the maidens. For ten
thousand years religion in Europe was at a low ebb as compared with the
developments in India and Egypt.

The blue men were perfectly honest in all their dealings and were wholly free
from the sexual vices of the mixed Adamites. They respected maidenhood, only
practicing polygamy when war produced a shortage of males.

These Cro-Magnon peoples were a brave and farseeing race. They maintained an
efficient system of child culture. Both parents participated in these labors,
and the services of the older children were fully utilized. Each child was
carefully trained in the care of the caves, in art, and in flint making. At an
early age the women were well versed in the domestic arts and in crude
agriculture, while the men were skilled hunters and courageous warriors.

The blue men were hunters, fishers, and food gatherers; they were expert
boatbuilders. They made stone axes, cut down trees, erected log huts, partly
below ground and roofed with hides. And there are peoples who still build
similar huts in Siberia. The southern Cro-Magnons generally lived in caves and
grottoes.

                                top of page - 892

It was not uncommon during the rigors of winter for their sentinels standing on
night guard at cave entrances to freeze to death. They had courage, but above
all they were artists; the Adamic mixture suddenly accelerated creative
imagination. The height of the blue man's art was about fifteen thousand years
ago, before the days when the darker-skinned races came north from Africa
through Spain.

About fifteen thousand years ago the Alpine forests were spreading extensively.
The European hunters were being driven to the river valleys and to the
seashores by the same climatic coercion that had turned the world's happy
hunting grounds into dry and barren deserts. As the rain winds shifted to the
north, the great open grazing lands of Europe became covered by forests. These
great and relatively sudden climatic modifications drove the races of Europe to
change from open-space hunters to herders, and in some measure to fishers and
tillers of the soil.

These changes, while resulting in cultural advances, produced certain biologic
retrogressions. During the previous hunting era the superior tribes had
intermarried with the higher types of war captives and had unvaryingly
destroyed those whom they deemed inferior. But as they commenced to establish
settlements and engage in agriculture and commerce, they began to save many of
the mediocre captives as slaves. And it was the progeny of these slaves that
subsequently so greatly deteriorated the whole Cro-Magnon type. This
retrogression of culture continued until it received a fresh impetus from the
east when the final and en masse invasion of the Mesopotamians swept over
Europe, quickly absorbing the Cro-Magnon type and culture and initiating the
civilization of the white races.

4. THE ANDITE INVASIONS OF EUROPE

While the Andites poured into Europe in a steady stream, there were seven major
invasions, the last arrivals coming on horseback in three great waves. Some
entered Europe by way of the islands of the Aegean and up the Danube valley,
but the majority of the earlier and purer strains migrated to northwestern
Europe by the northern route across the grazing lands of the Volga and the Don.

Between the third and fourth invasions a horde of Andonites entered Europe from
the north, having come from Siberia by way of the Russian rivers and the
Baltic. They were immediately assimilated by the northern Andite tribes.

The earlier expansions of the purer violet race were far more pacific than were
those of their later semimilitary and conquest-loving Andite descendants. The
Adamites were pacific; the Nodites were belligerent. The union of these stocks,
as later mingled with the Sangik races, produced the able, aggressive Andites
who made actual military conquests.

But the horse was the evolutionary factor which determined the dominance of the
Andites in the Occident. The horse gave the dispersing Andites the hitherto
nonexistent advantage of mobility, enabling the last groups of Andite
cavalrymen to progress quickly around the Caspian Sea to overrun all of Europe.
All previous waves of Andites had moved so slowly that they tended to
disintegrate at any great distance from Mesopotamia. But these later waves
moved so rapidly that they reached Europe as coherent groups, still retaining
some measure of higher culture.

                                top of page - 893

The whole inhabited world, outside of China and the Euphrates region, had made
very limited cultural progress for ten thousand years when the hard-riding
Andite horsemen made their appearance in the sixth and seventh millenniums
before Christ. As they moved westward across the Russian plains, absorbing the
best of the blue man and exterminating the worst, they became blended into one
people. These were the ancestors of the so-called Nordic races, the forefathers
of the Scandinavian, German, and Anglo-Saxon peoples.

It was not long before the superior blue strains had been fully absorbed by the
Andites throughout all northern Europe. Only in Lapland (and to a certain
extent in Brittany) did the older Andonites retain even a semblance of
identity.

5. THE ANDITE CONQUEST OF NORTHERN EUROPE

The tribes of northern Europe were being continuously reinforced and upstepped
by the steady stream of migrants from Mesopotamia through the Turkestan-south
Russian regions, and when the last waves of Andite cavalry swept over Europe,
there were already more men with Andite inheritance in that region than were to
be found in all the rest of the world.

For three thousand years the military headquarters of the northern Andites was
in Denmark. From this central point there went forth the successive waves of
conquest, which grew decreasingly Andite and increasingly white as the passing
centuries witnessed the final blending of the Mesopotamian conquerors with the
conquered peoples.

While the blue man had been absorbed in the north and eventually succumbed to
the white cavalry raiders who penetrated the south, the advancing tribes of the
mixed white race met with stubborn and protracted resistance from the
Cro-Magnons, but superior intelligence and ever-augmenting biologic reserves
enabled them to wipe the older race out of existence.

The decisive struggles between the white man and the blue man were fought out
in the valley of the Somme. Here, the flower of the blue race bitterly
contested the southward-moving Andites, and for over five hundred years these
Cro-Magnoids successfully defended their territories before succumbing to the
superior military strategy of the white invaders. Thor, the victorious
commander of the armies of the north in the final battle of the Somme, became
the hero of the northern white tribes and later on was revered as a god by some
of them.

The strongholds of the blue man which persisted longest were in southern
France, but the last great military resistance was overcome along the Somme.
The later conquest progressed by commercial penetration, population pressure
along the rivers, and by continued intermarriage with the superiors, coupled
with the ruthless extermination of the inferiors.

When the tribal council of the Andite elders had adjudged an inferior captive
to be unfit, he was, by elaborate ceremony, committed to the shaman priests,
who escorted him to the river and administered the rites of initiation to the
"happy hunting grounds"--lethal submergence. In this way the white invaders of
Europe exterminated all peoples encountered who were not quickly absorbed into
their own ranks, and thus did the blue man come to an end--and quickly.

The Cro-Magnoid blue man constituted the biologic foundation for the modern
European races, but they have survived only as absorbed by the later

                                top of page - 894

and virile conquerors of their homelands. The blue strain contributed many
sturdy traits and much physical vigor to the white races of Europe, but the
humor and imagination of the blended European peoples were derived from the
Andites. This Andite-blue union, resulting in the northern white races,
produced an immediate lapse of Andite civilization, a retardation of a
transient nature. Eventually, the latent superiority of these northern
barbarians manifested itself and culminated in present-day European
civilization.

By 5000 B.C. the evolving white races were dominant throughout all of northern
Europe, including northern Germany, northern France, and the British Isles.
Central Europe was for some time controlled by the blue man and the
round-headed Andonites. The latter were mainly situated in the Danube valley
and were never entirely displaced by the Andites.

6. THE ANDITES ALONG THE NILE

From the times of the terminal Andite migrations, culture declined in the
Euphrates valley, and the immediate center of civilization shifted to the
valley of the Nile. Egypt became the successor of Mesopotamia as the
headquarters of the most advanced group on earth.

The Nile valley began to suffer from floods shortly before the Mesopotamian
valleys but fared much better. This early setback was more than compensated by
the continuing stream of Andite immigrants, so that the culture of Egypt,
though really derived from the Euphrates region, seemed to forge ahead. But in
5000 B.C., during the flood period in Mesopotamia, there were seven distinct
groups of human beings in Egypt; all of them, save one, came from Mesopotamia.

When the last exodus from the Euphrates valley occurred, Egypt was fortunate in
gaining so many of the most skillful artists and artisans. These Andite
artisans found themselves quite at home in that they were thoroughly familiar
with river life, its floods, irrigations, and dry seasons. They enjoyed the
sheltered position of the Nile valley; they were there much less subject to
hostile raids and attacks than along the Euphrates. And they added greatly to
the metalworking skill of the Egyptians. Here they worked iron ores coming from
Mount Sinai instead of from the Black Sea regions.

The Egyptians very early assembled their municipal deities into an elaborate
national system of gods. They developed an extensive theology and had an
equally extensive but burdensome priesthood. Several different leaders sought
to revive the remnants of the early religious teachings of the Sethites, but
these endeavors were short-lived. The Andites built the first stone structures
in Egypt. The first and most exquisite of the stone pyramids was erected by
Imhotep, an Andite architectural genius, while serving as prime minister.
Previous buildings had been constructed of brick, and while many stone
structures had been erected in different parts of the world, this was the first
in Egypt. But the art of building steadily declined from the days of this great
architect.

This brilliant epoch of culture was cut short by internal warfare along the
Nile, and the country was soon overrun, as Mesopotamia had been, by the
inferior tribes from inhospitable Arabia and by the blacks from the south. As a
result, social progress steadily declined for more than five hundred years.

                                top of page - 895

7. ANDITES OF THE MEDITERRANEAN ISLES

During the decline of culture in Mesopotamia there persisted for some time a
superior civilization on the islands of the eastern Mediterranean.

About 12,000 B.C. a brilliant tribe of Andites migrated to Crete. This was the
only island settled so early by such a superior group, and it was almost two
thousand years before the descendants of these mariners spread to the
neighboring isles. This group were the narrow-headed, smaller-statured Andites
who had intermarried with the Vanite division of the northern Nodites. They
were all under six feet in height and had been literally driven off the
mainland by their larger and inferior fellows. These emigrants to Crete were
highly skilled in textiles, metals, pottery, plumbing, and the use of stone for
building material. They engaged in writing and carried on as herders and
agriculturists.

Almost two thousand years after the settlement of Crete a group of the tall
descendants of Adamson made their way over the northern islands to Greece,
coming almost directly from their highland home north of Mesopotamia. These
progenitors of the Greeks were led westward by Sato, a direct descendant of
Adamson and Ratta.

The group which finally settled in Greece consisted of three hundred and
seventy-five of the selected and superior people comprising the end of the
second civilization of the Adamsonites. These later sons of Adamson carried the
then most valuable strains of the emerging white races. They were of a high
intellectual order and, physically regarded, the most beautiful of men since
the days of the first Eden.

Presently Greece and the Aegean Islands region succeeded Mesopotamia and Egypt
as the Occidental center of trade, art, and culture. But as it was in Egypt, so
again practically all of the art and science of the Aegean world was derived
from Mesopotamia except for the culture of the Adamsonite forerunners of the
Greeks. All the art and genius of these latter people is a direct legacy of the
posterity of Adamson, the first son of Adam and Eve, and his extraordinary
second wife, a daughter descended in an unbroken line from the pure Nodite
staff of Prince Caligastia. No wonder the Greeks had mythological traditions
that they were directly descended from gods and superhuman beings.

The Aegean region passed through five distinct cultural stages, each less
spiritual than the preceding, and erelong the last glorious era of art perished
beneath the weight of the rapidly multiplying mediocre descendants of the
Danubian slaves who had been imported by the later generations of Greeks.

It was during this age in Crete that the mother cult of the descendants of Cain
attained its greatest vogue. This cult glorified Eve in the worship of the
"great mother." Images of Eve were everywhere. Thousands of public shrines were
erected throughout Crete and Asia Minor. And this mother cult persisted on down
to the times of Christ, becoming later incorporated in the early Christian
religion under the guise of the glorification and worship of Mary the earth
mother of Jesus.

By about 6500 B.C. there had occurred a great decline in the spiritual heritage
of the Andites. The descendants of Adam were widespreadly dispersed and had
been virtually swallowed up in the older and more numerous human races. And
this decadence of Andite civilization, together with the disappearance of

                                top of page - 896

their religious standards, left the spiritually impoverished races of the world
in a deplorable condition.

By 5000 B.C. the three purest strains of Adam's descendants were in Sumeria,
northern Europe, and Greece. The whole of Mesopotamia was being slowly
deteriorated by the stream of mixed and darker races which filtered in from
Arabia. And the coming of these inferior peoples contributed further to the
scattering abroad of the biologic and cultural residue of the Andites. From all
over the fertile crescent the more adventurous peoples poured westward to the
islands. These migrants cultivated both grain and vegetables, and they brought
domesticated animals with them.

About 5000 B.C. a mighty host of progressive Mesopotamians moved out of the
Euphrates valley and settled upon the island of Cyprus; this civilization was
wiped out about two thousand years subsequently by the barbarian hordes from
the north.

Another great colony settled on the Mediterranean near the later site of
Carthage. And from north Africa large numbers of Andites entered Spain and
later mingled in Switzerland with their brethren who had earlier come to Italy
from the Aegean Islands.

When Egypt followed Mesopotamia in cultural decline, many of the more able and
advanced families fled to Crete, thus greatly augmenting this already advanced
civilization. And when the arrival of inferior groups from Egypt later
threatened the civilization of Crete, the more cultured families moved on west
to Greece.

The Greeks were not only great teachers and artists, they were also the world's
greatest traders and colonizers. Before succumbing to the flood of inferiority
which eventually engulfed their art and commerce, they succeeded in planting so
many outposts of culture to the west that a great many of the advances in early
Greek civilization persisted in the later peoples of southern Europe, and many
of the mixed descendants of these Adamsonites became incorporated in the tribes
of the adjacent mainlands.

8. THE DANUBIAN ANDONITES

The Andite peoples of the Euphrates valley migrated north to Europe to mingle
with the blue men and west into the Mediterranean regions to mix with the
remnants of the commingled Saharans and the southern blue men. And these two
branches of the white race were, and now are, widely separated by the
broad-headed mountain survivors of the earlier Andonite tribes which had long
inhabited these central regions.

These descendants of Andon were dispersed through most of the mountainous
regions of central and southeastern Europe. They were often reinforced by
arrivals from Asia Minor, which region they occupied in considerable strength.
The ancient Hittites stemmed directly from the Andonite stock; their pale skins
and broad heads were typical of that race. This strain was carried in Abraham's
ancestry and contributed much to the characteristic facial appearance of his
later Jewish descendants who, while having a culture and religion derived from
the Andites, spoke a very different language. Their tongue was distinctly
Andonite.

                                top of page - 897

The tribes that dwelt in houses erected on piles or log piers over the lakes of
Italy, Switzerland, and southern Europe were the expanding fringes of the
African, Aegean, and, more especially, the Danubian migrations.

The Danubians were Andonites, farmers and herders who had entered Europe
through the Balkan peninsula and were moving slowly northward by way of the
Danube valley. They made pottery and tilled the land, preferring to live in the
valleys. The most northerly settlement of the Danubians was at Liege in
Belgium. These tribes deteriorated rapidly as they moved away from the center
and source of their culture. The best pottery is the product of the earlier
settlements.

The Danubians became mother worshipers as the result of the work of the
missionaries from Crete. These tribes later amalgamated with groups of Andonite
sailors who came by boats from the coast of Asia Minor, and who were also
mother worshipers. Much of central Europe was thus early settled by these mixed
types of the broad-headed white races which practiced mother worship and the
religious rite of cremating the dead, for it was the custom of the mother
cultists to burn their dead in stone huts.

9. THE THREE WHITE RACES

The racial blends in Europe toward the close of the Andite migrations became
generalized into the three white races as follows:

1. The northern white race. This so-called Nordic race consisted primarily of
the blue man plus the Andite but also contained a considerable amount of
Andonite blood, together with smaller amounts of the red and yellow Sangik. The
northern white race thus encompassed these four most desirable human stocks.
But the largest inheritance was from the blue man. The typical early Nordic was
long-headed, tall, and blond. But long ago this race became thoroughly mixed
with all of the branches of the white peoples.

The primitive culture of Europe, which was encountered by the invading Nordics,
was that of the retrograding Danubians blended with the blue man. The
Nordic-Danish and the Danubian-Andonite cultures met and mingled on the Rhine
as is witnessed by the existence of two racial groups in Germany today.

The Nordics continued the trade in amber from the Baltic coast, building up a
great commerce with the broadheads of the Danube valley via the Brenner Pass.
This extended contact with the Danubians led these northerners into mother
worship, and for several thousands of years cremation of the dead was almost
universal throughout Scandinavia. This explains why remains of the earlier
white races, although buried all over Europe, are not to be found--only their
ashes in stone and clay urns. These white men also built dwellings; they never
lived in caves. And again this explains why there are so few evidences of the
white man's early culture, although the preceding Cro-Magnon type is well
preserved where it has been securely sealed up in caves and grottoes. As it
were, one day in northern Europe there is a primitive culture of the
retrogressing Danubians and the blue man and the next that of a suddenly
appearing and vastly superior white man.

2. The central white race. While this group includes strains of blue, yellow,
and Andite, it is predominantly Andonite. These people are broad-headed,
swarthy, and stocky. They are driven like a wedge between the Nordic and

                                top of page - 898

Mediterranean races, with the broad base resting in Asia and the apex
penetrating eastern France.

For almost twenty thousand years the Andonites had been pushed farther and
farther to the north of central Asia by the Andites. By 3000 B.C. increasing
aridity was driving these Andonites back into Turkestan. This Andonite push
southward continued for over a thousand years and, splitting around the Caspian
and Black seas, penetrated Europe by way of both the Balkans and the Ukraine.
This invasion included the remaining groups of Adamson's descendants and,
during the latter half of the invasion period, carried with it considerable
numbers of the Iranian Andites as well as many of the descendants of the
Sethite priests.

By 2500 B.C. the westward thrust of the Andonites reached Europe. And this
overrunning of all Mesopotamia, Asia Minor, and the Danube basin by the
barbarians of the hills of Turkestan constituted the most serious and lasting
of all cultural setbacks up to that time. These invaders definitely Andonized
the character of the central European races, which have ever since remained
characteristically Alpine.

3. The southern white race. This brunet Mediterranean race consisted of a blend
of the Andite and the blue man, with a smaller Andonite strain than in the
north. This group also absorbed a considerable amount of secondary Sangik blood
through the Saharans. In later times this southern division of the white race
was infused by strong Andite elements from the eastern Mediterranean.

The Mediterranean coastlands did not, however, become permeated by the Andites
until the times of the great nomadic invasions of 2500 B.C. Land traffic and
trade were nearly suspended during these centuries when the nomads invaded the
eastern Mediterranean districts. This interference with land travel brought
about the great expansion of sea traffic and trade; Mediterranean sea-borne
commerce was in full swing about forty-five hundred years ago. And this
development of marine traffic resulted in the sudden expansion of the
descendants of the Andites throughout the entire coastal territory of the
Mediterranean basin.

These racial mixtures laid the foundations for the southern European race, the
most highly mixed of all. And since these days this race has undergone still
further admixture, notably with the blue-yellow-Andite peoples of Arabia. This
Mediterranean race is, in fact, so freely admixed with the surrounding peoples
as to be virtually indiscernible as a separate type, but in general its members
are short, long-headed, and brunet.

In the north the Andites, through warfare and marriage, obliterated the blue
men, but in the south they survived in greater numbers. The Basques and the
Berbers represent the survival of two branches of this race, but even these
peoples have been thoroughly admixed with the Saharans.

This was the picture of race mixture presented in central Europe about 3000
B.C. In spite of the partial Adamic default, the higher types did blend.

These were the times of the New Stone Age overlapping the oncoming Bronze Age.
In Scandinavia it was the Bronze Age associated with mother worship. In
southern France and Spain it was the New Stone Age associated with sun worship.
This was the time of the building of the circular and roofless sun temples. The
European white races were energetic builders, delighting to set up great stones
as tokens to the sun, much as did their later-day descendants at Stonehenge.
The vogue of sun worship indicates that this was a great period of agriculture
in southern Europe.

                                top of page - 899

The superstitions of this comparatively recent sun-worshiping era even now
persist in the folkways of Brittany. Although Christianized for over fifteen
hundred years, these Bretons still retain charms of the New Stone Age for
warding off the evil eye. They still keep thunderstones in the chimney as
protection against lightning. The Bretons never mingled with the Scandinavian
Nordics. They are survivors of the original Andonite inhabitants of western
Europe, mixed with the Mediterranean stock.

But it is a fallacy to presume to classify the white peoples as Nordic, Alpine,
and Mediterranean. There has been altogether too much blending to permit such a
grouping. At one time there was a fairly well-defined division of the white
race into such classes, but widespread intermingling has since occurred, and it
is no longer possible to identify these distinctions with any clarity. Even in
3000 B.C. the ancient social groups were no more of one race than are the
present inhabitants of North America.

This European culture for five thousand years continued to grow and to some
extent intermingle. But the barrier of language prevented the full
reciprocation of the various Occidental nations. During the past century this
culture has been experiencing its best opportunity for blending in the
cosmopolitan population of North America; and the future of that continent will
be determined by the quality of the racial factors which are permitted to enter
into its present and future populations, as well as by the level of the social
culture which is maintained.

[Presented by an Archangel of Nebadon.]

                                top of page - 900

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³      Andite      ³  Development Of   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³   Expansio...    ³        ...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
