            Urantia Book Paper 104 Growth Of The Trinity Concept
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                                      ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 104 Growth Of The Trinity Concept

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE Trinity concept of revealed religion must not be confused with the triad
beliefs of evolutionary religions. The ideas of triads arose from many
suggestive relationships but chiefly because of the three joints of the
fingers, because three legs were the fewest which could stabilize a stool,
because three support points could keep up a tent; furthermore, primitive man,
for a long time, could not count beyond three.

Aside from certain natural couplets, such as past and present, day and night,
hot and cold, and male and female, man generally tends to think in triads:
yesterday, today, and tomorrow; sunrise, noon, and sunset; father, mother, and
child. Three cheers are given the victor. The dead are buried on the third day,
and the ghost is placated by three ablutions of water.

As a consequence of these natural associations in human experience, the triad
made its appearance in religion, and this long before the Paradise Trinity of
Deities, or even any of their representatives, had been revealed to mankind.
Later on, the Persians, Hindus, Greeks, Egyptians, Babylonians, Romans, and
Scandinavians all had triad gods, but these were still not true trinities.
Triad deities all had a natural origin and have appeared at one time or another
among most of the intelligent peoples of Urantia. Sometimes the concept of an
evolutionary triad has become mixed with that of a revealed Trinity; in these
instances it is often impossible to distinguish one from the other.

1. URANTIAN TRINITY CONCEPTS

The first Urantian revelation leading to the comprehension of the Paradise
Trinity was made by the staff of Prince Caligastia about one-half million years
ago. This earliest Trinity concept was lost to the world in the unsettled times
following the planetary rebellion.

The second presentation of the Trinity was made by Adam and Eve in the first
and second gardens. These teachings had not been wholly obliterated even in the
times of Machiventa Melchizedek about thirty-five thousand years later, for the
Trinity concept of the Sethites persisted in both Mesopotamia and Egypt but
more especially in India, where it was long perpetuated in Agni, the Vedic
three-headed fire god.

The third presentation of the Trinity was made by Machiventa Melchizedek, and
this doctrine was symbolized by the three concentric circles which the sage of
Salem wore on his breast plate. But Machiventa found it very difficult to teach
the Palestinian Bedouins about the Universal Father, the Eternal Son, and the
Infinite Spirit. Most of his disciples thought that the Trinity consisted of
the three Most Highs of Norlatiadek; a few conceived of the Trinity as the

                               top of page - 1144

System Sovereign, the Constellation Father, and the local universe Creator
Deity; still fewer even remotely grasped the idea of the Paradise association
of the Father, Son, and Spirit.

Through the activities of the Salem missionaries the Melchizedek teachings of
the Trinity gradually spread throughout much of Eurasia and northern Africa. It
is often difficult to distinguish between the triads and the trinities in the
later Andite and the post-Melchizedek ages, when both concepts to a certain
extent intermingled and coalesced.

Among the Hindus the trinitarian concept took root as Being, Intelligence, and
Joy. (A later Indian conception was Brahma, Siva, and Vishnu.) While the
earlier Trinity portrayals were brought to India by the Sethite priests, the
later ideas of the Trinity were imported by the Salem missionaries and were
developed by the native intellects of India through a compounding of these
doctrines with the evolutionary triad conceptions.

The Buddhist faith developed two doctrines of a trinitarian nature: The earlier
was Teacher, Law, and Brotherhood; that was the presentation made by Gautama
Siddhartha. The later idea, developing among the northern branch of the
followers of Buddha, embraced Supreme Lord, Holy Spirit, and Incarnate Savior.

And these ideas of the Hindus and Buddhists were real trinitarian postulates,
that is, the idea of a threefold manifestation of a monotheistic God. A true
trinity conception is not just a grouping together of three separate gods.

The Hebrews knew about the Trinity from the Kenite traditions of the days of
Melchizedek, but their monotheistic zeal for the one God, Yahweh, so eclipsed
all such teachings that by the time of Jesus' appearance the Elohim doctrine
had been practically eradicated from Jewish theology. The Hebrew mind could not
reconcile the trinitarian concept with the monotheistic belief in the One Lord,
the God of Israel.

The followers of the Islamic faith likewise failed to grasp the idea of the
Trinity. It is always difficult for an emerging monotheism to tolerate
trinitarianism when confronted by polytheism. The trinity idea takes best hold
of those religions which have a firm monotheistic tradition coupled with
doctrinal elasticity. The great monotheists, the Hebrews and Mohammedans, found
it difficult to distinguish between worshiping three gods, polytheism, and
trinitarianism, the worship of one Deity existing in a triune manifestation of
divinity and personality.

Jesus taught his apostles the truth regarding the persons of the Paradise
Trinity, but they thought he spoke figuratively and symbolically. Having been
nurtured in Hebraic monotheism, they found it difficult to entertain any belief
that seemed to conflict with their dominating concept of Yahweh. And the early
Christians inherited the Hebraic prejudice against the Trinity concept.

The first Trinity of Christianity was proclaimed at Antioch and consisted of
God, his Word, and his Wisdom. Paul knew of the Paradise Trinity of Father,
Son, and Spirit, but he seldom preached about it and made mention thereof in
only a few of his letters to the newly forming churches. Even then, as did his
fellow apostles, Paul confused Jesus, the Creator Son of the local universe,
with the Second Person of Deity, the Eternal Son of Paradise.

The Christian concept of the Trinity, which began to gain recognition near the
close of the first century after Christ, was comprised of the Universal Father,

                               top of page - 1145

the Creator Son of Nebadon, and the Divine Minister of Salvington--Mother
Spirit of the local universe and creative consort of the Creator Son.

Not since the times of Jesus has the factual identity of the Paradise Trinity
been known on Urantia (except by a few individuals to whom it was especially
revealed) until its presentation in these revelatory disclosures. But though
the Christian concept of the Trinity erred in fact, it was practically true
with respect to spiritual relationships. Only in its philosophic implications
and cosmological consequences did this concept suffer embarrassment: It has
been difficult for many who are cosmic minded to believe that the Second Person
of Deity, the second member of an infinite Trinity, once dwelt on Urantia; and
while in spirit this is true, in actuality it is not a fact. The Michael
Creators fully embody the divinity of the Eternal Son, but they are not the
absolute personality.

2. TRINITY UNITY AND DEITY PLURALITY

Monotheism arose as a philosophic protest against the inconsistency of
polytheism. It developed first through pantheon organizations with the
departmentalization of supernatural activities, then through the henotheistic
exaltation of one god above the many, and finally through the exclusion of all
but the One God of final value.

Trinitarianism grows out of the experiential protest against the impossibility
of conceiving the oneness of a deanthropomorphized solitary Deity of unrelated
universe significance. Given a sufficient time, philosophy tends to abstract
the personal qualities from the Deity concept of pure monotheism, thus reducing
this idea of an unrelated God to the status of a pantheistic Absolute. It has
always been difficult to understand the personal nature of a God who has no
personal relationships in equality with other and co-ordinate personal beings.
Personality in Deity demands that such Deity exist in relation to other and
equal personal Deity.

Through the recognition of the Trinity concept the mind of man can hope to
grasp something of the interrelationship of love and law in the time-space
creations. Through spiritual faith man gains insight into the love of God but
soon discovers that this spiritual faith has no influence on the ordained laws
of the material universe. Irrespective of the firmness of man's belief in God
as his Paradise Father, expanding cosmic horizons demand that he also give
recognition to the reality of Paradise Deity as universal law, that he
recognize the Trinity sovereignty extending outward from Paradise and
overshadowing even the evolving local universes of the Creator Sons and
Creative Daughters of the three eternal persons whose deity union is the fact
and reality and eternal indivisibility of the Paradise Trinity.

And this selfsame Paradise Trinity is a real entity--not a personality but
nonetheless a true and absolute reality; not a personality but nonetheless
compatible with coexistent personalities--the personalities of the Father, the
Son, and the Spirit. The Trinity is a supersummative Deity reality eventuating
out of the conjoining of the three Paradise Deities. The qualities,
characteristics, and functions of the Trinity are not the simple sum of the
attributes of the three Paradise Deities; Trinity functions are something
unique, original, and not wholly predictable from an analysis of the attributes
of Father, Son, and Spirit.

                               top of page - 1146

For example: The Master, when on earth, admonished his followers that justice
is never a personal act; it is always a group function. Neither do the Gods, as
persons, administer justice. But they perform this very function as a
collective whole, as the Paradise Trinity.

The conceptual grasp of the Trinity association of Father, Son, and Spirit
prepares the human mind for the further presentation of certain other threefold
relationships. Theological reason may be fully satisfied by the concept of the
Paradise Trinity, but philosophical and cosmological reason demand the
recognition of the other triune associations of the First Source and Center,
those triunities in which the Infinite functions in various non-Father
capacities of universal manifestation--the relationships of the God of force,
energy, power, causation, reaction, potentiality, actuality, gravity, tension,
pattern, principle, and unity.

3. TRINITIES AND TRIUNITIES

While mankind has sometimes grasped at an understanding of the Trinity of the
three persons of Deity, consistency demands that the human intellect perceive
that there are certain relationships between all seven Absolutes. But all that
which is true of the Paradise Trinity is not necessarily true of a triunity,
for a triunity is something other than a trinity. In certain functional aspects
a triunity may be analogous to a trinity, but it is never homologous in nature
with a trinity.

Mortal man is passing through a great age of expanding horizons and enlarging
concepts on Urantia, and his cosmic philosophy must accelerate in evolution to
keep pace with the expansion of the intellectual arena of human thought. As the
cosmic consciousness of mortal man expands, he perceives the interrelatedness
of all that he finds in his material science, intellectual philosophy, and
spiritual insight. Still, with all this belief in the unity of the cosmos, man
perceives the diversity of all existence. In spite of all concepts concerning
the immutability of Deity, man perceives that he lives in a universe of
constant change and experiential growth. Regardless of the realization of the
survival of spiritual values, man has ever to reckon with the mathematics and
premathematics of force, energy, and power.

In some manner the eternal repleteness of infinity must be reconciled with the
time-growth of the evolving universes and with the incompleteness of the
experiential inhabitants thereof. In some way the conception of total
infinitude must be so segmented and qualified that the mortal intellect and the
morontia soul can grasp this concept of final value and spiritualizing
significance.

While reason demands a monotheistic unity of cosmic reality, finite experience
requires the postulate of plural Absolutes and of their co-ordination in cosmic
relationships. Without co-ordinate existences there is no possibility for the
appearance of diversity of absolute relationships, no chance for the operation
of differentials, variables, modifiers, attenuators, qualifiers, or
diminishers.

In these papers total reality (infinity) has been presented as it exists in the
seven Absolutes:

1. The Universal Father.

2. The Eternal Son.

3. The Infinite Spirit.

                               top of page - 1147

4. The Isle of Paradise.

5. The Deity Absolute.

6. The Universal Absolute.

7. The Unqualified Absolute.

The First Source and Center, who is Father to the Eternal Son, is also Pattern
to the Paradise Isle. He is personality unqualified in the Son but personality
potentialized in the Deity Absolute. The Father is energy revealed in
Paradise-Havona and at the same time energy concealed in the Unqualified
Absolute. The Infinite is ever disclosed in the ceaseless acts of the Conjoint
Actor while he is eternally functioning in the compensating but enshrouded
activities of the Universal Absolute. Thus is the Father related to the six
co-ordinate Absolutes, and thus do all seven encompass the circle of infinity
throughout the endless cycles of eternity.

It would seem that triunity of absolute relationships is inevitable.
Personality seeks other personality association on absolute as well as on all
other levels. And the association of the three Paradise personalities
eternalizes the first triunity, the personality union of the Father, the Son,
and the Spirit. For when these three persons, as persons, conjoin for united
function, they thereby constitute a triunity of functional unity, not a
trinity--an organic entity--but nonetheless a triunity, a threefold functional
aggregate unanimity.

The Paradise Trinity is not a triunity; it is not a functional unanimity;
rather is it undivided and indivisible Deity. The Father, Son, and Spirit (as
persons) can sustain a relationship to the Paradise Trinity, for the Trinity is
their undivided Deity. The Father, Son, and Spirit sustain no such personal
relationship to the first triunity, for that is their functional union as three
persons. Only as the Trinity--as undivided Deity--do they collectively sustain
an external relationship to the triunity of their personal aggregation.

Thus does the Paradise Trinity stand unique among absolute relationships, there
are several existential triunities but only one existential Trinity. A triunity
is not an entity. It is functional rather than organic. Its members are
partners rather than corporative. The components of the triunities may be
entities, but a triunity itself is an association.

There is, however, one point of comparison between trinity and triunity: Both
eventuate in functions that are something other than the discernible sum of the
attributes of the component members. But while they are thus comparable from a
functional standpoint, they otherwise exhibit no categorical relationship. They
are roughly related as the relation of function to structure. But the function
of the triunity association is not the function of the trinity structure or
entity.

The triunities are nonetheless real; they are very real. In them is total
reality functionalized, and through them does the Universal Father exercise
immediate and personal control over the master functions of infinity.

4. THE SEVEN TRIUNITIES

In attempting the description of seven triunities, attention is directed to the
fact that the Universal Father is the primal member of each. He is, was, and
ever will be: the First Universal Father-Source, Absolute Center, Primal

                               top of page - 1148

Cause, Universal Controller, Limitless Energizer, Original Unity, Unqualified
Upholder, First Person of Deity, Primal Cosmic Pattern, and Essence of
Infinity. The Universal Father is the personal cause of the Absolutes; he is
the absolute of Absolutes.

The nature and meaning of the seven triunities may be suggested as:

The First Triunity--the personal-purposive triunity. This is the grouping of
the three Deity personalities:

1. The Universal Father.

2. The Eternal Son.

3. The Infinite Spirit.

This is the threefold union of love, mercy, and ministry--the purposive and
personal association of the three eternal Paradise personalities. This is the
divinely fraternal, creature-loving, fatherly-acting, and ascension-promoting
association. The divine personalities of this first triunity are
personality-bequeathing, spirit-bestowing, and mind-endowing Gods.

This is the triunity of infinite volition; it acts throughout the eternal
present and in all of the past-present-future flow of time. This association
yields volitional infinity and provides the mechanisms whereby personal Deity
becomes self-revelatory to the creatures of the evolving cosmos.

The Second Triunity--the power-pattern triunity. Whether it be a tiny
ultimaton, a blazing star, or a whirling nebula, even the central or
superuniverses, from the smallest to the largest material organizations, always
is the physical pattern--the cosmic configuration--derived from the function of
this triunity. This association consists of:

1. The Father-Son.

2. The Paradise Isle.

3. The Conjoint Actor.

Energy is organized by the cosmic agents of the Third Source and Center; energy
is fashioned after the pattern of Paradise, the absolute materialization; but
behind all of this ceaseless manipulation is the presence of the Father-Son,
whose union first activated the Paradise pattern in the appearance of Havona
concomitant with the birth of the Infinite Spirit, the Conjoint Actor.

In religious experience, creatures make contact with the God who is love, but
such spiritual insight must never eclipse the intelligent recognition of the
universe fact of the pattern which is Paradise. The Paradise personalities
enlist the freewill adoration of all creatures by the compelling power of
divine love and lead all such spirit-born personalities into the supernal
delights of the unending service of the finaliter sons of God. The second
triunity is the architect of the space stage whereon these transactions unfold;
it determines the patterns of cosmic configuration.

Love may characterize the divinity of the first triunity, but pattern is the
galactic manifestation of the second triunity. What the first triunity is to
evolving personalities, the second triunity is to the evolving universes.
Pattern and personality are two of the great manifestations of the acts of the
First Source and Center; and no matter how difficult it may be to comprehend,
it

                               top of page - 1149

is nonetheless true that the power-pattern and the loving person are one and
the same universal reality; the Paradise Isle and the Eternal Son are
co-ordinate but antipodal revelations of the unfathomable nature of the
Universal Father-Force.

The Third Triunity--the spirit-evolutional triunity. The entirety of spiritual
manifestation has its beginning and end in this association, consisting of:

1. The Universal Father.

2. The Son-Spirit.

3. The Deity Absolute.

From spirit potency to Paradise spirit, all spirit finds reality expression in
this triune association of the pure spirit essence of the Father, the active
spirit values of the Son-Spirit, and the unlimited spirit potentials of the
Deity Absolute. The existential values of spirit have their primordial genesis,
complete manifestation, and final destiny in this triunity.

The Father exists before spirit; the Son-Spirit functions as active creative
spirit; the Deity Absolute exists as all-encompassing spirit, even beyond
spirit.

The Fourth Triunity--the triunity of energy infinity. Within this triunity
there eternalizes the beginnings and the endings of all energy reality, from
space potency to monota. This grouping embraces the following:

1. The Father-Spirit.

2. The Paradise Isle.

3. The Unqualified Absolute.

Paradise is the center of the force-energy activation of the cosmos--the
universe position of the First Source and Center, the cosmic focal point of the
Unqualified Absolute, and the source of all energy. Existentially present
within this triunity is the energy potential of the cosmos-infinite, of which
the grand universe and the master universe are only partial manifestations.

The fourth triunity absolutely controls the fundamental units of cosmic energy
and releases them from the grasp of the Unqualified Absolute in direct
proportion to the appearance in the experiential Deities of subabsolute
capacity to control and stabilize the metamorphosing cosmos.

This triunity is force and energy. The endless possibilities of the Unqualified
Absolute are centered around the absolutum of the Isle of Paradise, whence
emanate the unimaginable agitations of the otherwise static quiescence of the
Unqualified. And the endless throbbing of the material Paradise heart of the
infinite cosmos beats in harmony with the unfathomable pattern and the
unsearchable plan of the Infinite Energizer, the First Source and Center.

The Fifth Triunity--the triunity of reactive infinity. This association
consists of:

1. The Universal Father.

2. The Universal Absolute.

3. The Unqualified Absolute.

This grouping yields the eternalization of the functional infinity realization
of all that is actualizable within the domains of nondeity reality. This
triunity

                               top of page - 1150

manifests unlimited reactive capacity to the volitional, causative, tensional,
and patternal actions and presences of the other triunities.

The Sixth Triunity--the triunity of cosmic-associated Deity. This grouping
consists of:

1. The Universal Father.

2. The Deity Absolute.

3. The Universal Absolute.

This is the association of Deity-in-the-cosmos, the immanence of Deity in
conjunction with the transcendence of Deity. This is the last outreach of
divinity on the levels of infinity toward those realities which lie outside the
domain of deified reality.

The Seventh Triunity--the triunity of infinite unity. This is the unity of
infinity functionally manifest in time and eternity, the co-ordinate
unification of actuals and potentials. This group consists of:

1. The Universal Father.

2. The Conjoint Actor.

3. The Universal Absolute.

The Conjoint Actor universally integrates the varying functional aspects of all
actualized reality on all levels of manifestation, from finites through
transcendentals and on to absolutes. The Universal Absolute perfectly
compensates the differentials inherent in the varying aspects of all incomplete
reality, from the limitless potentialities of active-volitional and causative
Deity reality to the boundless possibilities of static, reactive, nondeity
reality in the incomprehensible domains of the Unqualified Absolute.

As they function in this triunity, the Conjoint Actor and the Universal
Absolute are alike responsive to Deity and to nondeity presences, as also is
the First Source and Center, who in this relationship is to all intents and
purposes conceptually indistinguishable from the I AM.

These approximations are sufficient to elucidate the concept of the triunities.
Not knowing the ultimate level of the triunities, you cannot fully comprehend
the first seven. While we do not deem it wise to attempt any further
elaboration, we may state that there are fifteen triune associations of the
First Source and Center, eight of which are unrevealed in these papers. These
unrevealed associations are concerned with realities, actualities, and
potentialities which are beyond the experiential level of supremacy.

The triunities are the functional balance wheel of infinity, the unification of
the uniqueness of the Seven Infinity Absolutes. It is the existential presence
of the triunities that enables the Father-I AM to experience functional
infinity unity despite the diversification of infinity into seven Absolutes.
The First Source and Center is the unifying member of all triunities; in him
all things have their unqualified beginnings, eternal existences, and infinite
destinies--"in him all things consist."

Although these associations cannot augment the infinity of the Father-I AM,
they do appear to make possible the subinfinite and subabsolute manifestations
of his reality. The seven triunities multiply versatility, eternalize

                               top of page - 1151

new depths, deitize new values, disclose new potentialities, reveal new
meanings; and all these diversified manifestations in time and space and in the
eternal cosmos are existent in the hypothetical stasis of the original infinity
of the I AM.

5. TRIODITIES

There are certain other triune relationships which are non-Father in
constitution, but they are not real triunities, and they are always
distinguished from the Father triunities. They are called variously, associate
triunities, co-ordinate triunities, and triodities. They are consequential to
the existence of the triunities. Two of these associations are constituted as
follows:

The Triodity of Actuality. This triodity consists in the interrelationship of
the three absolute actuals:

1. The Eternal Son.

2. The Paradise Isle.

3. The Conjoint Actor.

The Eternal Son is the absolute of spirit reality, the absolute personality.
The Paradise Isle is the absolute of cosmic reality, the absolute pattern. The
Conjoint Actor is the absolute of mind reality, the co-ordinate of absolute
spirit reality, and the existential Deity synthesis of personality and power.
This triune association eventuates the co-ordination of the sum total of
actualized reality--spirit, cosmic, or mindal. It is unqualified in actuality.

The Triodity of Potentiality. This triodity consists in the association of the
three Absolutes of potentiality:

1. The Deity Absolute.

2. The Universal Absolute.

3. The Unqualified Absolute.

Thus are interassociated the infinity reservoirs of all latent energy
reality--spirit, mindal, or cosmic. This association yields the integration of
all latent energy reality. It is infinite in potential.

As the triunities are primarily concerned with the functional unification of
infinity, so are triodities involved in the cosmic appearance of experiential
Deities. The triunities are indirectly concerned, but the triodities are
directly concerned, in the experiential Deities--Supreme, Ultimate, and
Absolute. They appear in the emerging power-personality synthesis of the
Supreme Being. And to the time creatures of space the Supreme Being is a
revelation of the unity of the I AM.

[Presented by a Melchizedek of Nebadon.]

                               top of page - 1152

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³  The Reality Of  ³     Deity And     ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³       ...        ³     Reali...      ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
