         Urantia Book Paper 107 Origin And Nature Of Thought Adjusters
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                                      ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Paper 107 Origin And Nature Of Thought Adjusters

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

ALTHOUGH the Universal Father is personally resident on Paradise, at the very
center of the universes, he is also actually present on the worlds of space in
the minds of his countless children of time, for he indwells them as the
Mystery Monitors. The eternal Father is at one and the same time farthest
removed from, and most intimately associated with, his planetary mortal sons.

The Adjusters are the actuality of the Father's love incarnate in the souls of
men; they are the veritable promise of man's eternal career imprisoned within
the mortal mind; they are the essence of man's perfected finaliter personality,
which he can foretaste in time as he progressively masters the divine technique
of achieving the living of the Father's will, step by step, through the
ascension of universe upon universe until he actually attains the divine
presence of his Paradise Father.

God, having commanded man to be perfect, even as he is perfect, has descended
as the Adjuster to become man's experiential partner in the achievement of the
supernal destiny which has been thus ordained. The fragment of God which
indwells the mind of man is the absolute and unqualified assurance that man can
find the Universal Father in association with this divine Adjuster, which came
forth from God to find man and sonship him even in the days of the flesh.

Any mortal who has seen a Creator Son has seen the Universal Father, and he who
is indwelt by a divine Adjuster is indwelt by the Paradise Father. Every mortal
who is consciously or unconsciously following the leading of his indwelling
Adjuster is living in accordance with the will of God. Consciousness of
Adjuster presence is consciousness of God's presence. Eternal fusion of the
Adjuster with the evolutionary soul of man is the factual experience of eternal
union with God as a universe associate of Deity.

It is the Adjuster who creates within man that unquenchable yearning and
incessant longing to be like God, to attain Paradise, and there before the
actual person of Deity to worship the infinite source of the divine gift. The
Adjuster is the living presence which actually links the mortal son with his
Paradise Father and draws him nearer and nearer to the Father. The Adjuster is
our compensatory equalization of the enormous universe tension which is created
by the distance of man's removal from God and by the degree of his partiality
in contrast with the universality of the eternal Father.

The Adjuster is an absolute essence of an infinite being imprisoned within the
mind of a finite creature which, depending on the choosing of such a mortal,
can eventually consummate this temporary union of God and man and veritably

                               top of page - 1177

actualize a new order of being for unending universe service. The Adjuster is
the divine universe reality which factualizes the truth that God is man's
Father. The Adjuster is man's infallible cosmic compass, always and unerringly
pointing the soul Godward.

On the evolutionary worlds, will creatures traverse three general developmental
stages of being: From the arrival of the Adjuster to comparative full growth,
about twenty years of age on Urantia, the Monitors are sometimes designated
Thought Changers. From this time to the attainment of the age of discretion,
about forty years, the Mystery Monitors are called Thought Adjusters. From the
attainment of discretion to deliverance from the flesh, they are often referred
to as Thought Controllers. These three phases of mortal life have no connection
with the three stages of Adjuster progress in mind duplication and soul
evolution.

1. ORIGIN OF THOUGHT ADJUSTERS

Since Thought Adjusters are of the essence of original Deity, no one may
presume to discourse authoritatively upon their nature and origin; I can only
impart the traditions of Salvington and the beliefs of Uversa; I can only
explain how we regard these Mystery Monitors and their associated entities
throughout the grand universe.

Though there are diverse opinions regarding the mode of the bestowal of Thought
Adjusters, there exist no such differences concerning their origin; all are
agreed that they proceed direct from the Universal Father, the First Source and
Center. They are not created beings; they are fragmentized entities
constituting the factual presence of the infinite God. Together with their many
unrevealed associates, the Adjusters are undiluted and unmixed divinity,
unqualified and unattenuated parts of Deity; they are of God, and as far as we
are able to discern, they are God.

As to the time of their beginning separate existences apart from the
absoluteness of the First Source and Center, we do not know; neither do we know
their number. We know very little concerning their careers until they arrive on
the planets of time to indwell human minds, but from that time on we are more
or less familiar with their cosmic progressions up to and including the
consummation of their triune destinies: attainment of personality by fusion
with some mortal ascender, attainment of personality by fiat of the Universal
Father, or liberation from the known assignments of Thought Adjusters.

Although we do not know, we presume that Adjusters are being constantly
individualized as the universe enlarges, and as the candidates for Adjuster
fusion increase in numbers. But it may be equally possible that we are in error
in attempting to assign a numerical magnitude to the Adjusters; like God
himself, these fragments of his unfathomable nature may be existentially
infinite.

The technique of the origin of the Thought Adjusters is one of the unrevealed
functions of the Universal Father. We have every reason to believe that none of
the other absolute associates of the First Source and Center have aught to do
with the production of Father fragments. Adjusters are simply and eternally the
divine gifts; they are of God and from God, and they are like God.

In their relationship to fusion creatures they reveal a supernal love and
spiritual ministry that is profoundly confirmative of the declaration that God

                               top of page - 1178

is spirit. But there is much that takes place in addition to this transcendent
ministry that has never been revealed to Urantia mortals. Neither do we fully
understand just what really transpires when the Universal Father gives of
himself to be a part of the personality of a creature of time. Nor has the
ascending progression of the Paradise finaliters as yet disclosed the full
possibilities inherent in this supernal partnership of man and God. In the last
analysis, the Father fragments must be the gift of the absolute God to those
creatures whose destiny encompasses the possibility of the attainment of God as
absolute.

As the Universal Father fragmentizes his prepersonal Deity, so does the
Infinite Spirit individuate portions of his premind spirit to indwell and
actually to fuse with the evolutionary souls of the surviving mortals of the
spirit-fusion series. But the nature of the Eternal Son is not thus
fragmentable; the spirit of the Original Son is either diffuse or discretely
personal. Son-fused creatures are united with individualized bestowals of the
spirit of the Creator Sons of the Eternal Son.

2. CLASSIFICATION OF ADJUSTERS

Adjusters are individuated as virgin entities, and all are destined to become
either liberated, fused, or Personalized Monitors. We understand that there are
seven orders of Thought Adjusters, although we do not altogether comprehend
these divisions. We often refer to the different orders as follows:

1. Virgin Adjusters, those serving on their initial assignment in the minds of
evolutionary candidates for eternal survival. Mystery Monitors are eternally
uniform in divine nature. They are also uniform in experiential nature as they
first go out from Divinington; subsequent experiential differentiation is the
result of actual experience in universe ministry.

2. Advanced Adjusters, those who have served one or more seasons with will
creatures on worlds where the final fusion takes place between the identity of
the creature of time and an individualized portion of the spirit of the local
universe manifestation of the Third Source and Center.

3. Supreme Adjusters, those Monitors that have served in the adventure of time
on the evolutionary worlds, but whose human partners for some reason declined
eternal survival, and those that have been subsequently assigned to other
adventures in other mortals on other evolving worlds. A supreme Adjuster,
though no more divine than a virgin Monitor, has had more experience, can do
things in the human mind which a less experienced Adjuster could not do.

4. Vanished Adjusters. Here occurs a break in our efforts to follow the careers
of the Mystery Monitors. There is a fourth stage of service about which we are
not sure. The Melchizedeks teach that the fourth-stage Adjusters are on
detached assignments, roaming the universe of universes. The Solitary
Messengers are inclined to believe that they are at one with the First Source
and Center, enjoying a period of refreshing association with the Father
himself. And it is entirely possible that an Adjuster could be roaming the
master universe simultaneously with being at one with the omnipresent Father.

5. Liberated Adjusters, those Mystery Monitors that have been eternally
liberated from the service of time for the mortals of the evolving spheres.
What functions may be theirs, we do not know.

                               top of page - 1179

6. Fused Adjusters--finaliters--those who have become one with the ascending
creatures of the superuniverses, the eternity partners of the time ascenders of
the Paradise Corps of the Finality. Thought Adjusters ordinarily become fused
with the ascending mortals of time, and with such surviving mortals they are
registered in and out of Ascendington; they follow the course of ascendant
beings. Upon fusion with the ascending evolutionary soul, it appears that the
Adjuster translates from the absolute existential level of the universe to the
finite experiential level of functional association with an ascending
personality. While retaining all of the character of the existential divine
nature, a fused Adjuster becomes indissolubly linked with the ascending career
of a surviving mortal.

7. Personalized Adjusters, those who have served with the incarnated Paradise
Sons, together with many who have achieved unusual distinction during the
mortal indwelling, but whose subjects rejected survival. We have reasons for
believing that such Adjusters are personalized on the recommendations of the
Ancients of Days of the superuniverse of their assignment.

There are many ways in which these mysterious God fragments can be classified:
according to universe assignment, by the measure of success in the indwelling
of an individual mortal, or even by the racial ancestry of the mortal candidate
for fusion.

3. THE DIVININGTON HOME OF ADJUSTERS

All universe activities related to the dispatch, management, direction, and
return of the Mystery Monitors from service in all of the seven superuniverses
seem to be centered on the sacred sphere of Divinington. As far as I know, none
but Adjusters and other entities of the Father have been on that sphere. It
seems likely that numerous unrevealed prepersonal entities share Divinington as
a home sphere with the Adjusters. We conjecture that these fellow entities may
in some manner be associated with the present and future ministry of the
Mystery Monitors. But we really do not know.

When Thought Adjusters return to the Father, they go back to the realm of
supposed origin, Divinington; and probably as a part of this experience, there
is actual contact with the Father's Paradise personality as well as with the
specialized manifestation of the Father's divinity which is reported to be
situated on this secret sphere.

Although we know something of all the seven secret spheres of Paradise, we know
less of Divinington than of the others. Beings of high spiritual orders receive
only three divine injunctions, and they are:

1. Always to show adequate respect for the experience and endowments of their
seniors and superiors.

2. Always to be considerate of the limitations and inexperience of their
juniors and subordinates.

3. Never to attempt a landing on the shores of Divinington.

I have often reflected that it would be quite useless for me to go to
Divinington; I probably should be unable to see any resident beings except such
as the Personalized Adjusters, and I have seen them elsewhere. I am very sure

                               top of page - 1180

there is nothing on Divinington of real value or profit to me, nothing
essential to my growth and development, or I should not have been forbidden to
go there.

Since we can learn little or nothing of the nature and origin of Adjusters from
Divinington, we are compelled to gather information from a thousand and one
different sources, and it is necessary to assemble, associate, and correlate
this accumulated data in order that such knowledge may be informative.

The valor and wisdom exhibited by Thought Adjusters suggest that they have
undergone a training of tremendous scope and range. Since they are not
personalities, this training must be imparted in the educational institutions
of Divinington. The unique Personalized Adjusters no doubt constitute the
personnel of the Adjuster training schools of Divinington. And we do know that
this central and supervising corps is presided over by the now Personalized
Adjuster of the first Paradise Son of the Michael order to complete his
sevenfold bestowal upon the races and peoples of his universe realms.

We really know very little about the nonpersonalized Adjusters; we only contact
and communicate with the personalized orders. These are christened on
Divinington and are always known by name and not by number. The Personalized
Adjusters are permanently domiciled on Divinington; that sacred sphere is their
home. They go out from that abode only by the will of the Universal Father.
Very few are found in the domains of the local universes, but larger numbers
are present in the central universe.

4. NATURE AND PRESENCE OF ADJUSTERS

To say that a Thought Adjuster is divine is merely to recognize the nature of
origin. It is highly probable that such purity of divinity embraces the essence
of the potential of all attributes of Deity which can be contained within such
a fragment of the absolute essence of the universal presence of the eternal and
infinite Paradise Father.

The actual source of the Adjuster must be infinite, and before fusion with the
immortal soul of an evolving mortal, the reality of the Adjuster must border on
absoluteness. Adjusters are not absolutes in the universal sense, in the Deity
sense, but they are probably true absolutes within the potentialities of their
fragmented nature. They are qualified as to universality but not as to nature;
in extensiveness they are limited, but in intensiveness of meaning, value, and
fact they are absolute. For this reason we sometimes denominate the divine
gifts as the qualified absolute fragments of the Father.

No Adjuster has ever been disloyal to the Paradise Father; the lower orders of
personal creatures may sometimes have to contend with disloyal fellows, but
never the Adjusters; they are supreme and infallible in their supernal sphere
of creature ministry and universe function.

Nonpersonalized Adjusters are visible only to Personalized Adjusters. My order,
the Solitary Messengers, together with Inspired Trinity Spirits, can detect the
presence of Adjusters by means of spiritual reactive phenomena; and even
seraphim can sometimes discern the spirit luminosity of supposed association
with the presence of Monitors in the material minds of men; but none of us are
able actually to discern the real presence of Adjusters, not unless they have
been personalized, albeit their natures are perceivable in union with the fused
personalities of the ascending mortals from the evolutionary worlds.

                               top of page - 1181

The universal invisibility of the Adjusters is strongly suggestive of their
high and exclusive divine origin and nature.

There is a characteristic light, a spirit luminosity, which accompanies this
divine presence, and which has become generally associated with Thought
Adjusters. In the universe of Nebadon this Paradise luminosity is widespreadly
known as the "pilot light"; on Uversa it is called the "light of life." On
Urantia this phenomenon has sometimes been referred to as that "true light
which lights every man who comes into the world."

To all beings who have attained the Universal Father, the Personalized Thought
Adjusters are visible. Adjusters of all stages, together with all other beings,
entities, spirits, personalities, and spirit manifestations, are always
discernible by those Supreme Creator Personalities who originate in the
Paradise Deities, and who preside over the major governments of the grand
universe.

Can you really realize the true significance of the Adjuster's indwelling? Do
you really fathom what it means to have an absolute fragment of the absolute
and infinite Deity, the Universal Father, indwelling and fusing with your
finite mortal natures? When mortal man fuses with an actual fragment of the
existential Cause of the total cosmos, no limit can ever be placed upon the
destiny of such an unprecedented and unimaginable partnership. In eternity, man
will be discovering not only the infinity of the objective Deity but also the
unending potentiality of the subjective fragment of this same God. Always will
the Adjuster be revealing to the mortal personality the wonder of God, and
never can this supernal revelation come to an end, for the Adjuster is of God
and as God to mortal man.

5. ADJUSTER MINDEDNESS

Evolutionary mortals are prone to look upon mind as a cosmic mediation between
spirit and matter, for that is indeed the principal ministry of mind as
discernible by you. Hence it is quite difficult for humans to perceive that
Thought Adjusters have minds, for Adjusters are fragmentations of God on an
absolute level of reality which is not only prepersonal but also prior to all
energy and spirit divergence. On a monistic level antecedent to energy and
spirit differentiation there could be no mediating function of mind, for there
are no divergencies to be mediated.

Since Adjusters can plan, work, and love, they must have powers of selfhood
which are commensurate with mind. They are possessed of unlimited ability to
communicate with each other, that is, all forms of Monitors above the first or
virgin groups. As to the nature and purport of their intercommunications, we
can reveal very little, for we do not know. And we further know that they must
be minded in some manner else they could never be personalized.

The mindedness of the Thought Adjuster is like the mindedness of the Universal
Father and the Eternal Son--that which is ancestral to the minds of the
Conjoint Actor.

The type of mind postulated in an Adjuster must be similar to the mind
endowment of numerous other orders of prepersonal entities which presumably
likewise originate in the First Source and Center. Though many of these orders
have not been revealed on Urantia, they all disclose minded qualities. It is
also possible for these individuations of original Deity to become unified with

                               top of page - 1182

numerous evolving types of nonmortal beings and even with a limited number of
nonevolutionary beings who have developed capacity for fusion with such Deity
fragments.

When a Thought Adjuster is fused with the evolving immortal morontia soul of
the surviving human, the mind of the Adjuster can only be identified as
persisting apart from the creature's mind until the ascending mortal attains
spirit levels of universe progression.

Upon the attainment of the finaliter levels of ascendant experience, these
spirits of the sixth stage appear to transmute some mind factor representing a
union of certain phases of the mortal and Adjuster minds which had previously
functioned as liaison between the divine and human phases of such ascending
personalities. This experiential mind quality probably "supremacizes" and
subsequently augments the experiential endowment of evolutionary Deity--the
Supreme Being.

6. ADJUSTERS AS PURE SPIRITS

As Thought Adjusters are encountered in creature experience, they disclose the
presence and leading of a spirit influence. The Adjuster is indeed a spirit,
pure spirit, but spirit plus. We have never been able satisfactorily to
classify Mystery Monitors; all that can certainly be said of them is that they
are truly Godlike.

The Adjuster is man's eternity possibility; man is the Adjuster's personality
possibility. Your individual Adjusters work to spiritize you in the hope of
eternalizing your temporal identity. The Adjusters are saturated with the
beautiful and self-bestowing love of the Father of spirits. They truly and
divinely love you; they are the prisoners of spirit hope confined within the
minds of men. They long for the divinity attainment of your mortal minds that
their loneliness may end, that they may be delivered with you from the
limitations of material investiture and the habiliments of time.

Your path to Paradise is the path of spirit attainment, and the Adjuster nature
will faithfully unfold the revelation of the spiritual nature of the Universal
Father. Beyond the Paradise ascent and in the postfinaliter stages of the
eternal career, the Adjuster may possibly contact with the onetime human
partner in other than spirit ministry; but the Paradise ascent and the
finaliter career are the partnership between the God-knowing spiritualizing
mortal and the spiritual ministry of the God-revealing Adjuster.

We know that Thought Adjusters are spirits, pure spirits, presumably absolute
spirits. But the Adjuster must also be something more than exclusive spirit
reality. In addition to conjectured mindedness, factors of pure energy are also
present. If you will remember that God is the source of pure energy and of pure
spirit, it will not be so difficult to perceive that his fragments would be
both. It is a fact that the Adjusters traverse space over the instantaneous and
universal gravity circuits of the Paradise Isle.

That the Mystery Monitors are thus associated with the material circuits of the
universe of universes is indeed puzzling. But it remains a fact that they flash
throughout the entire grand universe over the material-gravity circuits. It is
entirely possible that they may even penetrate the outer space levels; they
certainly could follow the gravity presence of Paradise into these regions,

                               top of page - 1183

and though my order of personality can traverse the mind circuits of the
Conjoint Actor also beyond the confines of the grand universe, we have never
been sure of detecting the presence of Adjusters in the uncharted regions of
outer space.

And yet, while the Adjusters utilize the material-gravity circuits, they are
not subject thereto as is material creation. The Adjusters are fragments of the
ancestor of gravity, not the consequentials of gravity; they have segmentized
on a universe level of existence which is hypothetically antecedent to gravity
appearance.

Thought Adjusters have no relaxation from the time of their bestowal until the
day of their release to start for Divinington upon the natural death of their
mortal subjects. And those whose subjects do not pass through the portals of
natural death do not even experience this temporary respite. Thought Adjusters
do not require energy intake; they are energy, energy of the highest and most
divine order.

7. ADJUSTERS AND PERSONALITY

Thought Adjusters are not personalities, but they are real entities; they are
truly and perfectly individualized, although they are never, while indwelling
mortals, actually personalized. Thought Adjusters are not true personalities;
they are true realities, realities of the purest order known in the universe of
universes--they are the divine presence. Though not personal, these marvelous
fragments of the Father are commonly referred to as beings and sometimes, in
view of the spiritual phases of their present ministry to mortals, as spirit
entities.

If Thought Adjusters are not personalities having prerogatives of will and
powers of choice, how then can they select mortal subjects and volunteer to
indwell these creatures of the evolutionary worlds? This is a question easy to
ask, but probably no being in the universe of universes has ever found the
exact answer. Even my order of personality, the Solitary Messengers, does not
fully understand the endowment of will, choice, and love in entities that are
not personal.

We have often speculated that Thought Adjusters must have volition on all
prepersonal levels of choice. They volunteer to indwell human beings, they lay
plans for man's eternal career, they adapt, modify, and substitute in
accordance with circumstances, and these activities connote genuine volition.
They have affection for mortals, they function in universe crises, they are
always waiting to act decisively in accordance with human choice, and all these
are highly volitional reactions. In all situations not concerned with the
domain of the human will, they unquestionably exhibit conduct which betokens
the exercise of powers in every sense the equivalent of will, maximated
decision.

Why then, if Thought Adjusters possess volition, are they subservient to the
mortal will? We believe it is because Adjuster volition, though absolute in
nature, is prepersonal in manifestation. Human will functions on the
personality level of universe reality, and throughout the cosmos the
impersonal--the nonpersonal, the subpersonal, and the prepersonal--is ever
responsive to the will and acts of existent personality.

Throughout a universe of created beings and nonpersonal energies we do not
observe will, volition, choice, and love manifested apart from personality.
Except in the Adjusters and other similar entities we do not witness these at-

                               top of page - 1184

tributes of personality functioning in association with impersonal realities.
It would not be correct to designate an Adjuster as subpersonal, neither would
it be proper to allude to such an entity as superpersonal, but it would be
entirely permissible to term such a being prepersonal.

To our orders of being these fragments of Deity are known as the divine gifts.
We recognize that the Adjusters are divine in origin, and that they constitute
the probable proof and demonstration of a reservation by the Universal Father
of the possibility of direct and unlimited communication with any and all
material creatures throughout his virtually infinite realms, and all of this
quite apart from his presence in the personalities of his Paradise Sons or
through his indirect ministrations in the personalities of the Infinite Spirit.

There are no created beings that would not delight to be hosts to the Mystery
Monitors, but no orders of beings are thus indwelt excepting evolutionary will
creatures of finaliter destiny.

[Presented by a Solitary Messenger of Orvonton.]

                               top of page - 1185

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³     Universe     ³    Mission And    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³    Levels...     ³      Min...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
