        Urantia Book Paper 108 Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                                      ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Paper 108 Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE mission of the Thought Adjusters to the human races is to represent, to be,
the Universal Father to the mortal creatures of time and space; that is the
fundamental work of the divine gifts. Their mission is also that of elevating
the mortal minds and of translating the immortal souls of men up to the divine
heights and spiritual levels of Paradise perfection. And in the experience of
thus transforming the human nature of the temporal creature into the divine
nature of the eternal finaliter, the Adjusters bring into existence a unique
type of being, a being consisting in the eternal union of the perfect Adjuster
and the perfected creature which it would be impossible to duplicate by any
other universe technique.

Nothing in the entire universe can substitute for the fact of experience on
nonexistential levels. The infinite God is, as always, replete and complete,
infinitely inclusive of all things except evil and creature experience. God
cannot do wrong; he is infallible. God cannot experientially know what he has
never personally experienced; God's preknowledge is existential. Therefore does
the spirit of the Father descend from Paradise to participate with finite
mortals in every bona fide experience of the ascending career; it is only by
such a method that the existential God could become in truth and in fact man's
experiential Father. The infinity of the eternal God encompasses the potential
for finite experience, which indeed becomes actual in the ministry of the
Adjuster fragments that actually share the life vicissitude experiences of
human beings.

1. SELECTION AND ASSIGNMENT

When Adjusters are dispatched for mortal service from Divinington, they are
identical in the endowment of existential divinity, but they vary in
experiential qualities proportional to previous contact in and with
evolutionary creatures. We cannot explain the basis of Adjuster assignment, but
we conjecture that these divine gifts are bestowed in accordance with some wise
and efficient policy of eternal fitness of adaptation to the indwelt
personality. We do observe that the more experienced Adjuster is often the
indweller of the higher type of human mind; human inheritance must therefore be
a considerable factor in determining selection and assignment.

Although we do not definitely know, we firmly believe that all Thought
Adjusters are volunteers. But before ever they volunteer, they are in
possession of full data respecting the candidate for indwelling. The seraphic
drafts of ancestry and projected patterns of life conduct are transmitted via
Paradise

                               top of page - 1186

to the reserve corps of Adjusters on Divinington by the reflectivity technique
extending inward from the capitals of the local universes to the headquarters
of the superuniverses. This forecast covers not only the hereditary antecedents
of the mortal candidate but also the estimate of probable intellectual
endowment and spiritual capacity. The Adjusters thus volunteer to indwell minds
of whose intimate natures they have been fully apprised.

The volunteering Adjuster is particularly interested in three qualifications of
the human candidate:

1. Intellectual capacity. Is the mind normal? What is the intellectual
potential, the intelligence capacity? Can the individual develop into a bona
fide will creature? Will wisdom have an opportunity to function?

2. Spiritual perception. The prospects of reverential development, the birth
and growth of the religious nature. What is the potential of soul, the probable
spiritual capacity of receptivity?

3. Combined intellectual and spiritual powers. The degree to which these two
endowments may possibly be associated, combined, so as to produce strength of
human character and contribute to the certain evolution of an immortal soul of
survival value.

With these facts before them, it is our belief that the Monitors freely
volunteer for assignment. Probably more than one Adjuster volunteers; perhaps
the supervising personalized orders select from this group of volunteering
Adjusters the one best suited to the task of spiritualizing and eternalizing
the personality of the mortal candidate. (In the assignment and service of the
Adjusters the sex of the creature is of no consideration.)

The short time intervening between the volunteering and the actual dispatch of
the Adjuster is presumably spent in the Divinington schools of the Personalized
Monitors where a working pattern of the waiting mortal mind is utilized in
instructing the assigned Adjuster as to the most effective plans for
personality approach and mind spiritization. This mind model is formulated
through a combination of data supplied by the superuniverse reflectivity
service. At least this is our understanding, a belief which we hold as the
result of putting together information secured by contact with many
Personalized Adjusters throughout the long universe careers of the Solitary
Messengers.

When once the Adjusters are actually dispatched from Divinington, practically
no time intervenes between that moment and the hour of their appearance in the
minds of their chosen subjects. The average transit time of an Adjuster from
Divinington to Urantia is 117 hours, 42 minutes, and 7 seconds. Virtually all
of this time is occupied with registration on Uversa.

2. PREREQUISITES OF ADJUSTER INDWELLING

Though the Adjusters volunteer for service as soon as the personality forecasts
have been relayed to Divinington, they are not actually assigned until the
human subjects make their first moral personality decision. The first moral
choice of the human child is automatically indicated in the seventh
mind-adjutant and registers instantly, by way of the local universe Creative
Spirit, over the universal mind-gravity circuit of the Conjoint Actor in the
presence of the Master Spirit of superuniverse jurisdiction, who forthwith
dispatches this intelligence to Divinington. Adjusters reach their human
subjects on

                               top of page - 1187

Urantia, on the average, just prior to the sixth birthday. In the present
generation it is running five years, ten months, and four days; that is, on the
2,134th day of terrestrial life.

The Adjusters cannot invade the mortal mind until it has been duly prepared by
the indwelling ministry of the adjutant mind-spirits and encircuited in the
Holy Spirit. And it requires the co-ordinate function of all seven adjutants to
thus qualify the human mind for the reception of an Adjuster. Creature mind
must exhibit the worship outreach and indicate wisdom function by exhibiting
the ability to choose between the emerging values of good and evil--moral
choice.

Thus is the stage of the human mind set for the reception of Adjusters, but as
a general rule they do not immediately appear to indwell such minds except on
those worlds where the Spirit of Truth is functioning as a spiritual
co-ordinator of these different spirit ministries. If this spirit of the
bestowal Sons is present, the Adjusters unfailingly come the instant the
seventh adjutant mind-spirit begins to function and signalizes to the Universe
Mother Spirit that it has achieved in potential the co-ordination of the
associated six adjutants of prior ministry to such a mortal intellect.
Therefore have the divine Adjusters been universally bestowed upon all normal
minds of moral status on Urantia ever since the day of Pentecost.

Even with a Spirit of Truth endowed mind, the Adjusters cannot arbitrarily
invade the mortal intellect prior to the appearance of moral decision. But when
such a moral decision has been made, this spirit helper assumes jurisdiction
direct from Divinington. There are no intermediaries or other intervening
authorities or powers functioning between the divine Adjusters and their human
subjects; God and man are directly related.

Before the times of the pouring out of the Spirit of Truth upon the inhabitants
of an evolutionary world, the Adjusters' bestowal appears to be determined by
many spirit influences and personality attitudes. We do not fully comprehend
the laws governing such bestowals; we do not understand just what determines
the release of the Adjusters who have volunteered to indwell such evolving
minds. But we do observe numerous influences and conditions which appear to be
associated with the arrival of the Adjusters in such minds prior to the
bestowal of the Spirit of Truth, and they are:

1. The assignment of personal seraphic guardians. If a mortal has not been
previously indwelt by an Adjuster, the assignment of a personal guardian brings
the Adjuster forthwith. There exists some very definite but unknown relation
between the ministry of Adjusters and the ministry of personal seraphic
guardians.

2. The attainment of the third circle of intellectual achievement and spiritual
attainment. I have observed Adjusters arrive in mortal minds upon the conquest
of the third circle even before such an accomplishment could be signalized to
the local universe personalities concerned with such matters.

3. Upon the making of a supreme decision of unusual spiritual import. Such
human behavior in a personal planetary crisis usually is attended by the
immediate arrival of the waiting Adjuster.

4. The spirit of brotherhood. Regardless of the attainment of the psychic
circles and the assignment of personal guardians--in the absence of anything

                               top of page - 1188

resembling a crisis decision--when an evolving mortal becomes dominated by the
love of his fellows and consecrated to unselfish ministry to his brethren in
the flesh, the waiting Adjuster unvaryingly descends to indwell the mind of
such a mortal minister.

5. Declaration of intention to do the will of God. We observe that many mortals
on the worlds of space may be apparently in readiness to receive Adjusters, and
yet the Monitors do not appear. We go on watching such creatures as they live
from day to day, and presently they quietly, almost unconsciously, arrive at
the decision to begin the pursuit of the doing of the will of the Father in
heaven. And then we observe the immediate dispatch of the Thought Adjusters.

6. Influence of the Supreme Being. On worlds where the Adjusters do not fuse
with the evolving souls of the mortal inhabitants, we observe Adjusters
sometimes bestowed in response to influences which are wholly beyond our
comprehension. We conjecture that such bestowals are determined by some cosmic
reflex action originating in the Supreme Being. As to why these Adjusters can
not or do not fuse with these certain types of evolving mortal minds we do not
know. Such transactions have never been revealed to us.

3. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION

As far as we know, Adjusters are organized as an independent working unit in
the universe of universes and are apparently administered directly from
Divinington. They are uniform throughout the seven superuniverses, all local
universes being served by identical types of Mystery Monitors. We do know from
observation that there are numerous series of Adjusters involving a serial
organization that extends through races, over dispensations, and to worlds,
systems, and universes. It is, however, exceedingly difficult to keep track of
these divine gifts since they function interchangeably throughout the grand
universe.

Adjusters are of complete record (outside of Divinington) only on the
headquarters of the seven superuniverses. The number and order of each Adjuster
indwelling each ascending creature are reported out by the Paradise authorities
to the headquarters of the superuniverse, and from there are communicated to
the headquarters of the local universe concerned and relayed to the particular
planet involved. But the local universe records do not disclose the full number
of the Thought Adjusters; the Nebadon records contain only the local universe
assignment number as designated by the representatives of the Ancients of Days.
The real significance of the Adjuster's complete number is known only on
Divinington.

Human subjects are often known by the numbers of their Adjusters; mortals do
not receive real universe names until after Adjuster fusion, which union is
signalized by the bestowal of the new name upon the new creature by the destiny
guardian.

Though we have the records of Thought Adjusters in Orvonton, and though we have
absolutely no authority over them or administrative connection with them, we
firmly believe that there is a very close administrative connection between the
individual worlds of the local universes and the central lodgment of the divine
gifts on Divinington. We do know that, following the appearance

                               top of page - 1189

of a Paradise bestowal Son, an evolutionary world has a Personalized Adjuster
assigned to it as the planetary supervisor of Adjusters.

It is interesting to note that local universe inspectors always address
themselves, when carrying out a planetary examination, to the planetary chief
of Thought Adjusters, just as they deliver charges to the chiefs of seraphim
and to the leaders of other orders of beings attached to the administration of
an evolving world. Not long since, Urantia underwent such a periodic inspection
by Tabamantia, the sovereign supervisor of all life-experiment planets in the
universe of Nebadon. And the records reveal that, in addition to his
admonitions and indictments delivered to the various chiefs of superhuman
personalities, he also delivered the following acknowledgment to the chief of
Adjusters, whether located on the planet, on Salvington, Uversa, or
Divinington, we do not definitely know, but he said:

"Now to you, superiors far above me, I come as one placed in temporary
authority over the experimental planetary series; and I come to express
admiration and profound respect for this magnificent group of celestial
ministers, the Mystery Monitors, who have volunteered to serve on this
irregular sphere. No matter how trying the crises, you never falter. Not on the
records of Nebadon nor before the commissions of Orvonton has there ever been
offered an indictment of a divine Adjuster. You have been true to your trusts;
you have been divinely faithful. You have helped to adjust the mistakes and to
compensate for the shortcomings of all who labor on this confused planet. You
are marvelous beings, guardians of the good in the souls of this backward
realm. I pay you respect even while you are apparently under my jurisdiction as
volunteer ministers. I bow before you in humble recognition of your exquisite
unselfishness, your understanding ministry, and your impartial devotion. You
deserve the name of the Godlike servers of the mortal inhabitants of this
strife-torn, grief-stricken, and disease-afflicted world. I honor you! I all
but worship you!"

As a result of many suggestive lines of evidence, we believe that the Adjusters
are thoroughly organized, that there exists a profoundly intelligent and
efficient directive administration of these divine gifts from some far-distant
and central source, probably Divinington. We know that they come from
Divinington to the worlds, and undoubtedly they return thereto upon the deaths
of their subjects.

Among the higher spirit orders it is exceedingly difficult to discover the
mechanisms of administration. My order of personalities, while engaged in the
prosecution of our specific duties, is undoubtedly unconsciously participating
with numerous other personal and impersonal sub-Deity groups who unitedly are
functioning as far-flung universe correlators. We suspect that we are thus
serving because we are the only group of personalized creatures (aside from
Personalized Adjusters) who are uniformly conscious of the presence of numerous
orders of the prepersonal entities.

We are aware of the presence of the Adjusters, who are fragments of the
prepersonal Deity of the First Source and Center. We sense the presence of the
Inspired Trinity Spirits, who are superpersonal expressions of the Paradise
Trinity. We likewise unfailingly detect the spirit presence of certain
unrevealed orders springing from the Eternal Son and the Infinite Spirit. And
we are not wholly unresponsive to still other entities unrevealed to you.

                               top of page - 1190

The Melchizedeks of Nebadon teach that the Solitary Messengers are the
personality co-ordinators of these various influences as they register in the
expanding Deity of the evolutionary Supreme Being. It is very possible that we
may be participants in the experiential unification of many of the unexplained
phenomena of time, but we are not consciously certain of thus functioning.

4. RELATION TO OTHER SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES

Apart from possible co-ordination with other Deity fragments, the Adjusters are
quite alone in their sphere of activity in the mortal mind. The Mystery
Monitors eloquently bespeak the fact that, though the Father may have
apparently resigned the exercise of all direct personal power and authority
throughout the grand universe, notwithstanding this act of abnegation in behalf
of the Supreme Creator children of the Paradise Deities, the Father has
certainly reserved to himself the unchallengeable right to be present in the
minds and souls of his evolving creatures to the end that he may so act as to
draw all creature creation to himself, co-ordinately with the spiritual gravity
of the Paradise Sons. Said your Paradise bestowal Son when yet on Urantia, "I,
if I am lifted up, will draw all men." This spiritual drawing power of the
Paradise Sons and their creative associates we recognize and understand, but we
do not so fully comprehend the methods of the all-wise Father's functioning in
and through these Mystery Monitors that live and work so valiantly within the
human mind.

While not subordinate to, co-ordinate with, or apparently related to, the work
of the universe of universes, though acting independently in the minds of the
children of men, unceasingly do these mysterious presences urge the creatures
of their indwelling toward divine ideals, always luring them upward toward the
purposes and aims of a future and better life. These Mystery Monitors are
continually assisting in the establishment of the spiritual dominion of Michael
throughout the universe of Nebadon while mysteriously contributing to the
stabilization of the sovereignty of the Ancients of Days in Orvonton. The
Adjusters are the will of God, and since the Supreme Creator children of God
also personally embody that same will, it is inevitable that the actions of
Adjusters and the sovereignty of the universe rulers should be mutually
interdependent. Though apparently unconnected, the Father presence of the
Adjusters and the Father sovereignty of Michael of Nebadon must be diverse
manifestations of the same divinity.

Thought Adjusters appear to come and go quite independent of any and all other
spiritual presences; they seem to function in accordance with universe laws
quite apart from those which govern and control the performances of all other
spirit influences. But regardless of such apparent independence, long-range
observation unquestionably discloses that they function in the human mind in
perfect synchrony and co-ordination with all other spirit ministries, including
adjutant mind-spirits, Holy Spirit, Spirit of Truth, and other influences.

When a world is isolated by rebellion, when a planet is cut off from all
outside encircuited communication, as was Urantia after the Caligastia
upheaval, aside from personal messengers there remains but one possibility of
direct interplanetary or universe communication, and that is through the
liaison

                               top of page - 1191

of the Adjusters of the spheres. No matter what happens on a world or in a
universe, the Adjusters are never directly concerned. The isolation of a planet
in no way affects the Adjusters and their ability to communicate with any part
of the local universe, superuniverse, or the central universe. And this is the
reason why contacts with the supreme and the self-acting Adjusters of the
reserve corps of destiny are so frequently made on quarantined worlds. Recourse
is had to such a technique as a means of circumventing the handicaps of
planetary isolation. In recent years the archangels' circuit has functioned on
Urantia, but that means of communication is largely limited to the transactions
of the archangel corps itself.

We are cognizant of many spirit phenomena in the far-flung universe which we
are at a loss fully to understand. We are not yet masters of all that is
transpiring about us; and I believe that much of this inscrutable work is
wrought by the Gravity Messengers and certain types of Mystery Monitors. I do
not believe that Adjusters are devoted solely to the remaking of mortal minds.
I am persuaded that the Personalized Monitors and other orders of unrevealed
prepersonal spirits are representative of the Universal Father's direct and
unexplained contact with the creatures of the realms.

5. THE ADJUSTER'S MISSION

The Adjusters accept a difficult assignment when they volunteer to indwell such
composite beings as live on Urantia. But they have assumed the task of existing
in your minds, there to receive the admonitions of the spiritual intelligences
of the realms and then to undertake to redictate or translate these spiritual
messages to the material mind; they are indispensable to the Paradise
ascension.

What the Thought Adjuster cannot utilize in your present life, those truths
which he cannot successfully transmit to the man of his betrothal, he will
faithfully preserve for use in the next stage of existence, just as he now
carries over from circle to circle those items which he fails to register in
the experience of the human subject, owing to the creature's inability, or
failure, to give a sufficient degree of co-operation.

One thing you can depend upon: The Adjusters will never lose anything committed
to their care; never have we known these spirit helpers to default. Angels and
other high types of spirit beings, not excepting the local universe type of
Sons, may occasionally embrace evil, may sometimes depart from the divine way,
but Adjusters never falter. They are absolutely dependable, and this is equally
true of all seven groups.

Your Adjuster is the potential of your new and next order of existence, the
advance bestowal of your eternal sonship with God. By and with the consent of
your will, the Adjuster has the power to subject the creature trends of the
material mind to the transforming actions of the motivations and purposes of
the emerging morontial soul.

The Mystery Monitors are not thought helpers; they are thought adjusters. They
labor with the material mind for the purpose of constructing, by adjustment and
spiritualization, a new mind for the new worlds and the new name of your future
career. Their mission chiefly concerns the future life, not this life. They are
called heavenly helpers, not earthly helpers. They are not

                               top of page - 1192

interested in making the mortal career easy; rather are they concerned in
making your life reasonably difficult and rugged, so that decisions will be
stimulated and multiplied. The presence of a great Thought Adjuster does not
bestow ease of living and freedom from strenuous thinking, but such a divine
gift should confer a sublime peace of mind and a superb tranquillity of spirit.

Your transient and ever-changing emotions of joy and sorrow are in the main
purely human and material reactions to your internal psychic climate and to
your external material environment. Do not, therefore, look to the Adjuster for
selfish consolation and mortal comfort. It is the business of the Adjuster to
prepare you for the eternal adventure, to assure your survival. It is not the
mission of the Mystery Monitor to smooth your ruffled feelings or to minister
to your injured pride; it is the preparation of your soul for the long
ascending career that engages the attention and occupies the time of the
Adjuster.

I doubt that I am able to explain to you just what the Adjusters do in your
minds and for your souls. I do not know that I am fully cognizant of what is
really going on in the cosmic association of a divine Monitor and a human mind.
It is all somewhat of a mystery to us, not as to the plan and purpose but as to
the actual mode of accomplishment. And this is just why we are confronted with
such difficulty in finding an appropriate name for these supernal gifts to
mortal men.

The Thought Adjusters would like to change your feelings of fear to convictions
of love and confidence; but they cannot mechanically and arbitrarily do such
things; that is your task. In executing those decisions which deliver you from
the fetters of fear, you literally supply the psychic fulcrum on which the
Adjuster may subsequently apply a spiritual lever of uplifting and advancing
illumination.

When it comes to the sharp and well-defined conflicts between the higher and
lower tendencies of the races, between what really is right or wrong (not
merely what you may call right and wrong), you can depend upon it that the
Adjuster will always participate in some definite and active manner in such
experiences. The fact that such Adjuster activity may be unconscious to the
human partner does not in the least detract from its value and reality.

If you have a personal guardian of destiny and should fail of survival, that
guardian angel must be adjudicated in order to receive vindication as to the
faithful execution of her trust. But Thought Adjusters are not thus subjected
to examination when their subjects fail to survive. We all know that, while an
angel might possibly fall short of the perfection of ministry, Thought
Adjusters work in the manner of Paradise perfection; their ministry is
characterized by a flawless technique which is beyond the possibility of
criticism by any being outside of Divinington. You have perfect guides;
therefore is the goal of perfection certainly attainable.

6. GOD IN MAN

It is indeed a marvel of divine condescension for the exalted and perfect
Adjusters to offer themselves for actual existence in the minds of material
creatures, such as the mortals of Urantia, really to consummate a probationary
union with the animal-origin beings of earth.

                               top of page - 1193

No matter what the previous status of the inhabitants of a world, subsequent to
the bestowal of a divine Son and after the bestowal of the Spirit of Truth upon
all humans, the Adjusters flock to such a world to indwell the minds of all
normal will creatures. Following the completion of the mission of a Paradise
bestowal Son, these Monitors truly become the "kingdom of heaven within you."
Through the bestowal of the divine gifts the Father makes the closest possible
approach to sin and evil, for it is literally true that the Adjuster must
coexist in the mortal mind even in the very midst of human unrighteousness. The
indwelling Adjusters are particularly tormented by those thoughts which are
purely sordid and selfish; they are distressed by irreverence for that which is
beautiful and divine, and they are virtually thwarted in their work by many of
man's foolish animal fears and childish anxieties.

The Mystery Monitors are undoubtedly the bestowal of the Universal Father, the
reflection of the image of God abroad in the universe. A great teacher once
admonished men that they should be renewed in the spirit of their minds; that
they become new men who, like God, are created in righteousness and in the
completion of truth. The Adjuster is the mark of divinity, the presence of God.
The "image of God" does not refer to physical likeness nor to the circumscribed
limitations of material creature endowment but rather to the gift of the spirit
presence of the Universal Father in the supernal bestowal of the Thought
Adjusters upon the humble creatures of the universes.

The Adjuster is the wellspring of spiritual attainment and the hope of divine
character within you. He is the power, privilege, and the possibility of
survival, which so fully and forever distinguishes you from mere animal
creatures. He is the higher and truly internal spiritual stimulus of thought in
contrast with the external and physical stimulus, which reaches the mind over
the nerve-energy mechanism of the material body.

These faithful custodians of the future career unfailingly duplicate every
mental creation with a spiritual counterpart; they are thus slowly and surely
re-creating you as you really are (only spiritually) for resurrection on the
survival worlds. And all of these exquisite spirit re-creations are being
preserved in the emerging reality of your evolving and immortal soul, your
morontia self. These realities are actually there, notwithstanding that the
Adjuster is seldom able to exalt these duplicate creations sufficiently to
exhibit them to the light of consciousness.

And as you are the human parent, so is the Adjuster the divine parent of the
real you, your higher and advancing self, your better morontial and future
spiritual self. And it is this evolving morontial soul that the judges and
censors discern when they decree your survival and pass you upward to new
worlds and never-ending existence in eternal liaison with your faithful
partner--God, the Adjuster.

The Adjusters are the eternal ancestors, the divine originals, of your evolving
immortal souls; they are the unceasing urge that leads man to attempt the
mastery of the material and present existence in the light of the spiritual and
future career. The Monitors are the prisoners of undying hope, the founts of
everlasting progression. And how they do enjoy communicating with their
subjects in more or less direct channels! How they rejoice when they can
dispense with symbols and other methods of indirection and flash their messages
straight to the intellects of their human partners!

                               top of page - 1194

You humans have begun an endless unfolding of an almost infinite panorama, a
limitless expanding of never-ending, ever-widening spheres of opportunity for
exhilarating service, matchless adventure, sublime uncertainty, and boundless
attainment. When the clouds gather overhead, your faith should accept the fact
of the presence of the indwelling Adjuster, and thus you should be able to look
beyond the mists of mortal uncertainty into the clear shining of the sun of
eternal righteousness on the beckoning heights of the mansion worlds of
Satania.

[Presented by a Solitary Messenger of Orvonton.]

                               top of page - 1195

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³    Origin And    ³    Relation Of    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³     Natu...      ³      Adj...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
