      Urantia Book Paper 109 Relation Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                                      ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Paper 109 Relation Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE Thought Adjusters are the children of the universe career, and indeed the
virgin Adjusters must gain experience while mortal creatures grow and develop.
As the personality of the human child expands for the struggles of evolutionary
existence, so does the Adjuster wax great in the rehearsals of the next stage
of ascending life. As the child acquires adaptative versatility for his adult
activities through the social and play life of early childhood, so does the
indwelling Adjuster achieve skill for the next stage of cosmic life by virtue
of the preliminary mortal planning and rehearsing of those activities which
have to do with the morontia career. Human existence constitutes a period of
practice which is effectively utilized by the Adjuster in preparing for the
increased responsibilities and the greater opportunities of a future life. But
the Adjuster's efforts, while living within you, are not so much concerned with
the affairs of temporal life and planetary existence. Today, the Thought
Adjusters are, as it were, rehearsing the realities of the universe career in
the evolving minds of human beings.

1. DEVELOPMENT OF ADJUSTERS

There must be a comprehensive and elaborate plan for the training and
development of virgin Adjusters before they are sent forth from Divinington,
but we really do not know very much about it. There undoubtedly also exists an
extensive system for retraining Adjusters of indwelling experience before they
embark upon new missions of mortal association, but, again, we do not actually
know.

I have been told by Personalized Adjusters that every time a Monitor-indwelt
mortal fails of survival, when the Adjuster returns to Divinington, an extended
course of training is engaged in. This additional training is made possible by
the experience of having indwelt a human being, and it is always imparted
before the Adjuster is remanded to the evolutionary worlds of time.

Actual living experience has no cosmic substitute. The perfection of the
divinity of a newly formed Thought Adjuster does not in any manner endow this
Mystery Monitor with experienced ministrative ability. Experience is
inseparable from a living existence; it is the one thing which no amount of
divine endowment can absolve you from the necessity of securing by actual
living. Therefore, in common with all beings living and functioning within the
present sphere of the Supreme, Thought Adjusters must acquire experience; they
must evolve from the lower, inexperienced, to the higher, more experienced,
groups.

                               top of page - 1196

Adjusters pass through a definite developmental career in the mortal mind; they
achieve a reality of attainment which is eternally theirs. They progressively
acquire Adjuster skill and ability as a result of any and all contacts with the
material races, regardless of the survival or nonsurvival of their particular
mortal subjects. They are also equal partners of the human mind in fostering
the evolution of the immortal soul of survival capacity.

The first stage of Adjuster evolution is attained in fusion with the surviving
soul of a mortal being. Thus, while you are in nature evolving inward and
upward from man to God, the Adjusters are in nature evolving outward and
downward from God to man; and so will the final product of this union of
divinity and humanity eternally be the son of man and the son of God.

2. SELF-ACTING ADJUSTERS

You have been informed of the classification of Adjusters in relation to
experience--virgin, advanced, and supreme. You should also recognize a certain
functional classification--the self-acting Adjusters. A self-acting Adjuster is
one who:

1. Has had certain requisite experience in the evolving life of a will
creature, either as a temporary indweller on a type of world where Adjusters
are only loaned to mortal subjects or on an actual fusion planet where the
human failed of survival. Such a Monitor is either an advanced or a supreme
Adjuster.

2. Has acquired the balance of spiritual power in a human who has made the
third psychic circle and has had assigned to him a personal seraphic guardian.

3. Has a subject who has made the supreme decision, has entered into a solemn
and sincere betrothal with the Adjuster. The Adjuster looks beforehand to the
time of actual fusion and reckons the union as an event of fact.

4. Has a subject who has been mustered into one of the reserve corps of destiny
on an evolutionary world of mortal ascension.

5. At some time, during human sleep, has been temporarily detached from the
mind of mortal incarceration to perform some exploit of liaison, contact,
reregistration, or other extrahuman service associated with the spiritual
administration of the world of assignment.

6. Has served in a time of crisis in the experience of some human being who was
the material complement of a spirit personality intrusted with the enactment of
some cosmic achievement essential to the spiritual economy of the planet.

Self-acting Adjusters seem to possess a marked degree of will in all matters
not involving the human personalities of their immediate indwelling, as is
indicated by their numerous exploits both within and without the mortal
subjects of attachment. Such Adjusters participate in numerous activities of
the realm, but more frequently they function as undetected indwellers of the
earthly tabernacles of their own choosing.

Undoubtedly these higher and more experienced types of Adjusters can
communicate with those in other realms. But while self-acting Adjusters do thus
intercommunicate, they do so only on the levels of their mutual work and for
the purpose of preserving custodial data essential to the Adjuster ministry

                               top of page - 1197

of the realms of their sojourn, though on occasions they have been known to
function in interplanetary matters during times of crisis.

Supreme and self-acting Adjusters can leave the human body at will. The
indwellers are not an organic or biologic part of mortal life; they are divine
superimpositions thereon. In the original life plans they were provided for,
but they are not indispensable to material existence. Nevertheless it should be
recorded that they very rarely, even temporarily, leave their mortal
tabernacles after they once take up their indwelling.

The superacting Adjusters are those who have achieved the conquest of their
intrusted tasks and only await the dissolution of the material-life vehicle or
the translation of the immortal soul.

3. RELATION OF ADJUSTERS TO MORTAL TYPES

The character of the detailed work of Mystery Monitors varies in accordance
with the nature of their assignments, as to whether or not they are liaison or
fusion Adjusters. Some Adjusters are merely loaned for the temporal lifetimes
of their subjects; others are bestowed as personality candidates with
permission for everlasting fusion if their subjects survive. There is also a
slight variation in their work among the different planetary types as well as
in different systems and universes. But, on the whole, their labors are
remarkably uniform, more so than are the duties of any of the created orders of
celestial beings.

On certain primitive worlds (the series one group) the Adjuster indwells the
mind of the creature as an experiential training, chiefly for self-culture and
progressive development. Virgin Adjusters are usually sent to such worlds
during the earlier times when primitive men are arriving in the valley of
decision, but when comparatively few will elect to ascend the moral heights
beyond the hills of self-mastery and character acquirement to attain the higher
levels of emerging spirituality. (Many, however, who fail of Adjuster fusion do
survive as Spirit-fused ascenders.) The Adjusters receive valuable training and
acquire wonderful experience in transient association with primitive minds, and
they are able subsequently to utilize this experience for the benefit of
superior beings on other worlds. Nothing of survival value is ever lost in all
the wide universe.

On another type of world (the series two group) the Adjusters are merely loaned
to mortal beings. Here the Monitors can never attain fusion personality through
such indwelling, but they do afford great help to their human subjects during
the mortal lifetime, far more than they are able to give to Urantia mortals.
The Adjusters are here loaned to the mortal creatures for a single life span as
patterns for their higher spiritual attainment, temporary helpers in the
intriguing task of perfecting a survival character. The Adjusters do not return
after natural death; these surviving mortals attain eternal life through Spirit
fusion.

On worlds such as Urantia (the series three group) there is a real betrothal
with the divine gifts, a life and death engagement. If you survive, there is to
be an eternal union, an everlasting fusion, the making of man and Adjuster one
being.

In the three-brained mortals of this series of worlds, the Adjusters are able
to gain far more actual contact with their subjects during the temporal life
than in the one- and two-brained types. But in the career after death, the
three-brained type proceed just as do the one-brained type and the two-brained
peoples--the Urantia races.

                               top of page - 1198

On the two-brain worlds, subsequent to the sojourn of a Paradise bestowal Son,
virgin Adjusters are seldom assigned to persons who have unquestioned capacity
for survival. It is our belief that on such worlds practically all Adjusters
indwelling intelligent men and women of survival capacity belong to the
advanced or to the supreme type.

In many of the early evolutionary races of Urantia, three groups of beings
existed. There were those who were so animalistic that they were utterly
lacking in Adjuster capacity. There were those who exhibited undoubted capacity
for Adjusters and promptly received them when the age of moral responsibility
was attained. There was a third class who occupied a borderline position; they
had capacity for Adjuster reception, but the Monitors could only indwell the
mind on the personal petition of the individual.

But with those beings who are virtually disqualified for survival by
disinheritance through the agency of unfit and inferior ancestors, many a
virgin Adjuster has served a valuable preliminary experience in contacting
evolutionary mind and thus has become better qualified for a subsequent
assignment to a higher type of mind on some other world.

4. ADJUSTERS AND HUMAN PERSONALITY

The higher forms of intelligent intercommunication between human beings are
greatly helped by the indwelling Adjusters. Animals do have fellow feelings,
but they do not communicate concepts to each other; they can express emotions
but not ideas and ideals. Neither do men of animal origin experience a high
type of intellectual intercourse or spiritual communion with their fellows
until the Thought Adjusters have been bestowed, albeit, when such evolutionary
creatures develop speech, they are on the highroad to receiving Adjusters.

Animals do, in a crude way, communicate with each other, but there is little or
no personality in such primitive contact. Adjusters are not personality; they
are prepersonal beings. But they do hail from the source of personality, and
their presence does augment the qualitative manifestations of human
personality; especially is this true if the Adjuster has had previous
experience.

The type of Adjuster has much to do with the potential for expression of the
human personality. On down through the ages, many of the great intellectual and
spiritual leaders of Urantia have exerted their influence chiefly because of
the superiority and previous experience of their indwelling Adjusters.

The indwelling Adjusters have in no small measure co-operated with other
spiritual influences in transforming and humanizing the descendants of the
primitive men of olden ages. If the Adjusters indwelling the minds of the
inhabitants of Urantia were to be withdrawn, the world would slowly return to
many of the scenes and practices of the men of primitive times; the divine
Monitors are one of the real potentials of advancing civilization.

I have observed a Thought Adjuster indwelling a mind on Urantia who has,
according to the records on Uversa, indwelt fifteen minds previously in
Orvonton. We do not know whether this Monitor has had similar experiences in
other superuniverses, but I suspect so. This is a marvelous Adjuster and one of
the most useful and potent forces on Urantia during this present age. What
others have lost, in that they refused to survive, this human being (and your
whole

                               top of page - 1199

world) now gains. From him who has not survival qualities, shall be taken away
even that experienced Adjuster which he now has, while to him who has survival
prospects, shall be given even the pre-experienced Adjuster of a slothful
deserter.

In a sense the Adjusters may be fostering a certain degree of planetary
cross-fertilization in the domains of truth, beauty, and goodness. But they are
seldom given two indwelling experiences on the same planet; there is no
Adjuster now serving on Urantia who has been on this world previously. I know
whereof I speak since we have their numbers and records in the archives of
Uversa.

5. MATERIAL HANDICAPS TO ADJUSTER INDWELLING

Supreme and self-acting Adjusters are often able to contribute factors of
spiritual import to the human mind when it flows freely in the liberated but
controlled channels of creative imagination. At such times, and sometimes
during sleep, the Adjuster is able to arrest the mental currents, to stay the
flow, and then to divert the idea procession; and all this is done in order to
effect deep spiritual transformations in the higher recesses of the
superconsciousness. Thus are the forces and energies of mind more fully
adjusted to the key of the contactual tones of the spiritual level of the
present and the future.

It is sometimes possible to have the mind illuminated, to hear the divine voice
that continually speaks within you, so that you may become partially conscious
of the wisdom, truth, goodness, and beauty of the potential personality
constantly indwelling you.

But your unsteady and rapidly shifting mental attitudes often result in
thwarting the plans and interrupting the work of the Adjusters. Their work is
not only interfered with by the innate natures of the mortal races, but this
ministry is also greatly retarded by your own preconceived opinions, settled
ideas, and long-standing prejudices. Because of these handicaps, many times
only their unfinished creations emerge into consciousness, and confusion of
concept is inevitable. Therefore, in scrutinizing mental situations, safety
lies only in the prompt recognition of each and every thought and experience
for just what it actually and fundamentally is, disregarding entirely what it
might have been.

The great problem of life is the adjustment of the ancestral tendencies of
living to the demands of the spiritual urges initiated by the divine presence
of the Mystery Monitor. While in the universe and superuniverse careers no man
can serve two masters, in the life you now live on Urantia every man must
perforce serve two masters. He must become adept in the art of a continuous
human temporal compromise while he yields spiritual allegiance to but one
master; and this is why so many falter and fail, grow weary and succumb to the
stress of the evolutionary struggle.

While the hereditary legacy of cerebral endowment and that of electrochemical
overcontrol both operate to delimit the sphere of efficient Adjuster activity,
no hereditary handicap (in normal minds) ever prevents eventual spiritual
achievement. Heredity may interfere with the rate of personality conquest, but
it does not prevent eventual consummation of the ascendant adventure. If you
will co-operate with your Adjuster, the divine gift will, sooner or later,
evolve the immortal morontia soul and, subsequent to fusion therewith, will
present the new creature to the sovereign Master Son of the local universe and
eventually to the Father of Adjusters on Paradise.

                               top of page - 1200

6. THE PERSISTENCE OF TRUE VALUES

Adjusters never fail; nothing worth surviving is ever lost; every meaningful
value in every will creature is certain of survival, irrespective of the
survival or nonsurvival of the meaning-discovering or evaluating personality.
And so it is, a mortal creature may reject survival; still the life experience
is not wasted; the eternal Adjuster carries the worth-while features of such an
apparent life of failure over into some other world and there bestows these
surviving meanings and values upon some higher type of mortal mind, one of
survival capacity. No worth-while experience ever happens in vain; no true
meaning or real value ever perishes.

As related to fusion candidates, if a Mystery Monitor is deserted by the mortal
associate, if the human partner declines to pursue the ascending career, when
released by natural death (or prior thereto), the Adjuster carries away
everything of survival value which has evolved in the mind of that nonsurviving
creature. If an Adjuster should repeatedly fail to attain fusion personality
because of the nonsurvival of successive human subjects, and if this Monitor
should subsequently be personalized, all the acquired experience of having
indwelt and mastered all these mortal minds would become the actual possession
of such a newly Personalized Adjuster, an endowment to be enjoyed and utilized
throughout all future ages. A Personalized Adjuster of this order is a
composite assembly of all the survival traits of all his former creature hosts.

When Adjusters of long universe experience volunteer to indwell divine Sons on
bestowal missions, they full well know that personality attainment can never be
achieved through this service. But often does the Father of spirits grant
personality to these volunteers and establish them as directors of their kind.
These are the personalities honored with authority on Divinington. And their
unique natures embody the mosaic humanity of their multiple experiences of
mortal indwelling and also the spirit transcript of the human divinity of the
Paradise bestowal Son of the terminal indwelling experience.

                               top of page - 1201

The activities of Adjusters in your local universe are directed by the
Personalized Adjuster of Michael of Nebadon, that very Monitor who guided him
step by step when he lived his human life in the flesh of Joshua ben Joseph.
Faithful to his trust was this extraordinary Adjuster, and wisely did this
valiant Monitor direct the human nature, ever guiding the mortal mind of the
Paradise Son in the choosing of the path of the Father's perfect will. This
Adjuster had previously served with Machiventa Melchizedek in the days of
Abraham and had engaged in tremendous exploits both previous to this indwelling
and between these bestowal experiences.

This Adjuster did indeed triumph in Jesus' human mind--that mind which in each
of life's recurring situations maintained a consecrated dedication to the
Father's will, saying, "Not my will, but yours, be done." Such decisive
consecration constitutes the true passport from the limitations of human nature
to the finality of divine attainment.

This same Adjuster now reflects in the inscrutable nature of his mighty
personality the prebaptismal humanity of Joshua ben Joseph, the eternal and
living transcript of the eternal and living values which the greatest of all
Urantians created out of the humble circumstances of a commonplace life as it
was lived to the complete exhaustion of the spiritual values attainable in
mortal experience.

Everything of permanent value which is intrusted to an Adjuster is assured
eternal survival. In certain instances the Monitor holds these possessions for
bestowal on a mortal mind of future indwelling; in others, and upon
personalization, these surviving and conserved realities are held in trust for
future utilization in the service of the Architects of the Master Universe.

7. DESTINY OF PERSONALIZED ADJUSTERS

We cannot state whether or not non-Adjuster Father fragments are
personalizable, but you have been informed that personality is the sovereign
freewill bestowal of the Universal Father. As far as we know, the Adjuster type
of Father fragment attains personality only by the acquirement of personal
attributes through service-ministry to a personal being. These Personalized
Adjusters are at home on Divinington, where they instruct and direct their
prepersonal associates.

Personalized Thought Adjusters are the untrammeled, unassigned, and sovereign
stabilizers and compensators of the far-flung universe of universes. They
combine the Creator and creature experience--existential and experiential. They
are conjoint time and eternity beings. They associate the prepersonal and the
personal in universe administration.

Personalized Adjusters are the all-wise and powerful executives of the
Architects of the Master Universe. They are the personal agents of the full
ministry of the Universal Father--personal, prepersonal, and superpersonal.
They are the personal ministers of the extraordinary, the unusual, and the
unexpected throughout all the realms of the transcendental absonite spheres of
the domain of God the Ultimate, even to the levels of God the Absolute.

They are the exclusive beings of the universes who embrace within their being
all the known relationships of personality; they are omnipersonal--they are
before personality, they are personality, and they are after personality. They
minister the personality of the Universal Father as in the eternal past, the
eternal present, and the eternal future.

Existential personality on the order of the infinite and absolute, the Father
bestowed upon the Eternal Son, but he chose to reserve for his own ministry the
experiential personality of the type of the Personalized Adjuster bestowed upon
the existential prepersonal Adjuster; and they are thus both destined to the
future eternal superpersonality of the transcendental ministry of the absonite
realms of the Ultimate, the Supreme-Ultimate, even to the levels of the
Ultimate-Absolute.

Seldom are the Personalized Adjusters seen at large in the universes.
Occasionally they consult with the Ancients of Days, and sometimes the
Personalized Adjusters of the sevenfold Creator Sons come to the headquarters
worlds of the constellations to confer with the Vorondadek rulers.

When the planetary Vorondadek observer of Urantia--the Most High custodian who
not long since assumed an emergency regency of your world--asserted his
authority in the presence of the resident governor general, he began his
emergency administration of Urantia with a full staff of his own choosing. He
immediately assigned to all his associates and assistants their planetary
duties. But he did not choose the three Personalized Adjusters who appeared in
his presence the instant he assumed the regency. He did not even know they
would

                               top of page - 1202

thus appear, for they did not so manifest their divine presence at the time of
a previous regency. And the Most High regent did not assign service or
designate duties for these volunteer Personalized Adjusters. Nevertheless,
these three omnipersonal beings were among the most active of the numerous
orders of celestial beings then serving on Urantia.

Personalized Adjusters perform a wide range of services for numerous orders of
universe personalities, but we are not permitted to discuss these ministries
with Adjuster-indwelt evolutionary creatures. These extraordinary human
divinities are among the most remarkable personalities of the entire grand
universe, and no one dares to predict what their future missions may be.

[Presented by a Solitary Messenger of Orvonton.]

                               top of page - 1203

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   Mission And    ³    Relation Of    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Min...      ³      Adj...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
