      Urantia Book Paper 110 Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                                      ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Paper 110 Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE endowment of imperfect beings with freedom entails inevitable tragedy, and
it is the nature of the perfect ancestral Deity to universally and
affectionately share these sufferings in loving companionship.

As far as I am conversant with the affairs of a universe, I regard the love and
devotion of a Thought Adjuster as the most truly divine affection in all
creation. The love of the Sons in their ministry to the races is superb, but
the devotion of an Adjuster to the individual is touchingly sublime, divinely
Fatherlike. The Paradise Father has apparently reserved this form of personal
contact with his individual creatures as an exclusive Creator prerogative. And
there is nothing in all the universe of universes exactly comparable to the
marvelous ministry of these impersonal entities that so fascinatingly indwell
the children of the evolutionary planets.

1. INDWELLING THE MORTAL MIND

Adjusters should not be thought of as living in the material brains of human
beings. They are not organic parts of the physical creatures of the realms. The
Thought Adjuster may more properly be envisaged as indwelling the mortal mind
of man rather than as existing within the confines of a single physical organ.
And indirectly and unrecognized the Adjuster is constantly communicating with
the human subject, especially during those sublime experiences of the
worshipful contact of mind with spirit in the superconsciousness.

I wish it were possible for me to help evolving mortals to achieve a better
understanding and attain a fuller appreciation of the unselfish and superb work
of the Adjusters living within them, who are so devoutly faithful to the task
of fostering man's spiritual welfare. These Monitors are efficient ministers to
the higher phases of men's minds; they are wise and experienced manipulators of
the spiritual potential of the human intellect. These heavenly helpers are
dedicated to the stupendous task of guiding you safely inward and upward to the
celestial haven of happiness. These tireless toilers are consecrated to the
future personification of the triumph of divine truth in your life everlasting.
They are the watchful workers who pilot the God-conscious human mind away from
the shoals of evil while expertly guiding the evolving soul of man toward the
divine harbors of perfection on far-distant and eternal shores. The Adjusters
are loving leaders, your safe and sure guides through the dark and uncertain
mazes of your short earthly career; they are the patient teachers who so
constantly urge their subjects forward in the paths of progressive perfection.
They are the careful custodians of the sublime values of creature character. I
wish you could love them more, co-operate with them more fully, and cherish
them more affectionately.

                               top of page - 1204

Although the divine indwellers are chiefly concerned with your spiritual
preparation for the next stage of the never-ending existence, they are also
deeply interested in your temporal welfare and in your real achievements on
earth. They are delighted to contribute to your health, happiness, and true
prosperity. They are not indifferent to your success in all matters of
planetary advancement which are not inimical to your future life of eternal
progress.

Adjusters are interested in, and concerned with, your daily doings and the
manifold details of your life just to the extent that these are influential in
the determination of your significant temporal choices and vital spiritual
decisions and, hence, are factors in the solution of your problem of soul
survival and eternal progress. The Adjuster, while passive regarding purely
temporal welfare, is divinely active concerning all the affairs of your eternal
future.

The Adjuster remains with you in all disaster and through every sickness which
does not wholly destroy the mentality. But how unkind knowingly to defile or
otherwise deliberately to pollute the physical body, which must serve as the
earthly tabernacle of this marvelous gift from God. All physical poisons
greatly retard the efforts of the Adjuster to exalt the material mind, while
the mental poisons of fear, anger, envy, jealousy, suspicion, and intolerance
likewise tremendously interfere with the spiritual progress of the evolving
soul.

Today you are passing through the period of the courtship of your Adjuster; and
if you only prove faithful to the trust reposed in you by the divine spirit who
seeks your mind and soul in eternal union, there will eventually ensue that
morontia oneness, that supernal harmony, that cosmic co-ordination, that divine
attunement, that celestial fusion, that never-ending blending of identity, that
oneness of being which is so perfect and final that even the most experienced
personalities can never segregate or recognize as separate identities the
fusion partners--mortal man and divine Adjuster.

2. ADJUSTERS AND HUMAN WILL

When Thought Adjusters indwell human minds, they bring with them the model
careers, the ideal lives, as determined and foreordained by themselves and the
Personalized Adjusters of Divinington, which have been certified by the
Personalized Adjuster of Urantia. Thus they begin work with a definite and
predetermined plan for the intellectual and spiritual development of their
human subjects, but it is not incumbent upon any human being to accept this
plan. You are all subjects of predestination, but it is not foreordained that
you must accept this divine predestination; you are at full liberty to reject
any part or all of the Thought Adjusters' program. It is their mission to
effect such mind changes and to make such spiritual adjustments as you may
willingly and intelligently authorize, to the end that they may gain more
influence over the personality directionization; but under no circumstances do
these divine Monitors ever take advantage of you or in any way arbitrarily
influence you in your choices and decisions. The Adjusters respect your
sovereignty of personality; they are always subservient to your will.

They are persistent, ingenious, and perfect in their methods of work, but they
never do violence to the volitional selfhood of their hosts. No human being
will ever be spiritualized by a divine Monitor against his will; survival is a
gift of the Gods which must be desired by the creatures of time. In the final
analysis,

                               top of page - 1205

whatever the Adjuster has succeeded in doing for you, the records will show
that the transformation has been accomplished with your co-operative consent;
you will have been a willing partner with the Adjuster in the attainment of
every step of the tremendous transformation of the ascension career.

The Adjuster is not trying to control your thinking, as such, but rather to
spiritualize it, to eternalize it. Neither angels nor Adjusters are devoted
directly to influencing human thought; that is your exclusive personality
prerogative. The Adjusters are dedicated to improving, modifying, adjusting,
and co-ordinating your thinking processes; but more especially and specifically
they are devoted to the work of building up spiritual counterparts of your
careers, morontia transcripts of your true advancing selves, for survival
purposes.

Adjusters work in the spheres of the higher levels of the human mind,
unceasingly seeking to produce morontia duplicates of every concept of the
mortal intellect. There are, therefore, two realities which impinge upon, and
are centered in, the human mind circuits: one, a mortal self evolved from the
original plans of the Life Carriers, the other, an immortal entity from the
high spheres of Divinington, an indwelling gift from God. But the mortal self
is also a personal self; it has personality.

You as a personal creature have mind and will. The Adjuster as a prepersonal
creature has premind and prewill. If you so fully conform to the Adjuster's
mind that you see eye to eye, then your minds become one, and you receive the
reinforcement of the Adjuster's mind. Subsequently, if your will orders and
enforces the execution of the decisions of this new or combined mind, the
Adjuster's prepersonal will attains to personality expression through your
decision, and as far as that particular project is concerned, you and the
Adjuster are one. Your mind has attained to divinity attunement, and the
Adjuster's will has achieved personality expression.

To the extent that this identity is realized, you are mentally approaching the
morontia order of existence. Morontia mind is a term signifying the substance
and sum total of the co-operating minds of diversely material and spiritual
natures. Morontia intellect, therefore, connotes a dual mind in the local
universe dominated by one will. And with mortals this is a will, human in
origin, which is becoming divine through man's identification of the human mind
with the mindedness of God.

3. CO-OPERATION WITH THE ADJUSTER

Adjusters are playing the sacred and superb game of the ages; they are engaged
in one of the supreme adventures of time in space. And how happy they are when
your co-operation permits them to lend assistance in your short struggles of
time as they continue to prosecute their larger tasks of eternity. But usually,
when your Adjuster attempts to communicate with you, the message is lost in the
material currents of the energy streams of human mind; only occasionally do you
catch an echo, a faint and distant echo, of the divine voice.

The success of your Adjuster in the enterprise of piloting you through the
mortal life and bringing about your survival depends not so much on the
theories of your beliefs as upon your decisions, determinations, and steadfast
faith. All these movements of personality growth become powerful influences
aiding in your advancement because they help you to co-operate with the
Adjuster; they assist you in ceasing to resist. Thought Adjusters succeed or
apparently fail in

                               top of page - 1206

their terrestrial undertakings just in so far as mortals succeed or fail to
co-operate with the scheme whereby they are to be advanced along the ascending
path of perfection attainment. The secret of survival is wrapped up in the
supreme human desire to be Godlike and in the associated willingness to do and
be any and all things which are essential to the final attainment of that
overmastering desire.

When we speak of an Adjuster's success or failure, we are speaking in terms of
human survival. Adjusters never fail; they are of the divine essence, and they
always emerge triumphant in each of their undertakings.

I cannot but observe that so many of you spend so much time and thought on mere
trifles of living, while you almost wholly overlook the more essential
realities of everlasting import, those very accomplishments which are concerned
with the development of a more harmonious working agreement between you and
your Adjusters. The great goal of human existence is to attune to the divinity
of the indwelling Adjuster; the great achievement of mortal life is the
attainment of a true and understanding consecration to the eternal aims of the
divine spirit who waits and works within your mind. But a devoted and
determined effort to realize eternal destiny is wholly compatible with a
light-hearted and joyous life and with a successful and honorable career on
earth. Co-operation with the Thought Adjuster does not entail self-torture,
mock piety, or hypocritical and ostentatious self-abasement; the ideal life is
one of loving service rather than an existence of fearful apprehension.

Confusion, being puzzled, even sometimes discouraged and distracted, does not
necessarily signify resistance to the leadings of the indwelling Adjuster. Such
attitudes may sometimes connote lack of active co-operation with the divine
Monitor and may, therefore, somewhat delay spiritual progress, but such
intellectual emotional difficulties do not in the least interfere with the
certain survival of the God-knowing soul. Ignorance alone can never prevent
survival; neither can confusional doubts nor fearful uncertainty. Only
conscious resistance to the Adjuster's leading can prevent the survival of the
evolving immortal soul.

You must not regard co-operation with your Adjuster as a particularly conscious
process, for it is not; but your motives and your decisions, your faithful
determinations and your supreme desires, do constitute real and effective
co-operation. You can consciously augment Adjuster harmony by:

1. Choosing to respond to divine leading; sincerely basing the human life on
the highest consciousness of truth, beauty, and goodness, and then
co-ordinating these qualities of divinity through wisdom, worship, faith, and
love.

2. Loving God and desiring to be like him--genuine recognition of the divine
fatherhood and loving worship of the heavenly Parent.

3. Loving man and sincerely desiring to serve him--wholehearted recognition of
the brotherhood of man coupled with an intelligent and wise affection for each
of your fellow mortals.

4. Joyful acceptance of cosmic citizenship--honest recognition of your
progressive obligations to the Supreme Being, awareness of the interdependence
of evolutionary man and evolving Deity. This is the birth of cosmic morality
and the dawning realization of universal duty.

                               top of page - 1207

4. THE ADJUSTER'S WORK IN THE MIND

Adjusters are able to receive the continuous stream of cosmic intelligence
coming in over the master circuits of time and space; they are in full touch
with the spirit intelligence and energy of the universes. But these mighty
indwellers are unable to transmit very much of this wealth of wisdom and truth
to the minds of their mortal subjects because of the lack of commonness of
nature and the absence of responsive recognition.

The Thought Adjuster is engaged in a constant effort so to spiritualize your
mind as to evolve your morontia soul; but you yourself are mostly unconscious
of this inner ministry. You are quite incapable of distinguishing the product
of your own material intellect from that of the conjoint activities of your
soul and the Adjuster.

Certain abrupt presentations of thoughts, conclusions, and other pictures of
mind are sometimes the direct or indirect work of the Adjuster; but far more
often they are the sudden emergence into consciousness of ideas which have been
grouping themselves together in the submerged mental levels, natural and
everyday occurrences of normal and ordinary psychic function inherent in the
circuits of the evolving animal mind. (In contrast with these subconscious
emanations, the revelations of the Adjuster appear through the realms of the
superconscious.)

Trust all matters of mind beyond the dead level of consciousness to the custody
of the Adjusters. In due time, if not in this world then on the mansion worlds,
they will give good account of their stewardship, and eventually will they
bring forth those meanings and values intrusted to their care and keeping. They
will resurrect every worthy treasure of the mortal mind if you survive.

There exists a vast gulf between the human and the divine, between man and God.
The Urantia races are so largely electrically and chemically controlled, so
highly animallike in their common behavior, so emotional in their ordinary
reactions, that it becomes exceedingly difficult for the Monitors to guide and
direct them. You are so devoid of courageous decisions and consecrated
co-operation that your indwelling Adjusters find it next to impossible to
communicate directly with the human mind. Even when they do find it possible to
flash a gleam of new truth to the evolving mortal soul, this spiritual
revelation often so blinds the creature as to precipitate a convulsion of
fanaticism or to initiate some other intellectual upheaval which results
disastrously. Many a new religion and strange "ism" has arisen from the
aborted, imperfect, misunderstood, and garbled communications of the Thought
Adjusters.

For many thousands of years, so the records of Jerusem show, in each generation
there have lived fewer and fewer beings who could function safely with
self-acting Adjusters. This is an alarming picture, and the supervising
personalities of Satania look with favor upon the proposals of some of your
more immediate planetary supervisors who advocate the inauguration of measures
designed to foster and conserve the higher spiritual types of the Urantia
races.

5. ERRONEOUS CONCEPTS OF ADJUSTER GUIDANCE

Do not confuse and confound the mission and influence of the Adjuster with what
is commonly called conscience; they are not directly related. Conscience

                               top of page - 1208

is a human and purely psychic reaction. It is not to be despised, but it is
hardly the voice of God to the soul, which indeed the Adjuster's would be if
such a voice could be heard. Conscience, rightly, admonishes you to do right;
but the Adjuster, in addition, endeavors to tell you what truly is right; that
is, when and as you are able to perceive the Monitor's leading.

Man's dream experiences, that disordered and disconnected parade of the
un-co-ordinated sleeping mind, present adequate proof of the failure of the
Adjusters to harmonize and associate the divergent factors of the mind of man.
The Adjusters simply cannot, in a single lifetime, arbitrarily co-ordinate and
synchronize two such unlike and diverse types of thinking as the human and the
divine. When they do, as they sometimes have, such souls are translated
directly to the mansion worlds without the necessity of passing through the
experience of death.

During the slumber season the Adjuster attempts to achieve only that which the
will of the indwelt personality has previously fully approved by the decisions
and choosings which were made during times of fully wakeful consciousness, and
which have thereby become lodged in the realms of the supermind, the liaison
domain of human and divine interrelationship.

While their mortal hosts are asleep, the Adjusters try to register their
creations in the higher levels of the material mind, and some of your grotesque
dreams indicate their failure to make efficient contact. The absurdities of
dream life not only testify to pressure of unexpressed emotions but also bear
witness to the horrible distortion of the representations of the spiritual
concepts presented by the Adjusters. Your own passions, urges, and other innate
tendencies translate themselves into the picture and substitute their
unexpressed desires for the divine messages which the indwellers are
endeavoring to put into the psychic records during unconscious sleep.

It is extremely dangerous to postulate as to the Adjuster content of the dream
life. The Adjusters do work during sleep, but your ordinary dream experiences
are purely physiologic and psychologic phenomena. Likewise, it is hazardous to
attempt the differentiation of the Adjusters' concept registry from the more or
less continuous and conscious reception of the dictations of mortal conscience.
These are problems which will have to be solved through individual
discrimination and personal decision. But a human being would do better to err
in rejecting an Adjuster's expression through believing it to be a purely human
experience than to blunder into exalting a reaction of the mortal mind to the
sphere of divine dignity. Remember, the influence of a Thought Adjuster is for
the most part, though not wholly, a superconscious experience.

In varying degrees and increasingly as you ascend the psychic circles,
sometimes directly, but more often indirectly, you do communicate with your
Adjusters. But it is dangerous to entertain the idea that every new concept
originating in the human mind is the dictation of the Adjuster. More often, in
beings of your order, that which you accept as the Adjuster's voice is in
reality the emanation of your own intellect. This is dangerous ground, and
every human being must settle these problems for himself in accordance with his
natural human wisdom and superhuman insight.

The Adjuster of the human being through whom this communication is being made
enjoys such a wide scope of activity chiefly because of this human's almost
complete indifference to any outward manifestations of the Adjuster's inner

                               top of page - 1209

presence; it is indeed fortunate that he remains consciously quite unconcerned
about the entire procedure. He holds one of the highly experienced Adjusters of
his day and generation, and yet his passive reaction to, and inactive concern
toward, the phenomena associated with the presence in his mind of this
versatile Adjuster is pronounced by the guardian of destiny to be a rare and
fortuitous reaction. And all this constitutes a favorable co-ordination of
influences, favorable both to the Adjuster in the higher sphere of action and
to the human partner from the standpoints of health, efficiency, and
tranquillity.

6. THE SEVEN PSYCHIC CIRCLES

The sum total of personality realization on a material world is contained
within the successive conquest of the seven psychic circles of mortal
potentiality. Entrance upon the seventh circle marks the beginning of true
human personality function. Completion of the first circle denotes the relative
maturity of the mortal being. Though the traversal of the seven circles of
cosmic growth does not equal fusion with the Adjuster, the mastery of these
circles marks the attainment of those steps which are preliminary to Adjuster
fusion.

The Adjuster is your equal partner in the attainment of the seven circles--the
achievement of comparative mortal maturity. The Adjuster ascends the circles
with you from the seventh to the first but progresses to the status of
supremacy and self-activity quite independent of the active co-operation of the
mortal mind.

The psychic circles are not exclusively intellectual, neither are they wholly
morontial; they have to do with personality status, mind attainment, soul
growth, and Adjuster attunement. The successful traversal of these levels
demands the harmonious functioning of the entire personality, not merely of
some one phase thereof. The growth of the parts does not equal the true
maturation of the whole; the parts really grow in proportion to the expansion
of the entire self--the whole self--material, intellectual, and spiritual.

When the development of the intellectual nature proceeds faster than that of
the spiritual, such a situation renders communication with the Thought Adjuster
both difficult and dangerous. Likewise, overspiritual development tends to
produce a fanatical and perverted interpretation of the spirit leadings of the
divine indweller. Lack of spiritual capacity makes it very difficult to
transmit to such a material intellect the spiritual truths resident in the
higher superconsciousness. It is to the mind of perfect poise, housed in a body
of clean habits, stabilized neural energies, and balanced chemical
function--when the physical, mental, and spiritual powers are in triune harmony
of development--that a maximum of light and truth can be imparted with a
minimum of temporal danger or risk to the real welfare of such a being. By such
a balanced growth does man ascend the circles of planetary progression one by
one, from the seventh to the first.

The Adjusters are always near you and of you, but rarely can they speak
directly, as another being, to you. Circle by circle your intellectual
decisions, moral choosings, and spiritual development add to the ability of the
Adjuster to function in your mind; circle by circle you thereby ascend from the
lower stages of Adjuster association and mind attunement, so that the Adjuster
is increasingly enabled to register his picturizations of destiny with
augmenting vividness and conviction upon the evolving consciousness of this
God-seeking mind-soul.

                               top of page - 1210

Every decision you make either impedes or facilitates the function of the
Adjuster; likewise do these very decisions determine your advancement in the
circles of human achievement. It is true that the supremacy of a decision, its
crisis relationship, has a great deal to do with its circle-making influence;
nevertheless, numbers of decisions, frequent repetitions, persistent
repetitions, are also essential to the habit-forming certainty of such
reactions.

It is difficult precisely to define the seven levels of human progression, for
the reason that these levels are personal; they are variable for each
individual and are apparently determined by the growth capacity of each human
being. The conquest of these levels of cosmic evolution is reflected in three
ways:

1. Adjuster attunement. The spiritizing mind nears the Adjuster presence
proportional to circle attainment.

2. Soul evolution. The emergence of the morontia soul indicates the extent and
depth of circle mastery.

3. Personality reality. The degree of selfhood reality is directly determined
by circle conquest. Persons become more real as they ascend from the seventh to
the first level of mortal existence.

As the circles are traversed, the child of material evolution is growing into
the mature human of immortal potentiality. The shadowy reality of the embryonic
nature of a seventh circler is giving way to the clearer manifestation of the
emerging morontia nature of a local universe citizen.

While it is impossible precisely to define the seven levels, or psychic
circles, of human growth, it is permissible to suggest the minimum and maximum
limits of these stages of maturity realization:

The seventh circle. This level is entered when human beings develop the powers
of personal choice, individual decision, moral responsibility, and the capacity
for the attainment of spiritual individuality. This signifies the united
function of the seven adjutant mind-spirits under the direction of the spirit
of wisdom, the encircuitment of the mortal creature in the influence of the
Holy Spirit, and, on Urantia, the first functioning of the Spirit of Truth,
together with the reception of a Thought Adjuster in the mortal mind. Entrance
upon the seventh circle constitutes a mortal creature a truly potential citizen
of the local universe.

The third circle. The Adjuster's work is much more effective after the human
ascender attains the third circle and receives a personal seraphic guardian of
destiny. While there is no apparent concert of effort between the Adjuster and
the seraphic guardian, nonetheless there is to be observed an unmistakable
improvement in all phases of cosmic achievement and spiritual development
subsequent to the assignment of the personal seraphic attendant. When the third
circle is attained, the Adjuster endeavors to morontiaize the mind of man
during the remainder of the mortal life span, to make the remaining circles,
and achieve the final stage of the divine-human association before natural
death dissolves the unique partnership.

The first circle. The Adjuster cannot, ordinarily, speak directly and
immediately with you until you attain the first and final circle of progressive
mortal achievement. This level represents the highest possible realization of
mind-Adjuster relationship in the human experience prior to the liberation of
the evolving morontia soul from the habiliments of the material body.
Concerning mind,

                               top of page - 1211

emotions, and cosmic insight, this achievement of the first psychic circle is
the nearest possible approach of material mind and spirit Adjuster in human
experience.

Perhaps these psychic circles of mortal progression would be better denominated
cosmic levels--actual meaning grasps and value realizations of progressive
approach to the morontia consciousness of initial relationship of the
evolutionary soul with the emerging Supreme Being. And it is this very
relationship that makes it forever impossible fully to explain the significance
of the cosmic circles to the material mind. These circle attainments are only
relatively related to God-consciousness. A seventh or sixth circler can be
almost as truly God-knowing--sonship conscious--as a second or first circler,
but such lower circle beings are far less conscious of experiential relation to
the Supreme Being, universe citizenship. The attainment of these cosmic circles
will become a part of the ascenders' experience on the mansion worlds if they
fail of such achievement before natural death.

The motivation of faith makes experiential the full realization of man's
sonship with God, but action, completion of decisions, is essential to the
evolutionary attainment of consciousness of progressive kinship with the cosmic
actuality of the Supreme Being. Faith transmutes potentials to actuals in the
spiritual world, but potentials become actuals in the finite realms of the
Supreme only by and through the realization of choice-experience. But choosing
to do the will of God joins spiritual faith to material decisions in
personality action and thus supplies a divine and spiritual fulcrum for the
more effective functioning of the human and material leverage of God-hunger.
Such a wise co-ordination of material and spiritual forces greatly augments
both cosmic realization of the Supreme and morontia comprehension of the
Paradise Deities.

The mastery of the cosmic circles is related to the quantitative growth of the
morontia soul, the comprehension of supreme meanings. But the qualitative
status of this immortal soul is wholly dependent on the grasp of living faith
upon the Paradise-potential fact-value that mortal man is a son of the eternal
God. Therefore does a seventh circler go on to the mansion worlds to attain
further quantitative realization of cosmic growth just as does a second or even
a first circler.

There is only an indirect relation between cosmic-circle attainment and actual
spiritual religious experience; such attainments are reciprocal and therefore
mutually beneficial. Purely spiritual development may have little to do with
planetary material prosperity, but circle attainment always augments the
potential of human success and mortal achievement.

From the seventh to the third circle there occurs increased and unified action
of the seven adjutant mind-spirits in the task of weaning the mortal mind from
its dependence on the realities of the material life mechanisms preparatory to
increased introduction to morontia levels of experience. From the third circle
onward the adjutant influence progressively diminishes.

The seven circles embrace mortal experience extending from the highest purely
animal level to the lowest actual contactual morontia level of
self-consciousness as a personality experience. The mastery of the first cosmic
circle signalizes the attainment of premorontia mortal maturity and marks the
termination of the conjoint ministry of the adjutant mind-spirits as an
exclusive influence of mind action in the human personality. Beyond the first
circle, mind

                               top of page - 1212

becomes increasingly akin to the intelligence of the morontia stage of
evolution, the conjoined ministry of the cosmic mind and the superadjutant
endowment of the Creative Spirit of a local universe.

The great days in the individual careers of Adjusters are: first, when the
human subject breaks through into the third psychic circle, thus insuring the
Monitor's self-activity and increased range of function (provided the indweller
was not already self-acting); then, when the human partner attains the first
psychic circle, and they are thereby enabled to intercommunicate, at least to
some degree; and last, when they are finally and eternally fused.

7. THE ATTAINMENT OF IMMORTALITY

The achievement of the seven cosmic circles does not equal Adjuster fusion.
There are many mortals living on Urantia who have attained their circles; but
fusion depends on yet other greater and more sublime spiritual achievements,
upon the attainment of a final and complete attunement of the mortal will with
the will of God as it is resident in the Thought Adjuster.

When a human being has completed the circles of cosmic achievement, and
further, when the final choosing of the mortal will permits the Adjuster to
complete the association of human identity with the morontial soul during
evolutionary and physical life, then do such consummated liaisons of soul and
Adjuster go on independently to the mansion worlds, and there is issued the
mandate from Uversa which provides for the immediate fusion of the Adjuster and
the morontial soul. This fusion during physical life instantly consumes the
material body; the human beings who might witness such a spectacle would only
observe the translating mortal disappear "in chariots of fire."

Most Adjusters who have translated their subjects from Urantia were highly
experienced and of record as previous indwellers of numerous mortals on other
spheres. Remember, Adjusters gain valuable indwelling experience on planets of
the loan order; it does not follow that Adjusters only gain experience for
advanced work in those mortal subjects who fail to survive.

Subsequent to mortal fusion the Adjusters share your destiny and experience;
they are you. After the fusion of the immortal morontia soul and the associated
Adjuster, all of the experience and all of the values of the one eventually
become the possession of the other, so that the two are actually one entity. In
a certain sense, this new being is of the eternal past as well as for the
eternal future. All that was once human in the surviving soul and all that is
experientially divine in the Adjuster now become the actual possession of the
new and ever-ascending universe personality. But on each universe level the
Adjuster can endow the new creature only with those attributes which are
meaningful and of value on that level. An absolute oneness with the divine
Monitor, a complete exhaustion of the endowment of an Adjuster, can only be
achieved in eternity subsequent to the final attainment of the Universal
Father, the Father of spirits, ever the source of these divine gifts.

When the evolving soul and the divine Adjuster are finally and eternally fused,
each gains all of the experiencible qualities of the other. This co-ordinate
personality possesses all of the experiential memory of survival once held by
the ancestral mortal mind and then resident in the morontia soul, and in
addition thereto this potential finaliter embraces all the experiential memory
of the

                               top of page - 1213

Adjuster throughout the mortal indwellings of all time. But it will require an
eternity of the future for an Adjuster ever completely to endow the personality
partnership with the meanings and values which the divine Monitor carries
forward from the eternity of the past.

But with the vast majority of Urantians the Adjuster must patiently await the
arrival of death deliverance; must await the liberation of the emerging soul
from the well-nigh complete domination of the energy patterns and chemical
forces inherent in your material order of existence. The chief difficulty you
experience in contacting with your Adjusters consists in this very inherent
material nature. So few mortals are real thinkers; you do not spiritually
develop and discipline your minds to the point of favorable liaison with the
divine Adjusters. The ear of the human mind is almost deaf to the spiritual
pleas which the Adjuster translates from the manifold messages of the universal
broadcasts of love proceeding from the Father of mercies. The Adjuster finds it
almost impossible to register these inspiring spirit leadings in an animal mind
so completely dominated by the chemical and electrical forces inherent in your
physical natures.

Adjusters rejoice to make contact with the mortal mind; but they must be
patient through the long years of silent sojourn during which they are unable
to break through animal resistance and directly communicate with you. The
higher the Thought Adjusters ascend in the scale of service, the more efficient
they become. But never can they greet you, in the flesh, with the same full,
sympathetic, and expressionful affection as they will when you discern them
mind to mind on the mansion worlds.

During mortal life the material body and mind separate you from your Adjuster
and prevent free communication; subsequent to death, after the eternal fusion,
you and the Adjuster are one--you are not distinguishable as separate
beings--and thus there exists no need for communication as you would understand
it.

While the voice of the Adjuster is ever within you, most of you will hear it
seldom during a lifetime. Human beings below the third and second circles of
attainment rarely hear the Adjuster's direct voice except in moments of supreme
desire, in a supreme situation, and consequent upon a supreme decision.

During the making and breaking of a contact between the mortal mind of a
destiny reservist and the planetary supervisors, sometimes the indwelling
Adjuster is so situated that it becomes possible to transmit a message to the
mortal partner. Not long since, on Urantia, such a message was transmitted by a
self-acting Adjuster to the human associate, a member of the reserve corps of
destiny. This message was introduced by these words: "And now, without injury
or jeopardy to the subject of my solicitous devotion and without intent to
overchastise or discourage, for me, make record of this my plea to him." Then
followed a beautifully touching and appealing admonition. Among other things,
the Adjuster pleaded "that he more faithfully give me his sincere co-operation,
more cheerfully endure the tasks of my emplacement, more faithfully carry out
the program of my arrangement, more patiently go through the trials of my
selection, more persistently and cheerfully tread the path of my choosing, more
humbly receive credit that may accrue as a result of my ceaseless
endeavors--thus transmit my admonition to the man of my indwell-

                               top of page - 1214

ing. Upon him I bestow the supreme devotion and affection of a divine spirit.
And say further to my beloved subject that I will function with wisdom and
power until the very end, until the last earth struggle is over; I will be true
to my personality trust. And I exhort him to survival, not to disappoint me,
not to deprive me of the reward of my patient and intense struggle. On the
human will our achievement of personality depends. Circle by circle I have
patiently ascended this human mind, and I have testimony that I am meeting the
approval of the chief of my kind. Circle by circle I am passing on to judgment.
I await with pleasure and without apprehension the roll call of destiny; I am
prepared to submit all to the tribunals of the Ancients of Days."

[Presented by a Solitary Messenger of Orvonton.]

                               top of page - 1215

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   Relation Of    ³   The Adjuster    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Adj...      ³       An...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
