              Urantia Book Paper 111 The Adjuster And The Soul
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                            The Adjuster And The Soul
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Paper 111 The Adjuster And The Soul

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE presence of the divine Adjuster in the human mind makes it forever
impossible for either science or philosophy to attain a satisfactory
comprehension of the evolving soul of the human personality. The morontia soul
is the child of the universe and may be really known only through cosmic
insight and spiritual discovery.

The concept of a soul and of an indwelling spirit is not new to Urantia; it has
frequently appeared in the various systems of planetary beliefs. Many of the
Oriental as well as some of the Occidental faiths have perceived that man is
divine in heritage as well as human in inheritance. The feeling of the inner
presence in addition to the external omnipresence of Deity has long formed a
part of many Urantian religions. Men have long believed that there is something
growing within the human nature, something vital that is destined to endure
beyond the short span of temporal life.

Before man realized that his evolving soul was fathered by a divine spirit, it
was thought to reside in different physical organs--the eye, liver, kidney,
heart, and later, the brain. The savage associated the soul with blood, breath,
shadows and with reflections of the self in water.

In the conception of the atman the Hindu teachers really approximated an
appreciation of the nature and presence of the Adjuster, but they failed to
distinguish the copresence of the evolving and potentially immortal soul. The
Chinese, however, recognized two aspects of a human being, the yang and the
yin, the soul and the spirit. The Egyptians and many African tribes also
believed in two factors, the ka and the ba; the soul was not usually believed
to be pre-existent, only the spirit.

The inhabitants of the Nile valley believed that each favored individual had
bestowed upon him at birth, or soon thereafter, a protecting spirit which they
called the ka. They taught that this guardian spirit remained with the mortal
subject throughout life and passed before him into the future estate. On the
walls of a temple at Luxor, where is depicted the birth of Amenhotep III, the
little prince is pictured on the arm of the Nile god, and near him is another
child, in appearance identical with the prince, which is a symbol of that
entity which the Egyptians called the ka. This sculpture was completed in the
fifteenth century before Christ.

The ka was thought to be a superior spirit genius which desired to guide the
associated mortal soul into the better paths of temporal living but more
especially to influence the fortunes of the human subject in the hereafter.
When an Egyptian of this period died, it was expected that his ka would be
waiting for him on the other side of the Great River. At first, only kings were
supposed to have kas, but presently all righteous men were believed to possess
them.

                               top of page - 1216

One Egyptian ruler, speaking of the ka within his heart, said: "I did not
disregard its speech; I feared to transgress its guidance. I prospered thereby
greatly; I was thus successful by reason of that which it caused me to do; I
was distinguished by its guidance." Many believed that the ka was "an oracle
from God in everybody." Many believed that they were to "spend eternity in
gladness of heart in the favor of the God that is in you."

Every race of evolving Urantia mortals has a word equivalent to the concept of
soul. Many primitive peoples believed the soul looked out upon the world
through human eyes; therefore did they so cravenly fear the malevolence of the
evil eye. They have long believed that "the spirit of man is the lamp of the
Lord." The Rig-Veda says: "My mind speaks to my heart."

1. THE MIND ARENA OF CHOICE

Though the work of Adjusters is spiritual in nature, they must, perforce, do
all their work upon an intellectual foundation. Mind is the human soil from
which the spirit Monitor must evolve the morontia soul with the co-operation of
the indwelt personality.

There is a cosmic unity in the several mind levels of the universe of
universes. Intellectual selves have their origin in the cosmic mind much as
nebulae take origin in the cosmic energies of universe space. On the human
(hence personal) level of intellectual selves the potential of spirit evolution
becomes dominant, with the assent of the mortal mind, because of the spiritual
endowments of the human personality together with the creative presence of an
entity-point of absolute value in such human selves. But such a spirit
dominance of the material mind is conditioned upon two experiences: This mind
must have evolved up through the ministry of the seven adjutant mind-spirits,
and the material (personal) self must choose to co-operate with the indwelling
Adjuster in creating and fostering the morontia self, the evolutionary and
potentially immortal soul.

Material mind is the arena in which human personalities live, are
self-conscious, make decisions, choose God or forsake him, eternalize or
destroy themselves.

Material evolution has provided you a life machine, your body; the Father
himself has endowed you with the purest spirit reality known in the universe,
your Thought Adjuster. But into your hands, subject to your own decisions, has
been given mind, and it is by mind that you live or die. It is within this mind
and with this mind that you make those moral decisions which enable you to
achieve Adjusterlikeness, and that is Godlikeness.

Mortal mind is a temporary intellect system loaned to human beings for use
during a material lifetime, and as they use this mind, they are either
accepting or rejecting the potential of eternal existence. Mind is about all
you have of universe reality that is subject to your will, and the soul--the
morontia self--will faithfully portray the harvest of the temporal decisions
which the mortal self is making. Human consciousness rests gently upon the
electrochemical mechanism below and delicately touches the spirit-morontia
energy system above. Of neither of these two systems is the human being ever
completely conscious in his mortal life; therefore must he work in mind, of
which he is conscious. And it is not so much what mind comprehends as what mind

                               top of page - 1217

desires to comprehend that insures survival; it is not so much what mind is
like as what mind is striving to be like that constitutes spirit
identification. It is not so much that man is conscious of God as that man
yearns for God that results in universe ascension. What you are today is not so
important as what you are becoming day by day and in eternity.

Mind is the cosmic instrument on which the human will can play the discords of
destruction, or upon which this same human will can bring forth the exquisite
melodies of God identification and consequent eternal survival. The Adjuster
bestowed upon man is, in the last analysis, impervious to evil and incapable of
sin, but mortal mind can actually be twisted, distorted, and rendered evil and
ugly by the sinful machinations of a perverse and self-seeking human will.
Likewise can this mind be made noble, beautiful, true, and good--actually
great--in accordance with the spirit-illuminated will of a God-knowing human
being.

Evolutionary mind is only fully stable and dependable when manifesting itself
upon the two extremes of cosmic intellectuality--the wholly mechanized and the
entirely spiritualized. Between the intellectual extremes of pure mechanical
control and true spirit nature there intervenes that enormous group of evolving
and ascending minds whose stability and tranquillity are dependent upon
personality choice and spirit identification.

But man does not passively, slavishly, surrender his will to the Adjuster.
Rather does he actively, positively, and co-operatively choose to follow the
Adjuster's leading when and as such leading consciously differs from the
desires and impulses of the natural mortal mind. The Adjusters manipulate but
never dominate man's mind against his will; to the Adjusters the human will is
supreme. And they so regard and respect it while they strive to achieve the
spiritual goals of thought adjustment and character transformation in the
almost limitless arena of the evolving human intellect.

Mind is your ship, the Adjuster is your pilot, the human will is captain. The
master of the mortal vessel should have the wisdom to trust the divine pilot to
guide the ascending soul into the morontia harbors of eternal survival. Only by
selfishness, slothfulness, and sinfulness can the will of man reject the
guidance of such a loving pilot and eventually wreck the mortal career upon the
evil shoals of rejected mercy and upon the rocks of embraced sin. With your
consent, this faithful pilot will safely carry you across the barriers of time
and the handicaps of space to the very source of the divine mind and on beyond,
even to the Paradise Father of Adjusters.

2. NATURE OF THE SOUL

Throughout the mind functions of cosmic intelligence, the totality of mind is
dominant over the parts of intellectual function. Mind, in its essence, is
functional unity; therefore does mind never fail to manifest this constitutive
unity, even when hampered and hindered by the unwise actions and choices of a
misguided self. And this unity of mind invariably seeks for spirit
co-ordination on all levels of its association with selves of will dignity and
ascension prerogatives.

The material mind of mortal man is the cosmic loom that carries the morontia
fabrics on which the indwelling Thought Adjuster threads the spirit patterns

                               top of page - 1218

of a universe character of enduring values and divine meanings--a surviving
soul of ultimate destiny and unending career, a potential finaliter.

The human personality is identified with mind and spirit held together in
functional relationship by life in a material body. This functioning
relationship of such mind and spirit does not result in some combination of the
qualities or attributes of mind and spirit but rather in an entirely new,
original, and unique universe value of potentially eternal endurance, the soul.

There are three and not two factors in the evolutionary creation of such an
immortal soul. These three antecedents of the morontia human soul are:

1. The human mind and all cosmic influences antecedent thereto and impinging
thereon.

2. The divine spirit indwelling this human mind and all potentials inherent in
such a fragment of absolute spirituality together with all associated spiritual
influences and factors in human life.

3. The relationship between material mind and divine spirit, which connotes a
value and carries a meaning not found in either of the contributing factors to
such an association. The reality of this unique relationship is neither
material nor spiritual but morontial. It is the soul.

The midway creatures have long denominated this evolving soul of man the
mid-mind in contradistinction to the lower or material mind and the higher or
cosmic mind. This mid-mind is really a morontia phenomenon since it exists in
the realm between the material and the spiritual. The potential of such a
morontia evolution is inherent in the two universal urges of mind: the impulse
of the finite mind of the creature to know God and attain the divinity of the
Creator, and the impulse of the infinite mind of the Creator to know man and
attain the experience of the creature.

This supernal transaction of evolving the immortal soul is made possible
because the mortal mind is first personal and second is in contact with
superanimal realities; it possesses a supermaterial endowment of cosmic
ministry which insures the evolution of a moral nature capable of making moral
decisions, thereby effecting a bona fide creative contact with the associated
spiritual ministries and with the indwelling Thought Adjuster.

The inevitable result of such a contactual spiritualization of the human mind
is the gradual birth of a soul, the joint offspring of an adjutant mind
dominated by a human will that craves to know God, working in liaison with the
spiritual forces of the universe which are under the overcontrol of an actual
fragment of the very God of all creation--the Mystery Monitor. And thus does
the material and mortal reality of the self transcend the temporal limitations
of the physical-life machine and attain a new expression and a new
identification in the evolving vehicle for selfhood continuity, the morontia
and immortal soul.

3. THE EVOLVING SOUL

The mistakes of mortal mind and the errors of human conduct may markedly delay
the evolution of the soul, although they cannot inhibit such a morontia
phenomenon when once it has been initiated by the indwelling Adjuster with the
consent of the creature will. But at any time prior to mortal death this same
material and human will is empowered to rescind such a choice and to reject
survival. Even after survival the ascending mortal still retains this
prerogative

                               top of page - 1219

of choosing to reject eternal life; at any time before fusion with the Adjuster
the evolving and ascending creature can choose to forsake the will of the
Paradise Father. Fusion with the Adjuster signalizes the fact that the
ascending mortal has eternally and unreservedly chosen to do the Father's will.

During the life in the flesh the evolving soul is enabled to reinforce the
supermaterial decisions of the mortal mind. The soul, being supermaterial, does
not of itself function on the material level of human experience. Neither can
this subspiritual soul, without the collaboration of some spirit of Deity, such
as the Adjuster, function above the morontia level. Neither does the soul make
final decisions until death or translation divorces it from material
association with the mortal mind except when and as this material mind
delegates such authority freely and willingly to such a morontia soul of
associated function. During life the mortal will, the personality power of
decision-choice, is resident in the material mind circuits; as terrestrial
mortal growth proceeds, this self, with its priceless powers of choice, becomes
increasingly identified with the emerging morontia-soul entity; after death and
following the mansion world resurrection, the human personality is completely
identified with the morontia self. The soul is thus the embryo of the future
morontia vehicle of personality identity.

This immortal soul is at first wholly morontia in nature, but it possesses such
a capacity for development that it invariably ascends to the true spirit levels
of fusion value with the spirits of Deity, usually with the same spirit of the
Universal Father that initiated such a creative phenomenon in the creature
mind.

Both the human mind and the divine Adjuster are conscious of the presence and
differential nature of the evolving soul--the Adjuster fully, the mind
partially. The soul becomes increasingly conscious of both the mind and the
Adjuster as associated identities, proportional to its own evolutionary growth.
The soul partakes of the qualities of both the human mind and the divine spirit
but persistently evolves toward augmentation of spirit control and divine
dominance through the fostering of a mind function whose meanings seek to
co-ordinate with true spirit value.

The mortal career, the soul's evolution, is not so much a probation as an
education. Faith in the survival of supreme values is the core of religion;
genuine religious experience consists in the union of supreme values and cosmic
meanings as a realization of universal reality.

Mind knows quantity, reality, meanings. But quality--values--is felt. That
which feels is the mutual creation of mind, which knows, and the associated
spirit, which reality-izes.

In so far as man's evolving morontia soul becomes permeated by truth, beauty,
and goodness as the value-realization of God-consciousness, such a resultant
being becomes indestructible. If there is no survival of eternal values in the
evolving soul of man, then mortal existence is without meaning, and life itself
is a tragic illusion. But it is forever true: What you begin in time you will
assuredly finish in eternity--if it is worth finishing.

4. THE INNER LIFE

Recognition is the intellectual process of fitting the sensory impressions
received from the external world into the memory patterns of the individual.

                               top of page - 1220

Understanding connotes that these recognized sensory impressions and their
associated memory patterns have become integrated or organized into a dynamic
network of principles.

Meanings are derived from a combination of recognition and understanding.
Meanings are nonexistent in a wholly sensory or material world. Meanings and
values are only perceived in the inner or supermaterial spheres of human
experience.

The advances of true civilization are all born in this inner world of mankind.
It is only the inner life that is truly creative. Civilization can hardly
progress when the majority of the youth of any generation devote their
interests and energies to the materialistic pursuits of the sensory or outer
world.

The inner and the outer worlds have a different set of values. Any civilization
is in jeopardy when three quarters of its youth enter materialistic professions
and devote themselves to the pursuit of the sensory activities of the outer
world. Civilization is in danger when youth neglect to interest themselves in
ethics, sociology, eugenics, philosophy, the fine arts, religion, and
cosmology.

Only in the higher levels of the superconscious mind as it impinges upon the
spirit realm of human experience can you find those higher concepts in
association with effective master patterns which will contribute to the
building of a better and more enduring civilization. Personality is inherently
creative, but it thus functions only in the inner life of the individual.

Snow crystals are always hexagonal in form, but no two are ever alike. Children
conform to types, but no two are exactly alike, even in the case of twins.
Personality follows types but is always unique.

Happiness and joy take origin in the inner life. You cannot experience real joy
all by yourself. A solitary life is fatal to happiness. Even families and
nations will enjoy life more if they share it with others.

You cannot completely control the external world--environment. It is the
creativity of the inner world that is most subject to your direction because
there your personality is so largely liberated from the fetters of the laws of
antecedent causation. There is associated with personality a limited
sovereignty of will.

Since this inner life of man is truly creative, there rests upon each person
the responsibility of choosing as to whether this creativity shall be
spontaneous and wholly haphazard or controlled, directed, and constructive. How
can a creative imagination produce worthy children when the stage whereon it
functions is already preoccupied by prejudice, hate, fears, resentments,
revenge, and bigotries?

Ideas may take origin in the stimuli of the outer world, but ideals are born
only in the creative realms of the inner world. Today the nations of the world
are directed by men who have a superabundance of ideas, but they are
poverty-stricken in ideals. That is the explanation of poverty, divorce, war,
and racial hatreds.

This is the problem: If freewill man is endowed with the powers of creativity
in the inner man, then must we recognize that freewill creativity embraces the
potential of freewill destructivity. And when creativity is turned to
destructivity, you are face to face with the devastation of evil and
sin--oppression, war, and destruction. Evil is a partiality of creativity which
tends toward

                               top of page - 1221

disintegration and eventual destruction. All conflict is evil in that it
inhibits the creative function of the inner life--it is a species of civil war
in the personality.

Inner creativity contributes to ennoblement of character through personality
integration and selfhood unification. It is forever true: The past is
unchangeable; only the future can be changed by the ministry of the present
creativity of the inner self.

5. THE CONSECRATION OF CHOICE

The doing of the will of God is nothing more or less than an exhibition of
creature willingness to share the inner life with God--with the very God who
has made such a creature life of inner meaning-value possible. Sharing is
Godlike--divine. God shares all with the Eternal Son and the Infinite Spirit,
while they, in turn, share all things with the divine Sons and spirit Daughters
of the universes.

The imitation of God is the key to perfection; the doing of his will is the
secret of survival and of perfection in survival.

Mortals live in God, and so God has willed to live in mortals. As men trust
themselves to him, so has he--and first--trusted a part of himself to be with
men; has consented to live in men and to indwell men subject to the human will.

Peace in this life, survival in death, perfection in the next life, service in
eternity--all these are achieved (in spirit) now when the creature personality
consents--chooses--to subject the creature will to the Father's will. And
already has the Father chosen to make a fragment of himself subject to the will
of the creature personality.

Such a creature choice is not a surrender of will. It is a consecration of
will, an expansion of will, a glorification of will, a perfecting of will; and
such choosing raises the creature will from the level of temporal significance
to that higher estate wherein the personality of the creature son communes with
the personality of the spirit Father.

This choosing of the Father's will is the spiritual finding of the spirit
Father by mortal man, even though an age must pass before the creature son may
actually stand in the factual presence of God on Paradise. This choosing does
not so much consist in the negation of creature will--"Not my will but yours be
done"--as it consists in the creature's positive affirmation: "It is my will
that your will be done." And if this choice is made, sooner or later will the
God-choosing son find inner union (fusion) with the indwelling God fragment,
while this same perfecting son will find supreme personality satisfaction in
the worship communion of the personality of man and the personality of his
Maker, two personalities whose creative attributes have eternally joined in
self-willed mutuality of expression--the birth of another eternal partnership
of the will of man and the will of God.

6. THE HUMAN PARADOX

Many of the temporal troubles of mortal man grow out of his twofold relation to
the cosmos. Man is a part of nature--he exists in nature--and yet he is able to
transcend nature. Man is finite, but he is indwelt by a spark of infinity. Such
a dual situation not only provides the potential for evil but also engenders

                               top of page - 1222

many social and moral situations fraught with much uncertainty and not a little
anxiety.

The courage required to effect the conquest of nature and to transcend one's
self is a courage that might succumb to the temptations of self-pride. The
mortal who can transcend self might yield to the temptation to deify his own
self-consciousness. The mortal dilemma consists in the double fact that man is
in bondage to nature while at the same time he possesses a unique
liberty--freedom of spiritual choice and action. On material levels man finds
himself subservient to nature, while on spiritual levels he is triumphant over
nature and over all things temporal and finite. Such a paradox is inseparable
from temptation, potential evil, decisional errors, and when self becomes proud
and arrogant, sin may evolve.

The problem of sin is not self-existent in the finite world. The fact of
finiteness is not evil or sinful. The finite world was made by an infinite
Creator--it is the handiwork of his divine Sons--and therefore it must be good.
It is the misuse, distortion, and perversion of the finite that gives origin to
evil and sin.

The spirit can dominate mind; so mind can control energy. But mind can control
energy only through its own intelligent manipulation of the metamorphic
potentials inherent in the mathematical level of the causes and effects of the
physical domains. Creature mind does not inherently control energy; that is a
Deity prerogative. But creature mind can and does manipulate energy just in so
far as it has become master of the energy secrets of the physical universe.

When man wishes to modify physical reality, be it himself or his environment,
he succeeds to the extent that he has discovered the ways and means of
controlling matter and directing energy. Unaided mind is impotent to influence
anything material save its own physical mechanism, with which it is inescapably
linked. But through the intelligent use of the body mechanism, mind can create
other mechanisms, even energy relationships and living relationships, by the
utilization of which this mind can increasingly control and even dominate its
physical level in the universe.

Science is the source of facts, and mind cannot operate without facts. They are
the building blocks in the construction of wisdom which are cemented together
by life experience. Man can find the love of God without facts, and man can
discover the laws of God without love, but man can never begin to appreciate
the infinite symmetry, the supernal harmony, the exquisite repleteness of the
all-inclusive nature of the First Source and Center until he has found divine
law and divine love and has experientially unified these in his own evolving
cosmic philosophy.

The expansion of material knowledge permits a greater intellectual appreciation
of the meanings of ideas and the values of ideals. A human being can find truth
in his inner experience, but he needs a clear knowledge of facts to apply his
personal discovery of truth to the ruthlessly practical demands of everyday
life.

It is only natural that mortal man should be harassed by feelings of insecurity
as he views himself inextricably bound to nature while he possesses spiritual
powers wholly transcendent to all things temporal and finite. Only religious
confidence--living faith--can sustain man amid such difficult and perplexing
problems.

                               top of page - 1223

Of all the dangers which beset man's mortal nature and jeopardize his spiritual
integrity, pride is the greatest. Courage is valorous, but egotism is
vainglorious and suicidal. Reasonable self-confidence is not to be deplored.
Man's ability to transcend himself is the one thing which distinguishes him
from the animal kingdom.

Pride is deceitful, intoxicating, and sin-breeding whether found in an
individual, a group, a race, or a nation. It is literally true, "Pride goes
before a fall."

7. THE ADJUSTER'S PROBLEM

Uncertainty with security is the essence of the Paradise adventure--uncertainty
in time and in mind, uncertainty as to the events of the unfolding Paradise
ascent; security in spirit and in eternity, security in the unqualified trust
of the creature son in the divine compassion and infinite love of the Universal
Father; uncertainty as an inexperienced citizen of the universe; security as an
ascending son in the universe mansions of an all-powerful, all-wise, and
all-loving Father.

May I admonish you to heed the distant echo of the Adjuster's faithful call to
your soul? The indwelling Adjuster cannot stop or even materially alter your
career struggle of time; the Adjuster cannot lessen the hardships of life as
you journey on through this world of toil. The divine indweller can only
patiently forbear while you fight the battle of life as it is lived on your
planet; but you could, if you only would--as you work and worry, as you fight
and toil--permit the valiant Adjuster to fight with you and for you. You could
be so comforted and inspired, so enthralled and intrigued, if you would only
allow the Adjuster constantly to bring forth the pictures of the real motive,
the final aim, and the eternal purpose of all this difficult, uphill struggle
with the commonplace problems of your present material world.

Why do you not aid the Adjuster in the task of showing you the spiritual
counterpart of all these strenuous material efforts? Why do you not allow the
Adjuster to strengthen you with the spiritual truths of cosmic power while you
wrestle with the temporal difficulties of creature existence? Why do you not
encourage the heavenly helper to cheer you with the clear vision of the eternal
outlook of universal life as you gaze in perplexity at the problems of the
passing hour? Why do you refuse to be enlightened and inspired by the universe
viewpoint while you toil amidst the handicaps of time and flounder in the maze
of uncertainties which beset your mortal life journey? Why not allow the
Adjuster to spiritualize your thinking, even though your feet must tread the
material paths of earthly endeavor?

The higher human races of Urantia are complexly admixed; they are a blend of
many races and stocks of different origin. This composite nature renders it
exceedingly difficult for the Monitors to work efficiently during life and adds
definitely to the problems of both the Adjuster and the guardian seraphim after
death. Not long since I was present on Salvington and heard a guardian of
destiny present a formal statement in extenuation of the difficulties of
ministering to her mortal subject. This seraphim said:

"Much of my difficulty was due to the unending conflict between the two natures
of my subject: the urge of ambition opposed by animal indolence;

                               top of page - 1224

the ideals of a superior people crossed by the instincts of an inferior race;
the high purposes of a great mind antagonized by the urge of a primitive
inheritance; the long-distance view of a far-seeing Monitor counteracted by the
nearsightedness of a creature of time; the progressive plans of an ascending
being modified by the desires and longings of a material nature; the flashes of
universe intelligence cancelled by the chemical-energy mandates of the evolving
race; the urge of angels opposed by the emotions of an animal; the training of
an intellect annulled by the tendencies of instinct; the experience of the
individual opposed by the accumulated propensities of the race; the aims of the
best overshadowed by the drift of the worst; the flight of genius neutralized
by the gravity of mediocrity; the progress of the good retarded by the inertia
of the bad; the art of the beautiful besmirched by the presence of evil; the
buoyancy of health neutralized by the debility of disease; the fountain of
faith polluted by the poisons of fear; the spring of joy embittered by the
waters of sorrow; the gladness of anticipation disillusioned by the bitterness
of realization; the joys of living ever threatened by the sorrows of death.
Such a life on such a planet! And yet, because of the ever-present help and
urge of the Thought Adjuster, this soul did achieve a fair degree of happiness
and success and has even now ascended to the judgment halls of mansonia."

[Presented by a Solitary Messenger of Orvonton.]

                               top of page - 1225

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   Relation Of    ³    Personality    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Adj...      ³      Sur...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
