            Urantia Book Paper 113 Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                        ... Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 113 Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

HAVING presented the narratives of the Ministering Spirits of Time and the
Messenger Hosts of Space, we come to the consideration of the guardian angels,
seraphim devoted to the ministry to individual mortals, for whose elevation and
perfection all of the vast survival scheme of spiritual progression has been
provided. In past ages on Urantia, these destiny guardians were about the only
group of angels that had recognition. The planetary seraphim are indeed
ministering spirits sent forth to do service for those who shall survive. These
attending seraphim have functioned as the spiritual helpers of mortal man in
all the great events of the past and the present. In many a revelation "the
word was spoken by angels"; many of the mandates of heaven have been "received
by the ministry of angels."

Seraphim are the traditional angels of heaven; they are the ministering spirits
who live so near you and do so much for you. They have ministered on Urantia
since the earliest times of human intelligence.

1. THE GUARDIAN ANGELS

The teaching about guardian angels is not a myth; certain groups of human
beings do actually have personal angels. It was in recognition of this that
Jesus, in speaking of the children of the heavenly kingdom, said: "Take heed
that you despise not one of these little ones, for I say to you, their angels
do always behold the presence of the spirit of my Father."

Originally, the seraphim were definitely assigned to the separate Urantia
races. But since the bestowal of Michael, they are assigned in accordance with
human intelligence, spirituality, and destiny. Intellectually, mankind is
divided into three classes:

1. The subnormal minded--those who do not exercise normal will power; those who
do not make average decisions. This class embraces those who cannot comprehend
God; they lack capacity for the intelligent worship of Deity. The subnormal
beings of Urantia have a corps of seraphim, one company, with one battalion of
cherubim, assigned to minister to them and to witness that justice and mercy
are extended to them in the life struggles of the sphere.

2. The average, normal type of human mind. From the standpoint of seraphic
ministry, most men and women are grouped in seven classes in accordance with
their status in making the circles of human progress and spiritual development.

3. The supernormal minded--those of great decision and undoubted potential of
spiritual achievement; men and women who enjoy more or less con-

                               top of page - 1242

tact with their indwelling Adjusters; members of the various reserve corps of
destiny. No matter in what circle a human happens to be, if such an individual
becomes enrolled in any of the several reserve corps of destiny, right then and
there, personal seraphim are assigned, and from that time until the earthly
career is finished, that mortal will enjoy the continuous ministry and
unceasing watchcare of a guardian angel. Also, when any human being makes the
supreme decision, when there is a real betrothal with the Adjuster, a personal
guardian is immediately assigned to that soul.

In the ministry to so-called normal beings, seraphic assignments are made in
accordance with the human attainment of the circles of intellectuality and
spirituality. You start out in your mind of mortal investment in the seventh
circle and journey inward in the task of self-understanding, self-conquest, and
self-mastery; and circle by circle you advance until (if natural death does not
terminate your career and transfer your struggles to the mansion worlds) you
reach the first or inner circle of relative contact and communion with the
indwelling Adjuster.

Human beings in the initial or seventh circle have one guardian angel with one
company of assisting cherubim assigned to the watchcare and custody of one
thousand mortals. In the sixth circle, a seraphic pair with one company of
cherubim is assigned to guide these ascending mortals in groups of five
hundred. When the fifth circle is attained, human beings are grouped in
companies of approximately one hundred, and a pair of guardian seraphim with a
group of cherubim is placed in charge. Upon attainment of the fourth circle,
mortal beings are assembled in groups of ten, and again charge is given to a
pair of seraphim, assisted by one company of cherubim.

When a mortal mind breaks through the inertia of animal legacy and attains the
third circle of human intellectuality and acquired spirituality, a personal
angel (in reality two) will henceforth be wholly and exclusively devoted to
this ascending mortal. And thus these human souls, in addition to the
ever-present and increasingly efficient indwelling Thought Adjusters, receive
the undivided assistance of these personal guardians of destiny in all their
efforts to finish the third circle, traverse the second, and attain the first.

2. THE DESTINY GUARDIANS

Seraphim are not known as guardians of destiny until such time as they are
assigned to the association of a human soul who has realized one or more of
three achievements: has made a supreme decision to become Godlike, has entered
the third circle, or has been mustered into one of the reserve corps of
destiny.

In the evolution of races a guardian of destiny is assigned to the very first
being who attains the requisite circle of conquest. On Urantia the first mortal
to secure a personal guardian was Rantowoc, a wise man of the red race of long
ago.

All angelic assignments are made from a group of volunteering seraphim, and
these appointments are always in accordance with human needs and with regard to
the status of the angelic pair--in the light of seraphic experience, skill, and
wisdom. Only seraphim of long service, the more experienced and tested types,
are assigned as destiny guards. Many guardians have gained much valuable

                               top of page - 1243

experience on those worlds which are of the non-Adjuster fusion series. Like
the Adjusters, the seraphim attend these beings for a single lifetime and then
are liberated for new assignment. Many guardians on Urantia have had this
previous practical experience on other worlds.

When human beings fail to survive, their personal or group guardians may
repeatedly serve in similar capacities on the same planet. The seraphim develop
a sentimental regard for individual worlds and entertain a special affection
for certain races and types of mortal creatures with whom they have been so
closely and intimately associated.

The angels develop an abiding affection for their human associates; and you
would, if you could only visualize the seraphim, develop a warm affection for
them. Divested of material bodies, given spirit forms, you would be very near
the angels in many attributes of personality. They share most of your emotions
and experience some additional ones. The only emotion actuating you which is
somewhat difficult for them to comprehend is the legacy of animal fear that
bulks so large in the mental life of the average inhabitant of Urantia. The
angels really find it hard to understand why you will so persistently allow
your higher intellectual powers, even your religious faith, to be so dominated
by fear, so thoroughly demoralized by the thoughtless panic of dread and
anxiety.

All seraphim have individual names, but in the records of assignment to world
service they are frequently designated by their planetary numbers. At the
universe headquarters they are registered by name and number. The destiny
guardian of the human subject used in this contactual communication is number 3
of group 17, of company 126, of battalion 4, of unit 384, of legion 6, of host
37, of the 182,314th seraphic army of Nebadon. The current planetary assignment
number of this seraphim on Urantia and to this human subject is 3,641,852.

In the ministry of personal guardianship, the assignment of angels as destiny
guardians, seraphim always volunteer their services. In the city of this
visitation a certain mortal was recently admitted to the reserve corps of
destiny, and since all such humans are personally attended by guardian angels,
more than one hundred qualified seraphim sought the assignment. The planetary
director selected twelve of the more experienced individuals and subsequently
appointed the seraphim whom they selected as best adapted to guide this human
being through his life journey. That is, they selected a certain pair of
equally qualified seraphim; one of this seraphic pair will always be on duty.

Seraphic tasks may be unremitting, but either of the angelic pair can discharge
all ministering responsibilities. Like cherubim, seraphim usually serve in
pairs, but unlike their less advanced associates, the seraphim sometimes work
singly. In practically all their contacts with human beings they can function
as individuals. Both angels are required only for communication and service on
the higher circuits of the universes.

When a seraphic pair accept guardian assignment, they serve for the remainder
of the life of that human being. The complement of being (one of the two
angels) becomes the recorder of the undertaking. These complemental seraphim
are the recording angels of the mortals of the evolutionary worlds. The records
are kept by the pair of cherubim (a cherubim and a sanobim) who are always
associated with the seraphic guardians, but these records are always sponsored
by one of the seraphim.

                               top of page - 1244

For purposes of rest and recharging with the life energy of the universe
circuits, the guardian is periodically relieved by her complement, and during
her absence the associated cherubim functions as the recorder, as is also the
case when the complemental seraphim is similarly absent.

3. RELATION TO OTHER SPIRIT INFLUENCES

One of the most important things a destiny guardian does for her mortal subject
is to effect a personal co-ordination of the numerous impersonal spirit
influences which indwell, surround, and impinge upon the mind and soul of the
evolving material creature. Human beings are personalities, and it is
exceedingly difficult for nonpersonal spirits and prepersonal entities to make
direct contact with such highly material and discretely personal minds. In the
ministry of the guarding angel all of these influences are more or less unified
and made more nearly appreciable by the expanding moral nature of the evolving
human personality.

More especially can and does this seraphic guardian correlate the manifold
agencies and influences of the Infinite Spirit, ranging from the domains of the
physical controllers and the adjutant mind-spirits up to the Holy Spirit of the
Divine Minister and to the Omnipresent Spirit presence of the Paradise Third
Source and Center. Having thus unified and made more personal these vast
ministries of the Infinite Spirit, the seraphim then undertakes to correlate
this integrated influence of the Conjoint Actor with the spirit presences of
the Father and the Son.

The Adjuster is the presence of the Father; the Spirit of Truth, the presence
of the Sons. These divine endowments are unified and co-ordinated on the lower
levels of human spiritual experience by the ministry of the guardian seraphim.
The angelic servers are gifted in combining the love of the Father and the
mercy of the Son in their ministry to mortal creatures.

And herein is revealed the reason why the seraphic guardian eventually becomes
the personal custodian of the mind patterns, memory formulas, and soul
realities of the mortal survivor during that interval between physical death
and morontia resurrection. None but the ministering children of the Infinite
Spirit could thus function in behalf of the human creature during this phase of
transition from one level of the universe to another and higher level. Even
when you engage in your terminal transition slumber, when you pass from time to
eternity, a high supernaphim likewise shares the transit with you as the
custodian of creature identity and the surety of personal integrity.

On the spiritual level, seraphim make personal many otherwise impersonal and
prepersonal ministries of the universe; they are co-ordinators. On the
intellectual level they are the correlators of mind and morontia; they are
interpreters. And on the physical level they manipulate terrestrial environment
through their liaison with the Master Physical Controllers and through the
co-operative ministry of the midway creatures.

This is a recital of the manifold and intricate function of an attending
seraphim; but how does such a subordinate angelic personality, created but a
little above the universe level of humanity, do such difficult and complex
things? We do not really know, but we conjecture that this phenomenal ministry
is in some undisclosed manner facilitated by the unrecognized and unrevealed
working of the Supreme Being, the actualizing Deity of the evolving universes
of time and

                               top of page - 1245

space. Throughout the entire realm of progressive survival in and through the
Supreme Being, seraphim are an essential part of continuing mortal progression.

4. SERAPHIC DOMAINS OF ACTION

The guardian seraphim are not mind, though they do spring from the same source
that also gives origin to mortal mind, the Creative Spirit. Seraphim are mind
stimulators; they continually seek to promote circle-making decisions in human
mind. They do this, not as does the Adjuster, operating from within and through
the soul, but rather from the outside inward, working through the social,
ethical, and moral environment of human beings. Seraphim are not the divine
Adjuster lure of the Universal Father, but they do function as the personal
agency of the ministry of the Infinite Spirit.

Mortal man, subject to Adjuster leading, is also amenable to seraphic guidance.
The Adjuster is the essence of man's eternal nature; the seraphim is the
teacher of man's evolving nature--in this life the mortal mind, in the next the
morontia soul. On the mansion worlds you will be conscious and aware of
seraphic instructors, but in the first life men are usually unaware of them.

Seraphim function as teachers of men by guiding the footsteps of the human
personality into paths of new and progressive experiences. To accept the
guidance of a seraphim rarely means attaining a life of ease. In following this
leading you are sure to encounter, and if you have the courage, to traverse,
the rugged hills of moral choosing and spiritual progress.

The impulse of worship largely originates in the spirit promptings of the
higher mind adjutants, reinforced by the leadings of the Adjuster. But the urge
to pray so often experienced by God-conscious mortals very often arises as the
result of seraphic influence. The guarding seraphim is constantly manipulating
the mortal environment for the purpose of augmenting the cosmic insight of the
human ascender to the end that such a survival candidate may acquire enhanced
realization of the presence of the indwelling Adjuster and thus be enabled to
yield increased co-operation with the spiritual mission of the divine presence.

While there is apparently no communication between the indwelling Adjusters and
the encompassing seraphim, they always seem to work in perfect harmony and
exquisite accord. The guardians are most active at those times when the
Adjusters are least active, but their ministry is in some manner strangely
correlated. Such superb co-operation could hardly be either accidental or
incidental.

The ministering personality of the guardian seraphim, the God presence of the
indwelling Adjuster, the encircuited action of the Holy Spirit, and the
Son-consciousness of the Spirit of Truth are all divinely correlated into a
meaningful unity of spiritual ministry in and to a mortal personality. Though
hailing from different sources and different levels, these celestial influences
are all integrated in the enveloping and evolving presence of the Supreme
Being.

5. SERAPHIC MINISTRY TO MORTALS

Angels do not invade the sanctity of the human mind; they do not manipulate the
will of mortals; neither do they directly contact with the indwelling
Adjusters. The guardian of destiny influences you in every possible manner
consistent with the dignity of your personality; under no circumstances do
these

                               top of page - 1246

angels interfere with the free action of the human will. Neither angels nor any
other order of universe personality have power or authority to curtail or
abridge the prerogatives of human choosing.

Angels are so near you and care so feelingly for you that they figuratively
"weep because of your willful intolerance and stubbornness." Seraphim do not
shed physical tears; they do not have physical bodies; neither do they possess
wings. But they do have spiritual emotions, and they do experience feelings and
sentiments of a spiritual nature which are in certain ways comparable to human
emotions.

The seraphim act in your behalf quite independent of your direct appeals; they
are executing the mandates of their superiors, and thus they function
regardless of your passing whims or changing moods. This does not imply that
you may not make their tasks either easier or more difficult, but rather that
angels are not directly concerned with your appeals or with your prayers.

In the life of the flesh the intelligence of angels is not directly available
to mortal men. They are not overlords or directors; they are simply guardians.
The seraphim guard you; they do not seek directly to influence you; you must
chart your own course, but these angels then act to make the best possible use
of the course you have chosen. They do not (ordinarily) arbitrarily intervene
in the routine affairs of human life. But when they receive instructions from
their superiors to perform some unusual exploit, you may rest assured that
these guardians will find some means of carrying out these mandates. They do
not, therefore, intrude into the picture of human drama except in emergencies
and then usually on the direct orders of their superiors. They are the beings
who are going to follow you for many an age, and they are thus receiving an
introduction to their future work and personality association.

Seraphim are able to function as material ministers to human beings under
certain circumstances, but their action in this capacity is very rare. They are
able, with the assistance of the midway creatures and the physical controllers,
to function in a wide range of activities in behalf of human beings, even to
make actual contact with mankind, but such occurrences are very unusual. In
most instances the circumstances of the material realm proceed unaltered by
seraphic action, although occasions have arisen, involving jeopardy to vital
links in the chain of human evolution, in which seraphic guardians have acted,
and properly, on their own initiative.

6. GUARDIAN ANGELS AFTER DEATH

Having told you something of the ministry of seraphim during natural life, I
will endeavor to inform you about the conduct of the guardians of destiny at
the time of the mortal dissolution of their human associates. Upon your death,
your records, identity specifications, and the morontia entity of the human
soul--conjointly evolved by the ministry of mortal mind and the divine
Adjuster--are faithfully conserved by the destiny guardian together with all
other values related to your future existence, everything that constitutes you,
the real you, except the identity of continuing existence represented by the
departing Adjuster and the actuality of personality.

The instant the pilot light in the human mind disappears, the spirit luminosity
which seraphim associate with the presence of the Adjuster, the attending angel

                               top of page - 1247

reports in person to the commanding angels, successively, of the group,
company, battalion, unit, legion, and host; and after being duly registered for
the final adventure of time and space, such an angel receives certification by
the planetary chief of seraphim for reporting to the Evening Star (or other
lieutenant of Gabriel) in command of the seraphic army of this candidate for
universe ascension. And upon being granted permission from the commander of
this highest organizational unit, such a guardian of destiny proceeds to the
first mansion world and there awaits the consciousizing of her former ward in
the flesh.

In case the human soul fails of survival after having received the assignment
of a personal angel, the attending seraphim must proceed to the headquarters of
the local universe, there to witness to the complete records of her complement
as previously reported. Next she goes before the tribunals of the archangels,
to be absolved from blame in the matter of the survival failure of her subject;
and then she goes back to the worlds, again to be assigned to another mortal of
ascending potentiality or to some other division of seraphic ministry.

But angels minister to evolutionary creatures in many ways aside from the
services of personal and group guardianship. Personal guardians whose subjects
do not go immediately to the mansion worlds do not tarry there in idleness
awaiting the dispensational roll calls of judgment; they are reassigned to
numerous ministering missions throughout the universe.

The guardian seraphim is the custodial trustee of the survival values of mortal
man's slumbering soul as the absent Adjuster is the identity of such an
immortal universe being. When these two collaborate in the resurrection halls
of mansonia in conjunction with the newly fabricated morontia form, there
occurs the reassembly of the constituent factors of the personality of the
mortal ascender.

The Adjuster will identify you; the guardian seraphim will repersonalize you
and then re-present you to the faithful Monitor of your earth days.

And even so, when a planetary age ends, when those in the lower circles of
mortal achievement are forgathered, it is their group guardians who reassemble
them in the resurrection halls of the mansion spheres, even as your record
tells: "And he shall send his angels with a great voice and shall gather
together his elect from one end of the realm to another."

The technique of justice demands that personal or group guardians shall respond
to the dispensational roll call in behalf of all nonsurviving personalities.
The Adjusters of such nonsurvivors do not return, and when the rolls are
called, the seraphim respond, but the Adjusters make no answer. This
constitutes the "resurrection of the unjust," in reality the formal recognition
of the cessation of creature existence. This roll call of justice always
immediately follows the roll call of mercy, the resurrection of the sleeping
survivors. But these are matters which are of concern to none but the supreme
and all-knowing Judges of survival values. Such problems of adjudication do not
really concern us.

Group guardians may serve on a planet age after age and eventually become
custodians of the slumbering souls of thousands upon thousands of sleeping
survivors. They can so serve on many different worlds in a given system since
the resurrection response occurs on the mansion worlds.

All personal and group guardians in the system of Satania who went astray in
the Lucifer rebellion, notwithstanding that many sincerely repented of their

                               top of page - 1248

folly, are to be detained on Jerusem until the final adjudication of the
rebellion. Already have the Universal Censors arbitrarily taken from these
disobedient and unfaithful guardians all aspects of their soul trusts and
lodged these morontia realities for safekeeping in the custody of volunteer
seconaphim.

7. SERAPHIM AND THE ASCENDANT CAREER

It is indeed an epoch in the career of an ascending mortal, this first
awakening on the shores of the mansion world; there, for the first time,
actually to see your long-loved and ever-present angelic companions of earth
days; there also to become truly conscious of the identity and presence of the
divine Monitor who so long indwelt your mind on earth. Such an experience
constitutes a glorious awakening, a real resurrection.

On the morontia spheres the attending seraphim (there are two of them) are your
open companions. These angels not only consort with you as you progress through
the career of the transition worlds, in every way possible assisting you in the
acquirement of morontia and spirit status, but they also avail themselves of
the opportunity to advance by study in the extension schools for evolutionary
seraphim maintained on the mansion worlds.

The human race was created just a little lower than the more simple types of
the angelic orders. Therefore will your first assignment of the morontia life
be as assistants to the seraphim in the immediate work awaiting at the time you
attain personality consciousness subsequent to your liberation from the bonds
of the flesh.

Before leaving the mansion worlds, all mortals will have permanent seraphic
associates or guardians. And as you ascend the morontia spheres, eventually it
is the seraphic guardians who witness and certify the decrees of your eternal
union with the Thought Adjusters. Together they have established your
personality identities as children of the flesh from the worlds of time. Then,
with your attainment of the mature morontia estate, they accompany you through
Jerusem and the associated worlds of system progress and culture. After that
they go with you to Edentia and its seventy spheres of advanced socialization,
and subsequently will they pilot you to the Melchizedeks and follow you through
the superb career of the universe headquarters worlds. And when you have
learned the wisdom and culture of the Melchizedeks, they will take you on to
Salvington, where you will stand face to face with the Sovereign of all
Nebadon. And still will these seraphic guides follow you through the minor and
major sectors of the superuniverse and on to the receiving worlds of Uversa,
remaining with you until you finally enseconaphim for the long Havona flight.

Some of the destiny guardians of attachment during the mortal career follow the
course of the ascending pilgrims through Havona. The others bid their long-time
mortal associates a temporary farewell, and then, while these mortals traverse
the circles of the central universe, these guardians of destiny achieve the
circles of Seraphington. And they will be in waiting on the shores of Paradise
when their mortal associates awaken from the last transit sleep of time into
the new experiences of eternity. Such ascending seraphim subsequently enter
upon divergent services in the finaliter corps and in the Seraphic Corps of
Completion.

Man and angel may or may not be reunited in eternal service, but wherever
seraphic assignment may take them, the seraphim are always in communication
with their former wards of the evolutionary worlds, the ascendant mortals of

                               top of page - 1249

time. The intimate associations and the affectionate attachments of the realms
of human origin are never forgotten nor ever completely severed. In the eternal
ages men and angels will co-operate in the divine service as they did in the
career of time.

For seraphim, the surest way of achieving the Paradise Deities is by
successfully guiding a soul of evolutionary origin to the portals of Paradise.
Therefore is the assignment of guardian of destiny the most highly prized
seraphic duty.

Only destiny guardians are mustered into the primary or mortal Corps of the
Finality, and such pairs have engaged in the supreme adventure of identity
at-oneness; the two beings have achieved spiritual bi-unification on
Seraphington prior to their reception into the finaliter corps. In this
experience the two angelic natures, so complemental in all universe functions,
achieve ultimate spirit two-in-oneness, repercussing in a new capacity for the
reception of, and fusion with, a non-Adjuster fragment of the Paradise Father.
And so do some of your loving seraphic associates in time also become your
finaliter associates in eternity, children of the Supreme and perfected sons of
the Paradise Father.

[Presented by the Chief of Seraphim stationed on Urantia.]

                               top of page - 1250

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   Personality    ³     Seraphic      ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Sur...      ³     Planet...     ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
