            Urantia Book Paper 114 Seraphic Planetary Government
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                        ... Seraphic Planetary Government
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 114 Seraphic Planetary Government

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE Most Highs rule in the kingdoms of men through many celestial forces and
agencies but chiefly through the ministry of seraphim.

At noon today the roll call of planetary angels, guardians, and others on
Urantia was 501,234,619 pairs of seraphim. There were assigned to my command
two hundred seraphic hosts--597,196,800 pairs of seraphim, or 1,194,393,600
individual angels. The registry, however, shows 1,002,469,238 individuals; it
follows therefore that 191,924,362 angels were absent from this world on
transport, messenger, and death duty. (On Urantia there are about the same
number of cherubim as seraphim, and they are similarly organized.)

Seraphim and their associated cherubim have much to do with the details of the
superhuman government of a planet, especially of worlds which have been
isolated by rebellion. The angels, ably assisted by the midwayers, function on
Urantia as the actual supermaterial ministers who execute the mandates of the
resident governor general and all his associates and subordinates. Seraphim as
a class are occupied with many assignments other than those of personal and
group guardianship.

Urantia is not without proper and effective supervision from the system,
constellation, and universe rulers. But the planetary government is unlike that
of any other world in the Satania system, even in all Nebadon. This uniqueness
in your plan of supervision is due to a number of unusual circumstances:

1. The life modification status of Urantia.

2. The exigencies of the Lucifer rebellion.

3. The disruptions of the Adamic default.

4. The irregularities growing out of the fact that Urantia was one of the
bestowal worlds of the Universe Sovereign. Michael of Nebadon is the Planetary
Prince of Urantia.

5. The special function of the twenty-four planetary directors.

6. The location on the planet of an archangels' circuit.

7. The more recent designation of the onetime incarnated Machiventa Melchizedek
as vicegerent Planetary Prince.

1. THE SOVEREIGNTY OF URANTIA

The original sovereignty of Urantia was held in trust by the sovereign of the
Satania system. It was first delegated by him to a joint commission of
Melchizedeks and Life Carriers, and this group functioned on Urantia until the
arrival of a regularly constituted Planetary Prince. Subsequent to the downfall

                               top of page - 1251

of Prince Caligastia, at the time of the Lucifer rebellion, Urantia had no sure
and settled relationship with the local universe and its administrative
divisions until the completion of Michael's bestowal in the flesh, when he was
proclaimed, by the Union of Days, Planetary Prince of Urantia. Such a
proclamation in surety and in principle forever settled the status of your
world, but in practice the Sovereign Creator Son made no gesture of personal
administration of the planet aside from the establishment of the Jerusem
commission of twenty-four former Urantians with authority to represent him in
the government of Urantia and all other quarantined planets in the system. One
of this council is now always resident on Urantia as resident governor general.

Vicegerent authority to act for Michael as Planetary Prince has been recently
vested in Machiventa Melchizedek, but this Son of the local universe has made
not the slightest move toward modifying the present planetary regime of the
successive administrations of the resident governors general.

There is little likelihood that any marked change will be made in the
government of Urantia during the present dispensation unless the vicegerent
Planetary Prince should arrive to assume his titular responsibilities. It
appears to certain of our associates that at some time in the near future the
plan of sending one of the twenty-four counselors to Urantia to act as governor
general will be superseded by the formal arrival of Machiventa Melchizedek with
the vicegerent mandate of the sovereignty of Urantia. As acting Planetary
Prince he would undoubtedly continue in charge of the planet until the final
adjudication of the Lucifer rebellion and probably on into the distant future
of planetary settlement in light and life.

Some believe that Machiventa will not come to take personal direction of
Urantian affairs until the end of the current dispensation. Others hold that
the vicegerent Prince may not come, as such, until Michael sometime returns to
Urantia as he promised when still in the flesh. Still others, including this
narrator, look for Melchizedek's appearance any day or hour.

2. THE BOARD OF PLANETARY SUPERVISORS

Since the times of Michael's bestowal on your world the general management of
Urantia has been intrusted to a special group on Jerusem of twenty-four
one-time Urantians. Qualification for membership on this commission is unknown
to us, but we have observed that those who have been thus commissioned have all
been contributors to the enlarging sovereignty of the Supreme in the system of
Satania. By nature they were all real leaders when they functioned on Urantia,
and (excepting Machiventa Melchizedek) these qualities of leadership have been
further augmented by mansion world experience and supplemented by the training
of Jerusem citizenship. Members are nominated to the twenty-four by the cabinet
of Lanaforge, seconded by the Most Highs of Edentia, approved by the Assigned
Sentinel of Jerusem, and appointed by Gabriel of Salvington in accordance with
the mandate of Michael. The temporary appointees function just as fully as do
the permanent members of this commission of special supervisors.

This board of planetary directors is especially concerned with the supervision
of those activities on this world which result from the fact that Michael here
experienced his terminal bestowal.

                               top of page - 1252

They are kept in close and immediate touch with Michael by the liaison
activities of a certain Brilliant Evening Star, the identical being who
attended upon Jesus throughout the mortal bestowal.

At the present time one John, known to you as "the Baptist," is chairman of
this council when it is in session on Jerusem. But the ex officio head of this
council is the Assigned Sentinel of Satania, the direct and personal
representative of the Associate Inspector on Salvington and of the Supreme
Executive of Orvonton.

The members of this same commission of former Urantians also act as advisory
supervisors of the thirty-six other rebellion-isolated worlds of the system;
they perform a very valuable service in keeping Lanaforge, the System
Sovereign, in close and sympathetic touch with the affairs of these planets,
which still remain more or less under the overcontrol of the Constellation
Fathers of Norlatiadek. These twenty-four counselors make frequent trips as
individuals to each of the quarantined planets, especially to Urantia.

Each of the other isolated worlds is advised by similar and varying sized
commissions of its onetime inhabitants, but these other commissions are
subordinate to the Urantian group of twenty-four. While the members of the
latter commission are thus actively interested in every phase of human progress
on each quarantined world in Satania, they are especially and particularly
concerned with the welfare and advancement of the mortal races of Urantia, for
they immediately and directly supervise the affairs of none of the planets
except Urantia, and even here their authority is not complete excepting in
certain domains concerned with mortal survival.

No one knows how long these twenty-four Urantia counselors will continue in
their present status, detached from the regular program of universe activities.
They will no doubt continue to serve in their present capacities until some
change in planetary status ensues, such as the end of a dispensation, the
assumption of full authority by Machiventa Melchizedek, the final adjudication
of the Lucifer rebellion, or the reappearance of Michael on the world of his
final bestowal. The present resident governor general of Urantia seems inclined
to the opinion that all but Machiventa may be released for Paradise ascension
the moment the system of Satania is restored to the constellation circuits. But
other opinions are also current.

3. THE RESIDENT GOVERNOR GENERAL

Every one hundred years of Urantia time, the Jerusem corps of twenty-four
planetary supervisors designate one of their number to sojourn on your world to
act as their executive representative, as resident governor general. During the
times of the preparation of these narratives this executive officer was
changed, the nineteenth so to serve being succeeded by the twentieth. The name
of the current planetary supervisor is withheld from you only because mortal
man is so prone to venerate, even to deify, his extraordinary compatriots and
superhuman superiors.

The resident governor general has no actual personal authority in the
management of world affairs except as the representative of the twenty-four
Jerusem counselors. He acts as the co-ordinator of superhuman administration
and is the respected head and universally recognized leader of the celestial
beings functioning on Urantia. All orders of angelic hosts regard him as their
co-ordinating director, while the united midwayers, since the departure of
1-2-3 the first to become one of the twenty-four counselors, really look upon
the successive governors general as their planetary fathers.

                               top of page - 1253

Although the governor general does not possess actual and personal authority on
the planet, he hands down scores of rulings and decisions each day which are
accepted as final by all personalities concerned. He is much more of a fatherly
adviser than a technical ruler. In certain ways he functions as would a
Planetary Prince, but his administration much more closely resembles that of
the Material Sons.

The Urantia government is represented in the councils of Jerusem in accordance
with an arrangement whereby the returning governor general sits as a temporary
member of the System Sovereign's cabinet of Planetary Princes. It was expected,
when Machiventa was designated vicegerent Prince, that he would immediately
assume his place in the council of the Planetary Princes of Satania, but thus
far he has made no gesture in this direction.

The supermaterial government of Urantia does not maintain a very close organic
relationship with the higher units of the local universe. In a way, the
resident governor general represents Salvington as well as Jerusem since he
acts on behalf of the twenty-four counselors, who are directly representative
of Michael and Gabriel. And being a Jerusem citizen, the planetary governor can
function as a spokesman for the System Sovereign. The constellation authorities
are represented directly by a Vorondadek Son, the Edentia observer.

4. THE MOST HIGH OBSERVER

The sovereignty of Urantia is further complicated by the onetime arbitrary
seizure of planetary authority by the government of Norlatiadek shortly after
the planetary rebellion. There is still resident on Urantia a Vorondadek Son,
an observer for the Most Highs of Edentia and, in the absence of direct action
by Michael, trustee of planetary sovereignty. The present Most High observer
(and sometime regent) is the twenty-third thus to serve on Urantia.

There are certain groups of planetary problems which are still under the
control of the Most Highs of Edentia, jurisdiction over them having been seized
at the time of the Lucifer rebellion. Authority in these matters is exercised
by a Vorondadek Son, the Norlatiadek observer, who maintains very close
advisory relations with the planetary supervisors. The race commissioners are
very active on Urantia, and their various group chiefs are informally attached
to the resident Vorondadek observer, who acts as their advisory director.

In a crisis the actual and sovereign head of the government, excepting in
certain purely spiritual matters, would be this Vorondadek Son of Edentia now
on observation duty. (In these exclusively spiritual problems and in certain
purely personal matters, the supreme authority seems to be vested in the
commanding archangel attached to the divisional headquarters of that order
which was recently established on Urantia.)

A Most High observer is empowered, at his discretion, to seize the planetary
government in times of grave planetary crises, and it is of record that this
has happened thirty-three times in the history of Urantia. At such times the
Most High observer functions as the Most High regent, exercising unquestioned
authority over all ministers and administrators resident on the planet
excepting only the divisional organization of the archangels.

Vorondadek regencies are not peculiar to rebellion-isolated planets, for the
Most Highs may intervene at any time in the affairs of the inhabited worlds,

                               top of page - 1254

interposing the superior wisdom of the constellation rulers in the affairs of
the kingdoms of men.

5. THE PLANETARY GOVERNMENT

The actual administration of Urantia is indeed difficult to describe. There
exists no formal government along the lines of universe organization, such as
separate legislative, executive, and judicial departments. The twenty-four
counselors come the nearest to being the legislative branch of the planetary
government. The governor general is a provisional and advisory chief executive
with the veto power resident in the Most High observer. And there are no
absolutely authoritative judicial powers operative on the planet--only the
conciliating commissions.

A majority of the problems involving seraphim and midwayers are, by mutual
consent, decided by the governor general. But except when voicing the mandates
of the twenty-four counselors, his rulings are all subject to appeal to
conciliating commissions, to local authorities constituted for planetary
function, or even to the System Sovereign of Satania.

The absence of the corporeal staff of a Planetary Prince and the material
regime of an Adamic Son and Daughter is partially compensated by the special
ministry of seraphim and by the unusual services of the midway creatures. The
absence of the Planetary Prince is effectively compensated by the triune
presence of the archangels, the Most High observer, and the governor general.

This rather loosely organized and somewhat personally administered planetary
government is more than expectedly effective because of the timesaving
assistance of the archangels and their ever-ready circuit, which is so
frequently utilized in planetary emergencies and administrative difficulties.
Technically, the planet is still spiritually isolated in the Norlatiadek
circuits, but in an emergency this handicap can now be circumvented through
utilization of the archangels' circuit. Planetary isolation is, of course, of
little concern to individual mortals since the pouring out of the Spirit of
Truth upon all flesh nineteen hundred years ago.

Each administrative day on Urantia begins with a consultative conference, which
is attended by the governor general, the planetary chief of archangels, the
Most High observer, the supervising supernaphim, the chief of resident Life
Carriers, and invited guests from among the high Sons of the universe or from
among certain of the student visitors who may chance to be sojourning on the
planet.

The direct administrative cabinet of the governor general consists of twelve
seraphim, the acting chiefs of the twelve groups of special angels functioning
as the immediate superhuman directors of planetary progress and stability.

6. THE MASTER SERAPHIM OF PLANETARY SUPERVISION

When the first governor general arrived on Urantia, concurrent with the
outpouring of the Spirit of Truth, he was accompanied by twelve corps of
special seraphim, Seraphington graduates, who were immediately assigned to
certain special planetary services. These exalted angels are known as the
master seraphim of planetary supervision and are, aside from the overcontrol of
the planetary

                               top of page - 1255

Most High observer, under the immediate direction of the resident governor
general.

These twelve groups of angels, while functioning under the general supervision
of the resident governor general, are immediately directed by the seraphic
council of twelve, the acting chiefs of each group. This council also serves as
the volunteer cabinet of the resident governor general.

As planetary chief of seraphim, I preside over this council of seraphic chiefs,
and I am a volunteer supernaphim of the primary order serving on Urantia as the
successor of the onetime chief of the angelic hosts of the planet who defaulted
at the time of the Caligastia secession.

The twelve corps of the master seraphim of planetary supervision are functional
on Urantia as follows:

1. The epochal angels. These are the angels of the current age, the
dispensational group. These celestial ministers are intrusted with the
oversight and direction of the affairs of each generation as they are designed
to fit into the mosaic of the age in which they occur. The present corps of
epochal angels serving on Urantia is the third group assigned to the planet
during the current dispensation.

2. The progress angels. These seraphim are intrusted with the task of
initiating the evolutionary progress of the successive social ages. They foster
the development of the inherent progressive trend of evolutionary creatures;
they labor incessantly to make things what they ought to be. The group now on
duty is the second to be assigned to the planet.

3. The religious guardians. These are the "angels of the churches," the earnest
contenders for that which is and has been. They endeavor to maintain the ideals
of that which has survived for the sake of the safe transit of moral values
from one epoch to another. They are the checkmates of the angels of progress,
all the while seeking to translate from one generation to another the
imperishable values of the old and passing forms into the new and therefore
less stabilized patterns of thought and conduct. These angels do contend for
spiritual forms, but they are not the source of ultrasectarianism and
meaningless controversial divisions of professed religionists. The corps now
functioning on Urantia is the fifth thus to serve.

4. The angels of nation life. These are the "angels of the trumpets," directors
of the political performances of Urantia national life. The group now
functioning in the overcontrol of international relations is the fourth corps
to serve on the planet. It is particularly through the ministry of this
seraphic division that "the Most Highs rule in the kingdoms of men."

5. The angels of the races. Those who work for the conservation of the
evolutionary races of time, regardless of their political entanglements and
religious groupings. On Urantia there are remnants of nine human races which
have commingled and combined into the people of modern times. These seraphim
are closely associated with the ministry of the race commissioners, and the
group now on Urantia is the original corps assigned to the planet soon after
the day of Pentecost.

6. The angels of the future. These are the projection angels, who forecast a
future age and plan for the realization of the better things of a new and ad-

                               top of page - 1256

vancing dispensation; they are the architects of the successive eras. The group
now on the planet has thus functioned since the beginning of the current
dispensation.

7. The angels of enlightenment. Urantia is now receiving the help of the third
corps of seraphim dedicated to the fostering of planetary education. These
angels are occupied with mental and moral training as it concerns individuals,
families, groups, schools, communities, nations, and whole races.

8. The angels of health. These are the seraphic ministers assigned to the
assistance of those mortal agencies dedicated to the promotion of health and
the prevention of disease. The present corps is the sixth group to serve during
this dispensation.

9. The home seraphim. Urantia now enjoys the services of the fifth group of
angelic ministers dedicated to the preservation and advancement of the home,
the basic institution of human civilization.

10. The angels of industry. This seraphic group is concerned with fostering
industrial development and improving economic conditions among the Urantia
peoples. This corps has been seven times changed since the bestowal of Michael.

11. The angels of diversion. These are the seraphim who foster the values of
play, humor, and rest. They ever seek to uplift man's recreational diversions
and thus to promote the more profitable utilization of human leisure. The
present corps is the third of that order to minister on Urantia.

12. The angels of superhuman ministry. These are the angels of the angels,
those seraphim who are assigned to the ministry of all other superhuman life on
the planet, temporary or permanent. This corps has served since the beginning
of the current dispensation.

When these groups of master seraphim disagree in matters of planetary policy or
procedure, their differences are usually composed by the governor general, but
all his rulings are subject to appeal in accordance with the nature and gravity
of the issues involved in the disagreement.

None of these angelic groups exercise direct or arbitrary control over the
domains of their assignment. They cannot fully control the affairs of their
respective realms of action, but they can and do so manipulate planetary
conditions and so associate circumstances as favorably to influence the spheres
of human activity to which they are attached.

The master seraphim of planetary supervision utilize many agencies for the
prosecution of their missions. They function as ideational clearinghouses, mind
focalizers, and project promoters. While unable to inject new and higher
conceptions into human minds, they often act to intensify some higher ideal
which has already appeared within a human intellect.

But aside from these many means of positive action, the master seraphim insure
planetary progress against vital jeopardy through the mobilization, training,
and maintenance of the reserve corps of destiny. The chief function of these
reservists is to insure against breakdown of evolutionary progress; they are
the provisions which the celestial forces have made against surprise; they are
the guarantees against disaster.

                               top of page - 1257

7. THE RESERVE CORPS OF DESTINY

The reserve corps of destiny consists of living men and women who have been
admitted to the special service of the superhuman administration of world
affairs. This corps is made up of the men and women of each generation who are
chosen by the spirit directors of the realm to assist in the conduct of the
ministry of mercy and wisdom to the children of time on the evolutionary
worlds. It is the general practice in the conduct of the affairs of the
ascension plans to begin this liaison utilization of mortal will creatures
immediately they are competent and trustworthy to assume such responsibilities.
Accordingly, as soon as men and women appear on the stage of temporal action
with sufficient mental capacity, adequate moral status, and requisite
spirituality, they are quickly assigned to the appropriate celestial group of
planetary personalities as human liaisons, mortal assistants.

When human beings are chosen as protectors of planetary destiny, when they
become pivotal individuals in the plans which the world administrators are
prosecuting, at that time the planetary chief of seraphim confirms their
temporal attachment to the seraphic corps and appoints personal destiny
guardians to serve with these mortal reservists. All reservists have
self-conscious Adjusters, and most of them function in the higher cosmic
circles of intellectual achievement and spiritual attainment.

Mortals of the realm are chosen for service in the reserve corps of destiny on
the inhabited worlds because of:

1. Special capacity for being secretly rehearsed for numerous possible
emergency missions in the conduct of various activities of world affairs.

2. Wholehearted dedication to some special social, economic, political,
spiritual, or other cause, coupled with willingness to serve without human
recognition and rewards.

3. The possession of a Thought Adjuster of extraordinary versatility and
probable pre-Urantia experience in coping with planetary difficulties and
contending with impending world emergency situations.

Each division of planetary celestial service is entitled to a liaison corps of
these mortals of destiny standing. The average inhabited world employs seventy
separate corps of destiny, which are intimately connected with the superhuman
current conduct of world affairs. On Urantia there are twelve reserve corps of
destiny, one for each of the planetary groups of seraphic supervision.

The twelve groups of Urantia destiny reservists are composed of mortal
inhabitants of the sphere who have been rehearsed for numerous crucial
positions on earth and are held in readiness to act in possible planetary
emergencies. This combined corps now consists of 962 persons. The smallest
corps numbers 41 and the largest 172. With the exception of less than a score
of contact personalities, the members of this unique group are wholly
unconscious of their preparation for possible function in certain planetary
crises. These mortal reservists are chosen by the corps to which they are
respectively attached and are likewise trained and rehearsed in the deep mind
by the combined technique of Thought Adjuster and seraphic guardian ministry.
Many times numerous other celestial personalities participate in this
unconscious training, and in all this special preparation the midwayers perform
valuable and indispensable services.

                               top of page - 1258

On many worlds the better adapted secondary midway creatures are able to attain
varying degrees of contact with the Thought Adjusters of certain favorably
constituted mortals through the skillful penetration of the minds of the
latters' indwelling. (And it was by just such a fortuitous combination of
cosmic adjustments that these revelations were materialized in the English
language on Urantia.) Such potential contact mortals of the evolutionary worlds
are mobilized in the numerous reserve corps, and it is, to a certain extent,
through these small groups of forward-looking personalities that spiritual
civilization is advanced and the Most Highs are able to rule in the kingdoms of
men. The men and women of these reserve corps of destiny thus have various
degrees of contact with their Adjusters through the intervening ministry of the
midway creatures; but these same mortals are little known to their fellows
except in those rare social emergencies and spiritual exigencies wherein these
reserve personalities function for the prevention of the breakdown of
evolutionary culture or the extinction of the light of living truth. On Urantia
these reservists of destiny have seldom been emblazoned on the pages of human
history.

The reservists unconsciously act as conservators of essential planetary
information. Many times, upon the death of a reservist, a transfer of certain
vital data from the mind of the dying reservist to a younger successor is made
by a liaison of the two Thought Adjusters. The Adjusters undoubtedly function
in many other ways unknown to us, in connection with these reserve corps.

On Urantia the reserve corps of destiny, though having no permanent head, does
have its own permanent councils which constitute its governing organization.
These embrace the judiciary council, the historicity council, the council on
political sovereignty, and many others. From time to time, in accordance with
the corps organization, titular (mortal) heads of the whole reserve corps have
been commissioned by these permanent councils for specific function. The tenure
of such reservist chiefs is usually a matter of a few hours' duration, being
limited to the accomplishment of some specific task at hand.

The Urantia reserve corps had its largest membership in the days of the
Adamites and Andites, steadily declining with the dilution of the violet blood
and reaching its low point around the time of Pentecost, since which time
reserve corps membership has steadily increased.

(The cosmic reserve corps of universe-conscious citizens on Urantia now numbers
over one thousand mortals whose insight of cosmic citizenship far transcends
the sphere of their terrestrial abode, but I am forbidden to reveal the real
nature of the function of this unique group of living human beings.)

Urantia mortals should not allow the comparative spiritual isolation of their
world from certain of the local universe circuits to produce a feeling of
cosmic desertion or planetary orphanage. There is operative on the planet a
very definite and effective superhuman supervision of world affairs and human
destinies.

But it is true that you can have, at best, only a meager idea of an ideal
planetary government. Since the early times of the Planetary Prince, Urantia
has suffered from the miscarriage of the divine plan of world growth and racial
development. The loyal inhabited worlds of Satania are not governed as is
Urantia. Nevertheless, compared with the other isolated worlds, your planetary
governments have not been so inferior; only one or two worlds may be said to be
worse, and a few may be slightly better, but the majority are on a plane of
equality with you.

                               top of page - 1259

No one in the local universe seems to know when the unsettled status of the
planetary administration will terminate. The Nebadon Melchizedeks are inclined
to the opinion that little change will occur in the planetary government and
administration until Michael's second personal arrival on Urantia. Undoubtedly
at this time, if not before, sweeping changes will be effected in planetary
management. But as to the nature of such modifications of world administration,
no one seems to be able even to conjecture. There is no precedent for such an
episode in all the history of the inhabited worlds of the universe of Nebadon.
Among the many things difficult to understand concerning the future government
of Urantia, a prominent one is the location on the planet of a circuit and
divisional headquarters of the archangels.

Your isolated world is not forgotten in the counsels of the universe. Urantia
is not a cosmic orphan stigmatized by sin and shut away from divine watchcare
by rebellion. From Uversa to Salvington and on down to Jerusem, even in Havona
and on Paradise, they all know we are here; and you mortals now dwelling on
Urantia are just as lovingly cherished and just as faithfully watched over as
if the sphere had never been betrayed by a faithless Planetary Prince, even
more so. It is eternally true, "the Father himself loves you."

[Presented by the Chief of Seraphim stationed on Urantia.]

                               top of page - 1260

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³     Seraphic     ³    The Supreme    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³    Guardi...     ³      Bei...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
