                 Urantia Book Paper 116 The Almighty Supreme
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
                            ... The Almighty Supreme
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Paper 116 The Almighty Supreme

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

IF MAN recognized that his Creators--his immediate supervisors--while being
divine were also finite, and that the God of time and space was an evolving and
nonabsolute Deity, then would the inconsistencies of temporal inequalities
cease to be profound religious paradoxes. No longer would religious faith be
prostituted to the promotion of social smugness in the fortunate while serving
only to encourage stoical resignation in the unfortunate victims of social
deprivation.

When viewing the exquisitely perfect spheres of Havona, it is both reasonable
and logical to believe they were made by a perfect, infinite, and absolute
Creator. But that same reason and logic would compel any honest being, when
viewing the turmoil, imperfections, and inequities of Urantia, to conclude that
your world had been made by, and was being managed by, Creators who were
subabsolute, preinfinite, and other than perfect.

Experiential growth implies creature-Creator partnership--God and man in
association. Growth is the earmark of experiential Deity: Havona did not grow;
Havona is and always has been; it is existential like the everlasting Gods who
are its source. But growth characterizes the grand universe.

The Almighty Supreme is a living and evolving Deity of power and personality.
His present domain, the grand universe, is also a growing realm of power and
personality. His destiny is perfection, but his present experience encompasses
the elements of growth and incomplete status.

The Supreme Being functions primarily in the central universe as a spirit
personality; secondarily in the grand universe as God the Almighty, a
personality of power. The tertiary function of the Supreme in the master
universe is now latent, existing only as an unknown mind potential. No one
knows just what this third development of the Supreme Being will disclose. Some
believe that, when the superuniverses are settled in light and life, the
Supreme will become functional from Uversa as the almighty and experiential
sovereign of the grand universe while expanding in power as the superalmighty
of the outer universes. Others speculate that the third stage of Supremacy will
involve the third level of Deity manifestation. But none of us really know.

1. THE SUPREME MIND

The experience of every evolving creature personality is a phase of the
experience of the Almighty Supreme. The intelligent subjugation of every
physical segment of the superuniverses is a part of the growing control of the

                               top of page - 1269

Almighty Supreme. The creative synthesis of power and personality is a part of
the creative urge of the Supreme Mind and is the very essence of the
evolutionary growth of unity in the Supreme Being.

The union of the power and personality attributes of Supremacy is the function
of Supreme Mind; and the completed evolution of the Almighty Supreme will
result in one unified and personal Deity--not in any loosely co-ordinated
association of divine attributes. From the broader perspective, there will be
no Almighty apart from the Supreme, no Supreme apart from the Almighty.

Throughout the evolutionary ages the physical power potential of the Supreme is
vested in the Seven Supreme Power Directors, and the mind potential reposes in
the Seven Master Spirits. The Infinite Mind is the function of the Infinite
Spirit; the cosmic mind, the ministry of the Seven Master Spirits; the Supreme
Mind is in process of actualizing in the co-ordination of the grand universe
and in functional association with the revelation and attainment of God the
Sevenfold.

The time-space mind, the cosmic mind, is differently functioning in the seven
superuniverses, but it is co-ordinated by some unknown associative technique in
the Supreme Being. The Almighty overcontrol of the grand universe is not
exclusively physical and spiritual. In the seven superuniverses it is primarily
material and spiritual, but there are also present phenomena of the Supreme
which are both intellectual and spiritual.

We really know less about the mind of Supremacy than about any other aspect of
this evolving Deity. It is unquestionably active throughout the grand universe
and is believed to have a potential destiny of master universe function which
is of vast extent. But this we do know: Whereas physique may attain completed
growth, and whereas spirit may achieve perfection of development, mind never
ceases to progress--it is the experiential technique of endless progress. The
Supreme is an experiential Deity and therefore never achieves completion of
mind attainment.

2. THE ALMIGHTY AND GOD THE SEVENFOLD

The appearance of the universe power presence of the Almighty is concomitant
with the appearance on the stage of cosmic action of the high creators and
controllers of the evolutionary superuniverses.

God the Supreme derives his spirit and personality attributes from the Paradise
Trinity, but he is power-actualizing in the doings of the Creator Sons, the
Ancients of Days, and the Master Spirits, whose collective acts are the source
of his growing power as almighty sovereign to and in the seven superuniverses.

Unqualified Paradise Deity is incomprehensible to the evolving creatures of
time and space. Eternity and infinity connote a level of deity reality which
time-space creatures cannot comprehend. Infinity of deity and absoluteness of
sovereignty are inherent in the Paradise Trinity, and the Trinity is a reality
which lies somewhat beyond the understanding of mortal man. Time-space
creatures must have origins, relativities, and destinies in order to grasp
universe relationships and to understand the meaning values of divinity.
Therefore does Paradise Deity attenuate and otherwise qualify the
extra-Paradise personalizations of divinity, thus bringing into existence the
Supreme Creators and their

                               top of page - 1270

associates, who ever carry the light of life farther and farther from its
Paradise source until it finds its most distant and beautiful expression in the
earth lives of the bestowal Sons on the evolutionary worlds.

And this is the origin of God the Sevenfold, whose successive levels are
encountered by mortal man in the following order:

1. The Creator Sons (and Creative Spirits).

2. The Ancients of Days.

3. The Seven Master Spirits.

4. The Supreme Being.

5. The Conjoint Actor.

6. The Eternal Son.

7. The Universal Father.

The first three levels are the Supreme Creators; the last three levels are the
Paradise Deities. The Supreme ever intervenes as the experiential spirit
personalization of the Paradise Trinity and as the experiential focus of the
evolutionary almighty power of the creator children of the Paradise Deities.
The Supreme Being is the maximum revelation of Deity to the seven
superuniverses and for the present universe age.

By the technique of mortal logic it might be inferred that the experiential
reunification of the collective acts of the first three levels of God the
Sevenfold would equivalate to the level of Paradise Deity, but such is not the
case. Paradise Deity is existential Deity. The Supreme Creators, in their
divine unity of power and personality, are constitutive and expressive of a new
power potential of experiential Deity. And this power potential of experiential
origin finds inevitable and inescapable union with the experiential Deity of
Trinity origin--the Supreme Being.

God the Supreme is not the Paradise Trinity, neither is he any one or all of
those superuniverse Creators whose functional activities actually synthesize
his evolving almighty power. God the Supreme, while of origin in the Trinity,
becomes manifest to evolutionary creatures as a personality of power only
through the co-ordinated functions of the first three levels of God the
Sevenfold. The Almighty Supreme is now factualizing in time and space through
the activities of the Supreme Creator Personalities, even as in eternity the
Conjoint Actor flashed into being by the will of the Universal Father and the
Eternal Son. These beings of the first three levels of God the Sevenfold are
the very nature and source of the power of the Almighty Supreme; therefore must
they ever accompany and sustain his administrative acts.

3. THE ALMIGHTY AND PARADISE DEITY

The Paradise Deities not only act directly in their gravity circuits throughout
the grand universe, but they also function through their various agencies and
other manifestations, such as:

1. The mind focalizations of the Third Source and Center. The finite domains of
energy and spirit are literally held together by the mind presences of the
Conjoint Actor. This is true from the Creative Spirit in a local universe
through the Reflective Spirits of a superuniverse to the Master Spirits in the

                               top of page - 1271

grand universe. The mind circuits emanating from these varied intelligence
focuses represent the cosmic arena of creature choice. Mind is the flexible
reality which creatures and Creators can so readily manipulate; it is the vital
link connecting matter and spirit. The mind bestowal of the Third Source and
Center unifies the spirit person of God the Supreme with the experiential power
of the evolutionary Almighty.

2. The personality revelations of the Second Source and Center. The mind
presences of the Conjoint Actor unify the spirit of divinity with the pattern
of energy. The bestowal incarnations of the Eternal Son and his Paradise Sons
unify, actually fuse, the divine nature of a Creator with the evolving nature
of a creature. The Supreme is both creature and creator; the possibility of his
being such is revealed in the bestowal actions of the Eternal Son and his
co-ordinate and subordinate Sons. The bestowal orders of sonship, the Michaels
and the Avonals, actually augment their divine natures with bona fide creature
natures which have become theirs by the living of the actual creature life on
the evolutionary worlds. When divinity becomes like humanity, inherent in this
relationship is the possibility that humanity can become divine.

3. The indwelling presences of the First Source and Center. Mind unifies spirit
causations with energy reactions; bestowal ministry unifies divinity
descensions with creature ascensions; and the indwelling fragments of the
Universal Father actually unify the evolving creatures with God on Paradise.
There are many such presences of the Father which indwell numerous orders of
personalities, and in mortal man these divine fragments of God are the Thought
Adjusters. The Mystery Monitors are to human beings what the Paradise Trinity
is to the Supreme Being. The Adjusters are absolute foundations, and upon
absolute foundations freewill choice can cause to be evolved the divine reality
of an eternaliter nature, finaliter nature in the case of man, Deity nature in
God the Supreme.

The creature bestowals of the Paradise orders of sonship enable these divine
Sons to enrich their personalities by the acquisition of the actual nature of
universe creatures, while such bestowals unfailingly reveal to the creatures
themselves the Paradise path of divinity attainment. The Adjuster bestowals of
the Universal Father enable him to draw the personalities of the volitional
will creatures to himself. And throughout all these relationships in the finite
universes the Conjoint Actor is the ever-present source of the mind ministry by
virtue of which these activities take place.

In these and many other ways do the Paradise Deities participate in the
evolutions of time as they unfold on the circling planets of space, and as they
culminate in the emergence of the Supreme personality consequence of all
evolution.

4. THE ALMIGHTY AND THE SUPREME CREATORS

The unity of the Supreme Whole is dependent on the progressive unification of
the finite parts; the actualization of the Supreme is resultant from, and
productive of, these very unifications of the factors of supremacy--the
creators, creatures, intelligences, and energies of the universes.

                               top of page - 1272

During those ages in which the sovereignty of Supremacy is undergoing its time
development, the almighty power of the Supreme is dependent on the divinity
acts of God the Sevenfold, while there seems to be a particularly close
relationship between the Supreme Being and the Conjoint Actor together with his
primary personalities, the Seven Master Spirits. The Infinite Spirit as the
Conjoint Actor functions in many ways which compensate the incompletion of
evolutionary Deity and sustains very close relations to the Supreme. This
closeness of relationship is shared in measure by all of the Master Spirits but
especially by Master Spirit Number Seven, who speaks for the Supreme. This
Master Spirit knows--is in personal contact with--the Supreme.

Early in the projection of the superuniverse scheme of creation, the Master
Spirits joined with the ancestral Trinity in the cocreation of the forty-nine
Reflective Spirits, and concomitantly the Supreme Being functioned creatively
as the culminator of the conjoined acts of the Paradise Trinity and the
creative children of Paradise Deity. Majeston appeared and ever since has
focalized the cosmic presence of the Supreme Mind, while the Master Spirits
continue as source-centers for the far-flung ministry of the cosmic mind.

But the Master Spirits continue in supervision of the Reflective Spirits. The
Seventh Master Spirit is (in his overall supervision of Orvonton from the
central universe) in personal contact with (and has overcontrol of) the seven
Reflective Spirits located on Uversa. In his inter- and intrasuperuniverse
controls and administrations he is in reflective contact with the Reflective
Spirits of his own type located on each superuniverse capital.

These Master Spirits are not only the supporters and augmenters of the
sovereignty of Supremacy, but they are in turn affected by the creative
purposes of the Supreme. Ordinarily, the collective creations of the Master
Spirits are of the quasi-material order (power directors, etc.), while their
individual creations are of the spiritual order (supernaphim, etc.). But when
the Master Spirits collectively produced the Seven Circuit Spirits in response
to the will and purpose of the Supreme Being, it is to be noted that the
offspring of this creative act are spiritual, not material or quasi-material.

And as it is with the Master Spirits of the superuniverses, so is it with the
triune rulers of these supercreations--the Ancients of Days. These
personifications of Trinity justice-judgment in time and space are the field
fulcrums for the mobilizing almighty power of the Supreme, serving as the
sevenfold focal points for the evolution of trinitarian sovereignty in the
domains of time and space. From their vantage point midway between Paradise and
the evolving worlds, these Trinity-origin sovereigns see both ways, know both
ways, and co-ordinate both ways.

But the local universes are the real laboratories in which are worked out the
mind experiments, galactic adventures, divinity unfoldings, and personality
progressions which, when cosmically totaled, constitute the actual foundation
upon which the Supreme is achieving deity evolution in and by experience.

In the local universes even the Creators evolve: The presence of the Conjoint
Actor evolves from a living power focus to the status of the divine personality
of a Universe Mother Spirit; the Creator Son evolves from the nature of
existential Paradise divinity to the experiential nature of supreme
sovereignty. The local universes are the starting points of true evolution, the
spawning

                               top of page - 1273

grounds of bona fide imperfect personalities endowed with the freewill choice
of becoming cocreators of themselves as they are to be.

The Magisterial Sons in their bestowals upon the evolutionary worlds eventually
acquire natures expressive of Paradise divinity in experiential unification
with the highest spiritual values of material human nature. And through these
and other bestowals the Michael Creators likewise acquire the natures and
cosmic viewpoints of their actual local universe children. Such Master Creator
Sons approximate the completion of subsupreme experience; and when their local
universe sovereignty is enlarged to embrace the associated Creative Spirits, it
may be said to approximate the limits of supremacy within the present
potentials of the evolutionary grand universe.

When the bestowal Sons reveal new ways for man to find God, they are not
creating these paths of divinity attainment; rather are they illuminating the
everlasting highways of progression which lead through the presence of the
Supreme to the person of the Paradise Father.

The local universe is the starting place for those personalities who are
farthest from God, and who can therefore experience the greatest degree of
spiritual ascent in the universe, can achieve the maximum of experiential
participation in the cocreation of themselves. These same local universes
likewise provide the greatest possible depth of experience for the descending
personalities, who thereby achieve something which is to them just as
meaningful as the Paradise ascent is to an evolving creature.

Mortal man appears to be necessary to the full function of God the Sevenfold as
this divinity grouping culminates in the actualizing Supreme. There are many
other orders of universe personalities who are equally necessary to the
evolution of the almighty power of the Supreme, but this portrayal is presented
for the edification of human beings, hence is largely limited to those factors
operating in the evolution of God the Sevenfold which are related to mortal
man.

5. THE ALMIGHTY AND THE SEVENFOLD CONTROLLERS

You have been instructed in the relationship of God the Sevenfold to the
Supreme Being, and you should now recognize that the Sevenfold encompasses the
controllers as well as the creators of the grand universe. These sevenfold
controllers of the grand universe embrace the following:

1. The Master Physical Controllers.

2. The Supreme Power Centers.

3. The Supreme Power Directors.

4. The Almighty Supreme.

5. The God of Action--the Infinite Spirit.

6. The Isle of Paradise.

7. The Source of Paradise--the Universal Father.

These seven groups are functionally inseparable from God the Sevenfold and
constitute the physical-control level of this Deity association.

The bifurcation of energy and spirit (stemming from the conjoint presence of
the Eternal Son and the Paradise Isle) was symbolized in the superuniverse

                               top of page - 1274

sense when the Seven Master Spirits unitedly engaged in their first act of
collective creation. This episode witnessed the appearance of the Seven Supreme
Power Directors. Concomitant therewith the spiritual circuits of the Master
Spirits contrastively differentiated from the physical activities of power
director supervision, and immediately did the cosmic mind appear as a new
factor co-ordinating matter and spirit.

The Almighty Supreme is evolving as the overcontroller of the physical power of
the grand universe. In the present universe age this potential of physical
power appears to be centered in the Seven Supreme Power Directors, who operate
through the fixed locations of the power centers and through the mobile
presences of the physical controllers.

The time universes are not perfect; that is their destiny. The struggle for
perfection pertains not only to the intellectual and the spiritual levels but
also to the physical level of energy and mass. The settlement of the seven
superuniverses in light and life presupposes their attainment of physical
stability. And it is conjectured that the final attainment of material
equilibrium will signify the completed evolution of the physical control of the
Almighty.

In the early days of universe building even the Paradise Creators are primarily
concerned with material equilibrium. The pattern of a local universe takes
shape not only as a result of the activities of the power centers but also
because of the space presence of the Creative Spirit. And throughout these
early epochs of local universe building the Creator Son exhibits a
little-understood attribute of material control, and he does not leave his
capital planet until the gross equilibrium of the local universe has been
established.

In the final analysis, all energy responds to mind, and the physical
controllers are the children of the mind God, who is the activator of Paradise
pattern. The intelligence of the power directors is unremittingly devoted to
the task of bringing about material control. Their struggle for physical
dominance over the relationships of energy and the motions of mass never ceases
until they achieve finite victory over the energies and masses which constitute
their perpetual domains of activity.

The spirit struggles of time and space have to do with the evolution of spirit
dominance over matter by the mediation of (personal) mind; the physical
(nonpersonal) evolution of the universes has to do with bringing cosmic energy
into harmony with the equilibrium concepts of mind subject to the overcontrol
of spirit. The total evolution of the entire grand universe is a matter of the
personality unification of the energy-controlling mind with the
spirit-co-ordinated intellect and will be revealed in the full appearance of
the almighty power of the Supreme.

The difficulty in arriving at a state of dynamic equilibrium is inherent in the
fact of the growing cosmos. The established circuits of physical creation are
being continually jeopardized by the appearance of new energy and new mass. A
growing universe is an unsettled uni-

                               top of page - 1275

verse; hence no part of the cosmic whole can find real stability until the
fullness of time witnesses the material completion of the seven superuniverses.

In the settled universes of light and life there are no unexpected physical
events of major importance. Relatively complete control over the material
creation has been achieved; still the problems of the relationship of the
settled universes to the evolving universes continue to challenge the skill of
the Universe Power Directors. But these problems will gradually vanish with the
diminution of new creative activity as the grand universe approaches
culmination of evolutionary expression.

6. SPIRIT DOMINANCE

In the evolutionary superuniverses energy-matter is dominant except in
personality, where spirit through the mediation of mind is struggling for the
mastery. The goal of the evolutionary universes is the subjugation of
energy-matter by mind, the co-ordination of mind with spirit, and all of this
by virtue of the creative and unifying presence of personality. Thus, in
relation to personality, do physical systems become subordinate; mind systems,
co-ordinate; and spirit systems, directive.

This union of power and personality is expressive on deity levels in and as the
Supreme. But the actual evolution of spirit dominance is a growth which is
predicated on the freewill acts of the Creators and creatures of the grand
universe.

On absolute levels, energy and spirit are one. But the moment departure is made
from such absolute levels, difference appears, and as energy and spirit move
spaceward from Paradise, the gulf between them widens until in the local
universes they have become quite divergent. They are no longer identical,
neither are they alike, and mind must intervene to interrelate them.

That energy can be directionized by the action of controller personalities
discloses the responsiveness of energy to mind action. That mass can be
stabilized through the action of these same controlling entities indicates the
responsiveness of mass to the order-producing presence of mind. And that spirit
itself in volitional personality can strive through mind for the mastery of
energy-matter discloses the potential unity of all finite creation.

There is an interdependence of all forces and personalities throughout the
universe of universes. Creator Sons and Creative Spirits depend on the
co-operative function of the power centers and physical controllers in the
organization of universes; the Supreme Power Directors are incomplete without
the overcontrol of the Master Spirits. In a human being the mechanism of
physical life is responsive, in part, to the dictates of (personal) mind. This
very mind may, in turn, become dominated by the leadings of purposive spirit,
and the result of such evolutionary development is the production of a new
child of the Supreme, a new personal unification of the several kinds of cosmic
reality.

And as it is with the parts, so it is with the whole; the spirit person of
Supremacy requires the evolutionary power of the Almighty to achieve completion
of Deity and to attain destiny of Trinity association. The effort is made by
the personalities of time and space, but the culmination and consummation of
this effort is the act of the Almighty Supreme. And while the growth of the
whole is thus a totalizing of the collective growth of the parts, it equally
follows that the evolution of the parts is a segmented reflection of the
purposive growth of the whole.

On Paradise, monota and spirit are as one--indistinguishable except by name. In
Havona, matter and spirit, while distinguishably different, are at the

                               top of page - 1276

same time innately harmonious. In the seven superuniverses, however, there is
great divergence; there is a wide gulf between cosmic energy and divine spirit;
therefore is there a greater experiential potential for mind action in
harmonizing and eventually unifying physical pattern with spiritual purposes.
In the time-evolving universes of space there is greater divinity attenuation,
more difficult problems to be solved, and larger opportunity to acquire
experience in their solution. And this entire superuniverse situation brings
into being a larger arena of evolutionary existence in which the possibility of
cosmic experience is made available alike to creature and Creator--even to
Supreme Deity.

The dominance of spirit, which is existential on absolute levels, becomes an
evolutionary experience on finite levels and in the seven superuniverses. And
this experience is shared alike by all, from mortal man to the Supreme Being.
All strive, personally strive, in the achievement; all participate, personally
participate, in the destiny.

7. THE LIVING ORGANISM OF THE GRAND UNIVERSE

The grand universe is not only a material creation of physical grandeur, spirit
sublimity, and intellectual magnitude, it is also a magnificent and responsive
living organism. There is actual life pulsating throughout the mechanism of the
vast creation of the vibrant cosmos. The physical reality of the universes is
symbolic of the perceivable reality of the Almighty Supreme; and this material
and living organism is penetrated by intelligence circuits, even as the human
body is traversed by a network of neural sensation paths. This physical
universe is permeated by energy lanes which effectively activate material
creation, even as the human body is nourished and energized by the circulatory
distribution of the assimilable energy products of nourishment. The vast
universe is not without those co-ordinating centers of magnificent overcontrol
which might be compared to the delicate chemical-control system of the human
mechanism. But if you only knew something about the physique of a power center,
we could, by analogy, tell you so much more about the physical universe.

Much as mortals look to solar energy for life maintenance, so does the grand
universe depend upon the unfailing energies emanating from nether Paradise to
sustain the material activities and cosmic motions of space.

Mind has been given to mortals wherewith they may become self-conscious of
identity and personality; and mind--even a Supreme Mind--has been bestowed upon
the totality of the finite whereby the spirit of this emerging personality of
the cosmos ever strives for the mastery of energy-matter.

Mortal man is responsive to spirit guidance, even as the grand universe
responds to the far-flung spirit-gravity grasp of the Eternal Son, the
universal supermaterial cohesion of the eternal spiritual values of all the
creations of the finite cosmos of time and space.

Human beings are capable of making an everlasting self-identification with
total and indestructible universe reality--fusion with the indwelling Thought
Adjuster. Likewise does the Supreme everlastingly depend on the absolute
stability of Original Deity, the Paradise Trinity.

Man's urge for Paradise perfection, his striving for God-attainment, creates a
genuine divinity tension in the living cosmos which can only be resolved by the
evolution of an immortal soul; this is what happens in the experience of a
single mortal creature. But when all creatures and all Creators in the grand

                               top of page - 1277

universe likewise strive for God-attainment and divine perfection, there is
built up a profound cosmic tension which can only find resolution in the
sublime synthesis of almighty power with the spirit person of the evolving God
of all creatures, the Supreme Being.

[Sponsored by a Mighty Messenger temporarily sojourning on Urantia.]

                               top of page - 1278

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART III: The History of Urantia
  : The Origin Of Urantia Life Establishment On Urantia The Marine-life Era On
Urantia Urantia During The Early Land-life Era The Mammalian Era On Urantia The
 Dawn Races Of Early Man The First Human Family The Evolutionary Races Of Color
   The Overcontrol Of Evolution The Planetary Prince Of Urantia The Planetary
  Rebellion The Dawn Of Civilization Primitive Human Institutions The Evolution
Of Human Government Development Of The State Government On A Neighboring Planet
  The Garden Of Eden Adam And Eve The Default Of Adam And Eve The Second Garden
The Midway Creatures The Violet Race After The Days Of Adam Andite Expansion In
 The Orient Andite Expansion In The Occident Development Of Modern Civilization
The Evolution Of Marriage The Marriage Institution Marriage And Family Life The
    Origins Of Worship Early Evolution Of Religion The Ghost Cults Fetishes,
  Charms, And Magic Sin, Sacrifice, And Atonement Shamanism--medicine Men And
   Priests The Evolution Of Prayer The Later Evolution Of Religion Machiventa
  Melchizedek The Melchizedek Teachings In The Orient The Melchizedek Teachings
In The Levant Yahweh--god Of The Hebrews Evolution Of The God Concept Among The
    Hebrews The Melchizedek Teachings In The Occident The Social Problems Of
      Religion Religion In Human Experience The Real Nature Of Religion The
  Foundations Of Religious Faith The Reality Of Religious Experience Growth Of
  The Trinity Concept Deity And Reality Universe Levels Of Reality Origin And
 Nature Of Thought Adjusters Mission And Ministry Of Thought Adjusters Relation
 Of Adjusters To Universe Creatures Relation Of Adjusters To Individual Mortals
  The Adjuster And The Soul Personality Survival Seraphic Guardians Of Destiny
  Seraphic Planetary Government The Supreme Being The Almighty Supreme God The
  Supreme Supreme And Ultimate--time And Space The Bestowals Of Christ Michael

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                 ³                   ³        ³            ³
³   The Supreme    ³ God The Supreme ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³  SiteMap!  ³
³      Bei...      ³                 ³       PA...       ³        ³            ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
