                  Urantia Book Paper 125 Jesus At Jerusalem
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
           To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         Paper 125 Jesus At Jerusalem

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

NO INCIDENT in all Jesus' eventful earth career was more engaging, more humanly
thrilling, than this, his first remembered visit to Jerusalem. He was
especially stimulated by the experience of attending the temple discussions by
himself, and it long stood out in his memory as the great event of his later
childhood and early youth. This was his first opportunity to enjoy a few days
of independent living, the exhilaration of going and coming without restraint
and restrictions. This brief period of undirected living, during the week
following the Passover, was the first complete freedom from responsibility he
had ever enjoyed. And it was many years subsequent to this before he again had
a like period of freedom from all sense of responsibility, even for a short
time.

Women seldom went to the Passover feast at Jerusalem; they were not required to
be present. Jesus, however, virtually refused to go unless his mother would
accompany them. And when his mother decided to go, many other Nazareth women
were led to make the journey, so that the Passover company contained the
largest number of women, in proportion to men, ever to go up to the Passover
from Nazareth. Ever and anon, on the way to Jerusalem, they chanted the one
hundred and thirtieth Psalm.

From the time they left Nazareth until they reached the summit of the Mount of
Olives, Jesus experienced one long stress of expectant anticipation. All
through a joyful childhood he had reverently heard of Jerusalem and its temple;
now he was soon to behold them in reality. From the Mount of Olives and from
the outside, on closer inspection, the temple had been all and more than Jesus
had expected; but when he once entered its sacred portals, the great
disillusionment began.

In company with his parents Jesus passed through the temple precincts on his
way to join that group of new sons of the law who were about to be consecrated
as citizens of Israel. He was a little disappointed by the general demeanor of
the temple throngs, but the first great shock of the day came when his mother
took leave of them on her way to the women's gallery. It had never occurred to
Jesus that his mother was not to accompany him to the consecration ceremonies,
and he was thoroughly indignant that she was made to suffer from such unjust
discrimination. While he strongly resented this, aside from a few remarks of
protest to his father, he said nothing. But he thought, and thought deeply, as
his questions to the scribes and teachers a week later disclosed.

He passed through the consecration rituals but was disappointed by their
perfunctory and routine natures. He missed that personal interest which
characterized the ceremonies of the synagogue at Nazareth. He then returned to
greet his mother and prepared to accompany his father on his first trip about
the

                               top of page - 1378

temple and its various courts, galleries, and corridors. The temple precincts
could accommodate over two hundred thousand worshipers at one time, and while
the vastness of these buildings--in comparison with any he had ever
seen--greatly impressed his mind, he was more intrigued by the contemplation of
the spiritual significance of the temple ceremonies and their associated
worship.

Though many of the temple rituals very touchingly impressed his sense of the
beautiful and the symbolic, he was always disappointed by the explanation of
the real meanings of these ceremonies which his parents would offer in answer
to his many searching inquiries. Jesus simply would not accept explanations of
worship and religious devotion which involved belief in the wrath of God or the
anger of the Almighty. In further discussion of these questions, after the
conclusion of the temple visit, when his father became mildly insistent that he
acknowledge acceptance of the orthodox Jewish beliefs, Jesus turned suddenly
upon his parents and, looking appealingly into the eyes of his father, said:
"My father, it cannot be true--the Father in heaven cannot so regard his erring
children on earth. The heavenly Father cannot love his children less than you
love me. And I well know, no matter what unwise thing I might do, you would
never pour out wrath upon me nor vent anger against me. If you, my earthly
father, possess such human reflections of the Divine, how much more must the
heavenly Father be filled with goodness and overflowing with mercy. I refuse to
believe that my Father in heaven loves me less than my father on earth."

When Joseph and Mary heard these words of their first-born son, they held their
peace. And never again did they seek to change his mind about the love of God
and the mercifulness of the Father in heaven.

1. JESUS VIEWS THE TEMPLE

Everywhere Jesus went throughout the temple courts, he was shocked and sickened
by the spirit of irreverence which he observed. He deemed the conduct of the
temple throngs to be inconsistent with their presence in "his Father's house."
But he received the shock of his young life when his father escorted him into
the court of the gentiles with its noisy jargon, loud talking and cursing,
mingled indiscriminately with the bleating of sheep and the babble of noises
which betrayed the presence of the money-changers and the vendors of
sacrificial animals and sundry other commercial commodities.

But most of all was his sense of propriety outraged by the sight of the
frivolous courtesans parading about within this precinct of the temple, just
such painted women as he had so recently seen when on a visit to Sepphoris.
This profanation of the temple fully aroused all his youthful indignation, and
he did not hesitate to express himself freely to Joseph.

Jesus admired the sentiment and service of the temple, but he was shocked by
the spiritual ugliness which he beheld on the faces of so many of the
unthinking worshipers.

They now passed down to the priests' court beneath the rock ledge in front of
the temple, where the altar stood, to observe the killing of the droves of
animals and the washing away of the blood from the hands of the officiating
slaughter priests at the bronze fountain. The bloodstained pavement, the gory
hands of the priests, and the sounds of the dying animals were more than this
nature-loving lad could stand. The terrible sight sickened this boy of
Nazareth; he clutched his father's arm and begged to be taken away. They walked
back

                               top of page - 1379

through the court of the gentiles, and even the coarse laughter and profane
jesting which he there heard were a relief from the sights he had just beheld.

Joseph saw how his son had sickened at the sight of the temple rites and wisely
led him around to view the "gate beautiful," the artistic gate made of
Corinthian bronze. But Jesus had had enough for his first visit at the temple.
They returned to the upper court for Mary and walked about in the open air and
away from the crowds for an hour, viewing the Asmonean palace, the stately home
of Herod, and the tower of the Roman guards. During this stroll Joseph
explained to Jesus that only the inhabitants of Jerusalem were permitted to
witness the daily sacrifices in the temple, and that the dwellers in Galilee
came up only three times a year to participate in the temple worship: at the
Passover, at the feast of Pentecost (seven weeks after Passover), and at the
feast of tabernacles in October. These feasts were established by Moses. They
then discussed the two later established feasts of the dedication and of Purim.
Afterward they went to their lodgings and made ready for the celebration of the
Passover.

2. JESUS AND THE PASSOVER

Five Nazareth families were guests of, or associates with, the family of Simon
of Bethany in the celebration of the Passover, Simon having purchased the
paschal lamb for the company. It was the slaughter of these lambs in such
enormous numbers that had so affected Jesus on his temple visit. It had been
the plan to eat the Passover with Mary's relatives, but Jesus persuaded his
parents to accept the invitation to go to Bethany.

That night they assembled for the Passover rites, eating the roasted flesh with
unleavened bread and bitter herbs. Jesus, being a new son of the covenant, was
asked to recount the origin of the Passover, and this he well did, but he
somewhat disconcerted his parents by the inclusion of numerous remarks mildly
reflecting the impressions made on his youthful but thoughtful mind by the
things which he had so recently seen and heard. This was the beginning of the
seven-day ceremonies of the feast of the Passover.

Even at this early date, though he said nothing about such matters to his
parents, Jesus had begun to turn over in his mind the propriety of celebrating
the Passover without the slaughtered lamb. He felt assured in his own mind that
the Father in heaven was not pleased with this spectacle of sacrificial
offerings, and as the years passed, he became increasingly determined someday
to establish the celebration of a bloodless Passover.

Jesus slept very little that night. His rest was greatly disturbed by revolting
dreams of slaughter and suffering. His mind was distraught and his heart torn
by the inconsistencies and absurdities of the theology of the whole Jewish
ceremonial system. His parents likewise slept little. They were greatly
disconcerted by the events of the day just ended. They were completely upset in
their own hearts by the lad's, to them, strange and determined attitude. Mary
became nervously agitated during the fore part of the night, but Joseph
remained calm, though he was equally puzzled. Both of them feared to talk
frankly with the lad about these problems, though Jesus would gladly have
talked with his parents if they had dared to encourage him.

The next day's services at the temple were more acceptable to Jesus and did
much to relieve the unpleasant memories of the previous day. The following

                               top of page - 1380

morning young Lazarus took Jesus in hand, and they began a systematic
exploration of Jerusalem and its environs. Before the day was over, Jesus
discovered the various places about the temple where teaching and question
conferences were in progress; and aside from a few visits to the holy of holies
to gaze in wonder as to what really was behind the veil of separation, he spent
most of his time about the temple at these teaching conferences.

Throughout the Passover week, Jesus kept his place among the new sons of the
commandment, and this meant that he must seat himself outside the rail which
segregated all persons who were not full citizens of Israel. Being thus made
conscious of his youth, he refrained from asking the many questions which
surged back and forth in his mind; at least he refrained until the Passover
celebration had ended and these restrictions on the newly consecrated youths
were lifted.

On Wednesday of the Passover week, Jesus was permitted to go home with Lazarus
to spend the night at Bethany. This evening, Lazarus, Martha, and Mary heard
Jesus discuss things temporal and eternal, human and divine, and from that
night on they all three loved him as if he had been their own brother.

By the end of the week, Jesus saw less of Lazarus since he was not eligible for
admission to even the outer circle of the temple discussions, though he
attended some of the public talks delivered in the outer courts. Lazarus was
the same age as Jesus, but in Jerusalem youths were seldom admitted to the
consecration of sons of the law until they were a full thirteen years of age.

Again and again, during the Passover week, his parents would find Jesus sitting
off by himself with his youthful head in his hands, profoundly thinking. They
had never seen him behave like this, and not knowing how much he was confused
in mind and troubled in spirit by the experience through which he was passing,
they were sorely perplexed; they did not know what to do. They welcomed the
passing of the days of the Passover week and longed to have their strangely
acting son safely back in Nazareth.

Day by day Jesus was thinking through his problems. By the end of the week he
had made many adjustments; but when the time came to return to Nazareth, his
youthful mind was still swarming with perplexities and beset by a host of
unanswered questions and unsolved problems.

Before Joseph and Mary left Jerusalem, in company with Jesus' Nazareth teacher
they made definite arrangements for Jesus to return when he reached the age of
fifteen to begin his long course of study in one of the best-known academies of
the rabbis. Jesus accompanied his parents and teacher on their visits to the
school, but they were all distressed to observe how indifferent he seemed to
all they said and did. Mary was deeply pained at his reactions to the Jerusalem
visit, and Joseph was profoundly perplexed at the lad's strange remarks and
unusual conduct.

After all, Passover week had been a great event in Jesus' life. He had enjoyed
the opportunity of meeting scores of boys about his own age, fellow candidates
for the consecration, and he utilized such contacts as a means of learning how
people lived in Mesopotamia, Turkestan, and Parthia, as well as in the
Far-Western provinces of Rome. He was already fairly conversant with the way in
which the youth of Egypt and other regions near Palestine grew up. There were
thousands of young people in Jerusalem at this time, and the Nazareth lad
personally met, and more or less extensively interviewed, more than one hundred
and fifty. He was particularly interested in those who hailed from the Far-

                               top of page - 1381

Eastern and the remote Western countries. As a result of these contacts the lad
began to entertain a desire to travel about the world for the purpose of
learning how the various groups of his fellow men toiled for their livelihood.

3. DEPARTURE OF JOSEPH AND MARY

It had been arranged that the Nazareth party should gather in the region of the
temple at midforenoon on the first day of the week after the Passover festival
had ended. This they did and started out on the return journey to Nazareth.
Jesus had gone into the temple to listen to the discussions while his parents
awaited the assembly of their fellow travelers. Presently the company prepared
to depart, the men going in one group and the women in another as was their
custom in journeying to and from the Jerusalem festivals. Jesus had gone up to
Jerusalem in company with his mother and the women. Being now a young man of
the consecration, he was supposed to journey back to Nazareth in company with
his father and the men. But as the Nazareth party moved on toward Bethany,
Jesus was completely absorbed in the discussion of angels, in the temple, being
wholly unmindful of the passing of the time for the departure of his parents.
And he did not realize that he had been left behind until the noontime
adjournment of the temple conferences.

The Nazareth travelers did not miss Jesus because Mary surmised he journeyed
with the men, while Joseph thought he traveled with the women since he had gone
up to Jerusalem with the women, leading Mary's donkey. They did not discover
his absence until they reached Jericho and prepared to tarry for the night.
After making inquiry of the last of the party to reach Jericho and learning
that none of them had seen their son, they spent a sleepless night, turning
over in their minds what might have happened to him, recounting many of his
unusual reactions to the events of Passover week, and mildly chiding each other
for not seeing to it that he was in the group before they left Jerusalem.

4. FIRST AND SECOND DAYS IN THE TEMPLE

In the meantime, Jesus had remained in the temple throughout the afternoon,
listening to the discussions and enjoying the more quiet and decorous
atmosphere, the great crowds of Passover week having about disappeared. At the
conclusion of the afternoon discussions, in none of which Jesus participated,
he betook himself to Bethany, arriving just as Simon's family made ready to
partake of their evening meal. The three youngsters were overjoyed to greet
Jesus, and he remained in Simon's house for the night. He visited very little
during the evening, spending much of the time alone in the garden meditating.

Early next day Jesus was up and on his way to the temple. On the brow of Olivet
he paused and wept over the sight his eyes beheld--a spiritually impoverished
people, tradition bound and living under the surveillance of the Roman legions.
Early forenoon found him in the temple with his mind made up to take part in
the discussions. Meanwhile, Joseph and Mary also had arisen with the early dawn
with the intention of retracing their steps to Jerusalem. First, they hastened
to the house of their relatives, where they had lodged as a family during the
Passover week, but inquiry elicited the fact that no one had seen Jesus. After
searching all day and finding no trace of him, they returned to their relatives
for the night.

                               top of page - 1382

At the second conference Jesus had made bold to ask questions, and in a very
amazing way he participated in the temple discussions but always in a manner
consistent with his youth. Sometimes his pointed questions were somewhat
embarrassing to the learned teachers of the Jewish law, but he evinced such a
spirit of candid fairness, coupled with an evident hunger for knowledge, that
the majority of the temple teachers were disposed to treat him with every
consideration. But when he presumed to question the justice of putting to death
a drunken gentile who had wandered outside the court of the gentiles and
unwittingly entered the forbidden and reputedly sacred precincts of the temple,
one of the more intolerant teachers grew impatient with the lad's implied
criticisms and, glowering down upon him, asked how old he was. Jesus replied,
"thirteen years lacking a trifle more than four months." "Then," rejoined the
now irate teacher, "why are you here, since you are not of age as a son of the
law?" And when Jesus explained that he had received consecration during the
Passover, and that he was a finished student of the Nazareth schools, the
teachers with one accord derisively replied, "We might have known; he is from
Nazareth." But the leader insisted that Jesus was not to be blamed if the
rulers of the synagogue at Nazareth had graduated him, technically, when he was
twelve instead of thirteen; and notwithstanding that several of his detractors
got up and left, it was ruled that the lad might continue undisturbed as a
pupil of the temple discussions.

When this, his second day in the temple, was finished, again he went to Bethany
for the night. And again he went out in the garden to meditate and pray. It was
apparent that his mind was concerned with the contemplation of weighty
problems.

5. THE THIRD DAY IN THE TEMPLE

Jesus' third day with the scribes and teachers in the temple witnessed the
gathering of many spectators who, having heard of this youth from Galilee, came
to enjoy the experience of seeing a lad confuse the wise men of the law. Simon
also came down from Bethany to see what the boy was up to. Throughout this day
Joseph and Mary continued their anxious search for Jesus, even going several
times into the temple but never thinking to scrutinize the several discussion
groups, although they once came almost within hearing distance of his
fascinating voice.

Before the day had ended, the entire attention of the chief discussion group of
the temple had become focused upon the questions being asked by Jesus. Among
his many questions were:

1. What really exists in the holy of holies, behind the veil?

2. Why should mothers in Israel be segregated from the male temple worshipers?

3. If God is a father who loves his children, why all this slaughter of animals
to gain divine favor--has the teaching of Moses been misunderstood?

4. Since the temple is dedicated to the worship of the Father in heaven, is it
consistent to permit the presence of those who engage in secular barter and
trade?

5. Is the expected Messiah to become a temporal prince to sit on the throne of
David, or is he to function as the light of life in the establishment of a
spiritual kingdom?

                               top of page - 1383

And all the day through, those who listened marveled at these questions, and
none was more astonished than Simon. For more than four hours this Nazareth
youth plied these Jewish teachers with thought-provoking and heart-searching
questions. He made few comments on the remarks of his elders. He conveyed his
teaching by the questions he would ask. By the deft and subtle phrasing of a
question he would at one and the same time challenge their teaching and suggest
his own. In the manner of his asking a question there was an appealing
combination of sagacity and humor which endeared him even to those who more or
less resented his youthfulness. He was always eminently fair and considerate in
the asking of these penetrating questions. On this eventful afternoon in the
temple he exhibited that same reluctance to take unfair advantage of an
opponent which characterized his entire subsequent public ministry. As a youth,
and later on as a man, he seemed to be utterly free from all egoistic desire to
win an argument merely to experience logical triumph over his fellows, being
interested supremely in just one thing: to proclaim everlasting truth and thus
effect a fuller revelation of the eternal God.

When the day was over, Simon and Jesus wended their way back to Bethany. For
most of the distance both the man and the boy were silent. Again Jesus paused
on the brow of Olivet, but as he viewed the city and its temple, he did not
weep; he only bowed his head in silent devotion.

After the evening meal at Bethany he again declined to join the merry circle
but instead went to the garden, where he lingered long into the night, vainly
endeavoring to think out some definite plan of approach to the problem of his
lifework and to decide how best he might labor to reveal to his spiritually
blinded countrymen a more beautiful concept of the heavenly Father and so set
them free from their terrible bondage to law, ritual, ceremonial, and musty
tradition. But the clear light did not come to the truth-seeking lad.

6. THE FOURTH DAY IN THE TEMPLE

Jesus was strangely unmindful of his earthly parents; even at breakfast, when
Lazarus's mother remarked that his parents must be about home by that time,
Jesus did not seem to comprehend that they would be somewhat worried about his
having lingered behind.

Again he journeyed to the temple, but he did not pause to meditate at the brow
of Olivet. In the course of the morning's discussions much time was devoted to
the law and the prophets, and the teachers were astonished that Jesus was so
familiar with the Scriptures, in Hebrew as well as Greek. But they were amazed
not so much by his knowledge of truth as by his youth.

At the afternoon conference they had hardly begun to answer his question
relating to the purpose of prayer when the leader invited the lad to come
forward and, sitting beside him, bade him state his own views regarding prayer
and worship.

The evening before, Jesus' parents had heard about this strange youth who so
deftly sparred with the expounders of the law, but it had not occurred to them
that this lad was their son. They had about decided to journey out to the home
of Zacharias as they thought Jesus might have gone thither to see Elizabeth and
John. Thinking Zacharias might perhaps be at the temple, they stopped there on
their way to the City of Judah. As they strolled through the courts of the

                               top of page - 1384

temple, imagine their surprise and amazement when they recognized the voice of
the missing lad and beheld him seated among the temple teachers.

Joseph was speechless, but Mary gave vent to her long-pent-up fear and anxiety
when, rushing up to the lad, now standing to greet his astonished parents, she
said: "My child, why have you treated us like this? It is now more than three
days that your father and I have searched for you sorrowing. Whatever possessed
you to desert us?" It was a tense moment. All eyes were turned on Jesus to hear
what he would say. His father looked reprovingly at him but said nothing.

It should be remembered that Jesus was supposed to be a young man. He had
finished the regular schooling of a child, had been recognized as a son of the
law, and had received consecration as a citizen of Israel. And yet his mother
more than mildly upbraided him before all the people assembled, right in the
midst of the most serious and sublime effort of his young life, thus bringing
to an inglorious termination one of the greatest opportunities ever to be
granted him to function as a teacher of truth, a preacher of righteousness, a
revealer of the loving character of his Father in heaven.

But the lad was equal to the occasion. When you take into fair consideration
all the factors which combined to make up this situation, you will be better
prepared to fathom the wisdom of the boy's reply to his mother's unintended
rebuke. After a moment's thought, Jesus answered his mother, saying: "Why is it
that you have so long sought me? Would you not expect to find me in my Father's
house since the time has come when I should be about my Father's business?"

Everyone was astonished at the lad's manner of speaking. Silently they all
withdrew and left him standing alone with his parents. Presently the young man
relieved the embarrassment of all three when he quietly said: "Come, my
parents, none has done aught but that which he thought best. Our Father in
heaven has ordained these things; let us depart for home."

In silence they started out, arriving at Jericho for the night. Only once did
they pause, and that on the brow of Olivet, when the lad raised his staff aloft
and, quivering from head to foot under the surging of intense emotion, said: "O
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, and the people thereof, what slaves you are--subservient
to the Roman yoke and victims of your own traditions--but I will return to
cleanse yonder temple and deliver my people from this bondage!"

On the three days' journey to Nazareth Jesus said little; neither did his
parents say much in his presence. They were truly at a loss to understand the
conduct of their first-born son, but they did treasure in their hearts his
sayings, even though they could not fully comprehend their meanings.

Upon reaching home, Jesus made a brief statement to his parents, assuring them
of his affection and implying that they need not fear he would again give any
occasion for their suffering anxiety because of his conduct. He concluded this
momentous statement by saying: "While I must do the will of my Father in
heaven, I will also be obedient to my father on earth. I will await my hour."

Though Jesus, in his mind, would many times refuse to consent to the
well-intentioned but misguided efforts of his parents to dictate the course of
his thinking or to establish the plan of his work on earth, still, in every
manner consistent with his dedication to the doing of his Paradise Father's
will, he did most gracefully conform to the desires of his earthly father and
to the usages of his family

                               top of page - 1385

in the flesh. Even when he could not consent, he would do everything possible
to conform. He was an artist in the matter of adjusting his dedication to duty
to his obligations of family loyalty and social service.

Joseph was puzzled, but Mary, as she reflected on these experiences, gained
comfort, eventually viewing his utterance on Olivet as prophetic of the
Messianic mission of her son as Israel's deliverer. She set to work with
renewed energy to mold his thoughts into patriotic and nationalistic channels
and enlisted the efforts of her brother, Jesus' favorite uncle; and in every
other way did the mother of Jesus address herself to the task of preparing her
first-born son to assume the leadership of those who would restore the throne
of David and forever cast off the gentile yoke of political bondage.

                               top of page - 1386

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³    The Later     ³      The Two      ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³     Child...     ³    Crucial...     ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
