            Urantia Book Paper 129 The Later Adult Life Of Jesus
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
           To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 129 The Later Adult Life Of Jesus

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

JESUS had fully and finally separated himself from the management of the
domestic affairs of the Nazareth family and from the immediate direction of its
individuals. He continued, right up to the event of his baptism, to contribute
to the family finances and to take a keen personal interest in the spiritual
welfare of every one of his brothers and sisters. And always was he ready to do
everything humanly possible for the comfort and happiness of his widowed
mother.

The Son of Man had now made every preparation for detaching himself permanently
from the Nazareth home; and this was not easy for him to do. Jesus naturally
loved his people; he loved his family, and this natural affection had been
tremendously augmented by his extraordinary devotion to them. The more fully we
bestow ourselves upon our fellows, the more we come to love them; and since
Jesus had given himself so fully to his family, he loved them with a great and
fervent affection.

All the family had slowly awakened to the realization that Jesus was making
ready to leave them. The sadness of the anticipated separation was only
tempered by this graduated method of preparing them for the announcement of his
intended departure. For more than four years they discerned that he was
planning for this eventual separation.

1. THE TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR (A.D. 21)

In January of this year, A.D. 21, on a rainy Sunday morning, Jesus took
unceremonious leave of his family, only explaining that he was going over to
Tiberias and then on a visit to other cities about the Sea of Galilee. And thus
he left them, never again to be a regular member of that household.

He spent one week at Tiberias, the new city which was soon to succeed Sepphoris
as the capital of Galilee; and finding little to interest him, he passed on
successively through Magdala and Bethsaida to Capernaum, where he stopped to
pay a visit to his father's friend Zebedee. Zebedee's sons were fishermen; he
himself was a boatbuilder. Jesus of Nazareth was an expert in both designing
and building; he was a master at working with wood; and Zebedee had long known
of the skill of the Nazareth craftsman. For a long time Zebedee had
contemplated making improved boats; he now laid his plans before Jesus and
invited the visiting carpenter to join him in the enterprise, and Jesus readily
consented.

Jesus worked with Zebedee only a little more than one year, but during that
time he created a new style of boat and established entirely new methods of
boatmaking. By superior technique and greatly improved methods of steaming the

                               top of page - 1420

boards, Jesus and Zebedee began to build boats of a very superior type, craft
which were far more safe for sailing the lake than were the older types. For
several years Zebedee had more work, turning out these new-style boats, than
his small establishment could handle; in less than five years practically all
the craft on the lake had been built in the shop of Zebedee at Capernaum. Jesus
became well known to the Galilean fisherfolk as the designer of the new boats.

Zebedee was a moderately well-to-do man; his boatbuilding shops were on the
lake to the south of Capernaum, and his home was situated down the lake shore
near the fishing headquarters of Bethsaida. Jesus lived in the home of Zebedee
during the year and more he remained at Capernaum. He had long worked alone in
the world, that is, without a father, and greatly enjoyed this period of
working with a father-partner.

Zebedee's wife, Salome, was a relative of Annas, onetime high priest at
Jerusalem and still the most influential of the Sadducean group, having been
deposed only eight years previously. Salome became a great admirer of Jesus.
She loved him as she loved her own sons, James, John, and David, while her four
daughters looked upon Jesus as their elder brother. Jesus often went out
fishing with James, John, and David, and they learned that he was an
experienced fisherman as well as an expert boatbuilder.

All this year Jesus sent money each month to James. He returned to Nazareth in
October to attend Martha's wedding, and he was not again in Nazareth for over
two years, when he returned shortly before the double wedding of Simon and
Jude.

Throughout this year Jesus built boats and continued to observe how men lived
on earth. Frequently he would go down to visit at the caravan station,
Capernaum being on the direct travel route from Damascus to the south.
Capernaum was a strong Roman military post, and the garrison's commanding
officer was a gentile believer in Yahweh, "a devout man," as the Jews were wont
to designate such proselytes. This officer belonged to a wealthy Roman family,
and he took it upon himself to build a beautiful synagogue in Capernaum, which
had been presented to the Jews a short time before Jesus came to live with
Zebedee. Jesus conducted the services in this new synagogue more than half the
time this year, and some of the caravan people who chanced to attend remembered
him as the carpenter from Nazareth.

When it came to the payment of taxes, Jesus registered himself as a "skilled
craftsman of Capernaum." From this day on to the end of his earth life he was
known as a resident of Capernaum. He never claimed any other legal residence,
although he did, for various reasons, permit others to assign his residence to
Damascus, Bethany, Nazareth, and even Alexandria.

At the Capernaum synagogue he found many new books in the library chests, and
he spent at least five evenings a week at intense study. One evening he devoted
to social life with the older folks, and one evening he spent with the young
people. There was something gracious and inspiring about the personality of
Jesus which invariably attracted young people. He always made them feel at ease
in his presence. Perhaps his great secret in getting along with them consisted
in the twofold fact that he was always interested in what they were doing,
while he seldom offered them advice unless they asked for it.

The Zebedee family almost worshiped Jesus, and they never failed to attend the
conferences of questions and answers which he conducted each evening after

                               top of page - 1421

supper before he departed for the synagogue to study. The youthful neighbors
also came in frequently to attend these after-supper meetings. To these little
gatherings Jesus gave varied and advanced instruction, just as advanced as they
could comprehend. He talked quite freely with them, expressing his ideas and
ideals about politics, sociology, science, and philosophy, but never presumed
to speak with authoritative finality except when discussing religion--the
relation of man to God.

Once a week Jesus held a meeting with the entire household, shop, and shore
helpers, for Zebedee had many employees. And it was among these workers that
Jesus was first called "the Master." They all loved him. He enjoyed his labors
with Zebedee in Capernaum, but he missed the children playing out by the side
of the Nazareth carpenter shop.

Of the sons of Zebedee, James was the most interested in Jesus as a teacher, as
a philosopher. John cared most for his religious teaching and opinions. David
respected him as a mechanic but took little stock in his religious views and
philosophic teachings.

Frequently Jude came over on the Sabbath to hear Jesus talk in the synagogue
and would tarry to visit with him. And the more Jude saw of his eldest brother,
the more he became convinced that Jesus was a truly great man.

This year Jesus made great advances in the ascendant mastery of his human mind
and attained new and high levels of conscious contact with his indwelling
Thought Adjuster.

This was the last year of his settled life. Never again did Jesus spend a whole
year in one place or at one undertaking. The days of his earth pilgrimages were
rapidly approaching. Periods of intense activity were not far in the future,
but there were now about to intervene between his simple but intensely active
life of the past and his still more intense and strenuous public ministry, a
few years of extensive travel and highly diversified personal activity. His
training as a man of the realm had to be completed before he could enter upon
his career of teaching and preaching as the perfected God-man of the divine and
posthuman phases of his Urantia bestowal.

2. THE TWENTY-EIGHTH YEAR (A.D. 22)

In March, A.D. 22, Jesus took leave of Zebedee and of Capernaum. He asked for a
small sum of money to defray his expenses to Jerusalem. While working with
Zebedee he had drawn only small sums of money, which each month he would send
to the family at Nazareth. One month Joseph would come down to Capernaum for
the money; the next month Jude would come over to Capernaum, get the money from
Jesus, and take it up to Nazareth. Jude's fishing headquarters was only a few
miles south of Capernaum.

When Jesus took leave of Zebedee's family, he agreed to remain in Jerusalem
until Passover time, and they all promised to be present for that event. They
even arranged to celebrate the Passover supper together. They all sorrowed when
Jesus left them, especially the daughters of Zebedee.

Before leaving Capernaum, Jesus had a long talk with his new-found friend and
close companion, John Zebedee. He told John that he contemplated traveling
extensively until "my hour shall come" and asked John to act in his stead in
the matter of sending some money to the family at Nazareth each month until

                               top of page - 1422

the funds due him should be exhausted. And John made him this promise: "My
Teacher, go about your business, do your work in the world; I will act for you
in this or any other matter, and I will watch over your family even as I would
foster my own mother and care for my own brothers and sisters. I will disburse
your funds which my father holds as you have directed and as they may be
needed, and when your money has been expended, if I do not receive more from
you, and if your mother is in need, then will I share my own earnings with her.
Go your way in peace. I will act in your stead in all these matters."

Therefore, after Jesus had departed for Jerusalem, John consulted with his
father, Zebedee, regarding the money due Jesus, and he was surprised that it
was such a large sum. As Jesus had left the matter so entirely in their hands,
they agreed that it would be the better plan to invest these funds in property
and use the income for assisting the family at Nazareth; and since Zebedee knew
of a little house in Capernaum which carried a mortgage and was for sale, he
directed John to buy this house with Jesus' money and hold the title in trust
for his friend. And John did as his father advised him. For two years the rent
of this house was applied on the mortgage, and this, augmented by a certain
large fund which Jesus presently sent up to John to be used as needed by the
family, almost equaled the amount of this obligation; and Zebedee supplied the
difference, so that John paid up the remainder of the mortgage when it fell
due, thereby securing clear title to this two-room house. In this way Jesus
became the owner of a house in Capernaum, but he had not been told about it.

When the family at Nazareth heard that Jesus had departed from Capernaum, they,
not knowing of this financial arrangement with John, believed the time had come
for them to get along without any further help from Jesus. James remembered his
contract with Jesus and, with the help of his brothers, forthwith assumed full
responsibility for the care of the family.

But let us go back to observe Jesus in Jerusalem. For almost two months he
spent the greater part of his time listening to the temple discussions with
occasional visits to the various schools of the rabbis. Most of the Sabbath
days he spent at Bethany.

Jesus had carried with him to Jerusalem a letter from Salome, Zebedee's wife,
introducing him to the former high priest, Annas, as "one, the same as my own
son." Annas spent much time with him, personally taking him to visit the many
academies of the Jerusalem religious teachers. While Jesus thoroughly inspected
these schools and carefully observed their methods of teaching, he never so
much as asked a single question in public. Although Annas looked upon Jesus as
a great man, he was puzzled as to how to advise him. He recognized the
foolishness of suggesting that he enter any of the schools of Jerusalem as a
student, and yet he well knew Jesus would never be accorded the status of a
regular teacher inasmuch as he had never been trained in these schools.

Presently the time of the Passover drew near, and along with the throngs from
every quarter there arrived at Jerusalem from Capernaum, Zebedee and his entire
family. They all stopped at the spacious home of Annas, where they celebrated
the Passover as one happy family.

Before the end of this Passover week, by apparent chance, Jesus met a wealthy
traveler and his son, a young man about seventeen years of age. These travelers
hailed from India, and being on their way to visit Rome and various other
points on the Mediterranean, they had arranged to arrive in Jerusalem

                               top of page - 1423

during the Passover, hoping to find someone whom they could engage as
interpreter for both and tutor for the son. The father was insistent that Jesus
consent to travel with them. Jesus told him about his family and that it was
hardly fair to go away for almost two years, during which time they might find
themselves in need. Whereupon, this traveler from the Orient proposed to
advance to Jesus the wages of one year so that he could intrust such funds to
his friends for the safeguarding of his family against want. And Jesus agreed
to make the trip.

Jesus turned this large sum over to John the son of Zebedee. And you have been
told how John applied this money toward the liquidation of the mortgage on the
Capernaum property. Jesus took Zebedee fully into his confidence regarding this
Mediterranean journey, but he enjoined him to tell no man, not even his own
flesh and blood, and Zebedee never did disclose his knowledge of Jesus'
whereabouts during this long period of almost two years. Before Jesus' return
from this trip the family at Nazareth had just about given him up as dead. Only
the assurances of Zebedee, who went up to Nazareth with his son John on several
occasions, kept hope alive in Mary's heart.

During this time the Nazareth family got along very well; Jude had considerably
increased his quota and kept up this extra contribution until he was married.
Notwithstanding that they required little assistance, it was the practice of
John Zebedee to take presents each month to Mary and Ruth, as Jesus had
instructed him.

3. THE TWENTY-NINTH YEAR (A.D. 23)

The whole of Jesus' twenty-ninth year was spent finishing up the tour of the
Mediterranean world. The main events, as far as we have permission to reveal
these experiences, constitute the subjects of the narratives which immediately
follow this paper.

Throughout this tour of the Roman world, for many reasons, Jesus was known as
the Damascus scribe. At Corinth and other stops on the return trip he was,
however, known as the Jewish tutor.

This was an eventful period in Jesus' life. While on this journey he made many
contacts with his fellow men, but this experience is a phase of his life which
he never revealed to any member of his family nor to any of the apostles. Jesus
lived out his life in the flesh and departed from this world without anyone
(save Zebedee of Bethsaida) knowing that he had made this extensive trip. Some
of his friends thought he had returned to Damascus; others thought he had gone
to India. His own family inclined to the belief that he was in Alexandria, as
they knew that he had once been invited to go there for the purpose of becoming
an assistant chazan.

When Jesus returned to Palestine, he did nothing to change the opinion of his
family that he had gone from Jerusalem to Alexandria; he permitted them to
continue in the belief that all the time he had been absent from Palestine had
been spent in that city of learning and culture. Only Zebedee the boatbuilder
of Bethsaida knew the facts about these matters, and Zebedee told no one.

In all your efforts to decipher the meaning of Jesus' life on Urantia, you must
be mindful of the motivation of the Michael bestowal. If you would comprehend
the meaning of many of his apparently strange doings, you must discern the
purpose of his sojourn on your world. He was consistently careful not to build

                               top of page - 1424

up an overattractive and attention-consuming personal career. He wanted to make
no unusual or overpowering appeals to his fellow men. He was dedicated to the
work of revealing the heavenly Father to his fellow mortals and at the same
time was consecrated to the sublime task of living his mortal earth life all
the while subject to the will of the same Paradise Father.

It will also always be helpful in understanding Jesus' life on earth if all
mortal students of this divine bestowal will remember that, while he lived this
life of incarnation on Urantia, he lived it for his entire universe. There was
something special and inspiring associated with the life he lived in the flesh
of mortal nature for every single inhabited sphere throughout all the universe
of Nebadon. The same is also true of all those worlds which have become
habitable since the eventful times of his sojourn on Urantia. And it will
likewise be equally true of all worlds which may become inhabited by will
creatures in all the future history of this local universe.

The Son of Man, during the time and through the experiences of this tour of the
Roman world, practically completed his educational contact-training with the
diversified peoples of the world of his day and generation. By the time of his
return to Nazareth, through the medium of this travel-training he had just
about learned how man lived and wrought out his existence on Urantia.

The real purpose of his trip around the Mediterranean basin was to know men. He
came very close to hundreds of humankind on this journey. He met and loved all
manner of men, rich and poor, high and low, black and white, educated and
uneducated, cultured and uncultured, animalistic and spiritual, religious and
irreligious, moral and immoral.

On this Mediterranean journey Jesus made great advances in his human task of
mastering the material and mortal mind, and his indwelling Adjuster made great
progress in the ascension and spiritual conquest of this same human intellect.
By the end of this tour Jesus virtually knew--with all human certainty--that he
was a Son of God, a Creator Son of the Universal Father. The Adjuster more and
more was able to bring up in the mind of the Son of Man shadowy memories of his
Paradise experience in association with his divine Father ere he ever came to
organize and administer this local universe of Nebadon. Thus did the Adjuster,
little by little, bring to Jesus' human consciousness those necessary memories
of his former and divine existence in the various epochs of the well-nigh
eternal past. The last episode of his prehuman experience to be brought forth
by the Adjuster was his farewell conference with Immanuel of Salvington just
before his surrender of conscious personality to embark upon the Urantia
incarnation. And this final memory picture of prehuman existence was made clear
in Jesus' consciousness on the very day of his baptism by John in the Jordan.

4. THE HUMAN JESUS

To the onlooking celestial intelligences of the local universe, this
Mediterranean trip was the most enthralling of all Jesus' earth experiences, at
least of all his career right up to the event of his crucifixion and mortal
death. This was the fascinating period of his personal ministry in contrast
with the soon-following epoch of public ministry. This unique episode was all
the more engrossing because he was at this time still the carpenter of
Nazareth, the boatbuilder of Capernaum, the scribe of Damascus; he was still
the Son of Man. He had not yet

                               top of page - 1425

achieved the complete mastery of his human mind; the Adjuster had not fully
mastered and counterparted the mortal identity. He was still a man among men.

The purely human religious experience--the personal spiritual growth--of the
Son of Man well-nigh reached the apex of attainment during this, the
twenty-ninth year. This experience of spiritual development was a consistently
gradual growth from the moment of the arrival of his Thought Adjuster until the
day of the completion and confirmation of that natural and normal human
relationship between the material mind of man and the mind-endowment of the
spirit--the phenomenon of the making of these two minds one, the experience
which the Son of Man attained in completion and finality, as an incarnated
mortal of the realm, on the day of his baptism in the Jordan.

Throughout these years, while he did not appear to engage in so many seasons of
formal communion with his Father in heaven, he perfected increasingly effective
methods of personal communication with the indwelling spirit presence of the
Paradise Father. He lived a real life, a full life, and a truly normal,
natural, and average life in the flesh. He knows from personal experience the
equivalent of the actuality of the entire sum and substance of the living of
the life of human beings on the material worlds of time and space.

The Son of Man experienced those wide ranges of human emotion which reach from
superb joy to profound sorrow. He was a child of joy and a being of rare good
humor; likewise was he a "man of sorrows and acquainted with grief." In a
spiritual sense, he did live through the mortal life from the bottom to the
top, from the beginning to the end. From a material point of view, he might
appear to have escaped living through both social extremes of human existence,
but intellectually he became wholly familiar with the entire and complete
experience of humankind.

Jesus knows about the thoughts and feelings, the urges and impulses, of the
evolutionary and ascendant mortals of the realms, from birth to death. He has
lived the human life from the beginnings of physical, intellectual, and
spiritual selfhood up through infancy, childhood, youth, and adulthood--even to
the human experience of death. He not only passed through these usual and
familiar human periods of intellectual and spiritual advancement, but he also
fully experienced those higher and more advanced phases of human and Adjuster
reconciliation which so few Urantia mortals ever attain. And thus he
experienced the full life of mortal man, not only as it is lived on your world,
but also as it is lived on all other evolutionary worlds of time and space,
even on the highest and most advanced of all the worlds settled in light and
life.

Although this perfect life which he lived in the likeness of mortal flesh may
not have received the unqualified and universal approval of his fellow mortals,
those who chanced to be his contemporaries on earth, still, the life which
Jesus of Nazareth lived in the flesh and on Urantia did receive full and
unqualified acceptance by the Universal Father as constituting at one and the
same time, and in one and the same personality-life, the fullness of the
revelation of the eternal God to mortal man and the presentation of perfected
human personality to the satisfaction of the Infinite Creator.

And this was his true and supreme purpose. He did not come down to live on
Urantia as the perfect and detailed example for any child or adult, any man or
woman, in that age or any other. True it is, indeed, that in his full, rich,
beautiful, and noble life we may all find much that is exquisitely exemplary,
divinely inspiring, but this is because he lived a true and genuinely human
life. Jesus did

                               top of page - 1426

not live his life on earth in order to set an example for all other human
beings to copy. He lived this life in the flesh by the same mercy ministry that
you all may live your lives on earth; and as he lived his mortal life in his
day and as he was, so did he thereby set the example for all of us thus to live
our lives in our day and as we are. You may not aspire to live his life, but
you can resolve to live your lives even as, and by the same means that, he
lived his. Jesus may not be the technical and detailed example for all the
mortals of all ages on all the realms of this local universe, but he is
everlastingly the inspiration and guide of all Paradise pilgrims from the
worlds of initial ascension up through a universe of universes and on through
Havona to Paradise. Jesus is the new and living way from man to God, from the
partial to the perfect, from the earthly to the heavenly, from time to
eternity.

By the end of the twenty-ninth year Jesus of Nazareth had virtually finished
the living of the life required of mortals as sojourners in the flesh. He came
on earth the fullness of God to be manifest to man; he had now become well-nigh
the perfection of man awaiting the occasion to become manifest to God. And he
did all of this before he was thirty years of age.

                               top of page - 1427

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   Jesus' Early   ³   On The Way To   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Ma...       ³       R...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
