               Urantia Book Paper 137 Tarrying Time In Galilee
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
           To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Paper 137 Tarrying Time In Galilee

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

EARLY on Saturday morning, February 23, A.D. 26, Jesus came down from the hills
to rejoin John's company encamped at Pella. All that day Jesus mingled with the
multitude. He ministered to a lad who had injured himself in a fall and
journeyed to the near-by village of Pella to deliver the boy safely into the
hands of his parents.

1. CHOOSING THE FIRST FOUR APOSTLES

During this Sabbath two of John's leading disciples spent much time with Jesus.
Of all John's followers one named Andrew was the most profoundly impressed with
Jesus; he accompanied him on the trip to Pella with the injured boy. On the way
back to John's rendezvous he asked Jesus many questions, and just before
reaching their destination, the two paused for a short talk, during which
Andrew said: "I have observed you ever since you came to Capernaum, and I
believe you are the new Teacher, and though I do not understand all your
teaching, I have fully made up my mind to follow you; I would sit at your feet
and learn the whole truth about the new kingdom." And Jesus, with hearty
assurance, welcomed Andrew as the first of his apostles, that group of twelve
who were to labor with him in the work of establishing the new kingdom of God
in the hearts of men.

Andrew was a silent observer of, and sincere believer in, John's work, and he
had a very able and enthusiastic brother, named Simon, who was one of John's
foremost disciples. It would not be amiss to say that Simon was one of John's
chief supporters.

Soon after Jesus and Andrew returned to the camp, Andrew sought out his
brother, Simon, and taking him aside, informed him that he had settled in his
own mind that Jesus was the great Teacher, and that he had pledged himself as a
disciple. He went on to say that Jesus had accepted his proffer of service and
suggested that he (Simon) likewise go to Jesus and offer himself for fellowship
in the service of the new kingdom. Said Simon: "Ever since this man came to
work in Zebedee's shop, I have believed he was sent by God, but what about
John? Are we to forsake him? Is this the right thing to do?" Whereupon they
agreed to go at once to consult John. John was saddened by the thought of
losing two of his able advisers and most promising disciples, but he bravely
answered their inquiries, saying: "This is but the beginning; presently will my
work end, and we shall all become his disciples." Then Andrew beckoned to Jesus
to draw aside while he announced that his brother desired to join himself to
the service of the new kingdom. And in welcoming Simon as his second apostle,
Jesus said: "Simon, your enthusiasm is commendable, but it is dangerous to the
work of the kingdom.

                               top of page - 1525

I admonish you to become more thoughtful in your speech. I would change your
name to Peter."

The parents of the injured lad who lived at Pella had besought Jesus to spend
the night with them, to make their house his home, and he had promised. Before
leaving Andrew and his brother, Jesus said, "Early on the morrow we go into
Galilee."

After Jesus had returned to Pella for the night, and while Andrew and Simon
were yet discussing the nature of their service in the establishment of the
forthcoming kingdom, James and John the sons of Zebedee arrived upon the scene,
having just returned from their long and futile searching in the hills for
Jesus. When they heard Simon Peter tell how he and his brother, Andrew, had
become the first accepted counselors of the new kingdom, and that they were to
leave with their new Master on the morrow for Galilee, both James and John were
sad. They had known Jesus for some time, and they loved him. They had searched
for him many days in the hills, and now they returned to learn that others had
been preferred before them. They inquired where Jesus had gone and made haste
to find him.

Jesus was asleep when they reached his abode, but they awakened him, saying:
"How is it that, while we who have so long lived with you are searching in the
hills for you, you prefer others before us and choose Andrew and Simon as your
first associates in the new kingdom?" Jesus answered them, "Be calm in your
hearts and ask yourselves, `who directed that you should search for the Son of
Man when he was about his Father's business?'" After they had recited the
details of their long search in the hills, Jesus further instructed them: "You
should learn to search for the secret of the new kingdom in your hearts and not
in the hills. That which you sought was already present in your souls. You are
indeed my brethren--you needed not to be received by me--already were you of
the kingdom, and you should be of good cheer, making ready also to go with us
tomorrow into Galilee." John then made bold to ask, "But, Master, will James
and I be associates with you in the new kingdom, even as Andrew and Simon?" And
Jesus, laying a hand on the shoulder of each of them, said: "My brethren, you
were already with me in the spirit of the kingdom, even before these others
made request to be received. You, my brethren, have no need to make request for
entrance into the kingdom; you have been with me in the kingdom from the
beginning. Before men, others may take precedence over you, but in my heart did
I also number you in the councils of the kingdom, even before you thought to
make this request of me. And even so might you have been first before men had
you not been absent engaged in a well-intentioned but self-appointed task of
seeking for one who was not lost. In the coming kingdom, be not mindful of
those things which foster your anxiety but rather at all times concern
yourselves only with doing the will of the Father who is in heaven."

James and John received the rebuke in good grace; never more were they envious
of Andrew and Simon. And they made ready, with their two associate apostles, to
depart for Galilee the next morning. From this day on the term apostle was
employed to distinguish the chosen family of Jesus' advisers from the vast
multitude of believing disciples who subsequently followed him.

Late that evening, James, John, Andrew, and Simon held converse with John the
Baptist, and with tearful eye but steady voice the stalwart Judean

                               top of page - 1526

prophet surrendered two of his leading disciples to become the apostles of the
Galilean Prince of the coming kingdom.

2. CHOOSING PHILIP AND NATHANIEL

Sunday morning, February 24, A.D. 26, Jesus took leave of John the Baptist by
the river near Pella, never again to see him in the flesh.

That day, as Jesus and his four disciple-apostles departed for Galilee, there
was a great tumult in the camp of John's followers. The first great division
was about to take place. The day before, John had made his positive
pronouncement to Andrew and Ezra that Jesus was the Deliverer. Andrew decided
to follow Jesus, but Ezra rejected the mild-mannered carpenter of Nazareth,
proclaiming to his associates: "The Prophet Daniel declares that the Son of Man
will come with the clouds of heaven, in power and great glory. This Galilean
carpenter, this Capernaum boatbuilder, cannot be the Deliverer. Can such a gift
of God come out of Nazareth? This Jesus is a relative of John, and through much
kindness of heart has our teacher been deceived. Let us remain aloof from this
false Messiah." When John rebuked Ezra for these utterances, he drew away with
many disciples and hastened south. And this group continued to baptize in
John's name and eventually founded a sect of those who believed in John but
refused to accept Jesus. A remnant of this group persists in Mesopotamia even
to this day.

While this trouble was brewing among John's followers, Jesus and his four
disciple-apostles were well on their way toward Galilee. Before they crossed
the Jordan, to go by way of Nain to Nazareth, Jesus, looking ahead and up the
road, saw one Philip of Bethsaida with a friend coming toward them. Jesus had
known Philip aforetime, and he was also well known to all four of the new
apostles. He was on his way with his friend Nathaniel to visit John at Pella to
learn more about the reported coming of the kingdom of God, and he was
delighted to greet Jesus. Philip had been an admirer of Jesus ever since he
first came to Capernaum. But Nathaniel, who lived at Cana of Galilee, did not
know Jesus. Philip went forward to greet his friends while Nathaniel rested
under the shade of a tree by the roadside.

Peter took Philip to one side and proceeded to explain that they, referring to
himself, Andrew, James, and John, had all become associates of Jesus in the new
kingdom and strongly urged Philip to volunteer for service. Philip was in a
quandary. What should he do? Here, without a moment's warning--on the roadside
near the Jordan--there had come up for immediate decision the most momentous
question of a lifetime. By this time he was in earnest converse with Peter,
Andrew, and John while Jesus was outlining to James the trip through Galilee
and on to Capernaum. Finally, Andrew suggested to Philip, "Why not ask the
Teacher?"

It suddenly dawned on Philip that Jesus was a really great man, possibly the
Messiah, and he decided to abide by Jesus' decision in this matter; and he went
straight to him, asking, "Teacher, shall I go down to John or shall I join my
friends who follow you?" And Jesus answered, "Follow me." Philip was thrilled
with the assurance that he had found the Deliverer.

Philip now motioned to the group to remain where they were while he hurried
back to break the news of his decision to his friend Nathaniel, who still
tarried behind under the mulberry tree, turning over in his mind the many
things which

                               top of page - 1527

he had heard concerning John the Baptist, the coming kingdom, and the expected
Messiah. Philip broke in upon these meditations, exclaiming, "I have found the
Deliverer, him of whom Moses and the prophets wrote and whom John has
proclaimed." Nathaniel, looking up, inquired, "Whence comes this teacher?" And
Philip replied, "He is Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph, the carpenter,
more recently residing at Capernaum." And then, somewhat shocked, Nathaniel
asked, "Can any such good thing come out of Nazareth?" But Philip, taking him
by the arm, said, "Come and see."

Philip led Nathaniel to Jesus, who, looking benignly into the face of the
sincere doubter, said: "Behold a genuine Israelite, in whom there is no deceit.
Follow me." And Nathaniel, turning to Philip, said: "You are right. He is
indeed a master of men. I will also follow, if I am worthy." And Jesus nodded
to Nathaniel, again saying, "Follow me."

Jesus had now assembled one half of his future corps of intimate associates,
five who had for some time known him and one stranger, Nathaniel. Without
further delay they crossed the Jordan and, going by the village of Nain,
reached Nazareth late that evening.

They all remained overnight with Joseph in Jesus' boyhood home. The associates
of Jesus little understood why their new-found teacher was so concerned with
completely destroying every vestige of his writing which remained about the
home in the form of the Ten Commandments and other mottoes and sayings. But
this proceeding, together with the fact that they never saw him subsequently
write--except upon the dust or in the sand--made a deep impression upon their
minds.

3. THE VISIT TO CAPERNAUM

The next day Jesus sent his apostles on to Cana, since all of them were invited
to the wedding of a prominent young woman of that town, while he prepared to
pay a hurried visit to his mother at Capernaum, stopping at Magdala to see his
brother Jude.

Before leaving Nazareth, the new associates of Jesus told Joseph and other
members of Jesus' family about the wonderful events of the then recent past and
gave free expression to their belief that Jesus was the long-expected
deliverer. And these members of Jesus' family talked all this over, and Joseph
said: "Maybe, after all, Mother was right--maybe our strange brother is the
coming king."

Jude was present at Jesus' baptism and, with his brother James, had become a
firm believer in Jesus' mission on earth. Although both James and Jude were
much perplexed as to the nature of their brother's mission, their mother had
resurrected all her early hopes of Jesus as the Messiah, the son of David, and
she encouraged her sons to have faith in their brother as the deliverer of
Israel.

Jesus arrived in Capernaum Monday night, but he did not go to his own home,
where lived James and his mother; he went directly to the home of Zebedee. All
his friends at Capernaum saw a great and pleasant change in him. Once more he
seemed to be comparatively cheerful and more like himself as he was during the
earlier years at Nazareth. For years previous to his baptism and the isolation
periods just before and just after, he had grown increasingly serious and
self-contained. Now he seemed quite like his old self to all of them. There was
about

                               top of page - 1528

him something of majestic import and exalted aspect, but he was once again
lighthearted and joyful.

Mary was thrilled with expectation. She anticipated that the promise of Gabriel
was nearing fulfillment. She expected all Palestine soon to be startled and
stunned by the miraculous revelation of her son as the supernatural king of the
Jews. But to all of the many questions which his mother, James, Jude, and
Zebedee asked, Jesus only smilingly replied: "It is better that I tarry here
for a while; I must do the will of my Father who is in heaven."

On the next day, Tuesday, they all journeyed over to Cana for the wedding of
Naomi, which was to take place on the following day. And in spite of Jesus'
repeated warnings that they tell no man about him "until the Father's hour
shall come," they insisted on quietly spreading the news abroad that they had
found the Deliverer. They each confidently expected that Jesus would inaugurate
his assumption of Messianic authority at the forthcoming wedding at Cana, and
that he would do so with great power and sublime grandeur. They remembered what
had been told them about the phenomena attendant upon his baptism, and they
believed that his future course on earth would be marked by increasing
manifestations of supernatural wonders and miraculous demonstrations.
Accordingly, the entire countryside was preparing to gather together at Cana
for the wedding feast of Naomi and Johab the son of Nathan.

Mary had not been so joyous in years. She journeyed to Cana in the spirit of
the queen mother on the way to witness the coronation of her son. Not since he
was thirteen years old had Jesus' family and friends seen him so carefree and
happy, so thoughtful and understanding of the wishes and desires of his
associates, so touchingly sympathetic. And so they all whispered among
themselves, in small groups, wondering what was going to happen. What would
this strange person do next? How would he usher in the glory of the coming
kingdom? And they were all thrilled with the thought that they were to be
present to see the revelation of the might and power of Israel's God.

4. THE WEDDING AT CANA

By noon on Wednesday almost a thousand guests had arrived in Cana, more than
four times the number bidden to the wedding feast. It was a Jewish custom to
celebrate weddings on Wednesday, and the invitations had been sent abroad for
the wedding one month previously. In the forenoon and early afternoon it
appeared more like a public reception for Jesus than a wedding. Everybody
wanted to greet this near-famous Galilean, and he was most cordial to all,
young and old, Jew and gentile. And everybody rejoiced when Jesus consented to
lead the preliminary wedding procession.

Jesus was now thoroughly self-conscious regarding his human existence, his
divine pre-existence, and the status of his combined, or fused, human and
divine natures. With perfect poise he could at one moment enact the human role
or immediately assume the personality prerogatives of the divine nature.

As the day wore on, Jesus became increasingly conscious that the people were
expecting him to perform some wonder; more especially he recognized that his
family and his six disciple-apostles were looking for him appropriately to
announce his forthcoming kingdom by some startling and supernatural
manifestation.

                               top of page - 1529

Early in the afternoon Mary summoned James, and together they made bold to
approach Jesus to inquire if he would admit them to his confidence to the
extent of informing them at what hour and at what point in connection with the
wedding ceremonies he had planned to manifest himself as the "supernatural
one." No sooner had they spoken of these matters to Jesus than they saw they
had aroused his characteristic indignation. He said only: "If you love me, then
be willing to tarry with me while I wait upon the will of my Father who is in
heaven." But the eloquence of his rebuke lay in the expression of his face.

This move of his mother was a great disappointment to the human Jesus, and he
was much sobered by his reaction to her suggestive proposal that he permit
himself to indulge in some outward demonstration of his divinity. That was one
of the very things he had decided not to do when so recently isolated in the
hills. For several hours Mary was much depressed. She said to James: "I cannot
understand him; what can it all mean? Is there no end to his strange conduct?"
James and Jude tried to comfort their mother, while Jesus withdrew for an
hour's solitude. But he returned to the gathering and was once more
lighthearted and joyous.

The wedding proceeded with a hush of expectancy, but the entire ceremony was
finished and not a move, not a word, from the honored guest. Then it was
whispered about that the carpenter and boatbuilder, announced by John as "the
Deliverer," would show his hand during the evening festivities, perhaps at the
wedding supper. But all expectance of such a demonstration was effectually
removed from the minds of his six disciple-apostles when he called them
together just before the wedding supper and, in great earnestness, said: "Think
not that I have come to this place to work some wonder for the gratification of
the curious or for the conviction of those who doubt. Rather are we here to
wait upon the will of our Father who is in heaven." But when Mary and the
others saw him in consultation with his associates, they were fully persuaded
in their own minds that something extraordinary was about to happen. And they
all sat down to enjoy the wedding supper and the evening of festive good
fellowship.

The father of the bridegroom had provided plenty of wine for all the guests
bidden to the marriage feast, but how was he to know that the marriage of his
son was to become an event so closely associated with the expected
manifestation of Jesus as the Messianic deliverer? He was delighted to have the
honor of numbering the celebrated Galilean among his guests, but before the
wedding supper was over, the servants brought him the disconcerting news that
the wine was running short. By the time the formal supper had ended and the
guests were strolling about in the garden, the mother of the bridegroom
confided to Mary that the supply of wine was exhausted. And Mary confidently
said: "Have no worry--I will speak to my son. He will help us." And thus did
she presume to speak, notwithstanding the rebuke of but a few hours before.

Throughout a period of many years, Mary had always turned to Jesus for help in
every crisis of their home life at Nazareth so that it was only natural for her
to think of him at this time. But this ambitious mother had still other motives
for appealing to her eldest son on this occasion. As Jesus was standing alone
in a corner of the garden, his mother approached him, saying, "My son, they
have no wine." And Jesus answered, "My good woman, what have I to do with
that?" Said Mary, "But I believe your hour has come; cannot you help us?" Jesus
replied: "Again I declare that I have not come to do things in this wise. Why
do

                               top of page - 1530

you trouble me again with these matters?" And then, breaking down in tears,
Mary entreated him, "But, my son, I promised them that you would help us; won't
you please do something for me?" And then spoke Jesus: "Woman, what have you to
do with making such promises? See that you do it not again. We must in all
things wait upon the will of the Father in heaven."

Mary the mother of Jesus was crushed; she was stunned! As she stood there
before him motionless, with the tears streaming down her face, the human heart
of Jesus was overcome with compassion for the woman who had borne him in the
flesh; and bending forward, he laid his hand tenderly upon her head, saying:
"Now, now, Mother Mary, grieve not over my apparently hard sayings, for have I
not many times told you that I have come only to do the will of my heavenly
Father? Most gladly would I do what you ask of me if it were a part of the
Father's will--" and Jesus stopped short, he hesitated. Mary seemed to sense
that something was happening. Leaping up, she threw her arms around Jesus'
neck, kissed him, and rushed off to the servants' quarters, saying, "Whatever
my son says, that do." But Jesus said nothing. He now realized that he had
already said--or rather desirefully thought--too much.

Mary was dancing with glee. She did not know how the wine would be produced,
but she confidently believed that she had finally persuaded her first-born son
to assert his authority, to dare to step forth and claim his position and
exhibit his Messianic power. And, because of the presence and association of
certain universe powers and personalities, of which all those present were
wholly ignorant, she was not to be disappointed. The wine Mary desired and
which Jesus, the God-man, humanly and sympathetically wished for, was
forthcoming.

Near at hand stood six waterpots of stone, filled with water, holding about
twenty gallons apiece. This water was intended for subsequent use in the final
purification ceremonies of the wedding celebration. The commotion of the
servants about these huge stone vessels, under the busy direction of his
mother, attracted Jesus' attention, and going over, he observed that they were
drawing wine out of them by the pitcherful.

It was gradually dawning upon Jesus what had happened. Of all persons present
at the marriage feast of Cana, Jesus was the most surprised. Others had
expected him to work a wonder, but that was just what he had purposed not to
do. And then the Son of Man recalled the admonition of his Personalized Thought
Adjuster in the hills. He recounted how the Adjuster had warned him about the
inability of any power or personality to deprive him of the creator prerogative
of independence of time. On this occasion power transformers, midwayers, and
all other required personalities were assembled near the water and other
necessary elements, and in the face of the expressed wish of the Universe
Creator Sovereign, there was no escaping the instantaneous appearance of wine.
And this occurrence was made doubly certain since the Personalized Adjuster had
signified that the execution of the Son's desire was in no way a contravention
of the Father's will.

But this was in no sense a miracle. No law of nature was modified, abrogated,
or even transcended. Nothing happened but the abrogation of time in association
with the celestial assembly of the chemical elements requisite for the
elaboration of the wine. At Cana on this occasion the agents of the Creator
made wine just as they do by the ordinary natural processes except that they
did it independently of time and with the intervention of superhuman agencies
in the matter of the space assembly of the necessary chemical ingredients.

                               top of page - 1531

Furthermore it was evident that the enactment of this so-called miracle was not
contrary to the will of the Paradise Father, else it would not have transpired,
since Jesus had already subjected himself in all things to the Father's will.

When the servants drew this new wine and carried it to the best man, the "ruler
of the feast," and when he had tasted it, he called to the bridegroom, saying:
"It is the custom to set out first the good wine and, when the guests have well
drunk, to bring forth the inferior fruit of the vine; but you have kept the
best of the wine until the last of the feast."

Mary and the disciples of Jesus were greatly rejoiced at the supposed miracle
which they thought Jesus had intentionally performed, but Jesus withdrew to a
sheltered nook of the garden and engaged in serious thought for a few brief
moments. He finally decided that the episode was beyond his personal control
under the circumstances and, not being adverse to his Father's will, was
inevitable. When he returned to the people, they regarded him with awe; they
all believed in him as the Messiah. But Jesus was sorely perplexed, knowing
that they believed in him only because of the unusual occurrence which they had
just inadvertently beheld. Again Jesus retired for a season to the housetop
that he might think it all over.

Jesus now fully comprehended that he must constantly be on guard lest his
indulgence of sympathy and pity become responsible for repeated episodes of
this sort. Nevertheless, many similar events occurred before the Son of Man
took final leave of his mortal life in the flesh.

5. BACK IN CAPERNAUM

Though many of the guests remained for the full week of wedding festivities,
Jesus, with his newly chosen disciple-apostles--James, John, Andrew, Peter,
Philip, and Nathaniel--departed very early the next morning for Capernaum,
going away without taking leave of anyone. Jesus' family and all his friends in
Cana were much distressed because he so suddenly left them, and Jude, Jesus'
youngest brother, set out in search of him. Jesus and his apostles went
directly to the home of Zebedee at Bethsaida. On this journey Jesus talked over
many things of importance to the coming kingdom with his newly chosen
associates and especially warned them to make no mention of the turning of the
water into wine. He also advised them to avoid the cities of Sepphoris and
Tiberias in their future work.

After supper that evening, in this home of Zebedee and Salome, there was held
one of the most important conferences of all Jesus' earthly career. Only the
six apostles were present at this meeting; Jude arrived as they were about to
separate. These six chosen men had journeyed from Cana to Bethsaida with Jesus,
walking, as it were, on air. They were alive with expectancy and thrilled with
the thought of having been selected as close associates of the Son of Man. But
when Jesus set out to make clear to them who he was and what was to be his
mission on earth and how it might possibly end, they were stunned. They could
not grasp what he was telling them. They were speechless; even Peter was
crushed beyond expression. Only the deep-thinking Andrew dared to make reply to
Jesus' words of counsel. When Jesus perceived that they did not comprehend his
message, when he saw that their ideas of the Jewish Messiah were so completely
crystallized, he sent them to their rest while he walked and talked with his

                               top of page - 1532

brother Jude. And before Jude took leave of Jesus, he said with much feeling:
"My father-brother, I never have understood you. I do not know of a certainty
whether you are what my mother has taught us, and I do not fully comprehend the
coming kingdom, but I do know you are a mighty man of God. I heard the voice at
the Jordan, and I am a believer in you, no matter who you are." And when he had
spoken, he departed, going to his own home at Magdala.

That night Jesus did not sleep. Donning his evening wraps, he sat out on the
lake shore thinking, thinking until the dawn of the next day. In the long hours
of that night of meditation Jesus came clearly to comprehend that he never
would be able to make his followers see him in any other light than as the
long-expected Messiah. At last he recognized that there was no way to launch
his message of the kingdom except as the fulfillment of John's prediction and
as the one for whom the Jews were looking. After all, though he was not the
Davidic type of Messiah, he was truly the fulfillment of the prophetic
utterances of the more spiritually minded of the olden seers. Never again did
he wholly deny that he was the Messiah. He decided to leave the final
untangling of this complicated situation to the outworking of the Father's
will.

The next morning Jesus joined his friends at breakfast, but they were a
cheerless group. He visited with them and at the end of the meal gathered them
about him, saying: "It is my Father's will that we tarry hereabouts for a
season. You have heard John say that he came to prepare the way for the
kingdom; therefore it behooves us to await the completion of John's preaching.
When the forerunner of the Son of Man shall have finished his work, we will
begin the proclamation of the good tidings of the kingdom." He directed his
apostles to return to their nets while he made ready to go with Zebedee to the
boatshop, promising to see them the next day at the synagogue, where he was to
speak, and appointing a conference with them that Sabbath afternoon.

6. THE EVENTS OF A SABBATH DAY

Jesus' first public appearance following his baptism was in the Capernaum
synagogue on Sabbath, March 2, A.D. 26. The synagogue was crowded to
overflowing. The story of the baptism in the Jordan was now augmented by the
fresh news from Cana about the water and the wine. Jesus gave seats of honor to
his six apostles, and seated with them were his brothers in the flesh James and
Jude. His mother, having returned to Capernaum with James the evening before,
was also present, being seated in the women's section of the synagogue. The
entire audience was on edge; they expected to behold some extraordinary
manifestation of supernatural power which would be a fitting testimony to the
nature and authority of him who was that day to speak to them. But they were
destined to disappointment.

When Jesus stood up, the ruler of the synagogue handed him the Scripture roll,
and he read from the Prophet Isaiah: "Thus says the Lord: `The heaven is my
throne, and the earth is my footstool. Where is the house that you built for
me? And where is the place of my dwelling? All these things have my hands
made,' says the Lord. `But to this man will I look, even to him who is poor and
of a contrite spirit, and who trembles at my word.' Hear the word of the Lord,
you who tremble and fear: `Your brethren hated you and cast you out for my
name's sake.' But let the Lord be glorified. He shall appear to you in joy, and
all others shall be ashamed. A voice from the city, a voice from the temple, a
voice from

                               top of page - 1533

the Lord says: `Before she travailed, she brought forth; before her pain came,
she was delivered of a man child.' Who has heard such a thing? Shall the earth
be made to bring forth in one day? Or can a nation be born at once? But thus
says the Lord: `Behold I will extend peace like a river, and the glory of even
the gentiles shall be like a flowing stream. As one whom his mother comforts,
so will I comfort you. And you shall be comforted even in Jerusalem. And when
you see these things, your heart shall rejoice.'"

When he had finished this reading, Jesus handed the roll back to its keeper.
Before sitting down, he simply said: "Be patient and you shall see the glory of
God; even so shall it be with all those who tarry with me and thus learn to do
the will of my Father who is in heaven." And the people went to their homes,
wondering what was the meaning of all this.

That afternoon Jesus and his apostles, with James and Jude, entered a boat and
pulled down the shore a little way, where they anchored while he talked to them
about the coming kingdom. And they understood more than they had on Thursday
night.

Jesus instructed them to take up their regular duties until "the hour of the
kingdom comes." And to encourage them, he set an example by going back
regularly to work in the boatshop. In explaining that they should spend three
hours every evening in study and preparation for their future work, Jesus
further said: "We will all remain hereabout until the Father bids me call you.
Each of you must now return to his accustomed work just as if nothing had
happened. Tell no man about me and remember that my kingdom is not to come with
noise and glamor, but rather must it come through the great change which my
Father will have wrought in your hearts and in the hearts of those who shall be
called to join you in the councils of the kingdom. You are now my friends; I
trust you and I love you; you are soon to become my personal associates. Be
patient, be gentle. Be ever obedient to the Father's will. Make yourselves
ready for the call of the kingdom. While you will experience great joy in the
service of my Father, you should also be prepared for trouble, for I warn you
that it will be only through much tribulation that many will enter the kingdom.
But those who have found the kingdom, their joy will be full, and they shall be
called the blest of all the earth. But do not entertain false hope; the world
will stumble at my words. Even you, my friends, do not fully perceive what I am
unfolding to your confused minds. Make no mistake; we go forth to labor for a
generation of sign seekers. They will demand wonder-working as the proof that I
am sent by my Father, and they will be slow to recognize in the revelation of
my Father's love the credentials of my mission."

That evening, when they had returned to the land, before they went their way,
Jesus, standing by the water's edge, prayed: "My Father, I thank you for these
little ones who, in spite of their doubts, even now believe. And for their
sakes have I set myself apart to do your will. And now may they learn to be
one, even as we are one."

7. FOUR MONTHS OF TRAINING

For four long months--March, April, May, and June--this tarrying time
continued; Jesus held over one hundred long and earnest, though cheerful and
joyous, sessions with these six associates and his own brother James. Owing to

                               top of page - 1534

sickness in his family, Jude seldom was able to attend these classes. James,
Jesus' brother, did not lose faith in him, but during these months of delay and
inaction Mary nearly despaired of her son. Her faith, raised to such heights at
Cana, now sank to new low levels. She could only fall back on her so
oft-repeated exclamation: "I cannot understand him. I cannot figure out what it
all means." But James's wife did much to bolster Mary's courage.

Throughout these four months these seven believers, one his own brother in the
flesh, were getting acquainted with Jesus; they were getting used to the idea
of living with this God-man. Though they called him Rabbi, they were learning
not to be afraid of him. Jesus possessed that matchless grace of personality
which enabled him so to live among them that they were not dismayed by his
divinity. They found it really easy to be "friends with God," God incarnate in
the likeness of mortal flesh. This time of waiting severely tested the entire
group of believers. Nothing, absolutely nothing, miraculous happened. Day by
day they went about their ordinary work, while night after night they sat at
Jesus' feet. And they were held together by his matchless personality and by
the gracious words which he spoke to them evening upon evening.

This period of waiting and teaching was especially hard on Simon Peter. He
repeatedly sought to persuade Jesus to launch forth with the preaching of the
kingdom in Galilee while John continued to preach in Judea. But Jesus' reply to
Peter ever was: "Be patient, Simon. Make progress. We shall be none too ready
when the Father calls." And Andrew would calm Peter now and then with his more
seasoned and philosophic counsel. Andrew was tremendously impressed with the
human naturalness of Jesus. He never grew weary of contemplating how one who
could live so near God could be so friendly and considerate of men.

Throughout this entire period Jesus spoke in the synagogue but twice. By the
end of these many weeks of waiting the reports about his baptism and the wine
of Cana had begun to quiet down. And Jesus saw to it that no more apparent
miracles happened during this time. But even though they lived so quietly at
Bethsaida, reports of the strange doings of Jesus had been carried to Herod
Antipas, who in turn sent spies to ascertain what he was about. But Herod was
more concerned about the preaching of John. He decided not to molest Jesus,
whose work continued along so quietly at Capernaum.

In this time of waiting Jesus endeavored to teach his associates what their
attitude should be toward the various religious groups and the political
parties of Palestine. Jesus' words always were, "We are seeking to win all of
them, but we are not of any of them."

The scribes and rabbis, taken together, were called Pharisees. They referred to
themselves as the "associates." In many ways they were the progressive group
among the Jews, having adopted many teachings not clearly found in the Hebrew
scriptures, such as belief in the resurrection of the dead, a doctrine only
mentioned by a later prophet, Daniel.

The Sadducees consisted of the priesthood and certain wealthy Jews. They were
not such sticklers for the details of law enforcement. The Pharisees and
Sadducees were really religious parties, rather than sects.

The Essenes were a true religious sect, originating during the Maccabean
revolt, whose requirements were in some respects more exacting than those of
the Pharisees. They had adopted many Persian beliefs and practices, lived as a

                               top of page - 1535

brotherhood in monasteries, refrained from marriage, and had all things in
common. They specialized in teachings about angels.

The Zealots were a group of intense Jewish patriots. They advocated that any
and all methods were justified in the struggle to escape the bondage of the
Roman yoke.

The Herodians were a purely political party that advocated emancipation from
the direct Roman rule by a restoration of the Herodian dynasty.

In the very midst of Palestine there lived the Samaritans, with whom "the Jews
had no dealings," notwithstanding that they held many views similar to the
Jewish teachings.

All of these parties and sects, including the smaller Nazarite brotherhood,
believed in the sometime coming of the Messiah. They all looked for a national
deliverer. But Jesus was very positive in making it clear that he and his
disciples would not become allied to any of these schools of thought or
practice. The Son of Man was to be neither a Nazarite nor an Essene.

While Jesus later directed that the apostles should go forth, as John had,
preaching the gospel and instructing believers, he laid emphasis on the
proclamation of the "good tidings of the kingdom of heaven." He unfailingly
impressed upon his associates that they must "show forth love, compassion, and
sympathy." He early taught his followers that the kingdom of heaven was a
spiritual experience having to do with the enthronement of God in the hearts of
men.

As they thus tarried before embarking on their active public preaching, Jesus
and the seven spent two evenings each week at the synagogue in the study of the
Hebrew scriptures. In later years after seasons of intense public work, the
apostles looked back upon these four months as the most precious and profitable
of all their association with the Master. Jesus taught these men all they could
assimilate. He did not make the mistake of overteaching them. He did not
precipitate confusion by the presentation of truth too far beyond their
capacity to comprehend.

8. SERMON ON THE KINGDOM

On Sabbath, June 22, shortly before they went out on their first preaching tour
and about ten days after John's imprisonment, Jesus occupied the synagogue
pulpit for the second time since bringing his apostles to Capernaum.

A few days before the preaching of this sermon on "The Kingdom," as Jesus was
at work in the boatshop, Peter brought him the news of John's arrest. Jesus
laid down his tools once more, removed his apron, and said to Peter: "The
Father's hour has come. Let us make ready to proclaim the gospel of the
kingdom."

Jesus did his last work at the carpenter bench on this Tuesday, June 18, A.D.
26. Peter rushed out of the shop and by midafternoon had rounded up all of his
associates, and leaving them in a grove by the shore, he went in quest of
Jesus. But he could not find him, for the Master had gone to a different grove
to pray. And they did not see him until late that evening when he returned to
Zebedee's house and asked for food. The next day he sent his brother James to
ask for the privilege of speaking in the synagogue the coming Sabbath day. And
the ruler of the synagogue was much pleased that Jesus was again willing to
conduct the service.

                               top of page - 1536

Before Jesus preached this memorable sermon on the kingdom of God, the first
pretentious effort of his public career, he read from the Scriptures these
passages: "You shall be to me a kingdom of priests, a holy people. Yahweh is
our judge, Yahweh is our lawgiver, Yahweh is our king; he will save us. Yahweh
is my king and my God. He is a great king over all the earth. Loving-kindness
is upon Israel in this kingdom. Blessed be the glory of the Lord for he is our
King."

When he had finished reading, Jesus said:

"I have come to proclaim the establishment of the Father's kingdom. And this
kingdom shall include the worshiping souls of Jew and gentile, rich and poor,
free and bond, for my Father is no respecter of persons; his love and his mercy
are over all.

"The Father in heaven sends his spirit to indwell the minds of men, and when I
shall have finished my work on earth, likewise shall the Spirit of Truth be
poured out upon all flesh. And the spirit of my Father and the Spirit of Truth
shall establish you in the coming kingdom of spiritual understanding and divine
righteousness. My kingdom is not of this world. The Son of Man will not lead
forth armies in battle for the establishment of a throne of power or a kingdom
of worldly glory. When my kingdom shall have come, you shall know the Son of
Man as the Prince of Peace, the revelation of the everlasting Father. The
children of this world fight for the establishment and enlargement of the
kingdoms of this world, but my disciples shall enter the kingdom of heaven by
their moral decisions and by their spirit victories; and when they once enter
therein, they shall find joy, righteousness, and eternal life.

"Those who first seek to enter the kingdom, thus beginning to strive for a
nobility of character like that of my Father, shall presently possess all else
that is needful. But I say to you in all sincerity: Unless you seek entrance
into the kingdom with the faith and trusting dependence of a little child, you
shall in no wise gain admission.

"Be not deceived by those who come saying here is the kingdom or there is the
kingdom, for my Father's kingdom concerns not things visible and material. And
this kingdom is even now among you, for where the spirit of God teaches and
leads the soul of man, there in reality is the kingdom of heaven. And this
kingdom of God is righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit.

"John did indeed baptize you in token of repentance and for the remission of
your sins, but when you enter the heavenly kingdom, you will be baptized with
the Holy Spirit.

"In my Father's kingdom there shall be neither Jew nor gentile, only those who
seek perfection through service, for I declare that he who would be great in my
Father's kingdom must first become server of all. If you are willing to serve
your fellows, you shall sit down with me in my kingdom, even as, by serving in
the similitude of the creature, I shall presently sit down with my Father in
his kingdom.

"This new kingdom is like a seed growing in the good soil of a field. It does
not attain full fruit quickly. There is an interval of time between the
establishment of the kingdom in the soul of man and that hour when the kingdom
ripens into the full fruit of everlasting righteousness and eternal salvation.

"And this kingdom which I declare to you is not a reign of power and plenty.
The kingdom of heaven is not a matter of meat and drink but rather a life of
progressive righteousness and increasing joy in the perfecting service of my

                               top of page - 1537

Father who is in heaven. For has not the Father said of his children of the
world, `It is my will that they should eventually be perfect, even as I am
perfect.'

"I have come to preach the glad tidings of the kingdom. I have not come to add
to the heavy burdens of those who would enter this kingdom. I proclaim the new
and better way, and those who are able to enter the coming kingdom shall enjoy
the divine rest. And whatever it shall cost you in the things of the world, no
matter what price you may pay to enter the kingdom of heaven, you shall receive
manyfold more of joy and spiritual progress in this world, and in the age to
come eternal life.

"Entrance into the Father's kingdom waits not upon marching armies, upon
overturned kingdoms of this world, nor upon the breaking of captive yokes. The
kingdom of heaven is at hand, and all who enter therein shall find abundant
liberty and joyous salvation.

"This kingdom is an everlasting dominion. Those who enter the kingdom shall
ascend to my Father; they will certainly attain the right hand of his glory in
Paradise. And all who enter the kingdom of heaven shall become the sons of God,
and in the age to come so shall they ascend to the Father. And I have not come
to call the would-be righteous but sinners and all who hunger and thirst for
the righteousness of divine perfection.

"John came preaching repentance to prepare you for the kingdom; now have I come
proclaiming faith, the gift of God, as the price of entrance into the kingdom
of heaven. If you would but believe that my Father loves you with an infinite
love, then you are in the kingdom of God."

When he had thus spoken, he sat down. All who heard him were astonished at his
words. His disciples marveled. But the people were not prepared to receive the
good news from the lips of this God-man. About one third who heard him believed
the message even though they could not fully comprehend it; about one third
prepared in their hearts to reject such a purely spiritual concept of the
expected kingdom, while the remaining one third could not grasp his teaching,
many truly believing that he "was beside himself."

                               top of page - 1538

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus


        //                                                                
   Baptism And       Training The       Urantia Book     Search  SiteMap! 
      The...             Ki...              PA...                         

//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),             
                            http://www.spiritweb.org                   
                       Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>             
                                                                       
                  ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.        
             DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,    
                                    AUSTRALIA                          
                                                                       

