          Urantia Book Paper 138 Training The Kingdom's Messengers
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
           To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  Paper 138 Training The Kingdom's Messengers

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

AFTER preaching the sermon on "The Kingdom," Jesus called the six apostles
together that afternoon and began to disclose his plans for visiting the cities
around and about the Sea of Galilee. His brothers James and Jude were very much
hurt because they were not called to this conference. Up to this time they had
regarded themselves as belonging to Jesus' inner circle of associates. But
Jesus planned to have no close relatives as members of this corps of apostolic
directors of the kingdom. This failure to include James and Jude among the
chosen few, together with his apparent aloofness from his mother ever since the
experience at Cana, was the starting point of an ever-widening gulf between
Jesus and his family. This situation continued throughout his public
ministry--they very nearly rejected him--and these differences were not fully
removed until after his death and resurrection. His mother constantly wavered
between attitudes of fluctuating faith and hope, and increasing emotions of
disappointment, humiliation, and despair. Only Ruth, the youngest, remained
unswervingly loyal to her father-brother.

Until after the resurrection, Jesus' entire family had very little to do with
his ministry. If a prophet is not without honor save in his own country, he is
not without understanding appreciation save in his own family.

1. FINAL INSTRUCTIONS

The next day, Sunday, June 23, A.D. 26, Jesus imparted his final instructions
to the six. He directed them to go forth, two and two, to teach the glad
tidings of the kingdom. He forbade them to baptize and advised against public
preaching. He went on to explain that later he would permit them to preach in
public, but that for a season, and for many reasons, he desired them to acquire
practical experience in dealing personally with their fellow men. Jesus
purposed to make their first tour entirely one of personal work. Although this
announcement was something of a disappointment to the apostles, still they saw,
at least in part, Jesus' reason for thus beginning the proclamation of the
kingdom, and they started out in good heart and with confident enthusiasm. He
sent them forth by twos, James and John going to Kheresa, Andrew and Peter to
Capernaum, while Philip and Nathaniel went to Tarichea.

Before they began this first two weeks of service, Jesus announced to them that
he desired to ordain twelve apostles to continue the work of the kingdom after
his departure and authorized each of them to choose one man from among his
early converts for membership in the projected corps of apostles. John spoke
up, asking: "But, Master, will these six men come into our midst and share all

                               top of page - 1539

things equally with us who have been with you since the Jordan and have heard
all your teaching in preparation for this, our first labor for the kingdom?"
And Jesus replied: "Yes, John, the men you choose shall become one with us, and
you will teach them all that pertains to the kingdom, even as I have taught
you." After thus speaking, Jesus left them.

The six did not separate to go to their work until they had exchanged many
words in discussion of Jesus' instruction that each of them should choose a new
apostle. Andrew's counsel finally prevailed, and they went forth to their
labors. In substance Andrew said: "The Master is right; we are too few to
encompass this work. There is need for more teachers, and the Master has
manifested great confidence in us inasmuch as he has intrusted us with the
choosing of these six new apostles." This morning, as they separated to go to
their work, there was a bit of concealed depression in each heart. They knew
they were going to miss Jesus, and besides their fear and timidity, this was
not the way they had pictured the kingdom of heaven being inaugurated.

It had been arranged that the six were to labor for two weeks, after which they
were to return to the home of Zebedee for a conference. Meantime Jesus went
over to Nazareth to visit with Joseph and Simon and other members of his family
living in that vicinity. Jesus did everything humanly possible, consistent with
his dedication to the doing of his Father's will, to retain the confidence and
affection of his family. In this matter he did his full duty and more.

While the apostles were out on this mission, Jesus thought much about John, now
in prison. It was a great temptation to use his potential powers to release
him, but once more he resigned himself to "wait upon the Father's will."

2. CHOOSING THE SIX

This first missionary tour of the six was eminently successful. They all
discovered the great value of direct and personal contact with men. They
returned to Jesus more fully realizing that, after all, religion is purely and
wholly a matter of personal experience. They began to sense how hungry were the
common people to hear words of religious comfort and spiritual good cheer. When
they assembled about Jesus, they all wanted to talk at once, but Andrew assumed
charge, and as he called upon them one by one, they made their formal reports
to the Master and presented their nominations for the six new apostles.

Jesus, after each man had presented his selection for the new apostleships,
asked all the others to vote upon the nomination; thus all six of the new
apostles were formally accepted by all of the older six. Then Jesus announced
that they would all visit these candidates and give them the call to service.

The newly selected apostles were:

1. Matthew Levi, the customs collector of Capernaum, who had his office just to
the east of the city, near the borders of Batanea. He was selected by Andrew.

2. Thomas Didymus, a fisherman of Tarichea and onetime carpenter and stone
mason of Gadara. He was selected by Philip.

3. James Alpheus, a fisherman and farmer of Kheresa, was selected by James
Zebedee.

4. Judas Alpheus, the twin brother of James Alpheus, also a fisherman, was
selected by John Zebedee.

                               top of page - 1540

5. Simon Zelotes was a high officer in the patriotic organization of the
Zealots, a position which he gave up to join Jesus' apostles. Before joining
the Zealots, Simon had been a merchant. He was selected by Peter.

6. Judas Iscariot was an only son of wealthy Jewish parents living in Jericho.
He had become attached to John the Baptist, and his Sadducee parents had
disowned him. He was looking for employment in these regions when Jesus'
apostles found him, and chiefly because of his experience with finances,
Nathaniel invited him to join their ranks. Judas Iscariot was the only Judean
among the twelve apostles.

Jesus spent a full day with the six, answering their questions and listening to
the details of their reports, for they had many interesting and profitable
experiences to relate. They now saw the wisdom of the Master's plan of sending
them out to labor in a quiet and personal manner before the launching of their
more pretentious public efforts.

3. THE CALL OF MATTHEW AND SIMON

The next day Jesus and the six went to call upon Matthew, the customs
collector. Matthew was awaiting them, having balanced his books and made ready
to turn the affairs of his office over to his brother. As they approached the
toll house, Andrew stepped forward with Jesus, who, looking into Matthew's
face, said, "Follow me." And he arose and went to his house with Jesus and the
apostles.

Matthew told Jesus of the banquet he had arranged for that evening, at least
that he wished to give such a dinner to his family and friends if Jesus would
approve and consent to be the guest of honor. And Jesus nodded his consent.
Peter then took Matthew aside and explained that he had invited one Simon to
join the apostles and secured his consent that Simon be also bidden to this
feast.

After a noontide luncheon at Matthew's house they all went with Peter to call
upon Simon the Zealot, whom they found at his old place of business, which was
now being conducted by his nephew. When Peter led Jesus up to Simon, the Master
greeted the fiery patriot and only said, "Follow me."

They all returned to Matthew's home, where they talked much about politics and
religion until the hour of the evening meal. The Levi family had long been
engaged in business and tax gathering; therefore many of the guests bidden to
this banquet by Matthew would have been denominated "publicans and sinners" by
the Pharisees.

In those days, when a reception-banquet of this sort was tendered a prominent
individual, it was the custom for all interested persons to linger about the
banquet room to observe the guests at meat and to listen to the conversation
and speeches of the men of honor. Accordingly, most of the Capernaum Pharisees
were present on this occasion to observe Jesus' conduct at this unusual social
gathering.

As the dinner progressed, the joy of the diners mounted to heights of good
cheer, and everybody was having such a splendid time that the onlooking
Pharisees began, in their hearts, to criticize Jesus for his participation in
such a lighthearted and carefree affair. Later in the evening, when they were
making speeches, one of the more malignant of the Pharisees went so far as to
criticize

                               top of page - 1541

Jesus' conduct to Peter, saying: "How dare you to teach that this man is
righteous when he eats with publicans and sinners and thus lends his presence
to such scenes of careless pleasure making." Peter whispered this criticism to
Jesus before he spoke the parting blessing upon those assembled. When Jesus
began to speak, he said: "In coming here tonight to welcome Matthew and Simon
to our fellowship, I am glad to witness your lightheartedness and social good
cheer, but you should rejoice still more because many of you will find entrance
into the coming kingdom of the spirit, wherein you shall more abundantly enjoy
the good things of the kingdom of heaven. And to you who stand about
criticizing me in your hearts because I have come here to make merry with these
friends, let me say that I have come to proclaim joy to the socially
downtrodden and spiritual liberty to the moral captives. Need I remind you that
they who are whole need not a physician, but rather those who are sick? I have
come, not to call the righteous, but sinners."

And truly this was a strange sight in all Jewry: to see a man of righteous
character and noble sentiments mingling freely and joyously with the common
people, even with an irreligious and pleasure-seeking throng of publicans and
reputed sinners. Simon Zelotes desired to make a speech at this gathering in
Matthew's house, but Andrew, knowing that Jesus did not want the coming kingdom
to become confused with the Zealots' movement, prevailed upon him to refrain
from making any public remarks.

Jesus and the apostles remained that night in Matthew's house, and as the
people went to their homes, they spoke of but one thing: the goodness and
friendliness of Jesus.

4. THE CALL OF THE TWINS

On the morrow all nine of them went by boat over to Kheresa to execute the
formal calling of the next two apostles, James and Judas the twin sons of
Alpheus, the nominees of James and John Zebedee. The fisherman twins were
expecting Jesus and his apostles and were therefore awaiting them on the shore.
James Zebedee presented the Master to the Kheresa fishermen, and Jesus, gazing
on them, nodded and said, "Follow me."

That afternoon, which they spent together, Jesus fully instructed them
concerning attendance upon festive gatherings, concluding his remarks by
saying: "All men are my brothers. My Father in heaven does not despise any
creature of our making. The kingdom of heaven is open to all men and women. No
man may close the door of mercy in the face of any hungry soul who may seek to
gain an entrance thereto. We will sit at meat with all who desire to hear of
the kingdom. As our Father in heaven looks down upon men, they are all alike.
Refuse not therefore to break bread with Pharisee or sinner, Sadducee or
publican, Roman or Jew, rich or poor, free or bond. The door of the kingdom is
wide open for all who desire to know the truth and to find God."

That night at a simple supper at the Alpheus home, the twin brothers were
received into the apostolic family. Later in the evening Jesus gave his
apostles their first lesson dealing with the origin, nature, and destiny of
unclean spirits, but they could not comprehend the import of what he told them.
They found it very easy to love and admire Jesus but very difficult to
understand many of his teachings.

                               top of page - 1542

After a night of rest the entire party, now numbering eleven, went by boat over
to Tarichea.

5. THE CALL OF THOMAS AND JUDAS

Thomas the fisherman and Judas the wanderer met Jesus and the apostles at the
fisher-boat landing at Tarichea, and Thomas led the party to his near-by home.
Philip now presented Thomas as his nominee for apostleship and Nathaniel
presented Judas Iscariot, the Judean, for similar honors. Jesus looked upon
Thomas and said: "Thomas, you lack faith; nevertheless, I receive you. Follow
me." To Judas Iscariot the Master said: "Judas, we are all of one flesh, and as
I receive you into our midst, I pray that you will always be loyal to your
Galilean brethren. Follow me."

When they had refreshed themselves, Jesus took the twelve apart for a season to
pray with them and to instruct them in the nature and work of the Holy Spirit,
but again did they largely fail to comprehend the meaning of those wonderful
truths which he endeavored to teach them. One would grasp one point and one
would comprehend another, but none of them could encompass the whole of his
teaching. Always would they make the mistake of trying to fit Jesus' new gospel
into their old forms of religious belief. They could not grasp the idea that
Jesus had come to proclaim a new gospel of salvation and to establish a new way
of finding God; they did not perceive that he was a new revelation of the
Father in heaven.

The next day Jesus left his twelve apostles quite alone; he wanted them to
become acquainted and desired that they be alone to talk over what he had
taught them. The Master returned for the evening meal, and during the
after-supper hours he talked to them about the ministry of seraphim, and some
of the apostles comprehended his teaching. They rested for a night and the next
day departed by boat for Capernaum.

Zebedee and Salome had gone to live with their son David so that their large
home could be turned over to Jesus and his twelve apostles. Here Jesus spent a
quiet Sabbath with his chosen messengers; he carefully outlined the plans for
proclaiming the kingdom and fully explained the importance of avoiding any
clash with the civil authorities, saying: "If the civil rulers are to be
rebuked, leave that task to me. See that you make no denunciations of Caesar or
his servants." It was this same evening that Judas Iscariot took Jesus aside to
inquire why nothing was done to get John out of prison. And Judas was not
wholly satisfied with Jesus' attitude.

6. THE WEEK OF INTENSIVE TRAINING

The next week was devoted to a program of intense training. Each day the six
new apostles were put in the hands of their respective nominators for a
thoroughgoing review of all they had learned and experienced in preparation for
the work of the kingdom. The older apostles carefully reviewed, for the benefit
of the younger six, Jesus' teachings up to that hour. Evenings they all
assembled in Zebedee's garden to receive Jesus' instruction.

It was at this time that Jesus established the mid-week holiday for rest and
recreation. And they pursued this plan of relaxation for one day each week
throughout the remainder of his material life. As a general rule, they never
prose-

                               top of page - 1543

cuted their regular activities on Wednesday. On this weekly holiday Jesus would
usually take himself away from them, saying: "My children, go for a day of
play. Rest yourselves from the arduous labors of the kingdom and enjoy the
refreshment that comes from reverting to your former vocations or from
discovering new sorts of recreational activity." While Jesus, at this period of
his earth life, did not actually require this day of rest, he conformed to this
plan because he knew it was best for his human associates. Jesus was the
teacher--the Master; his associates were his pupils--disciples.

Jesus endeavored to make clear to his apostles the difference between his
teachings and his life among them and the teachings which might subsequently
spring up about him. Said Jesus: "My kingdom and the gospel related thereto
shall be the burden of your message. Be not sidetracked into preaching about me
and about my teachings. Proclaim the gospel of the kingdom and portray my
revelation of the Father in heaven but do not be misled into the bypaths of
creating legends and building up a cult having to do with beliefs and teachings
about my beliefs and teachings." But again they did not understand why he thus
spoke, and no man dared to ask why he so taught them.

In these early teachings Jesus sought to avoid controversies with his apostles
as far as possible excepting those involving wrong concepts of his Father in
heaven. In all such matters he never hesitated to correct erroneous beliefs.
There was just one motive in Jesus' postbaptismal life on Urantia, and that was
a better and truer revelation of his Paradise Father; he was the pioneer of the
new and better way to God, the way of faith and love. Ever his exhortation to
the apostles was: "Go seek for the sinners; find the downhearted and comfort
the anxious."

Jesus had a perfect grasp of the situation; he possessed unlimited power, which
might have been utilized in the furtherance of his mission, but he was wholly
content with means and personalities which most people would have regarded as
inadequate and would have looked upon as insignificant. He was engaged in a
mission of enormous dramatic possibilities, but he insisted on going about his
Father's business in the most quiet and undramatic manner; he studiously
avoided all display of power. And he now planned to work quietly, at least for
several months, with his twelve apostles around about the Sea of Galilee.

7. ANOTHER DISAPPOINTMENT

Jesus had planned for a quiet missionary campaign of five months' personal
work. He did not tell the apostles how long this was to last; they worked from
week to week. And early on this first day of the week, just as he was about to
announce this to his twelve apostles, Simon Peter, James Zebedee, and Judas
Iscariot came to have private converse with him. Taking Jesus aside, Peter made
bold to say: "Master, we come at the behest of our associates to inquire
whether the time is not now ripe to enter into the kingdom. And will you
proclaim the kingdom at Capernaum, or are we to move on to Jerusalem? And when
shall we learn, each of us, the positions we are to occupy with you in the
establishment of the kingdom--" and Peter would have gone on asking further
questions, but Jesus raised an admonitory hand and stopped him. And beckoning
the other apostles standing near by to join them, Jesus said: "My little
children, how long shall I bear with you! Have I not made it plain to you that
my kingdom is not of this world? I have told you many times that I have not
come to sit on David's throne,

                               top of page - 1544

and now how is it that you are inquiring which place each of you will occupy in
the Father's kingdom? Can you not perceive that I have called you as
ambassadors of a spiritual kingdom? Do you not understand that soon, very soon,
you are to represent me in the world and in the proclamation of the kingdom,
even as I now represent my Father who is in heaven? Can it be that I have
chosen you and instructed you as messengers of the kingdom, and yet you do not
comprehend the nature and significance of this coming kingdom of divine
pre-eminence in the hearts of men? My friends, hear me once more. Banish from
your minds this idea that my kingdom is a rule of power or a reign of glory.
Indeed, all power in heaven and on earth will presently be given into my hands,
but it is not the Father's will that we use this divine endowment to glorify
ourselves during this age. In another age you shall indeed sit with me in power
and glory, but it behooves us now to submit to the will of the Father and to go
forth in humble obedience to execute his bidding on earth."

Once more were his associates shocked, stunned. Jesus sent them away two and
two to pray, asking them to return to him at noontime. On this crucial forenoon
they each sought to find God, and each endeavored to cheer and strengthen the
other, and they returned to Jesus as he had bidden them.

Jesus now recounted for them the coming of John, the baptism in the Jordan, the
marriage feast at Cana, the recent choosing of the six, and the withdrawal from
them of his own brothers in the flesh, and warned them that the enemy of the
kingdom would seek also to draw them away. After this short but earnest talk
the apostles all arose, under Peter's leadership, to declare their undying
devotion to their Master and to pledge their unswerving loyalty to the kingdom,
as Thomas expressed it, "To this coming kingdom, no matter what it is and even
if I do not fully understand it." They all truly believed in Jesus, even though
they did not fully comprehend his teaching.

Jesus now asked them how much money they had among them; he also inquired as to
what provision had been made for their families. When it developed that they
had hardly sufficient funds to maintain themselves for two weeks, he said: "It
is not the will of my Father that we begin our work in this way. We will remain
here by the sea two weeks and fish or do whatever our hands find to do; and in
the meantime, under the guidance of Andrew, the first chosen apostle, you shall
so organize yourselves as to provide for everything needful in your future
work, both for the present personal ministry and also when I shall subsequently
ordain you to preach the gospel and instruct believers." They were all greatly
cheered by these words; this was their first clearcut and positive intimation
that Jesus designed later on to enter upon more aggressive and pretentious
public efforts.

The apostles spent the remainder of the day perfecting their organization and
completing arrangements for boats and nets for embarking on the morrow's
fishing as they had all decided to devote themselves to fishing; most of them
had been fishermen, even Jesus was an experienced boatman and fisherman. Many
of the boats which they used the next few years had been built by Jesus' own
hands. And they were good and trustworthy boats.

Jesus enjoined them to devote themselves to fishing for two weeks, adding, "And
then will you go forth to become fishers of men." They fished in three groups,
Jesus going out with a different group each night. And they all so much enjoyed
Jesus! He was a good fisherman, a cheerful companion, and an inspiring friend;
the more they worked with him, the more they loved him. Said Matthew

                               top of page - 1545

one day: "The more you understand some people, the less you admire them, but of
this man, even the less I comprehend him, the more I love him."

This plan of fishing two weeks and going out to do personal work in behalf of
the kingdom for two weeks was followed for more than five months, even to the
end of this year of A.D. 26, until after the cessation of those special
persecutions which had been directed against John's disciples subsequent to his
imprisonment.

8. FIRST WORK OF THE TWELVE

After disposing of the fish catches of two weeks, Judas Iscariot, the one
chosen to act as treasurer of the twelve, divided the apostolic funds into six
equal portions, funds for the care of dependent families having been already
provided. And then near the middle of August, in the year A.D. 26, they went
forth two and two to the fields of work assigned by Andrew. The first two weeks
Jesus went out with Andrew and Peter, the second two weeks with James and John,
and so on with the other couples in the order of their choosing. In this way he
was able to go out at least once with each couple before he called them
together for the beginning of their public ministry.

Jesus taught them to preach the forgiveness of sin through faith in God without
penance or sacrifice, and that the Father in heaven loves all his children with
the same eternal love. He enjoined his apostles to refrain from discussing:

1. The work and imprisonment of John the Baptist.

2. The voice at the baptism. Said Jesus: "Only those who heard the voice may
refer to it. Speak only that which you have heard from me; speak not hearsay."

3. The turning of the water into wine at Cana. Jesus seriously charged them,
saying, "Tell no man about the water and the wine."

They had wonderful times throughout these five or six months during which they
worked as fishermen every alternate two weeks, thereby earning enough money to
support themselves in the field for each succeeding two weeks of missionary
work for the kingdom.

The common people marveled at the teaching and ministry of Jesus and his
apostles. The rabbis had long taught the Jews that the ignorant could not be
pious or righteous. But Jesus' apostles were both pious and righteous; yet they
were cheerfully ignorant of much of the learning of the rabbis and the wisdom
of the world.

Jesus made plain to his apostles the difference between the repentance of
so-called good works as taught by the Jews and the change of mind by faith--the
new birth--which he required as the price of admission to the kingdom. He
taught his apostles that faith was the only requisite to entering the Father's
kingdom. John had taught them "repentance--to flee from the wrath to come."
Jesus taught, "Faith is the open door for entering into the present, perfect,
and eternal love of God." Jesus did not speak like a prophet, one who comes to
declare the word of God. He seemed to speak of himself as one having authority.
Jesus sought to divert their minds from miracle seeking to the finding of a
real and personal experience in the satisfaction and assurance of the
indwelling of God's spirit of love and saving grace.

The disciples early learned that the Master had a profound respect and
sympathetic regard for every human being he met, and they were tremendously im

                               top of page - 1546

pressed by this uniform and unvarying consideration which he so consistently
gave to all sorts of men, women, and children. He would pause in the midst of a
profound discourse that he might go out in the road to speak good cheer to a
passing woman laden with her burden of body and soul. He would interrupt a
serious conference with his apostles to fraternize with an intruding child.
Nothing ever seemed so important to Jesus as the individual human who chanced
to be in his immediate presence. He was master and teacher, but he was more--he
was also a friend and neighbor, an understanding comrade.

Though Jesus' public teaching mainly consisted in parables and short
discourses, he invariably taught his apostles by questions and answers. He
would always pause to answer sincere questions during his later public
discourses.

The apostles were at first shocked by, but early became accustomed to, Jesus'
treatment of women; he made it very clear to them that women were to be
accorded equal rights with men in the kingdom.

9. FIVE MONTHS OF TESTING

This somewhat monotonous period of alternate fishing and personal work proved
to be a grueling experience for the twelve apostles, but they endured the test.
With all of their grumblings, doubts, and transient dissatisfactions they
remained true to their vows of devotion and loyalty to the Master. It was their
personal association with Jesus during these months of testing that so endeared
him to them that they all (save Judas Iscariot) remained loyal and true to him
even in the dark hours of the trial and crucifixion. Real men simply could not
actually desert a revered teacher who had lived so close to them and had been
so devoted to them as had Jesus. Through the dark hours of the Master's death,
in the hearts of these apostles all reason, judgment, and logic were set aside
in deference to just one extraordinary human emotion--the supreme sentiment of
friendship-loyalty. These five months of work with Jesus led these apostles,
each one of them, to regard him as the best friend he had in all the world. And
it was this human sentiment, and not his superb teachings or marvelous doings,
that held them together until after the resurrection and the renewal of the
proclamation of the gospel of the kingdom.

Not only were these months of quiet work a great test to the apostles, a test
which they survived, but this season of public inactivity was a great trial to
Jesus' family. By the time Jesus was prepared to launch forth on his public
work, his entire family (except Ruth) had practically deserted him. On only a
few occasions did they attempt to make subsequent contact with him, and then it
was to persuade him to return home with them, for they came near to believing
that he was beside himself. They simply could not fathom his philosophy nor
grasp his teaching; it was all too much for those of his own flesh and blood.

The apostles carried on their personal work in Capernaum, Bethsaida-Julias,
Chorazin, Gerasa, Hippos, Magdala, Cana, Bethlehem of Galilee, Jotapata, Ramah,
Safed, Gischala, Gadara, and Abila. Besides these towns they labored in many
villages as well as in the countryside. By the end of this period the twelve
had worked out fairly satisfactory plans for the care of their respective
families. Most of the apostles were married, some had several children, but
they had made such arrangements for the support of their home folks that, with
some little assistance from the apostolic funds, they could devote their entire
energies to the

                               top of page - 1547

Master's work without having to worry about the financial welfare of their
families.

10. ORGANIZATION OF THE TWELVE

The apostles early organized themselves in the following manner:

1. Andrew, the first chosen apostle, was designated chairman and director
general of the twelve.

2. Peter, James, and John were appointed personal companions of Jesus. They
were to attend him day and night, to minister to his physical and sundry needs,
and to accompany him on those night vigils of prayer and mysterious communion
with the Father in heaven.

3. Philip was made steward of the group. It was his duty to provide food and to
see that visitors, and even the multitude of listeners at times, had something
to eat.

4. Nathaniel watched over the needs of the families of the twelve. He received
regular reports as to the requirements of each apostle's family and, making
requisition on Judas, the treasurer, would send funds each week to those in
need.

5. Matthew was the fiscal agent of the apostolic corps. It was his duty to see
that the budget was balanced, the treasury replenished. If the funds for mutual
support were not forthcoming, if donations sufficient to maintain the party
were not received, Matthew was empowered to order the twelve back to their nets
for a season. But this was never necessary after they began their public work;
he always had sufficient funds in the treasurer's hands to finance their
activities.

6. Thomas was manager of the itinerary. It devolved upon him to arrange
lodgings and in a general way select places for teaching and preaching, thereby
insuring a smooth and expeditious travel schedule.

7. James and Judas the twin sons of Alpheus were assigned to the management of
the multitudes. It was their task to deputize a sufficient number of assistant
ushers to enable them to maintain order among the crowds during the preaching.

8. Simon Zelotes was given charge of recreation and play. He managed the
Wednesday programs and also sought to provide for a few hours of relaxation and
diversion each day.

9. Judas Iscariot was appointed treasurer. He carried the bag. He paid all
expenses and kept the books. He made budget estimates for Matthew from week to
week and also made weekly reports to Andrew. Judas paid out funds on Andrew's
authorization.

In this way the twelve functioned from their early organization up to the time
of the reorganization made necessary by the desertion of Judas, the betrayer.
The Master and his disciple-apostles went on in this simple manner until
Sunday, January 12, A.D. 27, when he called them together and formally ordained
them as ambassadors of the kingdom and preachers of its glad tidings. And soon
thereafter they prepared to start for Jerusalem and Judea on their first public
preaching tour.

                               top of page - 1548

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³  Tarrying Time   ³    The Twelve     ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³       I...       ³      Apos...      ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
