            Urantia Book Paper 145 Four Eventful Days At Capernaum
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
           To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  Paper 145 Four Eventful Days At Capernaum

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

JESUS and the apostles arrived in Capernaum the evening of Tuesday, January 13.
As usual, they made their headquarters at the home of Zebedee in Bethsaida. Now
that John the Baptist had been sent to his death, Jesus prepared to launch out
in the first open and public preaching tour of Galilee. The news that Jesus had
returned rapidly spread throughout the city, and early the next day, Mary the
mother of Jesus hastened away, going over to Nazareth to visit her son Joseph.

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday Jesus spent at the Zebedee house instructing
his apostles preparatory to their first extensive public preaching tour. He
also received and taught many earnest inquirers, both singly and in groups.
Through Andrew, he arranged to speak in the synagogue on the coming Sabbath
day.

Late on Friday evening Jesus' baby sister, Ruth, secretly paid him a visit.
They spent almost an hour together in a boat anchored a short distance from the
shore. No human being, save John Zebedee, ever knew of this visit, and he was
admonished to tell no man. Ruth was the only member of Jesus' family who
consistently and unwaveringly believed in the divinity of his earth mission
from the times of her earliest spiritual consciousness right on down through
his eventful ministry, death, resurrection, and ascension; and she finally
passed on to the worlds beyond never having doubted the supernatural character
of her father-brother's mission in the flesh. Baby Ruth was the chief comfort
of Jesus, as regards his earth family, throughout the trying ordeal of his
trial, rejection, and crucifixion.

1. THE DRAUGHT OF FISHES

On Friday morning of this same week, when Jesus was teaching by the seaside,
the people crowded him so near the water's edge that he signaled to some
fishermen occupying a near-by boat to come to his rescue. Entering the boat, he
continued to teach the assembled multitude for more than two hours. This boat
was named "Simon"; it was the former fishing vessel of Simon Peter and had been
built by Jesus' own hands. On this particular morning the boat was being used
by David Zebedee and two associates, who had just come in near shore from a
fruitless night of fishing on the lake. They were cleaning and mending their
nets when Jesus requested them to come to his assistance.

After Jesus had finished teaching the people, he said to David: "As you were
delayed by coming to my help, now let me work with you. Let us go fishing; put
out into yonder deep and let down your nets for a draught." But Simon, one of
David's assistants, answered: "Master, it is useless. We toiled all night

                               top of page - 1629

and took nothing; however, at your bidding we will put out and let down the
nets." And Simon consented to follow Jesus' directions because of a gesture
made by his master, David. When they had proceeded to the place designated by
Jesus, they let down their nets and enclosed such a multitude of fish that they
feared the nets would break, so much so that they signaled to their associates
on the shore to come to their assistance. When they had filled all three boats
with fish, almost to sinking, this Simon fell down at Jesus' knees, saying,
"Depart from me, Master, for I am a sinful man." Simon and all who were
concerned in this episode were amazed at the draught of fishes. From that day
David Zebedee, this Simon, and their associates forsook their nets and followed
Jesus.

But this was in no sense a miraculous draught of fishes. Jesus was a close
student of nature; he was an experienced fisherman and knew the habits of the
fish in the Sea of Galilee. On this occasion he merely directed these men to
the place where the fish were usually to be found at this time of day. But
Jesus' followers always regarded this as a miracle.

2. AFTERNOON AT THE SYNAGOGUE

The next Sabbath, at the afternoon service in the synagogue, Jesus preached his
sermon on "The Will of the Father in Heaven." In the morning Simon Peter had
preached on "The Kingdom." At the Thursday evening meeting of the synagogue
Andrew had taught, his subject being "The New Way." At this particular time
more people believed in Jesus in Capernaum than in any other one city on earth.

As Jesus taught in the synagogue this Sabbath afternoon, according to custom he
took the first text from the law, reading from the Book of Exodus: "And you
shall serve the Lord, your God, and he shall bless your bread and your water,
and all sickness shall be taken away from you." He chose the second text from
the Prophets, reading from Isaiah: "Arise and shine, for your light has come,
and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. Darkness may cover the earth and
gross darkness the people, but the spirit of the Lord shall arise upon you, and
the divine glory shall be seen with you. Even the gentiles shall come to this
light, and many great minds shall surrender to the brightness of this light."

This sermon was an effort on Jesus' part to make clear the fact that religion
is a personal experience. Among other things, the Master said:

"You well know that, while a kindhearted father loves his family as a whole, he
so regards them as a group because of his strong affection for each individual
member of that family. No longer must you approach the Father in heaven as a
child of Israel but as a child of God. As a group, you are indeed the children
of Israel, but as individuals, each one of you is a child of God. I have come,
not to reveal the Father to the children of Israel, but rather to bring this
knowledge of God and the revelation of his love and mercy to the individual
believer as a genuine personal experience. The prophets have all taught you
that Yahweh cares for his people, that God loves Israel. But I have come among
you to proclaim a greater truth, one which many of the later prophets also
grasped, that God loves you--every one of you--as individuals. All these
generations have you had a national or racial religion; now have I come to give
you a personal religion.

                               top of page - 1630

"But even this is not a new idea. Many of the spiritually minded among you have
known this truth, inasmuch as some of the prophets have so instructed you. Have
you not read in the Scriptures where the Prophet Jeremiah says: `In those days
they shall no more say, the fathers have eaten sour grapes and the children's
teeth are set on edge. Every man shall die for his own iniquity; every man who
eats sour grapes, his teeth shall be set on edge. Behold, the days shall come
when I will make a new covenant with my people, not according to the covenant
which I made with their fathers when I brought them out of the land of Egypt,
but according to the new way. I will even write my law in their hearts. I will
be their God, and they shall be my people. In that day they shall not say, one
man to his neighbor, do you know the Lord? Nay! For they shall all know me
personally, from the least to the greatest.'

"Have you not read these promises? Do you not believe the Scriptures? Do you
not understand that the prophet's words are fulfilled in what you behold this
very day? And did not Jeremiah exhort you to make religion an affair of the
heart, to relate yourselves to God as individuals? Did not the prophet tell you
that the God of heaven would search your individual hearts? And were you not
warned that the natural human heart is deceitful above all things and
oftentimes desperately wicked?

"Have you not read also where Ezekiel taught even your fathers that religion
must become a reality in your individual experiences? No more shall you use the
proverb which says, `The fathers have eaten sour grapes and the children's
teeth are set on edge.' `As I live,' says the Lord God, `behold all souls are
mine; as the soul of the father, so also the soul of the son. Only the soul
that sins shall die.' And then Ezekiel foresaw even this day when he spoke in
behalf of God, saying: `A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will
I put within you.'

"No more should you fear that God will punish a nation for the sin of an
individual; neither will the Father in heaven punish one of his believing
children for the sins of a nation, albeit the individual member of any family
must often suffer the material consequences of family mistakes and group
transgressions. Do you not realize that the hope of a better nation--or a
better world--is bound up in the progress and enlightenment of the individual?"

Then the Master portrayed that the Father in heaven, after man discerns this
spiritual freedom, wills that his children on earth should begin that eternal
ascent of the Paradise career which consists in the creature's conscious
response to the divine urge of the indwelling spirit to find the Creator, to
know God and to seek to become like him.

The apostles were greatly helped by this sermon. All of them realized more
fully that the gospel of the kingdom is a message directed to the individual,
not to the nation.

Even though the people of Capernaum were familiar with Jesus' teaching, they
were astonished at his sermon on this Sabbath day. He taught, indeed, as one
having authority and not as the scribes.

Just as Jesus finished speaking, a young man in the congregation who had been
much agitated by his words was seized with a violent epileptic attack and
loudly cried out. At the end of the seizure, when recovering consciousness, he
spoke in a dreamy state, saying: "What have we to do with you, Jesus of
Nazareth? You are the holy one of God; have you come to destroy us?" Jesus

                               top of page - 1631

bade the people be quiet and, taking the young man by the hand, said, "Come out
of it"--and he was immediately awakened.

This young man was not possessed of an unclean spirit or demon; he was a victim
of ordinary epilepsy. But he had been taught that his affliction was due to
possession by an evil spirit. He believed this teaching and behaved accordingly
in all that he thought or said concerning his ailment. The people all believed
that such phenomena were directly caused by the presence of unclean spirits.
Accordingly they believed that Jesus had cast a demon out of this man. But
Jesus did not at that time cure his epilepsy. Not until later on that day,
after sundown, was this man really healed. Long after the day of Pentecost the
Apostle John, who was the last to write of Jesus' doings, avoided all reference
to these so-called acts of "casting out devils," and this he did in view of the
fact that such cases of demon possession never occurred after Pentecost.

As a result of this commonplace incident the report was rapidly spread through
Capernaum that Jesus had cast a demon out of a man and miraculously healed him
in the synagogue at the conclusion of his afternoon sermon. The Sabbath was
just the time for the rapid and effective spreading of such a startling rumor.
This report was also carried to all the smaller settlements around Capernaum,
and many of the people believed it.

The cooking and the housework at the large Zebedee home, where Jesus and the
twelve made their headquarters, was for the most part done by Simon Peter's
wife and her mother. Peter's home was near that of Zebedee; and Jesus and his
friends stopped there on the way from the synagogue because Peter's wife's
mother had for several days been sick with chills and fever. Now it chanced
that, at about the time Jesus stood over this sick woman, holding her hand,
smoothing her brow, and speaking words of comfort and encouragement, the fever
left her. Jesus had not yet had time to explain to his apostles that no miracle
had been wrought at the synagogue; and with this incident so fresh and vivid in
their minds, and recalling the water and the wine at Cana, they seized upon
this coincidence as another miracle, and some of them rushed out to spread the
news abroad throughout the city.

Amatha, Peter's mother-in-law, was suffering from malarial fever. She was not
miraculously healed by Jesus at this time. Not until several hours later, after
sundown, was her cure effected in connection with the extraordinary event which
occurred in the front yard of the Zebedee home.

And these cases are typical of the manner in which a wonder-seeking generation
and a miracle-minded people unfailingly seized upon all such coincidences as
the pretext for proclaiming that another miracle had been wrought by Jesus.

3. THE HEALING AT SUNDOWN

By the time Jesus and his apostles had made ready to partake of their evening
meal near the end of this eventful Sabbath day, all Capernaum and its environs
were agog over these reputed miracles of healing; and all who were sick or
afflicted began preparations to go to Jesus or to have themselves carried there
by their friends just as soon as the sun went down. According to Jewish
teaching it was not permissible even to go in quest of health during the sacred
hours of the Sabbath.

                               top of page - 1632

Therefore, as soon as the sun sank beneath the horizon, scores of afflicted
men, women, and children began to make their way toward the Zebedee home in
Bethsaida. One man started out with his paralyzed daughter just as soon as the
sun sank behind his neighbor's house.

The whole day's events had set the stage for this extraordinary sundown scene.
Even the text Jesus had used for his afternoon sermon had intimated that
sickness should be banished; and he had spoken with such unprecedented power
and authority! His message was so compelling! While he made no appeal to human
authority, he did speak directly to the consciences and souls of men. Though he
did not resort to logic, legal quibbles, or clever sayings, he did make a
powerful, direct, clear, and personal appeal to the hearts of his hearers.

That Sabbath was a great day in the earth life of Jesus, yes, in the life of a
universe. To all local universe intents and purposes the little Jewish city of
Capernaum was the real capital of Nebadon. The handful of Jews in the Capernaum
synagogue were not the only beings to hear that momentous closing statement of
Jesus' sermon: "Hate is the shadow of fear; revenge the mask of cowardice."
Neither could his hearers forget his blessed words, declaring, "Man is the son
of God, not a child of the devil."

Soon after the setting of the sun, as Jesus and the apostles still lingered
about the supper table, Peter's wife heard voices in the front yard and, on
going to the door, saw a large company of sick folks assembling, and that the
road from Capernaum was crowded by those who were on their way to seek healing
at Jesus' hands. On seeing this sight, she went at once and informed her
husband, who told Jesus.

When the Master stepped out of the front entrance of Zebedee's house, his eyes
met an array of stricken and afflicted humanity. He gazed upon almost one
thousand sick and ailing human beings; at least that was the number of persons
gathered together before him. Not all present were afflicted; some had come
assisting their loved ones in this effort to secure healing.

The sight of these afflicted mortals, men, women, and children, suffering in
large measure as a result of the mistakes and misdeeds of his own trusted Sons
of universe administration, peculiarly touched the human heart of Jesus and
challenged the divine mercy of this benevolent Creator Son. But Jesus well knew
he could never build an enduring spiritual movement upon the foundation of
purely material wonders. It had been his consistent policy to refrain from
exhibiting his creator prerogatives. Not since Cana had the supernatural or
miraculous attended his teaching; still, this afflicted multitude touched his
sympathetic heart and mightily appealed to his understanding affection.

A voice from the front yard exclaimed: "Master, speak the word, restore our
health, heal our diseases, and save our souls." No sooner had these words been
uttered than a vast retinue of seraphim, physical controllers, Life Carriers,
and midwayers, such as always attended this incarnated Creator of a universe,
made themselves ready to act with creative power should their Sovereign give
the signal. This was one of those moments in the earth career of Jesus in which
divine wisdom and human compassion were so interlocked in the judgment of the
Son of Man that he sought refuge in appeal to his Father's will.

When Peter implored the Master to heed their cry for help, Jesus, looking down
upon the afflicted throng, answered: "I have come into the world to reveal

                               top of page - 1633

the Father and establish his kingdom. For this purpose have I lived my life to
this hour. If, therefore, it should be the will of Him who sent me and not
inconsistent with my dedication to the proclamation of the gospel of the
kingdom of heaven, I would desire to see my children made whole--and--" but the
further words of Jesus were lost in the tumult.

Jesus had passed the responsibility of this healing decision to the ruling of
his Father. Evidently the Father's will interposed no objection, for the words
of the Master had scarcely been uttered when the assembly of celestial
personalities serving under the command of Jesus' Personalized Thought Adjuster
was mightily astir. The vast retinue descended into the midst of this motley
throng of afflicted mortals, and in a moment of time 683 men, women, and
children were made whole, were perfectly healed of all their physical diseases
and other material disorders. Such a scene was never witnessed on earth before
that day, nor since. And for those of us who were present to behold this
creative wave of healing, it was indeed a thrilling spectacle.

But of all the beings who were astonished at this sudden and unexpected
outbreak of supernatural healing, Jesus was the most surprised. In a moment
when his human interests and sympathies were focused upon the scene of
suffering and affliction there spread out before him, he neglected to bear in
his human mind the admonitory warnings of his Personalized Adjuster regarding
the impossibility of limiting the time element of the creator prerogatives of a
Creator Son under certain conditions and in certain circumstances. Jesus
desired to see these suffering mortals made whole if his Father's will would
not thereby be violated. The Personalized Adjuster of Jesus instantly ruled
that such an act of creative energy at that time would not transgress the will
of the Paradise Father, and by such a decision--in view of Jesus' preceding
expression of healing desire--the creative act was. What a Creator Son desires
and his Father wills IS. Not in all of Jesus' subsequent earth life did another
such en masse physical healing of mortals take place.

As might have been expected, the fame of this sundown healing at Bethsaida in
Capernaum spread throughout all Galilee and Judea and to the regions beyond.
Once more were the fears of Herod aroused, and he sent watchers to report on
the work and teachings of Jesus and to ascertain if he was the former carpenter
of Nazareth or John the Baptist risen from the dead.

Chiefly because of this unintended demonstration of physical healing,
henceforth, throughout the remainder of his earth career, Jesus became as much
a physician as a preacher. True, he continued his teaching, but his personal
work consisted mostly in ministering to the sick and the distressed, while his
apostles did the work of public preaching and baptizing believers.

But the majority of those who were recipients of supernatural or creative
physical healing at this sundown demonstration of divine energy were not
permanently spiritually benefited by this extraordinary manifestation of mercy.
A small number were truly edified by this physical ministry, but the spiritual
kingdom was not advanced in the hearts of men by this amazing eruption of
timeless creative healing.

The healing wonders which every now and then attended Jesus' mission on earth
were not a part of his plan of proclaiming the kingdom. They were incidentally
inherent in having on earth a divine being of well-nigh unlimited creator
prerogatives in association with an unprecedented combination of

                               top of page - 1634

divine mercy and human sympathy. But such so-called miracles gave Jesus much
trouble in that they provided prejudice-raising publicity and afforded much
unsought notoriety.

4. THE EVENING AFTER

Throughout the evening following this great outburst of healing, the rejoicing
and happy throng overran Zebedee's home, and the apostles of Jesus were keyed
up to the highest pitch of emotional enthusiasm. From a human standpoint, this
was probably the greatest day of all the great days of their association with
Jesus. At no time before or after did their hopes surge to such heights of
confident expectation. Jesus had told them only a few days before, and when
they were yet within the borders of Samaria, that the hour had come when the
kingdom was to be proclaimed in power, and now their eyes had seen what they
supposed was the fulfillment of that promise. They were thrilled by the vision
of what was to come if this amazing manifestation of healing power was just the
beginning. Their lingering doubts of Jesus' divinity were banished. They were
literally intoxicated with the ecstasy of their bewildered enchantment.

But when they sought for Jesus, they could not find him. The Master was much
perturbed by what had happened. These men, women, and children who had been
healed of diverse diseases lingered late into the evening, hoping for Jesus'
return that they might thank him. The apostles could not understand the
Master's conduct as the hours passed and he remained in seclusion; their joy
would have been full and perfect but for his continued absence. When Jesus did
return to their midst, the hour was late, and practically all of the
beneficiaries of the healing episode had gone to their homes. Jesus refused the
congratulations and adoration of the twelve and the others who had lingered to
greet him, only saying: "Rejoice not that my Father is powerful to heal the
body, but rather that he is mighty to save the soul. Let us go to our rest, for
tomorrow we must be about the Father's business."

And again did twelve disappointed, perplexed, and heart-sorrowing men go to
their rest; few of them, except the twins, slept much that night. No sooner
would the Master do something to cheer the souls and gladden the hearts of his
apostles, than he seemed immediately to dash their hopes in pieces and utterly
to demolish the foundations of their courage and enthusiasm. As these
bewildered fishermen looked into each other's eyes, there was but one thought:
"We cannot understand him. What does all this mean?"

5. EARLY SUNDAY MORNING

Neither did Jesus sleep much that Saturday night. He realized that the world
was filled with physical distress and overrun with material difficulties, and
he contemplated the great danger of being compelled to devote so much of his
time to the care of the sick and afflicted that his mission of establishing the
spiritual kingdom in the hearts of men would be interfered with or at least
subordinated to the ministry of things physical. Because of these and similar
thoughts which occupied the mortal mind of Jesus during the night, he arose
that Sunday morning long before daybreak and went all alone to one of his
favorite places for communion with the Father. The theme of Jesus' prayer on
this early morning was for wisdom and judgment that he might not allow his
human sympathy,

                               top of page - 1635

joined with his divine mercy, to make such an appeal to him in the presence of
mortal suffering that all of his time would be occupied with physical ministry
to the neglect of the spiritual. Though he did not wish altogether to avoid
ministering to the sick, he knew that he must also do the more important work
of spiritual teaching and religious training.

Jesus went out in the hills to pray so many times because there were no private
rooms suitable for his personal devotions.

Peter could not sleep that night; so, very early, shortly after Jesus had gone
out to pray, he aroused James and John, and the three went to find their
Master. After more than an hour's search they found Jesus and besought him to
tell them the reason for his strange conduct. They desired to know why he
appeared to be troubled by the mighty outpouring of the spirit of healing when
all the people were overjoyed and his apostles so much rejoiced.

For more than four hours Jesus endeavored to explain to these three apostles
what had happened. He taught them about what had transpired and explained the
dangers of such manifestations. Jesus confided to them the reason for his
coming forth to pray. He sought to make plain to his personal associates the
real reasons why the kingdom of the Father could not be built upon
wonder-working and physical healing. But they could not comprehend his
teaching.

Meanwhile, early Sunday morning, other crowds of afflicted souls and many
curiosity seekers began to gather about the house of Zebedee. They clamored to
see Jesus. Andrew and the apostles were so perplexed that, while Simon Zelotes
talked to the assembly, Andrew, with several of his associates, went to find
Jesus. When Andrew had located Jesus in company with the three, he said:
"Master, why do you leave us alone with the multitude? Behold, all men seek
you; never before have so many sought after your teaching. Even now the house
is surrounded by those who have come from near and far because of your mighty
works. Will you not return with us to minister to them?"

When Jesus heard this, he answered: "Andrew, have I not taught you and these
others that my mission on earth is the revelation of the Father, and my message
the proclamation of the kingdom of heaven? How is it, then, that you would have
me turn aside from my work for the gratification of the curious and for the
satisfaction of those who seek for signs and wonders? Have we not been among
these people all these months, and have they flocked in multitudes to hear the
good news of the kingdom? Why have they now come to besiege us? Is it not
because of the healing of their physical bodies rather than as a result of the
reception of spiritual truth for the salvation of their souls? When men are
attracted to us because of extraordinary manifestations, many of them come
seeking not for truth and salvation but rather in quest of healing for their
physical ailments and to secure deliverance from their material difficulties.

"All this time I have been in Capernaum, and both in the synagogue and by the
seaside have I proclaimed the good news of the kingdom to all who had ears to
hear and hearts to receive the truth. It is not the will of my Father that I
should return with you to cater to these curious ones and to become occupied
with the ministry of things physical to the exclusion of the spiritual. I have
ordained you to preach the gospel and minister to the sick, but I must not
become engrossed in healing to the exclusion of my teaching. No, Andrew, I will
not return with you. Go and tell the people to believe in that which we have
taught them and to rejoice in the liberty of the sons of God, and make ready
for our departure for the other cities of Galilee, where the way has al-

                               top of page - 1636

ready been prepared for the preaching of the good tidings of the kingdom. It
was for this purpose that I came forth from the Father. Go, then, and prepare
for our immediate departure while I here await your return."

When Jesus had spoken, Andrew and his fellow apostles sorrowfully made their
way back to Zebedee's house, dismissed the assembled multitude, and quickly
made ready for the journey as Jesus had directed. And so, on the afternoon of
Sunday, January 18, A.D. 28, Jesus and the apostles started out upon their
first really public and open preaching tour of the cities of Galilee. On this
first tour they preached the gospel of the kingdom in many cities, but they did
not visit Nazareth.

That Sunday afternoon, shortly after Jesus and his apostles had left for
Rimmon, his brothers James and Jude came to see him, calling at Zebedee's
house. About noon of that day Jude had sought out his brother James and
insisted that they go to Jesus. By the time James consented to go with Jude,
Jesus had already departed.

The apostles were loath to leave the great interest which had been aroused at
Capernaum. Peter calculated that no less than one thousand believers could have
been baptized into the kingdom. Jesus listened to them patiently, but he would
not consent to return. Silence prevailed for a season, and then Thomas
addressed his fellow apostles, saying: "Let's go! The Master has spoken. No
matter if we cannot fully comprehend the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, of
one thing we are certain: We follow a teacher who seeks no glory for himself."
And reluctantly they went forth to preach the good tidings in the cities of
Galilee.

                               top of page - 1637

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³  At Gilboa And   ³       First       ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³       I...       ³   Preaching...    ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
