        Urantia Book Paper 152 Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
           To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Paper 152 Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE story of the cure of Amos, the Kheresa lunatic, had already reached
Bethsaida and Capernaum, so that a great crowd was waiting for Jesus when his
boat landed that Tuesday forenoon. Among this throng were the new observers
from the Jerusalem Sanhedrin who had come down to Capernaum to find cause for
the Master's apprehension and conviction. As Jesus spoke with those who had
assembled to greet him, Jairus, one of the rulers of the synagogue, made his
way through the crowd and, falling down at his feet, took him by the hand and
besought that he would hasten away with him, saying: "Master, my little
daughter, an only child, lies in my home at the point of death. I pray that you
will come and heal her." When Jesus heard the request of this father, he said:
"I will go with you."

As Jesus went along with Jairus, the large crowd which had heard the father's
request followed on to see what would happen. Shortly before they reached the
ruler's house, as they hastened through a narrow street and as the throng
jostled him, Jesus suddenly stopped, exclaiming, "Someone touched me." And when
those who were near him denied that they had touched him, Peter spoke up:
"Master, you can see that this crowd presses you, threatening to crush us, and
yet you say `someone has touched me.' What do you mean?" Then Jesus said: "I
asked who touched me, for I perceived that living energy had gone forth from
me." As Jesus looked about him, his eyes fell upon a near-by woman, who, coming
forward, knelt at his feet and said: "For years I have been afflicted with a
scourging hemorrhage. I have suffered many things from many physicians; I have
spent all my substance, but none could cure me. Then I heard of you, and I
thought if I may but touch the hem of his garment, I shall certainly be made
whole. And so I pressed forward with the crowd as it moved along until,
standing near you, Master, I touched the border of your garment, and I was made
whole; I know that I have been healed of my affliction."

When Jesus heard this, he took the woman by the hand and, lifting her up, said:
"Daughter, your faith has made you whole; go in peace." It was her faith and
not her touch that made her whole. And this case is a good illustration of many
apparently miraculous cures which attended upon Jesus' earth career, but which
he in no sense consciously willed. The passing of time demonstrated that this
woman was really cured of her malady. Her faith was of the sort that laid
direct hold upon the creative power resident in the Master's person. With the
faith she had, it was only necessary to approach the Master's person. It was
not at all necessary to touch his garment; that was merely the superstitious
part of her belief. Jesus called this woman, Veronica of Caesarea-Philippi,
into

                               top of page - 1699

his presence to correct two errors which might have lingered in her mind, or
which might have persisted in the minds of those who witnessed this healing: He
did not want Veronica to go away thinking that her fear in attempting to steal
her cure had been honored, or that her superstition in associating the touch of
his garment with her healing had been effective. He desired all to know that it
was her pure and living faith that had wrought the cure.

1. AT JAIRUS'S HOUSE

Jairus was, of course, terribly impatient of this delay in reaching his home;
so they now hastened on at quickened pace. Even before they entered the ruler's
yard, one of his servants came out, saying: "Trouble not the Master; your
daughter is dead." But Jesus seemed not to heed the servant's words, for,
taking with him Peter, James, and John, he turned and said to the
grief-stricken father: "Fear not; only believe." When he entered the house, he
found the flute-players already there with the mourners, who were making an
unseemly tumult; already were the relatives engaged in weeping and wailing. And
when he had put all the mourners out of the room, he went in with the father
and mother and his three apostles. He had told the mourners that the damsel was
not dead, but they laughed him to scorn. Jesus now turned to the mother,
saying: "Your daughter is not dead; she is only asleep." And when the house had
quieted down, Jesus, going up to where the child lay, took her by the hand and
said, "Daughter, I say to you, awake and arise!" And when the girl heard these
words, she immediately rose up and walked across the room. And presently, after
she had recovered from her daze, Jesus directed that they should give her
something to eat, for she had been a long time without food.

Since there was much agitation in Capernaum against Jesus, he called the family
together and explained that the maiden had been in a state of coma following a
long fever, and that he had merely aroused her, that he had not raised her from
the dead. He likewise explained all this to his apostles, but it was futile;
they all believed he had raised the little girl from the dead. What Jesus said
in explanation of many of these apparent miracles had little effect on his
followers. They were miracle-minded and lost no opportunity to ascribe another
wonder to Jesus. Jesus and the apostles returned to Bethsaida after he had
specifically charged all of them that they should tell no man.

When he came out of Jairus's house, two blind men led by a dumb boy followed
him and cried out for healing. About this time Jesus' reputation as a healer
was at its very height. Everywhere he went the sick and the afflicted were
waiting for him. The Master now looked much worn, and all of his friends were
becoming concerned lest he continue his work of teaching and healing to the
point of actual collapse.

Jesus' apostles, let alone the common people, could not understand the nature
and attributes of this God-man. Neither has any subsequent generation been able
to evaluate what took place on earth in the person of Jesus of Nazareth. And
there can never occur an opportunity for either science or religion to check up
on these remarkable events for the simple reason that such an extraordinary
situation can never again occur, either on this world or on any other world in
Nebadon. Never again, on any world in this entire universe, will a being appear
in the likeness of mortal flesh, at the same time embodying all

                               top of page - 1700

the attributes of creative energy combined with spiritual endowments which
transcend time and most other material limitations.

Never before Jesus was on earth, nor since, has it been possible so directly
and graphically to secure the results attendant upon the strong and living
faith of mortal men and women. To repeat these phenomena, we would have to go
into the immediate presence of Michael, the Creator, and find him as he was in
those days--the Son of Man. Likewise, today, while his absence prevents such
material manifestations, you should refrain from placing any sort of limitation
on the possible exhibition of his spiritual power. Though the Master is absent
as a material being, he is present as a spiritual influence in the hearts of
men. By going away from the world, Jesus made it possible for his spirit to
live alongside that of his Father which indwells the minds of all mankind.

2. FEEDING THE FIVE THOUSAND

Jesus continued to teach the people by day while he instructed the apostles and
evangelists at night. On Friday he declared a furlough of one week that all his
followers might go home or to their friends for a few days before preparing to
go up to Jerusalem for the Passover. But more than one half of his disciples
refused to leave him, and the multitude was daily increasing in size, so much
so that David Zebedee desired to establish a new encampment, but Jesus refused
consent. The Master had so little rest over the Sabbath that on Sunday morning,
March 27, he sought to get away from the people. Some of the evangelists were
left to talk to the multitude while Jesus and the twelve planned to escape,
unnoticed, to the opposite shore of the lake, where they proposed to obtain
much needed rest in a beautiful park south of Bethsaida-Julias. This region was
a favorite resorting place for Capernaum folks; they were all familiar with
these parks on the eastern shore.

But the people would not have it so. They saw the direction taken by Jesus'
boat, and hiring every craft available, they started out in pursuit. Those who
could not obtain boats fared forth on foot to walk around the upper end of the
lake.

By late afternoon more than a thousand persons had located the Master in one of
the parks, and he spoke to them briefly, being followed by Peter. Many of these
people had brought food with them, and after eating the evening meal, they
gathered about in small groups while Jesus' apostles and disciples taught them.

Monday afternoon the multitude had increased to more than three thousand. And
still--way into the evening--the people continued to flock in, bringing all
manner of sick folks with them. Hundreds of interested persons had made their
plans to stop over at Capernaum to see and hear Jesus on their way to the
Passover, and they simply refused to be disappointed. By Wednesday noon about
five thousand men, women, and children were assembled here in this park to the
south of Bethsaida-Julias. The weather was pleasant, it being near the end of
the rainy season in this locality.

Philip had provided a three days' supply of food for Jesus and the twelve,
which was in the custody of the Mark lad, their boy of all chores. By afternoon
of this, the third day for almost half of this multitude, the food the people
had brought with them was nearly exhausted. David Zebedee had no tented

                               top of page - 1701

city here to feed and accommodate the crowds. Neither had Philip made food
provision for such a multitude. But the people, even though they were hungry,
would not go away. It was being quietly whispered about that Jesus, desiring to
avoid trouble with both Herod and the Jerusalem leaders, had chosen this quiet
spot outside the jurisdiction of all his enemies as the proper place to be
crowned king. The enthusiasm of the people was rising every hour. Not a word
was said to Jesus, though, of course, he knew all that was going on. Even the
twelve apostles were still tainted with such notions, and especially the
younger evangelists. The apostles who favored this attempt to proclaim Jesus
king were Peter, John, Simon Zelotes, and Judas Iscariot. Those opposing the
plan were Andrew, James, Nathaniel, and Thomas. Matthew, Philip, and the
Alpheus twins were noncommittal. The ringleader of this plot to make him king
was Joab, one of the young evangelists.

This was the stage setting about five o'clock on Wednesday afternoon, when
Jesus asked James Alpheus to summon Andrew and Philip. Said Jesus: "What shall
we do with the multitude? They have been with us now three days, and many of
them are hungry. They have no food." Philip and Andrew exchanged glances, and
then Philip answered: "Master, you should send these people away so that they
may go to the villages around about and buy themselves food." And Andrew,
fearing the materialization of the king plot, quickly joined with Philip,
saying: "Yes, Master, I think it best that you dismiss the multitude so that
they may go their way and buy food while you secure rest for a season." By this
time others of the twelve had joined the conference. Then said Jesus: "But I do
not desire to send them away hungry; can you not feed them?" This was too much
for Philip, and he spoke right up: "Master, in this country place where can we
buy bread for this multitude? Two hundred denarii worth would not be enough for
lunch."

Before the apostles had an opportunity to express themselves, Jesus turned to
Andrew and Philip, saying: "I do not want to send these people away. Here they
are, like sheep without a shepherd. I would like to feed them. What food have
we with us?" While Philip was conversing with Matthew and Judas, Andrew sought
out the Mark lad to ascertain how much was left of their store of provisions.
He returned to Jesus, saying: "The lad has left only five barley loaves and two
dried fishes"--and Peter promptly added, "We have yet to eat this evening."

For a moment Jesus stood in silence. There was a faraway look in his eyes. The
apostles said nothing. Jesus turned suddenly to Andrew and said, "Bring me the
loaves and fishes." And when Andrew had brought the basket to Jesus, the Master
said: "Direct the people to sit down on the grass in companies of one hundred
and appoint a leader over each group while you bring all of the evangelists
here with us."

Jesus took up the loaves in his hands, and after he had given thanks, he broke
the bread and gave to his apostles, who passed it on to their associates, who
in turn carried it to the multitude. Jesus in like manner broke and distributed
the fishes. And this multitude did eat and were filled. And when they had
finished eating, Jesus said to the disciples: "Gather up the broken pieces that
remain over so that nothing will be lost." And when they had finished gathering
up the fragments, they had twelve basketfuls. They who ate of this
extraordinary feast numbered about five thousand men, women, and children.

                               top of page - 1702

And this is the first and only nature miracle which Jesus performed as a result
of his conscious preplanning. It is true that his disciples were disposed to
call many things miracles which were not, but this was a genuine supernatural
ministration. In this case, so we were taught, Michael multiplied food elements
as he always does except for the elimination of the time factor and the visible
life channel.

3. THE KING-MAKING EPISODE

The feeding of the five thousand by supernatural energy was another of those
cases where human pity plus creative power equaled that which happened. Now
that the multitude had been fed to the full, and since Jesus' fame was then and
there augmented by this stupendous wonder, the project to seize the Master and
proclaim him king required no further personal direction. The idea seemed to
spread through the crowd like a contagion. The reaction of the multitude to
this sudden and spectacular supplying of their physical needs was profound and
overwhelming. For a long time the Jews had been taught that the Messiah, the
son of David, when he should come, would cause the land again to flow with milk
and honey, and that the bread of life would be bestowed upon them as manna from
heaven was supposed to have fallen upon their forefathers in the wilderness.
And was not all of this expectation now fulfilled right before their eyes? When
this hungry, undernourished multitude had finished gorging itself with the
wonder-food, there was but one unanimous reaction: "Here is our king." The
wonder-working deliverer of Israel had come. In the eyes of these simple-minded
people the power to feed carried with it the right to rule. No wonder, then,
that the multitude, when it had finished feasting, rose as one man and shouted,
"Make him king!"

This mighty shout enthused Peter and those of the apostles who still retained
the hope of seeing Jesus assert his right to rule. But these false hopes were
not to live for long. This mighty shout of the multitude had hardly ceased to
reverberate from the near-by rocks when Jesus stepped upon a huge stone and,
lifting up his right hand to command their attention, said: "My children, you
mean well, but you are short-sighted and material-minded." There was a brief
pause; this stalwart Galilean was there majestically posed in the enchanting
glow of that eastern twilight. Every inch he looked a king as he continued to
speak to this breathless multitude: "You would make me king, not because your
souls have been lighted with a great truth, but because your stomachs have been
filled with bread. How many times have I told you that my kingdom is not of
this world? This kingdom of heaven which we proclaim is a spiritual
brotherhood, and no man rules over it seated upon a material throne. My Father
in heaven is the all-wise and the all-powerful Ruler over this spiritual
brotherhood of the sons of God on earth. Have I so failed in revealing to you
the Father of spirits that you would make a king of his Son in the flesh! Now
all of you go hence to your own homes. If you must have a king, let the Father
of lights be enthroned in the heart of each of you as the spirit Ruler of all
things."

These words of Jesus sent the multitude away stunned and disheartened. Many who
had believed in him turned back and followed him no more from that day. The
apostles were speechless; they stood in silence gathered about the twelve
baskets of the fragments of food; only the chore boy, the Mark

                               top of page - 1703

lad, spoke, "And he refused to be our king." Jesus, before going off to be
alone in the hills, turned to Andrew and said: "Take your brethren back to
Zebedee's house and pray with them, especially for your brother, Simon Peter."

4. SIMON PETER'S NIGHT VISION

The apostles, without their Master--sent off by themselves--entered the boat
and in silence began to row toward Bethsaida on the western shore of the lake.
None of the twelve was so crushed and downcast as Simon Peter. Hardly a word
was spoken; they were all thinking of the Master alone in the hills. Had he
forsaken them? He had never before sent them all away and refused to go with
them. What could all this mean?

Darkness descended upon them, for there had arisen a strong and contrary wind
which made progress almost impossible. As the hours of darkness and hard rowing
passed, Peter grew weary and fell into a deep sleep of exhaustion. Andrew and
James put him to rest on the cushioned seat in the stern of the boat. While the
other apostles toiled against the wind and the waves, Peter dreamed a dream; he
saw a vision of Jesus coming to them walking on the sea. When the Master seemed
to walk on by the boat, Peter cried out, "Save us, Master, save us." And those
who were in the rear of the boat heard him say some of these words. As this
apparition of the night season continued in Peter's mind, he dreamed that he
heard Jesus say: "Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid." This was like the
balm of Gilead to Peter's disturbed soul; it soothed his troubled spirit, so
that (in his dream) he cried out to the Master: "Lord, if it really is you, bid
me come and walk with you on the water." And when Peter started to walk upon
the water, the boisterous waves frightened him, and as he was about to sink, he
cried out, "Lord, save me!" And many of the twelve heard him utter this cry.
Then Peter dreamed that Jesus came to the rescue and, stretching forth his
hand, took hold and lifted him up, saying: "O, you of little faith, wherefore
did you doubt?"

In connection with the latter part of his dream Peter arose from the seat
whereon he slept and actually stepped overboard and into the water. And he
awakened from his dream as Andrew, James, and John reached down and pulled him
out of the sea.

To Peter this experience was always real. He sincerely believed that Jesus came
to them that night. He only partially convinced John Mark, which explains why
Mark left a portion of the story out of his narrative. Luke, the physician, who
made careful search into these matters, concluded that the episode was a vision
of Peter's and therefore refused to give place to this story in the preparation
of his narrative.

5. BACK IN BETHSAIDA

Thursday morning, before daylight, they anchored their boat offshore near
Zebedee's house and sought sleep until about noontime. Andrew was first up and,
going for a walk by the sea, found Jesus, in company with their chore boy,
sitting on a stone by the water's edge. Notwithstanding that many of the
multitude and the young evangelists searched all night and much of the next day
about the eastern hills for Jesus, shortly after midnight he and the Mark lad
had started to walk around the lake and across the river, back to Bethsaida.

                               top of page - 1704

Of the five thousand who were miraculously fed, and who, when their stomachs
were full and their hearts empty, would have made him king, only about five
hundred persisted in following after him. But before these received word that
he was back in Bethsaida, Jesus asked Andrew to assemble the twelve apostles
and their associates, including the women, saying, "I desire to speak with
them." And when all were ready, Jesus said:

"How long shall I bear with you? Are you all slow of spiritual comprehension
and deficient in living faith? All these months have I taught you the truths of
the kingdom, and yet are you dominated by material motives instead of spiritual
considerations. Have you not even read in the Scriptures where Moses exhorted
the unbelieving children of Israel, saying: `Fear not, stand still and see the
salvation of the Lord'? Said the singer: `Put your trust in the Lord.' `Be
patient, wait upon the Lord and be of good courage. He shall strengthen your
heart.' `Cast your burden on the Lord, and he shall sustain you. Trust him at
all times and pour out your heart to him, for God is your refuge.' `He who
dwells in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the
Almighty.' `It is better to trust the Lord than to put confidence in human
princes.'

"And now do you all see that the working of miracles and the performance of
material wonders will not win souls for the spiritual kingdom? We fed the
multitude, but it did not lead them to hunger for the bread of life neither to
thirst for the waters of spiritual righteousness. When their hunger was
satisfied, they sought not entrance into the kingdom of heaven but rather
sought to proclaim the Son of Man king after the manner of the kings of this
world, only that they might continue to eat bread without having to toil
therefor. And all this, in which many of you did more or less participate, does
nothing to reveal the heavenly Father or to advance his kingdom on earth. Have
we not sufficient enemies among the religious leaders of the land without doing
that which is likely to estrange also the civil rulers? I pray that the Father
will anoint your eyes that you may see and open your ears that you may hear, to
the end that you may have full faith in the gospel which I have taught you."

Jesus then announced that he wished to withdraw for a few days of rest with his
apostles before they made ready to go up to Jerusalem for the Passover, and he
forbade any of the disciples or the multitude to follow him. Accordingly they
went by boat to the region of Gennesaret for two or three days of rest and
sleep. Jesus was preparing for a great crisis of his life on earth, and he
therefore spent much time in communion with the Father in heaven.

The news of the feeding of the five thousand and the attempt to make Jesus king
aroused widespread curiosity and stirred up the fears of both the religious
leaders and the civil rulers throughout all Galilee and Judea. While this great
miracle did nothing to further the gospel of the kingdom in the souls of
material-minded and halfhearted believers, it did serve the purpose of bringing
to a head the miracle-seeking and king-craving proclivities of Jesus' immediate
family of apostles and close disciples. This spectacular episode brought an end
to the early era of teaching, training, and healing, thereby preparing the way
for the inauguration of this last year of proclaiming the higher and more
spiritual phases of the new gospel of the kingdom--divine sonship, spiritual
liberty, and eternal salvation.

                               top of page - 1705

6. AT GENNESARET

While resting at the home of a wealthy believer in the Gennesaret region, Jesus
held informal conferences with the twelve every afternoon. The ambassadors of
the kingdom were a serious, sober, and chastened group of disillusioned men.
But even after all that had happened, and as subsequent events disclosed, these
twelve men were not yet fully delivered from their inbred and long-cherished
notions about the coming of the Jewish Messiah. Events of the preceding few
weeks had moved too swiftly for these astonished fishermen to grasp their full
significance. It requires time for men and women to effect radical and
extensive changes in their basic and fundamental concepts of social conduct,
philosophic attitudes, and religious convictions.

While Jesus and the twelve were resting at Gennesaret, the multitudes
dispersed, some going to their homes, others going on up to Jerusalem for the
Passover. In less than one month's time the enthusiastic and open followers of
Jesus, who numbered more than fifty thousand in Galilee alone, shrank to less
than five hundred. Jesus desired to give his apostles such an experience with
the fickleness of popular acclaim that they would not be tempted to rely on
such manifestations of transient religious hysteria after he should leave them
alone in the work of the kingdom, but he was only partially successful in this
effort.

The second night of their sojourn at Gennesaret the Master again told the
apostles the parable of the sower and added these words: "You see, my children,
the appeal to human feelings is transitory and utterly disappointing; the
exclusive appeal to the intellect of man is likewise empty and barren; it is
only by making your appeal to the spirit which lives within the human mind that
you can hope to achieve lasting success and accomplish those marvelous
transformations of human character that are presently shown in the abundant
yielding of the genuine fruits of the spirit in the daily lives of all who are
thus delivered from the darkness of doubt by the birth of the spirit into the
light of faith--the kingdom of heaven."

Jesus taught the appeal to the emotions as the technique of arresting and
focusing the intellectual attention. He designated the mind thus aroused and
quickened as the gateway to the soul, where there resides that spiritual nature
of man which must recognize truth and respond to the spiritual appeal of the
gospel in order to afford the permanent results of true character
transformations.

Jesus thus endeavored to prepare the apostles for the impending shock--the
crisis in the public attitude toward him which was only a few days distant. He
explained to the twelve that the religious rulers of Jerusalem would conspire
with Herod Antipas to effect their destruction. The twelve began to realize
more fully (though not finally) that Jesus was not going to sit on David's
throne. They saw more fully that spiritual truth was not to be advanced by
material wonders. They began to realize that the feeding of the five thousand
and the popular movement to make Jesus king was the apex of the
miracle-seeking, wonder-working expectance of the people and the height of
Jesus' acclaim by the populace. They vaguely discerned and dimly foresaw the
approaching times of spiritual sifting and cruel adversity. These twelve men
were

                               top of page - 1706

slowly awaking to the realization of the real nature of their task as
ambassadors of the kingdom, and they began to gird themselves for the trying
and testing ordeals of the last year of the Master's ministry on earth.

Before they left Gennesaret, Jesus instructed them regarding the miraculous
feeding of the five thousand, telling them just why he engaged in this
extraordinary manifestation of creative power and also assuring them that he
did not thus yield to his sympathy for the multitude until he had ascertained
that it was "according to the Father's will."

7. AT JERUSALEM

Sunday, April 3, Jesus, accompanied only by the twelve apostles, started from
Bethsaida on the journey to Jerusalem. To avoid the multitudes and to attract
as little attention as possible, they journeyed by way of Gerasa and
Philadelphia. He forbade them to do any public teaching on this trip; neither
did he permit them to teach or preach while sojourning in Jerusalem. They
arrived at Bethany, near Jerusalem, late on Wednesday evening, April 6. For
this one night they stopped at the home of Lazarus, Martha, and Mary, but the
next day they separated. Jesus, with John, stayed at the home of a believer
named Simon, near the house of Lazarus in Bethany. Judas Iscariot and Simon
Zelotes stopped with friends in Jerusalem, while the rest of the apostles
sojourned, two and two, in different homes.

Jesus entered Jerusalem only once during this Passover, and that was on the
great day of the feast. Many of the Jerusalem believers were brought out by
Abner to meet Jesus at Bethany. During this sojourn at Jerusalem the twelve
learned how bitter the feeling was becoming toward their Master. They departed
from Jerusalem all believing that a crisis was impending.

On Sunday, April 24, Jesus and the apostles left Jerusalem for Bethsaida, going
by way of the coast cities of Joppa, Caesarea, and Ptolemais. Thence, overland
they went by Ramah and Chorazin to Bethsaida, arriving on Friday, April 29.
Immediately on reaching home, Jesus dispatched Andrew to ask of the ruler of
the synagogue permission to speak the next day, that being the Sabbath, at the
afternoon service. And Jesus well knew that that would be the last time he
would ever be permitted to speak in the Capernaum synagogue.

                               top of page - 1707

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   Tarrying And   ³   The Crisis At   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Te...       ³       C...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
