                 Urantia Book Paper 157 At Caesarea-philippi
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
           To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Paper 157 At Caesarea-philippi

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

BEFORE Jesus took the twelve for a short sojourn in the vicinity of
Caesarea-Philippi, he arranged through the messengers of David to go over to
Capernaum on Sunday, August 7, for the purpose of meeting his family. By
prearrangement this visit was to occur at the Zebedee boatshop. David Zebedee
had arranged with Jude, Jesus' brother, for the presence of the entire Nazareth
family--Mary and all of Jesus' brothers and sisters--and Jesus went with Andrew
and Peter to keep this appointment. It was certainly the intention of Mary and
the children to keep this engagement, but it so happened that a group of the
Pharisees, knowing that Jesus was on the opposite side of the lake in Philip's
domains, decided to call upon Mary to learn what they could of his whereabouts.
The arrival of these Jerusalem emissaries greatly perturbed Mary, and noting
the tension and nervousness of the entire family, they concluded that Jesus
must have been expected to pay them a visit. Accordingly they installed
themselves in Mary's home and, after summoning reinforcements, waited patiently
for Jesus' arrival. And this, of course, effectively prevented any of the
family from attempting to keep their appointment with Jesus. Several times
during the day both Jude and Ruth endeavored to elude the vigilance of the
Pharisees in their efforts to send word to Jesus, but it was of no avail.

Early in the afternoon David's messengers brought Jesus word that the Pharisees
were encamped on the doorstep of his mother's house, and therefore he made no
attempt to visit his family. And so again, through no fault of either, Jesus
and his earth family failed to make contact.

1. THE TEMPLE-TAX COLLECTOR

As Jesus, with Andrew and Peter, tarried by the lake near the boatshop, a
temple-tax collector came upon them and, recognizing Jesus, called Peter to one
side and said: "Does not your Master pay the temple tax?" Peter was inclined to
show indignation at the suggestion that Jesus should be expected to contribute
to the maintenance of the religious activities of his sworn enemies, but,
noting a peculiar expression on the face of the tax collector, he rightly
surmised that it was the purpose to entrap them in the act of refusing to pay
the customary half shekel for the support of the temple services at Jerusalem.
Accordingly, Peter replied: "Why of course the Master pays the temple tax. You
wait by the gate, and I will presently return with the tax."

Now Peter had spoken hastily. Judas carried their funds, and he was across the
lake. Neither he, his brother, nor Jesus had brought along any money. And

                               top of page - 1744

knowing that the Pharisees were looking for them, they could not well go to
Bethsaida to obtain money. When Peter told Jesus about the collector and that
he had promised him the money, Jesus said: "If you have promised, then should
you pay. But wherewith will you redeem your promise? Will you again become a
fisherman that you may honor your word? Nevertheless, Peter, it is well in the
circumstances that we pay the tax. Let us give these men no occasion for
offense at our attitude. We will wait here while you go with the boat and cast
for the fish, and when you have sold them at yonder market, pay the collector
for all three of us."

All of this had been overheard by the secret messenger of David who stood near
by, and who then signaled to an associate, fishing near the shore, to come in
quickly. When Peter made ready to go out in the boat for a catch, this
messenger and his fisherman friend presented him with several large baskets of
fish and assisted him in carrying them to the fish merchant near by, who
purchased the catch, paying sufficient, with what was added by the messenger of
David, to meet the temple tax for the three. The collector accepted the tax,
foregoing the penalty for tardy payment because they had been for some time
absent from Galilee.

It is not strange that you have a record of Peter's catching a fish with a
shekel in its mouth. In those days there were current many stories about
finding treasures in the mouths of fishes; such tales of near miracles were
commonplace. So, as Peter left them to go toward the boat, Jesus remarked,
half-humorously: "Strange that the sons of the king must pay tribute; usually
it is the stranger who is taxed for the upkeep of the court, but it behooves us
to afford no stumbling block for the authorities. Go hence! maybe you will
catch the fish with the shekel in its mouth." Jesus having thus spoken, and
Peter so soon appearing with the temple tax, it is not surprising that the
episode became later expanded into a miracle as recorded by the writer of
Matthew's Gospel.

Jesus, with Andrew and Peter, waited by the seashore until nearly sundown.
Messengers brought them word that Mary's house was still under surveillance;
therefore, when it grew dark, the three waiting men entered their boat and
slowly rowed away toward the eastern shore of the Sea of Galilee.

2. AT BETHSAIDA-JULIAS

On Monday, August 8, while Jesus and the twelve apostles were encamped in
Magadan Park, near Bethsaida-Julias, more than one hundred believers, the
evangelists, the women's corps, and others interested in the establishment of
the kingdom, came over from Capernaum for a conference. And many of the
Pharisees, learning that Jesus was here, came also. By this time some of the
Sadducees were united with the Pharisees in their effort to entrap Jesus.
Before going into the closed conference with the believers, Jesus held a public
meeting at which the Pharisees were present, and they heckled the Master and
otherwise sought to disturb the assembly. Said the leader of the disturbers:
"Teacher, we would like you to give us a sign of your authority to teach, and
then, when the same shall come to pass, all men will know that you have been
sent by God." And Jesus answered them: "When it is evening, you say it will be
fair weather, for the heaven is red; in the morning it will be foul weather,
for the heaven is red and lowering. When you see a cloud rising in the west,
you say showers will come; when the wind blows from the south, you say
scorching heat will come.

                               top of page - 1745

How is it that you so well know how to discern the face of the heavens but are
so utterly unable to discern the signs of the times? To those who would know
the truth, already has a sign been given; but to an evil-minded and
hypocritical generation no sign shall be given."

When Jesus had thus spoken, he withdrew and prepared for the evening conference
with his followers. At this conference it was decided to undertake a united
mission throughout all the cities and villages of the Decapolis as soon as
Jesus and the twelve should return from their proposed visit to
Caesarea-Philippi. The Master participated in planning for the Decapolis
mission and, in dismissing the company, said: "I say to you, beware of the
leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Be not deceived by their show of
much learning and by their profound loyalty to the forms of religion. Be only
concerned with the spirit of living truth and the power of true religion. It is
not the fear of a dead religion that will save you but rather your faith in a
living experience in the spiritual realities of the kingdom. Do not allow
yourselves to become blinded by prejudice and paralyzed by fear. Neither permit
reverence for the traditions so to pervert your understanding that your eyes
see not and your ears hear not. It is not the purpose of true religion merely
to bring peace but rather to insure progress. And there can be no peace in the
heart or progress in the mind unless you fall wholeheartedly in love with
truth, the ideals of eternal realities. The issues of life and death are being
set before you--the sinful pleasures of time against the righteous realities of
eternity. Even now you should begin to find deliverance from the bondage of
fear and doubt as you enter upon the living of the new life of faith and hope.
And when the feelings of service for your fellow men arise within your soul, do
not stifle them; when the emotions of love for your neighbor well up within
your heart, give expression to such urges of affection in intelligent ministry
to the real needs of your fellows."

3. PETER'S CONFESSION

Early Tuesday morning Jesus and the twelve apostles left Magadan Park for
Caesarea-Philippi, the capital of the Tetrarch Philip's domain.
Caesarea-Philippi was situated in a region of wondrous beauty. It nestled in a
charming valley between scenic hills where the Jordan poured forth from an
underground cave. The heights of Mount Hermon were in full view to the north,
while from the hills just to the south a magnificent view was had of the upper
Jordan and the Sea of Galilee.

Jesus had gone to Mount Hermon in his early experience with the affairs of the
kingdom, and now that he was entering upon the final epoch of his work, he
desired to return to this mount of trial and triumph, where he hoped the
apostles might gain a new vision of their responsibilities and acquire new
strength for the trying times just ahead. As they journeyed along the way,
about the time of passing south of the Waters of Merom, the apostles fell to
talking among themselves about their recent experiences in Phoenicia and
elsewhere and to recounting how their message had been received, and how the
different peoples regarded their Master.

As they paused for lunch, Jesus suddenly confronted the twelve with the first
question he had ever addressed to them concerning himself. He asked this
surprising question, "Who do men say that I am?"

                               top of page - 1746

Jesus had spent long months in training these apostles as to the nature and
character of the kingdom of heaven, and he well knew the time had come when he
must begin to teach them more about his own nature and his personal
relationship to the kingdom. And now, as they were seated under the mulberry
trees, the Master made ready to hold one of the most momentous sessions of his
long association with the chosen apostles.

More than half the apostles participated in answering Jesus' question. They
told him that he was regarded as a prophet or as an extraordinary man by all
who knew him; that even his enemies greatly feared him, accounting for his
powers by the indictment that he was in league with the prince of devils. They
told him that some in Judea and Samaria who had not met him personally believed
he was John the Baptist risen from the dead. Peter explained that he had been,
at sundry times and by various persons, compared with Moses, Elijah, Isaiah,
and Jeremiah. When Jesus had listened to this report, he drew himself upon his
feet, and looking down upon the twelve sitting about him in a semicircle, with
startling emphasis he pointed to them with a sweeping gesture of his hand and
asked, "But who say you that I am?" There was a moment of tense silence. The
twelve never took their eyes off the Master, and then Simon Peter, springing to
his feet, exclaimed: "You are the Deliverer, the Son of the living God." And
the eleven sitting apostles arose to their feet with one accord, thereby
indicating that Peter had spoken for all of them.

When Jesus had beckoned them again to be seated, and while still standing
before them, he said: "This has been revealed to you by my Father. The hour has
come when you should know the truth about me. But for the time being I charge
you that you tell this to no man. Let us go hence."

And so they resumed their journey to Caesarea-Philippi, arriving late that
evening and stopping at the home of Celsus, who was expecting them. The
apostles slept little that night; they seemed to sense that a great event in
their lives and in the work of the kingdom had transpired.

4. THE TALK ABOUT THE KINGDOM

Since the occasions of Jesus' baptism by John and the turning of the water into
wine at Cana, the apostles had, at various times, virtually accepted him as the
Messiah. For short periods some of them had truly believed that he was the
expected Deliverer. But hardly would such hopes spring up in their hearts than
the Master would dash them to pieces by some crushing word or disappointing
deed. They had long been in a state of turmoil due to conflict between the
concepts of the expected Messiah which they held in their minds and the
experience of their extraordinary association with this extraordinary man which
they held in their hearts.

It was late forenoon on this Wednesday when the apostles assembled in Celsus'
garden for their noontime meal. During most of the night and since they had
arisen that morning, Simon Peter and Simon Zelotes had been earnestly laboring
with their brethren to bring them all to the point of the wholehearted
acceptance of the Master, not merely as the Messiah, but also as the divine Son
of the living God. The two Simons were well-nigh agreed in their estimate of
Jesus, and they labored diligently to bring their brethren around to the full
acceptance of their views. While Andrew continued as the director-

                               top of page - 1747

general of the apostolic corps, his brother, Simon Peter, was becoming,
increasingly and by common consent, the spokesman for the twelve.

They were all seated in the garden at just about noon when the Master appeared.
They wore expressions of dignified solemnity, and all arose to their feet as he
approached them. Jesus relieved the tension by that friendly and fraternal
smile which was so characteristic of him when his followers took themselves, or
some happening related to themselves, too seriously. With a commanding gesture
he indicated that they should be seated. Never again did the twelve greet their
Master by arising when he came into their presence. They saw that he did not
approve of such an outward show of respect.

After they had partaken of their meal and were engaged in discussing plans for
the forthcoming tour of the Decapolis, Jesus suddenly looked up into their
faces and said: "Now that a full day has passed since you assented to Simon
Peter's declaration regarding the identity of the Son of Man, I would ask if
you still hold to your decision?" On hearing this, the twelve stood upon their
feet, and Simon Peter, stepping a few paces forward toward Jesus, said: "Yes,
Master, we do. We believe that you are the Son of the living God." And Peter
sat down with his brethren.

Jesus, still standing, then said to the twelve: "You are my chosen ambassadors,
but I know that, in the circumstances, you could not entertain this belief as a
result of mere human knowledge. This is a revelation of the spirit of my Father
to your inmost souls. And when, therefore, you make this confession by the
insight of the spirit of my Father which dwells within you, I am led to declare
that upon this foundation will I build the brotherhood of the kingdom of
heaven. Upon this rock of spiritual reality will I build the living temple of
spiritual fellowship in the eternal realities of my Father's kingdom. All the
forces of evil and the hosts of sin shall not prevail against this human
fraternity of the divine spirit. And while my Father's spirit shall ever be the
divine guide and mentor of all who enter the bonds of this spirit fellowship,
to you and your successors I now deliver the keys of the outward kingdom--the
authority over things temporal--the social and economic features of this
association of men and women as fellows of the kingdom." And again he charged
them, for the time being, that they should tell no man that he was the Son of
God.

Jesus was beginning to have faith in the loyalty and integrity of his apostles.
The Master conceived that a faith which could stand what his chosen
representatives had recently passed through would undoubtedly endure the fiery
trials which were just ahead and emerge from the apparent wreckage of all their
hopes into the new light of a new dispensation and thereby be able to go forth
to enlighten a world sitting in darkness. On this day the Master began to
believe in the faith of his apostles, save one.

And ever since that day this same Jesus has been building that living temple
upon that same eternal foundation of his divine sonship, and those who thereby
become self-conscious sons of God are the human stones which constitute this
living temple of sonship erecting to the glory and honor of the wisdom and love
of the eternal Father of spirits.

And when Jesus had thus spoken, he directed the twelve to go apart by
themselves in the hills to seek wisdom, strength, and spiritual guidance until
the time of the evening meal. And they did as the Master admonished them.

                               top of page - 1748

5. THE NEW CONCEPT

The new and vital feature of Peter's confession was the clear-cut recognition
that Jesus was the Son of God, of his unquestioned divinity. Ever since his
baptism and the wedding at Cana these apostles had variously regarded him as
the Messiah, but it was not a part of the Jewish concept of the national
deliverer that he should be divine. The Jews had not taught that the Messiah
would spring from divinity; he was to be the "anointed one," but hardly had
they contemplated him as being "the Son of God." In the second confession more
emphasis was placed upon the combined nature, the supernal fact that he was the
Son of Man and the Son of God, and it was upon this great truth of the union of
the human nature with the divine nature that Jesus declared he would build the
kingdom of heaven.

Jesus had sought to live his life on earth and complete his bestowal mission as
the Son of Man. His followers were disposed to regard him as the expected
Messiah. Knowing that he could never fulfill their Messianic expectations, he
endeavored to effect such a modification of their concept of the Messiah as
would enable him partially to meet their expectations. But he now recognized
that such a plan could hardly be carried through successfully. He therefore
elected boldly to disclose the third plan--openly to announce his divinity,
acknowledge the truthfulness of Peter's confession, and directly proclaim to
the twelve that he was a Son of God.

For three years Jesus had been proclaiming that he was the "Son of Man," while
for these same three years the apostles had been increasingly insistent that he
was the expected Jewish Messiah. He now disclosed that he was the Son of God,
and upon the concept of the combined nature of the Son of Man and the Son of
God, he determined to build the kingdom of heaven. He had decided to refrain
from further efforts to convince them that he was not the Messiah. He now
proposed boldly to reveal to them what he is, and then to ignore their
determination to persist in regarding him as the Messiah.

6. THE NEXT AFTERNOON

Jesus and the apostles remained another day at the home of Celsus, waiting for
messengers to arrive from David Zebedee with funds. Following the collapse of
the popularity of Jesus with the masses there occurred a great falling off in
revenue. When they reached Caesarea-Philippi, the treasury was empty. Matthew
was loath to leave Jesus and his brethren at such a time, and he had no ready
funds of his own to hand over to Judas as he had so many times done in the
past. However, David Zebedee had foreseen this probable diminution of revenue
and had accordingly instructed his messengers that, as they made their way
through Judea, Samaria, and Galilee, they should act as collectors of money to
be forwarded to the exiled apostles and their Master. And so, by evening of
this day, these messengers arrived from Bethsaida bringing funds sufficient to
sustain the apostles until their return to embark upon the Decapolis tour.
Matthew expected to have money from the sale of his last piece of property in
Capernaum by that time, having arranged that these funds should be anonymously
turned over to Judas.

                               top of page - 1749

Neither Peter nor the other apostles had a very adequate conception of Jesus'
divinity. They little realized that this was the beginning of a new epoch in
their Master's career on earth, the time when the teacher-healer was becoming
the newly conceived Messiah--the Son of God. From this time on a new note
appeared in the Master's message. Henceforth his one ideal of living was the
revelation of the Father, while his one idea in teaching was to present to his
universe the personification of that supreme wisdom which can only be
comprehended by living it. He came that we all might have life and have it more
abundantly.

Jesus now entered upon the fourth and last stage of his human life in the
flesh. The first stage was that of his childhood, the years when he was only
dimly conscious of his origin, nature, and destiny as a human being. The second
stage was the increasingly self-conscious years of youth and advancing manhood,
during which he came more clearly to comprehend his divine nature and human
mission. This second stage ended with the experiences and revelations
associated with his baptism. The second stage of the Master's earth experience
extended from the baptism through the years of his ministry as teacher and
healer and up to this momentous hour of Peter's confession at
Caesarea-Philippi. This third period of his earth life embraced the times when
his apostles and his immediate followers knew him as the Son of Man and
regarded him as the Messiah. The fourth and last period of his earth career
began here at Caesarea-Philippi and extended on to the crucifixion. This stage
of his ministry was characterized by his acknowledgment of divinity and
embraced the labors of his last year in the flesh. During the fourth period,
while the majority of his followers still regarded him as the Messiah, he
became known to the apostles as the Son of God. Peter's confession marked the
beginning of the new period of the more complete realization of the truth of
his supreme ministry as a bestowal Son on Urantia and for an entire universe,
and the recognition of that fact, at least hazily, by his chosen ambassadors.

Thus did Jesus exemplify in his life what he taught in his religion: the growth
of the spiritual nature by the technique of living progress. He did not place
emphasis, as did his later followers, upon the incessant struggle between the
soul and the body. He rather taught that the spirit was easy victor over both
and effective in the profitable reconciliation of much of this intellectual and
instinctual warfare.

A new significance attaches to all of Jesus' teachings from this point on.
Before Caesarea-Philippi he presented the gospel of the kingdom as its master
teacher. After Caesarea-Philippi he appeared not merely as a teacher but as the
divine representative of the eternal Father, who is the center and
circumference of this spiritual kingdom, and it was required that he do all
this as a human being, the Son of Man.

Jesus had sincerely endeavored to lead his followers into the spiritual kingdom
as a teacher, then as a teacher-healer, but they would not have it so. He well
knew that his earth mission could not possibly fulfill the Messianic
expectations of the Jewish people; the olden prophets had portrayed a Messiah
which he could never be. He sought to establish the Father's kingdom as the Son
of Man, but his followers would not go forward in the adventure. Jesus, seeing
this, then elected to meet his believers part way and in so doing prepared
openly to assume the role of the bestowal Son of God.

                               top of page - 1750

Accordingly, the apostles heard much that was new as Jesus talked to them this
day in the garden. And some of these pronouncements sounded strange even to
them. Among other startling announcements they listened to such as the
following:

"From this time on, if any man would have fellowship with us, let him assume
the obligations of sonship and follow me. And when I am no more with you, think
not that the world will treat you better than it did your Master. If you love
me, prepare to prove this affection by your willingness to make the supreme
sacrifice."

"And mark well my words: I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners.
The Son of Man came not to be ministered to, but to minister and to bestow his
life as the gift for all. I declare to you that I have come to seek and to save
those who are lost."

"No man in this world now sees the Father except the Son who came forth from
the Father. But if the Son be lifted up, he will draw all men to himself, and
whosoever believes this truth of the combined nature of the Son shall be
endowed with life that is more than age-abiding."

"We may not yet proclaim openly that the Son of Man is the Son of God, but it
has been revealed to you; wherefore do I speak boldly to you concerning these
mysteries. Though I stand before you in this physical presence, I came forth
from God the Father. Before Abraham was, I am. I did come forth from the Father
into this world as you have known me, and I declare to you that I must
presently leave this world and return to the work of my Father."

"And now can your faith comprehend the truth of these declarations in the face
of my warning you that the Son of Man will not meet the expectations of your
fathers as they conceived the Messiah? My kingdom is not of this world. Can you
believe the truth about me in the face of the fact that, though the foxes have
holes and the birds of heaven have nests, I have not where to lay my head?"

"Nevertheless, I tell you that the Father and I are one. He who has seen me has
seen the Father. My Father is working with me in all these things, and he will
never leave me alone in my mission, even as I will never forsake you when you
presently go forth to proclaim this gospel throughout the world.

"And now have I brought you apart with me and by yourselves for a little while
that you may comprehend the glory, and grasp the grandeur, of the life to which
I have called you: the faith-adventure of the establishment of my Father's
kingdom in the hearts of mankind, the building of my fellowship of living
association with the souls of all who believe this gospel."

The apostles listened to these bold and startling statements in silence; they
were stunned. And they dispersed in small groups to discuss and ponder the
Master's words. They had confessed that he was the Son of God, but they could
not grasp the full meaning of what they had been led to do.

7. ANDREW'S CONFERENCE

That evening Andrew took it upon himself to hold a personal and searching
conference with each of his brethren, and he had profitable and heartening

                               top of page - 1751

talks with all of his associates except Judas Iscariot. Andrew had never
enjoyed such intimate personal association with Judas as with the other
apostles and therefore had not thought it of serious account that Judas never
had freely and confidentially related himself to the head of the apostolic
corps. But Andrew was now so worried by Judas's attitude that, later on that
night, after all the apostles were fast asleep, he sought out Jesus and
presented his cause for anxiety to the Master. Said Jesus: "It is not amiss,
Andrew, that you have come to me with this matter, but there is nothing more
that we can do; only go on placing the utmost confidence in this apostle. And
say nothing to his brethren concerning this talk with me."

And that was all Andrew could elicit from Jesus. Always had there been some
strangeness between this Judean and his Galilean brethren. Judas had been
shocked by the death of John the Baptist, severely hurt by the Master's rebukes
on several occasions, disappointed when Jesus refused to be made king,
humiliated when he fled from the Pharisees, chagrined when he refused to accept
the challenge of the Pharisees for a sign, bewildered by the refusal of his
Master to resort to manifestations of power, and now, more recently, depressed
and sometimes dejected by an empty treasury. And Judas missed the stimulus of
the multitudes.

Each of the other apostles was, in some and varying measure, likewise affected
by these selfsame trials and tribulations, but they loved Jesus. At least they
must have loved the Master more than did Judas, for they went through with him
to the bitter end.

Being from Judea, Judas took personal offense at Jesus' recent warning to the
apostles to "beware the leaven of the Pharisees"; he was disposed to regard
this statement as a veiled reference to himself. But the great mistake of Judas
was: Time and again, when Jesus would send his apostles off by themselves to
pray, Judas, instead of engaging in sincere communion with the spiritual forces
of the universe, indulged in thoughts of human fear while he persisted in the
entertainment of subtle doubts about the mission of Jesus as well as giving in
to his unfortunate tendency to harbor feelings of revenge.

And now Jesus would take his apostles along with him to Mount Hermon, where he
had appointed to inaugurate his fourth phase of earth ministry as the Son of
God. Some of them were present at his baptism in the Jordan and had witnessed
the beginning of his career as the Son of Man, and he desired that some of them
should also be present to hear his authority for the assumption of the new and
public role of a Son of God. Accordingly, on the morning of Friday, August 12,
Jesus said to the twelve: "Lay in provisions and prepare yourselves for a
journey to yonder mountain, where the spirit bids me go to be endowed for the
finish of my work on earth. And I would take my brethren along that they may
also be strengthened for the trying times of going with me through this
experience."

                               top of page - 1752

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³  The Sojourn At  ³   The Mount Of    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³       ...        ³       Tr...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
