             Urantia Book Paper 158 The Mount Of Transfiguration
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
           To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 158 The Mount Of Transfiguration

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

IT WAS near sundown on Friday afternoon, August 12, A.D. 29, when Jesus and his
associates reached the foot of Mount Hermon, near the very place where the lad
Tiglath once waited while the Master ascended the mountain alone to settle the
spiritual destinies of Urantia and technically to terminate the Lucifer
rebellion. And here they sojourned for two days in spiritual preparation for
the events so soon to follow.

In a general way, Jesus knew beforehand what was to transpire on the mountain,
and he much desired that all his apostles might share this experience. It was
to fit them for this revelation of himself that he tarried with them at the
foot of the mountain. But they could not attain those spiritual levels which
would justify their exposure to the full experience of the visitation of the
celestial beings so soon to appear on earth. And since he could not take all of
his associates with him, he decided to take only the three who were in the
habit of accompanying him on such special vigils. Accordingly, only Peter,
James, and John shared even a part of this unique experience with the Master.

1. THE TRANSFIGURATION

Early on the morning of Monday, August 15, Jesus and the three apostles began
the ascent of Mount Hermon, and this was six days after the memorable noontide
confession of Peter by the roadside under the mulberry trees.

Jesus had been summoned to go up on the mountain, apart by himself, for the
transaction of important matters having to do with the progress of his bestowal
in the flesh as this experience was related to the universe of his own
creation. It is significant that this extraordinary event was timed to occur
while Jesus and the apostles were in the lands of the gentiles, and that it
actually transpired on a mountain of the gentiles.

They reached their destination, about halfway up the mountain, shortly before
noon, and while eating lunch, Jesus told the three apostles something of his
experience in the hills to the east of Jordan shortly after his baptism and
also some more of his experience on Mount Hermon in connection with his former
visit to this lonely retreat.

When a boy, Jesus used to ascend the hill near his home and dream of the
battles which had been fought by the armies of empires on the plain of
Esdraelon; now he ascended Mount Hermon to receive the endowment which was to
prepare him to descend upon the plains of the Jordan to enact the closing
scenes of the drama of his bestowal on Urantia. The Master could have
relinquished the struggle this day on Mount Hermon and returned to his rule of
the universe domains, but he not only chose to meet the requirements of his
order of

                               top of page - 1753

divine sonship embraced in the mandate of the Eternal Son on Paradise, but he
also elected to meet the last and full measure of the present will of his
Paradise Father. On this day in August three of his apostles saw him decline to
be invested with full universe authority. They looked on in amazement as the
celestial messengers departed, leaving him alone to finish out his earth life
as the Son of Man and the Son of God.

The faith of the apostles was at a high point at the time of the feeding of the
five thousand, and then it rapidly fell almost to zero. Now, as a result of the
Master's admission of his divinity, the lagging faith of the twelve arose in
the next few weeks to its highest pitch, only to undergo a progressive decline.
The third revival of their faith did not occur until after the Master's
resurrection.

It was about three o'clock on this beautiful afternoon that Jesus took leave of
the three apostles, saying: "I go apart by myself for a season to commune with
the Father and his messengers; I bid you tarry here and, while awaiting my
return, pray that the Father's will may be done in all your experience in
connection with the further bestowal mission of the Son of Man." And after
saying this to them, Jesus withdrew for a long conference with Gabriel and the
Father Melchizedek, not returning until about six o'clock. When Jesus saw their
anxiety over his prolonged absence, he said: "Why were you afraid? You well
know I must be about my Father's business; wherefore do you doubt when I am not
with you? I now declare that the Son of Man has chosen to go through his full
life in your midst and as one of you. Be of good cheer; I will not leave you
until my work is finished."

As they partook of their meager evening meal, Peter asked the Master, "How long
do we remain on this mountain away from our brethren?" And Jesus answered:
"Until you shall see the glory of the Son of Man and know that whatsoever I
have declared to you is true." And they talked over the affairs of the Lucifer
rebellion while seated about the glowing embers of their fire until darkness
drew on and the apostles' eyes grew heavy, for they had begun their journey
very early that morning.

When the three had been fast asleep for about half an hour, they were suddenly
awakened by a near-by crackling sound, and much to their amazement and
consternation, on looking about them, they beheld Jesus in intimate converse
with two brilliant beings clothed in the habiliments of the light of the
celestial world. And Jesus' face and form shone with the luminosity of a
heavenly light. These three conversed in a strange language, but from certain
things said, Peter erroneously conjectured that the beings with Jesus were
Moses and Elijah; in reality, they were Gabriel and the Father Melchizedek. The
physical controllers had arranged for the apostles to witness this scene
because of Jesus' request.

The three apostles were so badly frightened that they were slow in collecting
their wits, but Peter, who was first to recover himself, said, as the dazzling
vision faded from before them and they observed Jesus standing alone: "Jesus,
Master, it is good to have been here. We rejoice to see this glory. We are
loath to go back down to the inglorious world. If you are willing, let us abide
here, and we will erect three tents, one for you, one for Moses, and one for
Elijah." And Peter said this because of his confusion, and because nothing else
came into his mind at just that moment.

While Peter was yet speaking, a silvery cloud drew near and overshadowed the
four of them. The apostles now became greatly frightened, and as they fell

                               top of page - 1754

down on their faces to worship, they heard a voice, the same that had spoken on
the occasion of Jesus' baptism, say: "This is my beloved Son; give heed to
him." And when the cloud vanished, again was Jesus alone with the three, and he
reached down and touched them, saying: "Arise and be not afraid; you shall see
greater things than this." But the apostles were truly afraid; they were a
silent and thoughtful trio as they made ready to descend the mountain shortly
before midnight.

2. COMING DOWN THE MOUNTAIN

For about half the distance down the mountain not a word was spoken. Jesus then
began the conversation by remarking: "Make certain that you tell no man, not
even your brethren, what you have seen and heard on this mountain until the Son
of Man has risen from the dead." The three apostles were shocked and bewildered
by the Master's words, "until the Son of Man has risen from the dead." They had
so recently reaffirmed their faith in him as the Deliverer, the Son of God, and
they had just beheld him transfigured in glory before their very eyes, and now
he began to talk about "rising from the dead"!

Peter shuddered at the thought of the Master's dying--it was too disagreeable
an idea to entertain--and fearing that James or John might ask some question
relative to this statement, he thought best to start up a diverting
conversation and, not knowing what else to talk about, gave expression to the
first thought coming into his mind, which was: "Master, why is it that the
scribes say that Elijah must first come before the Messiah shall appear?" And
Jesus, knowing that Peter sought to avoid reference to his death and
resurrection, answered: "Elijah indeed comes first to prepare the way for the
Son of Man, who must suffer many things and finally be rejected. But I tell you
that Elijah has already come, and they received him not but did to him
whatsoever they willed." And then did the three apostles perceive that he
referred to John the Baptist as Elijah. Jesus knew that, if they insisted on
regarding him as the Messiah, then must John be the Elijah of the prophecy.

Jesus enjoined silence about their observation of the foretaste of his
post-resurrection glory because he did not want to foster the notion that,
being now received as the Messiah, he would in any degree fulfill their
erroneous concepts of a wonder-working deliverer. Although Peter, James, and
John pondered all this in their minds, they spoke not of it to any man until
after the Master's resurrection.

As they continued to descend the mountain, Jesus said to them: "You would not
receive me as the Son of Man; therefore have I consented to be received in
accordance with your settled determination, but, mistake not, the will of my
Father must prevail. If you thus choose to follow the inclination of your own
wills, you must prepare to suffer many disappointments and experience many
trials, but the training which I have given you should suffice to bring you
triumphantly through even these sorrows of your own choosing."

Jesus did not take Peter, James, and John with him up to the mount of the
transfiguration because they were in any sense better prepared than the other
apostles to witness what happened, or because they were spiritually more fit to
enjoy such a rare privilege. Not at all. He well knew that none of the twelve
were spiritually qualified for this experience; therefore did he take with him
only the three apostles who were assigned to accompany him at those times when
he desired to be alone to enjoy solitary communion.

                               top of page - 1755

3. MEANING OF THE TRANSFIGURATION

That which Peter, James, and John witnessed on the mount of transfiguration was
a fleeting glimpse of a celestial pageant which transpired that eventful day on
Mount Hermon. The transfiguration was the occasion of:

1. The acceptance of the fullness of the bestowal of the incarnated life of
Michael on Urantia by the Eternal Mother-Son of Paradise. As far as concerned
the requirements of the Eternal Son, Jesus had now received assurance of their
fulfillment. And Gabriel brought Jesus that assurance.

2. The testimony of the satisfaction of the Infinite Spirit as to the fullness
of the Urantia bestowal in the likeness of mortal flesh. The universe
representative of the Infinite Spirit, the immediate associate of Michael on
Salvington and his ever-present coworker, on this occasion spoke through the
Father Melchizedek.

Jesus welcomed this testimony regarding the success of his earth mission
presented by the messengers of the Eternal Son and the Infinite Spirit, but he
noted that his Father did not indicate that the Urantia bestowal was finished;
only did the unseen presence of the Father bear witness through Jesus'
Personalized Adjuster, saying, "This is my beloved Son; give heed to him." And
this was spoken in words to be heard also by the three apostles.

After this celestial visitation Jesus sought to know his Father's will and
decided to pursue the mortal bestowal to its natural end. This was the
significance of the transfiguration to Jesus. To the three apostles it was an
event marking the entrance of the Master upon the final phase of his earth
career as the Son of God and the Son of Man.

After the formal visitation of Gabriel and the Father Melchizedek, Jesus held
informal converse with these, his Sons of ministry, and communed with them
concerning the affairs of the universe.

4. THE EPILEPTIC BOY

It was shortly before breakfast time on this Tuesday morning when Jesus and his
companions arrived at the apostolic camp. As they drew near, they discerned a
considerable crowd gathered around the apostles and soon began to hear the loud
words of argument and disputation of this group of about fifty persons,
embracing the nine apostles and a gathering equally divided between Jerusalem
scribes and believing disciples who had tracked Jesus and his associates in
their journey from Magadan.

Although the crowd engaged in numerous arguments, the chief controversy was
about a certain citizen of Tiberias who had arrived the preceding day in quest
of Jesus. This man, James of Safed, had a son about fourteen years old, an only
child, who was severely afflicted with epilepsy. In addition to this nervous
malady this lad had become possessed by one of those wandering, mischievous,
and rebellious midwayers who were then present on earth and uncontrolled, so
that the youth was both epileptic and demon-possessed.

For almost two weeks this anxious father, a minor official of Herod Antipas,
had wandered about through the western borders of Philip's domains, seeking
Jesus that he might entreat him to cure this afflicted son. And he did not
catch

                               top of page - 1756

up with the apostolic party until about noon of this day when Jesus was up on
the mountain with the three apostles.

The nine apostles were much surprised and considerably perturbed when this man,
accompanied by almost forty other persons who were looking for Jesus, suddenly
came upon them. At the time of the arrival of this group the nine apostles, at
least the majority of them, had succumbed to their old temptation--that of
discussing who should be greatest in the coming kingdom; they were busily
arguing about the probable positions which would be assigned the individual
apostles. They simply could not free themselves entirely from the
long-cherished idea of the material mission of the Messiah. And now that Jesus
himself had accepted their confession that he was indeed the Deliverer--at
least he had admitted the fact of his divinity--what was more natural than
that, during this period of separation from the Master, they should fall to
talking about those hopes and ambitions which were uppermost in their hearts.
And they were engaged in these discussions when James of Safed and his fellow
seekers after Jesus came upon them.

Andrew stepped up to greet this father and his son, saying, "Whom do you seek?"
Said James: "My good man, I search for your Master. I seek healing for my
afflicted son. I would have Jesus cast out this devil that possesses my child."
And then the father proceeded to relate to the apostles how his son was so
afflicted that he had many times almost lost his life as a result of these
malignant seizures.

As the apostles listened, Simon Zelotes and Judas Iscariot stepped into the
presence of the father, saying: "We can heal him; you need not wait for the
Master's return. We are ambassadors of the kingdom; no longer do we hold these
things in secret. Jesus is the Deliverer, and the keys of the kingdom have been
delivered to us." By this time Andrew and Thomas were in consultation at one
side. Nathaniel and the others looked on in amazement; they were all aghast at
the sudden boldness, if not presumption, of Simon and Judas. Then said the
father: "If it has been given you to do these works, I pray that you will speak
those words which will deliver my child from this bondage." Then Simon stepped
forward and, placing his hand on the head of the child, looked directly into
his eyes and commanded: "Come out of him, you unclean spirit; in the name of
Jesus obey me." But the lad had only a more violent fit, while the scribes
mocked the apostles in derision, and the disappointed believers suffered the
taunts of these unfriendly critics.

Andrew was deeply chagrined at this ill-advised effort and its dismal failure.
He called the apostles aside for conference and prayer. After this season of
meditation, feeling keenly the sting of their defeat and sensing the
humiliation resting upon all of them, Andrew sought, in a second attempt, to
cast out the demon, but only failure crowned his efforts. Andrew frankly
confessed defeat and requested the father to remain with them overnight or
until Jesus' return, saying: "Perhaps this sort goes not out except by the
Master's personal command."

And so, while Jesus was descending the mountain with the exuberant and ecstatic
Peter, James, and John, their nine brethren likewise were sleepless in their
confusion and downcast humiliation. They were a dejected and chastened group.
But James of Safed would not give up. Although they could give him no idea as
to when Jesus might return, he decided to stay on until the Master came back.

                               top of page - 1757

5, JESUS HEALS THE BOY

As Jesus drew near, the nine apostles were more than relieved to welcome him,
and they were greatly encouraged to behold the good cheer and unusual
enthusiasm which marked the countenances of Peter, James, and John. They all
rushed forward to greet Jesus and their three brethren. As they exchanged
greetings, the crowd came up, and Jesus asked, "What were you disputing about
as we drew near?" But before the disconcerted and humiliated apostles could
reply to the Master's question, the anxious father of the afflicted lad stepped
forward and, kneeling at Jesus' feet, said: "Master, I have a son, an only
child, who is possessed by an evil spirit. Not only does he cry out in terror,
foam at the mouth, and fall like a dead person at the time of seizure, but
oftentimes this evil spirit which possesses him rends him in convulsions and
sometimes has cast him into the water and even into the fire. With much
grinding of teeth and as a result of many bruises, my child wastes away. His
life is worse than death; his mother and I are of a sad heart and a broken
spirit. About noon yesterday, seeking for you, I caught up with your disciples,
and while we were waiting, your apostles sought to cast out this demon, but
they could not do it. And now, Master, will you do this for us, will you heal
my son?"

When Jesus had listened to this recital, he touched the kneeling father and
bade him rise while he gave the near-by apostles a searching survey. Then said
Jesus to all those who stood before him: "O faithless and perverse generation,
how long shall I bear with you? How long shall I be with you? How long ere you
learn that the works of faith come not forth at the bidding of doubting
unbelief?" And then, pointing to the bewildered father, Jesus said, "Bring
hither your son." And when James had brought the lad before Jesus, he asked,
"How long has the boy been afflicted in this way?" The father answered, "Since
he was a very young child." And as they talked, the youth was seized with a
violent attack and fell in their midst, gnashing his teeth and foaming at the
mouth. After a succession of violent convulsions he lay there before them as
one dead. Now did the father again kneel at Jesus' feet while he implored the
Master, saying: "If you can cure him, I beseech you to have compassion on us
and deliver us from this affliction." And when Jesus heard these words, he
looked down into the father's anxious face, saying: "Question not my Father's
power of love, only the sincerity and reach of your faith. All things are
possible to him who really believes." And then James of Safed spoke those
long-to-be-remembered words of commingled faith and doubt, "Lord, I believe. I
pray you help my unbelief."

When Jesus heard these words, he stepped forward and, taking the lad by the
hand, said: "I will do this in accordance with my Father's will and in honor of
living faith. My son, arise! Come out of him, disobedient spirit, and go not
back into him." And placing the hand of the lad in the hand of the father,
Jesus said: "Go your way. The Father has granted the desire of your soul." And
all who were present, even the enemies of Jesus, were astonished at what they
saw.

It was indeed a disillusionment for the three apostles who had so recently
enjoyed the spiritual ecstasy of the scenes and experiences of the
transfiguration, so soon to return to this scene of the defeat and discomfiture
of their fellow apostles. But it was ever so with these twelve ambassadors of
the kingdom.

                               top of page - 1758

They never failed to alternate between exaltation and humiliation in their life
experiences.

This was a true healing of a double affliction, a physical ailment and a spirit
malady. And the lad was permanently cured from that hour. When James had
departed with his restored son, Jesus said: "We go now to Caesarea-Philippi;
make ready at once." And they were a quiet group as they journeyed southward
while the crowd followed on behind.

6. IN CELSUS' GARDEN

They remained overnight with Celsus, and that evening in the garden, after they
had eaten and rested, the twelve gathered about Jesus, and Thomas said:
"Master, while we who tarried behind still remain ignorant of what transpired
up on the mountain, and which so greatly cheered our brethren who were with
you, we crave to have you talk with us concerning our defeat and instruct us in
these matters, seeing that those things which happened on the mountain cannot
be disclosed at this time."

And Jesus answered Thomas, saying: "Everything which your brethren heard on the
mountain shall be revealed to you in due season. But I will now show you the
cause of your defeat in that which you so unwisely attempted. While your Master
and his companions, your brethren, ascended yonder mountain yesterday to seek
for a larger knowledge of the Father's will and to ask for a richer endowment
of wisdom effectively to do that divine will, you who remained on watch here
with instructions to strive to acquire the mind of spiritual insight and to
pray with us for a fuller revelation of the Father's will, failed to exercise
the faith at your command but, instead, yielded to the temptation and fell into
your old evil tendencies to seek for yourselves preferred places in the kingdom
of heaven--the material and temporal kingdom which you persist in
contemplating. And you cling to these erroneous concepts in spite of the
reiterated declaration that my kingdom is not of this world.

"No sooner does your faith grasp the identity of the Son of Man than your
selfish desire for worldly preferment creeps back upon you, and you fall to
discussing among yourselves as to who should be greatest in the kingdom of
heaven, a kingdom which, as you persist in conceiving it, does not exist, nor
ever shall. Have not I told you that he who would be greatest in the kingdom of
my Father's spiritual brotherhood must become little in his own eyes and thus
become the server of his brethren? Spiritual greatness consists in an
understanding love that is Godlike and not in an enjoyment of the exercise of
material power for the exaltation of self. In what you attempted, in which you
so completely failed, your purpose was not pure. Your motive was not divine.
Your ideal was not spiritual. Your ambition was not altruistic. Your procedure
was not based on love, and your goal of attainment was not the will of the
Father in heaven.

"How long will it take you to learn that you cannot time-shorten the course of
established natural phenomena except when such things are in accordance with
the Father's will? nor can you do spiritual work in the absence of spiritual
power. And you can do neither of these, even when their potential is present,
without the existence of that third and essential human factor, the personal
experience of the possession of living faith. Must you always have material
manifestations as an attraction for the spiritual realities of the kingdom? Can

                               top of page - 1759

you not grasp the spirit significance of my mission without the visible
exhibition of unusual works? When can you be depended upon to adhere to the
higher and spiritual realities of the kingdom regardless of the outward
appearance of all material manifestations?"

When Jesus had thus spoken to the twelve, he added: "And now go to your rest,
for on the morrow we return to Magadan and there take counsel concerning our
mission to the cities and villages of the Decapolis. And in the conclusion of
this day's experience, let me declare to each of you that which I spoke to your
brethren on the mountain, and let these words find a deep lodgment in your
hearts: The Son of Man now enters upon the last phase of the bestowal. We are
about to begin those labors which shall presently lead to the great and final
testing of your faith and devotion when I shall be delivered into the hands of
the men who seek my destruction. And remember what I am saying to you: The Son
of Man will be put to death, but he shall rise again."

They retired for the night, sorrowful. They were bewildered; they could not
comprehend these words. And while they were afraid to ask aught concerning what
he had said, they did recall all of it subsequent to his resurrection.

7. PETER'S PROTEST

Early this Wednesday morning Jesus and the twelve departed from
Caesarea-Philippi for Magadan Park near Bethsaida-Julias. The apostles had
slept very little that night, so they were up early and ready to go. Even the
stolid Alpheus twins had been shocked by this talk about the death of Jesus. As
they journeyed south, just beyond the Waters of Merom they came to the Damascus
road, and desiring to avoid the scribes and others whom Jesus knew would
presently be coming along after them, he directed that they go on to Capernaum
by the Damascus road which passes through Galilee. And he did this because he
knew that those who followed after him would go on down over the east Jordan
road since they reckoned that Jesus and the apostles would fear to pass through
the territory of Herod Antipas. Jesus sought to elude his critics and the crowd
which followed him that he might be alone with his apostles this day.

They traveled on through Galilee until well past the time for their lunch, when
they stopped in the shade to refresh themselves. And after they had partaken of
food, Andrew, speaking to Jesus, said: "Master, my brethren do not comprehend
your deep sayings. We have come fully to believe that you are the Son of God,
and now we hear these strange words about leaving us, about dying. We do not
understand your teaching. Are you speaking to us in parables? We pray you to
speak to us directly and in undisguised form."

In answer to Andrew, Jesus said: "My brethren, it is because you have confessed
that I am the Son of God that I am constrained to begin to unfold to you the
truth about the end of the bestowal of the Son of Man on earth. You insist on
clinging to the belief that I am the Messiah, and you will not abandon the idea
that the Messiah must sit upon a throne in Jerusalem; wherefore do I persist in
telling you that the Son of Man must presently go to Jerusalem, suffer many
things, be rejected by the scribes, the elders, and the chief priests, and
after all this be killed and raised from the dead. And I speak not a parable to
you; I speak the truth to you that you may be prepared for these events when

                               top of page - 1760

they suddenly come upon us." And while he was yet speaking, Simon Peter,
rushing impetuously toward him, laid his hand upon the Master's shoulder and
said: "Master, be it far from us to contend with you, but I declare that these
things shall never happen to you."

Peter spoke thus because he loved Jesus; but the Master's human nature
recognized in these words of well-meant affection the subtle suggestion of
temptation that he change his policy of pursuing to the end his earth bestowal
in accordance with the will of his Paradise Father. And it was because he
detected the danger of permitting the suggestions of even his affectionate and
loyal friends to dissuade him, that he turned upon Peter and the other
apostles, saying: "Get you behind me. You savor of the spirit of the adversary,
the tempter. When you talk in this manner, you are not on my side but rather on
the side of our enemy. In this way do you make your love for me a stumbling
block to my doing the Father's will. Mind not the ways of men but rather the
will of God."

After they had recovered from the first shock of Jesus' stinging rebuke, and
before they resumed their journey, the Master spoke further: "If any man would
come after me, let him disregard himself, take up his responsibilities daily,
and follow me. For whosoever would save his life selfishly, shall lose it, but
whosoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel's, shall save it. What does
it profit a man to gain the whole world and lose his own soul? What would a man
give in exchange for eternal life? Be not ashamed of me and my words in this
sinful and hypocritical generation, even as I will not be ashamed to
acknowledge you when in glory I appear before my Father in the presence of all
the celestial hosts. Nevertheless, many of you now standing before me shall not
taste death till you see this kingdom of God come with power."

And thus did Jesus make plain to the twelve the painful and conflicting path
which they must tread if they would follow him. What a shock these words were
to these Galilean fishermen who persisted in dreaming of an earthly kingdom
with positions of honor for themselves! But their loyal hearts were stirred by
this courageous appeal, and not one of them was minded to forsake him. Jesus
was not sending them alone into the conflict; he was leading them. He asked
only that they bravely follow.

Slowly the twelve were grasping the idea that Jesus was telling them something
about the possibility of his dying. They only vaguely comprehended what he said
about his death, while his statement about rising from the dead utterly failed
to register in their minds. As the days passed, Peter, James, and John,
recalling their experience upon the mount of the transfiguration, arrived at a
fuller understanding of certain of these matters.

In all the association of the twelve with their Master, only a few times did
they see that flashing eye and hear such swift words of rebuke as were
administered to Peter and the rest of them on this occasion. Jesus had always
been patient with their human shortcomings, but not so when faced by an
impending threat against the program of implicitly carrying out his Father's
will regarding the remainder of his earth career. The apostles were literally
stunned; they were amazed and horrified. They could not find words to express
their sorrow. Slowly they began to realize what the Master must endure, and
that they must go through these experiences with him, but they did not awaken
to the reality of these coming events until long after these early hints of the
impending tragedy of his latter days.

                               top of page - 1761

In silence Jesus and the twelve started for their camp at Magadan Park, going
by way of Capernaum. As the afternoon wore on, though they did not converse
with Jesus, they talked much among themselves while Andrew talked with the
Master.

8. AT PETER'S HOUSE

Entering Capernaum at twilight, they went by unfrequented thoroughfares
directly to the home of Simon Peter for their evening meal. While David Zebedee
made ready to take them across the lake, they lingered at Simon's house, and
Jesus, looking up at Peter and the other apostles, asked: "As you walked along
together this afternoon, what was it that you talked about so earnestly among
yourselves?" The apostles held their peace because many of them had continued
the discussion begun at Mount Hermon as to what positions they were to have in
the coming kingdom; who should be the greatest, and so on. Jesus, knowing what
it was that occupied their thoughts that day, beckoned to one of Peter's little
ones and, setting the child down among them, said: "Verily, verily, I say to
you, except you turn about and become more like this child, you will make
little progress in the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever shall humble himself and
become as this little one, the same shall become greatest in the kingdom of
heaven. And whoso receives such a little one receives me. And they who receive
me receive also Him who sent me. If you would be first in the kingdom, seek to
minister these good truths to your brethren in the flesh. But whosoever causes
one of these little ones to stumble, it would be better for him if a millstone
were hanged about his neck and he were cast into the sea. If the things you do
with your hands, or the things you see with your eyes give offense in the
progress of the kingdom, sacrifice these cherished idols, for it is better to
enter the kingdom minus many of the beloved things of life rather than to cling
to these idols and find yourself shut out of the kingdom. But most of all, see
that you despise not one of these little ones, for their angels do always
behold the faces of the heavenly hosts."

When Jesus had finished speaking, they entered the boat and sailed across to
Magadan.

                               top of page - 1762

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³        At        ³   The Decapolis   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³ Caesarea-phi...  ³       T...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
