         Urantia Book Paper 163 Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
           To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Paper 163 Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

A FEW days after the return of Jesus and the twelve to Magadan from Jerusalem,
Abner and a group of some fifty disciples arrived from Bethlehem. At this time
there were also assembled at Magadan Camp the evangelistic corps, the women's
corps, and about one hundred and fifty other true and tried disciples from all
parts of Palestine. After devoting a few days to visiting and the
reorganization of the camp, Jesus and the twelve began a course of intensive
training for this special group of believers, and from this well-trained and
experienced aggregation of disciples the Master subsequently chose the seventy
teachers and sent them forth to proclaim the gospel of the kingdom. This
regular instruction began on Friday, November 4, and continued until Sabbath,
November 19.

Jesus gave a talk to this company each morning. Peter taught methods of public
preaching; Nathaniel instructed them in the art of teaching; Thomas explained
how to answer questions; while Matthew directed the organization of their group
finances. The other apostles also participated in this training in accordance
with their special experience and natural talents.

1. ORDINATION OF THE SEVENTY

The seventy were ordained by Jesus on Sabbath afternoon, November 19, at the
Magadan Camp, and Abner was placed at the head of these gospel preachers and
teachers. This corps of seventy consisted of Abner and ten of the former
apostles of John, fifty-one of the earlier evangelists, and eight other
disciples who had distinguished themselves in the service of the kingdom.

About two o'clock on this Sabbath afternoon, between showers of rain, a company
of believers, augmented by the arrival of David and the majority of his
messenger corps and numbering over four hundred, assembled on the shore of the
lake of Galilee to witness the ordination of the seventy.

Before Jesus laid his hands upon the heads of the seventy to set them apart as
gospel messengers, addressing them, he said: "The harvest is indeed plenteous,
but the laborers are few; therefore I exhort all of you to pray that the Lord
of the harvest will send still other laborers into his harvest. I am about to
set you apart as messengers of the kingdom; I am about to send you to Jew and
gentile as lambs among wolves. As you go your ways, two and two, I instruct you
to carry neither purse nor extra clothing, for you go forth on this first
mission for only a short season. Salute no man by the way, attend only to your
work. Whenever you go to stay at a home, first say: Peace be to this household.
If those who love peace live therein, you shall abide there; if not, then shall
you depart. And having selected this home, remain there for your stay in that
city, eating and

                               top of page - 1801

drinking whatever is set before you. And you do this because the laborer is
worthy of his sustenance. Move not from house to house because a better lodging
may be offered. Remember, as you go forth proclaiming peace on earth and good
will among men, you must contend with bitter and self-deceived enemies;
therefore be as wise as serpents while you are also as harmless as doves.

"And everywhere you go, preach, saying, `The kingdom of heaven is at hand,' and
minister to all who may be sick in either mind or body. Freely you have
received of the good things of the kingdom; freely give. If the people of any
city receive you, they shall find an abundant entrance into the Father's
kingdom; but if the people of any city refuse to receive this gospel, still
shall you proclaim your message as you depart from that unbelieving community,
saying, even as you leave, to those who reject your teaching: `Notwithstanding
you reject the truth, it remains that the kingdom of God has come near you.' He
who hears you hears me. And he who hears me hears Him who sent me. He who
rejects your gospel message rejects me. And he who rejects me rejects Him who
sent me."

When Jesus had thus spoken to the seventy, he began with Abner and, as they
knelt in a circle about him, laid his hands upon the head of every man.

Early the next morning Abner sent the seventy messengers into all the cities of
Galilee, Samaria, and Judea. And these thirty-five couples went forth preaching
and teaching for about six weeks, all of them returning to the new camp near
Pella, in Perea, on Friday, December 30.

2. THE RICH YOUNG MAN AND OTHERS

Over fifty disciples who sought ordination and appointment to membership in the
seventy were rejected by the committee appointed by Jesus to select these
candidates. This committee consisted of Andrew, Abner, and the acting head of
the evangelistic corps. In all cases where this committee of three were not
unanimous in agreement, they brought the candidate to Jesus, and while the
Master never rejected a single person who craved ordination as a gospel
messenger, there were more than a dozen who, when they had talked with Jesus,
no more desired to become gospel messengers.

One earnest disciple came to Jesus, saying: "Master, I would be one of your new
apostles, but my father is very old and near death; could I be permitted to
return home to bury him?" To this man Jesus said: "My son, the foxes have
holes, and the birds of heaven have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to
lay his head. You are a faithful disciple, and you can remain such while you
return home to minister to your loved ones, but not so with my gospel
messengers. They have forsaken all to follow me and proclaim the kingdom. If
you would be an ordained teacher, you must let others bury the dead while you
go forth to publish the good news." And this man went away in great
disappointment.

Another disciple came to the Master and said: "I would become an ordained
messenger, but I would like to go to my home for a short while to comfort my
family." And Jesus replied: "If you would be ordained, you must be willing to
forsake all. The gospel messengers cannot have divided affections. No man,
having put his hand to the plough, if he turns back, is worthy to become a
messenger of the kingdom."

Then Andrew brought to Jesus a certain rich young man who was a devout
believer, and who desired to receive ordination. This young man, Matadormus,

                               top of page - 1802

was a member of the Jerusalem Sanhedrin; he had heard Jesus teach and had been
subsequently instructed in the gospel of the kingdom by Peter and the other
apostles. Jesus talked with Matadormus concerning the requirements of
ordination and requested that he defer decision until after he had thought more
fully about the matter. Early the next morning, as Jesus was going for a walk,
this young man accosted him and said: "Master, I would know from you the
assurances of eternal life. Seeing that I have observed all the commandments
from my youth, I would like to know what more I must do to gain eternal life?"
In answer to this question Jesus said: "If you keep all the commandments--do
not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do
not defraud, honor your parents--you do well, but salvation is the reward of
faith, not merely of works. Do you believe this gospel of the kingdom?" And
Matadormus answered: "Yes, Master, I do believe everything you and your
apostles have taught me." And Jesus said, "Then are you indeed my disciple and
a child of the kingdom."

Then said the young man: "But, Master, I am not content to be your disciple; I
would be one of your new messengers." When Jesus heard this, he looked down
upon him with a great love and said: "I will have you to be one of my
messengers if you are willing to pay the price, if you will supply the one
thing which you lack." Matadormus replied: "Master, I will do anything if I may
be allowed to follow you." Jesus, kissing the kneeling young man on the
forehead, said: "If you would be my messenger, go and sell all that you have
and, when you have bestowed the proceeds upon the poor or upon your brethren,
come and follow me, and you shall have treasure in the kingdom of heaven."

When Matadormus heard this, his countenance fell. He arose and went away
sorrowful, for he had great possessions. This wealthy young Pharisee had been
raised to believe that wealth was the token of God's favor. Jesus knew that he
was not free from the love of himself and his riches. The Master wanted to
deliver him from the love of wealth, not necessarily from the wealth. While the
disciples of Jesus did not part with all their worldly goods, the apostles and
the seventy did. Matadormus desired to be one of the seventy new messengers,
and that was the reason for Jesus' requiring him to part with all of his
temporal possessions.

Almost every human being has some one thing which is held on to as a pet evil,
and which the entrance into the kingdom of heaven requires as a part of the
price of admission. If Matadormus had parted with his wealth, it probably would
have been put right back into his hands for administration as treasurer of the
seventy. For later on, after the establishment of the church at Jerusalem, he
did obey the Master's injunction, although it was then too late to enjoy
membership in the seventy, and he became the treasurer of the Jerusalem church,
of which James the Lord's brother in the flesh was the head.

Thus always it was and forever will be: Men must arrive at their own decisions.
There is a certain range of the freedom of choice which mortals may exercise.
The forces of the spiritual world will not coerce man; they allow him to go the
way of his own choosing.

Jesus foresaw that Matadormus, with his riches, could not possibly become an
ordained associate of men who had forsaken all for the gospel; at the same
time, he saw that, without his riches, he would become the ultimate leader of
all of them. But, like Jesus' own brethren, he never became great in the
kingdom

                               top of page - 1803

because he deprived himself of that intimate and personal association with the
Master which might have been his experience had he been willing to do at this
time the very thing which Jesus asked, and which, several years subsequently,
he actually did.

Riches have nothing directly to do with entrance into the kingdom of heaven,
but the love of wealth does. The spiritual loyalties of the kingdom are
incompatible with servility to materialistic mammon. Man may not share his
supreme loyalty to a spiritual ideal with a material devotion.

Jesus never taught that it was wrong to have wealth. He required only the
twelve and the seventy to dedicate all of their worldly possessions to the
common cause. Even then, he provided for the profitable liquidation of their
property, as in the case of the Apostle Matthew. Jesus many times advised his
well-to-do disciples as he taught the rich man of Rome. The Master regarded the
wise investment of excess earnings as a legitimate form of insurance against
future and unavoidable adversity. When the apostolic treasury was overflowing,
Judas put funds on deposit to be used subsequently when they might suffer
greatly from a diminution of income. This Judas did after consultation with
Andrew. Jesus never personally had anything to do with the apostolic finances
except in the disbursement of alms. But there was one economic abuse which he
many times condemned, and that was the unfair exploitation of the weak,
unlearned, and less fortunate of men by their strong, keen, and more
intelligent fellows. Jesus declared that such inhuman treatment of men, women,
and children was incompatible with the ideals of the brotherhood of the kingdom
of heaven.

3. THE DISCUSSION ABOUT WEALTH

By the time Jesus had finished talking with Matadormus, Peter and a number of
the apostles had gathered about him, and as the rich young man was departing,
Jesus turned around to face the apostles and said: "You see how difficult it is
for those who have riches to enter fully into the kingdom of God! Spiritual
worship cannot be shared with material devotions; no man can serve two masters.
You have a saying that it is `easier for a camel to go through the eye of a
needle than for the heathen to inherit eternal life.' And I declare that it is
as easy for this camel to go through the needle's eye as for these
self-satisfied rich ones to enter the kingdom of heaven."

When Peter and the apostles heard these words, they were astonished
exceedingly, so much so that Peter said: "Who then, Lord, can be saved? Shall
all who have riches be kept out of the kingdom?" And Jesus replied: "No, Peter,
but all who put their trust in riches shall hardly enter into the spiritual
life that leads to eternal progress. But even then, much which is impossible to
man is not beyond the reach of the Father in heaven; rather should we recognize
that with God all things are possible."

As they went off by themselves, Jesus was grieved that Matadormus did not
remain with them, for he greatly loved him. And when they had walked down by
the lake, they sat there beside the water, and Peter, speaking for the twelve
(who were all present by this time), said: "We are troubled by your words to
the rich young man. Shall we require those who would follow you to give up all
their worldly goods?" And Jesus said: "No, Peter, only those who would become
apostles, and who desire to live with me as you do and as one family. But the
Father requires that the affections of his children be pure and undivided.
What-

                               top of page - 1804

ever thing or person comes between you and the love of the truths of the
kingdom, must be surrendered. If one's wealth does not invade the precincts of
the soul, it is of no consequence in the spiritual life of those who would
enter the kingdom."

And then said Peter, "But, Master, we have left everything to follow you, what
then shall we have?" And Jesus spoke to all of the twelve: "Verily, verily, I
say to you, there is no man who has left wealth, home, wife, brethren, parents,
or children for my sake and for the sake of the kingdom of heaven who shall not
receive manifold more in this world, perhaps with some persecutions, and in the
world to come eternal life. But many who are first shall be last, while the
last shall often be first. The Father deals with his creatures in accordance
with their needs and in obedience to his just laws of merciful and loving
consideration for the welfare of a universe.

"The kingdom of heaven is like a householder who was a large employer of men,
and who went out early in the morning to hire laborers to work in his vineyard.
When he had agreed with the laborers to pay them a denarius a day, he sent them
into the vineyard. Then he went out about nine o'clock, and seeing others
standing in the market place idle, he said to them: `Go you also to work in my
vineyard, and whatsoever is right I will pay you.' And they went at once to
work. Again he went out about twelve and about three and did likewise. And
going to the market place about five in the afternoon, he found still others
standing idle, and he inquired of them, `Why do you stand here idle all the
day?' And the men answered, `Because nobody has hired us.' Then said the
householder: `Go you also to work in my vineyard, and whatever is right I will
pay you.'

"When evening came, this owner of the vineyard said to his steward: `Call the
laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last hired and ending
with the first.' When those who were hired about five o'clock came, they
received a denarius each, and so it was with each of the other laborers. When
the men who were hired at the beginning of the day saw how the later comers
were paid, they expected to receive more than the amount agreed upon. But like
the others every man received only a denarius. And when each had received his
pay, they complained to the householder, saying: `These men who were hired last
worked only one hour, and yet you have paid them the same as us who have borne
the burden of the day in the scorching sun.'

"Then answered the householder: `My friends, I do you no wrong. Did not each of
you agree to work for a denarius a day? Take now that which is yours and go
your way, for it is my desire to give to those who came last as much as I have
given to you. Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with my own? or do you
begrudge my generosity because I desire to be good and to show mercy?'"

4. FAREWELL TO THE SEVENTY

It was a stirring time about the Magadan Camp the day the seventy went forth on
their first mission. Early that morning, in his last talk with the seventy,
Jesus placed emphasis on the following:

1. The gospel of the kingdom must be proclaimed to all the world, to gentile as
well as to Jew.

2. While ministering to the sick, refrain from teaching the expectation of
miracles.

                               top of page - 1805

3. Proclaim a spiritual brotherhood of the sons of God, not an outward kingdom
of worldly power and material glory.

4. Avoid loss of time through overmuch social visiting and other trivialities
which might detract from wholehearted devotion to preaching the gospel.

5. If the first house to be selected for a headquarters proves to be a worthy
home, abide there throughout the sojourn in that city.

6. Make clear to all faithful believers that the time for an open break with
the religious leaders of the Jews at Jerusalem has now come.

7. Teach that man's whole duty is summed up in this one commandment: Love the
Lord your God with all your mind and soul and your neighbor as yourself. (This
they were to teach as man's whole duty in place of the 613 rules of living
expounded by the Pharisees.)

When Jesus had talked thus to the seventy in the presence of all the apostles
and disciples, Simon Peter took them off by themselves and preached to them
their ordination sermon, which was an elaboration of the Master's charge given
at the time he laid his hands upon them and set them apart as messengers of the
kingdom. Peter exhorted the seventy to cherish in their experience the
following virtues:

1. Consecrated devotion. To pray always for more laborers to be sent forth into
the gospel harvest. He explained that, when one so prays, he will the more
likely say, "Here am I; send me." He admonished them to neglect not their daily
worship.

2. True courage. He warned them that they would encounter hostility and be
certain to meet with persecution. Peter told them their mission was no
undertaking for cowards and advised those who were afraid to step out before
they started. But none withdrew.

3. Faith and trust. They must go forth on this short mission wholly unprovided
for; they must trust the Father for food and shelter and all other things
needful.

4. Zeal and initiative. They must be possessed with zeal and intelligent
enthusiasm; they must attend strictly to their Master's business. Oriental
salutation was a lengthy and elaborate ceremony; therefore had they been
instructed to "salute no man by the way," which was a common method of
exhorting one to go about his business without the waste of time. It had
nothing to do with the matter of friendly greeting.

5. Kindness and courtesy. The Master had instructed them to avoid unnecessary
waste of time in social ceremonies, but he enjoined courtesy toward all with
whom they should come in contact. They were to show every kindness to those who
might entertain them in their homes. They were strictly warned against leaving
a modest home to be entertained in a more comfortable or influential one.

6. Ministry to the sick. The seventy were charged by Peter to search out the
sick in mind and body and to do everything in their power to bring about the
alleviation or cure of their maladies.

And when they had been thus charged and instructed, they started out, two and
two, on their mission in Galilee, Samaria, and Judea.

                               top of page - 1806

Although the Jews had a peculiar regard for the number seventy, sometimes
considering the nations of heathendom as being seventy in number, and although
these seventy messengers were to go with the gospel to all peoples, still as
far as we can discern, it was only coincidental that this group happened to
number just seventy. Certain it was that Jesus would have accepted no less than
half a dozen others, but they were unwilling to pay the price of forsaking
wealth and families.

5. MOVING THE CAMP TO PELLA

Jesus and the twelve now prepared to establish their last headquarters in
Perea, near Pella, where the Master was baptized in the Jordan. The last ten
days of November were spent in council at Magadan, and on Tuesday, December 6,
the entire company of almost three hundred started out at daybreak with all
their effects to lodge that night near Pella by the river. This was the same
site, by the spring, that John the Baptist had occupied with his camp several
years before.

After the breaking up of the Magadan Camp, David Zebedee returned to Bethsaida
and began immediately to curtail the messenger service. The kingdom was taking
on a new phase. Daily, pilgrims arrived from all parts of Palestine and even
from remote regions of the Roman Empire. Believers occasionally came from
Mesopotamia and from the lands east of the Tigris. Accordingly, on Sunday,
December 18, David, with the help of his messenger corps, loaded on to the pack
animals the camp equipage, then stored in his father's house, with which he had
formerly conducted the camp of Bethsaida by the lake. Bidding farewell to
Bethsaida for the time being, he proceeded down the lake shore and along the
Jordan to a point about one-half mile north of the apostolic camp; and in less
than a week he was prepared to offer hospitality to almost fifteen hundred
pilgrim visitors. The apostolic camp could accommodate about five hundred. This
was the rainy season in Palestine, and these accommodations were required to
take care of the ever-increasing number of inquirers, mostly earnest, who came
into Perea to see Jesus and to hear his teaching.

David did all this on his own initiative, though he had taken counsel with
Philip and Matthew at Magadan. He employed the larger part of his former
messenger corps as his helpers in conducting this camp; he now used less than
twenty men on regular messenger duty. Near the end of December and before the
return of the seventy, almost eight hundred visitors were gathered about the
Master, and they found lodging in David's camp.

6. THE RETURN OF THE SEVENTY

On Friday, December 30, while Jesus was away in the near-by hills with Peter,
James, and John, the seventy messengers were arriving by couples, accompanied
by numerous believers, at the Pella headquarters. All seventy were assembled at
the teaching site about five o'clock when Jesus returned to the camp. The
evening meal was delayed for more than an hour while these enthusiasts for the
gospel of the kingdom related their experiences. David's messengers had brought
much of this news to the apostles during previous weeks, but it was truly
inspiring to hear these newly ordained teachers of the gospel personally tell
how their message had been received by hungry Jews and gentiles. At last Jesus

                               top of page - 1807

was able to see men going out to spread the good news without his personal
presence. The Master now knew that he could leave this world without seriously
hindering the progress of the kingdom.

When the seventy related how "even the devils were subject" to them, they
referred to the wonderful cures they had wrought in the cases of victims of
nervous disorders. Nevertheless, there had been a few cases of real spirit
possession relieved by these ministers, and referring to these, Jesus said: "It
is not strange that these disobedient minor spirits should be subject to you,
seeing that I beheld Satan falling as lightning from heaven. But rejoice not so
much over this, for I declare to you that, as soon as I return to my Father, we
will send forth our spirits into the very minds of men so that no more can
these few lost spirits enter the minds of unfortunate mortals. I rejoice with
you that you have power with men, but be not lifted up because of this
experience but the rather rejoice that your names are written on the rolls of
heaven, and that you are thus to go forward in an endless career of spiritual
conquest."

And it was at this time, just before partaking of the evening meal, that Jesus
experienced one of those rare moments of emotional ecstasy which his followers
had occasionally witnessed. He said: "I thank you, my Father, Lord of heaven
and earth, that, while this wonderful gospel was hidden from the wise and
self-righteous, the spirit has revealed these spiritual glories to these
children of the kingdom. Yes, my Father, it must have been pleasing in your
sight to do this, and I rejoice to know that the good news will spread to all
the world even after I shall have returned to you and the work which you have
given me to perform. I am mightily moved as I realize you are about to deliver
all authority into my hands, that only you really know who I am, and that only
I really know you, and those to whom I have revealed you. And when I have
finished this revelation to my brethren in the flesh, I will continue the
revelation to your creatures on high."

When Jesus had thus spoken to the Father, he turned aside to speak to his
apostles and ministers: "Blessed are the eyes which see and the ears which hear
these things. Let me say to you that many prophets and many of the great men of
the past ages have desired to behold what you now see, but it was not granted
them. And many generations of the children of light yet to come will, when they
hear of these things, envy you who have heard and seen them."

Then, speaking to all the disciples, he said: "You have heard how many cities
and villages have received the good news of the kingdom, and how my ministers
and teachers have been received by both the Jew and the gentile. And blessed
indeed are these communities which have elected to believe the gospel of the
kingdom. But woe upon the light-rejecting inhabitants of Chorazin,
Bethsaida-Julias, and Capernaum, the cities which did not well receive these
messengers. I declare that, if the mighty works done in these places had been
done in Tyre and Sidon, the people of these so-called heathen cities would have
long since repented in sackcloth and ashes. It shall indeed be more tolerable
for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment."

The next day being the Sabbath, Jesus went apart with the seventy and said to
them: "I did indeed rejoice with you when you came back bearing the good
tidings of the reception of the gospel of the kingdom by so many people
scattered throughout Galilee, Samaria, and Judea. But why were you so
surprisingly elated? Did you not expect that your message would manifest power
in its delivery? Did you go forth with so little faith in this gospel that you
come back

                               top of page - 1808

in surprise at its effectiveness? And now, while I would not quench your spirit
of rejoicing, I would sternly warn you against the subtleties of pride,
spiritual pride. If you could understand the downfall of Lucifer, the
iniquitous one, you would solemnly shun all forms of spiritual pride.

"You have entered upon this great work of teaching mortal man that he is a son
of God. I have shown you the way; go forth to do your duty and be not weary in
well doing. To you and to all who shall follow in your steps down through the
ages, let me say: I always stand near, and my invitation-call is, and ever
shall be, Come to me all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you
rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am true and loyal, and you
shall find spiritual rest for your souls."

And they found the Master's words to be true when they put his promises to the
test. And since that day countless thousands also have tested and proved the
surety of these same promises.

7. PREPARATION FOR THE LAST MISSION

The next few days were busy times in the Pella camp; preparations for the
Perean mission were being completed. Jesus and his associates were about to
enter upon their last mission, the three months' tour of all Perea, which
terminated only upon the Master's entering Jerusalem for his final labors on
earth. Throughout this period the headquarters of Jesus and the twelve apostles
was maintained here at the Pella camp.

It was no longer necessary for Jesus to go abroad to teach the people. They now
came to him in increasing numbers each week and from all parts, not only from
Palestine but from the whole Roman world and from the Near East. Although the
Master participated with the seventy in the tour of Perea, he spent much of his
time at the Pella camp, teaching the multitude and instructing the twelve.
Throughout this three months' period at least ten of the apostles remained with
Jesus.

The women's corps also prepared to go out, two and two, with the seventy to
labor in the larger cities of Perea. This original group of twelve women had
recently trained a larger corps of fifty women in the work of home visitation
and in the art of ministering to the sick and the afflicted. Perpetua, Simon
Peter's wife, became a member of this new division of the women's corps and was
intrusted with the leadership of the enlarged women's work under Abner. After
Pentecost she remained with her illustrious husband, accompanying him on all of
his missionary tours; and on the day Peter was crucified in Rome, she was fed
to the wild beasts in the arena. This new women's corps also had as members the
wives of Philip and Matthew and the mother of James and John.

The work of the kingdom now prepared to enter upon its terminal phase under the
personal leadership of Jesus. And this present phase was one of spiritual depth
in contrast with the miracle-minded and wonder-seeking multitudes who followed
after the Master during the former days of popularity in Galilee. However,
there were still any number of his followers who were material-minded, and who
failed to grasp the truth that the kingdom of heaven is the spiritual
brotherhood of man founded on the eternal fact of the universal fatherhood of
God.

                               top of page - 1809

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   At The Feast   ³   At The Feast    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Of...       ³       Of...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
