              Urantia Book Paper 164 At The Feast Of Dedication
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
           To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Paper 164 At The Feast Of Dedication

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

AS THE camp at Pella was being established, Jesus, taking with him Nathaniel
and Thomas, secretly went up to Jerusalem to attend the feast of the
dedication. Not until they passed over the Jordan at the Bethany ford, did the
two apostles become aware that their Master was going on to Jerusalem. When
they perceived that he really intended to be present at the feast of
dedication, they remonstrated with him most earnestly, and using every sort of
argument, they sought to dissuade him. But their efforts were of no avail;
Jesus was determined to visit Jerusalem. To all their entreaties and to all
their warnings emphasizing the folly and danger of placing himself in the hands
of the Sanhedrin, he would reply only, "I would give these teachers in Israel
another opportunity to see the light, before my hour comes."

On they went toward Jerusalem, the two apostles continuing to express their
feelings of fear and to voice their doubts about the wisdom of such an
apparently presumptuous undertaking. They reached Jericho about half past four
and prepared to lodge there for the night.

1. STORY OF THE GOOD SAMARITAN

That evening a considerable company gathered about Jesus and the two apostles
to ask questions, many of which the apostles answered, while others the Master
discussed. In the course of the evening a certain lawyer, seeking to entangle
Jesus in a compromising disputation, said: "Teacher, I would like to ask you
just what I should do to inherit eternal life?" Jesus answered, "What is
written in the law and the prophets; how do you read the Scriptures?" The
lawyer, knowing the teachings of both Jesus and the Pharisees, answered: "To
love the Lord God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and your
neighbor as yourself." Then said Jesus: "You have answered right; this, if you
really do, will lead to life everlasting."

But the lawyer was not wholly sincere in asking this question, and desiring to
justify himself while also hoping to embarrass Jesus, he ventured to ask still
another question. Drawing a little closer to the Master, he said, "But,
Teacher, I should like you to tell me just who is my neighbor?" The lawyer
asked this question hoping to entrap Jesus into making some statement that
would contravene the Jewish law which defined one's neighbor as "the children
of one's people." The Jews looked upon all others as "gentile dogs." This
lawyer was somewhat familiar with Jesus' teachings and therefore well knew that
the Master thought differently; thus he hoped to lead him into saying something
which could be construed as an attack upon the sacred law.

                               top of page - 1810

But Jesus discerned the lawyer's motive, and instead of falling into the trap,
he proceeded to tell his hearers a story, a story which would be fully
appreciated by any Jericho audience. Said Jesus: "A certain man was going down
from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell into the hands of cruel brigands, who
robbed him, stripped him and beat him, and departing, left him half dead. Very
soon, by chance, a certain priest was going down that way, and when he came
upon the wounded man, seeing his sorry plight, he passed by on the other side
of the road. And in like manner a Levite also, when he came along and saw the
man, passed by on the other side. Now, about this time, a certain Samaritan, as
he journeyed down to Jericho, came across this wounded man; and when he saw how
he had been robbed and beaten, he was moved with compassion, and going over to
him, he bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine, and setting the man upon
his own beast, brought him here to the inn and took care of him. And on the
morrow he took out some money and, giving it to the host, said: `Take good care
of my friend, and if the expense is more, when I come back again, I will repay
you.' Now let me ask you: Which of these three turned out to be the neighbor of
him who fell among the robbers?" And when the lawyer perceived that he had
fallen into his own snare, he answered, "He who showed mercy on him." And Jesus
said, "Go and do likewise."

The lawyer answered, "He who showed mercy," that he might refrain from even
speaking that odious word, Samaritan. The lawyer was forced to give the very
answer to the question, "Who is my neighbor?" which Jesus wished given, and
which, if Jesus had so stated, would have directly involved him in the charge
of heresy. Jesus not only confounded the dishonest lawyer, but he told his
hearers a story which was at the same time a beautiful admonition to all his
followers and a stunning rebuke to all Jews regarding their attitude toward the
Samaritans. And this story has continued to promote brotherly love among all
who have subsequently believed the gospel of Jesus.

2. AT JERUSALEM

Jesus had attended the feast of tabernacles that he might proclaim the gospel
to the pilgrims from all parts of the empire; he now went up to the feast of
the dedication for just one purpose: to give the Sanhedrin and the Jewish
leaders another chance to see the light. The principal event of these few days
in Jerusalem occurred on Friday night at the home of Nicodemus. Here were
gathered together some twenty-five Jewish leaders who believed Jesus' teaching.
Among this group were fourteen men who were then, or had recently been, members
of the Sanhedrin. This meeting was attended by Eber, Matadormus, and Joseph of
Arimathea.

On this occasion Jesus' hearers were all learned men, and both they and his two
apostles were amazed at the breadth and depth of the remarks which the Master
made to this distinguished group. Not since the times when he had taught in
Alexandria, Rome, and in the islands of the Mediterranean, had he exhibited
such learning and shown such a grasp of the affairs of men, both secular and
religious.

When this little meeting broke up, all went away mystified by the Master's
personality, charmed by his gracious manner, and in love with the man. They had
sought to advise Jesus concerning his desire to win the remaining members of
the Sanhedrin. The Master listened attentively, but silently, to all their

                               top of page - 1811

proposals. He well knew none of their plans would work. He surmised that the
majority of the Jewish leaders never would accept the gospel of the kingdom;
nevertheless, he gave them all this one more chance to choose. But when he went
forth that night, with Nathaniel and Thomas, to lodge on the Mount of Olives,
he had not yet decided upon the method he would pursue in bringing his work
once more to the notice of the Sanhedrin.

That night Nathaniel and Thomas slept little; they were too much amazed by what
they had heard at Nicodemus's house. They thought much over the final remark of
Jesus regarding the offer of the former and present members of the Sanhedrin to
go with him before the seventy. The Master said: "No, my brethren, it would be
to no purpose. You would multiply the wrath to be visited upon your own heads,
but you would not in the least mitigate the hatred which they bear me. Go, each
of you, about the Father's business as the spirit leads you while I once more
bring the kingdom to their notice in the manner which my Father may direct."

3. HEALING THE BLIND BEGGAR

The next morning the three went over to Martha's home at Bethany for breakfast
and then went immediately into Jerusalem. This Sabbath morning, as Jesus and
his two apostles drew near the temple, they encountered a well-known beggar, a
man who had been born blind, sitting at his usual place. Although these
mendicants did not solicit or receive alms on the Sabbath day, they were
permitted thus to sit in their usual places. Jesus paused and looked upon the
beggar. As he gazed upon this man who had been born blind, the idea came into
his mind as to how he would once more bring his mission on earth to the notice
of the Sanhedrin and the other Jewish leaders and religious teachers.

As the Master stood there before the blind man, engrossed in deep thought,
Nathaniel, pondering the possible cause of this man's blindness, asked:
"Master, who did sin, this man or his parents, that he should be born blind?"

The rabbis taught that all such cases of blindness from birth were caused by
sin. Not only were children conceived and born in sin, but a child could be
born blind as a punishment for some specific sin committed by its father. They
even taught that a child itself might sin before it was born into the world.
They also taught that such defects could be caused by some sin or other
indulgence of the mother while carrying the child.

There was, throughout all these regions, a lingering belief in reincarnation.
The older Jewish teachers, together with Plato, Philo, and many of the Essenes,
tolerated the theory that men may reap in one incarnation what they have sown
in a previous existence; thus in one life they were believed to be expiating
the sins committed in preceding lives. The Master found it difficult to make
men believe that their souls had not had previous existences.

However, inconsistent as it seems, while such blindness was supposed to be the
result of sin, the Jews held that it was meritorious in a high degree to give
alms to these blind beggars. It was the custom of these blind men constantly to
chant to the passers-by, "O tenderhearted, gain merit by assisting the blind."

Jesus entered into the discussion of this case with Nathaniel and Thomas, not
only because he had already decided to use this blind man as the means of that
day bringing his mission once more prominently to the notice of the Jewish

                               top of page - 1812

leaders, but also because he always encouraged his apostles to seek for the
true causes of all phenomena, natural or spiritual. He had often warned them to
avoid the common tendency to assign spiritual causes to commonplace physical
events.

Jesus decided to use this beggar in his plans for that day's work, but before
doing anything for the blind man, Josiah by name, he proceeded to answer
Nathaniel's question. Said the Master: "Neither did this man sin nor his
parents that the works of God might be manifest in him. This blindness has come
upon him in the natural course of events, but we must now do the works of Him
who sent me, while it is still day, for the night will certainly come when it
will be impossible to do the work we are about to perform. When I am in the
world, I am the light of the world, but in only a little while I will not be
with you."

When Jesus had spoken, he said to Nathaniel and Thomas: "Let us create the
sight of this blind man on this Sabbath day that the scribes and Pharisees may
have the full occasion which they seek for accusing the Son of Man." Then,
stooping over, he spat on the ground and mixed the clay with the spittle, and
speaking of all this so that the blind man could hear, he went up to Josiah and
put the clay over his sightless eyes, saying: "Go, my son, wash away this clay
in the pool of Siloam, and immediately you shall receive your sight." And when
Josiah had so washed in the pool of Siloam, he returned to his friends and
family, seeing.

Having always been a beggar, he knew nothing else; so, when the first
excitement of the creation of his sight had passed, he returned to his usual
place of alms-seeking. His friends, neighbors, and all who had known him
aforetime, when they observed that he could see, all said, "Is this not Josiah
the blind beggar?" Some said it was he, while others said, "No, it is one like
him, but this man can see." But when they asked the man himself, he answered,
"I am he."

When they began to inquire of him how he was able to see, he answered them: "A
man called Jesus came by this way, and when talking about me with his friends,
he made clay with spittle, anointed my eyes, and directed that I should go and
wash in the pool of Siloam. I did what this man told me, and immediately I
received my sight. And that is only a few hours ago. I do not yet know the
meaning of much that I see." And when the people who began to gather about him
asked where they could find the strange man who had healed him, Josiah could
answer only that he did not know.

This is one of the strangest of all the Master's miracles. This man did not ask
for healing. He did not know that the Jesus who had directed him to wash at
Siloam, and who had promised him vision, was the prophet of Galilee who had
preached in Jerusalem during the feast of tabernacles. This man had little
faith that he would receive his sight, but the people of that day had great
faith in the efficacy of the spittle of a great or holy man; and from Jesus'
conversation with Nathaniel and Thomas, Josiah had concluded that his would-be
benefactor was a great man, a learned teacher or a holy prophet; accordingly he
did as Jesus directed him.

Jesus made use of the clay and the spittle and directed him to wash in the
symbolic pool of Siloam for three reasons:

1. This was not a miracle response to the individual's faith. This was a wonder
which Jesus chose to perform for a purpose of his own, but which he so arranged
that this man might derive lasting benefit therefrom.

                               top of page - 1813

2. As the blind man had not asked for healing, and since the faith he had was
slight, these material acts were suggested for the purpose of encouraging him.
He did believe in the superstition of the efficacy of spittle, and he knew the
pool of Siloam was a semisacred place. But he would hardly have gone there had
it not been necessary to wash away the clay of his anointing. There was just
enough ceremony about the transaction to induce him to act.

3. But Jesus had a third reason for resorting to these material means in
connection with this unique transaction: This was a miracle wrought purely in
obedience to his own choosing, and thereby he desired to teach his followers of
that day and all subsequent ages to refrain from despising or neglecting
material means in the healing of the sick. He wanted to teach them that they
must cease to regard miracles as the only method of curing human diseases.

Jesus gave this man his sight by miraculous working, on this Sabbath morning
and in Jerusalem near the temple, for the prime purpose of making this act an
open challenge to the Sanhedrin and all the Jewish teachers and religious
leaders. This was his way of proclaiming an open break with the Pharisees. He
was always positive in everything he did. And it was for the purpose of
bringing these matters before the Sanhedrin that Jesus brought his two apostles
to this man early in the afternoon of this Sabbath day and deliberately
provoked those discussions which compelled the Pharisees to take notice of the
miracle.

4. JOSIAH BEFORE THE SANHEDRIN

By midafternoon the healing of Josiah had raised such a discussion around the
temple that the leaders of the Sanhedrin decided to convene the council in its
usual temple meeting place. And they did this in violation of a standing rule
which forbade the meeting of the Sanhedrin on the Sabbath day. Jesus knew that
Sabbath breaking would be one of the chief charges to be brought against him
when the final test came, and he desired to be brought before the Sanhedrin for
adjudication of the charge of having healed a blind man on the Sabbath day,
when the very session of the high Jewish court sitting in judgment on him for
this act of mercy would be deliberating on these matters on the Sabbath day and
in direct violation of their own self-imposed laws.

But they did not call Jesus before them; they feared to. Instead, they sent
forthwith for Josiah. After some preliminary questioning, the spokesman for the
Sanhedrin (about fifty members being present) directed Josiah to tell them what
had happened to him. Since his healing that morning Josiah had learned from
Thomas, Nathaniel, and others that the Pharisees were angry about his healing
on the Sabbath, and that they were likely to make trouble for all concerned;
but Josiah did not yet perceive that Jesus was he who was called the Deliverer.
So, when the Pharisees questioned him, he said: "This man came along, put clay
upon my eyes, told me to go wash in Siloam, and I do now see."

One of the older Pharisees, after making a lengthy speech, said: "This man
cannot be from God because you can see that he does not observe the Sabbath. He
violates the law, first, in making the clay, then, in sending this beggar to
wash in Siloam on the Sabbath day. Such a man cannot be a teacher sent from
God."

Then one of the younger men who secretly believed in Jesus, said: "If this man
is not sent by God, how can he do these things? We know that one who is a

                               top of page - 1814

common sinner cannot perform such miracles. We all know this beggar and that he
was born blind; now he sees. Will you still say that this prophet does all
these wonders by the power of the prince of devils?" And for every Pharisee who
dared to accuse and denounce Jesus one would arise to ask entangling and
embarrassing questions, so that a serious division arose among them. The
presiding officer saw whither they were drifting, and in order to allay the
discussion, he prepared further to question the man himself. Turning to Josiah,
he said: "What do you have to say about this man, this Jesus, whom you claim
opened your eyes?" And Josiah answered, "I think he is a prophet."

The leaders were greatly troubled and, knowing not what else to do, decided to
send for Josiah's parents to learn whether he had actually been born blind.
They were loath to believe that the beggar had been healed.

It was well known about Jerusalem, not only that Jesus was denied entrance into
all synagogues, but that all who believed in his teaching were likewise cast
out of the synagogue, excommunicated from the congregation of Israel; and this
meant denial of all rights and privileges of every sort throughout all Jewry
except the right to buy the necessaries of life.

When, therefore, Josiah's parents, poor and fear-burdened souls, appeared
before the august Sanhedrin, they were afraid to speak freely. Said the
spokesman of the court: "Is this your son? and do we understand aright that he
was born blind? If this is true, how is it that he can now see?" And then
Josiah's father, seconded by his mother, answered: "We know that this is our
son, and that he was born blind, but how it is that he has come to see, or who
it was that opened his eyes, we know not. Ask him; he is of age; let him speak
for himself."

They now called Josiah up before them a second time. They were not getting
along well with their scheme of holding a formal trial, and some were beginning
to feel strange about doing this on the Sabbath; accordingly, when they
recalled Josiah, they attempted to ensnare him by a different mode of attack.
The officer of the court spoke to the former blind man, saying: "Why do you not
give God the glory for this? Why do you not tell us the whole truth about what
happened? We all know that this man is a sinner. Why do you refuse to discern
the truth? You know that both you and this man stand convicted of Sabbath
breaking. Will you not atone for your sin by acknowledging God as your healer,
if you still claim that your eyes have this day been opened?"

But Josiah was neither dumb nor lacking in humor; so he replied to the officer
of the court: "Whether this man is a sinner, I know not; but one thing I do
know--that, whereas I was blind, now I see." And since they could not entrap
Josiah, they sought further to question him, asking: "Just how did he open your
eyes? what did he actually do to you? what did he say to you? did he ask you to
believe in him?"

Josiah replied, somewhat impatiently: "I have told you exactly how it all
happened, and if you did not believe my testimony, why would you hear it again?
Would you by any chance also become his disciples?" When Josiah had thus
spoken, the Sanhedrin broke up in confusion, almost violence, for the leaders
rushed upon Josiah, angrily exclaiming: "You may talk about being this man's
disciple, but we are disciples of Moses, and we are the teachers of the laws of
God. We know that God spoke through Moses, but as for this man Jesus, we know
not whence he is."

Then Josiah, standing upon a stool, shouted abroad to all who could hear,
saying: "Hearken, you who claim to be the teachers of all Israel, while I
declare

                               top of page - 1815

to you that herein is a great marvel since you confess that you know not whence
this man is, and yet you know of a certainty, from the testimony which you have
heard, that he opened my eyes. We all know that God does not perform such works
for the ungodly; that God would do such a thing only at the request of a true
worshiper--for one who is holy and righteous. You know that not since the
beginning of the world have you ever heard of the opening of the eyes of one
who was born blind. Look, then, all of you, upon me and realize what has been
done this day in Jerusalem! I tell you, if this man were not from God, he could
not do this." And as the Sanhedrists departed in anger and confusion, they
shouted to him: "You were altogether born in sin, and do you now presume to
teach us? Maybe you were not really born blind, and even if your eyes were
opened on the Sabbath day, this was done by the power of the prince of devils."
And they went at once to the synagogue to cast out Josiah.

Josiah entered this trial with meager ideas about Jesus and the nature of his
healing. Most of the daring testimony which he so cleverly and courageously
bore before this supreme tribunal of all Israel developed in his mind as the
trial proceeded along such unfair and unjust lines.

5. TEACHING IN SOLOMON'S PORCH

All of the time this Sabbath-breaking session of the Sanhedrin was in progress
in one of the temple chambers, Jesus was walking about near at hand, teaching
the people in Solomon's Porch, hoping that he would be summoned before the
Sanhedrin where he could tell them the good news of the liberty and joy of
divine sonship in the kingdom of God. But they were afraid to send for him.
They were always disconcerted by these sudden and public appearances of Jesus
in Jerusalem. The very occasion they had so ardently sought, Jesus now gave
them, but they feared to bring him before the Sanhedrin even as a witness, and
even more they feared to arrest him.

This was midwinter in Jerusalem, and the people sought the partial shelter of
Solomon's Porch; and as Jesus lingered, the crowds asked him many questions,
and he taught them for more than two hours. Some of the Jewish teachers sought
to entrap him by publicly asking him: "How long will you hold us in suspense?
If you are the Messiah, why do you not plainly tell us?" Said Jesus: "I have
told you about myself and my Father many times, but you will not believe me.
Can you not see that the works I do in my Father's name bear witness for me?
But many of you believe not because you belong not to my fold. The teacher of
truth attracts only those who hunger for the truth and who thirst for
righteousness. My sheep hear my voice and I know them and they follow me. And
to all who follow my teaching I give eternal life; they shall never perish, and
no one shall snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given me these
children, is greater than all, so that no one is able to pluck them out of my
Father's hand. The Father and I are one." Some of the unbelieving Jews rushed
over to where they were still building the temple to pick up stones to cast at
Jesus, but the believers restrained them.

Jesus continued his teaching: "Many loving works have I shown you from the
Father, so that now would I inquire for which one of these good works do you
think to stone me?" And then answered one of the Pharisees: "For no good work
would we stone you but for blasphemy, inasmuch as you, being a man, dare to
make yourself equal with God." And Jesus answered: "You charge the

                               top of page - 1816

Son of Man with blasphemy because you refused to believe me when I declared to
you that I was sent by God. If I do not the works of God, believe me not, but
if I do the works of God, even though you believe not in me, I should think you
would believe the works. But that you may be certain of what I proclaim, let me
again assert that the Father is in me and I in the Father, and that, as the
Father dwells in me, so will I dwell in every one who believes this gospel."
And when the people heard these words, many of them rushed out to lay hands
upon the stones to cast at him, but he passed out through the temple precincts;
and meeting Nathaniel and Thomas, who had been in attendance upon the session
of the Sanhedrin, he waited with them near the temple until Josiah came from
the council chamber.

Jesus and the two apostles did not go in search of Josiah at his home until
they heard he had been cast out of the synagogue. When they came to his house,
Thomas called him out in the yard, and Jesus, speaking to him, said: "Josiah,
do you believe in the Son of God?" And Josiah answered, "Tell me who he is that
I may believe in him." And Jesus said: "You have both seen and heard him, and
it is he who now speaks to you." And Josiah said, "Lord, I believe," and
falling down, he worshiped.

When Josiah learned that he had been cast out of the synagogue, he was at first
greatly downcast, but he was much encouraged when Jesus directed that he should
immediately prepare to go with them to the camp at Pella. This simple-minded
man of Jerusalem had indeed been cast out of a Jewish synagogue, but behold the
Creator of a universe leading him forth to become associated with the spiritual
nobility of that day and generation.

And now Jesus left Jerusalem, not again to return until near the time when he
prepared to leave this world. With the two apostles and Josiah the Master went
back to Pella. And Josiah proved to be one of the recipients of the Master's
miraculous ministry who turned out fruitfully, for he became a lifelong
preacher of the gospel of the kingdom.

                               top of page - 1817

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³  Ordination Of   ³    The Perean     ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³       T...       ³      Miss...      ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
