              Urantia Book Paper 165 The Perean Mission Begins
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
           To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Paper 165 The Perean Mission Begins

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

ON TUESDAY, January 3, A.D. 30, Abner, the former chief of the twelve apostles
of John the Baptist, a Nazarite and onetime head of the Nazarite school at
Engedi, now chief of the seventy messengers of the kingdom, called his
associates together and gave them final instructions before sending them on a
mission to all of the cities and villages of Perea. This Perean mission
continued for almost three months and was the last ministry of the Master. From
these labors Jesus went directly to Jerusalem to pass through his final
experiences in the flesh. The seventy, supplemented by the periodic labors of
Jesus and the twelve apostles, worked in the following cities and towns and
some fifty additional villages: Zaphon, Gadara, Macad, Arbela, Ramath, Edrei,
Bosora, Caspin, Mispeh, Gerasa, Ragaba, Succoth, Amathus, Adam, Penuel,
Capitolias, Dion, Hatita, Gadda, Philadelphia, Jogbehah, Gilead, Beth-Nimrah,
Tyrus, Elealah, Livias, Heshbon, Callirrhoe, Beth-Peor, Shittim, Sibmah,
Medeba, Beth-Meon, Areopolis, and Aroer.

Throughout this tour of Perea the women's corps, now numbering sixty-two, took
over most of the work of ministration to the sick. This was the final period of
the development of the higher spiritual aspects of the gospel of the kingdom,
and there was, accordingly, an absence of miracle working. No other part of
Palestine was so thoroughly worked by the apostles and disciples of Jesus, and
in no other region did the better classes of citizens so generally accept the
Master's teaching.

Perea at this time was about equally gentile and Jewish, the Jews having been
generally removed from these regions during the times of Judas Maccabee. Perea
was the most beautiful and picturesque province of all Palestine. It was
generally referred to by the Jews as "the land beyond the Jordan."

Throughout this period Jesus divided his time between the camp at Pella and
trips with the twelve to assist the seventy in the various cities where they
taught and preached. Under Abner's instructions the seventy baptized all
believers, although Jesus had not so charged them.

1. AT THE PELLA CAMP

By the middle of January more than twelve hundred persons were gathered
together at Pella, and Jesus taught this multitude at least once each day when
he was in residence at the camp, usually speaking at nine o'clock in the
morning if not prevented by rain. Peter and the other apostles taught each
afternoon. The evenings Jesus reserved for the usual sessions of questions and
answers with the twelve and other advanced disciples. The evening groups
averaged about fifty.

By the middle of March, the time when Jesus began his journey toward Jerusalem,
over four thousand persons composed the large audience which heard

                               top of page - 1818

Jesus or Peter preach each morning. The Master chose to terminate his work on
earth when the interest in his message had reached a high point, the highest
point attained under this second or nonmiraculous phase of the progress of the
kingdom. While three quarters of the multitude were truth seekers, there were
also present a large number of Pharisees from Jerusalem and elsewhere, together
with many doubters and cavilers.

Jesus and the twelve apostles devoted much of their time to the multitude
assembled at the Pella camp. The twelve paid little or no attention to the
field work, only going out with Jesus to visit Abner's associates from time to
time. Abner was very familiar with the Perean district since this was the field
in which his former master, John the Baptist, had done most of his work. After
beginning the Perean mission, Abner and the seventy never returned to the Pella
camp.

2. SERMON ON THE GOOD SHEPHERD

A company of over three hundred Jerusalemites, Pharisees and others, followed
Jesus north to Pella when he hastened away from the jurisdiction of the Jewish
rulers at the ending of the feast of the dedication; and it was in the presence
of these Jewish teachers and leaders, as well as in the hearing of the twelve
apostles, that Jesus preached the sermon on the "Good Shepherd." After half an
hour of informal discussion, speaking to a group of about one hundred, Jesus
said:

"On this night I have much to tell you, and since many of you are my disciples
and some of you my bitter enemies, I will present my teaching in a parable, so
that you may each take for yourself that which finds a reception in your heart.

"Tonight, here before me are men who would be willing to die for me and for
this gospel of the kingdom, and some of them will so offer themselves in the
years to come; and here also are some of you, slaves of tradition, who have
followed me down from Jerusalem, and who, with your darkened and deluded
leaders, seek to kill the Son of Man. The life which I now live in the flesh
shall judge both of you, the true shepherds and the false shepherds. If the
false shepherd were blind, he would have no sin, but you claim that you see;
you profess to be teachers in Israel; therefore does your sin remain upon you.

"The true shepherd gathers his flock into the fold for the night in times of
danger. And when the morning has come, he enters into the fold by the door, and
when he calls, the sheep know his voice. Every shepherd who gains entrance to
the sheepfold by any other means than by the door is a thief and a robber. The
true shepherd enters the fold after the porter has opened the door for him, and
his sheep, knowing his voice, come out at his word; and when they that are his
are thus brought forth, the true shepherd goes before them; he leads the way
and the sheep follow him. His sheep follow him because they know his voice;
they will not follow a stranger. They will flee from the stranger because they
know not his voice. This multitude which is gathered about us here are like
sheep without a shepherd, but when we speak to them, they know the shepherd's
voice, and they follow after us; at least, those who hunger for truth and
thirst for righteousness do. Some of you are not of my fold; you know not my
voice, and you do not follow me. And because you are false shepherds, the sheep
know not your voice and will not follow you."

                               top of page - 1819

And when Jesus had spoken this parable, no one asked him a question. After a
time he began again to speak and went on to discuss the parable:

"You who would be the undershepherds of my Father's flocks must not only be
worthy leaders, but you must also feed the flock with good food; you are not
true shepherds unless you lead your flocks into green pastures and beside still
waters.

"And now, lest some of you too easily comprehend this parable, I will declare
that I am both the door to the Father's sheepfold and at the same time the true
shepherd of my Father's flocks. Every shepherd who seeks to enter the fold
without me shall fail, and the sheep will not hear his voice. I, with those who
minister with me, am the door. Every soul who enters upon the eternal way by
the means I have created and ordained shall be saved and will be able to go on
to the attainment of the eternal pastures of Paradise.

"But I also am the true shepherd who is willing even to lay down his life for
the sheep. The thief breaks into the fold only to steal, and to kill, and to
destroy; but I have come that you all may have life and have it more
abundantly. He who is a hireling, when danger arises, will flee and allow the
sheep to be scattered and destroyed; but the true shepherd will not flee when
the wolf comes; he will protect his flock and, if necessary, lay down his life
for his sheep. Verily, verily, I say to you, friends and enemies, I am the true
shepherd; I know my own and my own know me. I will not flee in the face of
danger. I will finish this service of the completion of my Father's will, and I
will not forsake the flock which the Father has intrusted to my keeping.

"But I have many other sheep not of this fold, and these words are true not
only of this world. These other sheep also hear and know my voice, and I have
promised the Father that they shall all be brought into one fold, one
brotherhood of the sons of God. And then shall you all know the voice of one
shepherd, the true shepherd, and shall all acknowledge the fatherhood of God.

"And so shall you know why the Father loves me and has put all of his flocks in
this domain in my hands for keeping; it is because the Father knows that I will
not falter in the safeguarding of the sheepfold, that I will not desert my
sheep, and that, if it shall be required, I will not hesitate to lay down my
life in the service of his manifold flocks. But, mind you, if I lay down my
life, I will take it up again. No man nor any other creature can take away my
life. I have the right and the power to lay down my life, and I have the same
power and right to take it up again. You cannot understand this, but I received
such authority from my Father even before this world was."

When they heard these words, his apostles were confused, his disciples were
amazed, while the Pharisees from Jerusalem and around about went out into the
night, saying, "He is either mad or has a devil." But even some of the
Jerusalem teachers said: "He speaks like one having authority; besides, who
ever saw one having a devil open the eyes of a man born blind and do all of the
wonderful things which this man has done?"

On the morrow about half of these Jewish teachers professed belief in Jesus,
and the other half in dismay returned to Jerusalem and their homes.

3. SABBATH SERMON AT PELLA

By the end of January the Sabbath-afternoon multitudes numbered almost three
thousand. On Saturday, January 28, Jesus preached the memorable ser-

                               top of page - 1820

mon on "Trust and Spiritual Preparedness." After preliminary remarks by Simon
Peter, the Master said:

"What I have many times said to my apostles and to my disciples, I now declare
to this multitude: Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees which is hypocrisy,
born of prejudice and nurtured in traditional bondage, albeit many of these
Pharisees are honest of heart and some of them abide here as my disciples.
Presently all of you shall understand my teaching, for there is nothing now
covered that shall not be revealed. That which is now hid from you shall all be
made known when the Son of Man has completed his mission on earth and in the
flesh.

"Soon, very soon, will the things which our enemies now plan in secrecy and in
darkness be brought out into the light and be proclaimed from the housetops.
But I say to you, my friends, when they seek to destroy the Son of Man, be not
afraid of them. Fear not those who, although they may be able to kill the body,
after that have no more power over you. I admonish you to fear none, in heaven
or on earth, but to rejoice in the knowledge of Him who has power to deliver
you from all unrighteousness and to present you blameless before the judgment
seat of a universe.

"Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? And yet, when these birds flit
about in quest of their sustenance, not one of them exists without the
knowledge of the Father, the source of all life. To the seraphic guardians the
very hairs of your head are numbered. And if all of this is true, why should
you live in fear of the many trifles which come up in your daily lives? I say
to you: Fear not; you are of much more value than many sparrows.

"All of you who have had the courage to confess faith in my gospel before men I
will presently acknowledge before the angels of heaven; but he who shall
knowingly deny the truth of my teachings before men shall be denied by his
guardian of destiny even before the angels of heaven.

"Say what you will about the Son of Man, and it shall be forgiven you; but he
who presumes to blaspheme against God shall hardly find forgiveness. When men
go so far as knowingly to ascribe the doings of God to the forces of evil, such
deliberate rebels will hardly seek forgiveness for their sins.

"And when our enemies bring you before the rulers of the synagogues and before
other high authorities, be not concerned about what you should say and be not
anxious as to how you should answer their questions, for the spirit that dwells
within you shall certainly teach you in that very hour what you should say in
honor of the gospel of the kingdom.

"How long will you tarry in the valley of decision? Why do you halt between two
opinions? Why should Jew or gentile hesitate to accept the good news that he is
a son of the eternal God? How long will it take us to persuade you to enter
joyfully into your spiritual inheritance? I came into this world to reveal the
Father to you and to lead you to the Father. The first I have done, but the
last I may not do without your consent; the Father never compels any man to
enter the kingdom. The invitation ever has been and always will be: Whosoever
will, let him come and freely partake of the water of life."

When Jesus had finished speaking, many went forth to be baptized by the
apostles in the Jordan while he listened to the questions of those who
remained.

                               top of page - 1821

4. DIVIDING THE INHERITANCE

As the apostles baptized believers, the Master talked with those who tarried.
And a certain young man said to him: "Master, my father died leaving much
property to me and my brother, but my brother refuses to give me that which is
my own. Will you, then, bid my brother divide this inheritance with me?" Jesus
was mildly indignant that this material-minded youth should bring up for
discussion such a question of business; but he proceeded to use the occasion
for the impartation of further instruction. Said Jesus: "Man, who made me a
divider over you? Where did you get the idea that I give attention to the
material affairs of this world?" And then, turning to all who were about him,
he said: "Take heed and keep yourselves free from covetousness; a man's life
consists not in the abundance of the things which he may possess. Happiness
comes not from the power of wealth, and joy springs not from riches. Wealth, in
itself, is not a curse, but the love of riches many times leads to such
devotion to the things of this world that the soul becomes blinded to the
beautiful attractions of the spiritual realities of the kingdom of God on earth
and to the joys of eternal life in heaven.

"Let me tell you a story of a certain rich man whose ground brought forth
plentifully; and when he had become very rich, he began to reason with himself,
saying: `What shall I do with all my riches? I now have so much that I have no
place to store my wealth.' And when he had meditated on his problem, he said:
`This I will do; I will pull down my barns and build greater ones, and thus
will I have abundant room in which to store my fruits and my goods. Then can I
say to my soul, soul, you have much wealth laid up for many years; take now
your ease; eat, drink, and be merry, for you are rich and increased in goods.'

"But this rich man was also foolish. In providing for the material requirements
of his mind and body, he had failed to lay up treasures in heaven for the
satisfaction of the spirit and for the salvation of the soul. And even then he
was not to enjoy the pleasure of consuming his hoarded wealth, for that very
night was his soul required of him. That night there came the brigands who
broke into his house to kill him, and after they had plundered his barns, they
burned that which remained. And for the property which escaped the robbers his
heirs fell to fighting among themselves. This man laid up treasures for himself
on earth, but he was not rich toward God."

Jesus thus dealt with the young man and his inheritance because he knew that
his trouble was covetousness. Even if this had not been the case, the Master
would not have interfered, for he never meddled with the temporal affairs of
even his apostles, much less his disciples.

When Jesus had finished his story, another man rose up and asked him: "Master,
I know that your apostles have sold all their earthly possessions to follow
you, and that they have all things in common as do the Essenes, but would you
have all of us who are your disciples do likewise? Is it a sin to possess
honest wealth?" And Jesus replied to this question: "My friend, it is not a sin
to have honorable wealth; but it is a sin if you convert the wealth of material
possessions into treasures which may absorb your interests and divert your
affections from devotion to the spiritual pursuits of the kingdom. There is no
sin in having honest possessions on earth provided your treasure is in heaven,
for

                               top of page - 1822

where your  is there will your heart be also. There is a great difference
between wealth which leads to covetousness and selfishness and that which is
held and dispensed in the spirit of stewardship by those who have an abundance
of this world's goods, and who so bountifully contribute to the support of
those who devote all their energies to the work of the kingdom. Many of you who
are here and without money are fed and lodged in yonder tented city because
liberal men and women of means have given funds to your host, David Zebedee,
for such purposes.

"But never forget that, after all, wealth is unenduring. The love of riches all
too often obscures and even destroys the spiritual vision. Fail not to
recognize the danger of wealth's becoming, not your servant, but your master."

Jesus did not teach nor countenance improvidence, idleness, indifference to
providing the physical necessities for one's family, or dependence upon alms.
But he did teach that the material and temporal must be subordinated to the
welfare of the soul and the progress of the spiritual nature in the kingdom of
heaven.

Then, as the people went down by the river to witness the baptizing, the first
man came privately to Jesus about his inheritance inasmuch as he thought Jesus
had dealt harshly with him; and when the Master had again heard him, he
replied: "My son, why do you miss the opportunity to feed upon the bread of
life on a day like this in order to indulge your covetous disposition? Do you
not know that the Jewish laws of inheritance will be justly administered if you
will go with your complaint to the court of the synagogue? Can you not see that
my work has to do with making sure that you know about your heavenly
inheritance? Have you not read the Scripture: `There is he who waxes rich by
his wariness and much pinching, and this is the portion of his reward: Whereas
he says, I have found rest and now shall be able to eat continually of my
goods, yet he knows not what time shall bring upon him, and also that he must
leave all these things to others when he dies.' Have you not read the
commandment: `You shall not covet.' And again, `They have eaten and filled
themselves and waxed fat, and then did they turn to other gods.' Have you read
in the Psalms that `the Lord abhors the covetous,' and that `the little a
righteous man has is better than the riches of many wicked.' `If riches
increase, set not your heart upon them.' Have you read where Jeremiah said,
`Let not the rich man glory in his riches'; and Ezekiel spoke truth when he
said, `With their mouths they make a show of love, but their hearts are set
upon their own selfish gain.'"

Jesus sent the young man away, saying to him, "My son, what shall it profit you
if you gain the whole world and lose your own soul?"

To another standing near by who asked Jesus how the wealthy would stand in the
day of judgment, he replied: "I have come to judge neither the rich nor the
poor, but the lives men live will sit in judgment on all. Whatever else may
concern the wealthy in the judgment, at least three questions must be answered
by all who acquire great wealth, and these questions are:

"1. How much wealth did you accumulate?

"2. How did you get this wealth?

"3. How did you use your wealth?"

Then Jesus went into his tent to rest for a while before the evening meal. When
the apostles had finished with the baptizing, they came also and would

                               top of page - 1823

have talked with him about wealth on earth and treasure in heaven, but he was
asleep.

5. TALKS TO THE APOSTLES ON WEALTH

That evening after supper, when Jesus and the twelve gathered together for
their daily conference, Andrew asked: "Master, while we were baptizing the
believers, you spoke many words to the lingering multitude which we did not
hear. Would you be willing to repeat these words for our benefit?" And in
response to Andrew's request, Jesus said:

"Yes, Andrew, I will speak to you about these matters of wealth and
self-support, but my words to you, the apostles, must be somewhat different
from those spoken to the disciples and the multitude since you have forsaken
everything, not only to follow me, but to be ordained as ambassadors of the
kingdom. Already have you had several years' experience, and you know that the
Father whose kingdom you proclaim will not forsake you. You have dedicated your
lives to the ministry of the kingdom; therefore be not anxious or worried about
the things of the temporal life, what you shall eat, nor yet for your body,
what you shall wear. The welfare of the soul is more than food and drink; the
progress in the spirit is far above the need of raiment. When you are tempted
to doubt the sureness of your bread, consider the ravens; they sow not neither
reap, they have no storehouses or barns, and yet the Father provides food for
every one of them that seeks it. And of how much more value are you than many
birds! Besides, all of your anxiety or fretting doubts can do nothing to supply
your material needs. Which of you by anxiety can add a handbreadth to your
stature or a day to your life? Since such matters are not in your hands, why do
you give anxious thought to any of these problems?

"Consider the lilies, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin; yet I
say to you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. If
God so clothes the grass of the field, which is alive today and tomorrow is cut
down and cast into the fire, how much more shall he clothe you, the ambassadors
of the heavenly kingdom. O you of little faith! When you wholeheartedly devote
yourselves to the proclamation of the gospel of the kingdom, you should not be
of doubtful minds concerning the support of yourselves or the families you have
forsaken. If you give your lives truly to the gospel, you shall live by the
gospel. If you are only believing disciples, you must earn your own bread and
contribute to the sustenance of all who teach and preach and heal. If you are
anxious about your bread and water, wherein are you different from the nations
of the world who so diligently seek such necessities? Devote yourselves to your
work, believing that both the Father and I know that you have need of all these
things. Let me assure you, once and for all, that, if you dedicate your lives
to the work of the kingdom, all your real needs shall be supplied. Seek the
greater thing, and the lesser will be found therein; ask for the heavenly, and
the earthly shall be included. The shadow is certain to follow the substance.

"You are only a small group, but if you have faith, if you will not stumble in
fear, I declare that it is my Father's good pleasure to give you this kingdom.
You have laid up your treasures where the purse waxes not old, where no thief
can despoil, and where no moth can destroy. And as I told the people, where
your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

                               top of page - 1824

"But in the work which is just ahead of us, and in that which remains for you
after I go to the Father, you will be grievously tried. You must all be on your
watch against fear and doubts. Every one of you, gird up the loins of your
minds and let your lamps be kept burning. Keep yourselves like men who are
watching for their master to return from the marriage feast so that, when he
comes and knocks, you may quickly open to him. Such watchful servants are
blessed by the master who finds them faithful at such a great moment. Then will
the master make his servants sit down while he himself serves them. Verily,
verily, I say to you that a crisis is just ahead in your lives, and it behooves
you to watch and be ready.

"You well understand that no man would suffer his house to be broken into if he
knew what hour the thief was to come. Be you also on watch for yourselves, for
in an hour that you least suspect and in a manner you think not, shall the Son
of Man depart."

For some minutes the twelve sat in silence. Some of these warnings they had
heard before but not in the setting presented to them at this time.

6. ANSWER TO PETER'S QUESTION

As they sat thinking, Simon Peter asked: "Do you speak this parable to us, your
apostles, or is it for all the disciples?" And Jesus answered:

"In the time of testing, a man's soul is revealed; trial discloses what really
is in the heart. When the servant is tested and proved, then may the lord of
the house set such a servant over his household and safely trust this faithful
steward to see that his children are fed and nurtured. Likewise, will I soon
know who can be trusted with the welfare of my children when I shall have
returned to the Father. As the lord of the household shall set the true and
tried servant over the affairs of his family, so will I exalt those who endure
the trials of this hour in the affairs of my kingdom.

"But if the servant is slothful and begins to say in his heart, `My master
delays his coming,' and begins to mistreat his fellow servants and to eat and
drink with the drunken, then the lord of that servant will come at a time when
he looks not for him and, finding him unfaithful, will cast him out in
disgrace. Therefore you do well to prepare yourselves for that day when you
will be visited suddenly and in an unexpected manner. Remember, much has been
given to you; therefore will much be required of you. Fiery trials are drawing
near you. I have a baptism to be baptized with, and I am on watch until this is
accomplished. You preach peace on earth, but my mission will not bring peace in
the material affairs of men--not for a time, at least. Division can only be the
result where two members of a family believe in me and three members reject
this gospel. Friends, relatives, and loved ones are destined to be set against
each other by the gospel you preach. True, each of these believers shall have
great and lasting peace in his own heart, but peace on earth will not come
until all are willing to believe and enter into their glorious inheritance of
sonship with God. Nevertheless, go into all the world proclaiming this gospel
to all nations, to every man, woman, and child."

And this was the end of a full and busy Sabbath day. On the morrow Jesus and
the twelve went into the cities of northern Perea to visit with the seventy,
who were working in these regions under Abner's supervision.

                               top of page - 1825

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   At The Feast   ³   Last Visit To   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Of...       ³       N...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
