              Urantia Book Paper 168 The Resurrection Of Lazarus
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
           To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ...
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 168 The Resurrection Of Lazarus

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

IT WAS shortly after noon when Martha started out to meet Jesus as he came over
the brow of the hill near Bethany. Her brother, Lazarus, had been dead four
days and had been laid away in their private tomb at the far end of the garden
late on Sunday afternoon. The stone at the entrance of the tomb had been rolled
in place on the morning of this day, Thursday.

When Martha and Mary sent word to Jesus concerning Lazarus's illness, they were
confident the Master would do something about it. They knew that their brother
was desperately sick, and though they hardly dared hope that Jesus would leave
his work of teaching and preaching to come to their assistance, they had such
confidence in his power to heal disease that they thought he would just speak
the curative words, and Lazarus would immediately be made whole. And when
Lazarus died a few hours after the messenger left Bethany for Philadelphia,
they reasoned that it was because the Master did not learn of their brother's
illness until it was too late, until he had already been dead for several
hours.

But they, with all of their believing friends, were greatly puzzled by the
message which the runner brought back Tuesday forenoon when he reached Bethany.
The messenger insisted that he heard Jesus say, ". . . this sickness is really
not to the death." Neither could they understand why he sent no word to them
nor otherwise proffered assistance.

Many friends from near-by hamlets and others from Jerusalem came over to
comfort the sorrow-stricken sisters. Lazarus and his sisters were the children
of a well-to-do and honorable Jew, one who had been the leading resident of the
little village of Bethany. And notwithstanding that all three had long been
ardent followers of Jesus, they were highly respected by all who knew them.
They had inherited extensive vineyards and olive orchards in this vicinity, and
that they were wealthy was further attested by the fact that they could afford
a private burial tomb on their own premises. Both of their parents had already
been laid away in this tomb.

Mary had given up the thought of Jesus' coming and was abandoned to her grief,
but Martha clung to the hope that Jesus would come, even up to the time on that
very morning when they rolled the stone in front of the tomb and sealed the
entrance. Even then she instructed a neighbor lad to keep watch down the
Jericho road from the brow of the hill to the east of Bethany; and it was this
lad who brought tidings to Martha that Jesus and his friends were approaching.

When Martha met Jesus, she fell at his feet, exclaiming, "Master, if you had
been here, my brother would not have died!" Many fears were passing

                               top of page - 1843

through Martha's mind, but she gave expression to no doubt, nor did she venture
to criticize or question the Master's conduct as related to Lazarus's death.
When she had spoken, Jesus reached down and, lifting her upon her feet, said,
"Only have faith, Martha, and your brother shall rise again." Then answered
Martha: "I know that he will rise again in the resurrection of the last day;
and even now I believe that whatever you shall ask of God, our Father will give
you."

Then said Jesus, looking straight into the eyes of Martha: "I am the
resurrection and the life; he who believes in me, though he dies, yet shall he
live. In truth, whosoever lives and believes in me shall never really die.
Martha, do you believe this?" And Martha answered the Master: "Yes, I have long
believed that you are the Deliverer, the Son of the living God, even he who
should come to this world."

Jesus having inquired for Mary, Martha went at once into the house and,
whispering to her sister, said, "The Master is here and has asked for you." And
when Mary heard this, she rose up quickly and hastened out to meet Jesus, who
still tarried at the place, some distance from the house, where Martha had
first met him. The friends who were with Mary, seeking to comfort her, when
they saw that she rose up quickly and went out, followed her, supposing that
she was going to the tomb to weep.

Many of those present were Jesus' bitter enemies. That is why Martha had come
out to meet him alone, and also why she went in secretly to inform Mary that he
had asked for her. Martha, while craving to see Jesus, desired to avoid any
possible unpleasantness which might be caused by his coming suddenly into the
midst of a large group of his Jerusalem enemies. It had been Martha's intention
to remain in the house with their friends while Mary went to greet Jesus, but
in this she failed, for they all followed Mary and so found themselves
unexpectedly in the presence of the Master.

Martha led Mary to Jesus, and when she saw him, she fell at his feet,
exclaiming, "If you had only been here, my brother would not have died!" And
when Jesus saw how they all grieved over the death of Lazarus, his soul was
moved with compassion.

When the mourners saw that Mary had gone to greet Jesus, they withdrew for a
short distance while both Martha and Mary talked with the Master and received
further words of comfort and exhortation to maintain strong faith in the Father
and complete resignation to the divine will.

The human mind of Jesus was mightily moved by the contention between his love
for Lazarus and the bereaved sisters and his disdain and contempt for the
outward show of affection manifested by some of these unbelieving and
murderously intentioned Jews. Jesus indignantly resented the show of forced and
outward mourning for Lazarus by some of these professed friends inasmuch as
such false sorrow was associated in their hearts with so much bitter enmity
toward himself. Some of these Jews, however, were sincere in their mourning,
for they were real friends of the family.

1. AT THE TOMB OF LAZARUS

After Jesus had spent a few moments in comforting Martha and Mary, apart from
the mourners, he asked them, "Where have you laid him?" Then Martha said, "Come
and see." And as the Master followed on in silence with the two

                               top of page - 1844

sorrowing sisters, he wept. When the friendly Jews who followed after them saw
his tears, one of them said: "Behold how he loved him. Could not he who opened
the eyes of the blind have kept this man from dying?" By this time they were
standing before the family tomb, a small natural cave, or declivity, in the
ledge of rock which rose up some thirty feet at the far end of the garden plot.

It is difficult to explain to human minds just why Jesus wept. While we have
access to the registration of the combined human emotions and divine thoughts,
as of record in the mind of the Personalized Adjuster, we are not altogether
certain about the real cause of these emotional manifestations. We are inclined
to believe that Jesus wept because of a number of thoughts and feelings which
were going through his mind at this time, such as:

1. He felt a genuine and sorrowful sympathy for Martha and Mary; he had a real
and deep human affection for these sisters who had lost their brother.

2. He was perturbed in his mind by the presence of the crowd of mourners, some
sincere and some merely pretenders. He always resented these outward
exhibitions of mourning. He knew the sisters loved their brother and had faith
in the survival of believers. These conflicting emotions may possibly explain
why he groaned as they came near the tomb.

3. He truly hesitated about bringing Lazarus back to the mortal life. His
sisters really needed him, but Jesus regretted having to summon his friend back
to experience the bitter persecution which he well knew Lazarus would have to
endure as a result of being the subject of the greatest of all demonstrations
of the divine power of the Son of Man.

And now we may relate an interesting and instructive fact: Although this
narrative unfolds as an apparently natural and normal event in human affairs,
it has some very interesting side lights. While the messenger went to Jesus on
Sunday, telling him of Lazarus's illness, and while Jesus sent word that it was
"not to the death," at the same time he went in person up to Bethany and even
asked the sisters, "Where have you laid him?" Even though all of this seems to
indicate that the Master was proceeding after the manner of this life and in
accordance with the limited knowledge of the human mind, nevertheless, the
records of the universe reveal that Jesus' Personalized Adjuster issued orders
for the indefinite detention of Lazarus's Thought Adjuster on the planet
subsequent to Lazarus's death, and that this order was made of record just
fifteen minutes before Lazarus breathed his last.

Did the divine mind of Jesus know, even before Lazarus died, that he would
raise him from the dead? We do not know. We know only what we are herewith
placing on record.

Many of Jesus' enemies were inclined to sneer at his manifestations of
affection, and they said among themselves: "If he thought so much of this man,
why did he tarry so long before coming to Bethany? If he is what they claim,
why did he not save his dear friend? What is the good of healing strangers in
Galilee if he cannot save those whom he loves?" And in many other ways they
mocked and made light of the teachings and works of Jesus.

And so, on this Thursday afternoon at about half past two o'clock, was the
stage all set in this little hamlet of Bethany for the enactment of the
greatest of all works connected with the earth ministry of Michael of Nebadon,
the greatest

                               top of page - 1845

manifestation of divine power during his incarnation in the flesh, since his
own resurrection occurred after he had been liberated from the bonds of mortal
habitation.

The small group assembled before Lazarus's tomb little realized the presence
near at hand of a vast concourse of all orders of celestial beings assembled
under the leadership of Gabriel and now in waiting, by direction of the
Personalized Adjuster of Jesus, vibrating with expectancy and ready to execute
the bidding of their beloved Sovereign.

When Jesus spoke those words of command, "Take away the stone," the assembled
celestial hosts made ready to enact the drama of the resurrection of Lazarus in
the likeness of his mortal flesh. Such a form of resurrection involves
difficulties of execution which far transcend the usual technique of the
resurrection of mortal creatures in morontia form and requires far more
celestial personalities and a far greater organization of universe facilities.

When Martha and Mary heard this command of Jesus directing that the stone in
front of the tomb be rolled away, they were filled with conflicting emotions.
Mary hoped that Lazarus was to be raised from the dead, but Martha, while to
some extent sharing her sister's faith, was more exercised by the fear that
Lazarus would not be presentable, in his appearance, to Jesus, the apostles,
and their friends. Said Martha: "Must we roll away the stone? My brother has
now been dead four days, so that by this time decay of the body has begun."
Martha also said this because she was not certain as to why the Master had
requested that the stone be removed; she thought maybe Jesus wanted only to
take one last look at Lazarus. She was not settled and constant in her
attitude. As they hesitated to roll away the stone, Jesus said: "Did I not tell
you at the first that this sickness was not to the death? Have I not come to
fulfill my promise? And after I came to you, did I not say that, if you would
only believe, you should see the glory of God? Wherefore do you doubt? How long
before you will believe and obey?"

When Jesus had finished speaking, his apostles, with the assistance of willing
neighbors, laid hold upon the stone and rolled it away from the entrance to the
tomb.

It was the common belief of the Jews that the drop of gall on the point of the
sword of the angel of death began to work by the end of the third day, so that
it was taking full effect on the fourth day. They allowed that the soul of man
might linger about the tomb until the end of the third day, seeking to
reanimate the dead body; but they firmly believed that such a soul had gone on
to the abode of departed spirits ere the fourth day had dawned.

These beliefs and opinions regarding the dead and the departure of the spirits
of the dead served to make sure, in the minds of all who were now present at
Lazarus's tomb and subsequently to all who might hear of what was about to
occur, that this was really and truly a case of the raising of the dead by the
personal working of one who declared he was "the resurrection and the life."

2. THE RESURRECTION OF LAZARUS

As this company of some forty-five mortals stood before the tomb, they could
dimly see the form of Lazarus, wrapped in linen bandages, resting on the right
lower niche of the burial cave. While these earth creatures stood there in

                               top of page - 1846

almost breathless silence, a vast host of celestial beings had swung into their
places preparatory to answering the signal for action when it should be given
by Gabriel, their commander.

Jesus lifted up his eyes and said: "Father, I am thankful that you heard and
granted my request. I know that you always hear me, but because of those who
stand here with me, I thus speak with you, that they may believe that you have
sent me into the world, and that they may know that you are working with me in
that which we are about to do." And when he had prayed, he cried with a loud
voice, "Lazarus, come forth!"

Though these human observers remained motionless, the vast celestial host was
all astir in unified action in obedience to the Creator's word. In just twelve
seconds of earth time the hitherto lifeless form of Lazarus began to move and
presently sat up on the edge of the stone shelf whereon it had rested. His body
was bound about with grave cloths, and his face was covered with a napkin. And
as he stood up before them--alive--Jesus said, "Loose him and let him go."

All, save the apostles, with Martha and Mary, fled to the house. They were pale
with fright and overcome with astonishment. While some tarried, many hastened
to their homes.

Lazarus greeted Jesus and the apostles and asked the meaning of the grave
cloths and why he had awakened in the garden. Jesus and the apostles drew to
one side while Martha told Lazarus of his death, burial, and resurrection. She
had to explain to him that he had died on Sunday and was now brought back to
life on Thursday, inasmuch as he had had no consciousness of time since falling
asleep in death.

As Lazarus came out of the tomb, the Personalized Adjuster of Jesus, now chief
of his kind in this local universe, gave command to the former Adjuster of
Lazarus, now in waiting, to resume abode in the mind and soul of the
resurrected man.

Then went Lazarus over to Jesus and, with his sisters, knelt at the Master's
feet to give thanks and offer praise to God. Jesus, taking Lazarus by the hand,
lifted him up, saying: "My son, what has happened to you will also be
experienced by all who believe this gospel except that they shall be
resurrected in a more glorious form. You shall be a living witness of the truth
which I spoke--I am the resurrection and the life. But let us all now go into
the house and partake of nourishment for these physical bodies."

As they walked toward the house, Gabriel dismissed the extra groups of the
assembled heavenly host while he made record of the first instance on Urantia,
and the last, where a mortal creature had been resurrected in the likeness of
the physical body of death.

Lazarus could hardly comprehend what had occurred. He knew he had been very
sick, but he could recall only that he had fallen asleep and been awakened. He
was never able to tell anything about these four days in the tomb because he
was wholly unconscious. Time is nonexistent to those who sleep the sleep of
death.

Though many believed in Jesus as a result of this mighty work, others only
hardened their hearts the more to reject him. By noon the next day this story
had spread over all Jerusalem. Scores of men and women went to Bethany to look
upon Lazarus and talk with him, and the alarmed and disconcerted Phar-

                               top of page - 1847

isees hastily called a meeting of the Sanhedrin that they might determine what
should be done about these new developments.

3. MEETING OF THE SANHEDRIN

Even though the testimony of this man raised from the dead did much to
consolidate the faith of the mass of believers in the gospel of the kingdom, it
had little or no influence on the attitude of the religious leaders and rulers
at Jerusalem except to hasten their decision to destroy Jesus and stop his
work.

At one o'clock the next day, Friday, the Sanhedrin met to deliberate further on
the question, "What shall we do with Jesus of Nazareth?" After more than two
hours of discussion and acrimonious debate, a certain Pharisee presented a
resolution calling for Jesus' immediate death, proclaiming that he was a menace
to all Israel and formally committing the Sanhedrin to the decision of death,
without trial and in defiance of all precedent.

Time and again had this august body of Jewish leaders decreed that Jesus be
apprehended and brought to trial on charges of blasphemy and numerous other
accusations of flouting the Jewish sacred law. They had once before even gone
so far as to declare he should die, but this was the first time the Sanhedrin
had gone on record as desiring to decree his death in advance of a trial. But
this resolution did not come to a vote since fourteen members of the Sanhedrin
resigned in a body when such an unheard-of action was proposed. While these
resignations were not formally acted upon for almost two weeks, this group of
fourteen withdrew from the Sanhedrin on that day, never again to sit in the
council. When these resignations were subsequently acted upon, five other
members were thrown out because their associates believed they entertained
friendly feelings toward Jesus. With the ejection of these nineteen men the
Sanhedrin was in a position to try and to condemn Jesus with a solidarity
bordering on unanimity.

The following week Lazarus and his sisters were summoned to appear before the
Sanhedrin. When their testimony had been heard, no doubt could be entertained
that Lazarus had been raised from the dead. Though the transactions of the
Sanhedrin virtually admitted the resurrection of Lazarus, the record carried a
resolution attributing this and all other wonders worked by Jesus to the power
of the prince of devils, with whom Jesus was declared to be in league.

No matter what the source of his wonder-working power, these Jewish leaders
were persuaded that, if he were not immediately stopped, very soon all the
common people would believe in him; and further, that serious complications
with the Roman authorities would arise since so many of his believers regarded
him as the Messiah, Israel's deliverer.

It was at this same meeting of the Sanhedrin that Caiaphas the high priest
first gave expression to that old Jewish adage, which he so many times
repeated: "It is better that one man die, than that the community perish."

Although Jesus had received warning of the doings of the Sanhedrin on this dark
Friday afternoon, he was not in the least perturbed and continued resting over
the Sabbath with friends in Bethphage, a hamlet near Bethany. Early Sunday
morning Jesus and the apostles assembled, by prearrangement, at the home of
Lazarus, and taking leave of the Bethany family, they started on their journey
back to the Pella encampment.

                               top of page - 1848

4. THE ANSWER TO PRAYER

On the way from Bethany to Pella the apostles asked Jesus many questions, all
of which the Master freely answered except those involving the details of the
resurrection of the dead. Such problems were beyond the comprehension capacity
of his apostles; therefore did the Master decline to discuss these questions
with them. Since they had departed from Bethany in secret, they were alone.
Jesus therefore embraced the opportunity to say many things to the ten which he
thought would prepare them for the trying days just ahead.

The apostles were much stirred up in their minds and spent considerable time
discussing their recent experiences as they were related to prayer and its
answering. They all recalled Jesus' statement to the Bethany messenger at
Philadelphia, when he said plainly, "This sickness is not really to the death."
And yet, in spite of this promise, Lazarus actually died. All that day, again
and again, they reverted to the discussion of this question of the answer to
prayer.

Jesus' answers to their many questions may be summarized as follows:

1. Prayer is an expression of the finite mind in an effort to approach the
Infinite. The making of a prayer must, therefore, be limited by the knowledge,
wisdom, and attributes of the finite; likewise must the answer be conditioned
by the vision, aims, ideals, and prerogatives of the Infinite. There never can
be observed an unbroken continuity of material phenomena between the making of
a prayer and the reception of the full spiritual answer thereto.

2. When a prayer is apparently unanswered, the delay often betokens a better
answer, although one which is for some good reason greatly delayed. When Jesus
said that Lazarus's sickness was really not to the death, he had already been
dead eleven hours. No sincere prayer is denied an answer except when the
superior viewpoint of the spiritual world has devised a better answer, an
answer which meets the petition of the spirit of man as contrasted with the
prayer of the mere mind of man.

3. The prayers of time, when indited by the spirit and expressed in faith, are
often so vast and all-encompassing that they can be answered only in eternity;
the finite petition is sometimes so fraught with the grasp of the Infinite that
the answer must long be postponed to await the creation of adequate capacity
for receptivity; the prayer of faith may be so all-embracing that the answer
can be received only on Paradise.

4. The answers to the prayer of the mortal mind are often of such a nature that
they can be received and recognized only after that same praying mind has
attained the immortal state. The prayer of the material being can many times be
answered only when such an individual has progressed to the spirit level.

5. The prayer of a God-knowing person may be so distorted by ignorance and so
deformed by superstition that the answer thereto would be highly undesirable.
Then must the intervening spirit beings so translate such a prayer that, when
the answer arrives, the petitioner wholly fails to recognize it as the answer
to his prayer.

6. All true prayers are addressed to spiritual beings, and all such petitions
must be answered in spiritual terms, and all such answers must consist in
spiritual realities. Spirit beings cannot bestow material answers to the spirit
peti-

                               top of page - 1849

tions of even material beings. Material beings can pray effectively only when
they "pray in the spirit."

7. No prayer can hope for an answer unless it is born of the spirit and
nurtured by faith. Your sincere faith implies that you have in advance
virtually granted your prayer hearers the full right to answer your petitions
in accordance with that supreme wisdom and that divine love which your faith
depicts as always actuating those beings to whom you pray.

8. The child is always within his rights when he presumes to petition the
parent; and the parent is always within his parental obligations to the
immature child when his superior wisdom dictates that the answer to the child's
prayer be delayed, modified, segregated, transcended, or postponed to another
stage of spiritual ascension.

9. Do not hesitate to pray the prayers of spirit longing; doubt not that you
shall receive the answer to your petitions. These answers will be on deposit,
awaiting your achievement of those future spiritual levels of actual cosmic
attainment, on this world or on others, whereon it will become possible for you
to recognize and appropriate the long-waiting answers to your earlier but
ill-timed petitions.

10. All genuine spirit-born petitions are certain of an answer. Ask and you
shall receive. But you should remember that you are progressive creatures of
time and space; therefore must you constantly reckon with the time-space factor
in the experience of your personal reception of the full answers to your
manifold prayers and petitions.

5. WHAT BECAME OF LAZARUS

Lazarus remained at the Bethany home, being the center of great interest to
many sincere believers and to numerous curious individuals, until the week of
the crucifixion of Jesus, when he received warning that the Sanhedrin had
decreed his death. The rulers of the Jews were determined to put a stop to the
further spread of the teachings of Jesus, and they well judged that it would be
useless to put Jesus to death if they permitted Lazarus, who represented the
very peak of his wonder-working, to live and bear testimony to the fact that
Jesus had raised him from the dead. Already had Lazarus suffered bitter
persecution from them.

And so Lazarus took hasty leave of his sisters at Bethany, fleeing down through
Jericho and across the Jordan, never permitting himself to rest long until he
had reached Philadelphia. Lazarus knew Abner well, and here he felt safe from
the murderous intrigues of the wicked Sanhedrin.

Soon after this Martha and Mary disposed of their lands at Bethany and joined
their brother in Perea. Meantime, Lazarus had become the treasurer of the
church at Philadelphia. He became a strong supporter of Abner in his
controversy with Paul and the Jerusalem church and ultimately died, when 67
years old, of the same sickness that carried him off when he was a younger man
at Bethany.

                               top of page - 1850

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   The Visit To   ³   Last Teaching   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      Ph...       ³       A...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
