            Urantia Book Paper 174 Tuesday Morning In The Temple
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
                                     Temple
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 174 Tuesday Morning In The Temple

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

ABOUT seven o'clock on this Tuesday morning Jesus met the apostles, the women's
corps, and some two dozen other prominent disciples at the home of Simon. At
this meeting he said farewell to Lazarus, giving him that instruction which led
him so soon to flee to Philadelphia in Perea, where he later became connected
with the missionary movement having its headquarters in that city. Jesus also
said good-bye to the aged Simon, and gave his parting advice to the women's
corps, as he never again formally addressed them.

This morning he greeted each of the twelve with a personal salutation. To
Andrew he said: "Be not dismayed by the events just ahead. Keep a firm hold on
your brethren and see that they do not find you downcast." To Peter he said:
"Put not your trust in the arm of flesh nor in weapons of steel. Establish
yourself on the spiritual foundations of the eternal rocks." To James he said:
"Falter not because of outward appearances. Remain firm in your faith, and you
shall soon know of the reality of that which you believe." To John he said: "Be
gentle; love even your enemies; be tolerant. And remember that I have trusted
you with many things." To Nathaniel he said: "Judge not by appearances; remain
firm in your faith when all appears to vanish; be true to your commission as an
ambassador of the kingdom." To Philip he said: "Be unmoved by the events now
impending. Remain unshaken, even when you cannot see the way. Be loyal to your
oath of consecration." To Matthew he said: "Forget not the mercy that received
you into the kingdom. Let no man cheat you of your eternal reward. As you have
withstood the inclinations of the mortal nature, be willing to be steadfast."
To Thomas he said: "No matter how difficult it may be, just now you must walk
by faith and not by sight. Doubt not that I am able to finish the work I have
begun, and that I shall eventually see all of my faithful ambassadors in the
kingdom beyond." To the Alpheus twins he said: "Do not allow the things which
you cannot understand to crush you. Be true to the affections of your hearts
and put not your trust in either great men or the changing attitude of the
people. Stand by your brethren." And to Simon Zelotes he said: "Simon, you may
be crushed by disappointment, but your spirit shall rise above all that may
come upon you. What you have failed to learn from me, my spirit will teach you.
Seek the true realities of the spirit and cease to be attracted by unreal and
material shadows." And to Judas Iscariot he said: "Judas, I have loved you and
have prayed that you would love your brethren. Be not weary in well doing; and
I would warn you to beware the slippery paths of flattery and the poison darts
of ridicule."

And when he had concluded these greetings, he departed for Jerusalem with
Andrew, Peter, James, and John as the other apostles set about the
establishment of the Gethsemane camp, where they were to go that night, and
where they made their headquarters for the remainder of the Master's life in
the flesh. About half-

                               top of page - 1898

way down the slope of Olivet Jesus paused and visited more than an hour with
the four apostles.

1. DIVINE FORGIVENESS

For several days Peter and James had been engaged in discussing their
differences of opinion about the Master's teaching regarding the forgiveness of
sin. They had both agreed to lay the matter before Jesus, and Peter embraced
this occasion as a fitting opportunity for securing the Master's counsel.
Accordingly, Simon Peter broke in on the conversation dealing with the
differences between praise and worship, by asking: "Master, James and I are not
in accord regarding your teachings having to do with the forgiveness of sin.
James claims you teach that the Father forgives us even before we ask him, and
I maintain that repentance and confession must precede the forgiveness. Which
of us is right? what do you say?"

After a short silence Jesus looked significantly at all four and answered: "My
brethren, you err in your opinions because you do not comprehend the nature of
those intimate and loving relations between the creature and the Creator,
between man and God. You fail to grasp that understanding sympathy which the
wise parent entertains for his immature and sometimes erring child. It is
indeed doubtful whether intelligent and affectionate parents are ever called
upon to forgive an average and normal child. Understanding relationships
associated with attitudes of love effectively prevent all those estrangements
which later necessitate the readjustment of repentance by the child with
forgiveness by the parent.

"A part of every father lives in the child. The father enjoys priority and
superiority of understanding in all matters connected with the child-parent
relationship. The parent is able to view the immaturity of the child in the
light of the more advanced parental maturity, the riper experience of the older
partner. With the earthly child and the heavenly Father, the divine parent
possesses infinity and divinity of sympathy and capacity for loving
understanding. Divine forgiveness is inevitable; it is inherent and inalienable
in God's infinite understanding, in his perfect knowledge of all that concerns
the mistaken judgment and erroneous choosing of the child. Divine justice is so
eternally fair that it unfailingly embodies understanding mercy.

"When a wise man understands the inner impulses of his fellows, he will love
them. And when you love your brother, you have already forgiven him. This
capacity to understand man's nature and forgive his apparent wrongdoing is
Godlike. If you are wise parents, this is the way you will love and understand
your children, even forgive them when transient misunderstanding has apparently
separated you. The child, being immature and lacking in the fuller
understanding of the depth of the child-father relationship, must frequently
feel a sense of guilty separation from a father's full approval, but the true
father is never conscious of any such separation. Sin is an experience of
creature consciousness; it is not a part of God's consciousness.

"Your inability or unwillingness to forgive your fellows is the measure of your
immaturity, your failure to attain adult sympathy, understanding, and love. You
hold grudges and nurse vengefulness in direct proportion to your ignorance of
the inner nature and true longings of your children and your fellow beings.
Love is the outworking of the divine and inner urge of life. It is founded on
understanding, nurtured by unselfish service, and perfected in wisdom."

                               top of page - 1899

2. QUESTIONS BY THE JEWISH RULERS

On Monday evening there had been held a council between the Sanhedrin and some
fifty additional leaders selected from among the scribes, Pharisees, and the
Sadducees. It was the consensus of this meeting that it would be dangerous to
arrest Jesus in public because of his hold upon the affections of the common
people. It was also the opinion of the majority that a determined effort should
be made to discredit him in the eyes of the multitude before he should be
arrested and brought to trial. Accordingly, several groups of learned men were
designated to be on hand the next morning in the temple to undertake to entrap
him with difficult questions and otherwise to seek to embarrass him before the
people. At last, the Pharisees, Sadducees, and even the Herodians were all
united in this effort to discredit Jesus in the eyes of the Passover
multitudes.

Tuesday morning, when Jesus arrived in the temple court and began to teach, he
had uttered but few words when a group of the younger students from the
academies, who had been rehearsed for this purpose, came forward and by their
spokesman addressed Jesus: "Master, we know you are a righteous teacher, and we
know that you proclaim the ways of truth, and that you serve only God, for you
fear no man, and that you are no respecter of persons. We are only students,
and we would know the truth about a matter which troubles us; our difficulty is
this: Is it lawful for us to give tribute to Caesar? Shall we give or shall we
not give?" Jesus, perceiving their hypocrisy and craftiness, said to them: "Why
do you thus come to tempt me? Show me the tribute money, and I will answer
you." And when they handed him a denarius, he looked at it and said, "Whose
image and superscription does this coin bear?" And when they answered him,
"Caesar's," Jesus said, "Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's and
render to God the things that are God's."

When he had thus answered these young scribes and their Herodian accomplices,
they withdrew from his presence, and the people, even the Sadducees, enjoyed
their discomfiture. Even the youths who had endeavored to entrap him marveled
greatly at the unexpected sagacity of the Master's answer.

The previous day the rulers had sought to trip him before the multitude on
matters of ecclesiastical authority, and having failed, they now sought to
involve him in a damaging discussion of civil authority. Both Pilate and Herod
were in Jerusalem at this time, and Jesus' enemies conjectured that, if he
would dare to advise against the payment of tribute to Caesar, they could go at
once before the Roman authorities and charge him with sedition. On the other
hand, if he should advise the payment of tribute in so many words, they rightly
calculated that such a pronouncement would greatly wound the national pride of
his Jewish hearers, thereby alienating the good will and affection of the
multitude.

In all this the enemies of Jesus were defeated since it was a well-known ruling
of the Sanhedrin, made for the guidance of the Jews dispersed among the gentile
nations, that the "right of coinage carried with it the right to levy taxes."
In this manner Jesus avoided their trap. To have answered "No" to their
question would have been equivalent to inciting rebellion; to have answered
"Yes" would have shocked the deep-rooted nationalist sentiments of that day.
The Master did not evade the question; he merely employed the wisdom of making
a double reply. Jesus was never evasive, but he was always wise in his dealings
with those who sought to harass and destroy him.

                               top of page - 1900

3. THE SADDUCEES AND THE RESURRECTION

Before Jesus could get started with his teaching, another group came forward to
question him, this time a company of the learned and crafty Sadducees. Their
spokesman, drawing near to him, said: "Master, Moses said that if a married man
should die, leaving no children, his brother should take the wife and raise up
seed for the deceased brother. Now there occurred a case where a certain man
who had six brothers died childless; his next brother took his wife but also
soon died, leaving no children. Likewise did the second brother take the wife,
but he also died leaving no offspring. And so on until all six of the brothers
had had her, and all six of them passed on without leaving children. And then,
after them all, the woman herself died. Now, what we would like to ask you is
this: In the resurrection whose wife will she be since all seven of these
brothers had her?"

Jesus knew, and so did the people, that these Sadducees were not sincere in
asking this question because it was not likely that such a case would really
occur; and besides, this practice of the brothers of a dead man seeking to
beget children for him was practically a dead letter at this time among the
Jews. Nevertheless, Jesus condescended to reply to their mischievous question.
He said: "You all do err in asking such questions because you know neither the
Scriptures nor the living power of God. You know that the sons of this world
can marry and are given in marriage, but you do not seem to understand that
they who are accounted worthy to attain the worlds to come, through the
resurrection of the righteous, neither marry nor are given in marriage. Those
who experience the resurrection from the dead are more like the angels of
heaven, and they never die. These resurrected ones are eternally the sons of
God; they are the children of light resurrected into the progress of eternal
life. And even your Father Moses understood this, for, in connection with his
experiences at the burning bush, he heard the Father say, `I am the God of
Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.' And so, along with Moses, do
I declare that my Father is not the God of the dead but of the living. In him
you all do live, reproduce, and possess your mortal existence."

When Jesus had finished answering these questions, the Sadducees withdrew, and
some of the Pharisees so far forgot themselves as to exclaim, "True, true,
Master, you have well answered these unbelieving Sadducees." The Sadducees
dared not ask him any more questions, and the common people marveled at the
wisdom of his teaching.

Jesus appealed only to Moses in his encounter with the Sadducees because this
religio-political sect acknowledged the validity of only the five so-called
Books of Moses; they did not allow that the teachings of the prophets were
admissible as a basis of doctrinal dogmas. The Master in his answer, though
positively affirming the fact of the survival of mortal creatures by the
technique of the resurrection, did not in any sense speak approvingly of the
Pharisaic beliefs in the resurrection of the literal human body. The point
Jesus wished to emphasize was: That the Father had said, "I am the God of
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob," not I was their God.

The Sadducees had thought to subject Jesus to the withering influence of
ridicule, knowing full well that persecution in public would most certainly
create further sympathy for him in the minds of the multitude.

                               top of page - 1901

4. THE GREAT COMMANDMENT

Another group of Sadducees had been instructed to ask Jesus entangling
questions about angels, but when they beheld the fate of their comrades who had
sought to entrap him with questions concerning the resurrection, they very
wisely decided to hold their peace; they retired without asking a question. It
was the prearranged plan of the confederated Pharisees, scribes, Sadducees, and
Herodians to fill up the entire day with these entangling questions, hoping
thereby to discredit Jesus before the people and at the same time effectively
to prevent his having any time for the proclamation of his disturbing
teachings.

Then came forward one of the groups of the Pharisees to ask harassing
questions, and the spokesman, signaling to Jesus, said: "Master, I am a lawyer,
and I would like to ask you which, in your opinion, is the greatest
commandment?" Jesus answered: "There is but one commandment, and that one is
the greatest of all, and that commandment is: `Hear O Israel, the Lord our God,
the Lord is one; and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and
with all your soul, with all your mind and with all your strength.' This is the
first and great commandment. And the second commandment is like this first;
indeed, it springs directly therefrom, and it is: `You shall love your neighbor
as yourself.' There is no other commandment greater than these; on these two
commandments hang all the law and the prophets."

When the lawyer perceived that Jesus had answered not only in accordance with
the highest concept of Jewish religion, but that he had also answered wisely in
the sight of the assembled multitude, he thought it the better part of valor
openly to commend the Master's reply. Accordingly, he said: "Of a truth,
Master, you have well said that God is one and there is none beside him; and
that to love him with all the heart, understanding, and strength, and also to
love one's neighbor as one's self, is the first and great commandment; and we
are agreed that this great commandment is much more to be regarded than all the
burnt offerings and sacrifices." When the lawyer answered thus discreetly,
Jesus looked down upon him and said, "My friend, I perceive that you are not
far from the kingdom of God."

Jesus spoke the truth when he referred to this lawyer as being "not far from
the kingdom," for that very night he went out to the Master's camp near
Gethsemane, professed faith in the gospel of the kingdom, and was baptized by
Josiah, one of the disciples of Abner.

Two or three other groups of the scribes and Pharisees were present and had
intended to ask questions, but they were either disarmed by Jesus' answer to
the lawyer, or they were deterred by the discomfiture of all who had undertaken
to ensnare him. After this no man dared to ask him another question in public.

When no more questions were forthcoming, and as the noon hour was near, Jesus
did not resume his teaching but was content merely to ask the Pharisees and
their associates a question. Said Jesus: "Since you ask no more questions, I
would like to ask you one. What do you think of the Deliverer? That is, whose
son is he?" After a brief pause one of the scribes answered, "The Messiah is
the son of David." And since Jesus knew that there had been much debate, even
among his own disciples, as to whether or not he was the son of David, he asked
this further question: "If the Deliverer is indeed the son of David, how is it
that,

                               top of page - 1902

in the Psalm which you accredit to David, he himself, speaking in the spirit,
says, `The Lord said to my lord, sit on my right hand until I make your enemies
the footstool of your feet.' If David calls him Lord, how then can he be his
son?" Although the rulers, the scribes, and the chief priests made no reply to
this question, they likewise refrained from asking him any more questions in an
effort to entangle him. They never answered this question which Jesus put to
them, but after the Master's death they attempted to escape the difficulty by
changing the interpretation of this Psalm so as to make it refer to Abraham
instead of the Messiah. Others sought to escape the dilemma by disallowing that
David was the author of this so-called Messianic Psalm.

A short time back the Pharisees had enjoyed the manner in which the Sadducees
had been silenced by the Master; now the Sadducees were delighted by the
failure of the Pharisees; but such rivalry was only momentary; they speedily
forgot their time-honored differences in the united effort to stop Jesus'
teachings and doings. But throughout all of these experiences the common people
heard him gladly.

5. THE INQUIRING GREEKS

About noontime, as Philip was purchasing supplies for the new camp which was
that day being established near Gethsemane, he was accosted by a delegation of
strangers, a group of believing Greeks from Alexandria, Athens, and Rome, whose
spokesman said to the apostle: "You have been pointed out to us by those who
know you; so we come to you, Sir, with the request to see Jesus, your Master."
Philip was taken by surprise thus to meet these prominent and inquiring Greek
gentiles in the market place, and, since Jesus had so explicitly charged all of
the twelve not to engage in any public teaching during the Passover week, he
was a bit perplexed as to the right way to handle this matter. He was also
disconcerted because these men were foreign gentiles. If they had been Jews or
near-by and familiar gentiles, he would not have hesitated so markedly. What he
did was this: He asked these Greeks to remain right where they were. As he
hastened away, they supposed that he went in search of Jesus, but in reality he
hurried off to the home of Joseph, where he knew Andrew and the other apostles
were at lunch; and calling Andrew out, he explained the purpose of his coming,
and then, accompanied by Andrew, he returned to the waiting Greeks.

Since Philip had about finished the purchasing of supplies, he and Andrew
returned with the Greeks to the home of Joseph, where Jesus received them; and
they sat near while he spoke to his apostles and a number of leading disciples
assembled at this luncheon. Said Jesus:

"My Father sent me to this world to reveal his loving-kindness to the children
of men, but those to whom I first came have refused to receive me. True,
indeed, many of you have believed my gospel for yourselves, but the children of
Abraham and their leaders are about to reject me, and in so doing they will
reject Him who sent me. I have freely proclaimed the gospel of salvation to
this people; I have told them of sonship with joy, liberty, and life more
abundant in the spirit. My Father has done many wonderful works among these
fear-ridden sons of men. But truly did the Prophet Isaiah refer to this people
when he wrote: `Lord, who has believed our teachings? And to whom has the Lord
been revealed?' Truly have the leaders of my people deliberately blinded their
eyes that they see not,

                               top of page - 1903

and hardened their hearts lest they believe and be saved. All these years have
I sought to heal them of their unbelief that they might be recipients of the
Father's eternal salvation. I know that not all have failed me; some of you
have indeed believed my message. In this room now are a full score of men who
were once members of the Sanhedrin, or who were high in the councils of the
nation, albeit even some of you still shrink from open confession of the truth
lest they cast you out of the synagogue. Some of you are tempted to love the
glory of men more than the glory of God. But I am constrained to show
forbearance since I fear for the safety and loyalty of even some of those who
have been so long near me, and who have lived so close by my side.

"In this banquet chamber I perceive there are assembled Jews and gentiles in
about equal numbers, and I would address you as the first and last of such a
group that I may instruct in the affairs of the kingdom before I go to my
Father."

These Greeks had been in faithful attendance upon Jesus' teaching in the
temple. On Monday evening they had held a conference at the home of Nicodemus,
which lasted until the dawn of day, and thirty of them had elected to enter the
kingdom.

As Jesus stood before them at this time, he perceived the end of one
dispensation and the beginning of another. Turning his attention to the Greeks,
the Master said:

"He who believes this gospel, believes not merely in me but in Him who sent me.
When you look upon me, you see not only the Son of Man but also Him who sent
me. I am the light of the world, and whosoever will believe my teaching shall
no longer abide in darkness. If you gentiles will hear me, you shall receive
the words of life and shall enter forthwith into the joyous liberty of the
truth of sonship with God. If my fellow countrymen, the Jews, choose to reject
me and to refuse my teachings, I will not sit in judgment on them, for I came
not to judge the world but to offer it salvation. Nevertheless, they who reject
me and refuse to receive my teaching shall be brought to judgment in due season
by my Father and those whom he has appointed to sit in judgment on such as
reject the gift of mercy and the truths of salvation. Remember, all of you,
that I speak not of myself, but that I have faithfully declared to you that
which the Father commanded I should reveal to the children of men. And these
words which the Father directed me to speak to the world are words of divine
truth, everlasting mercy, and eternal life.

"But to both Jew and gentile I declare the hour has about come when the Son of
Man will be glorified. You well know that, except a grain of wheat falls into
the earth and dies, it abides alone; but if it dies in good soil, it springs up
again to life and bears much fruit. He who selfishly loves his life stands in
danger of losing it; but he who is willing to lay down his life for my sake and
the gospel's shall enjoy a more abundant existence on earth and in heaven, life
eternal. If you will truly follow me, even after I have gone to my Father, then
shall you become my disciples and the sincere servants of your fellow mortals.

"I know my hour is approaching, and I am troubled. I perceive that my people
are determined to spurn the kingdom, but I am rejoiced to receive these
truth-seeking gentiles who come here today inquiring for the way of light.
Nevertheless, my heart aches for my people, and my soul is distraught by that
which lies just before me. What shall I say as I look ahead and discern what is
about to befall me? Shall I say, Father save me from this awful hour? No! For
this

                               top of page - 1904

very purpose have I come into the world and even to this hour. Rather will I
say, and pray that you will join me: Father, glorify your name; your will be
done."

When Jesus had thus spoken, the Personalized Adjuster of his indwelling during
prebaptismal times appeared before him, and as he paused noticeably, this now
mighty spirit of the Father's representation spoke to Jesus of Nazareth,
saying: "I have glorified my name in your bestowals many times, and I will
glorify it once more."

While the Jews and gentiles here assembled heard no voice, they could not fail
to discern that the Master had paused in his speaking while a message came to
him from some superhuman source. They all said, every man to the one who was by
him, "An angel has spoken to him."

Then Jesus continued to speak: "All this has not happened for my sake but for
yours. I know of a certainty that the Father will receive me and accept my
mission in your behalf, but it is needful that you be encouraged and be made
ready for the fiery trial which is just ahead. Let me assure you that victory
shall eventually crown our united efforts to enlighten the world and liberate
mankind. The old order is bringing itself to judgment; the Prince of this world
I have cast down; and all men shall become free by the light of the spirit
which I will pour out upon all flesh after I have ascended to my Father in
heaven.

"And now I declare to you that I, if I be lifted up on earth and in your lives,
will draw all men to myself and into the fellowship of my Father. You have
believed that the Deliverer would abide on earth forever, but I declare that
the Son of Man will be rejected by men, and that he will go back to the Father.
Only a little while will I be with you; only a little time will the living
light be among this darkened generation. Walk while you have this light so that
the oncoming darkness and confusion may not overtake you. He who walks in the
darkness knows not where he goes; but if you will choose to walk in the light,
you shall all indeed become liberated sons of God. And now, all of you, come
with me while we go back to the temple and I speak farewell words to the chief
priests, the scribes, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Herodians, and the
benighted rulers of Israel."

Having thus spoken, Jesus led the way over the narrow streets of Jerusalem back
to the temple. They had just heard the Master say that this was to be his
farewell discourse in the temple, and they followed him in silence and in deep
meditation.

                               top of page - 1905

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³    Monday In     ³     The Last      ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³     Jerus...     ³     Temple...     ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
