            Urantia Book Paper 176 Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ... Tuesday Evening On
                                  Mount Olivet
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  Paper 176 Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THIS Tuesday afternoon, as Jesus and the apostles passed out of the temple on
their way to the Gethsemane camp, Matthew, calling attention to the temple
construction, said: "Master, observe what manner of buildings these are. See
the massive stones and the beautiful adornment; can it be that these buildings
are to be destroyed?" As they went on toward Olivet, Jesus said: "You see these
stones and this massive temple; verily, verily, I say to you: In the days soon
to come there shall not be left one stone upon another. They shall all be
thrown down." These remarks depicting the destruction of the sacred temple
aroused the curiosity of the apostles as they walked along behind the Master;
they could conceive of no event short of the end of the world which would
occasion the destruction of the temple.

In order to avoid the crowds passing along the Kidron valley toward Gethsemane,
Jesus and his associates were minded to climb up the western slope of Olivet
for a short distance and then follow a trail over to their private camp near
Gethsemane located a short distance above the public camping ground. As they
turned to leave the road leading on to Bethany, they observed the temple,
glorified by the rays of the setting sun; and while they tarried on the mount,
they saw the lights of the city appear and beheld the beauty of the illuminated
temple; and there, under the mellow light of the full moon, Jesus and the
twelve sat down. The Master talked with them, and presently Nathaniel asked
this question: "Tell us, Master, how shall we know when these events are about
to come to pass?"

1. THE DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM

In answering Nathaniel's question, Jesus said: "Yes, I will tell you about the
times when this people shall have filled up the cup of their iniquity; when
justice shall swiftly descend upon this city of our fathers. I am about to
leave you; I go to the Father. After I leave you, take heed that no man deceive
you, for many will come as deliverers and will lead many astray. When you hear
of wars and rumors of wars, be not troubled, for though all these things will
happen, the end of Jerusalem is not yet at hand. You should not be perturbed by
famines or earthquakes; neither should you be concerned when you are delivered
up to the civil authorities and are persecuted for the sake of the gospel. You
will be thrown out of the synagogue and put in prison for my sake, and some of
you will be killed. When you are brought up before governors and rulers, it
shall be for a testimony of your faith and to show your steadfastness in the
gospel of the kingdom. And when you stand before judges, be not anxious
beforehand as to what you should say, for the spirit will teach you in that
very

                               top of page - 1913

hour what you should answer your adversaries. In these days of travail, even
your own kinsfolk, under the leadership of those who have rejected the Son of
Man, will deliver you up to prison and death. For a time you may be hated by
all men for my sake, but even in these persecutions I will not forsake you; my
spirit will not desert you. Be patient! doubt not that this gospel of the
kingdom will triumph over all enemies and, eventually, be proclaimed to all
nations."

Jesus paused while he looked down upon the city. The Master realized that the
rejection of the spiritual concept of the Messiah, the determination to cling
persistently and blindly to the material mission of the expected deliverer,
would presently bring the Jews in direct conflict with the powerful Roman
armies, and that such a contest could only result in the final and complete
overthrow of the Jewish nation. When his people rejected his spiritual bestowal
and refused to receive the light of heaven as it so mercifully shone upon them,
they thereby sealed their doom as an independent people with a special
spiritual mission on earth. Even the Jewish leaders subsequently recognized
that it was this secular idea of the Messiah which directly led to the
turbulence which eventually brought about their destruction.

Since Jerusalem was to become the cradle of the early gospel movement, Jesus
did not want its teachers and preachers to perish in the terrible overthrow of
the Jewish people in connection with the destruction of Jerusalem; wherefore
did he give these instructions to his followers. Jesus was much concerned lest
some of his disciples become involved in these soon-coming revolts and so
perish in the downfall of Jerusalem.

Then Andrew inquired: "But, Master, if the Holy City and the temple are to be
destroyed, and if you are not here to direct us, when should we forsake
Jerusalem?" Said Jesus: "You may remain in the city after I have gone, even
through these times of travail and bitter persecution, but when you finally see
Jerusalem being encompassed by the Roman armies after the revolt of the false
prophets, then will you know that her desolation is at hand; then must you flee
to the mountains. Let none who are in the city and around about tarry to save
aught, neither let those who are outside dare to enter therein. There will be
great tribulation, for these will be the days of gentile vengeance. And after
you have deserted the city, this disobedient people will fall by the edge of
the sword and will be led captive into all nations; and so shall Jerusalem be
trodden down by the gentiles. In the meantime, I warn you, be not deceived. If
any man comes to you, saying, `Behold, here is the Deliverer,' or `Behold,
there is he,' believe it not, for many false teachers will arise and many will
be led astray; but you should not be deceived, for I have told you all this
beforehand."

The apostles sat in silence in the moonlight for a considerable time while
these astounding predictions of the Master sank into their bewildered minds.
And it was in conformity with this very warning that practically the entire
group of believers and disciples fled from Jerusalem upon the first appearance
of the Roman troops, finding a safe shelter in Pella to the north.

Even after this explicit warning, many of Jesus' followers interpreted these
predictions as referring to the changes which would obviously occur in
Jerusalem when the reappearing of the Messiah would result in the establishment
of the New Jerusalem and in the enlargement of the city to become the world's
capital. In their minds these Jews were determined to connect the destruction
of the temple with the "end of the world." They believed this New Jerusalem
would fill all Palestine; that the end of the world would be followed by the
immediate

                               top of page - 1914

appearance of the "new heavens and the new earth." And so it was not strange
that Peter should say: "Master, we know that all things will pass away when the
new heavens and the new earth appear, but how shall we know when you will
return to bring all this about?"

When Jesus heard this, he was thoughtful for some time and then said: "You ever
err since you always try to attach the new teaching to the old; you are
determined to misunderstand all my teaching; you insist on interpreting the
gospel in accordance with your established beliefs. Nevertheless, I will try to
enlighten you."

2. THE MASTER'S SECOND COMING

On several occasions Jesus had made statements which led his hearers to infer
that, while he intended presently to leave this world, he would most certainly
return to consummate the work of the heavenly kingdom. As the conviction grew
on his followers that he was going to leave them, and after he had departed
from this world, it was only natural for all believers to lay fast hold upon
these promises to return. The doctrine of the second coming of Christ thus
became early incorporated into the teachings of the Christians, and almost
every subsequent generation of disciples has devoutly believed this truth and
has confidently looked forward to his sometime coming.

If they were to part with their Master and Teacher, how much more did these
first disciples and the apostles grasp at this promise to return, and they lost
no time in associating the predicted destruction of Jerusalem with this
promised second coming. And they continued thus to interpret his words
notwithstanding that, throughout this evening of instruction on Mount Olivet,
the Master took particular pains to prevent just such a mistake.

In further answer to Peter's question, Jesus said: "Why do you still look for
the Son of Man to sit upon the throne of David and expect that the material
dreams of the Jews will be fulfilled? Have I not told you all these years that
my kingdom is not of this world? The things which you now look down upon are
coming to an end, but this will be a new beginning out of which the gospel of
the kingdom will go to all the world and this salvation will spread to all
peoples. And when the kingdom shall have come to its full fruition, be assured
that the Father in heaven will not fail to visit you with an enlarged
revelation of truth and an enhanced demonstration of righteousness, even as he
has already bestowed upon this world him who became the prince of darkness, and
then Adam, who was followed by Melchizedek, and in these days, the Son of Man.
And so will my Father continue to manifest his mercy and show forth his love,
even to this dark and evil world. So also will I, after my Father has invested
me with all power and authority, continue to follow your fortunes and to guide
in the affairs of the kingdom by the presence of my spirit, who shall shortly
be poured out upon all flesh. Even though I shall thus be present with you in
spirit, I also promise that I will sometime return to this world, where I have
lived this life in the flesh and achieved the experience of simultaneously
revealing God to man and leading man to God. Very soon must I leave you and
take up the work the Father has intrusted to my hands, but be of good courage,
for I will sometime return. In the meantime, my Spirit of the Truth of a
universe shall comfort and guide you.

                               top of page - 1915

"You behold me now in weakness and in the flesh, but when I return, it shall be
with power and in the spirit. The eye of flesh beholds the Son of Man in the
flesh, but only the eye of the spirit will behold the Son of Man glorified by
the Father and appearing on earth in his own name.

"But the times of the reappearing of the Son of Man are known only in the
councils of Paradise; not even the angels of heaven know when this will occur.
However, you should understand that, when this gospel of the kingdom shall have
been proclaimed to all the world for the salvation of all peoples, and when the
fullness of the age has come to pass, the Father will send you another
dispensational bestowal, or else the Son of Man will return to adjudge the age.

"And now concerning the travail of Jerusalem, about which I have spoken to you,
even this generation will not pass away until my words are fulfilled; but
concerning the times of the coming again of the Son of Man, no one in heaven or
on earth may presume to speak. But you should be wise regarding the ripening of
an age; you should be alert to discern the signs of the times. You know when
the fig tree shows its tender branches and puts forth its leaves that summer is
near. Likewise, when the world has passed through the long winter of
material-mindedness and you discern the coming of the spiritual springtime of a
new dispensation, should you know that the summertime of a new visitation draws
near.

"But what is the significance of this teaching having to do with the coming of
the Sons of God? Do you not perceive that, when each of you is called to lay
down his life struggle and pass through the portal of death, you stand in the
immediate presence of judgment, and that you are face to face with the facts of
a new dispensation of service in the eternal plan of the infinite Father? What
the whole world must face as a literal fact at the end of an age, you, as
individuals, must each most certainly face as a personal experience when you
reach the end of your natural life and thereby pass on to be confronted with
the conditions and demands inherent in the next revelation of the eternal
progression of the Father's kingdom."

Of all the discourses which the Master gave his apostles, none ever became so
confused in their minds as this one, given this Tuesday evening on the Mount of
Olives, regarding the twofold subject of the destruction of Jerusalem and his
own second coming. There was, therefore, little agreement between the
subsequent written accounts based on the memories of what the Master said on
this extraordinary occasion. Consequently, when the records were left blank
concerning much that was said that Tuesday evening, there grew up many
traditions; and very early in the second century a Jewish apocalyptic about the
Messiah written by one Selta, who was attached to the court of the Emperor
Caligula, was bodily copied into the Matthew Gospel and subsequently added (in
part) to the Mark and Luke records. It was in these writings of Selta that the
parable of the ten virgins appeared. No part of the gospel record ever suffered
such confusing misconstruction as this evening's teaching. But the Apostle John
never became thus confused.

As these thirteen men resumed their journey toward the camp, they were
speechless and under great emotional tension. Judas had finally confirmed his
decision to abandon his associates. It was a late hour when David Zebedee, John
Mark, and a number of the leading disciples welcomed Jesus and the twelve to
the new camp, but the apostles did not want to sleep; they wanted to know more
about the destruction of Jerusalem, the Master's departure, and the end of the
world.

                               top of page - 1916

3. LATER DISCUSSION AT THE CAMP

As they gathered about the campfire, some twenty of them, Thomas asked: "Since
you are to return to finish the work of the kingdom, what should be our
attitude while you are away on the Father's business?" As Jesus looked them
over by the firelight, he answered:

"And even you, Thomas, fail to comprehend what I have been saying. Have I not
all this time taught you that your connection with the kingdom is spiritual and
individual, wholly a matter of personal experience in the spirit by the
faith-realization that you are a son of God? What more shall I say? The
downfall of nations, the crash of empires, the destruction of the unbelieving
Jews, the end of an age, even the end of the world, what have these things to
do with one who believes this gospel, and who has hid his life in the surety of
the eternal kingdom? You who are God-knowing and gospel-believing have already
received the assurances of eternal life. Since your lives have been lived in
the spirit and for the Father, nothing can be of serious concern to you.
Kingdom builders, the accredited citizens of the heavenly worlds, are not to be
disturbed by temporal upheavals or perturbed by terrestrial cataclysms. What
does it matter to you who believe this gospel of the kingdom if nations
overturn, the age ends, or all things visible crash, since you know that your
life is the gift of the Son, and that it is eternally secure in the Father?
Having lived the temporal life by faith and having yielded the fruits of the
spirit as the righteousness of loving service for your fellows, you can
confidently look forward to the next step in the eternal career with the same
survival faith that has carried you through your first and earthly adventure in
sonship with God.

"Each generation of believers should carry on their work, in view of the
possible return of the Son of Man, exactly as each individual believer carries
forward his lifework in view of inevitable and ever-impending natural death.
When you have by faith once established yourself as a son of God, nothing else
matters as regards the surety of survival. But make no mistake! this survival
faith is a living faith, and it increasingly manifests the fruits of that
divine spirit which first inspired it in the human heart. That you have once
accepted sonship in the heavenly kingdom will not save you in the face of the
knowing and persistent rejection of those truths which have to do with the
progressive spiritual fruit-bearing of the sons of God in the flesh. You who
have been with me in the Father's business on earth can even now desert the
kingdom if you find that you love not the way of the Father's service for
mankind.

"As individuals, and as a generation of believers, hear me while I speak a
parable: There was a certain great man who, before starting out on a long
journey to another country, called all his trusted servants before him and
delivered into their hands all his goods. To one he gave five talents, to
another two, and to another one. And so on down through the entire group of
honored stewards, to each he intrusted his goods according to their several
abilities; and then he set out on his journey. When their lord had departed,
his servants set themselves at work to gain profits from the wealth intrusted
to them. Immediately he who had received five talents began to trade with them
and very soon had made a profit of another five talents. In like manner he who
had received two talents soon had gained two more. And so did all of these
servants make gains for their master

                               top of page - 1917

except he who received but one talent. He went away by himself and dug a hole
in the earth where he hid his lord's money. Presently the lord of those
servants unexpectedly returned and called upon his stewards for a reckoning.
And when they had all been called before their master, he who had received the
five talents came forward with the money which had been intrusted to him and
brought five additional talents, saying, `Lord, you gave me five talents to
invest, and I am glad to present five other talents as my gain.' And then his
lord said to him: `Well done, good and faithful servant, you have been faithful
over a few things; I will now set you as steward over many; enter forthwith
into the joy of your lord.' And then he who had received the two talents came
forward, saying: `Lord, you delivered into my hands two talents; behold, I have
gained these other two talents.' And his lord then said to him: `Well done,
good and faithful steward; you also have been faithful over a few things, and I
will now set you over many; enter you into the joy of your lord.' And then
there came to the accounting he who had received the one talent. This servant
came forward, saying, `Lord, I knew you and realized that you were a shrewd man
in that you expected gains where you had not personally labored; therefore was
I afraid to risk aught of that which was intrusted to me. I safely hid your
talent in the earth; here it is; you now have what belongs to you.' But his
lord answered: `You are an indolent and slothful steward. By your own words you
confess that you knew I would require of you an accounting with reasonable
profit, such as your diligent fellow servants have this day rendered. Knowing
this, you ought, therefore, to have at least put my money into the hands of the
bankers that on my return I might have received my own with interest.' And then
to the chief steward this lord said: `Take away this one talent from this
unprofitable servant and give it to him who has the ten talents.'

"To every one who has, more shall be given, and he shall have abundance; but
from him who has not, even that which he has shall be taken away. You cannot
stand still in the affairs of the eternal kingdom. My Father requires all his
children to grow in grace and in a knowledge of the truth. You who know these
truths must yield the increase of the fruits of the spirit and manifest a
growing devotion to the unselfish service of your fellow servants. And remember
that, inasmuch as you minister to one of the least of my brethren, you have
done this service to me.

"And so should you go about the work of the Father's business, now and
henceforth, even forevermore. Carry on until I come. In faithfulness do that
which is intrusted to you, and thereby shall you be ready for the reckoning
call of death. And having thus lived for the glory of the Father and the
satisfaction of the Son, you shall enter with joy and exceedingly great
pleasure into the eternal service of the everlasting kingdom."

Truth is living; the Spirit of Truth is ever leading the children of light into
new realms of spiritual reality and divine service. You are not given truth to
crystallize into settled, safe, and honored forms. Your revelation of truth
must be so enhanced by passing through your personal experience that new beauty
and actual spiritual gains will be disclosed to all who behold your spiritual
fruits and in consequence thereof are led to glorify the Father who is in
heaven. Only those faithful servants who thus grow in the knowledge of the
truth, and who thereby develop the capacity for divine appreciation of
spiritual realities, can ever hope to "enter fully into the joy of their Lord."
What a sorry sight for

                               top of page - 1918

successive generations of the professed followers of Jesus to say, regarding
their stewardship of divine truth: "Here, Master, is the truth you committed to
us a hundred or a thousand years ago. We have lost nothing; we have faithfully
preserved all you gave us; we have allowed no changes to be made in that which
you taught us; here is the truth you gave us." But such a plea concerning
spiritual indolence will not justify the barren steward of truth in the
presence of the Master. In accordance with the truth committed to your hands
will the Master of truth require a reckoning.

In the next world you will be asked to give an account of the endowments and
stewardships of this world. Whether inherent talents are few or many, a just
and merciful reckoning must be faced. If endowments are used only in selfish
pursuits and no thought is bestowed upon the higher duty of obtaining increased
yield of the fruits of the spirit, as they are manifested in the ever-expanding
service of men and the worship of God, such selfish stewards must accept the
consequences of their deliberate choosing.

And how much like all selfish mortals was this unfaithful servant with the one
talent in that he blamed his slothfulness directly upon his lord. How prone is
man, when he is confronted with the failures of his own making, to put the
blame upon others, oftentimes upon those who least deserve it!

Said Jesus that night as they went to their rest: "Freely have you received;
therefore freely should you give of the truth of heaven, and in the giving will
this truth multiply and show forth the increasing light of saving grace, even
as you minister it."

4. THE RETURN OF MICHAEL

Of all the Master's teachings no one phase has been so misunderstood as his
promise sometime to come back in person to this world. It is not strange that
Michael should be interested in sometime returning to the planet whereon he
experienced his seventh and last bestowal, as a mortal of the realm. It is only
natural to believe that Jesus of Nazareth, now sovereign ruler of a vast
universe, would be interested in coming back, not only once but even many
times, to the world whereon he lived such a unique life and finally won for
himself the Father's unlimited bestowal of universe power and authority.
Urantia will eternally be one of the seven nativity spheres of Michael in the
winning of universe sovereignty.

Jesus did, on numerous occasions and to many individuals, declare his intention
of returning to this world. As his followers awakened to the fact that their
Master was not going to function as a temporal deliverer, and as they listened
to his predictions of the overthrow of Jerusalem and the downfall of the Jewish
nation, they most naturally began to associate his promised return with these
catastrophic events. But when the Roman armies leveled the walls of Jerusalem,
destroyed the temple, and dispersed the Judean Jews, and still the Master did
not reveal himself in power and glory, his followers began the formulation of
that belief which eventually associated the second coming of Christ with the
end of the age, even with the end of the world.

Jesus promised to do two things after he had ascended to the Father, and after
all power in heaven and on earth had been placed in his hands. He promised,
first, to send into the world, and in his stead, another teacher, the Spirit of
Truth; and this he did on the day of Pentecost. Second, he most certainly
promised his followers that he would sometime personally return to this world.
But he did

                               top of page - 1919

not say how, where, or when he would revisit this planet of his bestowal
experience in the flesh. On one occasion he intimated that, whereas the eye of
flesh had beheld him when he lived here in the flesh, on his return (at least
on one of his possible visits) he would be discerned only by the eye of
spiritual faith.

Many of us are inclined to believe that Jesus will return to Urantia many times
during the ages to come. We do not have his specific promise to make these
plural visits, but it seems most probable that he who carries among his
universe titles that of Planetary Prince of Urantia will many times visit the
world whose conquest conferred such a unique title upon him.

We most positively believe that Michael will again come in person to Urantia,
but we have not the slightest idea as to when or in what manner he may choose
to come. Will his second advent on earth be timed to occur in connection with
the terminal judgment of this present age, either with or without the
associated appearance of a Magisterial Son? Will he come in connection with the
termination of some subsequent Urantian age? Will he come unannounced and as an
isolated event? We do not know. Only one thing we are certain of, that is, when
he does return, all the world will likely know about it, for he must come as
the supreme ruler of a universe and not as the obscure babe of Bethlehem. But
if every eye is to behold him, and if only spiritual eyes are to discern his
presence, then must his advent be long deferred.

You would do well, therefore, to disassociate the Master's personal return to
earth from any and all set events or settled epochs. We are sure of only one
thing: He has promised to come back. We have no idea as to when he will fulfill
this promise or in what connection. As far as we know, he may appear on earth
any day, and he may not come until age after age has passed and been duly
adjudicated by his associated Sons of the Paradise corps.

The second advent of Michael on earth is an event of tremendous sentimental
value to both midwayers and humans; but otherwise it is of no immediate moment
to midwayers and of no more practical importance to human beings than the
common event of natural death, which so suddenly precipitates mortal man into
the immediate grasp of that succession of universe events which leads directly
to the presence of this same Jesus, the sovereign ruler of our universe. The
children of light are all destined to see him, and it is of no serious concern
whether we go to him or whether he should chance first to come to us. Be you
therefore ever ready to welcome him on earth as he stands ready to welcome you
in heaven. We confidently look for his glorious appearing, even for repeated
comings, but we are wholly ignorant as to how, when, or in what connection he
is destined to appear.

                               top of page - 1920

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³     The Last     ³  Wednesday, The   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³    Temple...     ³        ...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
