                Urantia Book Paper 177 Wednesday, The Rest Day
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ... Wednesday, The Rest
                                      Day
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      Paper 177 Wednesday, The Rest Day

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

WHEN the work of teaching the people did not press them, it was the custom of
Jesus and his apostles to rest from their labors each Wednesday. On this
particular Wednesday they ate breakfast somewhat later than usual, and the camp
was pervaded by an ominous silence; little was said during the first half of
this morning meal. At last Jesus spoke: "I desire that you rest today. Take
time to think over all that has happened since we came to Jerusalem and
meditate on what is just ahead, of which I have plainly told you. Make sure
that the truth abides in your lives, and that you daily grow in grace."

After breakfast the Master informed Andrew that he intended to be absent for
the day and suggested that the apostles be permitted to spend the time in
accordance with their own choosing, except that under no circumstances should
they go within the gates of Jerusalem.

When Jesus made ready to go into the hills alone, David Zebedee accosted him,
saying: "You well know, Master, that the Pharisees and rulers seek to destroy
you, and yet you make ready to go alone into the hills. To do this is folly; I
will therefore send three men with you well prepared to see that no harm
befalls you." Jesus looked over the three well-armed and stalwart Galileans and
said to David: "You mean well, but you err in that you fail to understand that
the Son of Man needs no one to defend him. No man will lay hands on me until
that hour when I am ready to lay down my life in conformity to my Father's
will. These men may not accompany me. I desire to go alone, that I may commune
with the Father."

Upon hearing these words, David and his armed guards withdrew; but as Jesus
started off alone, John Mark came forward with a small basket containing food
and water and suggested that, if he intended to be away all day, he might find
himself hungry. The Master smiled on John and reached down to take the basket.

1. ONE DAY ALONE WITH GOD

As Jesus was about to take the lunch basket from John's hand, the young man
ventured to say: "But, Master, you may set the basket down while you turn aside
to pray and go on without it. Besides, if I should go along to carry the lunch,
you would be more free to worship, and I will surely be silent. I will ask no
questions and will stay by the basket when you go apart by yourself to pray."

While making this speech, the temerity of which astonished some of the near-by
listeners, John had made bold to hold on to the basket. There they stood, both
John and Jesus holding the basket. Presently the Master let go and, looking

                               top of page - 1921

down on the lad, said: "Since with all your heart you crave to go with me, it
shall not be denied you. We will go off by ourselves and have a good visit. You
may ask me any question that arises in your heart, and we will comfort and
console each other. You may start out carrying the lunch, and when you grow
weary, I will help you. Follow on with me."

Jesus did not return to the camp that evening until after sunset. The Master
spent this last day of quiet on earth visiting with this truth-hungry youth and
talking with his Paradise Father. This event has become known on high as "the
day which a young man spent with God in the hills." Forever this occasion
exemplifies the willingness of the Creator to fellowship the creature. Even a
youth, if the desire of the heart is really supreme, can command the attention
and enjoy the loving companionship of the God of a universe, actually
experience the unforgettable ecstasy of being alone with God in the hills, and
for a whole day. And such was the unique experience of John Mark on this
Wednesday in the hills of Judea.

Jesus visited much with John, talking freely about the affairs of this world
and the next. John told Jesus how much he regretted that he had not been old
enough to be one of the apostles and expressed his great appreciation that he
had been permitted to follow on with them since their first preaching at the
Jordan ford near Jericho, except for the trip to Phoenicia. Jesus warned the
lad not to become discouraged by impending events and assured him he would live
to become a mighty messenger of the kingdom.

John Mark was thrilled by the memory of this day with Jesus in the hills, but
he never forgot the Master's final admonition, spoken just as they were about
to return to the Gethsemane camp, when he said: "Well, John, we have had a good
visit, a real day of rest, but see to it that you tell no man the things which
I told you." And John Mark never did reveal anything that transpired on this
day which he spent with Jesus in the hills.

Throughout the few remaining hours of Jesus' earth life John Mark never
permitted the Master for long to get out of his sight. Always was the lad in
hiding near by; he slept only when Jesus slept.

2. EARLY HOME LIFE

In the course of this day's visiting with John Mark, Jesus spent considerable
time comparing their early childhood and later boyhood experiences. Although
John's parents possessed more of this world's goods than had Jesus' parents,
there was much experience in their boyhood which was very similar. Jesus said
many things which helped John better to understand his parents and other
members of his family. When the lad asked the Master how he could know that he
would turn out to be a "mighty messenger of the kingdom," Jesus said:

"I know you will prove loyal to the gospel of the kingdom because I can depend
upon your present faith and love when these qualities are grounded upon such an
early training as has been your portion at home. You are the product of a home
where the parents bear each other a sincere affection, and therefore you have
not been overloved so as injuriously to exalt your concept of self-importance.
Neither has your personality suffered distortion in consequence of your
parents' loveless maneuvering for your confidence and loyalty, the one against
the other. You have enjoyed that parental love which insures laudable
self-confidence and which fosters normal feelings of security. But

                               top of page - 1922

you have also been fortunate in that your parents possessed wisdom as well as
love; and it was wisdom which led them to withhold most forms of indulgence and
many luxuries which wealth can buy while they sent you to the synagogue school
along with your neighborhood playfellows, and they also encouraged you to learn
how to live in this world by permitting you to have original experience. You
came over to the Jordan, where we preached and John's disciples baptized, with
your young friend Amos. Both of you desired to go with us. When you returned to
Jerusalem, your parents consented; Amos's parents refused; they loved their son
so much that they denied him the blessed experience which you have had, even
such as you this day enjoy. By running away from home, Amos could have joined
us, but in so doing he would have wounded love and sacrificed loyalty. Even if
such a course had been wise, it would have been a terrible price to pay for
experience, independence, and liberty. Wise parents, such as yours, see to it
that their children do not have to wound love or stifle loyalty in order to
develop independence and enjoy invigorating liberty when they have grown up to
your age.

"Love, John, is the supreme reality of the universe when bestowed by all-wise
beings, but it is a dangerous and oftentimes semiselfish trait as it is
manifested in the experience of mortal parents. When you get married and have
children of your own to rear, make sure that your love is admonished by wisdom
and guided by intelligence.

"Your young friend Amos believes this gospel of the kingdom just as much as
you, but I cannot fully depend upon him; I am not certain about what he will do
in the years to come. His early home life was not such as would produce a
wholly dependable person. Amos is too much like one of the apostles who failed
to enjoy a normal, loving, and wise home training. Your whole afterlife will be
more happy and dependable because you spent your first eight years in a normal
and well-regulated home. You possess a strong and well-knit character because
you grew up in a home where love prevailed and wisdom reigned. Such a childhood
training produces a type of loyalty which assures me that you will go through
with the course you have begun."

For more than an hour Jesus and John continued this discussion of home life.
The Master went on to explain to John how a child is wholly dependent on his
parents and the associated home life for all his early concepts of everything
intellectual, social, moral, and even spiritual since the family represents to
the young child all that he can first know of either human or divine
relationships. The child must derive his first impressions of the universe from
the mother's care; he is wholly dependent on the earthly father for his first
ideas of the heavenly Father. The child's subsequent life is made happy or
unhappy, easy or difficult, in accordance with his early mental and emotional
life, conditioned by these social and spiritual relationships of the home. A
human being's entire afterlife is enormously influenced by what happens during
the first few years of existence.

It is our sincere belief that the gospel of Jesus' teaching, founded as it is
on the father-child relationship, can hardly enjoy a world-wide acceptance
until such a time as the home life of the modern civilized peoples embraces
more of love and more of wisdom. Notwithstanding that parents of the twentieth
century possess great knowledge and increased truth for improving the home and
ennobling the home life, it remains a fact that very few modern homes are such

                               top of page - 1923

good places in which to nurture boys and girls as Jesus' home in Galilee and
John Mark's home in Judea, albeit the acceptance of Jesus' gospel will result
in the immediate improvement of home life. The love life of a wise home and the
loyal devotion of true religion exert a profound reciprocal influence upon each
other. Such a home life enhances religion, and genuine religion always
glorifies the home.

It is true that many of the objectionable stunting influences and other
cramping features of these olden Jewish homes have been virtually eliminated
from many of the better-regulated modern homes. There is, indeed, more
spontaneous freedom and far more personal liberty, but this liberty is not
restrained by love, motivated by loyalty, nor directed by the intelligent
discipline of wisdom. As long as we teach the child to pray, "Our Father who is
in heaven," a tremendous responsibility rests upon all earthly fathers so to
live and order their homes that the word father becomes worthily enshrined in
the minds and hearts of all growing children.

3. THE DAY AT CAMP

The apostles spent most of this day walking about on Mount Olivet and visiting
with the disciples who were encamped with them, but early in the afternoon they
became very desirous of seeing Jesus return. As the day wore on, they grew
increasingly anxious about his safety; they felt inexpressibly lonely without
him. There was much debating throughout the day as to whether the Master should
have been allowed to go off by himself in the hills, accompanied only by an
errand boy. Though no man openly so expressed his thoughts, there was not one
of them, save Judas Iscariot, who did not wish himself in John Mark's place.

It was about midafternoon when Nathaniel made his speech on "Supreme Desire" to
about half a dozen of the apostles and as many disciples, the ending of which
was: "What is wrong with most of us is that we are only halfhearted. We fail to
love the Master as he loves us. If we had all wanted to go with him as much as
John Mark did, he would surely have taken us all. We stood by while the lad
approached the Master and offered him the basket, but when the Master took hold
of it, the lad would not let go. And so the Master left us here while he went
off to the hills with basket, boy, and all."

About four o'clock, runners came to David Zebedee bringing him word from his
mother at Bethsaida and from Jesus' mother. Several days previously David had
made up his mind that the chief priests and rulers were going to kill Jesus.
David knew they were determined to destroy the Master, and he was about
convinced that Jesus would neither exert his divine power to save himself nor
permit his followers to employ force in his defense. Having reached these
conclusions, he lost no time in dispatching a messenger to his mother, urging
her to come at once to Jerusalem and to bring Mary the mother of Jesus and
every member of his family.

David's mother did as her son requested, and now the runners came back to David
bringing the word that his mother and Jesus' entire family were on the way to
Jerusalem and should arrive sometime late on the following day or very early
the next morning. Since David did this on his own initiative, he thought it
wise to keep the matter to himself. He told no one, therefore, that Jesus'
family was on the way to Jerusalem.

                               top of page - 1924

Shortly after noon, more than twenty of the Greeks who had met with Jesus and
the twelve at the home of Joseph of Arimathea arrived at the camp, and Peter
and John spent several hours in conference with them. These Greeks, at least
some of them, were well advanced in the knowledge of the kingdom, having been
instructed by Rodan at Alexandria.

That evening, after returning to the camp, Jesus visited with the Greeks, and
had it not been that such a course would have greatly disturbed his apostles
and many of his leading disciples, he would have ordained these twenty Greeks,
even as he had the seventy.

While all of this was going on at the camp, in Jerusalem the chief priests and
elders were amazed that Jesus did not return to address the multitudes. True,
the day before, when he left the temple, he had said, "I leave your house to
you desolate." But they could not understand why he would be willing to forego
the great advantage which he had built up in the friendly attitude of the
crowds. While they feared he would stir up a tumult among the people, the
Master's last words to the multitude had been an exhortation to conform in
every reasonable manner with the authority of those "who sit in Moses' seat."
But it was a busy day in the city as they simultaneously prepared for the
Passover and perfected their plans for destroying Jesus.

Not many people came to the camp, for its establishment had been kept a
well-guarded secret by all who knew that Jesus was expecting to stay there in
place of going out to Bethany every night.

4. JUDAS AND THE CHIEF PRIESTS

Shortly after Jesus and John Mark left the camp, Judas Iscariot disappeared
from among his brethren, not returning until late in the afternoon. This
confused and discontented apostle, notwithstanding his Master's specific
request to refrain from entering Jerusalem, went in haste to keep his
appointment with Jesus' enemies at the home of Caiaphas the high priest. This
was an informal meeting of the Sanhedrin and had been appointed for shortly
after 10 o'clock that morning. This meeting was called to discuss the nature of
the charges which should be lodged against Jesus and to decide upon the
procedure to be employed in bringing him before the Roman authorities for the
purpose of securing the necessary civil confirmation of the death sentence
which they had already passed upon him.

On the preceding day Judas had disclosed to some of his relatives and to
certain Sadducean friends of his father's family that he had reached the
conclusion that, while Jesus was a well-meaning dreamer and idealist, he was
not the expected deliverer of Israel. Judas stated that he would very much like
to find some way of withdrawing gracefully from the whole movement. His friends
flatteringly assured him that his withdrawal would be hailed by the Jewish
rulers as a great event, and that nothing would be too good for him. They led
him to believe that he would forthwith receive high honors from the Sanhedrin,
and that he would at last be in a position to erase the stigma of his
well-meant but "unfortunate association with untaught Galileans."

Judas could not quite believe that the mighty works of the Master had been
wrought by the power of the prince of devils, but he was now fully convinced

                               top of page - 1925

that Jesus would not exert his power in self-aggrandizement; he was at last
convinced that Jesus would allow himself to be destroyed by the Jewish rulers,
and he could not endure the humiliating thought of being identified with a
movement of defeat. He refused to entertain the idea of apparent failure. He
thoroughly understood the sturdy character of his Master and the keenness of
that majestic and merciful mind, yet he derived pleasure from even the partial
entertainment of the suggestion of one of his relatives that Jesus, while he
was a well-meaning fanatic, was probably not really sound of mind; that he had
always appeared to be a strange and misunderstood person.

And now, as never before, Judas found himself becoming strangely resentful that
Jesus had never assigned him a position of greater honor. All along he had
appreciated the honor of being the apostolic treasurer, but now he began to
feel that he was not appreciated; that his abilities were unrecognized. He was
suddenly overcome with indignation that Peter, James, and John should have been
honored with close association with Jesus, and at this time, when he was on the
way to the high priest's home, he was bent on getting even with Peter, James,
and John more than he was concerned with any thought of betraying Jesus. But
over and above all, just then, a new and dominating thought began to occupy the
forefront of his conscious mind: He had set out to get honor for himself, and
if this could be secured simultaneously with getting even with those who had
contributed to the greatest disappointment of his life, all the better. He was
seized with a terrible conspiracy of confusion, pride, desperation, and
determination. And so it must be plain that it was not for money that Judas was
then on his way to the home of Caiaphas to arrange for the betrayal of Jesus.

As Judas approached the home of Caiaphas, he arrived at the final decision to
abandon Jesus and his fellow apostles; and having thus made up his mind to
desert the cause of the kingdom of heaven, he was determined to secure for
himself as much as possible of that honor and glory which he had thought would
sometime be his when he first identified himself with Jesus and the new gospel
of the kingdom. All of the apostles once shared this ambition with Judas, but
as time passed they learned to admire truth and to love Jesus, at least more
than did Judas.

The traitor was presented to Caiaphas and the Jewish rulers by his cousin, who
explained that Judas, having discovered his mistake in allowing himself to be
misled by the subtle teaching of Jesus, had arrived at the place where he
wished to make public and formal renunciation of his association with the
Galilean and at the same time to ask for reinstatement in the confidence and
fellowship of his Judean brethren. This spokesman for Judas went on to explain
that Judas recognized it would be best for the peace of Israel if Jesus should
be taken into custody, and that, as evidence of his sorrow in having
participated in such a movement of error and as proof of his sincerity in now
returning to the teachings of Moses, he had come to offer himself to the
Sanhedrin as one who could so arrange with the captain holding the orders for
Jesus' arrest that he could be taken into custody quietly, thus avoiding any
danger of stirring up the multitudes or the necessity of postponing his arrest
until after the Passover.

When his cousin had finished speaking, he presented Judas, who, stepping
forward near the high priest, said: "All that my cousin has promised, I will
do, but what are you willing to give me for this service?" Judas did not seem
to discern the look of disdain and even disgust that came over the face of the

                               top of page - 1926

hardhearted and vainglorious Caiaphas; his heart was too much set on self-glory
and the craving for the satisfaction of self-exaltation.

And then Caiaphas looked down upon the betrayer while he said: "Judas, you go
to the captain of the guard and arrange with that officer to bring your Master
to us either tonight or tomorrow night, and when he has been delivered by you
into our hands, you shall receive your reward for this service." When Judas
heard this, he went forth from the presence of the chief priests and rulers and
took counsel with the captain of the temple guards as to the manner in which
Jesus was to be apprehended. Judas knew that Jesus was then absent from the
camp and had no idea when he would return that evening, and so they agreed
among themselves to arrest Jesus the next evening (Thursday) after the people
of Jerusalem and all of the visiting pilgrims had retired for the night.

Judas returned to his associates at the camp intoxicated with thoughts of
grandeur and glory such as he had not had for many a day. He had enlisted with
Jesus hoping some day to become a great man in the new kingdom. He at last
realized that there was to be no new kingdom such as he had anticipated. But he
rejoiced in being so sagacious as to trade off his disappointment in failing to
achieve glory in an anticipated new kingdom for the immediate realization of
honor and reward in the old order, which he now believed would survive, and
which he was certain would destroy Jesus and all that he stood for. In its last
motive of conscious intention, Judas's betrayal of Jesus was the cowardly act
of a selfish deserter whose only thought was his own safety and glorification,
no matter what might be the results of his conduct upon his Master and upon his
former associates.

But it was ever just that way. Judas had long been engaged in this deliberate,
persistent, selfish, and vengeful consciousness of progressively building up in
his mind, and entertaining in his heart, these hateful and evil desires of
revenge and disloyalty. Jesus loved and trusted Judas even as he loved and
trusted the other apostles, but Judas failed to develop loyal trust and to
experience wholehearted love in return. And how dangerous ambition can become
when it is once wholly wedded to self-seeking and supremely motivated by sullen
and long-suppressed vengeance! What a crushing thing is disappointment in the
lives of those foolish persons who, in fastening their gaze on the shadowy and
evanescent allurements of time, become blinded to the higher and more real
achievements of the everlasting attainments of the eternal worlds of divine
values and true spiritual realities. Judas craved worldly honor in his mind and
grew to love this desire with his whole heart; the other apostles likewise
craved this same worldly honor in their minds, but with their hearts they loved
Jesus and were doing their best to learn to love the truths which he taught
them.

Judas did not realize it at this time, but he had been a subconscious critic of
Jesus ever since John the Baptist was beheaded by Herod. Deep down in his heart
Judas always resented the fact that Jesus did not save John. You should not
forget that Judas had been a disciple of John before he became a follower of
Jesus. And all these accumulations of human resentment and bitter
disappointment which Judas had laid by in his soul in habiliments of hate were
now well organized in his subconscious mind and ready to spring up to engulf
him when he once dared to separate himself from the supporting influence of his
brethren while at the same time exposing himself to the clever insinuations and
subtle ridicule of the enemies of Jesus. Every time Judas allowed his hopes to
soar high and Jesus would do or say something to dash them to pieces,

                               top of page - 1927

there was always left in Judas's heart a scar of bitter resentment; and as
these scars multiplied, presently that heart, so often wounded, lost all real
affection for the one who had inflicted this distasteful experience upon a
well-intentioned but cowardly and self-centered personality. Judas did not
realize it, but he was a coward. Accordingly was he always inclined to assign
to Jesus cowardice as the motive which led him so often to refuse to grasp for
power or glory when they were apparently within his easy reach. And every
mortal man knows full well how love, even when once genuine, can, through
disappointment, jealousy, and long-continued resentment, be eventually turned
into actual hate.

At last the chief priests and elders could breathe easily for a few hours. They
would not have to arrest Jesus in public, and the securing of Judas as a
traitorous ally insured that Jesus would not escape from their jurisdiction as
he had so many times in the past.

5. THE LAST SOCIAL HOUR

Since it was Wednesday, this evening at the camp was a social hour. The Master
endeavored to cheer his downcast apostles, but that was well-nigh impossible.
They were all beginning to realize that disconcerting and crushing events were
impending. They could not be cheerful, even when the Master recounted their
years of eventful and loving association. Jesus made careful inquiry about the
families of all of the apostles and, looking over toward David Zebedee, asked
if anyone had heard recently from his mother, his youngest sister, or other
members of his family. David looked down at his feet; he was afraid to answer.

This was the occasion of Jesus' warning his followers to beware of the support
of the multitude. He recounted their experiences in Galilee when time and again
great throngs of people enthusiastically followed them around and then just as
ardently turned against them and returned to their former ways of believing and
living. And then he said: "And so you must not allow yourselves to be deceived
by the great crowds who heard us in the temple, and who seemed to believe our
teachings. These multitudes listen to the truth and believe it superficially
with their minds, but few of them permit the word of truth to strike down into
the heart with living roots. Those who know the gospel only in the mind, and
who have not experienced it in the heart, cannot be depended upon for support
when real trouble comes. When the rulers of the Jews reach an agreement to
destroy the Son of Man, and when they strike with one accord, you will see the
multitude either flee in dismay or else stand by in silent amazement while
these maddened and blinded rulers lead the teachers of the gospel truth to
their death. And then, when adversity and persecution descend upon you, still
others whom you think love the truth will be scattered, and some will renounce
the gospel and desert you. Some who have been very close to us have already
made up their minds to desert. You have rested today in preparation for those
times which are now upon us. Watch, therefore, and pray that on the morrow you
may be strengthened for the days that are just ahead."

The atmosphere of the camp was charged with an inexplicable tension. Silent
messengers came and went, communicating with only David Zebedee. Before the
evening had passed, certain ones knew that Lazarus had taken hasty flight from
Bethany. John Mark was ominously silent after returning to camp,
notwithstanding he had spent the whole day in the Master's company. Every
effort

                               top of page - 1928

to persuade him to talk only indicated clearly that Jesus had told him not to
talk.

Even the Master's good cheer and his unusual sociability frightened them. They
all felt the certain drawing upon them of the terrible isolation which they
realized was about to descend with crashing suddenness and inescapable terror.
They vaguely sensed what was coming, and none felt prepared to face the test.
The Master had been away all day; they had missed him tremendously.

This Wednesday evening was the low-tide mark of their spiritual status up to
the actual hour of the Master's death. Although the next day was one more day
nearer the tragic Friday, still, he was with them, and they passed through its
anxious hours more gracefully.

It was just before midnight when Jesus, knowing this would be the last night he
would ever sleep through with his chosen family on earth, said, as he dispersed
them for the night: "Go to your sleep, my brethren, and peace be upon you till
we rise on the morrow, one more day to do the Father's will and experience the
joy of knowing that we are his sons."

                               top of page - 1929

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³     Tuesday      ³    Last Day At    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³    Evening...    ³      The...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
