                 Urantia Book Paper 178 Last Day At The Camp
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
 To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ... Last Day At The Camp
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        Paper 178 Last Day At The Camp

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

JESUS planned to spend this Thursday, his last free day on earth as a divine
Son incarnated in the flesh, with his apostles and a few loyal and devoted
disciples. Soon after the breakfast hour on this beautiful morning, the Master
led them to a secluded spot a short distance above their camp and there taught
them many new truths. Although Jesus delivered other discourses to the apostles
during the early evening hours of the day, this talk of Thursday forenoon was
his farewell address to the combined camp group of apostles and chosen
disciples, both Jews and gentiles. The twelve were all present save Judas.
Peter and several of the apostles remarked about his absence, and some of them
thought Jesus had sent him into the city to attend to some matter, probably to
arrange the details of their forthcoming celebration of the Passover. Judas did
not return to the camp until midafternoon, a short time before Jesus led the
twelve into Jerusalem to partake of the Last Supper.

1. DISCOURSE ON SONSHIP AND CITIZENSHIP

Jesus talked to about fifty of his trusted followers for almost two hours and
answered a score of questions regarding the relation of the kingdom of heaven
to the kingdoms of this world, concerning the relation of sonship with God to
citizenship in earthly governments. This discourse, together with his answers
to questions, may be summarized and restated in modern language as follows:

The kingdoms of this world, being material, may often find it necessary to
employ physical force in the execution of their laws and for the maintenance of
order. In the kingdom of heaven true believers will not resort to the
employment of physical force. The kingdom of heaven, being a spiritual
brotherhood of the spirit-born sons of God, may be promulgated only by the
power of the spirit. This distinction of procedure refers to the relations of
the kingdom of believers to the kingdoms of secular government and does not
nullify the right of social groups of believers to maintain order in their
ranks and administer discipline upon unruly and unworthy members.

There is nothing incompatible between sonship in the spiritual kingdom and
citizenship in the secular or civil government. It is the believer's duty to
render to Caesar the things which are Caesar's and to God the things which are
God's. There cannot be any disagreement between these two requirements, the one
being material and the other spiritual, unless it should develop that a Caesar
presumes to usurp the prerogatives of God and demand that spiritual homage and
supreme worship be rendered to him. In such a case you shall worship

                               top of page - 1930

only God while you seek to enlighten such misguided earthly rulers and in this
way lead them also to the recognition of the Father in heaven. You shall not
render spiritual worship to earthly rulers; neither should you employ the
physical forces of earthly governments, whose rulers may sometime become
believers, in the work of furthering the mission of the spiritual kingdom.

Sonship in the kingdom, from the standpoint of advancing civilization, should
assist you in becoming the ideal citizens of the kingdoms of this world since
brotherhood and service are the cornerstones of the gospel of the kingdom. The
love call of the spiritual kingdom should prove to be the effective destroyer
of the hate urge of the unbelieving and war-minded citizens of the earthly
kingdoms. But these material-minded sons in darkness will never know of your
spiritual light of truth unless you draw very near them with that unselfish
social service which is the natural outgrowth of the bearing of the fruits of
the spirit in the life experience of each individual believer.

As mortal and material men, you are indeed citizens of the earthly kingdoms,
and you should be good citizens, all the better for having become reborn spirit
sons of the heavenly kingdom. As faith-enlightened and spirit-liberated sons of
the kingdom of heaven, you face a double responsibility of duty to man and duty
to God while you voluntarily assume a third and sacred obligation: service to
the brotherhood of God-knowing believers.

You may not worship your temporal rulers, and you should not employ temporal
power in the furtherance of the spiritual kingdom; but you should manifest the
righteous ministry of loving service to believers and unbelievers alike. In the
gospel of the kingdom there resides the mighty Spirit of Truth, and presently I
will pour out this same spirit upon all flesh. The fruits of the spirit, your
sincere and loving service, are the mighty social lever to uplift the races of
darkness, and this Spirit of Truth will become your power-multiplying fulcrum.

Display wisdom and exhibit sagacity in your dealings with unbelieving civil
rulers. By discretion show yourselves to be expert in ironing out minor
disagreements and in adjusting trifling misunderstandings. In every possible
way--in everything short of your spiritual allegiance to the rulers of the
universe--seek to live peaceably with all men. Be you always as wise as
serpents but as harmless as doves.

You should be made all the better citizens of the secular government as a
result of becoming enlightened sons of the kingdom; so should the rulers of
earthly governments become all the better rulers in civil affairs as a result
of believing this gospel of the heavenly kingdom. The attitude of unselfish
service of man and intelligent worship of God should make all kingdom believers
better world citizens, while the attitude of honest citizenship and sincere
devotion to one's temporal duty should help to make such a citizen the more
easily reached by the spirit call to sonship in the heavenly kingdom.

So long as the rulers of earthly governments seek to exercise the authority of
religious dictators, you who believe this gospel can expect only trouble,
persecution, and even death. But the very light which you bear to the world,
and even the very manner in which you will suffer and die for this gospel of
the kingdom, will, in themselves, eventually enlighten the whole world and
result in the gradual divorcement of politics and religion. The persistent
preaching of this gospel of the kingdom will some day bring to all nations a
new and unbelievable liberation, intellectual freedom, and religious liberty.

                               top of page - 1931

Under the soon-coming persecutions by those who hate this gospel of joy and
liberty, you will thrive and the kingdom will prosper. But you will stand in
grave danger in subsequent times when most men will speak well of kingdom
believers and many in high places nominally accept the gospel of the heavenly
kingdom. Learn to be faithful to the kingdom even in times of peace and
prosperity. Tempt not the angels of your supervision to lead you in troublous
ways as a loving discipline designed to save your ease-drifting souls.

Remember that you are commissioned to preach this gospel of the kingdom--the
supreme desire to do the Father's will coupled with the supreme joy of the
faith realization of sonship with God--and you must not allow anything to
divert your devotion to this one duty. Let all mankind benefit from the
overflow of your loving spiritual ministry, enlightening intellectual
communion, and uplifting social service; but none of these humanitarian labors,
nor all of them, should be permitted to take the place of proclaiming the
gospel. These mighty ministrations are the social by-products of the still more
mighty and sublime ministrations and transformations wrought in the heart of
the kingdom believer by the living Spirit of Truth and by the personal
realization that the faith of a spirit-born man confers the assurance of living
fellowship with the eternal God.

You must not seek to promulgate truth nor to establish righteousness by the
power of civil governments or by the enaction of secular laws. You may always
labor to persuade men's minds, but you must never dare to compel them. You must
not forget the great law of human fairness which I have taught you in positive
form: Whatsoever you would that men should do to you, do even so to them.

When a kingdom believer is called upon to serve the civil government, let him
render such service as a temporal citizen of such a government, albeit such a
believer should display in his civil service all of the ordinary traits of
citizenship as these have been enhanced by the spiritual enlightenment of the
ennobling association of the mind of mortal man with the indwelling spirit of
the eternal God. If the unbeliever can qualify as a superior civil servant, you
should seriously question whether the roots of truth in your heart have not
died from the lack of the living waters of combined spiritual communion and
social service. The consciousness of sonship with God should quicken the entire
life service of every man, woman, and child who has become the possessor of
such a mighty stimulus to all the inherent powers of a human personality.

You are not to be passive mystics or colorless ascetics; you should not become
dreamers and drifters, supinely trusting in a fictitious Providence to provide
even the necessities of life. You are indeed to be gentle in your dealings with
erring mortals, patient in your intercourse with ignorant men, and forbearing
under provocation; but you are also to be valiant in defense of righteousness,
mighty in the promulgation of truth, and aggressive in the preaching of this
gospel of the kingdom, even to the ends of the earth.

This gospel of the kingdom is a living truth. I have told you it is like the
leaven in the dough, like the grain of mustard seed; and now I declare that it
is like the seed of the living being, which, from generation to generation,
while it remains the same living seed, unfailingly unfolds itself in new
manifestations and grows acceptably in channels of new adaptation to the
peculiar needs and conditions of each successive generation. The revelation I
have made to you is a living revelation, and I desire that it shall bear
appropriate fruits in each individual and in each generation in accordance with
the laws of spiritual growth,

                               top of page - 1932

increase, and adaptative development. From generation to generation this gospel
must show increasing vitality and exhibit greater depth of spiritual power. It
must not be permitted to become merely a sacred memory, a mere tradition about
me and the times in which we now live.

And forget not: We have made no direct attack upon the persons or upon the
authority of those who sit in Moses' seat; we only offered them the new light,
which they have so vigorously rejected. We have assailed them only by the
denunciation of their spiritual disloyalty to the very truths which they
profess to teach and safeguard. We clashed with these established leaders and
recognized rulers only when they threw themselves directly in the way of the
preaching of the gospel of the kingdom to the sons of men. And even now, it is
not we who assail them, but they who seek our destruction. Do not forget that
you are commissioned to go forth preaching only the good news. You are not to
attack the old ways; you are skillfully to put the leaven of new truth in the
midst of the old beliefs. Let the Spirit of Truth do his own work. Let
controversy come only when they who despise the truth force it upon you. But
when the willful unbeliever attacks you, do not hesitate to stand in vigorous
defense of the truth which has saved and sanctified you.

Throughout the vicissitudes of life, remember always to love one another. Do
not strive with men, even with unbelievers. Show mercy even to those who
despitefully abuse you. Show yourselves to be loyal citizens, upright artisans,
praiseworthy neighbors, devoted kinsmen, understanding parents, and sincere
believers in the brotherhood of the Father's kingdom. And my spirit shall be
upon you, now and even to the end of the world.

When Jesus had concluded his teaching, it was almost one o'clock, and they
immediately went back to the camp, where David and his associates had lunch
ready for them.

2. AFTER THE NOONTIME MEAL

Not many of the Master's hearers were able to take in even a part of his
forenoon address. Of all who heard him, the Greeks comprehended most. Even the
eleven apostles were bewildered by his allusions to future political kingdoms
and to successive generations of kingdom believers. Jesus' most devoted
followers could not reconcile the impending end of his earthly ministry with
these references to an extended future of gospel activities. Some of these
Jewish believers were beginning to sense that earth's greatest tragedy was
about to take place, but they could not reconcile such an impending disaster
with either the Master's cheerfully indifferent personal attitude or his
forenoon discourse, wherein he repeatedly alluded to the future transactions of
the heavenly kingdom, extending over vast stretches of time and embracing
relations with many and successive temporal kingdoms on earth.

By noon of this day all the apostles and disciples had learned about the hasty
flight of Lazarus from Bethany. They began to sense the grim determination of
the Jewish rulers to exterminate Jesus and his teachings.

David Zebedee, through the work of his secret agents in Jerusalem, was fully
advised concerning the progress of the plan to arrest and kill Jesus. He knew
all about the part of Judas in this plot, but he never disclosed this knowledge
to the other apostles nor to any of the disciples. Shortly after lunch he did

                               top of page - 1933

lead Jesus aside and, making bold, asked him whether he knew--but he never got
further with his question. The Master, holding up his hand, stopped him,
saying: "Yes, David, I know all about it, and I know that you know, but see to
it that you tell no man. Only doubt not in your own heart that the will of God
will prevail in the end."

This conversation with David was interrupted by the arrival of a messenger from
Philadelphia bringing word that Abner had heard of the plot to kill Jesus and
asking if he should depart for Jerusalem. This runner hastened off for
Philadelphia with this word for Abner: "Go on with your work. If I depart from
you in the flesh, it is only that I may return in the spirit. I will not
forsake you. I will be with you to the end."

About this time Philip came to the Master and asked: "Master, seeing that the
time of the Passover draws near, where would you have us prepare to eat it?"
And when Jesus heard Philip's question, he answered: "Go and bring Peter and
John, and I will give you directions concerning the supper we will eat together
this night. As for the Passover, that you will have to consider after we have
first done this."

When Judas heard the Master speaking with Philip about these matters, he drew
closer that he might overhear their conversation. But David Zebedee, who was
standing near, stepped up and engaged Judas in conversation while Philip,
Peter, and John went to one side to talk with the Master.

Said Jesus to the three: "Go immediately into Jerusalem, and as you enter the
gate, you will meet a man bearing a water pitcher. He will speak to you, and
then shall you follow him. When he leads you to a certain house, go in after
him and ask of the good man of that house, `Where is the guest chamber wherein
the Master is to eat supper with his apostles?' And when you have thus
inquired, this householder will show you a large upper room all furnished and
ready for us."

When the apostles reached the city, they met the man with the water pitcher
near the gate and followed on after him to the home of John Mark, where the
lad's father met them and showed them the upper room in readiness for the
evening meal.

And all of this came to pass as the result of an understanding arrived at
between the Master and John Mark during the afternoon of the preceding day when
they were alone in the hills. Jesus wanted to be sure he would have this one
last meal undisturbed with his apostles, and believing if Judas knew beforehand
of their place of meeting he might arrange with his enemies to take him, he
made this secret arrangement with John Mark. In this way Judas did not learn of
their place of meeting until later on when he arrived there in company with
Jesus and the other apostles.

David Zebedee had much business to transact with Judas so that he was easily
prevented from following Peter, John, and Philip, as he so much desired to do.
When Judas gave David a certain sum of money for provisions, David said to him:
"Judas, might it not be well, under the circumstances, to provide me with a
little money in advance of my actual needs?" And after Judas had reflected for
a moment, he answered: "Yes, David, I think it would be wise. In fact, in view
of the disturbed conditions in Jerusalem, I think it would be best for me to
turn over all the money to you. They plot against the Master, and in case
anything should happen to me, you would not be hampered."

                               top of page - 1934

And so David received all the apostolic cash funds and receipts for all money
on deposit. Not until the evening of the next day did the apostles learn of
this transaction.

It was about half past four o'clock when the three apostles returned and
informed Jesus that everything was in readiness for the supper. The Master
immediately prepared to lead his twelve apostles over the trail to the Bethany
road and on into Jerusalem. And this was the last journey he ever made with all
twelve of them.

3. ON THE WAY TO THE SUPPER

Seeking again to avoid the crowds passing through the Kidron valley back and
forth between Gethsemane Park and Jerusalem, Jesus and the twelve walked over
the western brow of Mount Olivet to meet the road leading from Bethany down to
the city. As they drew near the place where Jesus had tarried the previous
evening to discourse on the destruction of Jerusalem, they unconsciously paused
while they stood and looked down in silence upon the city. As they were a
little early, and since Jesus did not wish to pass through the city until after
sunset, he said to his associates:

"Sit down and rest yourselves while I talk with you about what must shortly
come to pass. All these years have I lived with you as brethren, and I have
taught you the truth concerning the kingdom of heaven and have revealed to you
the mysteries thereof. And my Father has indeed done many wonderful works in
connection with my mission on earth. You have been witnesses of all this and
partakers in the experience of being laborers together with God. And you will
bear me witness that I have for some time warned you that I must presently
return to the work the Father has given me to do; I have plainly told you that
I must leave you in the world to carry on the work of the kingdom. It was for
this purpose that I set you apart, in the hills of Capernaum. The experience
you have had with me, you must now make ready to share with others. As the
Father sent me into this world, so am I about to send you forth to represent me
and finish the work I have begun.

"You look down on yonder city in sorrow, for you have heard my words telling of
the end of Jerusalem. I have forewarned you lest you should perish in her
destruction and so delay the proclamation of the gospel of the kingdom.
Likewise do I warn you to take heed lest you needlessly expose yourselves to
peril when they come to take the Son of Man. I must go, but you are to remain
to witness to this gospel when I have gone, even as I directed that Lazarus
flee from the wrath of man that he might live to make known the glory of God.
If it is the Father's will that I depart, nothing you may do can frustrate the
divine plan. Take heed to yourselves lest they kill you also. Let your souls be
valiant in defense of the gospel by spirit power but be not misled into any
foolish attempt to defend the Son of Man. I need no defense by the hand of man;
the armies of heaven are even now near at hand; but I am determined to do the
will of my Father in heaven, and therefore must we submit to that which is so
soon to come upon us.

"When you see this city destroyed, forget not that you have entered already
upon the eternal life of endless service in the ever-advancing kingdom of
heaven, even of the heaven of heavens. You should know that in my Father's
universe and in mine are many abodes, and that there awaits the children of
light the

                               top of page - 1935

revelation of cities whose builder is God and worlds whose habit of life is
righteousness and joy in the truth. I have brought the kingdom of heaven to you
here on earth, but I declare that all of you who by faith enter therein and
remain therein by the living service of truth, shall surely ascend to the
worlds on high and sit with me in the spirit kingdom of our Father. But first
must you gird yourselves and complete the work which you have begun with me.
You must first pass through much tribulation and endure many sorrows--and these
trials are even now upon us--and when you have finished your work on earth, you
shall come to my joy, even as I have finished my Father's work on earth and am
about to return to his embrace."

When the Master had spoken, he arose, and they all followed him down Olivet and
into the city. None of the apostles, save three, knew where they were going as
they made their way along the narrow streets in the approaching darkness. The
crowds jostled them, but no one recognized them nor knew that the Son of God
was passing by on his way to the last mortal rendezvous with his chosen
ambassadors of the kingdom. And neither did the apostles know that one of their
own number had already entered into a conspiracy to betray the Master into the
hands of his enemies.

John Mark had followed them all the way into the city, and after they had
entered the gate, he hurried on by another street so that he was waiting to
welcome them to his father's home when they arrived.

                               top of page - 1936

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                 ³                   ³        ³            ³
³  Wednesday, The  ³ The Last Supper ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³  SiteMap!  ³
³       ...        ³                 ³       PA...       ³        ³            ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
