            Urantia Book Paper 181 Final Admonitions And Warnings
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ... Final Admonitions And
                                    Warnings
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Paper 181 Final Admonitions And Warnings

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

AFTER the conclusion of the farewell discourse to the eleven, Jesus visited
informally with them and recounted many experiences which concerned them as a
group and as individuals. At last it was beginning to dawn upon these Galileans
that their friend and teacher was going to leave them, and their hope grasped
at the promise that, after a little while, he would again be with them, but
they were prone to forget that this return visit was also for a little while.
Many of the apostles and the leading disciples really thought that this promise
to return for a short season (the short interval between the resurrection and
the ascension) indicated that Jesus was just going away for a brief visit with
his Father, after which he would return to establish the kingdom. And such an
interpretation of his teaching conformed both with their preconceived beliefs
and with their ardent hopes. Since their lifelong beliefs and hopes of wish
fulfillment were thus agreed, it was not difficult for them to find an
interpretation of the Master's words which would justify their intense
longings.

After the farewell discourse had been discussed and had begun to settle down in
their minds, Jesus again called the apostles to order and began the impartation
of his final admonitions and warnings.

1. LAST WORDS OF COMFORT

When the eleven had taken their seats, Jesus stood and addressed them: "As long
as I am with you in the flesh, I can be but one individual in your midst or in
the entire world. But when I have been delivered from this investment of mortal
nature, I will be able to return as a spirit indweller of each of you and of
all other believers in this gospel of the kingdom. In this way the Son of Man
will become a spiritual incarnation in the souls of all true believers.

"When I have returned to live in you and work through you, I can the better
lead you on through this life and guide you through the many abodes in the
future life in the heaven of heavens. Life in the Father's eternal creation is
not an endless rest of idleness and selfish ease but rather a ceaseless
progression in grace, truth, and glory. Each of the many, many stations in my
Father's house is a stopping place, a life designed to prepare you for the next
one ahead. And so will the children of light go on from glory to glory until
they attain the divine estate wherein they are spiritually perfected even as
the Father is perfect in all things.

"If you would follow after me when I leave you, put forth your earnest efforts
to live in accordance with the spirit of my teachings and with the ideal of my
life--the doing of my Father's will. This do instead of trying to imitate my
natural life in the flesh as I have, perforce, been required to live it on this
world.

                               top of page - 1954

"The Father sent me into this world, but only a few of you have chosen fully to
receive me. I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh, but all men will not
choose to receive this new teacher as the guide and counselor of the soul. But
as many as do receive him shall be enlightened, cleansed, and comforted. And
this Spirit of Truth will become in them a well of living water springing up
into eternal life.

"And now, as I am about to leave you, I would speak words of comfort. Peace I
leave with you; my peace I give to you. I make these gifts not as the world
gives--by measure--I give each of you all you will receive. Let not your heart
be troubled, neither let it be fearful. I have overcome the world, and in me
you shall all triumph through faith. I have warned you that the Son of Man will
be killed, but I assure you I will come back before I go to the Father, even
though it be for only a little while. And after I have ascended to the Father,
I will surely send the new teacher to be with you and to abide in your very
hearts. And when you see all this come to pass, be not dismayed, but rather
believe, inasmuch as you knew it all beforehand. I have loved you with a great
affection, and I would not leave you, but it is the Father's will. My hour has
come.

"Doubt not any of these truths even after you are scattered abroad by
persecution and are downcast by many sorrows. When you feel that you are alone
in the world, I will know of your isolation even as, when you are scattered
every man to his own place, leaving the Son of Man in the hands of his enemies,
you will know of mine. But I am never alone; always is the Father with me. Even
at such a time I will pray for you. And all of these things have I told you
that you might have peace and have it more abundantly. In this world you will
have tribulation, but be of good cheer; I have triumphed in the world and shown
you the way to eternal joy and everlasting service."

Jesus gives peace to his fellow doers of the will of God but not on the order
of the joys and satisfactions of this material world. Unbelieving materialists
and fatalists can hope to enjoy only two kinds of peace and soul comfort:
Either they must be stoics, with steadfast resolution determined to face the
inevitable and to endure the worst; or they must be optimists, ever indulging
that hope which springs eternal in the human breast, vainly longing for a peace
which never really comes.

A certain amount of both stoicism and optimism are serviceable in living a life
on earth, but neither has aught to do with that superb peace which the Son of
God bestows upon his brethren in the flesh. The peace which Michael gives his
children on earth is that very peace which filled his own soul when he himself
lived the mortal life in the flesh and on this very world. The peace of Jesus
is the joy and satisfaction of a God-knowing individual who has achieved the
triumph of learning fully how to do the will of God while living the mortal
life in the flesh. The peace of Jesus' mind was founded on an absolute human
faith in the actuality of the divine Father's wise and sympathetic overcare.
Jesus had trouble on earth, he has even been falsely called the "man of
sorrows," but in and through all of these experiences he enjoyed the comfort of
that confidence which ever empowered him to proceed with his life purpose in
the full assurance that he was achieving the Father's will.

Jesus was determined, persistent, and thoroughly devoted to the accomplishment
of his mission, but he was not an unfeeling and calloused stoic; he ever

                               top of page - 1955

sought for the cheerful aspects of his life experiences, but he was not a blind
and self-deceived optimist. The Master knew all that was to befall him, and he
was unafraid. After he had bestowed this peace upon each of his followers, he
could consistently say, "Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be
afraid."

The peace of Jesus is, then, the peace and assurance of a son who fully
believes that his career for time and eternity is safely and wholly in the care
and keeping of an all-wise, all-loving, and all-powerful spirit Father. And
this is, indeed, a peace which passes the understanding of mortal mind, but
which can be enjoyed to the full by the believing human heart.

2. FAREWELL PERSONAL ADMONITIONS

The Master had finished giving his farewell instructions and imparting his
final admonitions to the apostles as a group. He then addressed himself to
saying good-bye individually and to giving each a word of personal advice,
together with his parting blessing. The apostles were still seated about the
table as when they first sat down to partake of the Last Supper, and as the
Master went around the table talking to them, each man rose to his feet when
Jesus addressed him.

To John, Jesus said: "You, John, are the youngest of my brethren. You have been
very near me, and while I love you all with the same love which a father
bestows upon his sons, you were designated by Andrew as one of the three who
should always be near me. Besides this, you have acted for me and must continue
so to act in many matters concerning my earthly family. And I go to the Father,
John, having full confidence that you will continue to watch over those who are
mine in the flesh. See to it that their present confusion regarding my mission
does not in any way prevent your extending to them all sympathy, counsel, and
help even as you know I would if I were to remain in the flesh. And when they
all come to see the light and enter fully into the kingdom, while you all will
welcome them joyously, I depend upon you, John, to welcome them for me.

"And now, as I enter upon the closing hours of my earthly career, remain near
at hand that I may leave any message with you regarding my family. As concerns
the work put in my hands by the Father, it is now finished except for my death
in the flesh, and I am ready to drink this last cup. But as for the
responsibilities left to me by my earthly father, Joseph, while I have attended
to these during my life, I must now depend upon you to act in my stead in all
these matters. And I have chosen you to do this for me, John, because you are
the youngest and will therefore very likely outlive these other apostles.

"Once we called you and your brother sons of thunder. You started out with us
strong-minded and intolerant, but you have changed much since you wanted me to
call fire down upon the heads of ignorant and thoughtless unbelievers. And you
must change yet more. You should become the apostle of the new commandment
which I have this night given you. Dedicate your life to teaching your brethren
how to love one another, even as I have loved you."

As John Zebedee stood there in the upper chamber, the tears rolling down his
cheeks, he looked into the Master's face and said: "And so I will, my Master,
but how can I learn to love my brethren more?" And then answered Jesus: "You
will learn to love your brethren more when you first learn to love their Father
in heaven more, and after you have become truly more interested in

                               top of page - 1956

their welfare in time and in eternity. And all such human interest is fostered
by understanding sympathy, unselfish service, and unstinted forgiveness. No man
should despise your youth, but I exhort you always to give due consideration to
the fact that age oftentimes represents experience, and that nothing in human
affairs can take the place of actual experience. Strive to live peaceably with
all men, especially your friends in the brotherhood of the heavenly kingdom.
And, John, always remember, strive not with the souls you would win for the
kingdom."

And then the Master, passing around his own seat, paused a moment by the side
of the place of Judas Iscariot. The apostles were rather surprised that Judas
had not returned before this, and they were very curious to know the
significance of Jesus' sad countenance as he stood by the betrayer's vacant
seat. But none of them, except possibly Andrew, entertained even the slightest
thought that their treasurer had gone out to betray his Master, as Jesus had
intimated to them earlier in the evening and during the supper. So much had
been going on that, for the time being, they had quite forgotten about the
Master's announcement that one of them would betray him.

Jesus now went over to Simon Zelotes, who stood up and listened to this
admonition: "You are a true son of Abraham, but what a time I have had trying
to make you a son of this heavenly kingdom. I love you and so do all of your
brethren. I know that you love me, Simon, and that you also love the kingdom,
but you are still set on making this kingdom come according to your liking. I
know full well that you will eventually grasp the spiritual nature and meaning
of my gospel, and that you will do valiant work in its proclamation, but I am
distressed about what may happen to you when I depart. I would rejoice to know
that you would not falter; I would be made happy if I could know that, after I
go to the Father, you would not cease to be my apostle, and that you would
acceptably deport yourself as an ambassador of the heavenly kingdom."

Jesus had hardly ceased speaking to Simon Zelotes when the fiery patriot,
drying his eyes, replied: "Master, have no fears for my loyalty. I have turned
my back upon everything that I might dedicate my life to the establishment of
your kingdom on earth, and I will not falter. I have survived every
disappointment so far, and I will not forsake you."

And then, laying his hand on Simon's shoulder, Jesus said: "It is indeed
refreshing to hear you talk like that, especially at such a time as this, but,
my good friend, you still do not know what you are talking about. Not for one
moment would I doubt your loyalty, your devotion; I know you would not hesitate
to go forth in battle and die for me, as all these others would" (and they all
nodded a vigorous approval), "but that will not be required of you. I have
repeatedly told you that my kingdom is not of this world, and that my disciples
will not fight to effect its establishment. I have told you this many times,
Simon, but you refuse to face the truth. I am not concerned with your loyalty
to me and to the kingdom, but what will you do when I go away and you at last
wake up to the realization that you have failed to grasp the meaning of my
teaching, and that you must adjust your misconceptions to the reality of
another and spiritual order of affairs in the kingdom?"

Simon wanted to speak further, but Jesus raised his hand and, stopping him,
went on to say: "None of my apostles are more sincere and honest at heart than
you, but not one of them will be so upset and disheartened as you, after my

                               top of page - 1957

departure. In all of your discouragement my spirit shall abide with you, and
these, your brethren, will not forsake you. Do not forget what I have taught
you regarding the relation of citizenship on earth to sonship in the Father's
spiritual kingdom. Ponder well all that I have said to you about rendering to
Caesar the things which are Caesar's and to God that which is God's. Dedicate
your life, Simon, to showing how acceptably mortal man may fulfill my
injunction concerning the simultaneous recognition of temporal duty to civil
powers and spiritual service in the brotherhood of the kingdom. If you will be
taught by the Spirit of Truth, never will there be conflict between the
requirements of citizenship on earth and sonship in heaven unless the temporal
rulers presume to require of you the homage and worship which belong only to
God.

"And now, Simon, when you do finally see all of this, and after you have shaken
off your depression and have gone forth proclaiming this gospel in great power,
never forget that I was with you even through all of your season of
discouragement, and that I will go on with you to the very end. You shall
always be my apostle, and after you become willing to see by the eye of the
spirit and more fully to yield your will to the will of the Father in heaven,
then will you return to labor as my ambassador, and no one shall take away from
you the authority which I have conferred upon you, because of your slowness of
comprehending the truths I have taught you. And so, Simon, once more I warn you
that they who fight with the sword perish with the sword, while they who labor
in the spirit achieve life everlasting in the kingdom to come with joy and
peace in the kingdom which now is. And when the work given into your hands is
finished on earth, you, Simon, shall sit down with me in my kingdom over there.
You shall really see the kingdom you have longed for, but not in this life.
Continue to believe in me and in that which I have revealed to you, and you
shall receive the gift of eternal life."

When Jesus had finished speaking to Simon Zelotes, he stepped over to Matthew
Levi and said: "No longer will it devolve upon you to provide for the treasury
of the apostolic group. Soon, very soon, you will all be scattered; you will
not be permitted to enjoy the comforting and sustaining association of even one
of your brethren. As you go onward preaching this gospel of the kingdom, you
will have to find for yourselves new associates. I have sent you forth two and
two during the times of your training, but now that I am leaving you, after you
have recovered from the shock, you will go out alone, and to the ends of the
earth, proclaiming this good news: That faith-quickened mortals are the sons of
God."

Then spoke Matthew: "But, Master, who will send us, and how shall we know where
to go? Will Andrew show us the way?" And Jesus answered: "No, Levi, Andrew will
no longer direct you in the proclamation of the gospel. He will, indeed,
continue as your friend and counselor until that day whereon the new teacher
comes, and then shall the Spirit of Truth lead each of you abroad to labor for
the extension of the kingdom. Many changes have come over you since that day at
the customhouse when you first set out to follow me; but many more must come
before you will be able to see the vision of a brotherhood in which gentile
sits alongside Jew in fraternal association. But go on with your urge to win
your Jewish brethren until you are fully satisfied and then turn with power to
the gentiles. One thing you may be certain of, Levi: You have won

                               top of page - 1958

the confidence and affection of your brethren; they all love you." (And all ten
of them signified their acquiescence in the Master's words.)

"Levi, I know much about your anxieties, sacrifices, and labors to keep the
treasury replenished which your brethren do not know, and I am rejoiced that,
though he who carried the bag is absent, the publican ambassador is here at my
farewell gathering with the messengers of the kingdom. I pray that you may
discern the meaning of my teaching with the eyes of the spirit. And when the
new teacher comes into your heart, follow on as he will lead you and let your
brethren see--even all the world--what the Father can do for a hated
tax-gatherer who dared to follow the Son of Man and to believe the gospel of
the kingdom. Even from the first, Levi, I loved you as I did these other
Galileans. Knowing then so well that neither the Father nor the Son has respect
of persons, see to it that you make no such distinctions among those who become
believers in the gospel through your ministry. And so, Matthew, dedicate your
whole future life service to showing all men that God is no respecter of
persons; that, in the sight of God and in the fellowship of the kingdom, all
men are equal, all believers are the sons of God."

Jesus then stepped over to James Zebedee, who stood in silence as the Master
addressed him, saying: "James, when you and your younger brother once came to
me seeking preferment in the honors of the kingdom, and I told you such honors
were for the Father to bestow, I asked if you were able to drink my cup, and
both of you answered that you were. Even if you were not then able, and if you
are not now able, you will soon be prepared for such a service by the
experience you are about to pass through. By such behavior you angered your
brethren at that time. If they have not already fully forgiven you, they will
when they see you drink my cup. Whether your ministry be long or short, possess
your soul in patience. When the new teacher comes, let him teach you the poise
of compassion and that sympathetic tolerance which is born of sublime
confidence in me and of perfect submission to the Father's will. Dedicate your
life to the demonstration of that combined human affection and divine dignity
of the God-knowing and Son-believing disciple. And all who thus live will
reveal the gospel even in the manner of their death. You and your brother John
will go different ways, and one of you may sit down with me in the eternal
kingdom long before the other. It would help you much if you would learn that
true wisdom embraces discretion as well as courage. You should learn sagacity
to go along with your aggressiveness. There will come those supreme moments
wherein my disciples will not hesitate to lay down their lives for this gospel,
but in all ordinary circumstances it would be far better to placate the wrath
of unbelievers that you might live and continue to preach the glad tidings. As
far as lies in your power, live long on the earth that your life of many years
may be fruitful in souls won for the heavenly kingdom."

When the Master had finished speaking to James Zebedee, he stepped around to
the end of the table where Andrew sat and, looking his faithful helper in the
eyes, said: "Andrew, you have faithfully represented me as acting head of the
ambassadors of the heavenly kingdom. Although you have sometimes doubted and at
other times manifested dangerous timidity, still, you have always been
sincerely just and eminently fair in dealing with your associates. Ever since
the ordination of you and your brethren as messengers of the kingdom, you have
been

                               top of page - 1959

self-governing in all group administrative affairs except that I designated you
as the acting head of these chosen ones. In no other temporal matter have I
acted to direct or to influence your decisions. And this I did in order to
provide for leadership in the direction of all your subsequent group
deliberations. In my universe and in my Father's universe of universes, our
brethren-sons are dealt with as individuals in all their spiritual relations,
but in all group relationships we unfailingly provide for definite leadership.
Our kingdom is a realm of order, and where two or more will creatures act in
co-operation, there is always provided the authority of leadership.

"And now, Andrew, since you are the chief of your brethren by authority of my
appointment, and since you have thus served as my personal representative, and
as I am about to leave you and go to my Father, I release you from all
responsibility as regards these temporal and administrative affairs. From now
on you may exercise no jurisdiction over your brethren except that which you
have earned in your capacity as spiritual leader, and which your brethren
therefore freely recognize. From this hour you may exercise no authority over
your brethren unless they restore such jurisdiction to you by their definite
legislative action after I shall have gone to the Father. But this release from
responsibility as the administrative head of this group does not in any manner
lessen your moral responsibility to do everything in your power to hold your
brethren together with a firm and loving hand during the trying time just
ahead, those days which must intervene between my departure in the flesh and
the sending of the new teacher who will live in your hearts, and who ultimately
will lead you into all truth. As I prepare to leave you, I would liberate you
from all administrative responsibility which had its inception and authority in
my presence as one among you. Henceforth I shall exercise only spiritual
authority over you and among you.

"If your brethren desire to retain you as their counselor, I direct that you
should, in all matters temporal and spiritual, do your utmost to promote peace
and harmony among the various groups of sincere gospel believers. Dedicate the
remainder of your life to promoting the practical aspects of brotherly love
among your brethren. Be kind to my brothers in the flesh when they come fully
to believe this gospel; manifest loving and impartial devotion to the Greeks in
the West and to Abner in the East. Although these, my apostles, are soon going
to be scattered to the four corners of the earth, there to proclaim the good
news of the salvation of sonship with God, you are to hold them together during
the trying time just ahead, that season of intense testing during which you
must learn to believe this gospel without my personal presence while you
patiently await the arrival of the new teacher, the Spirit of Truth. And so,
Andrew, though it may not fall to you to do the great works as seen by men, be
content to be the teacher and counselor of those who do such things. Go on with
your work on earth to the end, and then shall you continue this ministry in the
eternal kingdom, for have I not many times told you that I have other sheep not
of this flock?"

Jesus then went over to the Alpheus twins and, standing between them, said: "My
little children, you are one of the three groups of brothers who chose to
follow after me. All six of you have done well to work in peace with your own
flesh and blood, but none have done better than you. Hard times are just ahead
of us. You may not understand all that will befall you and your brethren, but
never doubt that you were once called to the work of the kingdom. For some time
there will be no multitudes to manage, but do not become discouraged; when

                               top of page - 1960

your lifework is finished, I will receive you on high, where in glory you shall
tell of your salvation to seraphic hosts and to multitudes of the high Sons of
God. Dedicate your lives to the enhancement of commonplace toil. Show all men
on earth and the angels of heaven how cheerfully and courageously mortal man
can, after having been called to work for a season in the special service of
God, return to the labors of former days. If, for the time being, your work in
the outward affairs of the kingdom should be completed, you should go back to
your former labors with the new enlightenment of the experience of sonship with
God and with the exalted realization that, to him who is God-knowing, there is
no such thing as common labor or secular toil. To you who have worked with me,
all things have become sacred, and all earthly labor has become a service even
to God the Father. And when you hear the news of the doings of your former
apostolic associates, rejoice with them and continue your daily work as those
who wait upon God and serve while they wait. You have been my apostles, and you
always shall be, and I will remember you in the kingdom to come."

And then Jesus went over to Philip, who, standing up, heard this message from
his Master: "Philip, you have asked me many foolish questions, but I have done
my utmost to answer every one, and now would I answer the last of such
questionings which have arisen in your most honest but unspiritual mind. All
the time I have been coming around toward you, have you been saying to
yourself, `What shall I ever do if the Master goes away and leaves us alone in
the world?' O, you of little faith! And yet you have almost as much as many of
your brethren. You have been a good steward, Philip. You failed us only a few
times, and one of those failures we utilized to manifest the Father's glory.
Your office of stewardship is about over. You must soon more fully do the work
you were called to do--the preaching of this gospel of the kingdom. Philip, you
have always wanted to be shown, and very soon shall you see great things. Far
better that you should have seen all this by faith, but since you were sincere
even in your material sightedness, you will live to see my words fulfilled. And
then, when you are blessed with spiritual vision, go forth to your work,
dedicating your life to the cause of leading mankind to search for God and to
seek eternal realities with the eye of spiritual faith and not with the eyes of
the material mind. Remember, Philip, you have a great mission on earth, for the
world is filled with those who look at life just as you have tended to. You
have a great work to do, and when it is finished in faith, you shall come to me
in my kingdom, and I will take great pleasure in showing you that which eye has
not seen, ear heard, nor the mortal mind conceived. In the meantime, become as
a little child in the kingdom of the spirit and permit me, as the spirit of the
new teacher, to lead you forward in the spiritual kingdom. And in this way will
I be able to do much for you which I was not able to accomplish when I
sojourned with you as a mortal of the realm. And always remember, Philip, he
who has seen me has seen the Father."

Then went the Master over to Nathaniel. As Nathaniel stood up, Jesus bade him
be seated and, sitting down by his side, said: "Nathaniel, you have learned to
live above prejudice and to practice increased tolerance since you became my
apostle. But there is much more for you to learn. You have been a blessing to
your fellows in that they have always been admonished by your consistent
sincerity. When I have gone, it may be that your frankness will interfere with
your getting along well with your brethren, both old and new. You should learn
that the ex-

                               top of page - 1961

pression of even a good thought must be modulated in accordance with the
intellectual status and spiritual development of the hearer. Sincerity is most
serviceable in the work of the kingdom when it is wedded to discretion.

"If you would learn to work with your brethren, you might accomplish more
permanent things, but if you find yourself going off in quest of those who
think as you do, in that event dedicate your life to proving that the
God-knowing disciple can become a kingdom builder even when alone in the world
and wholly isolated from his fellow believers. I know you will be faithful to
the end, and I will some day welcome you to the enlarged service of my kingdom
on high."

Then Nathaniel spoke, asking Jesus this question: "I have listened to your
teaching ever since you first called me to the service of this kingdom, but I
honestly cannot understand the full meaning of all you tell us. I do not know
what to expect next, and I think most of my brethren are likewise perplexed,
but they hesitate to confess their confusion. Can you help me?" Jesus, putting
his hand on Nathaniel's shoulder, said: "My friend, it is not strange that you
should encounter perplexity in your attempt to grasp the meaning of my
spiritual teachings since you are so handicapped by your preconceptions of
Jewish tradition and so confused by your persistent tendency to interpret my
gospel in accordance with the teachings of the scribes and Pharisees.

"I have taught you much by word of mouth, and I have lived my life among you. I
have done all that can be done to enlighten your minds and liberate your souls,
and what you have not been able to get from my teachings and my life, you must
now prepare to acquire at the hand of that master of all teachers--actual
experience. And in all of this new experience which now awaits you, I will go
before you and the Spirit of Truth shall be with you. Fear not; that which you
now fail to comprehend, the new teacher, when he has come, will reveal to you
throughout the remainder of your life on earth and on through your training in
the eternal ages."

And then the Master, turning to all of them, said: "Be not dismayed that you
fail to grasp the full meaning of the gospel. You are but finite, mortal men,
and that which I have taught you is infinite, divine, and eternal. Be patient
and of good courage since you have the eternal ages before you in which to
continue your progressive attainment of the experience of becoming perfect,
even as your Father in Paradise is perfect."

And then Jesus went over to Thomas, who, standing up, heard him say: "Thomas,
you have often lacked faith; however, when you have had your seasons with
doubt, you have never lacked courage. I know well that the false prophets and
spurious teachers will not deceive you. After I have gone, your brethren will
the more appreciate your critical way of viewing new teachings. And when you
all are scattered to the ends of the earth in the times to come, remember that
you are still my ambassador. Dedicate your life to the great work of showing
how the critical material mind of man can triumph over the inertia of
intellectual doubting when faced by the demonstration of the manifestation of
living truth as it operates in the experience of spirit-born men and women who
yield the fruits of the spirit in their lives, and who love one another, even
as I have loved you. Thomas, I am glad you joined us, and I know, after a short
period of perplexity, you will go on in the service of the kingdom. Your doubts
have perplexed your brethren, but they have never troubled me. I have
confidence in you, and I will go before you even to the uttermost parts of the
earth."

                               top of page - 1962

Then the Master went over to Simon Peter, who stood up as Jesus addressed him:
"Peter, I know you love me, and that you will dedicate your life to the public
proclamation of this gospel of the kingdom to Jew and gentile, but I am
distressed that your years of such close association with me have not done more
to help you think before you speak. What experience must you pass through
before you will learn to set a guard upon your lips? How much trouble have you
made for us by your thoughtless speaking, by your presumptuous self-confidence!
And you are destined to make much more trouble for yourself if you do not
master this frailty. You know that your brethren love you in spite of this
weakness, and you should also understand that this shortcoming in no way
impairs my affection for you, but it lessens your usefulness and never ceases
to make trouble for you. But you will undoubtedly receive great help from the
experience you will pass through this very night. And what I now say to you,
Simon Peter, I likewise say to all your brethren here assembled: This night you
will all be in great danger of stumbling over me. You know it is written, `The
shepherd will be smitten and the sheep will be scattered abroad.' When I am
absent, there is great danger that some of you will succumb to doubts and
stumble because of what befalls me. But I promise you now that I will come back
to you for a little while, and that I will then go before you into Galilee."

Then said Peter, placing his hand on Jesus' shoulder: "No matter if all my
brethren should succumb to doubts because of you, I promise that I will not
stumble over anything you may do. I will go with you and, if need be, die for
you."

As Peter stood there before his Master, all atremble with intense emotion and
overflowing with genuine love for him, Jesus looked straight into his moistened
eyes as he said: "Peter, verily, verily, I say to you, this night the cock will
not crow until you have denied me three or four times. And thus what you have
failed to learn from peaceful association with me, you will learn through much
trouble and many sorrows. And after you have really learned this needful
lesson, you should strengthen your brethren and go on living a life dedicated
to preaching this gospel, though you may fall into prison and, perhaps, follow
me in paying the supreme price of loving service in the building of the
Father's kingdom.

"But remember my promise: When I am raised up, I will tarry with you for a
season before I go to the Father. And even this night will I make supplication
to the Father that he strengthen each of you for that which you must now so
soon pass through. I love you all with the love wherewith the Father loves me,
and therefore should you henceforth love one another, even as I have loved
you."

And then, when they had sung a hymn, they departed for the camp on the Mount of
Olives.

                               top of page - 1963

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

  ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
  ³        //        ³               ³                   ³        ³          ³
  ³   The Farewell   ³ In Gethsemane ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
  ³      Di...       ³               ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
  ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
