                    Urantia Book Paper 182 In Gethsemane
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
    To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ... In Gethsemane
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            Paper 182 In Gethsemane

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

IT WAS about ten o'clock this Thursday night when Jesus led the eleven apostles
from the home of Elijah and Mary Mark on their way back to the Gethsemane camp.
Ever since that day in the hills, John Mark had made it his business to keep a
watchful eye on Jesus. John, being in need of sleep, had obtained several hours
of rest while the Master had been with his apostles in the upper room, but on
hearing them coming downstairs, he arose and, quickly throwing a linen coat
about himself, followed them through the city, over the brook Kidron, and on to
their private encampment adjacent to Gethsemane Park. And John Mark remained so
near the Master throughout this night and the next day that he witnessed
everything and overheard much of what the Master said from this time on to the
hour of the crucifixion.

As Jesus and the eleven made their way back to camp, the apostles began to
wonder about the meaning of Judas's prolonged absence, and they spoke to one
another concerning the Master's prediction that one of them would betray him,
and for the first time they suspected that all was not well with Judas
Iscariot. But they did not engage in open comment about Judas until they
reached the camp and observed that he was not there, waiting to receive them.
When they all besieged Andrew to know what had become of Judas, their chief
remarked only, "I do not know where Judas is, but I fear he has deserted us."

1. THE LAST GROUP PRAYER

A few moments after arriving at camp, Jesus said to them: "My friends and
brethren, my time with you is now very short, and I desire that we draw apart
by ourselves while we pray to our Father in heaven for strength to sustain us
in this hour and henceforth in all the work we must do in his name."

When Jesus had thus spoken, he led the way a short distance up on Olivet, and
in full view of Jerusalem he bade them kneel on a large flat rock in a circle
about him as they had done on the day of their ordination; and then, as he
stood there in the midst of them glorified in the mellow moonlight, he lifted
up his eyes toward heaven and prayed:

"Father, my hour has come; now glorify your Son that the Son may glorify you. I
know that you have given me full authority over all living creatures in my
realm, and I will give eternal life to all who will become faith sons of God.
And this is eternal life, that my creatures should know you as the only true
God and Father of all, and that they should believe in him whom you sent into
the world. Father, I have exalted you on earth and have accomplished the work
which you gave me to do. I have almost finished my bestowal upon the children
of our own creation; there remains only for me to lay down my life in the
flesh. And now,

                               top of page - 1964

O my Father, glorify me with the glory which I had with you before this world
was and receive me once more at your right hand.

"I have manifested you to the men whom you chose from the world and gave to me.
They are yours--as all life is in your hands--you gave them to me, and I have
lived among them, teaching them the way of life, and they have believed. These
men are learning that all I have comes from you, and that the life I live in
the flesh is to make known my Father to the worlds. The truth which you have
given to me I have revealed to them. These, my friends and ambassadors, have
sincerely willed to receive your word. I have told them that I came forth from
you, that you sent me into this world, and that I am about to return to you.
Father, I do pray for these chosen men. And I pray for them not as I would pray
for the world, but as for those whom I have chosen out of the world to
represent me to the world after I have returned to your work, even as I have
represented you in this world during my sojourn in the flesh. These men are
mine; you gave them to me; but all things which are mine are ever yours, and
all that which was yours you have now caused to be mine. You have been exalted
in me, and I now pray that I may be honored in these men. I can no longer be in
this world; I am about to return to the work you have given me to do. I must
leave these men behind to represent us and our kingdom among men. Father, keep
these men faithful as I prepare to yield up my life in the flesh. Help these,
my friends, to be one in spirit, even as we are one. As long as I could be with
them, I could watch over them and guide them, but now am I about to go away. Be
near them, Father, until we can send the new teacher to comfort and strengthen
them.

"You gave me twelve men, and I have kept them all save one, the son of revenge,
who would not have further fellowship with us. These men are weak and frail,
but I know we can trust them; I have proved them; they love me, even as they
reverence you. While they must suffer much for my sake, I desire that they
should also be filled with the joy of the assurance of sonship in the heavenly
kingdom. I have given these men your word and have taught them the truth. The
world may hate them, even as it has hated me, but I do not ask that you take
them out of the world, only that you keep them from the evil in the world.
Sanctify them in the truth; your word is truth. And as you sent me into this
world, even so am I about to send these men into the world. For their sakes I
have lived among men and have consecrated my life to your service that I might
inspire them to be purified through the truth I have taught them and the love I
have revealed to them. I well know, my Father, that there is no need for me to
ask you to watch over these brethren after I have gone; I know you love them
even as I, but I do this that they may the better realize the Father loves
mortal men even as does the Son.

"And now, my Father, I would pray not only for these eleven men but also for
all others who now believe, or who may hereafter believe the gospel of the
kingdom through the word of their future ministry. I want them all to be one,
even as you and I are one. You are in me and I am in you, and I desire that
these believers likewise be in us; that both of our spirits indwell them. If my
children are one as we are one, and if they love one another as I have loved
them, all men will then believe that I came forth from you and be willing to
receive the revelation of truth and glory which I have made. The glory which
you gave me I have revealed to these believers. As you have lived with me in
spirit, so have I lived with them in the flesh. As you have been one with me,
so have I been one with them, and so will the new teacher ever be one with them
and in them. And all this

                               top of page - 1965

have I done that my brethren in the flesh may know that the Father loves them
even as does the Son, and that you love them even as you love me. Father, work
with me to save these believers that they may presently come to be with me in
glory and then go on to join you in the Paradise embrace. Those who serve with
me in humiliation, I would have with me in glory so that they may see all you
have given into my hands as the eternal harvest of the seed sowing of time in
the likeness of mortal flesh. I long to show my earthly brethren the glory I
had with you before the founding of this world. This world knows very little of
you, righteous Father, but I know you, and I have made you known to these
believers, and they will make known your name to other generations. And now I
promise them that you will be with them in the world even as you have been with
me--even so."

The eleven remained kneeling in this circle about Jesus for several minutes
before they arose and in silence made their way back to the near-by camp.

Jesus prayed for unity among his followers, but he did not desire uniformity.
Sin creates a dead level of evil inertia, but righteousness nourishes the
creative spirit of individual experience in the living realities of eternal
truth and in the progressive communion of the divine spirits of the Father and
the Son. In the spiritual fellowship of the believer-son with the divine Father
there can never be doctrinal finality and sectarian superiority of group
consciousness.

The Master, during the course of this final prayer with his apostles, alluded
to the fact that he had manifested the Father's name to the world. And that is
truly what he did by the revelation of God through his perfected life in the
flesh. The Father in heaven had sought to reveal himself to Moses, but he could
proceed no further than to cause it to be said, "I AM." And when pressed for
further revelation of himself, it was only disclosed, "I AM that I AM." But
when Jesus had finished his earth life, this name of the Father had been so
revealed that the Master, who was the Father incarnate, could truly say:

I am the bread of life.

I am the living water.

I am the light of the world.

I am the desire of all ages.

I am the open door to eternal salvation.

I am the reality of endless life.

I am the good shepherd.

I am the pathway of infinite perfection.

I am the resurrection and the life.

I am the secret of eternal survival.

I am the way, the truth, and the life.

I am the infinite Father of my finite children.

I am the true vine; you are the branches.

I am the hope of all who know the living truth.

I am the living bridge from one world to another.

I am the living link between time and eternity.

Thus did Jesus enlarge the living revelation of the name of God to all
generations. As divine love reveals the nature of God, eternal truth discloses
his name in ever-enlarging proportions.

                               top of page - 1966

2. LAST HOUR BEFORE THE BETRAYAL

The apostles were greatly shocked when they returned to their camp and found
Judas absent. While the eleven were engaged in a heated discussion of their
traitorous fellow apostle, David Zebedee and John Mark took Jesus to one side
and revealed that they had kept Judas under observation for several days, and
that they knew he intended to betray him into the hands of his enemies. Jesus
listened to them but only said: "My friends, nothing can happen to the Son of
Man unless the Father in heaven so wills. Let not your hearts be troubled; all
things will work together for the glory of God and the salvation of men."

The cheerful attitude of Jesus was waning. As the hour passed, he grew more and
more serious, even sorrowful. The apostles, being much agitated, were loath to
return to their tents even when requested to do so by the Master himself.
Returning from his talk with David and John, he addressed his last words to all
eleven, saying: "My friends, go to your rest. Prepare yourselves for the work
of tomorrow. Remember, we should all submit ourselves to the will of the Father
in heaven. My peace I leave with you." And having thus spoken, he motioned them
to their tents, but as they went, he called to Peter, James, and John, saying,
"I desire that you remain with me for a little while."

The apostles fell asleep only because they were literally exhausted; they had
been running short on sleep ever since their arrival in Jerusalem. Before they
went to their separate sleeping quarters, Simon Zelotes led them all over to
his tent, where were stored the swords and other arms, and supplied each of
them with this fighting equipment. All of them received these arms and girded
themselves therewith except Nathaniel. Nathaniel, in refusing to arm himself,
said: "My brethren, the Master has repeatedly told us that his kingdom is not
of this world, and that his disciples should not fight with the sword to bring
about its establishment. I believe this; I do not think the Master needs to
have us employ the sword in his defense. We have all seen his mighty power and
know that he could defend himself against his enemies if he so desired. If he
will not resist his enemies, it must be that such a course represents his
attempt to fulfill his Father's will. I will pray, but I will not wield the
sword." When Andrew heard Nathaniel's speech, he handed his sword back to Simon
Zelotes. And so nine of them were armed as they separated for the night.

Resentment of Judas's being a traitor for the moment eclipsed everything else
in the apostles' minds. The Master's comment in reference to Judas, spoken in
the course of the last prayer, opened their eyes to the fact that he had
forsaken them.

After the eight apostles had finally gone to their tents, and while Peter,
James, and John were standing by to receive the Master's orders, Jesus called
to David Zebedee, "Send to me your most fleet and trustworthy messenger." When
David brought to the Master one Jacob, once a runner on the overnight messenger
service between Jerusalem and Bethsaida, Jesus, addressing him, said: "In all
haste, go to Abner at Philadelphia and say: `The Master sends greetings of
peace to you and says that the hour has come when he will be delivered into the
hands of his enemies, who will put him to death, but that he will rise from the
dead and appear to you shortly, before he goes to the Father, and that he will
then give you guidance to the time when the new teacher shall come to live in
your hearts.'" And when Jacob had rehearsed this message to the

                               top of page - 1967

Master's satisfaction, Jesus sent him on his way, saying: "Fear not what any
man may do to you, Jacob, for this night an unseen messenger will run by your
side."

Then Jesus turned to the chief of the visiting Greeks who were encamped with
them, and said: "My brother, be not disturbed by what is about to take place
since I have already forewarned you. The Son of Man will be put to death at the
instigation of his enemies, the chief priests and the rulers of the Jews, but I
will rise to be with you a short time before I go to the Father. And when you
have seen all this come to pass, glorify God and strengthen your brethren."

In ordinary circumstances the apostles would have bidden the Master a personal
good night, but this evening they were so preoccupied with the sudden
realization of Judas's desertion and so overcome by the unusual nature of the
Master's farewell prayer that they listened to his good-bye salutation and went
away in silence.

Jesus did say this to Andrew as he left his side that night: "Andrew, do what
you can to keep your brethren together until I come again to you after I have
drunk this cup. Strengthen your brethren, seeing that I have already told you
all. Peace be with you."

None of the apostles expected anything out of the ordinary to happen that night
since it was already so late. They sought sleep that they might rise up early
in the morning and be prepared for the worst. They thought that the chief
priests would seek to apprehend their Master early in the morning as no secular
work was ever done after noon on the preparation day for the Passover. Only
David Zebedee and John Mark understood that the enemies of Jesus were coming
with Judas that very night.

David had arranged to stand guard that night on the upper trail which led to
the Bethany-Jerusalem road, while John Mark was to watch along the road coming
up by the Kidron to Gethsemane. Before David went to his self-imposed task of
outpost duty, he bade farewell to Jesus, saying: "Master, I have had great joy
in my service with you. My brothers are your apostles, but I have delighted to
do the lesser things as they should be done, and I shall miss you with all my
heart when you are gone." And then said Jesus to David: "David, my son, others
have done that which they were directed to do, but this service have you done
of your own heart, and I have not been unmindful of your devotion. You, too,
shall some day serve with me in the eternal kingdom."

And then, as he prepared to go on watch by the upper trail, David said to
Jesus: "You know, Master, I sent for your family, and I have word by a
messenger that they are tonight in Jericho. They will be here early tomorrow
forenoon since it would be dangerous for them to come up the bloody way by
night." And Jesus, looking down upon David, only said: "Let it be so, David."

When David had gone up Olivet, John Mark took up his vigil near the road which
ran by the brook down to Jerusalem. And John would have remained at this post
but for his great desire to be near Jesus and to know what was going on.
Shortly after David left him, and when John Mark observed Jesus withdraw, with
Peter, James, and John, into a near-by ravine, he was so overcome with combined
devotion and curiosity that he forsook his sentinel post and followed after
them, hiding himself in the bushes, from which place he saw and overheard all
that transpired during those last moments in the garden and just before Judas
and the armed guards appeared to arrest Jesus.

                               top of page - 1968

While all this was in progress at the Master's camp, Judas Iscariot was in
conference with the captain of the temple guards, who had assembled his men
preparatory to setting out, under the leadership of the betrayer, to arrest
Jesus.

3. ALONE IN GETHSEMANE

After all was still and quiet about the camp, Jesus, taking Peter, James, and
John, went a short way up a near-by ravine where he had often before gone to
pray and commune. The three apostles could not help recognizing that he was
grievously oppressed; never before had they observed their Master to be so
heavy-laden and sorrowful. When they arrived at the place of his devotions, he
bade the three sit down and watch with him while he went off about a stone's
throw to pray. And when he had fallen down on his face, he prayed: "My Father,
I came into this world to do your will, and so have I. I know that the hour has
come to lay down this life in the flesh, and I do not shrink therefrom, but I
would know that it is your will that I drink this cup. Send me the assurance
that I will please you in my death even as I have in my life."

The Master remained in a prayerful attitude for a few moments, and then, going
over to the three apostles, he found them sound asleep, for their eyes were
heavy and they could not remain awake. As Jesus awoke them, he said: "What! can
you not watch with me even for one hour? Cannot you see that my soul is
exceedingly sorrowful, even to death, and that I crave your companionship?"
After the three had aroused from their slumber, the Master again went apart by
himself and, falling down on the ground, again prayed: "Father, I know it is
possible to avoid this cup--all things are possible with you--but I have come
to do your will, and while this is a bitter cup, I would drink it if it is your
will." And when he had thus prayed, a mighty angel came down by his side and,
speaking to him, touched him and strengthened him.

When Jesus returned to speak with the three apostles, he again found them fast
asleep. He awakened them, saying: "In such an hour I need that you should watch
and pray with me--all the more do you need to pray that you enter not into
temptation--wherefore do you fall asleep when I leave you?"

And then, for a third time, the Master withdrew and prayed: "Father, you see my
sleeping apostles; have mercy upon them. The spirit is indeed willing, but the
flesh is weak. And now, O Father, if this cup may not pass, then would I drink
it. Not my will, but yours, be done." And when he had finished praying, he lay
for a moment prostrate on the ground. When he arose and went back to his
apostles, once more he found them asleep. He surveyed them and, with a pitying
gesture, tenderly said: "Sleep on now and take your rest; the time of decision
is past. The hour is now upon us wherein the Son of Man will be betrayed into
the hands of his enemies." As he reached down to shake them that he might
awaken them, he said: "Arise, let us be going back to the camp, for, behold, he
who betrays me is at hand, and the hour has come when my flock shall be
scattered. But I have already told you about these things."

During the years that Jesus lived among his followers, they did, indeed, have
much proof of his divine nature, but just now are they about to witness new
evidences of his humanity. Just before the greatest of all the revelations of
his divinity, his resurrection, must now come the greatest proofs of his mortal
nature, his humiliation and crucifixion.

                               top of page - 1969

Each time he prayed in the garden, his humanity laid a firmer faith-hold upon
his divinity; his human will more completely became one with the divine will of
his Father. Among other words spoken to him by the mighty angel was the message
that the Father desired his Son to finish his earth bestowal by passing through
the creature experience of death just as all mortal creatures must experience
material dissolution in passing from the existence of time into the progression
of eternity.

Earlier in the evening it had not seemed so difficult to drink the cup, but as
the human Jesus bade farewell to his apostles and sent them to their rest, the
trial grew more appalling. Jesus experienced that natural ebb and flow of
feeling which is common to all human experience, and just now he was weary from
work, exhausted from the long hours of strenuous labor and painful anxiety
concerning the safety of his apostles. While no mortal can presume to
understand the thoughts and feelings of the incarnate Son of God at such a time
as this, we know that he endured great anguish and suffered untold sorrow, for
the perspiration rolled off his face in great drops. He was at last convinced
that the Father intended to allow natural events to take their course; he was
fully determined to employ none of his sovereign power as the supreme head of a
universe to save himself.

The assembled hosts of a vast creation are now hovered over this scene under
the transient joint command of Gabriel and the Personalized Adjuster of Jesus.
The division commanders of these armies of heaven have repeatedly been warned
not to interfere with these transactions on earth unless Jesus himself should
order them to intervene.

The experience of parting with the apostles was a great strain on the human
heart of Jesus; this sorrow of love bore down on him and made it more difficult
to face such a death as he well knew awaited him. He realized how weak and how
ignorant his apostles were, and he dreaded to leave them. He well knew that the
time of his departure had come, but his human heart longed to find out whether
there might not possibly be some legitimate avenue of escape from this terrible
plight of suffering and sorrow. And when it had thus sought escape, and failed,
it was willing to drink the cup. The divine mind of Michael knew he had done
his best for the twelve apostles; but the human heart of Jesus wished that more
might have been done for them before they should be left alone in the world.
Jesus' heart was being crushed; he truly loved his brethren. He was isolated
from his family in the flesh; one of his chosen associates was betraying him.
His father Joseph's people had rejected him and thereby sealed their doom as a
people with a special mission on earth. His soul was tortured by baffled love
and rejected mercy. It was just one of those awful human moments when
everything seems to bear down with crushing cruelty and terrible agony.

Jesus' humanity was not insensible to this situation of private loneliness,
public shame, and the appearance of the failure of his cause. All these
sentiments bore down on him with indescribable heaviness. In this great sorrow
his mind went back to the days of his childhood in Nazareth and to his early
work in Galilee. At the time of this great trial there came up in his mind many
of those pleasant scenes of his earthly ministry. And it was from these old
memories of Nazareth, Capernaum, Mount Hermon, and of the sunrise and sunset on
the shimmering Sea of Galilee, that he soothed himself as he made his human
heart strong and ready to encounter the traitor who should so soon betray him.

                               top of page - 1970

Before Judas and the soldiers arrived, the Master had fully regained his
customary poise; the spirit had triumphed over the flesh; faith had asserted
itself over all human tendencies to fear or entertain doubt. The supreme test
of the full realization of the human nature had been met and acceptably passed.
Once more the Son of Man was prepared to face his enemies with equanimity and
in the full assurance of his invincibility as a mortal man unreservedly
dedicated to the doing of his Father's will.

                               top of page - 1971

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³      Final       ³   The Betrayal    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³   Admonitio...   ³       An...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
