           Urantia Book Paper 183 The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
   To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ... The Betrayal And
                                Arrest Of Jesus
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  Paper 183 The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

AFTER Jesus had finally awakened Peter, James, and John, he suggested that they
go to their tents and seek sleep in preparation for the duties of the morrow.
But by this time the three apostles were wide awake; they had been refreshed by
their short naps, and besides, they were stimulated and aroused by the arrival
on the scene of two excited messengers who inquired for David Zebedee and
quickly went in quest of him when Peter informed them where he kept watch.

Although eight of the apostles were sound asleep, the Greeks who were encamped
alongside them were more fearful of trouble, so much so that they had posted a
sentinel to give the alarm in case danger should arise. When these two
messengers hurried into camp, the Greek sentinel proceeded to arouse all of his
fellow countrymen, who streamed forth from their tents, fully dressed and fully
armed. All the camp was now aroused except the eight apostles. Peter desired to
call his associates, but Jesus definitely forbade him. The Master mildly
admonished them all to return to their tents, but they were reluctant to comply
with his suggestion.

Failing to disperse his followers, the Master left them and walked down toward
the olive press near the entrance to Gethsemane Park. Although the three
apostles, the Greeks, and the other members of the camp hesitated immediately
to follow him, John Mark hastened around through the olive trees and secreted
himself in a small shed near the olive press. Jesus withdrew from the camp and
from his friends in order that his apprehenders, when they arrived, might
arrest him without disturbing his apostles. The Master feared to have his
apostles awake and present at the time of his arrest lest the spectacle of
Judas's betraying him should so arouse their animosity that they would offer
resistance to the soldiers and would be taken into custody with him. He feared
that, if they should be arrested with him, they might also perish with him.

Though Jesus knew that the plan for his death had its origin in the councils of
the rulers of the Jews, he was also aware that all such nefarious schemes had
the full approval of Lucifer, Satan, and Caligastia. And he well knew that
these rebels of the realms would also be pleased to see all of the apostles
destroyed with him.

Jesus sat down, alone, on the olive press, where he awaited the coming of the
betrayer, and he was seen at this time only by John Mark and an innumerable
host of celestial observers.

1. THE FATHER'S WILL

There is great danger of misunderstanding the meaning of numerous sayings and
many events associated with the termination of the Master's career in

                               top of page - 1972

the flesh. The cruel treatment of Jesus by the ignorant servants and the
calloused soldiers, the unfair conduct of his trials, and the unfeeling
attitude of the professed religious leaders, must not be confused with the fact
that Jesus, in patiently submitting to all this suffering and humiliation, was
truly doing the will of the Father in Paradise. It was, indeed and in truth,
the will of the Father that his Son should drink to the full the cup of mortal
experience, from birth to death, but the Father in heaven had nothing whatever
to do with instigating the barbarous behavior of those supposedly civilized
human beings who so brutally tortured the Master and so horribly heaped
successive indignities upon his nonresisting person. These inhuman and shocking
experiences which Jesus was called upon to endure in the final hours of his
mortal life were not in any sense a part of the divine will of the Father,
which his human nature had so triumphantly pledged to carry out at the time of
the final surrender of man to God as signified in the threefold prayer which he
indited in the garden while his weary apostles slept the sleep of physical
exhaustion.

The Father in heaven desired the bestowal Son to finish his earth career
naturally, just as all mortals must finish up their lives on earth and in the
flesh. Ordinary men and women cannot expect to have their last hours on earth
and the supervening episode of death made easy by a special dispensation.
Accordingly, Jesus elected to lay down his life in the flesh in the manner
which was in keeping with the outworking of natural events, and he steadfastly
refused to extricate himself from the cruel clutches of a wicked conspiracy of
inhuman events which swept on with horrible certainty toward his unbelievable
humiliation and ignominious death. And every bit of all this astounding
manifestation of hatred and this unprecedented demonstration of cruelty was the
work of evil men and wicked mortals. God in heaven did not will it, neither did
the archenemies of Jesus dictate it, though they did much to insure that
unthinking and evil mortals would thus reject the bestowal Son. Even the father
of sin turned his face away from the excruciating horror of the scene of the
crucifixion.

2. JUDAS IN THE CITY

After Judas so abruptly left the table while eating the Last Supper, he went
directly to the home of his cousin, and then did the two go straight to the
captain of the temple guards. Judas requested the captain to assemble the
guards and informed him that he was ready to lead them to Jesus. Judas having
appeared on the scene a little before he was expected, there was some delay in
getting started for the Mark home, where Judas expected to find Jesus still
visiting with the apostles. The Master and the eleven left the home of Elijah
Mark fully fifteen minutes before the betrayer and the guards arrived. By the
time the apprehenders reached the Mark home, Jesus and the eleven were well
outside the walls of the city and on their way to the Olivet camp.

Judas was much perturbed by this failure to find Jesus at the Mark residence
and in the company of eleven men, only two of whom were armed for resistance.
He happened to know that, in the afternoon when they had left camp, only Simon
Peter and Simon Zelotes were girded with swords; Judas had hoped to take Jesus
when the city was quiet, and when there was little chance of resistance. The
betrayer feared that, if he waited for them to return to their camp, more than
threescore of devoted disciples would be encountered, and he also knew that
Simon Zelotes had an ample store of arms in his possession. Judas

                               top of page - 1973

was becoming increasingly nervous as he meditated how the eleven loyal apostles
would detest him, and he feared they would all seek to destroy him. He was not
only disloyal, but he was a real coward at heart.

When they failed to find Jesus in the upper chamber, Judas asked the captain of
the guard to return to the temple. By this time the rulers had begun to
assemble at the high priest's home preparatory to receiving Jesus, seeing that
their bargain with the traitor called for Jesus' arrest by midnight of that
day. Judas explained to his associates that they had missed Jesus at the Mark
home, and that it would be necessary to go to Gethsemane to arrest him. The
betrayer then went on to state that more than threescore devoted followers were
encamped with him, and that they were all well armed. The rulers of the Jews
reminded Judas that Jesus had always preached nonresistance, but Judas replied
that they could not depend upon all Jesus' followers obeying such teaching. He
really feared for himself and therefore made bold to ask for a company of forty
armed soldiers. Since the Jewish authorities had no such force of armed men
under their jurisdiction, they went at once to the fortress of Antonia and
requested the Roman commander to give them this guard; but when he learned that
they intended to arrest Jesus, he promptly refused to accede to their request
and referred them to his superior officer. In this way more than an hour was
consumed in going from one authority to another until they finally were
compelled to go to Pilate himself in order to obtain permission to employ the
armed Roman guards. It was late when they arrived at Pilate's house, and he had
retired to his private chambers with his wife. He hesitated to have anything to
do with the enterprise, all the more so since his wife had asked him not to
grant the request. But inasmuch as the presiding officer of the Jewish
Sanhedrin was present and making personal request for this assistance, the
governor thought it wise to grant the petition, thinking he could later on
right any wrong they might be disposed to commit.

Accordingly, when Judas Iscariot started out from the temple, about half after
eleven o'clock, he was accompanied by more than sixty persons--temple guards,
Roman soldiers, and curious servants of the chief priests and rulers.

3. THE MASTER'S ARREST

As this company of armed soldiers and guards, carrying torches and lanterns,
approached the garden, Judas stepped well out in front of the band that he
might be ready quickly to identify Jesus so that the apprehenders could easily
lay hands on him before his associates could rally to his defense. And there
was yet another reason why Judas chose to be ahead of the Master's enemies: He
thought it would appear that he had arrived on the scene ahead of the soldiers
so that the apostles and others gathered about Jesus might not directly connect
him with the armed guards following so closely upon his heels. Judas had even
thought to pose as having hastened out to warn them of the coming of the
apprehenders, but this plan was thwarted by Jesus' blighting greeting of the
betrayer. Though the Master spoke to Judas kindly, he greeted him as a traitor.

As soon as Peter, James, and John, with some thirty of their fellow campers,
saw the armed band with torches swing around the brow of the hill, they knew
that these soldiers were coming to arrest Jesus, and they all rushed down to
near the olive press where the Master was sitting in moonlit solitude. As the
company of soldiers approached on one side, the three apostles and

                               top of page - 1974

their associates approached on the other. As Judas strode forward to accost the
Master, there the two groups stood, motionless, with the Master between them
and Judas making ready to impress the traitorous kiss upon his brow.

It had been the hope of the betrayer that he could, after leading the guards to
Gethsemane, simply point Jesus out to the soldiers, or at most carry out the
promise to greet him with a kiss, and then quickly retire from the scene. Judas
greatly feared that the apostles would all be present, and that they would
concentrate their attack upon him in retribution for his daring to betray their
beloved teacher. But when the Master greeted him as a betrayer, he was so
confused that he made no attempt to flee.

Jesus made one last effort to save Judas from actually betraying him in that,
before the traitor could reach him, he stepped to one side and, addressing the
foremost soldier on the left, the captain of the Romans, said, "Whom do you
seek?" The captain answered, "Jesus of Nazareth." Then Jesus stepped up
immediately in front of the officer and, standing there in the calm majesty of
the God of all this creation, said, "I am he." Many of this armed band had
heard Jesus teach in the temple, others had learned about his mighty works, and
when they heard him thus boldly announce his identity, those in the front ranks
fell suddenly backward. They were overcome with surprise at his calm and
majestic announcement of identity. There was, therefore, no need for Judas to
go on with his plan of betrayal. The Master had boldly revealed himself to his
enemies, and they could have taken him without Judas's assistance. But the
traitor had to do something to account for his presence with this armed band,
and besides, he wanted to make a show of carrying out his part of the betrayal
bargain with the rulers of the Jews in order to be eligible for the great
reward and honors which he believed would be heaped upon him in compensation
for his promise to deliver Jesus into their hands.

As the guards rallied from their first faltering at the sight of Jesus and at
the sound of his unusual voice, and as the apostles and disciples drew nearer,
Judas stepped up to Jesus and, placing a kiss upon his brow, said, "Hail,
Master and Teacher." And as Judas thus embraced his Master, Jesus said,
"Friend, is it not enough to do this! Would you even betray the Son of Man with
a kiss?"

The apostles and disciples were literally stunned by what they saw. For a
moment no one moved. Then Jesus, disengaging himself from the traitorous
embrace of Judas, stepped up to the guards and soldiers and again asked, "Whom
do you seek?" And again the captain said, "Jesus of Nazareth." And again
answered Jesus: "I have told you that I am he. If, therefore, you seek me, let
these others go their way. I am ready to go with you."

Jesus was ready to go back to Jerusalem with the guards, and the captain of the
soldiers was altogether willing to allow the three apostles and their
associates to go their way in peace. But before they were able to get started,
as Jesus stood there awaiting the captain's orders, one Malchus, the Syrian
bodyguard of the high priest, stepped up to Jesus and made ready to bind his
hands behind his back, although the Roman captain had not directed that Jesus
should be thus bound. When Peter and his associates saw their Master being
subjected to this indignity, they were no longer able to restrain themselves.
Peter drew his sword and with the others rushed forward to smite Malchus. But
before the soldiers could come to the defense of the high priest's servant,
Jesus raised a forbidding hand to Peter and, speaking sternly, said: "Peter,
put up your sword. They who take the sword shall perish by the sword. Do you
not under-

                               top of page - 1975

stand that it is the Father's will that I drink this cup? And do you not
further know that I could even now command more than twelve legions of angels
and their associates, who would deliver me from the hands of these few men?"

While Jesus thus effectively put a stop to this show of physical resistance by
his followers, it was enough to arouse the fear of the captain of the guards,
who now, with the help of his soldiers, laid heavy hands on Jesus and quickly
bound him. And as they tied his hands with heavy cords, Jesus said to them:
"Why do you come out against me with swords and with staves as if to seize a
robber? I was daily with you in the temple, publicly teaching the people, and
you made no effort to take me."

When Jesus had been bound, the captain, fearing that the followers of the
Master might attempt to rescue him, gave orders that they be seized; but the
soldiers were not quick enough since, having overheard the captain's orders to
arrest them, Jesus' followers fled in haste back into the ravine. All this time
John Mark had remained secluded in the near-by shed. When the guards started
back to Jerusalem with Jesus, John Mark attempted to steal out of the shed in
order to catch up with the fleeing apostles and disciples; but just as he
emerged, one of the last of the returning soldiers who had pursued the fleeing
disciples was passing near and, seeing this young man in his linen coat, gave
chase, almost overtaking him. In fact, the soldier got near enough to John to
lay hold upon his coat, but the young man freed himself from the garment,
escaping naked while the soldier held the empty coat. John Mark made his way in
all haste to David Zebedee on the upper trail. When he had told David what had
happened, they both hastened back to the tents of the sleeping apostles and
informed all eight of the Master's betrayal and arrest.

At about the time the eight apostles were being awakened, those who had fled up
the ravine were returning, and they all gathered together near the olive press
to debate what should be done. In the meantime, Simon Peter and John Zebedee,
who had hidden among the olive trees, had already gone on after the mob of
soldiers, guards, and servants, who were now leading Jesus back to Jerusalem as
they would have led a desperate criminal. John followed close behind the mob,
but Peter followed afar off. After John Mark's escape from the clutch of the
soldier, he provided himself with a cloak which he found in the tent of Simon
Peter and John Zebedee. He suspected the guards were going to take Jesus to the
home of Annas, the high priest emeritus; so he skirted around through the olive
orchards and was there ahead of the mob, hiding near the entrance to the gate
of the high priest's palace.

4. DISCUSSION AT THE OLIVE PRESS

James Zebedee found himself separated from Simon Peter and his brother John,
and so he now joined the other apostles and their fellow campers at the olive
press to deliberate on what should be done in view of the Master's arrest.

Andrew had been released from all responsibility in the group management of his
fellow apostles; accordingly, in this greatest of all crises in their lives, he
was silent. After a short informal discussion, Simon Zelotes stood up on the
stone wall of the olive press and, making an impassioned plea for loyalty to
the Master and the cause of the kingdom, exhorted his fellow apostles and the
other disciples to hasten on after the mob and effect the rescue of Jesus. The
majority of the company would have been disposed to follow his aggressive
leadership had

                               top of page - 1976

it not been for the advice of Nathaniel, who stood up the moment Simon had
finished speaking and called their attention to Jesus' oft-repeated teachings
regarding nonresistance. He further reminded them that Jesus had that very
night instructed them that they should preserve their lives for the time when
they should go forth into the world proclaiming the good news of the gospel of
the heavenly kingdom. And Nathaniel was encouraged in this stand by James
Zebedee, who now told how Peter and others drew their swords to defend the
Master against arrest, and that Jesus bade Simon Peter and his fellow swordsmen
sheathe their blades. Matthew and Philip also made speeches, but nothing
definite came of this discussion until Thomas, calling their attention to the
fact that Jesus had counseled Lazarus against exposing himself to death,
pointed out that they could do nothing to save their Master inasmuch as he
refused to allow his friends to defend him, and since he persisted in
refraining from the use of his divine powers to frustrate his human enemies.
Thomas persuaded them to scatter, every man for himself, with the understanding
that David Zebedee would remain at the camp to maintain a clearinghouse and
messenger headquarters for the group. By half past two o'clock that morning the
camp was deserted; only David remained on hand with three or four messengers,
the others having been dispatched to secure information as to where Jesus had
been taken, and what was going to be done with him.

Five of the apostles, Nathaniel, Matthew, Philip, and the twins, went into
hiding at Bethphage and Bethany. Thomas, Andrew, James, and Simon Zelotes were
hiding in the city. Simon Peter and John Zebedee followed along to the home of
Annas.

Shortly after daybreak, Simon Peter wandered back to the Gethsemane camp, a
dejected picture of deep despair. David sent him in charge of a messenger to
join his brother, Andrew, who was at the home of Nicodemus in Jerusalem.

Until the very end of the crucifixion, John Zebedee remained, as Jesus had
directed him, always near at hand, and it was he who supplied David's
messengers with information from hour to hour which they carried to David at
the garden camp, and which was then relayed to the hiding apostles and to
Jesus' family.

Surely, the shepherd is smitten and the sheep are scattered! While they all
vaguely realize that Jesus has forewarned them of this very situation, they are
too severely shocked by the Master's sudden disappearance to be able to use
their minds normally.

It was shortly after daylight and just after Peter had been sent to join his
brother, that Jude, Jesus' brother in the flesh, arrived in the camp, almost
breathless and in advance of the rest of Jesus' family, only to learn that the
Master had already been placed under arrest; and he hastened back down the
Jericho road to carry this information to his mother and to his brothers and
sisters. David Zebedee sent word to Jesus' family, by Jude, to forgather at the
house of Martha and Mary in Bethany and there await news which his messengers
would regularly bring them.

This was the situation during the last half of Thursday night and the early
morning hours of Friday as regards the apostles, the chief disciples, and the
earthly family of Jesus. And all these groups and individuals were kept in
touch with each other by the messenger service which David Zebedee continued to
operate from his headquarters at the Gethsemane camp.

                               top of page - 1977

5. ON THE WAY TO THE HIGH PRIEST'S PALACE

Before they started away from the garden with Jesus, a dispute arose between
the Jewish captain of the temple guards and the Roman captain of the company of
soldiers as to where they were to take Jesus. The captain of the temple guards
gave orders that he should be taken to Caiaphas, the acting high priest. The
captain of the Roman soldiers directed that Jesus be taken to the palace of
Annas, the former high priest and father-in-law of Caiaphas. And this he did
because the Romans were in the habit of dealing directly with Annas in all
matters having to do with the enforcement of the Jewish ecclesiastical laws.
And the orders of the Roman captain were obeyed; they took Jesus to the home of
Annas for his preliminary examination.

Judas marched along near the captains, overhearing all that was said, but took
no part in the dispute, for neither the Jewish captain nor the Roman officer
would so much as speak to the betrayer--they held him in such contempt.

About this time John Zebedee, remembering his Master's instructions to remain
always near at hand, hurried up near Jesus as he marched along between the two
captains. The commander of the temple guards, seeing John come up alongside,
said to his assistant: "Take this man and bind him. He is one of this fellow's
followers." But when the Roman captain heard this and, looking around, saw
John, he gave orders that the apostle should come over by him, and that no man
should molest him. Then the Roman captain said to the Jewish captain: "This man
is neither a traitor nor a coward. I saw him in the garden, and he did not draw
a sword to resist us. He has the courage to come forward to be with his Master,
and no man shall lay hands on him. The Roman law allows that any prisoner may
have at least one friend to stand with him before the judgment bar, and this
man shall not be prevented from standing by the side of his Master, the
prisoner." And when Judas heard this, he was so ashamed and humiliated that he
dropped back behind the marchers, coming up to the palace of Annas alone.

And this explains why John Zebedee was permitted to remain near Jesus all the
way through his trying experiences this night and the next day. The Jews feared
to say aught to John or to molest him in any way because he had something of
the status of a Roman counselor designated to act as observer of the
transactions of the Jewish ecclesiastical court. John's position of privilege
was made all the more secure when, in turning Jesus over to the captain of the
temple guards at the gate of Annas's palace, the Roman, addressing his
assistant, said: "Go along with this prisoner and see that these Jews do not
kill him without Pilate's consent. Watch that they do not assassinate him, and
see that his friend, the Galilean, is permitted to stand by and observe all
that goes on." And thus was John able to be near Jesus right on up to the time
of his death on the cross, though the other ten apostles were compelled to
remain in hiding. John was acting under Roman protection, and the Jews dared
not molest him until after the Master's death.

And all the way to the palace of Annas, Jesus opened not his mouth. From the
time of his arrest to the time of his appearance before Annas, the Son of Man
spoke no word.

                               top of page - 1978

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³      //       ³                   ³                   ³        ³             ³
³ In Gethsemane ³    Before The     ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³  SiteMap!   ³
³               ³      Sanh...      ³       PA...       ³        ³             ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
