              Urantia Book Paper 184 Before The Sanhedrin Court
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
 To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ... Before The Sanhedrin
                                      Court
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Paper 184 Before The Sanhedrin Court

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

REPRESENTATIVES of Annas had secretly instructed the captain of the Roman
soldiers to bring Jesus immediately to the palace of Annas after he had been
arrested. The former high priest desired to maintain his prestige as the chief
ecclesiastical authority of the Jews. He also had another purpose in detaining
Jesus at his house for several hours, and that was to allow time for legally
calling together the court of the Sanhedrin. It was not lawful to convene the
Sanhedrin court before the time of the offering of the morning sacrifice in the
temple, and this sacrifice was offered about three o'clock in the morning.

Annas knew that a court of Sanhedrists was in waiting at the palace of his
son-in-law, Caiaphas. Some thirty members of the Sanhedrin had gathered at the
home of the high priest by midnight so that they would be ready to sit in
judgment on Jesus when he might be brought before them. Only those members were
assembled who were strongly and openly opposed to Jesus and his teaching since
it required only twenty-three to constitute a trial court.

Jesus spent about three hours at the palace of Annas on Mount Olivet, not far
from the garden of Gethsemane, where they arrested him. John Zebedee was free
and safe in the palace of Annas not only because of the word of the Roman
captain, but also because he and his brother James were well known to the older
servants, having many times been guests at the palace as the former high priest
was a distant relative of their mother, Salome.

1. EXAMINATION BY ANNAS

Annas, enriched by the temple revenues, his son-in-law the acting high priest,
and with his relations to the Roman authorities, was indeed the most powerful
single individual in all Jewry. He was a suave and politic planner and plotter.
He desired to direct the matter of disposing of Jesus; he feared to trust such
an important undertaking wholly to his brusque and aggressive son-in-law. Annas
wanted to make sure that the Master's trial was kept in the hands of the
Sadducees; he feared the possible sympathy of some of the Pharisees, seeing
that practically all of those members of the Sanhedrin who had espoused the
cause of Jesus were Pharisees.

Annas had not seen Jesus for several years, not since the time when the Master
called at his house and immediately left upon observing his coldness and
reserve in receiving him. Annas had thought to presume on this early
acquaintance and thereby attempt to persuade Jesus to abandon his claims and
leave Palestine. He was reluctant to participate in the murder of a good man
and had reasoned that Jesus might choose to leave the country rather than

                               top of page - 1979

to suffer death. But when Annas stood before the stalwart and determined
Galilean, he knew at once that it would be useless to make such proposals.
Jesus was even more majestic and well poised than Annas remembered him.

When Jesus was young, Annas had taken a great interest in him, but now his
revenues were threatened by what Jesus had so recently done in driving the
money-changers and other commercial traders out of the temple. This act had
aroused the enmity of the former high priest far more than had Jesus'
teachings.

Annas entered his spacious audience chamber, seated himself in a large chair,
and commanded that Jesus be brought before him. After a few moments spent in
silently surveying the Master, he said: "You realize that something must be
done about your teaching since you are disturbing the peace and order of our
country." As Annas looked inquiringly at Jesus, the Master looked full into his
eyes but made no reply. Again Annas spoke, "What are the names of your
disciples, besides Simon Zelotes, the agitator?" Again Jesus looked down upon
him, but he did not answer.

Annas was considerably disturbed by Jesus' refusal to answer his questions, so
much so that he said to him: "Do you have no care as to whether I am friendly
to you or not? Do you have no regard for the power I have in determining the
issues of your coming trial?" When Jesus heard this, he said: "Annas, you know
that you could have no power over me unless it were permitted by my Father.
Some would destroy the Son of Man because they are ignorant; they know no
better, but you, friend, know what you are doing. How can you, therefore,
reject the light of God?"

The kindly manner in which Jesus spoke to Annas almost bewildered him. But he
had already determined in his mind that Jesus must either leave Palestine or
die; so he summoned up his courage and asked: "Just what is it you are trying
to teach the people? What do you claim to be?" Jesus answered: "You know full
well that I have spoken openly to the world. I have taught in the synagogues
and many times in the temple, where all the Jews and many of the gentiles have
heard me. In secret I have spoken nothing; why, then, do you ask me about my
teaching? Why do you not summon those who have heard me and inquire of them?
Behold, all Jerusalem has heard that which I have spoken even if you have not
yourself heard these teachings." But before Annas could make reply, the chief
steward of the palace, who was standing near, struck Jesus in the face with his
hand, saying, "How dare you answer the high priest with such words?" Annas
spoke no words of rebuke to his steward, but Jesus addressed him, saying, "My
friend, if I have spoken evil, bear witness against the evil; but if I have
spoken the truth, why, then, should you smite me?"

Although Annas regretted that his steward had struck Jesus, he was too proud to
take notice of the matter. In his confusion he went into another room, leaving
Jesus alone with the household attendants and the temple guards for almost an
hour.

When he returned, going up to the Master's side, he said, "Do you claim to be
the Messiah, the deliverer of Israel?" Said Jesus: "Annas, you have known me
from the times of my youth. You know that I claim to be nothing except that
which my Father has appointed, and that I have been sent to all men, gentile as
well as Jew." Then said Annas: "I have been told that you have claimed to be
the Messiah; is that true?" Jesus looked upon Annas but only replied, "So you
have said."

                               top of page - 1980

About this time messengers arrived from the palace of Caiaphas to inquire what
time Jesus would be brought before the court of the Sanhedrin, and since it was
nearing the break of day, Annas thought best to send Jesus bound and in the
custody of the temple guards to Caiaphas. He himself followed after them
shortly.

2. PETER IN THE COURTYARD

As the band of guards and soldiers approached the entrance to the palace of
Annas, John Zebedee was marching by the side of the captain of the Roman
soldiers. Judas had dropped some distance behind, and Simon Peter followed afar
off. After John had entered the palace courtyard with Jesus and the guards,
Judas came up to the gate but, seeing Jesus and John, went on over to the home
of Caiaphas, where he knew the real trial of the Master would later take place.
Soon after Judas had left, Simon Peter arrived, and as he stood before the
gate, John saw him just as they were about to take Jesus into the palace. The
portress who kept the gate knew John, and when he spoke to her, requesting that
she let Peter in, she gladly assented.

Peter, upon entering the courtyard, went over to the charcoal fire and sought
to warm himself, for the night was chilly. He felt very much out of place here
among the enemies of Jesus, and indeed he was out of place. The Master had not
instructed him to keep near at hand as he had admonished John. Peter belonged
with the other apostles, who had been specifically warned not to endanger their
lives during these times of the trial and crucifixion of their Master.

Peter threw away his sword shortly before he came up to the palace gate so that
he entered the courtyard of Annas unarmed. His mind was in a whirl of
confusion; he could scarcely realize that Jesus had been arrested. He could not
grasp the reality of the situation--that he was here in the courtyard of Annas,
warming himself beside the servants of the high priest. He wondered what the
other apostles were doing and, in turning over in his mind as to how John came
to be admitted to the palace, concluded that it was because he was known to the
servants, since he had bidden the gate-keeper admit him.

Shortly after the portress let Peter in, and while he was warming himself by
the fire, she went over to him and mischievously said, "Are you not also one of
this man's disciples?" Now Peter should not have been surprised at this
recognition, for it was John who had requested that the girl let him pass
through the palace gates; but he was in such a tense nervous state that this
identification as a disciple threw him off his balance, and with only one
thought uppermost in his mind--the thought of escaping with his life--he
promptly answered the maid's question by saying, "I am not."

Very soon another servant came up to Peter and asked: "Did I not see you in the
garden when they arrested this fellow? Are you not also one of his followers?"
Peter was now thoroughly alarmed; he saw no way of safely escaping from these
accusers; so he vehemently denied all connection with Jesus, saying, "I know
not this man, neither am I one of his followers."

About this time the portress of the gate drew Peter to one side and said: "I am
sure you are a disciple of this Jesus, not only because one of his followers
bade me let you in the courtyard, but my sister here has seen you in the temple
with this man. Why do you deny this?" When Peter heard the maid accuse him, he
denied all knowledge of Jesus with much cursing and swearing, again saying,

                               top of page - 1981

"I am not this man's follower; I do not even know him; I never heard of him
before."

Peter left the fireside for a time while he walked about the courtyard. He
would have liked to have escaped, but he feared to attract attention to
himself. Getting cold, he returned to the fireside, and one of the men standing
near him said: "Surely you are one of this man's disciples. This Jesus is a
Galilean, and your speech betrays you, for you also speak as a Galilean." And
again Peter denied all connection with his Master.

Peter was so perturbed that he sought to escape contact with his accusers by
going away from the fire and remaining by himself on the porch. After more than
an hour of this isolation, the gate-keeper and her sister chanced to meet him,
and both of them again teasingly charged him with being a follower of Jesus.
And again he denied the accusation. Just as he had once more denied all
connection with Jesus, the cock crowed, and Peter remembered the words of
warning spoken to him by his Master earlier that same night. As he stood there,
heavy of heart and crushed with the sense of guilt, the palace doors opened,
and the guards led Jesus past on the way to Caiaphas. As the Master passed
Peter, he saw, by the light of the torches, the look of despair on the face of
his former self-confident and superficially brave apostle, and he turned and
looked upon Peter. Peter never forgot that look as long as he lived. It was
such a glance of commingled pity and love as mortal man had never beheld in the
face of the Master.

After Jesus and the guards passed out of the palace gates, Peter followed them,
but only for a short distance. He could not go farther. He sat down by the side
of the road and wept bitterly. And when he had shed these tears of agony, he
turned his steps back toward the camp, hoping to find his brother, Andrew. On
arriving at the camp, he found only David Zebedee, who sent a messenger to
direct him to where his brother had gone to hide in Jerusalem.

Peter's entire experience occurred in the courtyard of the palace of Annas on
Mount Olivet. He did not follow Jesus to the palace of the high priest,
Caiaphas. That Peter was brought to the realization that he had repeatedly
denied his Master by the crowing of a cock indicates that this all occurred
outside of Jerusalem since it was against the law to keep poultry within the
city proper.

Until the crowing of the cock brought Peter to his better senses, he had only
thought, as he walked up and down the porch to keep warm, how cleverly he had
eluded the accusations of the servants, and how he had frustrated their purpose
to identify him with Jesus. For the time being, he had only considered that
these servants had no moral or legal right thus to question him, and he really
congratulated himself over the manner in which he thought he had avoided being
identified and possibly subjected to arrest and imprisonment. Not until the
cock crowed did it occur to Peter that he had denied his Master. Not until
Jesus looked upon him, did he realize that he had failed to live up to his
privileges as an ambassador of the kingdom.

Having taken the first step along the path of compromise and least resistance,
there was nothing apparent to Peter but to go on with the course of conduct
decided upon. It requires a great and noble character, having started out
wrong, to turn about and go right. All too often one's own mind tends to
justify continuance in the path of error when once it is entered upon.

                               top of page - 1982

Peter never fully believed that he could be forgiven until he met his Master
after the resurrection and saw that he was received just as before the
experiences of this tragic night of the denials.

3. BEFORE THE COURT OF SANHEDRISTS

It was about half past three o'clock this Friday morning when the chief priest,
Caiaphas, called the Sanhedrist court of inquiry to order and asked that Jesus
be brought before them for his formal trial. On three previous occasions the
Sanhedrin, by a large majority vote, had decreed the death of Jesus, had
decided that he was worthy of death on informal charges of law-breaking,
blasphemy, and flouting the traditions of the fathers of Israel.

This was not a regularly called meeting of the Sanhedrin and was not held in
the usual place, the chamber of hewn stone in the temple. This was a special
trial court of some thirty Sanhedrists and was convened in the palace of the
high priest. John Zebedee was present with Jesus throughout this so-called
trial.

How these chief priests, scribes, Sadducees, and some of the Pharisees
flattered themselves that Jesus, the disturber of their position and the
challenger of their authority, was now securely in their hands! And they were
resolved that he should never live to escape their vengeful clutches.

Ordinarily, the Jews, when trying a man on a capital charge, proceeded with
great caution and provided every safeguard of fairness in the selection of
witnesses and the entire conduct of the trial. But on this occasion, Caiaphas
was more of a prosecutor than an unbiased judge.

Jesus appeared before this court clothed in his usual garments and with his
hands bound together behind his back. The entire court was startled and
somewhat confused by his majestic appearance. Never had they gazed upon such a
prisoner nor witnessed such composure in a man on trial for his life.

The Jewish law required that at least two witnesses must agree upon any point
before a charge could be laid against the prisoner. Judas could not be used as
a witness against Jesus because the Jewish law specifically forbade the
testimony of a traitor. More than a score of false witnesses were on hand to
testify against Jesus, but their testimony was so contradictory and so
evidently trumped up that the Sanhedrists themselves were very much ashamed of
the performance. Jesus stood there, looking down benignly upon these perjurers,
and his very countenance disconcerted the lying witnesses. Throughout all this
false testimony the Master never said a word; he made no reply to their many
false accusations.

The first time any two of their witnesses approached even the semblance of an
agreement was when two men testified that they had heard Jesus say in the
course of one of his temple discourses that he would "destroy this temple made
with hands and in three days make another temple without hands." That was not
exactly what Jesus said, regardless of the fact that he pointed to his own body
when he made the remark referred to.

Although the high priest shouted at Jesus, "Do you not answer any of these
charges?" Jesus opened not his mouth. He stood there in silence while all of
these false witnesses gave their testimony. Hatred, fanaticism, and
unscrupulous exaggeration so characterized the words of these perjurers that
their testimony

                               top of page - 1983

fell in its own entanglements. The very best refutation of their false
accusations was the Master's calm and majestic silence.

Shortly after the beginning of the testimony of the false witnesses, Annas
arrived and took his seat beside Caiaphas. Annas now arose and argued that this
threat of Jesus to destroy the temple was sufficient to warrant three charges
against him:

1. That he was a dangerous traducer of the people. That he taught them
impossible things and otherwise deceived them.

2. That he was a fanatical revolutionist in that he advocated laying violent
hands on the sacred temple, else how could he destroy it?

3. That he taught magic inasmuch as he promised to build a new temple, and that
without hands.

Already had the full Sanhedrin agreed that Jesus was guilty of death-deserving
transgressions of the Jewish laws, but they were now more concerned with
developing charges regarding his conduct and teachings which would justify
Pilate in pronouncing the death sentence upon their prisoner. They knew that
they must secure the consent of the Roman governor before Jesus could legally
be put to death. And Annas was minded to proceed along the line of making it
appear that Jesus was a dangerous teacher to be abroad among the people.

But Caiaphas could not longer endure the sight of the Master standing there in
perfect composure and unbroken silence. He thought he knew at least one way in
which the prisoner might be induced to speak. Accordingly, he rushed over to
the side of Jesus and, shaking his accusing finger in the Master's face, said:
"I adjure you, in the name of the living God, that you tell us whether you are
the Deliverer, the Son of God." Jesus answered Caiaphas: "I am. Soon I go to
the Father, and presently shall the Son of Man be clothed with power and once
more reign over the hosts of heaven."

When the high priest heard Jesus utter these words, he was exceedingly angry,
and rending his outer garments, he exclaimed: "What further need have we of
witnesses? Behold, now have you all heard this man's blasphemy. What do you now
think should be done with this law-breaker and blasphemer?" And they all
answered in unison, "He is worthy of death; let him be crucified."

Jesus manifested no interest in any question asked him when before Annas or the
Sanhedrists except the one question relative to his bestowal mission. When
asked if he were the Son of God, he instantly and unequivocally answered in the
affirmative.

Annas desired that the trial proceed further, and that charges of a definite
nature regarding Jesus' relation to the Roman law and Roman institutions be
formulated for subsequent presentation to Pilate. The councilors were anxious
to carry these matters to a speedy termination, not only because it was the
preparation day for the Passover and no secular work should be done after noon,
but also because they feared Pilate might any time return to the Roman capital
of Judea, Caesarea, since he was in Jerusalem only for the Passover
celebration.

But Annas did not succeed in keeping control of the court. After Jesus had so
unexpectedly answered Caiaphas, the high priest stepped forward and smote him
in the face with his hand. Annas was truly shocked as the other members of the
court, in passing out of the room, spit in Jesus' face, and many of them
mockingly slapped him with the palms of their hands. And thus in disorder and

                               top of page - 1984

with such unheard-of confusion this first session of the Sanhedrist trial of
Jesus ended at half past four o'clock.

Thirty prejudiced and tradition-blinded false judges, with their false
witnesses, are presuming to sit in judgment on the righteous Creator of a
universe. And these impassioned accusers are exasperated by the majestic
silence and superb bearing of this God-man. His silence is terrible to endure;
his speech is fearlessly defiant. He is unmoved by their threats and undaunted
by their assaults. Man sits in judgment on God, but even then he loves them and
would save them if he could.

4. THE HOUR OF HUMILIATION

The Jewish law required that, in the matter of passing the death sentence,
there should be two sessions of the court. This second session was to be held
on the day following the first, and the intervening time was to be spent in
fasting and mourning by the members of the court. But these men could not await
the next day for the confirmation of their decision that Jesus must die. They
waited only one hour. In the meantime Jesus was left in the audience chamber in
the custody of the temple guards, who, with the servants of the high priest,
amused themselves by heaping every sort of indignity upon the Son of Man. They
mocked him, spit upon him, and cruelly buffeted him. They would strike him in
the face with a rod and then say, "Prophesy to us, you the Deliverer, who it
was that struck you." And thus they went on for one full hour, reviling and
mistreating this unresisting man of Galilee.

During this tragic hour of suffering and mock trials before the ignorant and
unfeeling guards and servants, John Zebedee waited in lonely terror in an
adjoining room. When these abuses first started, Jesus indicated to John, by a
nod of his head, that he should retire. The Master well knew that, if he
permitted his apostle to remain in the room to witness these indignities,
John's resentment would be so aroused as to produce such an outbreak of
protesting indignation as would probably result in his death.

Throughout this awful hour Jesus uttered no word. To this gentle and sensitive
soul of humankind, joined in personality relationship with the God of all this
universe, there was no more bitter portion of his cup of humiliation than this
terrible hour at the mercy of these ignorant and cruel guards and servants, who
had been stimulated to abuse him by the example of the members of this
so-called Sanhedrist court.

The human heart cannot possibly conceive of the shudder of indignation that
swept out over a vast universe as the celestial intelligences witnessed this
sight of their beloved Sovereign submitting himself to the will of his ignorant
and misguided creatures on the sin-darkened sphere of unfortunate Urantia.

What is this trait of the animal in man which leads him to want to insult and
physically assault that which he cannot spiritually attain or intellectually
achieve? In the half-civilized man there still lurks an evil brutality which
seeks to vent itself upon those who are superior in wisdom and spiritual
attainment. Witness the evil coarseness and the brutal ferocity of these
supposedly civilized men as they derived a certain form of animal pleasure from
this physical attack upon the unresisting Son of Man. As these insults, taunts,
and blows fell upon

                               top of page - 1985

Jesus, he was undefending but not defenseless. Jesus was not vanquished, merely
uncontending in the material sense.

These are the moments of the Master's greatest victories in all his long and
eventful career as maker, upholder, and savior of a vast and far-flung
universe. Having lived to the full a life of revealing God to man, Jesus is now
engaged in making a new and unprecedented revelation of man to God. Jesus is
now revealing to the worlds the final triumph over all fears of creature
personality isolation. The Son of Man has finally achieved the realization of
identity as the Son of God. Jesus does not hesitate to assert that he and the
Father are one; and on the basis of the fact and truth of that supreme and
supernal experience, he admonishes every kingdom believer to become one with
him even as he and his Father are one. The living experience in the religion of
Jesus thus becomes the sure and certain technique whereby the spiritually
isolated and cosmically lonely mortals of earth are enabled to escape
personality isolation, with all its consequences of fear and associated
feelings of helplessness. In the fraternal realities of the kingdom of heaven
the faith sons of God find final deliverance from the isolation of the self,
both personal and planetary. The God-knowing believer increasingly experiences
the ecstasy and grandeur of spiritual socialization on a universe
scale--citizenship on high in association with the eternal realization of the
divine destiny of perfection attainment.

5. THE SECOND MEETING OF THE COURT

At five-thirty o'clock the court reassembled, and Jesus was led into the
adjoining room, where John was waiting. Here the Roman soldier and the temple
guards watched over Jesus while the court began the formulation of the charges
which were to be presented to Pilate. Annas made it clear to his associates
that the charge of blasphemy would carry no weight with Pilate. Judas was
present during this second meeting of the court, but he gave no testimony.

This session of the court lasted only a half hour, and when they adjourned to
go before Pilate, they had drawn up the indictment of Jesus, as being worthy of
death, under three heads:

1. That he was a perverter of the Jewish nation; he deceived the people and
incited them to rebellion.

2. That he taught the people to refuse to pay tribute to Caesar.

3. That, by claiming to be a king and the founder of a new sort of kingdom, he
incited treason against the emperor.

This entire procedure was irregular and wholly contrary to the Jewish laws. No
two witnesses had agreed on any matter except those who testified regarding
Jesus' statement about destroying the temple and raising it again in three
days. And even concerning that point, no witnesses spoke for the defense, and
neither was Jesus asked to explain his intended meaning.

The only point the court could have consistently judged him on was that of
blasphemy, and that would have rested entirely on his own testimony. Even
concerning blasphemy, they failed to cast a formal ballot for the death
sentence.

And now they presumed to formulate three charges, with which to go before
Pilate, on which no witnesses had been heard, and which were agreed upon while
the accused prisoner was absent. When this was done, three of the Pharisees
took

                               top of page - 1986

their leave; they wanted to see Jesus destroyed, but they would not formulate
charges against him without witnesses and in his absence.

Jesus did not again appear before the Sanhedrist court. They did not want again
to look upon his face as they sat in judgment upon his innocent life. Jesus did
not know (as a man) of their formal charges until he heard them recited by
Pilate.

While Jesus was in the room with John and the guards, and while the court was
in its second session, some of the women about the high priest's palace,
together with their friends, came to look upon the strange prisoner, and one of
them asked him, "Are you the Messiah, the Son of God?" And Jesus answered: "If
I tell you, you will not believe me; and if I ask you, you will not answer."

At six o'clock that morning Jesus was led forth from the home of Caiaphas to
appear before Pilate for confirmation of the sentence of death which this
Sanhedrist court had so unjustly and irregularly decreed.

                               top of page - 1987

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   The Betrayal   ³     The Trial     ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      An...       ³     Befor...      ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
