                    Urantia Book Paper 187 The Crucifixion
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
    To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ... The Crucifixion
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          Paper 187 The Crucifixion

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

AFTER the two brigands had been made ready, the soldiers, under the direction
of a centurion, started for the scene of the crucifixion. The centurion in
charge of these twelve soldiers was the same captain who had led forth the
Roman soldiers the previous night to arrest Jesus in Gethsemane. It was the
Roman custom to assign four soldiers for each person to be crucified. The two
brigands were properly scourged before they were taken out to be crucified, but
Jesus was given no further physical punishment; the captain undoubtedly thought
he had already been sufficiently scourged, even before his condemnation.

The two thieves crucified with Jesus were associates of Barabbas and would
later have been put to death with their leader if he had not been released as
the Passover pardon of Pilate. Jesus was thus crucified in the place of
Barabbas.

What Jesus is now about to do, submit to death on the cross, he does of his own
free will. In foretelling this experience, he said: "The Father loves and
sustains me because I am willing to lay down my life. But I will take it up
again. No one takes my life away from me--I lay it down of myself. I have
authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up. I have received
such a commandment from my Father."

It was just before nine o'clock this morning when the soldiers led Jesus from
the praetorium on the way to Golgotha. They were followed by many who secretly
sympathized with Jesus, but most of this group of two hundred or more were
either his enemies or curious idlers who merely desired to enjoy the shock of
witnessing the crucifixions. Only a few of the Jewish leaders went out to see
Jesus die on the cross. Knowing that he had been turned over to the Roman
soldiers by Pilate, and that he was condemned to die, they busied themselves
with their meeting in the temple, whereat they discussed what should be done
with his followers.

1. ON THE WAY TO GOLGOTHA

Before leaving the courtyard of the praetorium, the soldiers placed the
crossbeam on Jesus' shoulders. It was the custom to compel the condemned man to
carry the crossbeam to the site of the crucifixion. Such a condemned man did
not carry the whole cross, only this shorter timber. The longer and upright
pieces of timber for the three crosses had already been transported to Golgotha
and, by the time of the arrival of the soldiers and their prisoners, had been
firmly implanted in the ground.

According to custom the captain led the procession, carrying small white boards
on which had been written with charcoal the names of the criminals and

                               top of page - 2005

the nature of the crimes for which they had been condemned. For the two thieves
the centurion had notices which gave their names, underneath which was written
the one word, "Brigand." It was the custom, after the victim had been nailed to
the crossbeam and hoisted to his place on the upright timber, to nail this
notice to the top of the cross, just above the head of the criminal, that all
witnesses might know for what crime the condemned man was being crucified. The
legend which the centurion carried to put on the cross of Jesus had been
written by Pilate himself in Latin, Greek, and Aramaic, and it read: "Jesus of
Nazareth--the King of the Jews."

Some of the Jewish authorities who were yet present when Pilate wrote this
legend made vigorous protest against calling Jesus the "king of the Jews." But
Pilate reminded them that such an accusation was part of the charge which led
to his condemnation. When the Jews saw they could not prevail upon Pilate to
change his mind, they pleaded that at least it be modified to read, "He said,
`I am the king of the Jews."' But Pilate was adamant; he would not alter the
writing. To all further supplication he only replied, "What I have written, I
have written."

Ordinarily, it was the custom to journey to Golgotha by the longest road in
order that a large number of persons might view the condemned criminal, but on
this day they went by the most direct route to the Damascus gate, which led out
of the city to the north, and following this road, they soon arrived at
Golgotha, the official crucifixion site of Jerusalem. Beyond Golgotha were the
villas of the wealthy, and on the other side of the road were the tombs of many
well-to-do Jews.

Crucifixion was not a Jewish mode of punishment. Both the Greeks and the Romans
learned this method of execution from the Phoenicians. Even Herod, with all his
cruelty, did not resort to crucifixion. The Romans never crucified a Roman
citizen; only slaves and subject peoples were subjected to this dishonorable
mode of death. During the siege of Jerusalem, just forty years after the
crucifixion of Jesus, all of Golgotha was covered by thousands upon thousands
of crosses upon which, from day to day, there perished the flower of the Jewish
race. A terrible harvest, indeed, of the seed-sowing of this day.

As the death procession passed along the narrow streets of Jerusalem, many of
the tenderhearted Jewish women who had heard Jesus' words of good cheer and
compassion, and who knew of his life of loving ministry, could not refrain from
weeping when they saw him being led forth to such an ignoble death. As he
passed by, many of these women bewailed and lamented. And when some of them
even dared to follow along by his side, the Master turned his head toward them
and said: "Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but rather weep for
yourselves and for your children. My work is about done--soon I go to my
Father--but the times of terrible trouble for Jerusalem are just beginning.
Behold, the days are coming in which you shall say: Blessed are the barren and
those whose breasts have never suckled their young. In those days will you pray
the rocks of the hills to fall on you in order that you may be delivered from
the terrors of your troubles."

These women of Jerusalem were indeed courageous to manifest sympathy for Jesus,
for it was strictly against the law to show friendly feelings for one who was
being led forth to crucifixion. It was permitted the rabble to jeer, mock, and
ridicule the condemned, but it was not allowed that any sympathy should

                               top of page - 2006

be expressed. Though Jesus appreciated the manifestation of sympathy in this
dark hour when his friends were in hiding, he did not want these kindhearted
women to incur the displeasure of the authorities by daring to show compassion
in his behalf. Even at such a time as this Jesus thought little about himself,
only of the terrible days of tragedy ahead for Jerusalem and the whole Jewish
nation.

As the Master trudged along on the way to the crucifixion, he was very weary;
he was nearly exhausted. He had had neither food nor water since the Last
Supper at the home of Elijah Mark; neither had he been permitted to enjoy one
moment of sleep. In addition, there had been one hearing right after another up
to the hour of his condemnation, not to mention the abusive scourgings with
their accompanying physical suffering and loss of blood. Superimposed upon all
this was his extreme mental anguish, his acute spiritual tension, and a
terrible feeling of human loneliness.

Shortly after passing through the gate on the way out of the city, as Jesus
staggered on bearing the crossbeam, his physical strength momentarily gave way,
and he fell beneath the weight of his heavy burden. The soldiers shouted at him
and kicked him, but he could not arise. When the captain saw this, knowing what
Jesus had already endured, he commanded the soldiers to desist. Then he ordered
a passerby, one Simon from Cyrene, to take the crossbeam from Jesus' shoulders
and compelled him to carry it the rest of the way to Golgotha.

This man Simon had come all the way from Cyrene, in northern Africa, to attend
the Passover. He was stopping with other Cyrenians just outside the city walls
and was on his way to the temple services in the city when the Roman captain
commanded him to carry Jesus' crossbeam. Simon lingered all through the hours
of the Master's death on the cross, talking with many of his friends and with
his enemies. After the resurrection and before leaving Jerusalem, he became a
valiant believer in the gospel of the kingdom, and when he returned home, he
led his family into the heavenly kingdom. His two sons, Alexander and Rufus,
became very effective teachers of the new gospel in Africa. But Simon never
knew that Jesus, whose burden he bore, and the Jewish tutor who once befriended
his injured son, were the same person.

It was shortly after nine o'clock when this procession of death arrived at
Golgotha, and the Roman soldiers set themselves about the task of nailing the
two brigands and the Son of Man to their respective crosses.

2. THE CRUCIFIXION

The soldiers first bound the Master's arms with cords to the crossbeam, and
then they nailed his hands to the wood. When they had hoisted this crossbeam up
on the post, and after they had nailed it securely to the upright timber of the
cross, they bound and nailed his feet to the wood, using one long nail to
penetrate both feet. The upright timber had a large peg, inserted at the proper
height, which served as a sort of saddle for supporting the body weight. The
cross was not high, the Master's feet being only about three feet from the
ground. He was therefore able to hear all that was said of him in derision and
could plainly see the expression on the faces of all those who so thoughtlessly
mocked him. And also could those present easily hear all that Jesus said during
these hours of lingering torture and slow death.

                               top of page - 2007

It was the custom to remove all clothes from those who were to be crucified,
but since the Jews greatly objected to the public exposure of the naked human
form, the Romans always provided a suitable loin cloth for all persons
crucified at Jerusalem. Accordingly, after Jesus' clothes had been removed, he
was thus garbed before he was put upon the cross.

Crucifixion was resorted to in order to provide a cruel and lingering
punishment, the victim sometimes not dying for several days. There was
considerable sentiment against crucifixion in Jerusalem, and there existed a
society of Jewish women who always sent a representative to crucifixions for
the purpose of offering drugged wine to the victim in order to lessen his
suffering. But when Jesus tasted this narcotized wine, as thirsty as he was, he
refused to drink it. The Master chose to retain his human consciousness until
the very end. He desired to meet death, even in this cruel and inhuman form,
and conquer it by voluntary submission to the full human experience.

Before Jesus was put on his cross, the two brigands had already been placed on
their crosses, all the while cursing and spitting upon their executioners.
Jesus' only words, as they nailed him to the crossbeam, were, "Father, forgive
them, for they know not what they do." He could not have so mercifully and
lovingly interceded for his executioners if such thoughts of affectionate
devotion had not been the mainspring of all his life of unselfish service. The
ideas, motives, and longings of a lifetime are openly revealed in a crisis.

After the Master was hoisted on the cross, the captain nailed the title up
above his head, and it read in three languages, "Jesus of Nazareth--the King of
the Jews." The Jews were infuriated by this believed insult. But Pilate was
chafed by their disrespectful manner; he felt he had been intimidated and
humiliated, and he took this method of obtaining petty revenge. He could have
written "Jesus, a rebel." But he well knew how these Jerusalem Jews detested
the very name of Nazareth, and he was determined thus to humiliate them. He
knew that they would also be cut to the very quick by seeing this executed
Galilean called "The King of the Jews."

Many of the Jewish leaders, when they learned how Pilate had sought to deride
them by placing this inscription on the cross of Jesus, hastened out to
Golgotha, but they dared not attempt to remove it since the Roman soldiers were
standing on guard. Not being able to remove the title, these leaders mingled
with the crowd and did their utmost to incite derision and ridicule, lest any
give serious regard to the inscription.

The Apostle John, with Mary the mother of Jesus, Ruth, and Jude, arrived on the
scene just after Jesus had been hoisted to his position on the cross, and just
as the captain was nailing the title above the Master's head. John was the only
one of the eleven apostles to witness the crucifixion, and even he was not
present all of the time since he ran into Jerusalem to bring back his mother
and her friends soon after he had brought Jesus' mother to the scene.

As Jesus saw his mother, with John and his brother and sister, he smiled but
said nothing. Meanwhile the four soldiers assigned to the Master's crucifixion,
as was the custom, had divided his clothes among them, one taking the sandals,
one the turban, one the girdle, and the fourth the cloak. This left the tunic,
or seamless vestment reaching down to near the knees, to be cut up into four
pieces, but when the soldiers saw what an unusual garment it was, they decided
to cast lots for it. Jesus looked down on them while they divided his garments,
and the thoughtless crowd jeered at him.

                               top of page - 2008

It was well that the Roman soldiers took possession of the Master's clothing.
Otherwise, if his followers had gained possession of these garments, they would
have been tempted to resort to superstitious relic worship. The Master desired
that his followers should have nothing material to associate with his life on
earth. He wanted to leave mankind only the memory of a human life dedicated to
the high spiritual ideal of being consecrated to doing the Father's will.

3. THOSE WHO SAW THE CRUCIFIXION

At about half past nine o'clock this Friday morning, Jesus was hung upon the
cross. Before eleven o'clock, upward of one thousand persons had assembled to
witness this spectacle of the crucifixion of the Son of Man. Throughout these
dreadful hours the unseen hosts of a universe stood in silence while they gazed
upon this extraordinary phenomenon of the Creator as he was dying the death of
the creature, even the most ignoble death of a condemned criminal.

Standing near the cross at one time or another during the crucifixion were
Mary, Ruth, Jude, John, Salome (John's mother), and a group of earnest women
believers including Mary the wife of Clopas and sister of Jesus' mother, Mary
Magdalene, and Rebecca, onetime of Sepphoris. These and other friends of Jesus
held their peace while they witnessed his great patience and fortitude and
gazed upon his intense sufferings.

Many who passed by wagged their heads and, railing at him, said: "You who would
destroy the temple and build it again in three days, save yourself. If you are
the Son of God, why do you not come down from your cross?" In like manner some
of the rulers of the Jews mocked him, saying, "He saved others, but himself he
cannot save." Others said, "If you are the king of the Jews, come down from the
cross, and we will believe in you." And later on they mocked him the more,
saying: "He trusted in God to deliver him. He even claimed to be the Son of
God--look at him now--crucified between two thieves." Even the two thieves also
railed at him and cast reproach upon him.

Inasmuch as Jesus would make no reply to their taunts, and since it was nearing
noontime of this special preparation day, by half past eleven o'clock most of
the jesting and jeering crowd had gone its way; less than fifty persons
remained on the scene. The soldiers now prepared to eat lunch and drink their
cheap, sour wine as they settled down for the long deathwatch. As they partook
of their wine, they derisively offered a toast to Jesus, saying, "Hail and good
fortune! to the king of the Jews." And they were astonished at the Master's
tolerant regard of their ridicule and mocking.

When Jesus saw them eat and drink, he looked down upon them and said, "I
thirst." When the captain of the guard heard Jesus say, "I thirst," he took
some of the wine from his bottle and, putting the saturated sponge stopper upon
the end of a javelin, raised it to Jesus so that he could moisten his parched
lips.

Jesus had purposed to live without resort to his supernatural power, and he
likewise elected to die as an ordinary mortal upon the cross. He had lived as a
man, and he would die as a man--doing the Father's will.

4. THE THIEF ON THE CROSS

One of the brigands railed at Jesus, saying, "If you are the Son of God, why do
you not save yourself and us?" But when he had reproached Jesus,

                               top of page - 2009

the other thief, who had many times heard the Master teach, said: "Do you have
no fear even of God? Do you not see that we are suffering justly for our deeds,
but that this man suffers unjustly? Better that we should seek forgiveness for
our sins and salvation for our souls." When Jesus heard the thief say this, he
turned his face toward him and smiled approvingly. When the malefactor saw the
face of Jesus turned toward him, he mustered up his courage, fanned the
flickering flame of his faith, and said, "Lord, remember me when you come into
your kingdom." And then Jesus said, "Verily, verily, I say to you today, you
shall sometime be with me in Paradise."

The Master had time amidst the pangs of mortal death to listen to the faith
confession of the believing brigand. When this thief reached out for salvation,
he found deliverance. Many times before this he had been constrained to believe
in Jesus, but only in these last hours of consciousness did he turn with a
whole heart toward the Master's teaching. When he saw the manner in which Jesus
faced death upon the cross, this thief could no longer resist the conviction
that this Son of Man was indeed the Son of God.

During this episode of the conversion and reception of the thief into the
kingdom by Jesus, the Apostle John was absent, having gone into the city to
bring his mother and her friends to the scene of the crucifixion. Luke
subsequently heard this story from the converted Roman captain of the guard.

The Apostle John told about the crucifixion as he remembered the event two
thirds of a century after its occurrence. The other records were based upon the
recital of the Roman centurion on duty who, because of what he saw and heard,
subsequently believed in Jesus and entered into the full fellowship of the
kingdom of heaven on earth.

This young man, the penitent brigand, had been led into a life of violence and
wrongdoing by those who extolled such a career of robbery as an effective
patriotic protest against political oppression and social injustice. And this
sort of teaching, plus the urge for adventure, led many otherwise well-meaning
youths to enlist in these daring expeditions of robbery. This young man had
looked upon Barabbas as a hero. Now he saw that he had been mistaken. Here on
the cross beside him he saw a really great man, a true hero. Here was a hero
who fired his zeal and inspired his highest ideas of moral self-respect and
quickened all his ideals of courage, manhood, and bravery. In beholding Jesus,
there sprang up in his heart an overwhelming sense of love, loyalty, and
genuine greatness.

And if any other person among the jeering crowd had experienced the birth of
faith within his soul and had appealed to the mercy of Jesus, he would have
been received with the same loving consideration that was displayed toward the
believing brigand.

Just after the repentant thief heard the Master's promise that they should
sometime meet in Paradise, John returned from the city, bringing with him his
mother and a company of almost a dozen women believers. John took up his
position near Mary the mother of Jesus, supporting her. Her son Jude stood on
the other side. As Jesus looked down upon this scene, it was noontide, and he
said to his mother, "Woman, behold your son!" And speaking to John, he said,
"My son, behold your mother!" And then he addressed them both, saying, "I
desire that you depart from this place." And so John and Jude led Mary away

                               top of page - 2010

from Golgotha. John took the mother of Jesus to the place where he tarried in
Jerusalem and then hastened back to the scene of the crucifixion. After the
Passover Mary returned to Bethsaida, where she lived at John's home for the
rest of her natural life. Mary did not live quite one year after the death of
Jesus.

After Mary left, the other women withdrew for a short distance and remained in
attendance upon Jesus until he expired on the cross, and they were yet standing
by when the body of the Master was taken down for burial.

5. LAST HOUR ON THE CROSS

Although it was early in the season for such a phenomenon, shortly after twelve
o'clock the sky darkened by reason of the fine sand in the air. The people of
Jerusalem knew that this meant the coming of one of those hot-wind sandstorms
from the Arabian desert. Before one o'clock the sky was so dark the sun was
hid, and the remainder of the crowd hastened back to the city. When the Master
gave up his life shortly after this hour, less than thirty people were present,
only the thirteen Roman soldiers and a group of about fifteen believers. These
believers were all women except two, Jude, Jesus' brother, and John Zebedee,
who returned to the scene just before the Master expired.

Shortly after one o'clock, amidst the increasing darkness of the fierce
sandstorm, Jesus began to fail in human consciousness. His last words of mercy,
forgiveness, and admonition had been spoken. His last wish--concerning the care
of his mother--had been expressed. During this hour of approaching death the
human mind of Jesus resorted to the repetition of many passages in the Hebrew
scriptures, particularly the Psalms. The last conscious thought of the human
Jesus was concerned with the repetition in his mind of a portion of the Book of
Psalms now known as the twentieth, twenty-first, and twenty-second Psalms.
While his lips would often move, he was too weak to utter the words as these
passages, which he so well knew by heart, would pass through his mind. Only a
few times did those standing by catch some utterance, such as, "I know the Lord
will save his anointed," "Your hand shall find out all my enemies," and "My
God, my God, why have you forsaken me?" Jesus did not for one moment entertain
the slightest doubt that he had lived in accordance with the Father's will; and
he never doubted that he was now laying down his life in the flesh in
accordance with his Father's will. He did not feel that the Father had forsaken
him; he was merely reciting in his vanishing consciousness many Scriptures,
among them this twenty-second Psalm, which begins with "My God, my God, why
have you forsaken me?" And this happened to be one of the three passages which
were spoken with sufficient clearness to be heard by those standing by.

The last request which the mortal Jesus made of his fellows was about half past
one o'clock when, a second time, he said, "I thirst," and the same captain of
the guard again moistened his lips with the same sponge wet in the sour wine,
in those days commonly called vinegar.

The sandstorm grew in intensity and the heavens increasingly darkened. Still
the soldiers and the small group of believers stood by. The soldiers crouched
near the cross, huddled together to protect themselves from the cutting sand.
The mother of John and others watched from a distance where they were somewhat
sheltered by an overhanging rock. When the Master finally breathed his

                               top of page - 2011

last, there were present at the foot of his cross John Zebedee, his brother
Jude, his sister Ruth, Mary Magdalene, and Rebecca, onetime of Sepphoris.

It was just before three o'clock when Jesus, with a loud voice, cried out, "It
is finished! Father, into your hands I commend my spirit." And when he had thus
spoken, he bowed his head and gave up the life struggle. When the Roman
centurion saw how Jesus died, he smote his breast and said: "This was indeed a
righteous man; truly he must have been a Son of God." And from that hour he
began to believe in Jesus.

Jesus died royally--as he had lived. He freely admitted his kingship and
remained master of the situation throughout the tragic day. He went willingly
to his ignominious death, after he had provided for the safety of his chosen
apostles. He wisely restrained Peter's trouble-making violence and provided
that John might be near him right up to the end of his mortal existence. He
revealed his true nature to the murderous Sanhedrin and reminded Pilate of the
source of his sovereign authority as a Son of God. He started out to Golgotha
bearing his own crossbeam and finished up his loving bestowal by handing over
his spirit of mortal acquirement to the Paradise Father. After such a life--and
at such a death--the Master could truly say, "It is finished."

Because this was the preparation day for both the Passover and the Sabbath, the
Jews did not want these bodies to be exposed on Golgotha. Therefore they went
before Pilate asking that the legs of these three men be broken, that they be
dispatched, so that they could be taken down from their crosses and cast into
the criminal burial pits before sundown. When Pilate heard this request, he
forthwith sent three soldiers to break the legs and dispatch Jesus and the two
brigands.

When these soldiers arrived at Golgotha, they did accordingly to the two
thieves, but they found Jesus already dead, much to their surprise. However, in
order to make sure of his death, one of the soldiers pierced his left side with
his spear. Though it was common for the victims of crucifixion to linger alive
upon the cross for even two or three days, the overwhelming emotional agony and
the acute spiritual anguish of Jesus brought an end to his mortal life in the
flesh in a little less than five and one-half hours.

6. AFTER THE CRUCIFIXION

In the midst of the darkness of the sandstorm, about half past three o'clock,
David Zebedee sent out the last of the messengers carrying the news of the
Master's death. The last of his runners he dispatched to the home of Martha and
Mary in Bethany, where he supposed the mother of Jesus stopped with the rest of
her family.

After the death of the Master, John sent the women, in charge of Jude, to the
home of Elijah Mark, where they tarried over the Sabbath day. John himself,
being well known by this time to the Roman centurion, remained at Golgotha
until Joseph and Nicodemus arrived on the scene with an order from Pilate
authorizing them to take possession of the body of Jesus.

Thus ended a day of tragedy and sorrow for a vast universe whose myriads of
intelligences had shuddered at the shocking spectacle of the crucifixion of the
human incarnation of their beloved Sovereign; they were stunned by this
exhibition of mortal callousness and human perversity.

                               top of page - 2012

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   Just Before    ³    The Time Of    ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      The...      ³      The...       ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
