                   Urantia Book Paper 189 The Resurrection
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
   To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ... The Resurrection
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          Paper 189 The Resurrection

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

SOON after the burial of Jesus on Friday afternoon, the chief of the archangels
of Nebadon, then present on Urantia, summoned his council of the resurrection
of sleeping will creatures and entered upon the consideration of a possible
technique for the restoration of Jesus. These assembled sons of the local
universe, the creatures of Michael, did this on their own responsibility;
Gabriel had not assembled them. By midnight they had arrived at the conclusion
that the creature could do nothing to facilitate the resurrection of the
Creator. They were disposed to accept the advice of Gabriel, who instructed
them that, since Michael had "laid down his life of his own free will, he also
had power to take it up again in accordance with his own determination."
Shortly after the adjournment of this council of the archangels, the Life
Carriers, and their various associates in the work of creature rehabilitation
and morontia creation, the Personalized Adjuster of Jesus, being in personal
command of the assembled celestial hosts then on Urantia, spoke these words to
the anxious waiting watchers:

"Not one of you can do aught to assist your Creator-father in the return to
life. As a mortal of the realm he has experienced mortal death; as the
Sovereign of a universe he still lives. That which you observe is the mortal
transit of Jesus of Nazareth from life in the flesh to life in the morontia.
The spirit transit of this Jesus was completed at the time I separated myself
from his personality and became your temporary director. Your Creator-father
has elected to pass through the whole of the experience of his mortal
creatures, from birth on the material worlds, on through natural death and the
resurrection of the morontia, into the status of true spirit existence. A
certain phase of this experience you are about to observe, but you may not
participate in it. Those things which you ordinarily do for the creature, you
may not do for the Creator. A Creator Son has within himself the power to
bestow himself in the likeness of any of his created sons; he has within
himself the power to lay down his observable life and to take it up again; and
he has this power because of the direct command of the Paradise Father, and I
know whereof I speak."

When they heard the Personalized Adjuster so speak, they all assumed the
attitude of anxious expectancy, from Gabriel down to the most humble cherubim.
They saw the mortal body of Jesus in the tomb; they detected evidences of the
universe activity of their beloved Sovereign; and not understanding such
phenomena, they waited patiently for developments.

1. THE MORONTIA TRANSIT

At two forty-five Sunday morning, the Paradise incarnation commission,
consisting of seven unidentified Paradise personalities, arrived on the scene
and

                               top of page - 2021

immediately deployed themselves about the tomb. At ten minutes before three,
intense vibrations of commingled material and morontia activities began to
issue from Joseph's new tomb, and at two minutes past three o'clock, this
Sunday morning, April 9, A.D. 30, the resurrected morontia form and personality
of Jesus of Nazareth came forth from the tomb.

After the resurrected Jesus emerged from his burial tomb, the body of flesh in
which he had lived and wrought on earth for almost thirty-six years was still
lying there in the sepulchre niche, undisturbed and wrapped in the linen sheet,
just as it had been laid to rest by Joseph and his associates on Friday
afternoon. Neither was the stone before the entrance of the tomb in any way
disturbed; the seal of Pilate was still unbroken; the soldiers were still on
guard. The temple guards had been on continuous duty; the Roman guard had been
changed at midnight. None of these watchers suspected that the object of their
vigil had risen to a new and higher form of existence, and that the body which
they were guarding was now a discarded outer covering which had no further
connection with the delivered and resurrected morontia personality of Jesus.

Mankind is slow to perceive that, in all that is personal, matter is the
skeleton of morontia, and that both are the reflected shadow of enduring spirit
reality. How long before you will regard time as the moving image of eternity
and space as the fleeting shadow of Paradise realities?

As far as we can judge, no creature of this universe nor any personality from
another universe had anything to do with this morontia resurrection of Jesus of
Nazareth. On Friday he laid down his life as a mortal of the realm; on Sunday
morning he took it up again as a morontia being of the system of Satania in
Norlatiadek. There is much about the resurrection of Jesus which we do not
understand. But we know that it occurred as we have stated and at about the
time indicated. We can also record that all known phenomena associated with
this mortal transit, or morontia resurrection, occurred right there in Joseph's
new tomb, where the mortal material remains of Jesus lay wrapped in burial
cloths.

We know that no creature of the local universe participated in this morontia
awakening. We perceived the seven personalities of Paradise surround the tomb,
but we did not see them do anything in connection with the Master's awakening.
Just as soon as Jesus appeared beside Gabriel, just above the tomb, the seven
personalities from Paradise signalized their intention of immediate departure
for Uversa.

Let us forever clarify the concept of the resurrection of Jesus by making the
following statements:

1. His material or physical body was not a part of the resurrected personality.
When Jesus came forth from the tomb, his body of flesh remained undisturbed in
the sepulchre. He emerged from the burial tomb without moving the stones before
the entrance and without disturbing the seals of Pilate.

2. He did not emerge from the tomb as a spirit nor as Michael of Nebadon; he
did not appear in the form of the Creator Sovereign, such as he had had before
his incarnation in the likeness of mortal flesh on Urantia.

3. He did come forth from this tomb of Joseph in the very likeness of the
morontia personalities of those who, as resurrected morontia ascendant beings,
emerge from the resurrection halls of the first mansion world of this local
system

                               top of page - 2022

of Satania. And the presence of the Michael memorial in the center of the vast
court of the resurrection halls of mansonia number one leads us to conjecture
that the Master's resurrection on Urantia was in some way fostered on this, the
first of the system mansion worlds.

The first act of Jesus on arising from the tomb was to greet Gabriel and
instruct him to continue in executive charge of universe affairs under
Immanuel, and then he directed the chief of the Melchizedeks to convey his
brotherly greetings to Immanuel. He thereupon asked the Most High of Edentia
for the certification of the Ancients of Days as to his mortal transit; and
turning to the assembled morontia groups of the seven mansion worlds, here
gathered together to greet and welcome their Creator as a creature of their
order, Jesus spoke the first words of the postmortal career. Said the morontia
Jesus: "Having finished my life in the flesh, I would tarry here for a short
time in transition form that I may more fully know the life of my ascendant
creatures and further reveal the will of my Father in Paradise."

After Jesus had spoken, he signaled to the Personalized Adjuster, and all
universe intelligences who had been assembled on Urantia to witness the
resurrection were immediately dispatched to their respective universe
assignments.

Jesus now began the contacts of the morontia level, being introduced, as a
creature, to the requirements of the life he had chosen to live for a short
time on Urantia. This initiation into the morontia world required more than an
hour of earth time and was twice interrupted by his desire to communicate with
his former associates in the flesh as they came out from Jerusalem wonderingly
to peer into the empty tomb to discover what they considered evidence of his
resurrection.

Now is the mortal transit of Jesus--the morontia resurrection of the Son of
Man--completed. The transitory experience of the Master as a personality midway
between the material and the spiritual has begun. And he has done all this
through power inherent within himself; no personality has rendered him any
assistance. He now lives as Jesus of morontia, and as he begins this morontia
life, the material body of his flesh lies there undisturbed in the tomb. The
soldiers are still on guard, and the seal of the governor about the rocks has
not yet been broken.

2. THE MATERIAL BODY OF JESUS

At ten minutes past three o'clock, as the resurrected Jesus fraternized with
the assembled morontia personalities from the seven mansion worlds of Satania,
the chief of archangels--the angels of the resurrection--approached Gabriel and
asked for the mortal body of Jesus. Said the chief of the archangels: "We may
not participate in the morontia resurrection of the bestowal experience of
Michael our sovereign, but we would have his mortal remains put in our custody
for immediate dissolution. We do not propose to employ our technique of
dematerialization; we merely wish to invoke the process of accelerated time. It
is enough that we have seen the Sovereign live and die on Urantia; the hosts of
heaven would be spared the memory of enduring the sight of the slow decay of
the human form of the Creator and Upholder of a universe. In the name of the
celestial intelligences of all Nebadon, I ask for a mandate giving me the
custody of the mortal body of Jesus of Nazareth and empowering us to proceed
with its immediate dissolution."

                               top of page - 2023

And when Gabriel had conferred with the senior Most High of Edentia, the
archangel spokesman for the celestial hosts was given permission to make such
disposition of the physical remains of Jesus as he might determine.

After the chief of archangels had been granted this request, he summoned to his
assistance many of his fellows, together with a numerous host of the
representatives of all orders of celestial personalities, and then, with the
aid of the Urantia midwayers, proceeded to take possession of Jesus' physical
body. This body of death was a purely material creation; it was physical and
literal; it could not be removed from the tomb as the morontia form of the
resurrection had been able to escape the sealed sepulchre. By the aid of
certain morontia auxiliary personalities, the morontia form can be made at one
time as of the spirit so that it can become indifferent to ordinary matter,
while at another time it can become discernible and contactable to material
beings, such as the mortals of the realm.

As they made ready to remove the body of Jesus from the tomb preparatory to
according it the dignified and reverent disposal of near-instantaneous
dissolution, it was assigned the secondary Urantia midwayers to roll away the
stones from the entrance of the tomb. The larger of these two stones was a huge
circular affair, much like a millstone, and it moved in a groove chiseled out
of the rock, so that it could be rolled back and forth to open or close the
tomb. When the watching Jewish guards and the Roman soldiers, in the dim light
of the morning, saw this huge stone begin to roll away from the entrance of the
tomb, apparently of its own accord--without any visible means to account for
such motion--they were seized with fear and panic, and they fled in haste from
the scene. The Jews fled to their homes, afterward going back to report these
doings to their captain at the temple. The Romans fled to the fortress of
Antonia and reported what they had seen to the centurion as soon as he arrived
on duty.

The Jewish leaders began the sordid business of supposedly getting rid of Jesus
by offering bribes to the traitorous Judas, and now, when confronted with this
embarrassing situation, instead of thinking of punishing the guards who
deserted their post, they resorted to bribing these guards and the Roman
soldiers. They paid each of these twenty men a sum of money and instructed them
to say to all: "While we slept during the nighttime, his disciples came upon us
and took away the body." And the Jewish leaders made solemn promises to the
soldiers to defend them before Pilate in case it should ever come to the
governor's knowledge that they had accepted a bribe.

The Christian belief in the resurrection of Jesus has been based on the fact of
the "empty tomb." It was indeed a fact that the tomb was empty, but this is not
the truth of the resurrection. The tomb was truly empty when the first
believers arrived, and this fact, associated with that of the undoubted
resurrection of the Master, led to the formulation of a belief which was not
true: the teaching that the material and mortal body of Jesus was raised from
the grave. Truth having to do with spiritual realities and eternal values
cannot always be built up by a combination of apparent facts. Although
individual facts may be materially true, it does not follow that the
association of a group of facts must necessarily lead to truthful spiritual
conclusions.

The tomb of Joseph was empty, not because the body of Jesus had been
rehabilitated or resurrected, but because the celestial hosts had been granted
their request to afford it a special and unique dissolution, a return of the
"dust to

                               top of page - 2024

dust," without the intervention of the delays of time and without the operation
of the ordinary and visible processes of mortal decay and material corruption.

The mortal remains of Jesus underwent the same natural process of elemental
disintegration as characterizes all human bodies on earth except that, in point
of time, this natural mode of dissolution was greatly accelerated, hastened to
that point where it became well-nigh instantaneous.

The true evidences of the resurrection of Michael are spiritual in nature,
albeit this teaching is corroborated by the testimony of many mortals of the
realm who met, recognized, and communed with the resurrected morontia Master.
He became a part of the personal experience of almost one thousand human beings
before he finally took leave of Urantia.

3. THE DISPENSATIONAL RESURRECTION

A little after half past four o'clock this Sunday morning, Gabriel summoned the
archangels to his side and made ready to inaugurate the general resurrection of
the termination of the Adamic dispensation on Urantia. When the vast host of
the seraphim and the cherubim concerned in this great event had been marshaled
in proper formation, the morontia Michael appeared before Gabriel, saying: "As
my Father has life in himself, so has he given it to the Son to have life in
himself. Although I have not yet fully resumed the exercise of universe
jurisdiction, this self-imposed limitation does not in any manner restrict the
bestowal of life upon my sleeping sons; let the roll call of the planetary
resurrection begin."

The circuit of the archangels then operated for the first time from Urantia.
Gabriel and the archangel hosts moved to the place of the spiritual polarity of
the planet; and when Gabriel gave the signal, there flashed to the first of the
system mansion worlds the voice of Gabriel, saying: "By the mandate of Michael,
let the dead of a Urantia dispensation rise!" Then all the survivors of the
human races of Urantia who had fallen asleep since the days of Adam, and who
had not already gone on to judgment, appeared in the resurrection halls of
mansonia in readiness for morontia investiture. And in an instant of time the
seraphim and their associates made ready to depart for the mansion worlds.
Ordinarily these seraphic guardians, onetime assigned to the group custody of
these surviving mortals, would have been present at the moment of their awaking
in the resurrection halls of mansonia, but they were on this world itself at
this time because of the necessity of Gabriel's presence here in connection
with the morontia resurrection of Jesus.

Notwithstanding that countless individuals having personal seraphic guardians
and those achieving the requisite attainment of spiritual personality progress
had gone on to mansonia during the ages subsequent to the times of Adam and
Eve, and though there had been many special and millennial resurrections of
Urantia sons, this was the third of the planetary roll calls, or complete
dispensational resurrections. The first occurred at the time of the arrival of
the Planetary Prince, the second during the time of Adam, and this, the third,
signalized the morontia resurrection, the mortal transit, of Jesus of Nazareth.

When the signal of the planetary resurrection had been received by the chief of
archangels, the Personalized Adjuster of the Son of Man relinquished his
authority over the celestial hosts assembled on Urantia, turning all these sons
of the local universe back to the jurisdiction of their respective commanders.
And

                               top of page - 2025

when he had done this, he departed for Salvington to register with Immanuel the
completion of the mortal transit of Michael. And he was immediately followed by
all the celestial host not required for duty on Urantia. But Gabriel remained
on Urantia with the morontia Jesus.

And this is the recital of the events of the resurrection of Jesus as viewed by
those who saw them as they really occurred, free from the limitations of
partial and restricted human vision.

4. DISCOVERY OF THE EMPTY TOMB

As we approach the time of the resurrection of Jesus on this early Sunday
morning, it should be recalled that the ten apostles were sojourning at the
home of Elijah and Mary Mark, where they were asleep in the upper chamber,
resting on the very couches whereon they reclined during the last supper with
their Master. This Sunday morning they were all there assembled except Thomas.
Thomas was with them for a few minutes late Saturday night when they first got
together, but the sight of the apostles, coupled with the thought of what had
happened to Jesus, was too much for him. He looked his associates over and
immediately left the room, going to the home of Simon in Bethphage, where he
thought to grieve over his troubles in solitude. The apostles all suffered, not
so much from doubt and despair as from fear, grief, and shame.

At the home of Nicodemus there were gathered together, with David Zebedee and
Joseph of Arimathea, some twelve or fifteen of the more prominent of the
Jerusalem disciples of Jesus. At the home of Joseph of Arimathea there were
some fifteen or twenty of the leading women believers. Only these women abode
in Joseph's house, and they had kept close within during the hours of the
Sabbath day and the evening after the Sabbath, so that they were ignorant of
the military guard on watch at the tomb; neither did they know that a second
stone had been rolled in front of the tomb, and that both of these stones had
been placed under the seal of Pilate.

A little before three o'clock this Sunday morning, when the first signs of day
began to appear in the east, five of the women started out for the tomb of
Jesus. They had prepared an abundance of special embalming lotions, and they
carried many linen bandages with them. It was their purpose more thoroughly to
give the body of Jesus its death anointing and more carefully to wrap it up
with the new bandages.

The women who went on this mission of anointing Jesus' body were: Mary
Magdalene, Mary the mother of the Alpheus twins, Salome the mother of the
Zebedee brothers, Joanna the wife of Chuza, and Susanna the daughter of Ezra of
Alexandria.

It was about half past three o'clock when the five women, laden with their
ointments, arrived before the empty tomb. As they passed out of the Damascus
gate, they encountered a number of soldiers fleeing into the city more or less
panic-stricken, and this caused them to pause for a few minutes; but when
nothing more developed, they resumed their journey.

They were greatly surprised to see the stone rolled away from the entrance to
the tomb, inasmuch as they had said among themselves on the way out, "Who will
help us roll away the stone?" They set down their burdens and began to look
upon one another in fear and with great amazement. While they stood there,

                               top of page - 2026

atremble with fear, Mary Magdalene ventured around the smaller stone and dared
to enter the open sepulchre. This tomb of Joseph was in his garden on the
hillside on the eastern side of the road, and it also faced toward the east. By
this hour there was just enough of the dawn of a new day to enable Mary to look
back to the place where the Master's body had lain and to discern that it was
gone. In the recess of stone where they had laid Jesus, Mary saw only the
folded napkin where his head had rested and the bandages wherewith he had been
wrapped lying intact and as they had rested on the stone before the celestial
hosts removed the body. The covering sheet lay at the foot of the burial niche.

After Mary had tarried in the doorway of the tomb for a few moments (she did
not see distinctly when she first entered the tomb), she saw that Jesus' body
was gone and in its place only these grave cloths, and she uttered a cry of
alarm and anguish. All the women were exceedingly nervous; they had been on
edge ever since meeting the panicky soldiers at the city gate, and when Mary
uttered this scream of anguish, they were terror-stricken and fled in great
haste. And they did not stop until they had run all the way to the Damascus
gate. By this time Joanna was conscience-stricken that they had deserted Mary;
she rallied her companions, and they started back for the tomb.

As they drew near the sepulchre, the frightened Magdalene, who was even more
terrorized when she failed to find her sisters waiting when she came out of the
tomb, now rushed up to them, excitedly exclaiming: "He is not there--they have
taken him away!" And she led them back to the tomb, and they all entered and
saw that it was empty.

All five of the women then sat down on the stone near the entrance and talked
over the situation. It had not yet occurred to them that Jesus had been
resurrected. They had been by themselves over the Sabbath, and they conjectured
that the body had been moved to another resting place. But when they pondered
such a solution of their dilemma, they were at a loss to account for the
orderly arrangement of the grave cloths; how could the body have been removed
since the very bandages in which it was wrapped were left in position and
apparently intact on the burial shelf?

As these women sat there in the early hours of the dawn of this new day, they
looked to one side and observed a silent and motionless stranger. For a moment
they were again frightened, but Mary Magdalene, rushing toward him and
addressing him as if she thought he might be the caretaker of the garden, said,
"Where have you taken the Master? Where have they laid him? Tell us that we may
go and get him." When the stranger did not answer Mary, she began to weep. Then
spoke Jesus to them, saying, "Whom do you seek?" Mary said: "We seek for Jesus
who was laid to rest in Joseph's tomb, but he is gone. Do you know where they
have taken him?" Then said Jesus: "Did not this Jesus tell you, even in
Galilee, that he would die, but that he would rise again?" These words startled
the women, but the Master was so changed that they did not yet recognize him
with his back turned to the dim light. And as they pondered his words, he
addressed the Magdalene with a familiar voice, saying, "Mary." And when she
heard that word of well-known sympathy and affectionate greeting, she knew it
was the voice of the Master, and she rushed to kneel at his feet while she
exclaimed, "My Lord, and my Master!" And all of the other women recognized that
it was the Master who stood before them in glorified form, and they quickly
knelt before him.

                               top of page - 2027

These human eyes were enabled to see the morontia form of Jesus because of the
special ministry of the transformers and the midwayers in association with
certain of the morontia personalities then accompanying Jesus.

As Mary sought to embrace his feet, Jesus said: "Touch me not, Mary, for I am
not as you knew me in the flesh. In this form will I tarry with you for a
season before I ascend to the Father. But go, all of you, now and tell my
apostles--and Peter--that I have risen, and that you have talked with me."

After these women had recovered from the shock of their amazement, they
hastened back to the city and to the home of Elijah Mark, where they related to
the ten apostles all that had happened to them; but the apostles were not
inclined to believe them. They thought at first that the women had seen a
vision, but when Mary Magdalene repeated the words which Jesus had spoken to
them, and when Peter heard his name, he rushed out of the upper chamber,
followed closely by John, in great haste to reach the tomb and see these things
for himself.

The women repeated the story of talking with Jesus to the other apostles, but
they would not believe; and they would not go to find out for themselves as had
Peter and John.

5. PETER AND JOHN AT THE TOMB

As the two apostles raced for Golgotha and the tomb of Joseph, Peter's thoughts
alternated between fear and hope; he feared to meet the Master, but his hope
was aroused by the story that Jesus had sent special word to him. He was half
persuaded that Jesus was really alive; he recalled the promise to rise on the
third day. Strange to relate, this promise had not occurred to him since the
crucifixion until this moment as he hurried north through Jerusalem. As John
hastened out of the city, a strange ecstasy of joy and hope welled up in his
soul. He was half convinced that the women really had seen the risen Master.

John, being younger than Peter, outran him and arrived first at the tomb. John
tarried at the door, viewing the tomb, and it was just as Mary had described
it. Very soon Simon Peter rushed up and, entering, saw the same empty tomb with
the grave cloths so peculiarly arranged. And when Peter had come out, John also
went in and saw it all for himself, and then they sat down on the stone to
ponder the meaning of what they had seen and heard. And while they sat there,
they turned over in their minds all that had been told them about Jesus, but
they could not clearly perceive what had happened.

Peter at first suggested that the grave had been rifled, that enemies had
stolen the body, perhaps bribed the guards. But John reasoned that the grave
would hardly have been left so orderly if the body had been stolen, and he also
raised the question as to how the bandages happened to be left behind, and so
apparently intact. And again they both went back into the tomb more closely to
examine the grave cloths. As they came out of the tomb the second time, they
found Mary Magdalene returned and weeping before the entrance. Mary had gone to
the apostles believing that Jesus had risen from the grave, but when they all
refused to believe her report, she became downcast and despairing. She longed
to go back near the tomb, where she thought she had heard the familiar voice of
Jesus.

As Mary lingered after Peter and John had gone, the Master again appeared to
her, saying: "Be not doubting; have the courage to believe what you have seen
and heard. Go back to my apostles and again tell them that I have risen,

                               top of page - 2028

that I will appear to them, and that presently I will go before them into
Galilee as I promised."

Mary hurried back to the Mark home and told the apostles she had again talked
with Jesus, but they would not believe her. But when Peter and John returned,
they ceased to ridicule and became filled with fear and apprehension.

                               top of page - 2029

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³   The Time Of    ³     Morontia      ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³      The...      ³     Appear...     ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
