            Urantia Book Paper 190 Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
 To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ... Morontia Appearances
                                    Of Jesus
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Paper 190 Morontia Appearances Of Jesus

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

THE resurrected Jesus now prepares to spend a short period on Urantia for the
purpose of experiencing the ascending morontia career of a mortal of the
realms. Although this time of the morontia life is to be spent on the world of
his mortal incarnation, it will, however, be in all respects the counterpart of
the experience of Satania mortals who pass through the progressive morontia
life of the seven mansion worlds of Jerusem.

All this power which is inherent in Jesus--the endowment of life--and which
enabled him to rise from the dead, is the very gift of eternal life which he
bestows upon kingdom believers, and which even now makes certain their
resurrection from the bonds of natural death.

The mortals of the realms will arise in the morning of the resurrection with
the same type of transition or morontia body that Jesus had when he arose from
the tomb on this Sunday morning. These bodies do not have circulating blood,
and such beings do not partake of ordinary material food; nevertheless, these
morontia forms are real. When the various believers saw Jesus after his
resurrection, they really saw him; they were not the self-deceived victims of
visions or hallucinations.

Abiding faith in the resurrection of Jesus was the cardinal feature of the
faith of all branches of the early gospel teaching. In Jerusalem, Alexandria,
Antioch, and Philadelphia all the gospel teachers united in this implicit faith
in the Master's resurrection.

In viewing the prominent part which Mary Magdalene took in proclaiming the
Master's resurrection, it should be recorded that Mary was the chief spokesman
for the women's corps, as was Peter for the apostles. Mary was not chief of the
women workers, but she was their chief teacher and public spokesman. Mary had
become a woman of great circumspection, so that her boldness in speaking to a
man whom she considered to be the caretaker of Joseph's garden only indicates
how horrified she was to find the tomb empty. It was the depth and agony of her
love, the fullness of her devotion, that caused her to forget, for a moment,
the conventional restraints of a Jewish woman's approach to a strange man.

1. HERALDS OF THE RESURRECTION

The apostles did not want Jesus to leave them; therefore had they slighted all
his statements about dying, along with his promises to rise again. They were
not expecting the resurrection as it came, and they refused to believe until
they were confronted with the compulsion of unimpeachable evidence and the
absolute proof of their own experiences.

                               top of page - 2030

When the apostles refused to believe the report of the five women who
represented that they had seen Jesus and talked with him, Mary Magdalene
returned to the tomb, and the others went back to Joseph's house, where they
related their experiences to his daughter and the other women. And the women
believed their report. Shortly after six o'clock the daughter of Joseph of
Arimathea and the four women who had seen Jesus went over to the home of
Nicodemus, where they related all these happenings to Joseph, Nicodemus, David
Zebedee, and the other men there assembled. Nicodemus and the others doubted
their story, doubted that Jesus had risen from the dead; they conjectured that
the Jews had removed the body. Joseph and David were disposed to believe the
report, so much so that they hurried out to inspect the tomb, and they found
everything just as the women had described. And they were the last to so view
the sepulchre, for the high priest sent the captain of the temple guards to the
tomb at half past seven o'clock to remove the grave cloths. The captain wrapped
them all up in the linen sheet and threw them over a near-by cliff.

From the tomb David and Joseph went immediately to the home of Elijah Mark,
where they held a conference with the ten apostles in the upper chamber. Only
John Zebedee was disposed to believe, even faintly, that Jesus had risen from
the dead. Peter had believed at first but, when he failed to find the Master,
fell into grave doubting. They were all disposed to believe that the Jews had
removed the body. David would not argue with them, but when he left, he said:
"You are the apostles, and you ought to understand these things. I will not
contend with you; nevertheless, I now go back to the home of Nicodemus, where I
have appointed with the messengers to assemble this morning, and when they have
gathered together, I will send them forth on their last mission, as heralds of
the Master's resurrection. I heard the Master say that, after he should die, he
would rise on the third day, and I believe him." And thus speaking to the
dejected and forlorn ambassadors of the kingdom, this self-appointed chief of
communication and intelligence took leave of the apostles. On his way from the
upper chamber he dropped the bag of Judas, containing all the apostolic funds,
in the lap of Matthew Levi.

It was about half past nine o'clock when the last of David's twenty-six
messengers arrived at the home of Nicodemus. David promptly assembled them in
the spacious courtyard and addressed them:

"Men and brethren, all this time you have served me in accordance with your
oath to me and to one another, and I call you to witness that I have never yet
sent out false information at your hands. I am about to send you on your last
mission as volunteer messengers of the kingdom, and in so doing I release you
from your oaths and thereby disband the messenger corps. Men, I declare to you
that we have finished our work. No more does the Master have need of mortal
messengers; he has risen from the dead. He told us before they arrested him
that he would die and rise again on the third day. I have seen the tomb--it is
empty. I have talked with Mary Magdalene and four other women, who have talked
with Jesus. I now disband you, bid you farewell, and send you on your
respective assignments, and the message which you shall bear to the believers
is: `Jesus has risen from the dead; the tomb is empty.'"

The majority of those present endeavored to persuade David not to do this. But
they could not influence him. They then sought to dissuade the messengers,

                               top of page - 2031

but they would not heed the words of doubt. And so, shortly before ten o'clock
this Sunday morning, these twenty-six runners went forth as the first heralds
of the mighty truth-fact of the resurrected Jesus. And they started out on this
mission as they had on so many others, in fulfillment of their oath to David
Zebedee and to one another. These men had great confidence in David. They
departed on this assignment without even tarrying to talk with those who had
seen Jesus; they took David at his word. The majority of them believed what
David had told them, and even those who somewhat doubted, carried the message
just as certainly and just as swiftly.

The apostles, the spiritual corps of the kingdom, are this day assembled in the
upper chamber, where they manifest fear and express doubts, while these laymen,
representing the first attempt at the socialization of the Master's gospel of
the brotherhood of man, under the orders of their fearless and efficient
leader, go forth to proclaim the risen Savior of a world and a universe. And
they engage in this eventful service ere his chosen representatives are willing
to believe his word or to accept the evidence of eyewitnesses.

These twenty-six were dispatched to the home of Lazarus in Bethany and to all
of the believer centers, from Beersheba in the south to Damascus and Sidon in
the north; and from Philadelphia in the east to Alexandria in the west.

When David had taken leave of his brethren, he went over to the home of Joseph
for his mother, and they then went out to Bethany to join the waiting family of
Jesus. David abode there in Bethany with Martha and Mary until after they had
disposed of their earthly possessions, and he accompanied them on their journey
to join their brother, Lazarus, at Philadelphia.

In about one week from this time John Zebedee took Mary the mother of Jesus to
his home in Bethsaida. James, Jesus' eldest brother, remained with his family
in Jerusalem. Ruth remained at Bethany with Lazarus's sisters. The rest of
Jesus' family returned to Galilee. David Zebedee left Bethany with Martha and
Mary, for Philadelphia, early in June, the day after his marriage to Ruth,
Jesus' youngest sister.

2. JESUS' APPEARANCE AT BETHANY

From the time of the morontia resurrection until the hour of his spirit
ascension on high, Jesus made nineteen separate appearances in visible form to
his believers on earth. He did not appear to his enemies nor to those who could
not make spiritual use of his manifestation in visible form. His first
appearance was to the five women at the tomb; his second, to Mary Magdalene,
also at the tomb.

The third appearance occurred about noon of this Sunday at Bethany. Shortly
after noontide, Jesus' oldest brother, James, was standing in the garden of
Lazarus before the empty tomb of the resurrected brother of Martha and Mary,
turning over in his mind the news brought to them about one hour previously by
the messenger of David. James had always inclined to believe in his eldest
brother's mission on earth, but he had long since lost contact with Jesus' work
and had drifted into grave doubting regarding the later claims of the apostles
that Jesus was the Messiah. The whole family was startled and well-nigh
confounded by the news brought by the messenger. Even as James stood before
Lazarus's empty tomb, Mary Magdalene arrived on the scene and was excitedly

                               top of page - 2032

relating to the family her experiences of the early morning hours at the tomb
of Joseph. Before she had finished, David Zebedee and his mother arrived. Ruth,
of course, believed the report, and so did Jude after he had talked with David
and Salome.

In the meantime, as they looked for James and before they found him, while he
stood there in the garden near the tomb, he became aware of a near-by presence,
as if someone had touched him on the shoulder; and when he turned to look, he
beheld the gradual appearance of a strange form by his side. He was too much
amazed to speak and too frightened to flee. And then the strange form spoke,
saying: "James, I come to call you to the service of the kingdom. Join earnest
hands with your brethren and follow after me." When James heard his name
spoken, he knew that it was his eldest brother, Jesus, who had addressed him.
They all had more or less difficulty in recognizing the morontia form of the
Master, but few of them had any trouble recognizing his voice or otherwise
identifying his charming personality when he once began to communicate with
them.

When James perceived that Jesus was addressing him, he started to fall to his
knees, exclaiming, "My father and my brother," but Jesus bade him stand while
he spoke with him. And they walked through the garden and talked for almost
three minutes; talked over experiences of former days and forecast the events
of the near future. As they neared the house, Jesus said, "Farewell, James,
until I greet you all together."

James rushed into the house, even while they looked for him at Bethphage,
exclaiming: "I have just seen Jesus and talked with him, visited with him. He
is not dead; he has risen! He vanished before me, saying, `Farewell until I
greet you all together.'" He had scarcely finished speaking when Jude returned,
and he retold the experience of meeting Jesus in the garden for the benefit of
Jude. And they all began to believe in the resurrection of Jesus. James now
announced that he would not return to Galilee, and David exclaimed: "He is seen
not only by excited women; even stronghearted men have begun to see him. I
expect to see him myself."

And David did not long wait, for the fourth appearance of Jesus to mortal
recognition occurred shortly before two o'clock in this very home of Martha and
Mary, when he appeared visibly before his earthly family and their friends,
twenty in all. The Master appeared in the open back door, saying: "Peace be
upon you. Greetings to those once near me in the flesh and fellowship for my
brothers and sisters in the kingdom of heaven. How could you doubt? Why have
you lingered so long before choosing to follow the light of truth with a whole
heart? Come, therefore, all of you into the fellowship of the Spirit of Truth
in the Father's kingdom." As they began to recover from the first shock of
their amazement and to move toward him as if to embrace him, he vanished from
their sight.

They all wanted to rush off to the city to tell the doubting apostles about
what had happened, but James restrained them. Mary Magdalene, only, was
permitted to return to Joseph's house. James forbade their publishing abroad
the fact of this morontia visit because of certain things which Jesus had said
to him as they conversed in the garden. But James never revealed more of his
visit with the risen Master on this day at the Lazarus home in Bethany.

                               top of page - 2033

3. AT THE HOME OF JOSEPH

The fifth morontia manifestation of Jesus to the recognition of mortal eyes
occurred in the presence of some twenty-five women believers assembled at the
home of Joseph of Arimathea, at about fifteen minutes past four o'clock on this
same Sunday afternoon. Mary Magdalene had returned to Joseph's house just a few
minutes before this appearance. James, Jesus' brother, had requested that
nothing be said to the apostles concerning the Master's appearance at Bethany.
He had not asked Mary to refrain from reporting the occurrence to her sister
believers. Accordingly, after Mary had pledged all the women to secrecy, she
proceeded to relate what had so recently happened while she was with Jesus'
family at Bethany. And she was in the very midst of this thrilling recital when
a sudden and solemn hush fell over them; they beheld in their very midst the
fully visible form of the risen Jesus. He greeted them, saying: "Peace be upon
you. In the fellowship of the kingdom there shall be neither Jew nor gentile,
rich nor poor, free nor bond, man nor woman. You also are called to publish the
good news of the liberty of mankind through the gospel of sonship with God in
the kingdom of heaven. Go to all the world proclaiming this gospel and
confirming believers in the faith thereof. And while you do this, forget not to
minister to the sick and strengthen those who are fainthearted and fear-ridden.
And I will be with you always, even to the ends of the earth." And when he had
thus spoken, he vanished from their sight, while the women fell on their faces
and worshiped in silence.

Of the five morontia appearances of Jesus occurring up to this time, Mary
Magdalene had witnessed four.

As a result of sending out the messengers during the midforenoon and from the
unconscious leakage of intimations concerning this appearance of Jesus at
Joseph's house, word began to come to the rulers of the Jews during the early
evening that it was being reported about the city that Jesus had risen, and
that many persons were claiming to have seen him. The Sanhedrists were
thoroughly aroused by these rumors. After a hasty consultation with Annas,
Caiaphas called a meeting of the Sanhedrin to convene at eight o'clock that
evening. It was at this meeting that action was taken to throw out of the
synagogues any person who made mention of Jesus' resurrection. It was even
suggested that any one claiming to have seen him should be put to death; this
proposal, however, did not come to a vote since the meeting broke up in
confusion bordering on actual panic. They had dared to think they were through
with Jesus. They were about to discover that their real trouble with the man of
Nazareth had just begun.

4. APPEARANCE TO THE GREEKS

About half past four o'clock, at the home of one Flavius, the Master made his
sixth morontia appearance to some forty Greek believers there assembled. While
they were engaged in discussing the reports of the Master's resurrection, he
manifested himself in their midst, notwithstanding that the doors were securely
fastened, and speaking to them, said: "Peace be upon you. While the Son of Man
appeared on earth among the Jews, he came to minister to all men.

                               top of page - 2034

In the kingdom of my Father there shall be neither Jew nor gentile; you will
all be brethren--the sons of God. Go you, therefore, to all the world,
proclaiming this gospel of salvation as you have received it from the
ambassadors of the kingdom, and I will fellowship you in the brotherhood of the
Father's sons of faith and truth." And when he had thus charged them, he took
leave, and they saw him no more. They remained within the house all evening;
they were too much overcome with awe and fear to venture forth. Neither did any
of these Greeks sleep that night; they stayed awake discussing these things and
hoping that the Master might again visit them. Among this group were many of
the Greeks who were at Gethsemane when the soldiers arrested Jesus and Judas
betrayed him with a kiss.

Rumors of Jesus' resurrection and reports concerning the many appearances to
his followers are spreading rapidly, and the whole city is being wrought up to
a high pitch of excitement. Already the Master has appeared to his family, to
the women, and to the Greeks, and presently he manifests himself in the midst
of the apostles. The Sanhedrin is soon to begin the consideration of these new
problems which have been so suddenly thrust upon the Jewish rulers. Jesus
thinks much about his apostles but desires that they be left alone for a few
more hours of solemn reflection and thoughtful consideration before he visits
them.

5. THE WALK WITH TWO BROTHERS

At Emmaus, about seven miles west of Jerusalem, there lived two brothers,
shepherds, who had spent the Passover week in Jerusalem attending upon the
sacrifices, ceremonials, and feasts. Cleopas, the elder, was a partial believer
in Jesus; at least he had been cast out of the synagogue. His brother, Jacob,
was not a believer, although he was much intrigued by what he had heard about
the Master's teachings and works.

On this Sunday afternoon, about three miles out of Jerusalem and a few minutes
before five o'clock, as these two brothers trudged along the road to Emmaus,
they talked in great earnestness about Jesus, his teachings, work, and more
especially concerning the rumors that his tomb was empty, and that certain of
the women had talked with him. Cleopas was half a mind to believe these
reports, but Jacob was insistent that the whole affair was probably a fraud.
While they thus argued and debated as they made their way toward home, the
morontia manifestation of Jesus, his seventh appearance, came alongside them as
they journeyed on. Cleopas had often heard Jesus teach and had eaten with him
at the homes of Jerusalem believers on several occasions. But he did not
recognize the Master even when he spoke freely with them.

After walking a short way with them, Jesus said: "What were the words you
exchanged so earnestly as I came upon you?" And when Jesus had spoken, they
stood still and viewed him with sad surprise. Said Cleopas: "Can it be that you
sojourn in Jerusalem and know not the things which have recently happened?"
Then asked the Master, "What things?" Cleopas replied: "If you do not know
about these matters, you are the only one in Jerusalem who has not heard these
rumors concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet mighty in word and in
deed before God and all the people. The chief priests and our rulers delivered
him up to the Romans and demanded that they crucify him. Now many of us had
hoped that it was he who would deliver Israel from the

                               top of page - 2035

yoke of the gentiles. But that is not all. It is now the third day since he was
crucified, and certain women have this day amazed us by declaring that very
early this morning they went to his tomb and found it empty. And these same
women insist that they talked with this man; they maintain that he has risen
from the dead. And when the women reported this to the men, two of his apostles
ran to the tomb and likewise found it empty"--and here Jacob interrupted his
brother to say, "but they did not see Jesus."

As they walked along, Jesus said to them: "How slow you are to comprehend the
truth! When you tell me that it is about the teachings and work of this man
that you have your discussions, then may I enlighten you since I am more than
familiar with these teachings. Do you not remember that this Jesus always
taught that his kingdom was not of this world, and that all men, being the sons
of God, should find liberty and freedom in the spiritual joy of the fellowship
of the brotherhood of loving service in this new kingdom of the truth of the
heavenly Father's love? Do you not recall how this Son of Man proclaimed the
salvation of God for all men, ministering to the sick and afflicted and setting
free those who were bound by fear and enslaved by evil? Do you not know that
this man of Nazareth told his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem, be
delivered up to his enemies, who would put him to death, and that he would
arise on the third day? Have you not been told all this? And have you never
read in the Scriptures concerning this day of salvation for Jew and gentile,
where it says that in him shall all the families of the earth be blessed; that
he will hear the cry of the needy and save the souls of the poor who seek him;
that all nations shall call him blessed? That such a Deliverer shall be as the
shadow of a great rock in a weary land. That he will feed the flock like a true
shepherd, gathering the lambs in his arms and tenderly carrying them in his
bosom. That he will open the eyes of the spiritually blind and bring the
prisoners of despair out into full liberty and light; that all who sit in
darkness shall see the great light of eternal salvation. That he will bind up
the brokenhearted, proclaim liberty to the captives of sin, and open up the
prison to those who are enslaved by fear and bound by evil. That he will
comfort those who mourn and bestow upon them the joy of salvation in the place
of sorrow and heaviness. That he shall be the desire of all nations and the
everlasting joy of those who seek righteousness. That this Son of truth and
righteousness shall rise upon the world with healing light and saving power;
even that he will save his people from their sins; that he will really seek and
save those who are lost. That he will not destroy the weak but minister
salvation to all who hunger and thirst for righteousness. That those who
believe in him shall have eternal life. That he will pour out his spirit upon
all flesh, and that this Spirit of Truth shall be in each believer a well of
water, springing up into everlasting life. Did you not understand how great was
the gospel of the kingdom which this man delivered to you? Do you not perceive
how great a salvation has come upon you?"

By this time they had come near to the village where these brothers dwelt. Not
a word had these two men spoken since Jesus began to teach them as they walked
along the way. Soon they drew up in front of their humble dwelling place, and
Jesus was about to take leave of them, going on down the road, but they
constrained him to come in and abide with them. They insisted that it was near
nightfall, and that he tarry with them. Finally Jesus consented, and very soon
after they went into the house, they sat down to eat. They gave him the bread
to bless, and as he began to break and hand to them, their eyes were opened,
and

                               top of page - 2036

Cleopas recognized that their guest was the Master himself. And when he said,
"It is the Master--," the morontia Jesus vanished from their sight.

And then they said, the one to the other, "No wonder our hearts burned within
us as he spoke to us while we walked along the road! and while he opened up to
our understanding the teachings of the Scriptures!"

They would not stop to eat. They had seen the morontia Master, and they rushed
from the house, hastening back to Jerusalem to spread the good news of the
risen Savior.

About nine o'clock that evening and just before the Master appeared to the ten,
these two excited brothers broke in upon the apostles in the upper chamber,
declaring that they had seen Jesus and talked with him. And they told all that
Jesus had said to them and how they had not discerned who he was until the time
of the breaking of the bread.

                               top of page - 2037

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³       The        ³  Appearances To   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³  Resurrectio...  ³        ...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
