      Urantia Book Paper 191 Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ... Appearances To The
                           Apostles And Other Leaders
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            Paper 191 Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

RESURRECTION Sunday was a terrible day in the lives of the apostles; ten of
them spent the larger part of the day in the upper chamber behind barred doors.
They might have fled from Jerusalem, but they were afraid of being arrested by
the agents of the Sanhedrin if they were found abroad. Thomas was brooding over
his troubles alone at Bethphage. He would have fared better had he remained
with his fellow apostles, and he would have aided them to direct their
discussions along more helpful lines.

All day long John upheld the idea that Jesus had risen from the dead. He
recounted no less than five different times when the Master had affirmed he
would rise again and at least three times when he alluded to the third day.
John's attitude had considerable influence on them, especially on his brother
James and on Nathaniel. John would have influenced them more if he had not been
the youngest member of the group.

Their isolation had much to do with their troubles. John Mark kept them in
touch with developments about the temple and informed them as to the many
rumors gaining headway in the city, but it did not occur to him to gather up
news from the different groups of believers to whom Jesus had already appeared.
That was the kind of service which had heretofore been rendered by the
messengers of David, but they were all absent on their last assignment as
heralds of the resurrection to those groups of believers who dwelt remote from
Jerusalem. For the first time in all these years the apostles realized how much
they had been dependent on David's messengers for their daily information
regarding the affairs of the kingdom.

All this day Peter characteristically vacillated emotionally between faith and
doubt concerning the Master's resurrection. Peter could not get away from the
sight of the grave cloths resting there in the tomb as if the body of Jesus had
just evaporated from within. "But," reasoned Peter, "if he has risen and can
show himself to the women, why does he not show himself to us, his apostles?"
Peter would grow sorrowful when he thought that maybe Jesus did not come to
them on account of his presence among the apostles, because he had denied him
that night in Annas's courtyard. And then would he cheer himself with the word
brought by the women, "Go tell my apostles--and Peter." But to derive
encouragement from this message implied that he must believe that the women had
really seen and heard the risen Master. Thus Peter alternated between faith and
doubt throughout the whole day, until a little after eight o'clock, when he
ventured out into the courtyard. Peter thought to remove himself from among the
apostles so that he might not prevent Jesus' coming to them because of his
denial of the Master.

James Zebedee at first advocated that they all go to the tomb; he was strongly
in favor of doing something to get to the bottom of the mystery. It was
Nathaniel

                               top of page - 2038

who prevented them from going out in public in response to James's urging, and
he did this by reminding them of Jesus' warning against unduly jeopardizing
their lives at this time. By noontime James had settled down with the others to
watchful waiting. He said little; he was tremendously disappointed because
Jesus did not appear to them, and he did not know of the Master's many
appearances to other groups and individuals.

Andrew did much listening this day. He was exceedingly perplexed by the
situation and had more than his share of doubts, but he at least enjoyed a
certain sense of freedom from responsibility for the guidance of his fellow
apostles. He was indeed grateful that the Master had released him from the
burdens of leadership before they fell upon these distracting times.

More than once during the long and weary hours of this tragic day, the only
sustaining influence of the group was the frequent contribution of Nathaniel's
characteristic philosophic counsel. He was really the controlling influence
among the ten throughout the entire day. Never once did he express himself
concerning either belief or disbelief in the Master's resurrection. But as the
day wore on, he became increasingly inclined toward believing that Jesus had
fulfilled his promise to rise again.

Simon Zelotes was too much crushed to participate in the discussions. Most of
the time he reclined on a couch in a corner of the room with his face to the
wall; he did not speak half a dozen times throughout the whole day. His concept
of the kingdom had crashed, and he could not discern that the Master's
resurrection could materially change the situation. His disappointment was very
personal and altogether too keen to be recovered from on short notice, even in
the face of such a stupendous fact as the resurrection.

Strange to record, the usually inexpressive Philip did much talking throughout
the afternoon of this day. During the forenoon he had little to say, but all
afternoon he asked questions of the other apostles. Peter was often annoyed by
Philip's questions, but the others took his inquiries good-naturedly. Philip
was particularly desirous of knowing, provided Jesus had really risen from the
grave, whether his body would bear the physical marks of the crucifixion.

Matthew was highly confused; he listened to the discussions of his fellows but
spent most of the time turning over in his mind the problem of their future
finances. Regardless of Jesus' supposed resurrection, Judas was gone, David had
unceremoniously turned the funds over to him, and they were without an
authoritative leader. Before Matthew got around to giving serious consideration
to their arguments about the resurrection, he had already seen the Master face
to face.

The Alpheus twins took little part in these serious discussions; they were
fairly busy with their customary ministrations. One of them expressed the
attitude of both when he said, in reply to a question asked by Philip: "We do
not understand about the resurrection, but our mother says she talked with the
Master, and we believe her."

Thomas was in the midst of one of his typical spells of despairing depression.
He slept a portion of the day and walked over the hills the rest of the time.
He felt the urge to rejoin his fellow apostles, but the desire to be by himself
was the stronger.

The Master put off the first morontia appearance to the apostles for a number
of reasons. First, he wanted them to have time, after they heard of his
resurrection, to think well over what he had told them about his death and

                               top of page - 2039

resurrection when he was still with them in the flesh. The Master wanted Peter
to wrestle through with some of his peculiar difficulties before he manifested
himself to them all. In the second place, he desired that Thomas should be with
them at the time of his first appearance. John Mark located Thomas at the home
of Simon in Bethphage early this Sunday morning, bringing word to that effect
to the apostles about eleven o'clock. Any time during this day Thomas would
have gone back to them if Nathaniel or any two of the other apostles had gone
for him. He really wanted to return, but having left as he did the evening
before, he was too proud to go back of his own accord so soon. By the next day
he was so depressed that it required almost a week for him to make up his mind
to return. The apostles waited for him, and he waited for his brethren to seek
him out and ask him to come back to them. Thomas thus remained away from his
associates until the next Saturday evening, when, after darkness had come on,
Peter and John went over to Bethphage and brought him back with them. And this
is also the reason why they did not go at once to Galilee after Jesus first
appeared to them; they would not go without Thomas.

1. THE APPEARANCE TO PETER

It was near half past eight o'clock this Sunday evening when Jesus appeared to
Simon Peter in the garden of the Mark home. This was his eighth morontia
manifestation. Peter had lived under a heavy burden of doubt and guilt ever
since his denial of the Master. All day Saturday and this Sunday he had fought
the fear that, perhaps, he was no longer an apostle. He had shuddered at the
fate of Judas and even thought that he, too, had betrayed his Master. All this
afternoon he thought that it might be his presence with the apostles that
prevented Jesus' appearing to them, provided, of course, he had really risen
from the dead. And it was to Peter, in such a frame of mind and in such a state
of soul, that Jesus appeared as the dejected apostle strolled among the flowers
and shrubs.

When Peter thought of the loving look of the Master as he passed by on Annas's
porch, and as he turned over in his mind that wonderful message brought him
early that morning by the women who came from the empty tomb, "Go tell my
apostles--and Peter"--as he contemplated these tokens of mercy, his faith began
to surmount his doubts, and he stood still, clenching his fists, while he spoke
aloud: "I believe he has risen from the dead; I will go and tell my brethren."
And as he said this, there suddenly appeared in front of him the form of a man,
who spoke to him in familiar tones, saying: "Peter, the enemy desired to have
you, but I would not give you up. I knew it was not from the heart that you
disowned me; therefore I forgave you even before you asked; but now must you
cease to think about yourself and the troubles of the hour while you prepare to
carry the good news of the gospel to those who sit in darkness. No longer
should you be concerned with what you may obtain from the kingdom but rather be
exercised about what you can give to those who live in dire spiritual poverty.
Gird yourself, Simon, for the battle of a new day, the struggle with spiritual
darkness and the evil doubtings of the natural minds of men."

Peter and the morontia Jesus walked through the garden and talked of things
past, present, and future for almost five minutes. Then the Master vanished
from his gaze, saying, "Farewell, Peter, until I see you with your brethren."

For a moment, Peter was overcome by the realization that he had talked with the
risen Master, and that he could be sure he was still an ambassador of

                               top of page - 2040

the kingdom. He had just heard the glorified Master exhort him to go on
preaching the gospel. And with all this welling up within his heart, he rushed
to the upper chamber and into the presence of his fellow apostles, exclaiming
in breathless excitement: "I have seen the Master; he was in the garden. I
talked with him, and he has forgiven me."

Peter's declaration that he had seen Jesus in the garden made a profound
impression upon his fellow apostles, and they were about ready to surrender
their doubts when Andrew got up and warned them not to be too much influenced
by his brother's report. Andrew intimated that Peter had seen things which were
not real before. Although Andrew did not directly allude to the vision of the
night on the Sea of Galilee wherein Peter claimed to have seen the Master
coming to them walking on the water, he said enough to betray to all present
that he had this incident in mind. Simon Peter was very much hurt by his
brother's insinuations and immediately lapsed into crestfallen silence. The
twins felt very sorry for Peter, and they both went over to express their
sympathy and to say that they believed him and to reassert that their own
mother had also seen the Master.

2. FIRST APPEARANCE TO THE APOSTLES

Shortly after nine o'clock that evening, after the departure of Cleopas and
Jacob, while the Alpheus twins comforted Peter, and while Nathaniel
remonstrated with Andrew, and as the ten apostles were there assembled in the
upper chamber with all the doors bolted for fear of arrest, the Master, in
morontia form, suddenly appeared in the midst of them, saying: "Peace be upon
you. Why are you so frightened when I appear, as though you had seen a spirit?
Did I not tell you about these things when I was present with you in the flesh?
Did I not say to you that the chief priests and the rulers would deliver me up
to be killed, that one of your own number would betray me, and that on the
third day I would rise? Wherefore all your doubtings and all this discussion
about the reports of the women, Cleopas and Jacob, and even Peter? How long
will you doubt my words and refuse to believe my promises? And now that you
actually see me, will you believe? Even now one of you is absent. When you are
gathered together once more, and after all of you know of a certainty that the
Son of Man has risen from the grave, go hence into Galilee. Have faith in God;
have faith in one another; and so shall you enter into the new service of the
kingdom of heaven. I will tarry in Jerusalem with you until you are ready to go
into Galilee. My peace I leave with you."

When the morontia Jesus had spoken to them, he vanished in an instant from
their sight. And they all fell on their faces, praising God and venerating
their vanished Master. This was the Master's ninth morontia appearance.

3. WITH THE MORONTIA CREATURES

The next day, Monday, was spent wholly with the morontia creatures then present
on Urantia. As participants in the Master's morontia-transition experience,
there had come to Urantia more than one million morontia directors and
associates, together with transition mortals of various orders from the seven
mansion worlds of Satania. The morontia Jesus sojourned with these splendid
intelligences for forty days. He instructed them and learned from their
directors

                               top of page - 2041

the life of morontia transition as it is traversed by the mortals of the
inhabited worlds of Satania as they pass through the system morontia spheres.

About midnight of this Monday the Master's morontia form was adjusted for
transition to the second stage of morontia progression. When he next appeared
to his mortal children on earth, it was as a second-stage morontia being. As
the Master progressed in the morontia career, it became, technically, more and
more difficult for the morontia intelligences and their transforming associates
to visualize the Master to mortal and material eyes.

Jesus made the transit to the third stage of morontia on Friday, April 14; to
the fourth stage on Monday, the 17th; to the fifth stage on Saturday, the 22nd;
to the sixth stage on Thursday, the 27th; to the seventh stage on Tuesday, May
2; to Jerusem citizenship on Sunday, the 7th; and he entered the embrace of the
Most Highs of Edentia on Sunday, the 14th.

In this manner did Michael of Nebadon complete his service of universe
experience since he had already, in connection with his previous bestowals,
experienced to the full the life of the ascendant mortals of time and space
from the sojourn on the headquarters of the constellation even on to, and
through, the service of the headquarters of the superuniverse. And it was by
these very morontia experiences that the Creator Son of Nebadon really finished
and acceptably terminated his seventh and final universe bestowal.

4. THE TENTH APPEARANCE (AT PHILADELPHIA)

The tenth morontia manifestation of Jesus to mortal recognition occurred a
short time after eight o'clock on Tuesday, April 11, at Philadelphia, where he
showed himself to Abner and Lazarus and some one hundred and fifty of their
associates, including more than fifty of the evangelistic corps of the seventy.
This appearance occurred just after the opening of a special meeting in the
synagogue which had been called by Abner to discuss the crucifixion of Jesus
and the more recent report of the resurrection which had been brought by
David's messenger. Inasmuch as the resurrected Lazarus was now a member of this
group of believers, it was not difficult for them to believe the report that
Jesus had risen from the dead.

The meeting in the synagogue was just being opened by Abner and Lazarus, who
were standing together in the pulpit, when the entire audience of believers saw
the form of the Master appear suddenly. He stepped forward from where he had
appeared between Abner and Lazarus, neither of whom had observed him, and
saluting the company, said:

"Peace be upon you. You all know that we have one Father in heaven, and that
there is but one gospel of the kingdom--the good news of the gift of eternal
life which men receive by faith. As you rejoice in your loyalty to the gospel,
pray the Father of truth to shed abroad in your hearts a new and greater love
for your brethren. You are to love all men as I have loved you; you are to
serve all men as I have served you. With understanding sympathy and brotherly
affection, fellowship all your brethren who are dedicated to the proclamation
of the good news, whether they be Jew or gentile, Greek or Roman, Persian or
Ethiopian. John proclaimed the kingdom in advance; you have preached the gospel
in power; the Greeks already teach the good news; and I am soon to send forth
the Spirit of Truth into the souls of all these, my brethren,

                               top of page - 2042

who have so unselfishly dedicated their lives to the enlightenment of their
fellows who sit in spiritual darkness. You are all the children of light;
therefore stumble not into the misunderstanding entanglements of mortal
suspicion and human intolerance. If you are ennobled, by the grace of faith, to
love unbelievers, should you not also equally love those who are your fellow
believers in the far-spreading household of faith? Remember, as you love one
another, all men will know that you are my disciples.

"Go, then, into all the world proclaiming this gospel of the fatherhood of God
and the brotherhood of men to all nations and races and ever be wise in your
choice of methods for presenting the good news to the different races and
tribes of mankind. Freely you have received this gospel of the kingdom, and you
will freely give the good news to all nations. Fear not the resistance of evil,
for I am with you always, even to the end of the ages. And my peace I leave
with you."

When he had said, "My peace I leave with you," he vanished from their sight.
With the exception of one of his appearances in Galilee, where upward of five
hundred believers saw him at one time, this group in Philadelphia embraced the
largest number of mortals who saw him on any single occasion.

Early the next morning, even while the apostles tarried in Jerusalem awaiting
the emotional recovery of Thomas, these believers at Philadelphia went forth
proclaiming that Jesus of Nazareth had risen from the dead.

The next day, Wednesday, Jesus spent without interruption in the society of his
morontia associates, and during the midafternoon hours he received visiting
morontia delegates from the mansion worlds of every local system of inhabited
spheres throughout the constellation of Norlatiadek. And they all rejoiced to
know their Creator as one of their own order of universe intelligence.

5. SECOND APPEARANCE TO THE APOSTLES

Thomas spent a lonesome week alone with himself in the hills around about
Olivet. During this time he saw only those at Simon's house and John Mark. It
was about nine o'clock on Saturday, April 15, when the two apostles found him
and took him back with them to their rendezvous at the Mark home. The next day
Thomas listened to the telling of the stories of the Master's various
appearances, but he steadfastly refused to believe. He maintained that Peter
had enthused them into thinking they had seen the Master. Nathaniel reasoned
with him, but it did no good. There was an emotional stubbornness associated
with his customary doubtfulness, and this state of mind, coupled with his
chagrin at having run away from them, conspired to create a situation of
isolation which even Thomas himself did not fully understand. He had withdrawn
from his fellows, he had gone his own way, and now, even when he was back among
them, he unconsciously tended to assume an attitude of disagreement. He was
slow to surrender; he disliked to give in. Without intending it, he really
enjoyed the attention paid him; he derived unconscious satisfaction from the
efforts of all his fellows to convince and convert him. He had missed them for
a full week, and he obtained considerable pleasure from their persistent
attentions.

They were having their evening meal a little after six o'clock, with Peter
sitting on one side of Thomas and Nathaniel on the other, when the doubting
apostle said: "I will not believe unless I see the Master with my own eyes and
put my finger in the mark of the nails." As they thus sat at supper, and while
the

                               top of page - 2043

doors were securely shut and barred, the morontia Master suddenly appeared
inside the curvature of the table and, standing directly in front of Thomas,
said:

"Peace be upon you. For a full week have I tarried that I might appear again
when you were all present to hear once more the commission to go into all the
world and preach this gospel of the kingdom. Again I tell you: As the Father
sent me into the world, so send I you. As I have revealed the Father, so shall
you reveal the divine love, not merely with words, but in your daily living. I
send you forth, not to love the souls of men, but rather to love men. You are
not merely to proclaim the joys of heaven but also to exhibit in your daily
experience these spirit realities of the divine life since you already have
eternal life, as the gift of God, through faith. When you have faith, when
power from on high, the Spirit of Truth, has come upon you, you will not hide
your light here behind closed doors; you will make known the love and the mercy
of God to all mankind. Through fear you now flee from the facts of a
disagreeable experience, but when you shall have been baptized with the Spirit
of Truth, you will bravely and joyously go forth to meet the new experiences of
proclaiming the good news of eternal life in the kingdom of God. You may tarry
here and in Galilee for a short season while you recover from the shock of the
transition from the false security of the authority of traditionalism to the
new order of the authority of facts, truth, and faith in the supreme realities
of living experience. Your mission to the world is founded on the fact that I
lived a God-revealing life among you; on the truth that you and all other men
are the sons of God; and it shall consist in the life which you will live among
men--the actual and living experience of loving men and serving them, even as I
have loved and served you. Let faith reveal your light to the world; let the
revelation of truth open the eyes blinded by tradition; let your loving service
effectually destroy the prejudice engendered by ignorance. By so drawing close
to your fellow men in understanding sympathy and with unselfish devotion, you
will lead them into a saving knowledge of the Father's love. The Jews have
extolled goodness; the Greeks have exalted beauty; the Hindus preach devotion;
the far-away ascetics teach reverence; the Romans demand loyalty; but I require
of my disciples life, even a life of loving service for your brothers in the
flesh."

When the Master had so spoken, he looked down into the face of Thomas and said:
"And you, Thomas, who said you would not believe unless you could see me and
put your finger in the nail marks of my hands, have now beheld me and heard my
words; and though you see no nail marks on my hands, since I am raised in the
form that you also shall have when you depart from this world, what will you
say to your brethren? You will acknowledge the truth, for already in your heart
you had begun to believe even when you so stoutly asserted your unbelief. Your
doubts, Thomas, always most stubbornly assert themselves just as they are about
to crumble. Thomas, I bid you be not faithless but believing--and I know you
will believe, even with a whole heart."

When Thomas heard these words, he fell on his knees before the morontia Master
and exclaimed, "I believe! My Lord and my Master!" Then said Jesus to Thomas:
"You have believed, Thomas, because you have really seen and heard me. Blessed
are those in the ages to come who will believe even though they have not seen
with the eye of flesh nor heard with the mortal ear."

And then, as the Master's form moved over near the head of the table, he
addressed them all, saying: "And now go all of you to Galilee, where I will
presently appear to you." After he said this, he vanished from their sight.

                               top of page - 2044

The eleven apostles were now fully convinced that Jesus had risen from the
dead, and very early the next morning, before the break of day, they started
out for Galilee.

6. THE ALEXANDRIAN APPEARANCE

While the eleven apostles were on the way to Galilee, drawing near their
journey's end, on Tuesday evening, April 18, at about half past eight o'clock,
Jesus appeared to Rodan and some eighty other believers, in Alexandria. This
was the Master's twelfth appearance in morontia form. Jesus appeared before
these Greeks and Jews at the conclusion of the report of David's messenger
regarding the crucifixion. This messenger, being the fifth in the
Jerusalem-Alexandria relay of runners, had arrived in Alexandria late that
afternoon, and when he had delivered his message to Rodan, it was decided to
call the believers together to receive this tragic word from the messenger
himself. At about eight o'clock, the messenger, Nathan of Busiris, came before
this group and told them in detail all that had been told him by the preceding
runner. Nathan ended his touching recital with these words: "But David, who
sends us this word, reports that the Master, in foretelling his death, declared
that he would rise again." Even as Nathan spoke, the morontia Master appeared
there in full view of all. And when Nathan sat down, Jesus said:

"Peace be upon you. That which my Father sent me into the world to establish
belongs not to a race, a nation, nor to a special group of teachers or
preachers. This gospel of the kingdom belongs to both Jew and gentile, to rich
and poor, to free and bond, to male and female, even to the little children.
And you are all to proclaim this gospel of love and truth by the lives which
you live in the flesh. You shall love one another with a new and startling
affection, even as I have loved you. You will serve mankind with a new and
amazing devotion, even as I have served you. And when men see you so love them,
and when they behold how fervently you serve them, they will perceive that you
have become faith-fellows of the kingdom of heaven, and they will follow after
the Spirit of Truth which they see in your lives, to the finding of eternal
salvation.

"As the Father sent me into this world, even so now send I you. You are all
called to carry the good news to those who sit in darkness. This gospel of the
kingdom belongs to all who believe it; it shall not be committed to the custody
of mere priests. Soon will the Spirit of Truth come upon you, and he shall lead
you into all truth. Go you, therefore, into all the world preaching this
gospel, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the ages."

When the Master had so spoken, he vanished from their sight. All that night
these believers remained there together recounting their experiences as kingdom
believers and listening to the many words of Rodan and his associates. And they
all believed that Jesus had risen from the dead. Imagine the surprise of
David's herald of the resurrection, who arrived the second day after this, when
they replied to his announcement, saying: "Yes, we know, for we have seen him.
He appeared to us day before yesterday."

                               top of page - 2045

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³     Morontia     ³  Appearances In   ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³    Appear...     ³        ...        ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
