                Urantia Book Paper 192 Appearances In Galilee
        SPIRITWEB ORG, PROMOTING SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON THE INTERNET.

 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem ... Appearances In Galilee
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Paper 192 Appearances In Galilee

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

BY THE time the apostles left Jerusalem for Galilee, the Jewish leaders had
quieted down considerably. Since Jesus appeared only to his family of kingdom
believers, and since the apostles were in hiding and did no public preaching,
the rulers of the Jews concluded that the gospel movement was, after all,
effectually crushed. They were, of course, disconcerted by the increasing
spread of rumors that Jesus had risen from the dead, but they depended upon the
bribed guards effectively to counteract all such reports by their reiteration
of the story that a band of his followers had removed the body.

From this time on, until the apostles were dispersed by the rising tide of
persecution, Peter was the generally recognized head of the apostolic corps.
Jesus never gave him any such authority, and his fellow apostles never formally
elected him to such a position of responsibility; he naturally assumed it and
held it by common consent and also because he was their chief preacher. From
now on public preaching became the main business of the apostles. After their
return from Galilee, Matthias, whom they chose to take the place of Judas,
became their treasurer.

During the week they tarried in Jerusalem, Mary the mother of Jesus spent much
of the time with the women believers who were stopping at the home of Joseph of
Arimathea.

Early this Monday morning when the apostles departed for Galilee, John Mark
went along. He followed them out of the city, and when they had passed well
beyond Bethany, he boldly came up among them, feeling confident they would not
send him back.

The apostles paused several times on the way to Galilee to tell the story of
their risen Master and therefore did not arrive at Bethsaida until very late on
Wednesday night. It was noontime on Thursday before they were all awake and
ready to partake of breakfast.

1. APPEARANCE BY THE LAKE

About six o'clock Friday morning, April 21, the morontia Master made his
thirteenth appearance, the first in Galilee, to the ten apostles as their boat
drew near the shore close to the usual landing place at Bethsaida.

After the apostles had spent the afternoon and early evening of Thursday in
waiting at the Zebedee home, Simon Peter suggested that they go fishing. When
Peter proposed the fishing trip, all of the apostles decided to go along. All
night they toiled with the nets but caught no fish. They did not much mind the
failure to make a catch, for they had many interesting experiences to talk
over, things

                               top of page - 2046

which had so recently happened to them at Jerusalem. But when daylight came,
they decided to return to Bethsaida. As they neared the shore, they saw someone
on the beach, near the boat landing, standing by a fire. At first they thought
it was John Mark, who had come down to welcome them back with their catch, but
as they drew nearer the shore, they saw they were mistaken--the man was too
tall for John. It had occurred to none of them that the person on the shore was
the Master. They did not altogether understand why Jesus wanted to meet with
them amidst the scenes of their earlier associations and out in the open in
contact with nature, far away from the shut-in environment of Jerusalem with
its tragic associations of fear, betrayal, and death. He had told them that, if
they would go into Galilee, he would meet them there, and he was about to
fulfill that promise.

As they dropped anchor and prepared to enter the small boat for going ashore,
the man on the beach called to them, "Lads, have you caught anything?" And when
they answered, "No," he spoke again. "Cast the net on the right side of the
boat, and you will find fish." While they did not know it was Jesus who had
directed them, with one accord they cast in the net as they had been
instructed, and immediately it was filled, so much so that they were hardly
able to draw it up. Now, John Zebedee was quick of perception, and when he saw
the heavy-laden net, he perceived that it was the Master who had spoken to
them. When this thought came into his mind, he leaned over and whispered to
Peter, "It is the Master." Peter was ever a man of thoughtless action and
impetuous devotion; so when John whispered this in his ear, he quickly arose
and cast himself into the water that he might the sooner reach the Master's
side. His brethren came up close behind him, having come ashore in the small
boat, hauling the net of fishes after them.

By this time John Mark was up and, seeing the apostles coming ashore with the
heavy-laden net, ran down the beach to greet them; and when he saw eleven men
instead of ten, he surmised that the unrecognized one was the risen Jesus, and
as the astonished ten stood by in silence, the youth rushed up to the Master
and, kneeling at his feet, said, "My Lord and my Master." And then Jesus spoke,
not as he had in Jerusalem, when he greeted them with "Peace be upon you," but
in commonplace tones he addressed John Mark: "Well, John, I am glad to see you
again and in carefree Galilee, where we can have a good visit. Stay with us,
John, and have breakfast."

As Jesus talked with the young man, the ten were so astonished and surprised
that they neglected to haul the net of fish in upon the beach. Now spoke Jesus:
"Bring in your fish and prepare some for breakfast. Already we have the fire
and much bread."

While John Mark had paid homage to the Master, Peter had for a moment been
shocked at the sight of the coals of fire glowing there on the beach; the scene
reminded him so vividly of the midnight fire of charcoal in the courtyard of
Annas, where he had disowned the Master, but he shook himself and, kneeling at
the Master's feet, exclaimed, "My Lord and my Master!"

Peter then joined his comrades as they hauled in the net. When they had landed
their catch, they counted the fish, and there were 153 large ones. And again
was the mistake made of calling this another miraculous catch of fish. There
was no miracle connected with this episode. It was merely an exercise of the
Master's preknowledge. He knew the fish were there and accordingly directed the
apostles where to cast the net.

                               top of page - 2047

Jesus spoke to them, saying: "Come now, all of you, to breakfast. Even the
twins should sit down while I visit with you; John Mark will dress the fish."
John Mark brought seven good-sized fish, which the Master put on the fire, and
when they were cooked, the lad served them to the ten. Then Jesus broke the
bread and handed it to John, who in turn served it to the hungry apostles. When
they had all been served, Jesus bade John Mark sit down while he himself served
the fish and the bread to the lad. And as they ate, Jesus visited with them and
recounted their many experiences in Galilee and by this very lake.

This was the third time Jesus had manifested himself to the apostles as a
group. When Jesus first addressed them, asking if they had any fish, they did
not suspect who he was because it was a common experience for these fishermen
on the Sea of Galilee, when they came ashore, to be thus accosted by the fish
merchants of Tarichea, who were usually on hand to buy the fresh catches for
the drying establishments.

Jesus visited with the ten apostles and John Mark for more than an hour, and
then he walked up and down the beach, talking with them two and two--but not
the same couples he had at first sent out together to teach. All eleven of the
apostles had come down from Jerusalem together, but Simon Zelotes grew more and
more despondent as they drew near Galilee, so that, when they reached
Bethsaida, he forsook his brethren and returned to his home.

Before taking leave of them this morning, Jesus directed that two of the
apostles should volunteer to go to Simon Zelotes and bring him back that very
day. And Peter and Andrew did so.

2. VISITING WITH THE APOSTLES TWO AND TWO

When they had finished breakfast, and while the others sat by the fire, Jesus
beckoned to Peter and to John that they should come with him for a stroll on
the beach. As they walked along, Jesus said to John, "John, do you love me?"
And when John answered, "Yes, Master, with all my heart," the Master said:
"Then, John, give up your intolerance and learn to love men as I have loved
you. Devote your life to proving that love is the greatest thing in the world.
It is the love of God that impels men to seek salvation. Love is the ancestor
of all spiritual goodness, the essence of the true and the beautiful."

Jesus then turned toward Peter and asked, "Peter, do you love me?" Peter
answered, "Lord, you know I love you with all my soul." Then said Jesus: "If
you love me, Peter, feed my lambs. Do not neglect to minister to the weak, the
poor, and the young. Preach the gospel without fear or favor; remember always
that God is no respecter of persons. Serve your fellow men even as I have
served you; forgive your fellow mortals even as I have forgiven you. Let
experience teach you the value of meditation and the power of intelligent
reflection."

After they had walked along a little farther, the Master turned to Peter and
asked, "Peter, do you really love me?" And then said Simon, "Yes, Lord, you
know that I love you." And again said Jesus: "Then take good care of my sheep.
Be a good and a true shepherd to the flock. Betray not their confidence in you.
Be not taken by surprise at the enemy's hand. Be on guard at all times--watch
and pray."

When they had gone a few steps farther, Jesus turned to Peter and, for the
third time, asked, "Peter, do you truly love me?" And then Peter, being
slightly

                               top of page - 2048

grieved at the Master's seeming distrust of him, said with considerable
feeling, "Lord, you know all things, and therefore do you know that I really
and truly love you." Then said Jesus: "Feed my sheep. Do not forsake the flock.
Be an example and an inspiration to all your fellow shepherds. Love the flock
as I have loved you and devote yourself to their welfare even as I have devoted
my life to your welfare. And follow after me even to the end."

Peter took this last statement literally--that he should continue to follow
after him--and turning to Jesus, he pointed to John, asking, "If I follow on
after you, what shall this man do?" And then, perceiving that Peter had
misunderstood his words, Jesus said: "Peter, be not concerned about what your
brethren shall do. If I will that John should tarry after you are gone, even
until I come back, what is that to you? Only make sure that you follow me."

This remark spread among the brethren and was received as a statement by Jesus
to the effect that John would not die before the Master returned, as many
thought and hoped, to establish the kingdom in power and glory. It was this
interpretation of what Jesus said that had much to do with getting Simon
Zelotes back into service, and keeping him at work.

When they returned to the others, Jesus went for a walk and talk with Andrew
and James. When they had gone a short distance, Jesus said to Andrew, "Andrew,
do you trust me?" And when the former chief of the apostles heard Jesus ask
such a question, he stood still and answered, "Yes, Master, of a certainty I
trust you, and you know that I do." Then said Jesus: "Andrew, if you trust me,
trust your brethren more--even Peter. I once trusted you with the leadership of
your brethren. Now must you trust others as I leave you to go to the Father.
When your brethren begin to scatter abroad because of bitter persecutions, be a
considerate and wise counselor to James my brother in the flesh when they put
heavy burdens upon him which he is not qualified by experience to bear. And
then go on trusting, for I will not fail you. When you are through on earth,
you shall come to me."

Then Jesus turned to James, asking, "James, do you trust me?" And of course
James replied, "Yes, Master, I trust you with all my heart." Then said Jesus:
"James, if you trust me more, you will be less impatient with your brethren. If
you will trust me, it will help you to be kind to the brotherhood of believers.
Learn to weigh the consequences of your sayings and your doings. Remember that
the reaping is in accordance with the sowing. Pray for tranquillity of spirit
and cultivate patience. These graces, with living faith, shall sustain you when
the hour comes to drink the cup of sacrifice. But never be dismayed; when you
are through on earth, you shall also come to be with me."

Jesus next talked with Thomas and Nathaniel. Said he to Thomas, "Thomas, do you
serve me?" Thomas replied, "Yes, Lord, I serve you now and always." Then said
Jesus: "If you would serve me, serve my brethren in the flesh even as I have
served you. And be not weary in this well-doing but persevere as one who has
been ordained by God for this service of love. When you have finished your
service with me on earth, you shall serve with me in glory. Thomas, you must
cease doubting; you must grow in faith and the knowledge of truth. Believe in
God like a child but cease to act so childishly. Have courage; be strong in
faith and mighty in the kingdom of God."

                               top of page - 2049

Then said the Master to Nathaniel, "Nathaniel, do you serve me?" And the
apostle answered, "Yes, Master, and with an undivided affection." Then said
Jesus: "If, therefore, you serve me with a whole heart, make sure that you are
devoted to the welfare of my brethren on earth with tireless affection. Admix
friendship with your counsel and add love to your philosophy. Serve your fellow
men even as I have served you. Be faithful to men as I have watched over you.
Be less critical; expect less of some men and thereby lessen the extent of your
disappointment. And when the work down here is over, you shall serve with me on
high."

After this the Master talked with Matthew and Philip. To Philip he said,
"Philip, do you obey me?" Philip answered, "Yes, Lord, I will obey you even
with my life." Then said Jesus: "If you would obey me, go then into the lands
of the gentiles and proclaim this gospel. The prophets have told you that to
obey is better than to sacrifice. By faith have you become a God-knowing
kingdom son. There is but one law to obey--that is the command to go forth
proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom. Cease to fear men; be unafraid to preach
the good news of eternal life to your fellows who languish in darkness and
hunger for the light of truth. No more, Philip, shall you busy yourself with
money and goods. You now are free to preach the glad tidings just as are your
brethren. And I will go before you and be with you even to the end."

And then, speaking to Matthew, the Master asked, "Matthew, do you have it in
your heart to obey me?" Matthew answered, "Yes, Lord, I am fully dedicated to
doing your will." Then said the Master: "Matthew, if you would obey me, go
forth to teach all peoples this gospel of the kingdom. No longer will you serve
your brethren the material things of life; henceforth you are also to proclaim
the good news of spiritual salvation. From now on have an eye single only to
obeying your commission to preach this gospel of the Father's kingdom. As I
have done the Father's will on earth, so shall you fulfill the divine
commission. Remember, both Jew and gentile are your brethren. Fear no man when
you proclaim the saving truths of the gospel of the kingdom of heaven. And
where I go, you shall presently come."

Then he walked and talked with the Alpheus twins, James and Judas, and speaking
to both of them, he asked, "James and Judas, do you believe in me?" And when
they both answered, "Yes, Master, we do believe," he said: "I will soon leave
you. You see that I have already left you in the flesh. I tarry only a short
time in this form before I go to my Father. You believe in me--you are my
apostles, and you always will be. Go on believing and remembering your
association with me, when I am gone, and after you have, perchance, returned to
the work you used to do before you came to live with me. Never allow a change
in your outward work to influence your allegiance. Have faith in God to the end
of your days on earth. Never forget that, when you are a faith son of God, all
upright work of the realm is sacred. Nothing which a son of God does can be
common. Do your work, therefore, from this time on, as for God. And when you
are through on this world, I have other and better worlds where you shall
likewise work for me. And in all of this work, on this world and on other
worlds, I will work with you, and my spirit shall dwell within you."

It was almost ten o'clock when Jesus returned from his visit with the Alpheus
twins, and as he left the apostles, he said: "Farewell, until I meet you all on
the

                               top of page - 2050

mount of your ordination tomorrow at noontime." When he had thus spoken, he
vanished from their sight.

3. ON THE MOUNT OF ORDINATION

At noon on Saturday, April 22, the eleven apostles assembled by appointment on
the hill near Capernaum, and Jesus appeared among them. This meeting occurred
on the very mount where the Master had set them apart as his apostles and as
ambassadors of the Father's kingdom on earth. And this was the Master's
fourteenth morontia manifestation.

At this time the eleven apostles knelt in a circle about the Master and heard
him repeat the charges and saw him re-enact the ordination scene even as when
they were first set apart for the special work of the kingdom. And all of this
was to them as a memory of their former consecration to the Father's service,
except the Master's prayer. When the Master--the morontia Jesus--now prayed, it
was in tones of majesty and with words of power such as the apostles had never
before heard. Their Master now spoke with the rulers of the universes as one
who, in his own universe, had had all power and authority committed to his
hand. And these eleven men never forgot this experience of the morontia
rededication to the former pledges of ambassadorship. The Master spent just one
hour on this mount with his ambassadors, and when he had taken an affectionate
farewell of them, he vanished from their sight.

And no one saw Jesus for a full week. The apostles really had no idea what to
do, not knowing whether the Master had gone to the Father. In this state of
uncertainty they tarried at Bethsaida. They were afraid to go fishing lest he
come to visit them and they miss seeing him. During this entire week Jesus was
occupied with the morontia creatures on earth and with the affairs of the
morontia transition which he was experiencing on this world.

4. THE LAKESIDE GATHERING

Word of the appearances of Jesus was spreading throughout Galilee, and every
day increasing numbers of believers arrived at the Zebedee home to inquire
about the Master's resurrection and to find out the truth about these reputed
appearances. Peter, early in the week, sent out word that a public meeting
would be held by the seaside the next Sabbath at three o'clock in the
afternoon.

Accordingly, on Saturday, April 29, at three o'clock, more than five hundred
believers from the environs of Capernaum assembled at Bethsaida to hear Peter
preach his first public sermon since the resurrection. The apostle was at his
best, and after he had finished his appealing discourse, few of his hearers
doubted that the Master had risen from the dead.

Peter ended his sermon, saying: "We affirm that Jesus of Nazareth is not dead;
we declare that he has risen from the tomb; we proclaim that we have seen him
and talked with him." Just as he finished making this declaration of faith,
there by his side, in full view of all these people, the Master appeared in
morontia form and, speaking to them in familiar accents, said, "Peace be upon
you, and my peace I leave with you." When he had thus appeared and had so
spoken to them, he vanished from their sight. This was the fifteenth morontia
manifestation of the risen Jesus.

                               top of page - 2051

Because of certain things said to the eleven while they were in conference with
the Master on the mount of ordination, the apostles received the impression
that their Master would presently make a public appearance before a group of
the Galilean believers, and that, after he had done so, they were to return to
Jerusalem. Accordingly, early the next day, Sunday, April 30, the eleven left
Bethsaida for Jerusalem. They did considerable teaching and preaching on the
way down the Jordan, so that they did not arrive at the home of the Marks in
Jerusalem until late on Wednesday, May 3.

This was a sad home-coming for John Mark. Just a few hours before he reached
home, his father, Elijah Mark, suddenly died from a hemorrhage in the brain.
Although the thought of the certainty of the resurrection of the dead did much
to comfort the apostles in their grief, at the same time they truly mourned the
loss of their good friend, who had been their stanch supporter even in the
times of great trouble and disappointment. John Mark did all he could to
comfort his mother and, speaking for her, invited the apostles to continue to
make their home at her house. And the eleven made this upper chamber their
headquarters until after the day of Pentecost.

The apostles had purposely entered Jerusalem after nightfall that they might
not be seen by the Jewish authorities. Neither did they publicly appear in
connection with the funeral of Elijah Mark. All the next day they remained in
quiet seclusion in this eventful upper chamber.

On Thursday night the apostles had a wonderful meeting in this upper chamber
and all pledged themselves to go forth in the public preaching of the new
gospel of the risen Lord except Thomas, Simon Zelotes, and the Alpheus twins.
Already had begun the first steps of changing the gospel of the
kingdom--sonship with God and brotherhood with man--into the proclamation of
the resurrection of Jesus. Nathaniel opposed this shift in the burden of their
public message, but he could not withstand Peter's eloquence, neither could he
overcome the enthusiasm of the disciples, especially the women believers.

And so, under the vigorous leadership of Peter and ere the Master ascended to
the Father, his well-meaning representatives began that subtle process of
gradually and certainly changing the religion of Jesus into a new and modified
from of religion about Jesus.

                               top of page - 2052

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Subjects Archive The Urantia Book Urantia Book PART IV: The Life and Teachings
  of Jesus : The Bestowal Of Michael On Urantia The Times Of Michael's Bestowal
 Birth And Infancy Of Jesus The Early Childhood Of Jesus The Later Childhood Of
   Jesus Jesus At Jerusalem The Two Crucial Years The Adolescent Years Jesus'
   Early Manhood The Later Adult Life Of Jesus On The Way To Rome The World's
  Religions The Sojourn At Rome The Return From Rome The Transition Years John
  The Baptist Baptism And The Forty Days Tarrying Time In Galilee Training The
Kingdom's Messengers The Twelve Apostles The Ordination Of The Twelve Beginning
  The Public Work The Passover At Jerusalem Going Through Samaria At Gilboa And
    In The Decapolis Four Eventful Days At Capernaum First Preaching Tour Of
 Galilee The Interlude Visit To Jerusalem Training Evangelists At Bethsaida The
  Second Preaching Tour The Third Preaching Tour Tarrying And Teaching By The
 Seaside Events Leading Up To The Capernaum Crisis The Crisis At Capernaum Last
   Days At Capernaum Fleeing Through Northern Galilee The Sojourn At Tyre And
   Sidon At Caesarea-philippi The Mount Of Transfiguration The Decapolis Tour
 Rodan Of Alexandria Further Discussions With Rodan At The Feast Of Tabernacles
   Ordination Of The Seventy At Magadan At The Feast Of Dedication The Perean
    Mission Begins Last Visit To Northern Perea The Visit To Philadelphia The
Resurrection Of Lazarus Last Teaching At Pella The Kingdom Of Heaven On The Way
  To Jerusalem Going Into Jerusalem Monday In Jerusalem Tuesday Morning In The
Temple The Last Temple Discourse Tuesday Evening On Mount Olivet Wednesday, The
   Rest Day Last Day At The Camp The Last Supper The Farewell Discourse Final
 Admonitions And Warnings In Gethsemane The Betrayal And Arrest Of Jesus Before
  The Sanhedrin Court The Trial Before Pilate Just Before The Crucifixion The
Crucifixion The Time Of The Tomb The Resurrection Morontia Appearances Of Jesus
   Appearances To The Apostles And Other Leaders Appearances In Galilee Final
  Appearances And Ascension Bestowal Of The Spirit Of Truth After Pentecost The
                                 Faith Of Jesus

ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        //        ³                   ³                   ³        ³          ³
³  Appearances To  ³       Final       ³   Urantia Book    ³ Search ³ SiteMap! ³
³       ...        ³   Appearanc...    ³       PA...       ³        ³          ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
//

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÚÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄ¿
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           SPIRITWEB ORG (info@spiritweb.org),           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                http://www.spiritweb.org                 ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³           Webmaster <webmaster@spiritweb.org>           ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³      ONLINE SINCE 1993. MAINTAINED IN SWITZERLAND.      ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³ DISTRIBUTED TO CALIFORNIA, SPAIN, ITALY, SOUTH AFRICA,  ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                        AUSTRALIA                        ³  ³
³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³  ³                                                         ³  ³
ÀÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÙ
