2874

                            T.O.P.Y is..... 

No matter how often we stress that thee Temple seeks to create a sense
ov fierce individuality, that it is for each Individual to redefine and
redesign TOPY within themselves to meet their own needs, thee questions
still arise: What is TOPY? What is thee Psychick Cross? What is thee
significance ov 23?  It seems that there is still a need, or at least a
belief that such things should be cast in black and white, for a clear,
concise description ov exactly how TOPY should be viewed, ov how its
signs and symbols should be interpreted. Not that such questions can be
answered, certainly not in a way that would remain specific enough to
satisfy thee enquiring, yet broad enough to remain true to thee
multitude ov Individuals who make up thee Temple. As we have said
before, and no doubt will say again, TOPY exists to promote a system ov
functional, demystified magick, utilising both pagan and modern
techniques. 

It is a process ov individual and collective experimentation and
research with no finite answers, dogmas or unchallengeable truths. It is
for each to discover his or her own understanding ov thee questions that
suggest themselves, and through that voyage ov discovery to find their
personal and true identity, thee True Will. To set down on paper
pre-packaged responses would be to deny thee opportunity for self-expre-
ssion, to defeat thee purpose for which we are all striving. Worse than
this, it would take away thee fun, thee simple joy ov finding things out
for ourselves.

Thee following texts are drawn from a variety ov sources, but all deal
with thee most common questions that are asked. Some are written by
Individuals with considerable experience ov TOPY methods, others by
those who are new to thee Temple. Some are taken from letters clarifying
ideas or criticising TOPY, others from more general places. We have
taken much from thee many responses we have had to thee Skills Access
form all Temple Individuals are asked to complete. Thee views expressed
are entirely those ov thee individual authors. They have been edited to
fit into thee structure ov this booklet, but in all cases we have taken
care not to distort what has been said, or to interpret what we as
individuals may find unclear. This is thee Temple talking to thee Temple
- a communion and communication ov Individuals to Individuals.

Before we go further, it should be remembered that people are attracted
to TOPY for many different reasons, that there is nothing consistent,
nothing to categorise. There are those who claim to know nothing, and
those who presume to know it all. This changes in time, as thee Temple
draws out strengths and eliminates weaknesses.

Everyone, without exception, who gets in touch with thee Temple is urged
to demonstrate their interest by setting out their own thoughts and
ideas, a first step in showing a commitment to what thee Temple stands
for. We are pleased that those who think they know little are at least
as able to respond as those with greater experience. There is no "right
response", and no shame in honesty. We thank all those who have
contributed to thee publication ov this booklet, and urge everyone who
reads it to follow their lead. As information flows in, so we will
ensure that it flows out. That is thee meaning ov Feedback, a continuity
ov expression flowing both in and out, creating a new understanding, a
new sound, a new dimension.

2875

T.O.P.Y. is action against dissatisfaction in a society that is passive
not peaceful (aiming for the throat)


From the Institute Of Positive Pagan Nihilism
to the passionate process that enfolds
(but does not control)
there is hope through energy.


Energies directed and multiplied,
energies conformed then deformed
energies facilitating psychick enemas.
To purge and purify,
to pain and putrefy.


To communicate is to cure.


-----------------------------------------

Thee Temple ov Psychick Youth is a collective body ov Individuals, all
working together towards a common goal. It is about thinking deeply
about oneself, questioning one's role in a so-called free society.

Man is essentially a robot: he has set programmes imposed on his life,
even before he is born. Whatever Man does he should do with passion. He
should rise above thee imposed trappings ov society. Involvement with
thee Temple is purely active and positive, thee bottom line being: "I
don't want to lead a pointless existence, following and accepting thee
indoctrination ov a worthless society.

With Man's progress, our self-destructive nature drives us all further
from our true selves. In thee Temple we are a group ov people trying to
halt this process by turning into ourselves and helping others to
accomplish thee same. From birth, a person is conditioned to conform to
thee accepted laws and morals ov thee society in which they find
themselves - each institution and aspect ov our culture is intertwined
with guilt and fears in order to push us on to thee acceptable path.
Society is thus so easily capable ov moulding one into a flat, one-dime-
nsional person (thee socially acceptable yet controlled person). TOPY
goes to thee root ov thee problem, challenging us to honestly reveal our
innermost needs, expectations and desires, ov bringing them to con-
sciousness in the hope ov breaking society's Chain ov Control.

Involvement with TOPY can stem from an interest in investigating thee
potentialities ov thee brain: knowledge that has been massively
suppressed by those in Power. It includes making known information on
both a political/conspiracy level, and on thee level ov an Individual's
control over their own life. We have been taught to view thee State as
a crutch to lean on, to fill our heads with pre-packaged ideologies that
avoid thee need for us to think for ourselves and which create a society
ov dead, bored, apathetic people. TOPY counters this by fighting
conditioning and by allowing thee individual's true selves to come
through - at thee same time there is action/research to demonstrate how
all pervasive thee "spectacular" society is. By working together we can
pool research, theories and actions: this way forward avoids needless
2876

duplication and, where necessary, provides allies and support for
action. Much ov thee control mechanism ov society is based on guilt
about/around sex, it being easier to control a sexually repressed
person who thus always has a weak spot for thee Servants ov Power to
press. For this reason, thee Temple strives to destroy thee conditioning
ov guilt that lies deep in thee mind and which chains it to a mundane
existence.  Through thee process ov freed (and free) love/sexuality thee
mind can be focused and channelled against all ov Power's conditioning
mechanisms.

Thee tools ov thee Temple are first and foremost those which lay us open
to thee reality ov life in permanent flux. Many techniques can be used:
trance inducing music, chanting, dancing - these can all help strip down
our outer mundane shell, exposing our inner core to thee free play ov
creative forces.  Thee method most favoured by thee Temple (because it
is surrounded by thee most imposed guilt, fear and limitation) is thee
unashamed exploration ov sexuality. Fundamental to thee workings ov thee
Temple is thee belief that great psychic force/energy is released at
thee point ov orgasm and that this, if channelled, can effectively "make
those things happen" which will bring you closer to your ideal self.

This technique, and many more, can be found within thee many and varied
spiritual/magickal traditions ov thee world. It is thee aim ov thee
Temple, through practical experimentation, to extract thee core ov truth
running through all, and thus demystified to present a working formula
for any Individual courageous and compassionate enough to strike against
dogma, habit, guilt, fear and all that weighs on thee spirit; to strike
against flat monotony under all its titles, and to step into a magickal
perception ov thee world.

TOPY is a lifeline ov magickal people aiming to change society for thee
better through thee magickal transformation ov Individuals, and by
helping people to understand thee power and potency ov their sexuality.
A common mistake people make is that they think that TOPY is just
another fanatical religious organisation. They hear thee name "Thee
Temple Ov Psyckick Youth" and automatically assume its philosophy will
be an unquestioning dogma for thee masses. (Proving ov course that thee
society-controlled mass mind simply projects its crippled reality on to
those who seek to challenge thee orthodoxy ov thee moment.) However,
thee difference between TOPY and other groups is that we create an
environment in which Individuals have no choice but to find their own
answers in order to improve themselves. Thee emphasis is very much on
individual exploration. TOPY gives people hints and pointers, and
whereas other organisations may make it easy for people seeking to find
"answers", TOPY stresses that it is up to thee Individual's personal
efforts for anything to be gained. And it is a two-way process: as thee
Individual learns things from involvement with thee Temple, so thee
Temple as a wider body learns from thee Individual.

There are elements ov truth in all schools ov thought, but not one
single school can be thee "most correct" (no monopoly on knowledge!).
What is needed is to take thee parts from all - those aspects that seem
thee most logical and honest - and to discard that which perhaps reeks
ov theatricals; understanding thee use ov rituals, as did thee so-called
"ignorant" Indians ov America before thee evil Christian soiled their
pure mind (pure in that they understood thee deeper reality that is thee
essence ov magick). Many races and cultures ov thee world have stumbled
across truths in their religions.  We should make use ov these and 2877
2877

develop our own minds in all possible ways.

Ov every organisation, TOPY comes closer than any to thee ideal ov
freedom.  All areas ov life, especially those most taken for granted as
being correct and right, are called into question. Questions open up
possibilities ov thought and action, all in thee pursuit ov a sublime
happiness. Not only does this intense questioning stimulate life, but it
helps us affirm or reaffirm ideas and behaviours. TOPY allows people
more confidence and comfort - hence more pleasure with themselves - in
their own environment. Comfort is not laziness. TOPY further guarantees
freedom (something that no other social arrangement can do, except that
which evolves between very close friends) by not only tolerating
differences in thoughts and actions, but by encouraging natural,
intrinsic differences; that is, TOPY recognises thee inate potential
godliness ov being; and its methods, its Psychick Cross, its 23, its Ov,
can all help foster thee beauty ov each Being.

Thee Temple is a creative organisation, a place to share and learn.
Creativity needs to be freed. Time waits for no-one. We live once, so we
take the opportunity: Participation.

Is thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth a cult?

Yes, a non-existent one in that it exists as a cult only for those who
are uninformed and uninvolved. Thee Temple gives those involved positive
ammunition in thee war to relcaim ourselves, our world, our time, our
love, thee truth. To disconnect thee cables ov control.

Thee Temple az a non-organisation recognises thee reality ov Individ-ua-
ls. Thee power ov Individuals focused by choice to some common points.
We, as multi-dimensional peoples live yes and no; colours, not black and
white/either-or. There are more than two choices! Religion, history,
psychology, magick: integrated for individual use. Sucksessors? To thee
Surrealists and thee Hippies? Radical interest in political and
spiritual.

Sexuality as focus. Ov Power. Subconscious guns. Thee orgazm as divine
messenger. No denial ov sense-based vision. We are free! Let us stand up
to see it through thee veil ov control.

Many people ov small mind and spirit try to deny thee Temple its right
ov existence. They are so completely disillusioned and hopeless that
they demand we all be as miserable as they are. They call us crazy,
power hungry, ego-maniacs, perverse, money-hungry, non-sensical freaks.

O.K. Crazy? To change thee world we live in, yes.  Power hungry? For
power over our own lives and destiny.  Ego-maniacs? Yes, if as usual
their definition ov an ego-maniac is someone who wants to achieve, grow,
change and progress. Yes - WE DO THINGS!  Perverse? Yes, and proud. Thee
rational ov thee world is no rationale.  Sense? Right? Normal?
Whose sense? Whose right? Whose normal? No sense makes sense. Our
sexuality is our own. If you don't like it, leave it.
Money hungry? Sure. Money is but a way to get things done. Not thee only
way, but a way.  Freaks? Oh yes! No, we do not fit in, we never fit in,
and we choose it that way, thank you. Fashion, morals, duty: they are
yours not ours. YOU keep them. A freak is someone with individual
motivation, separate from thee dictates ov past, present and future.

2878

Thee Temple is not for all. In this time/space or ever.

WE WERE. WE ARE. WE WILL BE. WE ARE AZ WE ARE. AZ WE ARE. WE ARE
AZ WE AZ ARE WE. WE AZ ARE. WE AZ WE. WE AZ WE ARE. WE ARE AZ WE
ARE. AN ETERNAL L-OV-E IN

TOPY is a collaboration ov Individuals. We fight all forms ov restric-
tion to realise thee potential ov thee human brain through a system ov
pagan Magick. It exists devoid ov dogma, be it political or religious.
Information is shared amongst those involved, not in order to be treated
as instruction but rather as a means to promote participation, dis-
cipline and contribution to an ideal as opposed to self-ambition. Thee
recognition that only truth counts.  Rituals (sigils) are employed as a
means ov discovering one's true psyche, desires (and their realisation),
integrating thee conscious and subconscious as a way to produce a
spiritually whole person as opposed to a fragmented shell.

TOPY attempts to wake people up to thee fact that they are controlled,
socially programmed to suit those with an interest in control, and that
guilt and fear are weapons employed to suppress natural advancement.
Preconceptions must be swept aside and a de-programming occur until
fearless and guiltless sexuality is mastered. Thee Temple embraces
suitable forms ov technology to support its aims for collective
advancement. Methods ov information access include PTV recordings,
booklists, video deprogramming transmissions. These are all designed to
surprise, even shock, but with a view to expansion, thee removal ov
limitation.

***********************

It is difficult to understand the infinite and the inexpressible
contained, albeit hidden controlled and repressed, in much ov the grey
parade that is called life, even within one's own mind; but to commun-
icate an idea that is beyond your own ego to another ego is almost
impossible. The closest things to transmitting such ideas are Zen
Parables, or Koans, such as what is the sound of one hand clapping, or
what is enlightened Buddha being answered by being hit over the head
with a brick. The Temple represents colour, but colour has to be seen,
not intellectually analysed.

I justify my involvement with the Temple by saying, just as the present
world needs the Temple (love being such a rare bird) I feel the need to
help and be part ov something that represents evolution and a better
future. I personally have lost "friends" because ov their inability to
perceive what the Temple means (people conditioned by shit... who see in
their little egos the wearing ov a PTV badge as evidence ov  a
brainwashed moonie-type cult.  How can I be in a cult when I know only
one individual even slightly connected with the Temple?; yet people
whose only knowledge ov the Temple - love, the future, colour, magick as
sublime poetry - is gleaned from those who wish to climb up the
intestines ov the machine ov Babylon by slagging the Temple off, presume
to know better). Magick defends itself, but at times the gentleness I
see in the Temple makes it a sitting duck for the projection ov
complexes ov the cynical, bitter and controlled. The Temple's crusade to
free the individual from control so s/he can grow focuses on sexuality
because it's the only thing everybody is involved with at some
point in their passage from birth to death, in whatever form. This is
what scares the repressed, the puritanical who seem intent on punishing
2879

a new generation for the brief but vital progress that took place in the
60s. There is no Temple sexuality: its sexuality is mine, yours, or that
ov any other individual involved. There is fuck all wrong with sex
despite the macho-men and unbelievable creations ov the media and the
flags ov restriction put up by both the political left and the right
(all nasty oppressive illusions, not only are all cliches true, but all
paradox).

The methods ov the Temple are vital because ov the appreciation ov the
functional uses ov technology, the Magick ov the 1980s is filed on
computer, photographed and taped, rather like the tools ov control. As
Peter the Great ov Russia said: "our enemies will teach us how to beat
them." The Cross is a symbol. Like all symbols it helps communicate an
idea quickly and focuses the will. It is potent and harmless and very
powerful. The nuber 23 is a bit ov a situationist prank as nothing
freaks out the flat people as this mystic number.

The Temple = psychedelic + discipline

Individuals controlling their own minds themselves, by opening up.

***********************

TOPY WITHOUT TEARS

Most people, when they come into contact with TOPY, will do so via
Psychic TV. Whilst being a useful expression of and filter for TOPY,
this has been the cause of misunderstanding of what TOPY is about, why
it has to be here.

Firstly, it's important to say that TOPY is emphatically not a fan club
for PTV

- not a spin-off. While PTV are there for everyone to see, access
without thought, as it were, TOPY is something else - it "gives" to the
amount you "push". It lies behind, but is not contained by, PTV.

This much should be obvious. It is easier to say what TOPY isn't than to
say what it is.

Basically, TOPY as a "system" is an expression of the ideas and methods
of all the individuals involved. But TOPY "in itself" is harder to
define - it is the idealised Hidden Instrument of Evolution - the
"organum occultus". The hidden instrument is magickal- a synergetic
interaction of certain powers of the brain. It has no "direction". Its
centre is everywhere. Thus it cannot be "possessed". The hidden instru-
ment is the means by which inner potential "happens".

TOPY is about setting change into motion NOW. It's about questioning
authority NOW. It's about releasing the social function of subjectivity
from the doghouse. Letting the dog roam free.

All this is now. TOPY has arrived as an urgent force to overcome the
endless deferral of all this - the realisation of our dreams.

Our resource - our sincerity.

It is a synchronistic vector - the "dis-ease" being the dream of social
2880

and individual transformatin - of which we continually remind ourselves,
and struggle to realise, in our rituals, our work.

TOPY is an expanding system of caring and action - communication without
limit - MUTUALITY. We are aware that language alone does not suffice.
Too many systems expand in direct proportion to their insistence on the
dogma of their WORD. TOPY's method is to cut up the word, cut up
behaviour - to find meaning beyond the parameters of Control. To
re-connect at the source - our "spirit".

Therefore, it is not a religion, not a cult. We have no use for gods,
devils, "instruction". We have nothing to fall back on but that which is
in us.  Everything we see is ourselves. TOPY is, in the best sense of
the word, a movement. The movement, the process, being continual and at
various levels simultaneously - spotting the lies, the disjunction
between socialised "givens" and our dreams, our real potential -
deciding to commit oneself to re-connecting with one's potential - and
doing. We have many "people" within each one of us - we want them all.

This is expressed in our ritual and all our manifestations. Our network
- our mutual experience and searching of TOPY.

The maturity of man/woman - that means to have reacquired the
seriousness that one had as a child at play. (Nietzsche)

Vide infra (SSOTBME)

As explained at some length in the Grey Book, the Temple's initial and
root method is the recognition and utilisation of our true sexuality -
the invocation of primal sexual energies latent in the subconscious. The
concept of "sexual energy" is, for the Temple, interchangeable with
"psychic energy".  Sex is the medium for magick - the frequency of
truth. The sigil is its practice, the keystone.

...the significance of sexuality must be extended to embrace Reality, or
that which endures after all else fades... (Kenneth Grant)

In a very real way our sexuality is interactive with our behaviour as a
whole. With the Temple Method we cut up traditional sexual behaviour in
order to release the New Sexuality - new because it is everchanging,
ever regenerating. Thus liberating our real sexuality (everybody - every
man and woman is  a man and woman), we liberate our behaviour away from
Control.  We seek to deprogramme ourselves from harmful internalised
alienating stereotypes. "Control begins with sexuality" (TOPY). We seek
to reacquire the seriousness and curiosity that we had as children, to
observe and act without guilt/fear. If there is one simple description
of TOPY, it is that every involved Individual recognises the need to
overcome GUILT and FEAR of DARING TO BE. We "see below" in order to
"rise up".

New sexuality - ever youthful.

***********************

Jung saw symbols as "libido analogues", capable of transforming energy.
A representation channels libido (psychic/sexual energy) into new form
-invokes ever renewed potential. Symbols in themselves represent NO
SEPARATION. That is, the Psychic cross is a total synthesis of all we
2881

think of and mean by the Temple. For express purposes, and certain
time-zones, some of its components can be isolated, but ultimately there
is no separation.  It exists of itself: the characteristic of all living
symbols.

Because the Psychick Cross has many "personalities", a multiplicity of
explanations, it is an ideal symbol for TOPY. Various significances have
been pointed our: the single vertical line as the Individual, bottom
horizontal as Past, middle horizontal as Present, top as Future. The
Cross of Jesus and the inverted Cross of Satan combined. A television
aerial. The alchemical symbol "very poisonous".

"We didn't choose it so much as the symbol chose us." A symbol of
disenchantment, uncertainty and challenge/change.

The point of all this is that, like a true Individual, it cannot be
pinned down.

Neither - Neither.

The Psychick Cross also incorporates the 23 mythology. The number 23 is
total neither-neither territory (Austin Osman Spare's mindfuck technique
- comparing opposites separate, together, then absent).

(But of course it isn't. It is just a number like any other, 22 before
it, 24 after, surely?) Except that 23, for us, seems to behave very
strangely. It has become a snake in the grass of reason. Thus the
exception; for the Temple always the exception. The Individual. Every
man and woman is a 23.

"A presence, neither good luck or bad luck, it seemed to have some sort
of control over its appearance." Like the Psychick Cross, 23 has been
isolated to symbolise certain concepts, random chance, Crowley's GET
OUT, Burroughs' total cut-up, Robert Anton Wilson's total paranoia
symbol. Its "common" (!)  significance is its provocativeness, its
individuality, however one wishes to depict it. So, OK, you have your
cynicism, you may remain unconvinced, may not recognise TOPY, you see
everywhere human weakness and self-interest - but the next step is to
realise that cynicism is not a total answer, that the facade/shell of
ego/"cool"/style can, and must be, discarded before we grow once more
and enter a new "time zone" of evolution. Drop your shield, be vul-
nerable, thee wound is the reminder, you cannot remain untouched, so
touch yourself.

Enter the Combat Zone. The Temple has declared war. It does not do so
lightly.

T.O.P.Y. is an energy, fuelled with fiery Individuals who want change.
Change. People are too hung up with sex, with getting things done, so
they mess up. No-one cares anymore. To become rewarded is to give. And
to give is contagious, to create synergism.

The Self is who I am after, yet I cannot find her until I give her away,
and watch her without from within; then I can go. Egos are selfish and
jealous - to reverse the Ego is to open the mind; to be curious; to
recognise, to understand, to commit. Without altering the Ego one cannot
undergo the process. E to 3.

2882

I am curious. Curious and willing to learn. Tell me what I could do for
the group that would help me. Not really help, but INlighten. For we are
all out for INlightenment, for each one of us, ourselves, and for the
whole. First know to be yourself, then to help the group, then to know
you ARE your self.

For me I cannot "When in doubt - BE EXTREME"
Right now it's "When in doubt - Do Nothing"
I am curious Right Now.

CROSS!

Life is mediated by symbols. Symbols that steal. Numerical symbols that
steal our intelligence. Word symbols that steal our voice. Pornographic
symbols that steal our sexuality. Magical symbols that steal our will.
A death on your symbols. Let each kill themselves.

The Psychick Cross is a symbol that represents the idea of "without
Symbols". It is the first entry in a dictionary of the future Meta-symb-
olical language, a language of no-thought.

T.O.P.Y. is directed anger (which in itself is only Love). A foundation
set up to compile this "dictionary" which all WEs will need in order to
survive. A clearing house of symbols.

When ever you dis-cover stamp on a Psychick Cross. This release it for
our use.

---------------------------------------------

The Temple Ov Psychick Youth is an organisation that has been created to
further the ideas and feelings of those who feel that they have
something to contribute to the running of society. The Temple involves
a large scope of feelings and images that are connected to each other by
the potency of their own desires.

Firstly, the Temple as an organisation is created for those who feel and
believe that they can increase their own potential in body and mind by
pushing themselves to the limit of their durability, and do so in such
a way that they can find the limitations of their own body as well as
finding how far they can really go in producing a perfect understanding
of themselves.  Unlike other creations, the Temple does not try to
coerce of push an Individual into doing what "it" wants them to do - the
contrary is true, the Temple encourages the individual to think and act
for themselves, perhaps offering gentle instruction as an aid to
success. The Temple remains as a haven for help where friends are
guaranteed. A spiritual as well as physical father. By involving oneself
with the Temple you find that the trappings of an autocratic society are
handcuffs to the spirit, holding you in place, disabling a mind,
disallowing it to think and act for itself - laying down rigid rules
that must be adhered to. The Temple, conversely, encourages us that
we need no regimented rules to survive, all we need is to expend a
minimal amount of consideration for our fellow people, to accept
differences in colour, ideas, sexuality, etc. Falling (sic), the rules
of our wonderful and enlightened society has led to nothing but war, man
killing man; religion playing a large part in the reasons for war.
Religion is another point that the Temple puts across. It shows us the
trivialities in religion be it Christian or Hindu. The idea of believing
2883

in a spiritual god - how abhorrent. It insults the intelligence to have
god and jesus rammed down our throats - Crass put my feelings very well
when they said Jesus died for his own sins, no mine. Religion is an
easy way for a frightened people to hide behind the eventuality of their
own death - it's okay, we will be going to a better life - what a joke.
The only temple/god we should worship is our own bodies - any sacrament
to be given should be exercise of the mind and body. Prayer should be an
introspective look into your own feelings.

The Psychick Cross is a symbol that is easily recognisable - and
therefore a medium through which publicity can be shown. Unlike the
"cross" the psychick cross is a very strong image of ideals, and shows
a firm belief in what we feel the Temple stands for; I know that when
people see the cross on my clothes - be it badges, t-shirts - and they
ask what it stands for, they will always associate it with the Temple as
well as Psychic TV. The strength of its images remains in the
subconscious, therefore leading to easy recognition.

The Temple roots its beliefs in magic where sexuality and mental
strength have always played an important role. This world is inhibited
by its narrow-mindedness of sexuality. The Temple shows us that we
should not be embarrassed by it, nor inhibited by it. This does not
necessarily mean infidelity, or polygamous behaviour. Free Love can be
practised between two individuals involved in a close relationship
because the restraints of society are prevalent in marriage etc. It
encourages us to be free - the most important aim for all humans - to be
rid of a repressive society and to develop together with no feelings of
materialism.

Although society is against us, too many people are unable to stand up
for themselves, they allow themselves to be carried along without
stating how they wish things should be done. If we work hard enough
though, perhaps one day we will have a world where at least the ideas of
the Temple are practised, even if they are disconnected from the actual
force and developer of those ideas.

---------------------------------------------

The Temple is a group of people who together, and individually, work to
combat any form of personal restriction. Quite simply we want to make
our dreams, and those of everyone else, come true.

We work on three levels, or ratios. On the first level we examine our
real selves, discovering our dreams, our potential, our REAL selves. We
then try to live our lives, realising our dreams and making the most of
what we have to offer (skills, abilities, etc...), thus following (to
use a rather archaic term) our destiny. Once an initiate begins to work
on this ratio, he/she has a chance to take joint control of the helm.
The Temple is constantly evolving: each initiate has the chance to help
dictate the direction of that evolution. In the 3rd ratio we work to try
and improve the world in which we live. At this level we try to act as
an evolutionary goad, pushing mankind back on course.

We realise that the only way of achieving anything is to help one
another. So whenever we can we donate time, money, ideas and skills to
T.O.P.Y. We receive no reward for this: no medals, no "I raised $100"
selling t-shirts. The reward is the knowledge that we have helped
someone else to realise their dreams.
2884

We are an international group, with bases in the UK, Holland, Germany,
Sweden, Canada and America.

As is obvious ("Temple" & "Psychick") we are metaphysically minded. Many
of our methods could be considered magickal. Magick is merely a
technique for helping us negate the effects of restriction and control;
and live (again that rather naff word) destiny. We are constantly
developing and refining our own magick. We do not believe in any great
powerhouse in the sky, any gods, angels, demons, etc. We have realised
that the human brain is capable of much more than it is used for. Our
magick operates within the human nervous system - and works!

Our magickal techniques are a little too "technical" to go in to.
Suffice it to say that one of our main sources of energy is sexuality
and orgasms. Sex plays a very important role in our philosophy as the
energy obtained from it is tremendous. As was said earlier, we try to
"touch our real selves". Our first stepping stone to this is the removal
of restriction placed on our sexuality by society. Once a month, or
more, an initiate performs a simple magickal exercise which is designed
to bring him/her closer to his or her real sexuality - as experienced in
sexual fantasies. There should be no holds on sex, one should be able to
enjoy sex in whatever way one, and one's partner(s), want to.

Our symbol, logo, emblem or whatever - the Psychick Cross - contains a
great deal of symbolism. The most obvious facets are: 1, it is the
reverse of the Papal Cross, thus making it an anti-papal cross; 2, it is
an "E" for Ego, backed with a reversed "E", thus representing the
negation of the Ego's role over the human mind.

In many systems of magick numbers are said to have meanings. 23 has
many meanings all of which are applicable to the Temple: Initiation;
Union of Fire and Water (symbols of male and female) - sex; Integration
of all levels of consciousness.

I first heard of T.O.P.Y. through the drunken ramblings of someone I now
find it impossible to describe. At the time "Godstar" boomed from his
room almost constantly. After this, a friend lent me "Dreams Less
Sweet". I bought a few records, sent off for some literature.

Previously, I had dabbled with THELEMA, which seemed to ask the right
questions, but gave the wrong answers. T.O.P.Y. seemed to ask equally
pertinent questions (and sometimes more so), and answered them with
nothing but Hagbard Celine's "Think for yourself Schmuck". As time went
on I became increasingly interested in, and in agreement with, the
Temple's ideas.

At last a decent magickal system. No more silly Kabbalistic rituals.
Simple, straightforward, and functional. A chance to help, however
little, however much. Perhaps even to meet people who've got better
things on their mind than taking the piss.

---------------------------------------------

The Temple is an international group of people who want to improve the
quality of not only their own lives, but of everybody. We have realised
that the life of the average person lacks direction and meaning. Human
beings are persuaded, by various methods, to do what they are told,
however subtly, rather than what they really want. Some realise this and
2885

"drop out", hiding the world behind a beer can or a line of coke; others
try to change the world.  We are in the latter group. We try to do
nothing unless we really want to.  We try to differentiate between
"pretend" desires programmed into us by society, and our true wishes. We
then try to live these true desires. That is what real freedom is. Our
method is, I believe, the most powerful. We use magick; not card tricks
or turning princes into frogs; but real magick (that's what the "k" on
the end signifies), which is a method of programming your own mind to do
what you want it to do. We use sex as a tool for elevating the mind in
much of our magick. Sex is one of our basic needs. It is also the most
powerful force we have access to.

---------------------------------------------

What attracted you to T.O.P.Y.?

The systematic use ov will power to make dreams become real. The
undogmatic appreciation ov the inherent potentials ov thee Individual
who wants to see and is not afraid to invest energy in finding their
true self, their true desires, and to act accordingly. Furthermore, the
new approach to Magick: a demystified system ov practical techniques to
extend the perception and skill ov acting consciously according to one's
own nature without guilt.

In what ways has T.O.P.Y. failed to live up to your expectations so far?

I see T.O.P.Y. as an active forum/expression/output ov thee assembled
energy ov its members. I consider myself taking part in thee process and
don't feel that thee organ has failed to live up to my expectations as
they are identical with thee expectations I have for myself in life. I
apply T.O.P.Y. in my life according to my own interpretation and accept
no dogmaa, and as long as I feel that my intentions coincide with
T.O.P.Y. and that its structure is based on mutual appreciation/trust/-
respect/challenge/communication then I invest energy in this forum. I am
curious/open-minded by nature. In thee course ov time and involvement
much is explained. I have no fear.

Explain T.O.P.Y.

Through education, school, inherited dogmatic value systems, TV, radio,
written/spoken propaganda people are continously deprived ov their self
respect as unique manifold human Individuals. We are systematically
discouraged by thee keepers ov addicts to Control from exploring our
real physical and mental needs and potentials. We are exposed to
constant programming, its main aim being streamlining ov thought into
unquestioned acceptance ov illusory satisfaction, leaving an unlocated
feeling ov frustration behind. Fear is the Key to Control/Manipulation.
Thee fear ov change/thee unknown/thee unsecure/thee unfamiliar - all
these block thee Individual longing for development/experience and make
him/her accept thee vast offer ov surrogates and substitutes in today's
world system. Those who are not contented with this pseudo-reality seek
other ways for deeper knowledge/realisation ov dreams, and create their
own forum/access point for mutual encouragement/support/challenge ov
individuality and will.

We are history, thee sum ov our ancestors. If we ignore our own history
and its impact on our lives, we are inclined to repeat thee pitfalls and
disasters ov previous generations. We dig our own graves as culture.
2886

Christianity has monopolised thee European thought system and thee use
ov ancient methods/rituals as a means ov recollecting force, and has
deformed its intentions to thee point where they lose every form ov
potence and sense while being refunctioned to "evil/dangerous mys-
ticism/occultism".

Ritual as Access Point to thee inner regions ov thee mind and focus ov
will into conscious action. . .thee threat to status quo in thee present
socio-political and cultural world-system. A society deprived ov its
history/past is a society deprived ov its future and identity.

Sex is thee primal key to thee mental system ov a person. It is thee
nucleus ov their own past, present, and future. In thee moment ov orgasm
thee brain is for a short period ov time thrown out ov/disconnected from
its subconsciously socialised/adapted thought-system. In this moment ov
disconnection thee brain is highly susceptible to new information.
Orgasm is thee Access Point ov de- and re-programming ov thee mind.
Storage ov subconscious information - thee seed to conscious action.
Attack on subconsciousness determines thee overflow to consciousness
latently transformed into concrete action.

Education/indoctrination has trimmed our minds in thee course ov a life-
time to fit thee demands/needs ov thee control units in society. We see
continuous re-education as a necessity in order to develop. Ritual
strengthens our determination to find and do our true selves and to
cross new borders ov knowledge and understanding, to avoid thee
obstacles to thee realisation ov our dreams. Through self-decided
"indoctrination/dedoctrination" ov thee subconscious mind we avoid daily
pitfalls in mental laziness and cowardice/compromise. Free sexuality
without guilt liberates our mind from inherent blocking mechanisms
between consciousness. Free flow ov information between thee brain
hemispheres brightens our eyes, makes us clear, strong and real.

23: Number ov "Coincidence" - thee genes in thee human being consist ov
23 chromosomes, blood needs 23 seconds to cross thee human body. A sign
ov life and death, its correlation and its unknown dimensions. Death/-
mortality - thee ultimate reference point for each human being. To live
fully without regrets or not. We are mortal. Here and Now.

Christians have their Cross - fetish ov guilt and shame. Christ on thee
Cross - symbol ov martyrdom/sacrifice for thee sinfulness ov thee human
race.  Unworthy, godless slaves.

We repudiate - have our own fetish/symbol for thee immense possibilities
and dimensions ov thee human mind and vessel in life. Thee Psychick
Cross - an alchemical symbol for (magickally) dangerous material/know-
ledge. Thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth is "danger" to dogmatic/streamlined
thought, that is to thee stability/status quo in present society/cul-
ture: thee seed to a new science/way ov living.

Magick: a system ov Will Made Flesh. We focus our will in collective
ritual across thee world on thee 23rd ov each month, and programme/-
tune-in our mutual wavelengths/sexual desires in thee moment ov orgasm.
Our will-power programmed in thee genes and assembled in thee liquids ov
semen/lubricant/blood/spit, and hair.

Thee features ov thee embryo is decided/determined through thee thoughts
ov sexual partners during coitus. Thought made Flesh. Will made Real.
2887

T.O.P.Y. Made Real.

---------------------------------------------

In answer to a cynical journalist:

Most people can't stomach the "missionary zeal", so to speak, so any
mention of a "Great Crusade to save The World" is right out of the
window. The Temple is there for those who want it - it isn't another
banal ideology, but a network of Individual interests where information
is relayed to one another on the basis of practical experience. You've
heard of synergy: the working together of two or more elements to create
an effect greater that the sum of the individual elements' output. Well
that's us! We support one another by our own efforts - like a latter-day
tribe.

What impels a person to work within the Temple? A dissatisfaction with
current societal values, perhaps. An awareness of possibilities within
ourselves that most recognised institutions of society, religious or
otherwise, either flatly deny or appear reluctant to expand upon. (As
social beings we have an inner need to express ourselves amongst friends
- interpreting "friends" as those people who can relate to you!) All
such answers seem a bit "rhetorical" to me, so we might gain a better
understanding of the "attraction" of T.O.P.Y. by taking a brief look at
the ideas and methods it collectively presents.

We take a very broad view - limitlessly so - of the means at our
disposal towards self-development. Jung called it individuation.
Aleister Crowley called it the realisation of the True Will. You may
call it simply "Maturity".  From the lore of Magic (a much scoffed at
notion, superficially, in our high-tech rationalistic era; but isn't our
science the highest magic to a so-called primitive? And what arrogance
you have to deny the function of something you know nothing about,
despite its overwhelming history of practice?!), to music, to martial
art; if the perceptive individual thinks there is something worth
picking up on, we will attempt to pluck it out of the mire and use it!
That is why T.O.P.Y. is often seen in the "public eye" to "wallow
morbidly" in social taboos; or however else they choose to put it.
Life's too short and wonderful to run away from and/or wrap up in
unnecessary prohibitions/superstitions. So, cut out the crap! The Temple
brings together people who aren't afraid to try a little. The luxuries
of Western "civilisation" (loud laughter) also bring greater excuses for
us to get very lazy.

(The notion of forced commitment, street-corner proselytizing, I find
repulsive. We emphasise, more than anything else, the power and
cretiveness of the individual will; how that feeling can be shared
through communication and care. To force others to "join in" would
defeat the purpose of the network. How can I force you to be yourself?
[eg. forcing another to emulate my thoughts & feelings is no freedom for
the other person.] What the fucks the point? We can only provide
inspiration - no greedy Gurus infest this House.)

Why do I think T.O.P.Y. is important? Could answer that in several ways
I suppose. The workings of the Temple are not always to my liking, but
then, as a network with some degree of structuring/organisation, what
else do you expect? Humanity has yet to invent a machine that is 100%
efficient. And involvement with T.O.P.Y. does NOT mean you go along with
2888

every suggestion that's put forward. In terms of energy, feedback and so
on, you reap what you sow; just as with any human relationship (I use
that analogy quite intentionally). Anyway, I feel it is important
because - in an age of much insincerity - T.O.P.Y. is rooted in what I
ultimately recognise as COMMON SENSE. We seek to embrace the earthly
human condition, warts and all. We look at ourselves and recognise the
need to strive for personal goals; expand our often blinkered definition
of "self" by trying to utilise the new and the strange; experiment,
instead of wallowing in the "fear of the unknown"; reject dogma, reject
guilt, reject anything that leads to unnecessary anxiety - not by
pushing things to the side, but by confrontation. (The quickest route
between two points is a straight line.) Such ideas, although expressed
a little dogmatically here for the sake of brevity, outline a healthy,
strong approach to living. And it feels very refreshing to be amongst
friends who won't try to fob you off with more alienating politics or
mystical pap.

No, my involvement with T.O.P.Y. has not equipped me with easy panaceas
for the problem of Government, etc. We live in a complex environment -
I am the first to admit it. T.O.P.Y. has no manifesto up its collective
sleeve.  Rather, we consider the situation from the perspective of "To
change the World you must first change yourself." It is no use disban-
ding the police-force tomorrow if they are all going to continue acting
in the same way to the people they picked on before!

(To amuse myself, I might describe involvement in the Temple as a course
in psychic self-defense for the outsider! But then you'd probably take
that the wrong way. The Temple is NOT a cheap sort of psychotherapy; no
psychic prescriptions from Doc P-Orridge, or anybody ridiculous like
that. Nobody involved in the network wishes to suffer fools gladly, and
the only people "assessed" are ourselves - BY OURSELVES. A little
eccentricity leads to a progression of ideas - stupidity does not! And
you must ultimately deal with your own problems, if you wish to reclaim
personal responsibility at all - a belief that is central to T.O.P.Y.
philosophy.)

Why the big profile on Sex in T.O.P.Y.? The fact that you feel our "high
profile" needs to be mentioned may provide part of the answer! As I have
already tried to indicate, the Temple strives to eliminate our (often
culturally inherited) feelings of guilt. We consider sexual energy to be
of great importance - its free expression is our very birthright, in
whatever way our nature inclines. The neuroses and psychosomatic
ailments resulting from high levels of sexual repression have been
catalogued well enough by now, without me having to re-iterate the
point. And guilt about one's personal sexual activities can be used as
a potent weapon in the hands of your adversaries - just look at the
gutter press. Sexuality is just that - whether it be expressed in
"fetishism", "homosexual" activity (a horrible, clinical expression if
ever I heard one), and so on. It's nobody's business but your own.

Having said that, it is obvious that many people - particularly the
younger - pursue an active sex life without recourse to massive guilt!
So why all the hypocrisy about its public expression? Why the hassle?
Evidently, the mass media does not reflect an accurate - honest -
picture of our feelings. The Sunday Sport continues to make sex and
sexuality an absurdity - something to sneer at. We wonder why.

T.O.P.Y. wishes to take sexuality a step further by investigating the
2889

powers we consider to be generated by sexual activity, so that they can
be used for the benifit of the individual. Every Individual. Orgasm has
a powerful effect on one's perception, body chemistry, bio-electric
field, etc., if only for a few moments. And we feel that the state of
being created can be put to use, in combination with intense desire.
Again, we are entering the arena of "magick" and ritual (all sex is
ritual); we are considering the so-called dark side of nature, and to a
TV generation brought up on Dennis Wheatley films, such ideas seem very
taboo. We wish to break down those superstitions - we have little room
for fear in such speculative areas - but we have no vested interest in
people agreeing with our aims and methods. (We are not out to harm
anybody, so please remain sensible and leave us be if you are scep-
tical/unimpressed.)

Of course you can't discuss sex without mentioning AIDS nowadays. To
counter popular misconceptions let it be stressed that the Temple does
NOT encourage orgiastic or promiscuous behaviour - forced promiscuity to
prove one's "liberation" is just a stupid and damaging as exaggerated
pruder; if it goes against your natural inclinations. I suggest you use
your common-sense and exercise responsibility. But, to give an example:
should someone attracted to their own sex no longer feel attracted
because circumstances dictate a certain degree of caution with the
choice of partners? We think not.  Circumstances and the means of your
natural indulgence may vary quite a bit, but the right to "be and feel"
whatever you are does not. This must be kept in mind, as the puritans
cry out for "conformity" yet again. . .

---------------------------------------------

Thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth, we are united, united in the differences
that constitute our individuality. At one stage or another all ov us had
reached the same crossroad. The roads were clearly marked - conformity,
control, suburbia, soap and no hope. The general flat planes that lead
to a hollow, wasted death. Instead, we deliberately leave the roads to
travel cross-country - to aim for the high mountains on the horizon.
There are no clearly visible signposts, no neatly maintained roads and
no resting points. The undergrowth can be extremely dense, the in-
habitants hostile and the speed of travel tiresomely slow. But etched on
the horizon, amongst the loftiest of mountains is a Psychick Cross. We
move onwards and upwards. This is the way of T.O.P.Y.

To travel with T.O.P.Y. is to map out your own route, to cross virgin
territory, often alone. You discover you pace, your own dreams of the
goal. Discovering your own philosophy of life, but instead of preaching
it you live it, and live it to the full. We may travel alone, but we
obtain strength that elsewhere in the wilderness others are planning and
travelling their own routes to the same goal. We may rendezvous, by
chance or by desire. We can then share, relate our travels and exchange
maps for we know that to fulfill our life we must help fulfill others:
open their eyes, let them help us open ours. Share our results and
tactics and help to change the maps of old. To lay new paths and roads
and satisfy the discontentments of society and its expectations and
limitations of an individual.

It is every person's basic right and task to be as they will, as they
truly will.  The study is long and hard to find this will. Total
self-honesty is needed. The ability to touch oneself, no less. T.O.P.Y.
will encourage, suggest ways of touching at all levels and of all 
2890

aspects, by using rituals and intuitive magickal methods specifically
aimed at getting closer to oneself. To integrate all the different
levels and aspects to develop a total, free individual.

T.O.P.Y. realises that every man and woman has their own potential to
achieve and live by. This can vary greatly within individuals but this
is the key because each individual's achievements are relative to only
that one person's potential. There is no competitive hierarchy as that
would serve only to stifle development. Each individual must ultimately
justify their every motive, action and belief to themselves. If they
achieve this then they are allowing T.O.P.Y. to achieve itself. It
cannot work in reverse. It can be hard. To start to truly look at
yourself can hurt. Strength, honesty and commitment are needed to move
towards T.O.P.Y. Sexuality is a key as within sexuality the restrictions
and constrictions of society and its controls can bite the hardest. To
liberate and understand one's own sexuality is to liberate and under-
stand T.O.P.Y. An individual who has learnt to express themselves
sexually can then use the lessons learnt here to inspire freedom
and development in other aspects of their person. Your sex and sexuality
belong to yourself. The energies it generates all come from within your
psyche. At the peak of sex the doors open, the barriers collapse and
there is no separation. The interchange between conscious and "sub"-con-
scious is complete. Using controlled focusing at this magickal time,
T.O.P.Y. individuals can make a conscious desire to move to the higher
levels of their own consciousness where it can take effect and help the
dreams become real. By truly understanding this process and tailoring it
to an individual's methods, breakthrough can be reached and you have
given yourself back to yourself.

These methods of sexual focusing provide the basis of T.O.P.Y. workings.
The results achieved here by the individual filter down through all
levels, all actions, all motives. All comes from within the individual.

T.O.P.Y. has a psychick symbol and a psychick number. Both of these are
woven deeply into the sub-structure. Both act as a focus, as a synthesis
of beliefs and actions; as a trigger. The Psychick Cross with its
horizontal arms in the ratio of 2 to 3 can be interpreted on many
levels: to signify the individual (the vertical line) with his/her past
(bottom line), present (middle) and future (top); a symbol of integ-
ration between opposing functions within an individual of T.O.P.Y. (3
E). The arms flow outwards from the Cross to symbolise growth and
discovery whilst at the same time they all draw inwards to focus and
synthesize this growth within the individual. A cross to sacrifice the
self upon; a uniform symbol to identify with, but like T.O.P.Y. itself
to be interpreted in different ways by different individuals.

The magickal number 23 is interwoven throughout T.O.P.Y. It is the point
of focus, to integrate, to dissolve. A time, a time for work, a date to
complete a task 23 times is to see it move deep within the conscious-
ness. A number that's history is proven and potent, one that occurs
internationally,irrationally and totally naturally. Like the Psychick
Cross, indeed like T.O.P.Y., 23 is the gateway, the crossover point to
internal focus and development and external flowering.

When there is no other way.

T.O.P.Y.

2891

~ Thoughts on The Temple ~

The Temple Ov Psychick Youth is a body of like-minded, ageless souls all
striving in an individual manner towards a collective goal: a guiltless
state of self-awareness.

The exploration of our innermost desires by the release of the sexual
spirit, and thus the freeing of our emotions of dogma and external
control, is fundamental to the process by which the Temple achieves its
collective identity. The process is a deeply personal voyage of
discovery (the very fact of the emphasis of the individual testifies to
this), one in which the Temple acts as a guiding light, a processor of
information and its re-direction.  

"No Man is an Island", and for this reason the Temple is both needed for
support in our battle, and as a focus for the support we ourselves can
offer.  Its sum being greater than the parts, the Temple serves as a
sounding board for ideas, provoking thought which may under other
circumstances never have been given the right "culture" in which to form
and grow. Thus the Temple is a growing, living organism whose form is a
result of the collection of "cells" within it, as in any biological
organism. The analogy with the natural world is of direct significance.
All life operates within a set environment or eco-system, but its very
presence is an integral part of that system. If any one species grows it
is at the cost of another, and if any "external force" is introduced the
balance can be forever altered with the possibility of collapse (eg:
Rainforests). The Temple is such a force, one which could ultimately
over-turn the preconceived ideas of our Western society.  This may seem
to many to be a fanciful argument, but to those who mock I would say,
"how small is a virus or cancer cell that can cause the collapse of an
organism."

We may be small, but we are growing to attack like a cancer from within!

We must stand together, we must fight!

~ On criticism of the Temple ~

How can you criticize an organisation which makes statements such as ".
. .
we support your individuality", "we offer no dogma", and talks of "de-
programming". These are some of the most important statements mady by
T.O.P.Y., and show the principal aims of the Temple: the realisation of
YOURSELF, which results in SELFLESSNESS in the most positive way - no
greed, no sex barriers, no age barriers, no race barriers. . . .etc.

The ultimate goal of LOVE and escape from the prison of 20th Century
(especially western) ideas and values. DON'T WE ALL FEEL THE SAME? Thee
Temple gives no orders, it gives a method through books, records, states
of mind to a form of enlightenment. "You must understand 'til it hurts.
The mind must be stretched to include emotions, thoughts and points of
view entirely foreign to the narrow limits of our present life." (quote
from "Zen" by Christmas Humphreys) To me, the Temple is about THINKING
and trying to spread this FREEDOM.

SEXUALITY: This I am only myself realising at the moment - NO GUILT. We
see it on T.V. every day: twisted sex values - TURN IT OFF! I can't find

2892

the right words to use about my sigil experiences but I feel re-charged,
focused, powerful, aware.

THEE PSYCHICK CROSS: This to me forms a kind of focus (not in a fearful,
religious sense) and is a common ground and understandable sign to those
involved within T.O.P.Y.

23: This to me is Kammerer's Law of Seriality. The natural rhythms,
patterns, harmonies in all the universe. It is an expression of this
belief of the unexplored forces that act upon us.

---------------------------------------------

I can relate to what the Temple Ov Psychick Youth is trying to do
because we are all living in a world where chaos reigns. The Western
World has been under the dogma of religion, Catholic and Protestant, for
the last five hundred years. And its teachings, far removed from the
original message, have beenused to control the masses and to shape
humanity's moral codes.

So today we have people wanting to have spiritual freedom, but who
because of the age-old brain washing of God and the Devil, and good and
evil, find it hard. Even worse, most people in our society have to
unlearn and begin at thee beginning about their relationship with life,
the universe and everything in it; and they generally start looking
within themselves for their answers. I personally think that Chris-
tianity is on its last legs, as its churches are full of middle-aged and
old people, but not young people. So there are many who are searching
for spiritual freedom, and a truer relationship with life. The Temple Ov
Psychick Youth provides a means and a way for people to break free and
rise above the lie of society. Because magick, witchcraft are keys that
unlock many of life's closed doors, and enable individuals to explore
and develop themselves on all planes of life, from spiritual to
physical.

Nothing in life is easy, and magick is not an escape. As with all life
you have to give of yourself to receive, and giving of yourself means a
sacrifice of time and effort which is a hard lesson for many an aspiring
occultist. So through contact with open groups like T.O.P.Y.,
individuals can meet other people with similar ideals in life.

Obviously people will have to face moral principles such as sexual
Magick (tantric yoga) and other methods used in ritual magick to raise
the power, but this is something they learn naturally and not unnatur-
ally as the rest of society still thinks and believes. They have to
learn that they themselves create or destroy what life presents before
them, not God or the Devil, and thus having learnt go forth into a new
world of gods. After all, evil is essentially misplaced energy (un-
natural). So things like sex, and all pleasurable activity so long as it
be done with free will, are healthy for us in life.

This last point is another reason why I agree with T.O.P.Y.'s ideals:
because they encourage people to be free within themselves, and to
discover their own true wills.

As A/C puts it: Do What Thou Wilt Shall Be The Whole Of The Law.
Love Is The Law, Love Under Will.

2893

My interpretation of T.O.P.Y. is that of the propagation of unlimited
expression and potential. Also, that of the freeing of world technology
and communication from the restraints of generally restrictive,
authoritarian value-systems. The Temple, to me, has the potential to
both examine and free the latency of both physical and psychical
potential.

I would like to take part in a world-deprogramming task, and experience
the worthiness of my own full powers, in all their comparitive spheres.

These thoughts encompass my attitudes towards sexuality (in both its
drive and visionary factors) and also my movement towards a cooperative
methodology.

---------------------------------------------

What is Thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth?

To me, ultimately a special state ov mind - the place where all dreams
meet.  The place you know exists but are afraid to admit it. A secret
place, timeless, sexual, a magick place open to all. Have you never felt
so alive, happy, sexual that you want to live forever? Or are you lost,
scared or just too pissed off to care. T.O.P.Y. can help you find your
real self and you can help T.O.P.Y. in the process. By helping and
caring and coummitment to T.O.P.Y. the same energy is given back. Love
is not a dirty word, helping people is not wrong. For society to change,
people must change. People must see what is happening all around them.
People must be given information about sigils, dreamachines, magick.
People must be pro-sexual, have respect and caring for everybody.
What is wrong with being happy, alive, caring? So reject money - I'm on
16K a year, smart mate but who's interested. I'm a Man City fan - You're
dead.  (Fighting for a football team, strange.) This jumper cost $60.
(Very smart, but does it make you really feel better inside.)

In these times ov one-upmanship why not join the ultimate game and play
for your life and make history as well.

---------------------------------------------

Thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth acts as a focal point, a sigil to thee
Will. It can provide thee FORM about which thee FUNCTION ov Thee SELF
can be wrapped. Thee act ov focusing releases tremendous energy which
Thee Temple, as a concourse, forms into a flow ov energy. As a concept
it sparks off Individual activity and through thee Image ov Thee SIGIL
it channels that energy into a creative outburst.

As a free form with a continuous flow ov unrestricted and unlimited
ideas it allows any Individual to develop a language to express what can
not be explained. Magick in its modern context is largely a question ov
interpreting a subjective reality in purely personal terms. This
requires a personal subjective language. Yet if society is to continue
- have any meaning - then it is precisely this that must be communi-
cated. A subjective reality can not be expressed in terms ov common
language, but only as a personal experience.  Thus thee only channel ov
communication open to us is to place our personal view within a common
framework. This in essence is what all communication is about. But most
ov our present belief is based on distortion. Our culture simply has not
got thee necessary tools to cope with thee present situation.  Our 
2894

cultural language is still based on thee rational universal world ov
thee past aeon. This will have to be swept aside before people can talk
to each other again.

The magickal number 23 is interwoven throughout T.O.P.Y. It is the point
of focus, to integrate, to dissolve. A time, a time for work, a date to
complete a task 23 times is to see it move deep within the conscious-
ness. A number that's history is proven and potent, one that occurs
internationally, irrationally and totally naturally. Like the Psychick
Cross, indeed like T.O.P.Y., 23 is the gateway, the crossover point to
internal focus and development and external flowering.

When there is no other way.

T.O.P.Y.

---------------------------------------------

~ Thoughts on The Temple ~

The Temple Ov Psychick Youth is a body of like-minded, ageless souls all
striving in an individual manner towards a collective goal: a guiltless
state of self-awareness.

The exploration of our innermost desires by the release of the sexual
spirit, and thus the freeing of our emotions of dogma and external
control, is fundamental to the process by which the Temple achieves its
collective identity. The process is a deeply personal voyage of
discovery (the very fact of the emphasis of the individual testifies to
this), one in which the Temple acts as a guiding light, a processor of
information and its re-direction.

"No Man is an Island", and for this reason the Temple is both needed for
support in our battle, and as a focus for the support we ourselves can
offer.  Its sum being greater than the parts, the Temple serves as a
sounding board for ideas, provoking thought which may under other
circumstances never have been given the right "culture" in which to form
and grow. Thus the Temple is a growing, living organism whose form is a
result of the collection of "cells" within it, as in any biological
organism. The analogy with the natural world is of direct significance.
All life operates within a set environment or eco-system, but its very
presence is an integral part of that system. If any one species grows it
is at the cost of another, and if any "external force" is introduced the
balance can be forever altered with the possibility of collapse (eg:
Rainforests). The Temple is such a force, one which could ultimately
over-turn the preconceived ideas of our Western society.  This may seem
to many to be a fanciful argument, but to those who mock I would say,
"how small is a virus or cancer cell that can cause the collapse of
an organism."

We may be small, but we are growing to attack like a cancer from within!

We must stand together, we must fight!

~ On criticism of the Temple ~

How can you criticize an organisation which makes statements such as ".
. . we support your individuality", "we offer no dogma", and talks of
2895

"de-programming". These are some of the most important statements mady
by T.O.P.Y., and show the principal aims of the Temple: the realisation
of YOURSELF, which results in SELFLESSNESS in the most positive way - no
greed, no sex barriers, no age barriers, no race barriers. . . .etc.

The ultimate goal of LOVE and escape from the prison of 20th Century
(especially western) ideas and values. DON'T WE ALL FEEL THE SAME? Thee
Temple gives no orders, it gives a method through books, records, states
of mind to a form of enlightenment. "You must understand 'til it hurts.
The mind must be stretched to include emotions, thoughts and points of
view entirely foreign to the narrow limits of our present life." (quote
from "Zen" by Christmas Humphreys) To me, the Temple is about THINKING
and trying to spread this FREEDOM.

SEXUALITY: This I am only myself realising at the moment - NO GUILT. We
see it on T.V. every day: twisted sex values - TURN IT OFF! I can't find
the right words to use about my sigil experiences but I feel re-charged,
focused, powerful, aware.

THEE PSYCHICK CROSS: This to me forms a kind of focus (not in a fearful,
religious sense) and is a common ground and understandable sign to those
involved within T.O.P.Y.

23: This to me is Kammerer's Law of Seriality. The natural rhythms,
patterns, harmonies in all the universe. It is an expression of this
belief of the unexplored forces that act upon us.

---------------------------------------------

I can relate to what the Temple Ov Psychick Youth is trying to do
because we are all living in a world where chaos reigns. The Western
World has been under the dogma of religion, Catholic and Protestant, for
the last five hundred years. And its teachings, far removed from the
original message, have beenused to control the masses and to shape
humanity's moral codes.

So today we have people wanting to have spiritual freedom, but who
because of the age-old brain washing of God and the Devil, and good and
evil, find it hard. Even worse, most people in our society have to
unlearn and begin at thee beginning about their relationship with life,
the universe and everything in it; and they generally start looking
within themselves for their answers. I personally think that Chris-
tianity is on its last legs, as its churches are full of middle-aged and
old people, but not young people. So there are many who are searching
for spiritual freedom, and a truer relationship with life. The Temple Ov
Psychick Youth provides a means and a way for people to break free and
rise above the lie of society. Because magick, witchcraft are keys that
unlock many of life's closed doors, and enable individuals to explore
and develop themselves on all planes of life, from spiritual to
physical.

Nothing in life is easy, and magick is not an escape. As with all life
you have to give of yourself to receive, and giving of yourself means a
sacrifice of time and effort which is a hard lesson for many an aspiring
occultist. So through contact with open groups like T.O.P.Y.,
individuals can meet other people with similar ideals in life.

Obviously people will have to face moral principles such as sexual 
2896

Magick (tantric yoga) and other methods used in ritual magick to raise
the power, but this is something they learn naturally and not unnatur-
ally as the rest of society still thinks and believes. They have to
learn that they themselves create or destroy what life presents before
them, not God or the Devil, and thus having learnt go forth into a new
world of gods. After all, evil is essentially misplaced energy (un-
natural). So things like sex, and all pleasurable activity so long as it
be done with free will, are healthy for us in life.

This last point is another reason why I agree with T.O.P.Y.'s ideals:
because they encourage people to be free within themselves, and to
discover their own true wills.

As A/C puts it: Do What Thou Wilt Shall Be The Whole Of The Law.
Love Is The Law, Love Under Will.

---------------------------------------------

My interpretation of T.O.P.Y. is that of the propagation of unlimited
expression and potential. Also, that of the freeing of world technology
and communication from the restraints of generally restrictive,
authoritarian value-systems. The Temple, to me, has the potential to
both examine and free the latency of both physical and psychical
potential.

I would like to take part in a world-deprogramming task, and experience
the worthiness of my own full powers, in all their comparitive spheres.

These thoughts encompass my attitudes towards sexuality (in both its
drive and visionary factors) and also my movement towards a cooperative
methodology.

---------------------------------------------

What is Thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth?

To me, ultimately a special state ov mind - the place where all dreams
meet.
The place you know exists but are afraid to admit it. A secret place,
timeless, sexual, a magick place open to all. Have you never felt so
alive, happy, sexual that you want to live forever? Or are you lost,
scared or just too pissed off to care. T.O.P.Y. can help you find your
real self and you can help T.O.P.Y. in the process. By helping and
caring and coummitment to T.O.P.Y. the same energy is given back. Love
is not a dirty word, helping people is not wrong. For society to change,
people must change. People must see what is happening all around them.
People must be given information about sigils, dreamachines, magick.
People must be pro-sexual, have respect and caring for everybody.
What is wrong with being happy, alive, caring? So reject money - I'm on
16K a year, smart mate but who's interested. I'm a Man City fan - You're
dead. (Fighting for a football team, strange.) This jumper cost $60.
(Very smart, but does it make you really feel better inside.)

In these times ov one-upmanship why not join the ultimate game and play
for your life and make history as well.

---------------------------------------------

2897

Thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth acts as a focal point, a sigil to thee
Will. It can provide thee FORM about which thee FUNCTION ov Thee SELF
can be wrapped. Thee act ov focusing releases tremendous energy which
Thee Temple, as a concourse, forms into a flow ov energy. As a concept
it sparks off Individual activity and through thee Image ov Thee SIGIL
it channels that energy into a creative outburst.

As a free form with a continuous flow ov unrestricted and unlimited
ideas it allows any Individual to develop a language to express what can
not be explained. Magick in its modern context is largely a question ov
interpreting a subjective reality in purely personal terms. This
requires a personal subjective language. Yet if society is to continue
- have any meaning - then it is precisely this that must be communi-
cated. A subjective reality can not be expressed in terms ov common
language, but only as a personal experience.  Thus thee only channel ov
communication open to us is to place our personal view within a common
framework. This in essence is what all communication is about. But most
ov our present belief is based on distortion. Our culture simply has not
got thee necessary tools to cope with thee present situation.  Our
cultural language is still based on thee rational universal world ov
thee past aeon. This will have to be swept aside before people can talk
to each other again.

Thee Temple as a focal point without a fixed system ov values begins
Thee Process. It provides a channel through which thee Individual can
view his/her circumstances from their own perspective. It sweeps past
thee outmoded views ov mass philosophy. Most importantly, by mutual
encouragement, Thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth gives me thee courage to
accept and trust my own view.

---------------------------------------------

Its aims on human freedom and independence
To inspiration individuality
Freedom in any dreams, in any wisches

Sexuality with no limitations so long as it is yours
sexuality to make you free of any restrictions
sexuality & Love the most successful drivepower for any dream & wisch
Love the power of all powers.

Methods of magic and philosophy from many individuals Psycho-levels of
the brain to help you in higher atomosphere's Methods from magic to
create your perfect atmosphere and to get closer to that one self
Methods look sometimes bizzare but are the ones who understand there are
no limitations, when you wanne reach exstacy-freedom OV 23 - That
moment, that day, that dream, that wisch, that freedom It all can come
true, OV 23 is one of those methods Lots of thoughts are feelings which
are not easy to explain May be when I have to represent a year later it
might be totally different, I learn every day more and more, it will
take lives.

-----------------------------------

Thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth is important because it is ACTIVE and
CARING. It intends to nudge people into an understanding of themselves,
into RESPECT for themselves. To Love themselves and their lives. It
intends to spur people into doing coumthing with their lives, being 
2898

ACTIVE. It gives people back to themselves along with the realisation
that they CAN get what they really deeply want and need. Their desires
can be made real. All it takes is effort and discipline.

For a few years now I have felt a deep hunger and frustration. There has
been a large gap in my life. It took me awhile to realise what this gap
was. A deep spiritual lack. There has never been any talk ov or
involvment with anything remotely spiritual during the whole of my
twenty years of existence. During Primary School it was required of the
whole class to stand up in thee mornings and say thee Lords Prayer. I
never ever believed in it.  It seemed totally absurd to me even then, I
don't really know why, but I never believed in "God". For seven years I
stood up and mouthed thee words of thee prayer. When I left at the age
of 12, if anyone asked me to recite thee words ov thee Lords Prayer I
couldn't do it! Seriously. I had never learned it and had wilfully
blocked it out. I objected out loud of course, oh no, that would result
in the belt. Little boys who don't say their prayers get pain as a
reward. It wasn't until I was about 19 that I found what I thought/think
might be thee answers. I have always been interested in thee unusual. In
everything. People. Books. Music. Art. Thee "Chaos ov thee Normal", thee
"Moronic Inferno". Fashion has never interested me. During childhood I
read mostly science fiction. Then came a period ov flux, ov
wandering, where I no longer was deeply "into" Sci-fi as before, but
couldn't find anything else. That was when I decided to buy "A William
Burroughs Reader" having heard him mentioned in numerous articles in
thee muzak press. Pages of wonderous images, surreal images, new ideas,
new methods.  This replenished my lust for thee innovative.

I used to go to an "Adult Training Centre" at night to help out at a
kind of social gathering of handicapped people. There was a small record
player, and a box of records. Sidney Devine, Elvis, Nana Mouscouri,
country and western, thee muzak ov my nightmares! Tucked neatly in
between two of these wreckords was an unimposing little single. It was
Just Drifting and was by Psychic TV. I asked if I could have it as I
wondered what they were like, having read reviews in thee press. As one
of our records had disappeared they said "Yes". That was how I dis-
covered PTV. It was a few years before I made enquiries into thee
Temple. This was made at thee same time as I found a possible solution
to my problem. I read a book called "Mysteries" by Colin Wilson. It was
thee most amazing book I had ever read. A whole new universe ov
possibilities opened up to me. I immediately developed a deep hunger for
knowledge. Not everyday knowledge. Knowledge ov this strange new world.
I went to thee library and read every occult book I could find.  A Whole
new worlds of meaning opened up.

Thee Temple seemed like an honest organisation. Not a brainwashing cult.
An "anti-cult". I didn't know (and still don't) just how much knowledge
it possessed. To make "the occult" a part of everyone's everyday lives,
now that was an interesting idea. A very good idea. An essential idea.
Ideas into action. Kick start evolution again.

To destroy tyranny and oppression. To bring joy back to living once
more. Love. Responsibility for actions. Interaction between Individuals
again, instead ov this total isolation that is becoming a hallmark ov
thee twentieth century.

Sex. To free sex from all fetters. To throw off guilt and all restric-
tions to pleasure. To make sex pure again. Between two Individuals. Not
2899

thee ignorant sexist, totally damaging view of a man fucking a woman.
Sex involves two people. Two active people (who may be active in their
passivity). To reclaim sexuality as our own. To be shared with who we
choose, however we choose. Thee magick ov sex. Thee new sexuality. To
choose ourSelves.

Thee Psychick Cross. Thee cross is thee union of opposites (0=2). Thee
top half has thee Christian Cross, thee bottom half has thee anti-Chris-
tian or Satanic Cross. Thee middle branch ties them together. Thee top
half mirrors thee bottom. As above so below. It is thee anti-Papal Cross
since thee middle branch is shorter than thee outer two, thee opposite
of thee Papal. It is a television aerial. It receives and transmits
information from and to every area ov life. Thee centre of thee
Information War. It is a focus for knowledge and understanding. It is
also thee face of thee Temple. Thee central line ov thee face along
which is arranged thee line of thee eyes at top, nose middle, and mouth
bottom. Thee three branches are mind, body, and spirit. There are three
crosses in thee Psychick Cross, not two.

23, in Crowley's system, is Water. Thee essential element ov life. Thee
great sea ov thee subconscious. Thee element that is always in flux,
forever changing. Change is stability. Water has three states (branches
on thee cross?). Water is the body and the mind. Just as the moon
affects the sea so does it affect mind and body. The brain is something
like 80% water after all.  23 is a mystery. It's just a number. It's
just the number ov rays from Sirius, The Sun behind the Sun. Thee star
of thee Dogon, those marvellous people. Thee symbol of Sirius is pretty
close to thee cross.

23 is synchronicity and recognition:

2+3=5      2x3 = 6      2/3 = .666

---------------------------------------------

Trying to explain my reason for my involvement with T.O.P.Y. is hard,
but to say I am searching for my inner strengths and weaknesses is as
good a one as any. To me T.O.P.Y. is doing more for thee couming
together ov people than any thing I know. They encourage thee sharing ov
ideas which to me is an important factor in knocking down life's walls.

To ask me thee meaning behind their aims, ideas, sexuality, methods,
thee meaning ov thee Psychick Cross, ov 23 would be an injustice to
T.O.P.Y. Their aim I believe to be more wakefulness in society, for
people to open up their eyes and see for themselves. Their ideas revolve
around Pagan philosophy and thee arts ov Magick which in a way takes on
all aspects ov Life. Methods are thee same in all new conceptions and
must be used to get thee message across. Sexuality is a beautiful thing
and should be treated in thee same way, free love must be forever in our
souls. Thee Psychick Cross is a symbol to symbolise all aspects ov
T.O.P.Y. ideals, they must be put up everywhere. Ov 23 I am stuck with
no true conclusion as to thee proper idea/ideas behind it, but to me it
stands out and crops up in thee weirdest ov situations and it is a JOY
to see it anywhere.

T.O.P.Y. is an inner door, a device for breaking down mental walls.
T.O.P.Y. can be pleasure with thee pain, thee garden ov eden and you are
Adam or Eve. Open thee eye to T.O.P.Y. and experience everything before
2900

it is too late.
---------------------------------------------

I feel no need to justify my interest or my sympathy. Those who reject
T.O.P.Y. reject themselves - and few want to face the truth. Each
individual must decide their own course, and as no-one is the same, so
no course is the same. Everyone responds and rejects or accepts
according to their own thoughts and feelings.

T.O.P.Y. offers an alternative to mass control, depersonalisation and
guilt.  Those who choose this path will never find it easy - prejudice
and jealousy will see to that, as very few people have the courage to be
themselves and those that do are often hated for it. For not conforming.
For not being "one of us".

T.O.P.Y. aims to make each individual free of the mental shackles and
spiritual bonds placed on us since birth. To question the unquestioning
mind and to heal the wound of separation withing us. For no-one is whole
when psyche, mind and body work in discord. The Psychick Cross is a
symbol of this unity - a tangible representation of 23 - two threes back
to back, joined, whole, a perfect harmony visually and psychically, to
be used as a focal point for energy, a comforter emotionally and a
reminder of the potential within us. A potential T.O.P.Y. can help us to
achieve.

The thing I can give most readily is my love. My love of Life and its
unifying energy and of all living things. My love of humanity and all
that these destructive creatures have produced that is creative. My love
of my ideal that I have cherished and nurtured all my life - that
finally humankind will see and feel all that is within me is within all
life and therefore that all life is within me.

---------------------------------------------

The nation, the world is in a trap. The poor are getting poorer, and the
rich, richer. Our environment is collapsing in upon ourselves because of
what we are doing. An example: it is legal to corrode the ozone layer
(by use of aerosols, etc.) and thereby harm everyone, yet illegal to
smoke marijuana, and harm no-one. We need change, revolution - and
T.O.P.Y. is that. The ideas of it being an insane death cult are a
misconception. We are help, perhaps the only help and friend, not an
enemy. So open your eyes.
