ab:aphorism.txt                                                 13jan90

                       Various Aphorisms (Proverbs)

     For witches this be Law -
     Where ye enter in, from there withdraw.

     An ye will secure the spell,
     Cast some silver in the well.

     Enhance thy trance
     With drug and dance.

     Vervain and dill lend aid to will.

     Trefoil, vervain, St.-John's-wort, dill,
     Hinder witches of their will !

     Upon the clock, dependeth not.

     Success pursueth the persistent.

     Guilt flees when none pursueth.

     Power shared is power lost.

     Seek thine enemy in secret.

     Thoughts are things: as a man thinkest, so he is.

     No one person can accomplish all.

     Danger is never overcome without danger.

     The past is fixed, yet the future may be bent.

     Where communication fails, confusion follows.

     Some things cannot be understood by mortal man.
     Many such must simply be accepted.

     Rush in where angels fear to tread: the Gods are with you.

     As a man thinketh, so is he.

     If you think small, you become small.

     Remember the Passwords: Perfect Love and Perfect Trust, so trust the 
     Universe and be at Home everywhere.

     If you imagine and fear 'I will get trapped', of course you will get 
     trapped. Fear not, and you won't.

     You are never less alone than when you think you are alone.

     Fear not, for fear is failure and the forerunner of failure.

     Pray to the Moon when she is round
     Luck with you shall then abound
     What you seek for shall be found
     In sea or sky or solid ground ...

----------
     -These come from various sources
     -There's no reason to believe that any list of aphorisms is part of the
      "standard" Gardnerian or Alexandrian BOS.
     -Sources of this list are known to include:
             The Witches' Almanac
             The Grimoire of Lady Sheba
             Wicca the Ancient Way
             Paul Huson's "Mastering Witchcraft"
     -Add your own; I did. ---Sekhet.


