                        CIRCLE CEREMONY
WATER
        Blessings upon thee, O creature of water, I cast out from
thee all impurities and uncleanness of the spirits  of phantasm,
confusion, or any other influence not for the free will of all.
SALT
        Blessings be upon this creature of salt; let all malignity
and hindrance be cast forth thencefrom, and let all good enter
therein.  Wherefore I bless thee and invoke thee, that thou
mayest aid me.
MIXING
        I take this salt of the Earth, Blessed with the will of
        Fire; I take this water of spirit,Exorcised with mind of merit;
        I mix them with words of power,
        Dedicated to every Tower.
        By the power of moon and sun,        
        By the power of Spirit,earth and sea,
        God and Goddess are part of One,
        As I Will, so mote it be!
                        CASTING OF THE CIRCLE
        I conjure thee, O circle of power,
        As thou encircle every Tower.
        That thou beest a place of Truth, Joy and love,
        Encircling Flight of Eagle, Hawk and Dove.
         Mighty Aegis of the Lady and Lord,
        Rampart of thought, action and word.
        To work in Peace, Powerful and Free,
        Who walk between two worlds conjure thee;
        A boundary to Protect, Concentrate and Contain,
        That Power raised here be not in vain.
        
 Wherefore do I bless thee and consecrate thee, in the names of
Cernunnos and Aradia.

                        SEALING OF THE CIRCLE
(seal with water/salt mixture)
With potion of earth and water, I seal the sacred circle,
Linking air and fire!
With potion of earth and air, I seal the sacred circle,
Linking fire with water!
With potion of earth,air,and fire, I seal the sacred circle,
Linking water with the Earth!
As the four directions are brought to merge,
Let influence of the mighty ones converge!
(Seal with Censer)
        With Incense and air of Mind,
        East to South,I do Bind!
        With Incense and air of mind,
        South to West, I do Bind!
        With Incense and air of Mind,
        West to North, I do Bind!
        With Incense and air of Mind,
        North to East Completion Find!
(Seal with Candle)
        With the Fire of emotion and will
        East to South, our dedication fulfill!
        With the Fire of veneration and Will,
        South to West, our allegiance fulfill!
        With the Fire of Devotion and Will,
        West to North, our consecration  fulfill!
        
        With the Fire of Commitment and will,
        From  North to East, This inscription fulfill!
        Within the circle All wills be free,
        The circle is sealed, So Mote it Be!

                        SETTING THE WATCHTOWERS
        Ye Lords of the Eastern Tower,
        Airy Lords of Spirit;
        Let your influence of Power,
        Aid our minds with merit!
I do summon, stir and call you up, to witness these rites and to
guard the circle.
        Ye Lords of Southern Power
        Fiery Lords of Will.
        Pray do grace your Tower,
        Your Powers to fulfill!
I do summon, stir and call you up, to witness these rites and to
guard the circle.
        Ye Lordsœ of the Watchtowers of the West, 
        Watery Lords of Death and Initiation; 
I do summon, stir and call you up, to witness these rites and to
guard the Circleœ.
        Ye Northern Lords of the Earth,
        Though we be yet but Mortals;
        Bless our work with worth,
        Boreas, guardian of Northern portals.
I do summon, stir and call you up, to witness these rites and to
guard the Circle.
        Goddess and God, I would know,
        As 'tis above, so 'tis below
        Blessings on this work, please bestow!
        This be my will, true and free,
        I do so will, so mote it be

                INVOCATION OF THE ELEMENTS
        Air, Fire, Water, Earth,
        Elements of astral birth,
        I call you now; attend to me!
        In the Circle, rightly cast,
        Safe from curse or blast,
        I call you now, attend to me!
        From cave and desert,sea and hill,
        By wand, blade,and pentacle,
        I call you now, attend to me!
        This Is my will, so mote it be!
