ab:circle1.txt                                        16jan90



                   Casting the Circle

Needs:  Altar, 2 Altar Candles, Water Bowl, Salt Dish, Pentacle,
        Censer, Athame, Bell; Presence Lamp; 4 Quarter Candles; 
        Sword (optional), Candle Snuffer (optional)

Let all be fit to enter into the presence of the Gods.

Start in the dark. 

Ritual Leader waits until it feels like time to begin, then rises:

LIGHTING OF THE CANDLE:
R:      "I light this Candle                    (lights Presence Lamp)
        in the name of that ancient presence,
        which is, was, and ever shall be
        male, female, all-knowing, all-powerful
        and present everywhere.

        And in the names of the four Mighty Ones,
        the rulers of the elements,
        may power and blessing descend
        in this hour upon this place   
        and those gathered here."

R lights the two altar candles, the charcoal, and the four quarter candles
from the Presence Lamp.

EXORCISM OF THE WATER:
R kneels before the altar and places the Water Bowl upon the Pentacle. 
R purifies the water by plunging the tip of his/her athame into the water, 
saying:

R:      "I exorcise thee, O Creature of Water, that thou cast out from
        thee all the impurity and uncleanliness of the world of phantasm.
        In the names of Cernunnos and Cerridwen."

BLESSING OF THE SALT:
R sets the Water Bowl aside and in its place sets the Salt Dish upon 
the Pentacle. R touches salt with tip of athame, saying:

R:      "Blessings be upon thee, O Creature of Salt; let all malignity and
        hindrance be cast forth from thee, and let all good enter within.
        Wherefore do I bless and consecrate thee, that thou mayest aid me. 
        In the names of Cernunnos and Cerridwen."

Using the tip of the athame, R takes three measures of salt and puts
it into the water, then stirs deosil three times with the athame, saying:

R:      "But ever mind that as water and salt purifies the body, 
        so the scourge purifies the soul. So mote it be !"

CASTING THE CIRCLE:
R draws a circle, continuous from north deosil unto north with the Sword
(or athame), saying:

R:      "I conjure thee, O Circle of Power, that thou beest
        a boundary between the world of men and the realms of the Mighty Ones;
        a meeting place of love and joy and truth; 
        a shield against all wickedness and evil;
        a rampart and protection that shall preserve and contain
        the power that we raise within thee. 
        Wherefore do I bless thee, and consecrate thee,
        in the names of Cernunnos and Cerridwen."

(If others are without, a gate is opened, and they are now brought 
into the Circle with a kiss, and the Circle is resealed.)

CONSECRATION OF THE CIRCLE WITH THE FOUR ELEMENTS:
R takes up the consecrated water and asperges the Circle with his/her 
fingertips, from north deosil unto north; and then touches each person within
with the water, being touched in turn by his/her working partner (or another of 
the opposite sex to R, if available). Water Bowl is returned to altar.

R then takes up the censer, and likewise censes the Circle from north unto 
north. 

Lastly R takes around the Presence Lamp (or a candle lit from the Presence Lamp
and returned to it).

CALLING THE MIGHTY ONES:
All stand and salute the East. R stands in front of group facing East. 
Maiden stands at back of group with the Bell. M rings Bell.

With athame, R draws three deosil circles and then an invoking earth pentagram,
saying:

R:      "Ye Lords of the Watchtowers of the East, ye Lords of Air;
        I, N....., do summon, stir and call you up, to witness our
        rites and guard the Circle !"

All turn and face South. Ritual Leader and Maiden move to corresponding 
positions; others just turn in place. M rings Bell.

With athame, R draws three deosil circles and then an invoking earth pentagram,
saying:

R:      "Ye Lords of the Watchtowers of the South, ye Lords of Fire;
        I, N....., do summon, stir and call you up, to witness our
        rites and guard the Circle !"

Similarly, in West:

R:      "Ye Lords of the Watchtowers of the West, ye Lords of Water;
        Lords of Death and Initiation; I, N....., do summon, stir and call 
        you up, to witness our rites and guard the Circle !"


And in North:

R:      "Ye Lords of the Watchtowers of the North, ye Lords of Earth; Boreas,
        thou Guardian of the Northern Portals; I, N....., do summon, stir
        and call you up, to witness our rites and guard the Circle !"

All turn back to the East and salute.

Now all turn to North again. M rings Bell. R says:

R:      "Ye Mighty Ones,
        Lords of the Watchtowers of the Universe,
        Dread Lords of the outer spaces,
        Thou powerful God, thou gentle Goddess,
        We invite you to our meeting.
                                                        (pause)
        O thou Loving Cerridwen.
        O thou Mighty Cernunnos,
        we gather (I stand) before you 
        to ...."                                        (state intent)

The Circle is now perfect.

----------
-Adapted from Farrars' '8 Sabbats', but published all over the place 
 in several versions.
-'Lighting of Candle' added by Khaled, Sekhet & Random.
-'Exorcism of Water' & 'Blessing of Salt' closely follow those of the Key
 of Solomon, Book 2, Chapt. V.