ab:consec1.txt                                                    16jan90


                Consecrating a Sword or Athame

   Lay sword (or athame) on pentacle, preferably by, and touching, another, 
consecrated, weapon. The man asperges them with consecrated salt and water, 
whereupon the woman picks up the weapon to be consecrated and passes it through 
the imcense smoke and replaces it on the pentacle. Both lay their right hands 
upon the weapon and press down, saying:

  Both: "I conjure thee, O Sword (Athame), by these Names, Abrahach, Abrach, 
        Abracadabra, that thou servest me for a strength and defence in all 
        magical operations against all mine enemies, visible and invisible.
        I conjure thee anew by the Holy Name Aradia and by the Holy Name
        Cernunnos; I conjure thee, O Sword (Athame), that thou servest me
        for a protection in all adversities; so aid me now !"

   Again the man asperges, and the woman censes, and the weapon is returned to 
the pentacle, saying:

  Both: "I conjure thee, O Sword (Athame) of Steel, by the Great Gods and 
        Gentle Goddesses, by the virtue of the heavens, of the stars
        and of the spirits who preside over them, that thou mayest receive
        such virtue that I may obtain the end I desire in all things 
        wherein I shall use thee, by the power of Aradia and Cernunnos."

   The Partner gives the Fivefold kiss unto the owner of the weapon.
If the owner is not present, or if the weapon is jointly owned by them both,
the man will give the Fivefold kiss to the woman. For the final kiss upon 
the mouth, the weapon is suspended between their breasts, held there by the 
pressure of their embrace. As they seperate, the owner of the weapon 
immediately uses it to recast the Circle, but without words.

Notes:  If possible, lay sword with an already consecrated sword or athame. 
It should, if possible, be consecrated by both a man and a woman, both of whom 
are initiated, and both naked as drawn swords. During consecration, press down 
on sword hard with consecrated sword or athame. If possible partake of Cakes 
and Wine first, then Magus should sprinkle with water, Witch should cense in 
First Conjuration, then sprinkle and cense and conjure again with Second 
Conjuration. If true sword and athame are available, a sword and athame can be 
consecrated at the same time in which case Magus should press with sword on 
sword, and Witch with athame on athame, and new sword and athame should touch.
In any case, when finished the weapon should be handed to new owner with 
Fivefold Salute, and should be pressed against the body for a time to get the 
aura; and it should be in as close connection as possible to the naked body for 
at least a month, i.e. kept under pillow, etc. Do not allow anyone to touch or 
handle any of your tools until thoroughly impregnated with your aura; say six 
months or as near as possible. But a pair working together may own the same 
tools, which will be impregnated with the aura of both.

----------
-published in Janet and Stewart Farrar's "The Witches Way"
-They say it comes from GBG's BOS (Text B/C version)
-They say that he derived it from "The Greater Key of Solomon", but had 
 dropped the Hebrew and other magical names by text B (they were in text 
 A).
-See 'Key of Solomon' Book 2, Chapt. VIII. 1st conjuration follows the text
 closely, but 2nd and instructions differ.
-The Farrars say that GBG's text A version can be found in "The Key of 
Solomon" and "High Magic's Aid"

