                  BELIEFS AND CUSTOMS OF WICCA


Not every Wiccan will subscribe to all of these points, but
generally they are representative.


1.  The divine Spirit is present in all creatures and things:
people, animals, plants, stones...

2.  The ultimate creative force manifests in both feminine and
masculine modes;  therefore it is often symbolized as the Goddess
and The God.

3.  In some covens, both are celebrated equally.  In others, The
Goddess is given precedence or even celebrated without reference
to the God.

4.  All Goddesses and Gods are aspects of The Goddess and The God.
  The aspects most popular in Wicca are the Triple Goddess of the
Moon (Maiden, Mother and Crone) and the Horned God of death and
rebirth.

5.  Reincarnation and karma are valid concepts.  Upon death one
goes to a state of rest and reflection, and eventually chooses
where and when s/he will be reborn.

6.  Magick is practiced for positive (helping) purposes:
spiritual development, healing, guidance, safety, etc.

7.  Rituals are generally performed outdoors when possible, at the
New and Full Moons, and at eight Sabbat festivals which mark the
progression of the seasons.

8.  Magick and celebration are performed in small groups, usually
3 to 13, called covens.  These are basically autonomous -- there
is no central church authority or hierarchy.

9.  There is no holy book, or prophet, no equivalent of the Bible
or Jesus or Mohammed.  Individuals have access to the divine, and
do not require an intermediary.  Every initiate is regarded as a
priest/ess.

10. The central ethic is "And ye harm none, do as ye will."
Whatever energy you send out returns threefold, so it is wise to
be kind to others.

11. We should live in harmony with the Earth and Nature, and not
exploit them.

12. Though Wicca is a valid spiritual path, it is not the only
one.  There is no recruiting, and people should be free to choose
the path that best fits their needs.

13. The concepts of original sin, sacrifice, redemption,
Šconfession, the divinity of Jesus, sinfulness of sex, Judgment,
Heaven and Hell, denigration of women, bodily resurrection, and
the Bible as divine revelation are not part of Wicca.  Neither are
Satanism, the Black Mass, desecration of cemeteries, the sacrifice
of animals, etc.

EARTH-RITE / Mission San Jose, CA / 415-651-9496
Copyright (c) 1983 Amber K., Our Lady of the Woods. Used by
Permission

