

From:    Paul Seymour 
To:      All                                      Msg #67, 03/06/91 14:01cst
Subject: COG (1of4)

                        THE COVENANT OF THE GODDESS

PURPOSE

    The Covenant of the Goddess was founded in 1975 to increase
cooperation among Witches,  and to secure for Witches and covens
the legal  protection enjoyed by members of other religions.

FUNCTIONS

    The Covenant publishes a newsletter;  issues ministerial
credentials on request to qualified persons; sponsors a national
festival each summer; and encourages networking nationally,  as
well  as  regionally  through local councils.

STRUCTURE

    The  Covenant is incorporated as a non-profit religious
organization in California, though it has grown to be a
nationwide organization.  It is a confederation of covens and
solitaires  of  various  traditions,  who share in the worship of
the Goddess and the Old Gods and subscribe to a common  code of
ethics.  The Covenant holds a Grand Council annually to elect
national officers, set a budget, and decide matters which require
deliberation by the full membership.  Decisions are usually made
by consensus.

CODE OF ETHICS

    * An ye harm none, do as ye will.

    * Since our religion and arts and practices peculiar to it
are the gift of  the Goddess,  membership and training in a local
coven or tradition are bestowed free,  as gifts,  and only on
those persons who are deemed worthy to receive them.  However, a
coven may expect each of its members to bear a fair share of its
ordinary operating expenses.

    * All persons have the right to charge reasonable fees for
the services by which they earn a living,  so long as our
religion  is  not thereby exploited.

    * Every person associated with this Covenant shall respect
the autonomy and sovereignty of each coven, as well as the right
of each coven to oversee the spiritual,  mental,  emotional and
physical development of its members and students in its own way,
and shall exercise reasonable caution against infringing upon
that right in any way.

    * Members of this Covenant shall respect the traditional
secrecy of our religion.

    * Members of this Covenant should ever  keep  in  mind  the
underlying unity of our religion as well as the diversity of its
manifestations.

--- FD 1.99c
 * Origin: The Mountain Oracle - Pagan/Occult Distribution System (1:301/9)


From:    Paul Seymour 
To:      All                                      Msg #68, 03/06/91 14:02cst
Subject: COG (2of4)

                             PART II
    *  These ethics shall be understoond and interpreted in light
of one another, and especially in light of the traditional laws
of our  religion.

CONFIDENTIALITY

    All information give to the Covenant of the Goddess or any of
its officials  is considered strictly confidential,  unless you
indicate otherwise.  No information about members is published or
given  out  without explicit  written  permission.  Direct access
to the Covenant's mailing list is limited to the Board of
Directors.  Maximum privacy is assured.

NEWSLETTER

    At every Sabbat the Covenant publishes a newsletter of Craft
and  Pagan news,  original  articles,  poetry,  humor,  rituals
and announcements.  Member covens receive  the  newsletter
automatically.  Individual  coveners  and  non-members who donate
a suitable tax-deductible gift will also be placed on the mailing
list, to receive the newsletter and other mailings.  Circulation
is  limited  to members and friends of the Covenant.

FINANCES

    An  annual  membership  tithe is set every year by the Grand
Council to cover bare expenses,  based on the previous  year's
expenses  and  any projected  cost increases.  The annual
financial statement is published in the newsletter.  Other
activities  are  supported  by  fund-raising.
    All contributions to the Covenant of the Goddess are greatly
appreciated and are tax-deductible.

APPLYING FOR MEMBERSHIP

    Any Goddess-supporting coven or solitaire can be eligible
for  membership  in  the  Covenant of the Goddess if certain
criteria and requirements are met.  All inquiries into membership
should  be  sent  to the National Credentials Officer.  If the
coven or solitaire is in an area near a local council,  the
National Officer will forward the inquiry to the local
Credentials Officer, who will respond.  A member can apply in
person at a council meeting, or by filling out the appropriate
form and sending it in with the initial membership tithe.

--- FD 1.99c
 * Origin: The Mountain Oracle - Pagan/Occult Distribution System (1:301/9)


From:    Paul Seymour 
To:      All                                      Msg #69, 03/06/91 14:04cst
Subject: COG (Part 3of4)

                               PART III
GENERAL CRITERIA FOR COVEN MEMBERSHIP

    * Generally focus thealogy and ritual, etc., around worship
of the Goddess and the Old Gods (or the Goddess alone).

    * Believe and follow a code of ethics compatible with that of
the Covenant.

    * Have beem meeting monthly or oftener for at least six
months.

    * Have three more more members who have been formally
accepted into the clergy.

    * Be a cohesive, self-perpetuating group.

REQUIREMENTS FOR MEMBERSHIP

    Full Membership:  The applicant must be recommended without
reservation by two active members of the Covenant.

    Provisional Membership:  The applicant may be recommended by
one  member;  and  then  within a year and a day make a viable
effort to get to know other members, in order to achieve Full
Member status.

    The appropriate Credentials Officer (National or  local)
shall  verify information regarding criteria and credentials.

COVEN-AT-LARGE

    This is the term we use to represent the many Witches who are
solitaires, i.e. practicing alone.  Each local council may devise
its own standards for admission of coveners-at-large,  in harmony
with national guidelines.

LOCAL COUNCILS

    A local council is a smaller branch of the Covenant,
consisting of  at least three member covens of at least two
different traditions, in
reasonably close geographic proximity to each other.  The  local
councils generally meet more often than the national
organization.  They may initiate independent projects,
sponsorlocal festivals and  workshops, and generally work
together for common goals close to home.  As the Covenant
continues to grow, we encourage new member covens close to one
another to form their own local councils.

VOTING

    When a matter requiring a decision is presented before the
Covenant in council, it is discussed by the members in attendance
until a consensus is reached.  If a consensus cannot be reached,
then a vote is taken.  A coven  holding a current Full Membership
is entitled to one vote.  Each such coven also holds the power to
veto,  though this is exercised only in extreme cases.  A coven
with Provisional Membership is entitled to one vote, but does not
hold veto power.

--- FD 1.99c
 * Origin: The Mountain Oracle - Pagan/Occult Distribution System (1:301/9)


From:    Paul Seymour 
To:      All                                      Msg #70, 03/06/91 14:05cst
Subject: COG (Part 4of4)


    A coven-at-large is entitled to one vote if, and only if,
three individuals are physically present at the council and
unanimous in their choice of vote.

MINISTERIAL CREDENTIALS

    In order to receive Ministerial Credentials as a Priestess or
Priest, a person shall:

    1.  Be an active member of a coven which is a Full Member of
the  Covenant.

    2.  Have  been  "confirmed" to taking on the full commitment
to the requirements of that coven's Tradition of our religion.

    3.  Have undergone at least a full year  of  active  training
for  the ministry of that Tradition.

    These credentials shall remain valid only so long as the
person remains an  active  member  of  the coven which remains an
active member of the Covenant.

    In order to be eligible to receive Ministerial Credentials as
an Elder, a person shall:

    1.  Satisfy (2.) and (3.) above.

    2.  Have undergone an additional full year of active training
for  the ministry.

    3.  Be fully able to form a coven, admit members, and train
them in the tenets and practices of that Tradition.

    These  credentials shall remain valid for life, unless
specifically revoked, so long as the person remains in contact
with the Covenant.

THE NATIONAL FESTIVAL

    The annual Grand Council or national business meeting is held
as  part of a national festival,  which is open to the whole
membership as well as Pagans and Witches who are not part of the
Covenant.  The
festival is usually held at a secluded campground or resort,  and
moves to a different area of the country each  summer.  In
addition to  the council  meeting,  the  program  includes
workshops  on magick and the Craft, concerts, a potluck feast, a
talent show, and the opportunity to purchase (or barter for) art,
crafts and ritual tools by  Pagan  artisans.  Registration
information is available in the newsletter.

FOR MORE INFORMATION:

    Write to: Covenant of the Goddess, P.O. Box 1226, Berkeley,
CA 94704.

--- FD 1.99c
 * Origin: The Mountain Oracle - Pagan/Occult Distribution System (1:301/9)
