Msg#:15036 *WICCA*
12/31/89 13:45:00
From: AMMOND SHADOWCRAFT
  To: ALL
Subj: CYBERCRAFT PROPOSAL
                   CYBERCRAFT -- The Proposal

CyberCraft--An Interpretative Metaphor

     Welcome to the first ever CyberCraft Manual. We hope you will
enjoy and benefit from this little exploration into the majikal
mind-body complex. Our purpose is to help others operate at higher
levels on all planes of life. It isn't our purpose to help them just
feel better. Witchcraft has some very positive and life affirming
teachings. The authors of this document hope to interpret those
metaphors bringing them into a late 20th century framework from which
we can springboard into the 21st century.

     However we have strong forces to compete against. The first
struggle we are involved with is one of the mind-body complex. Who
will control our mind-bodies? Will it be the Aspirant, the one looking
a better life, or will it be the Controllers, the ones with the power
and monies to mold our minds to their purposes? And will we nurture
the emerging Changelings? Or let the Persecutors administer the Last
Rite to our offspring.

     CyberCraft is not meant to be an end in itself. We are hoping
that it will offer the Aspirant the options needed to create a better
world for them to live in.

     CyberCraft is the art of living that integrates rational and
irrational process through mythopoetic structures primarily from
Wicca, then neo-Paganism and other related religious belief systems.
It should incorporate knowledge from newer and emerging humanistic
sciences. Principles of ethical self-programming as written of by
Timothy Leary, John Lilly, Robert Anton Wilson, Antero Alli, and
Christopher Hyatt should be incorporated into the relational
processes; those setting between solar and lunar knowledge.

     Humans seem to have a need to be both rational and irrational at
the same time. In doing so we generate quite a few problems and reap
some benefits. At this point in human time we are not able to measure
magik, nor are we able to measure or sense the so called etheric or
astral. Providing that we are given time and if the interests are
still mounted, we may be able to invent measuring or sensing devices
for such indeterminate quantities.

     Further the practice of dividing the mind from the body has
broken sunder the human even further. For the purposes of CyberCraft
the mind-body is one complex, one swirl of energy. The mind and body
are one entity, undivided, inseparable, and indivisible.

     It is the opinion of this author that many features of the powers
are misunderstood. Over the centuries and in various cultures humans
have overlaid folk fables and their personal expectations of what the
powers are into the framework of human abilities. And in doing so  
 
--- QuickBBS v2.61 [EVALUATION]
 * Origin: THE CRYSTAL CAVE, "DER MAGICK TREFFPUNKT"(719 391-1092
(1:128/50.0)



Msg#:15037 *WICCA*
12/31/89 13:46:00
From: AMMOND SHADOWCRAFT
  To: ALL
Subj: REPLY TO MSG# 15036 (CYBERCRAFT PROPOSAL)
needless baggage has crept into the consensus framework.  It is time
that we looked at our human nature without the clouded and marred lens
of binary, Christian, Ceremonial and patriarchal expectations.

     At the base of the concern humans are animal by definition. Human
magik should firstly be animal magik.  But does that mean we should be
satisfied with an animal expectation of what our abilities can be?
Should we push back the normal or natural boundaries? How far?

     The first order of business is to know ourselves. Does this mean
know just our bodies? How about desires? How about hopes, dreams and
aspirations?  How about our minds? Why should we remain ignorant of
why and how we think? Do we know now? Or do we think we know without
really knowing?  What part do preconceived concepts play in the
formulation of that sentiment? How do our respective cultures help us
define our consciousness? Are these definitions useful?  What can be
replaced? With what?

     It is useful to frame these questions in the milieu of the human
mind. Everything we can think of is thought with the bio- computer we
term the brain. How does the brain work?  Research effort is still in
progress but at the core we find that the brain is composed of
billions of cell bundles called neurons.  Each neuron could have as
many as 10,000 gateways to other neurons.  We know that information is
transmitted electro-chemically at about .07 volts.  But we don't know
everything yet. And least of all we don't know why we think what we
think.

     The above mentioned authors are helping to shed light upon our
thought processes. The terms and structures they use should be
considered metaphorical. But they provide a viable framework from
which to build a newer, more appropriate belief system for our times.

     It should be a psychological-religious-political thought system
to meet and support the needs of individuals who feel both a romantic
and classical approach is needed in their life. These needs should be
formatted into solar and lunar knowledge bases, ie., rational and
irrational modes with relational processes sitting midway betwixt
them. These should be used to a maximal degree.

     Humans are discovering that there is pity poor little difference
between political and religious systems. In fact religious systems
replace the tribal chief or monarch with a discarnate chief or
monarch. This eases the task of governing the populace through the
revelations and commandments of the discarnate and absent ruler from
on high. Humans always fear most what they cannot see, understand or
comprehend. And we always fear the invisible punisher; the inner  
 
--- QuickBBS v2.61 [EVALUATION]
 * Origin: THE CRYSTAL CAVE, "DER MAGICK TREFFPUNKT"(719 391-1092
(1:128/50.0)



Msg#:15038 *WICCA*
12/31/89 13:47:00
From: AMMOND SHADOWCRAFT
  To: ALL
Subj: REPLY TO MSG# 15037 (CYBERCRAFT PROPOSAL)
punisher who knows our greatest fears.  Consequently religious systems
are political systems of a supplementary order. Political systems
should be considered metareligious systems in that political concerns
lay at the base of or stand behind religious concerns. Religious
systems are political systems of an inner nature.

     Understanding our thoughts should become a little easier in the
solar (daylight consciousness) and lunar (twilight consciousness)
framework. Additionally many other modes of consciousness could be
mounted which straddle these tropes.  These should be termed the
relational or relative processes.

     Chemical assistance for modifying consciousness might be useful
in helping to determine how individuals might drive ethically chosen
programming deep into the psyche. But once the message is received we
should hang the phone up on chemical boosters.

     CyberCraft should incorporate many of the concepts contained in
Humanist Manifesto II.

     Secular humanists have pioneered many valuable ideas needful in
today's ever evolving political and social environments. CyberNauts
should augment some humanistic concepts with high technology answers
to pressing personal questions. And in applying technology to human
service systems we might make a difference not only in our little
corner of the planet but elsewhere.

     CyberCraft should foster a new class of technology termed
GreenTech. GreenTech should be those technologies which recycle and/or
use less of the Matrix's natural resources.

     CyberCraft is a new religious system that is more importantly a
mode of thinking.  Smart thinking usually leads to smart living.
Additionally the application of CyberCraft to mundane life should be
easy and seamless. Instead of taking the individual out of the social
complex it should enable them to integrate easily with the social
composite.

     All human structures spawn from the human mind.  More powerful
modes of thinking are needed to help us along our way in an ever
increasingly propaganda polluted knowledge environment.  We should
take into our own hands the facilities to make rational, relative and
irrational decisions void of fear of the outcome and infatuation of
the process.

     CyberCraft should appeal to the atheist as well as the
religionist as it focuses upon mythopoetic stories and structures and
the mystical connections between what is and is not seen, as opposed
to dogmatic theoretical structures.


     In Scott Peck's book A DIFFERENT DRUMMER he surmises the
following transitions for the religiously oriented.

     First is a stage of naivete in which the human mind/body complex  
 
--- QuickBBS v2.61 [EVALUATION]
 * Origin: THE CRYSTAL CAVE, "DER MAGICK TREFFPUNKT"(719 391-1092
(1:128/50.0)



Msg#:15039 *WICCA*
12/31/89 13:49:00
From: AMMOND SHADOWCRAFT
  To: ALL
Subj: REPLY TO MSG# 15038 (CYBERCRAFT PROPOSAL)
is not programed.

     Then follows a phase of organization in which the mind/body
complex is programed by an acceptable religious structure. Over time
the individual discovers that the religious structure is focused in
ways not desirable to the follower. Stick is mounted upon stone until
a way of escape is formulated which provides an honorable withdrawal.

     Sometime afterwards the individual discovers they are bitter
because of some single or multiple set of experiences. This stage is
marked by some form of agnosticism or atheism.  It's a rejection of
the organized systems which tend to exploit the seeker, the single,
the separate and lonely for financial and political gains.

     Still the seeker needs to feel they are a part of something
greater than the individual alone. A mystic phase encroaches whereupon
a glimmer of hope is seen in the natural intricacies of life.
Generally the mystic phase has an eclectic twist as the bio- computer
selectively compares, accepts and rejects concepts and structures
which are useful or not. This experience is intensely personal.  In
many cases the experience is not expressible as words to describe the
framework are found wanting.

     Theoretical structures should be included as long as they are
considered metaphorical structures or models existing within the human
mind first and foremost. These structures can then be used to ferret
out deep personal meaning.

     The paragraph above is the patented anti-dogma catma. The catma
is needed to remind us the menu is not the meal; that mental
apprehensions of a reality are not the realities themselves. Meow! A
valuable demonstration of this is the simple exercise of saying aloud
the word pinch. Then give the your arm a good pinch. Think about the
difference.


     Domains

     Domains are used metaphorically. More properly they represent
areas of interest. Higher and lower relate to density more than
social, cultural or ethical placement.  However higher and lower still
display some cultural heritage.  Higher should normally refer to more
dense, and thus would usually be considered the Lower Kingdoms in most
spirit focused theoretical structures.

     This is a reversal of the usual spirit based structures which
drive the initiate into seclusion and poverty. CyberCraft need be
neither ascetic nor bothersome. If CyberCraft arrives at a framework
which is not enjoyable the CyberCraft needs to die and be reborn.

     Higher refers to the relative density of matter. The human
sciences are more appropriate for humans, the spirit sciences more
appropriate for spirits. In the high domains herbal lore and self-  
 
--- QuickBBS v2.61 [EVALUATION]
 * Origin: THE CRYSTAL CAVE, "DER MAGICK TREFFPUNKT"(719 391-1092
(1:128/50.0)

Msg#:15040 *WICCA*
12/31/89 13:50:00
From: AMMOND SHADOWCRAFT
  To: ALL
Subj: REPLY TO MSG# 15039 (CYBERCRAFT PROPOSAL)
help topics are more the rule than the exception.


External Faces (Public)

     Religious Aspects--Low Domain

     The Low Domain is the basis of the religious belief system should
reflect WoMankind's ethical relationship to their home planet.
Depending upon personal focus the Earth can be personified or
considered the Grandmother or Mother of WoMankind. It should be called
Mom, Mother or the Matrix, the space enabling the existence of all
physical and non-physical local planetary lifeforms. The involved
solar processes should consider this a "self check" to prohibit
WoMankind from polluting their environment to the detriment of all
lifeforms.

     Other Matrixes may exist. CyberCraft should be concerned with
local planetary manifestations without denying the existences of other
Matrixes.

     The Matrix is paired with Patrus, which is symbolic of everything
which has happened to and upon the Matrix. Included phenomena are
geologic events, meteorological events, intrusions from outside the
Matrix, meteor impacts, panspermia arrivals and direct interventions
of space faring races.

     Other personified or romantic entities should exist within the
matrix. These should be the Lady and Lord and be more important or of
a relatively more immediate nature being seen as doorways to other
entities, other spaces, physical energetic natures or psychic spaces.
Frequently the Lady and Lord should be celebrated as the perfect
patterns of WoMankind. Matrix and Patrus along with Lady and Lord
should be remembered at every fullmoon celebration.

     Working of the Craft--Mid Domain

     The metaphorical Mid Domain should be the workings of the Craft.
At first the emphasis should be upon physical representations of the
Mid Domain.  Special tools should be selected for an individual or
group. These tools may or may not reflect traditional usage but should
be more appropriate for a culture and/or geographical locale than for
a traditional usage.

     Special robes may be appropriate. Nudity should be more useful
for metaprograming. The individuals background should be considered
before choosing tools or coverings. If the individual were normally a
naturist the metaprograming tool could be robes, etc.

     Tools and rituals should be used for immediate metaprograming
efforts. Dramatic ritual should be used to advantage for both
individual programming or group alignment.

     Experiments in communication with non-physical or discarnate
entities should be a focus. New modes of relationship in sexual or
emotional life should be incorporated providing members feel
comfortable with the activities. Safety, both physical and emotional,  
 
--- QuickBBS v2.61 [EVALUATION]
 * Origin: THE CRYSTAL CAVE, "DER MAGICK TREFFPUNKT"(719 391-1092
(1:128/50.0)



Msg#:15041 *WICCA*
12/31/89 13:51:00
From: AMMOND SHADOWCRAFT
  To: ALL
Subj: REPLY TO MSG# 15040 (CYBERCRAFT PROPOSAL)
should be paramount. Training of individuals for incorporation may be
needed to assist them in their growth into unknown areas.

     Incorporated Physical Sciences--High Domain

     The metaphorical High Domain should be the human and physical
knowledge systems, ie, health (birthing, child care and physical
health), nutritional, exercise, cosmetic and creative knowledge
systems, ie. sewing, cooking, building sciences, gardening and organic
farming techniques, and personal defense techniques.

     CyberCraft should initially provide the framework for immersion
in a Domain. The individual or group should decide for themselves what
extent they need to go.

    Organization

    CyberCraft should attempt to incorporate proven techniques of cell
or smaller group management while retaining intimacy. CyberCraft
leaders could be of either sex, of any sexual preference, but must be
emotionally sound. They may choose their own names and titles. Or
CyberCraft may assign a title in order to establish a somewhat
formalized but unrestricted tradition. We suggest these
classifications:

     Aspirant--an inquiring mind of reasonably good health,
     CyberNaut--a human moving from Four to Eight Circuits, an
        apprentice CyberPriest/ess,
     CyberPriest/ess--a fully functioning Eight Circuit human,
     Transitioner--a young or eight circuit human
        showing signs of physical metamorphosis
     New Human--a fully functioning transitioned human.

     Group or cell size should be held to about 2 to 15. However any
number of cell members may be used providing genuine intimacy is
maintained.

     CyberCraft should attempt to meet the economic and political
needs of its members. Resources are available that address political
activities in cells. An economic infrastructure must be established in
CyberCraft method. Should a social threat arise individual members may
need to support themselves in a strange or difficult environment.
Personal enrichment and empowerment as opposed to personal
aggrandizement should be the focus enabling the member to live well in
any difficult or strange economic or political environment.

     Emotional Requirements

     What part does love play in CyberCraft? Love in its various
shades and flavors permeate CyberCraft. From love of Mother and
Father, to love of knowledge and wisdom, to the lust and love of ones
lover, on to love of pleasure of the mind-body complex, love of the
patterns one manifests through, including the love of changing one's
world to finally the love of navigating the non- local passages
between the worlds. Yes love plays a vital part. But we are not so  
 
--- QuickBBS v2.61 [EVALUATION]
 * Origin: THE CRYSTAL CAVE, "DER MAGICK TREFFPUNKT"(719 391-1092
(1:128/50.0)



Msg#:15042 *WICCA*
12/31/89 13:52:00
From: AMMOND SHADOWCRAFT
  To: ALL
Subj: REPLY TO MSG# 15041 (CYBERCRAFT PROPOSAL)
naive to assume that only one type of love exists. Many different
shades and flavors make up this rainbow of emotion. CyberCraft should
experience and emphasize as many different forms of love as possible.

Internal Faces

     These are internal considerations not usually presentable to the
public at large. Pearls are delicate. We need not dirty them. Internal
faces can be determined at a later time.

             CyberCraft is a game; the game of Life. Play it!

        You may contact Ammond Shadowcraft at the following address:

                          Ammond Shadowcraft
                         c/o The Gaia Network
                            P.O. Box 49441
                       Colo. Spgs., Colo. 80949
                            (719) 599-5366

  
 
--- QuickBBS v2.61 [EVALUATION]
 * Origin: THE CRYSTAL CAVE, "DER MAGICK TREFFPUNKT"(719 391-1092
(1:128/50.0)
            