                           Descent Of The Goddess
                      Copyright 1993 Durwydd Mac Tara

(With special thanks to G. B. Gardner, Freydis Vasa and Julia Phillips)

    In ancient times, our Lord, the Horned One, was (as he still is) the
Controller, the Comforter.  But men know him as the dread Lord of
Shadows, lonely, stern, and just.

    But our Lady the Goddess would solve all mysteries, even the mystery
of death, and so she journeyed to the underworld.

    The Guardian of the Portals challenged her: 'Strip off thy garments,
lay aside thy jewels; for naught may you bring with you into this
our land, for it is written that your True Self is the only fitting
adornment for those in the realms of Death.'

    So she laid down her garments and her jewels, and was bound, as all
living must be who seek to enter the realms of Death, the Mighty One.

    Such was her beauty that Death himself knelt, and laid his sword and
crown at her feet, and kissed her feet, saying: 'Blessed be thy feet
that have brought thee in these ways.  Abide with me; but let me place
my cold hand on thy heart.'

    And she replied: 'Why do you cause all things that I love, and
take delight in, to fade and die?'

    'Lady,' replied Death, 'it is age and fate, against which I am
helpless.  Age causes all things to wither; but when men die at the end
of time, I give them rest and peace and strength, so that they may
return.  But you, you are lovely.  Return not, abide with me.'

     And she replied, 'Nay, I love thee not and I am needed in the world
of the living.'

     Again Death knelt, and kissed her knees, saying: 'Blessed be thy
knees that kneel before the Altar.  Abide with me; let me place my cold
hand on thy heart.'

     And she replied, 'Nay, I love thee not and I am needed in the world
of the living.'

     Death (still kneeling), and kissed her on the womb, saying:
'Blessed be thy organs of generation, without which none of us would be.
Abide with me; let me place my cold hand on thy heart.'

     And she replied, 'Nay though I feel the beginnings of love for
thee, I must return to those I fully love in the world of creation.'

     Death then stood, and kissed her on the breast, saying: Blessed be
thy breast, formed in strength and beauty.  Abide with me; let me place
my cold hand on thy heart.'

     And she replied, 'Nay though I feel love for thee, I must not
abandon those I am responsible for, in the world of creation. I cannot
do this thing, better you would return with me.'

     'Lady,' replied Death, It cannot be so.  If I were to leave my
realm, and abandon those who seek their comfort and rest with me, then
the Wheel would no longer turn.  Age and weakness would overtake those
whom you love, and they would have nowhere to find rest, and peace, and
reunion with those who have gone before.  As age and debility overtook
your creations, there would quickly be no room for the new, only the
withered, the tired, and the stagnant.' He then kissed her lips, saying:
'Blessed be thy lips, which shall utter the Holy Names.  Abide with me;
let me place my cold hand on thy heart.'

     And she replied, Let us BOTH lay our hands, each unto the heart of
the other, thereby claiming and uniting each unto the other.  In this
way may I rule my kingdom of birth, creation, and life; yet share with
you your kingdom of death, rejuvenation, and rest. United in Perfect
Love and Perfect Trust, that the Universe may be whole and the Wheel
turn smoothly.

     Death replied, 'This is indeed WISDOM, So Mote it Be!' They
embraced, thus pledging their eternal love.

    And he taught her all his mysteries, and gave her the necklace which
is the circle of rebirth.  And she taught him her mystery of the sacred
cup which is the cauldron of rebirth.

    They loved, and were one; for there be three great mysteries in the
life of mankind, and magic controls them all.  To fulfil love, you must
return again at the same time and at the same place as the loved ones;
and you must meet, and know, and remember, and love them again.

    But to be reborn, you must die, and be made ready for a new body.
And to die, you must be born; and without love, you may not be born.

    And our Goddess is ever inclined to love, and mirth, and happiness;
and guards and cherishes her hidden children in life, and in death
she teaches the way to her communion; and even in this world she
teaches them the mystery of the Magic Circle, which is placed between
the worlds of men and of the Gods.

And thus we are taught of the beginnings of the wheel of the year
wherein the Lord and the Lady share their rulership of the year, and the
basis of that sharing.
