      To:  All                        Message #:  3355 
    From:  Paul Seymour               Submitted:  14 Jun 91 21:55:00  
 Subject:  A Wiccan Glossary (2 0f 5     Status:  Public
Received:  No                             Group:  METAPHYSICAL (35)

RE: A Wiccan Glossary (2 0f 5)
MSGID: 1:301/9 6715e45b
        A GLOSSARY of TERMS Commonly Used in WICCA
                  Part 2 of 5
     Copyright 1991 by Rowan Moonstone and Durwydd MacTara

CARDINAL POINTS- North, South, East, and West, marked in the
Georgian Tradition by candles of green, red, yellow, and
blue, respectively. The Circle is drawn to connect these
four points.

CHALICE- one of the tools of the Witch. Placed on the altar
to represent the element of Water.

CHARGE OF THE GODDESS- The Traditional words of the Goddess
to her followers, or "hidden children". Normally declaimed
by the HPS at every coven Circle.

CIRCLE- the area in which the magickal worship and spells
takes place. Can also be used to designate a particular
group of Witches or Pagans such as "Silver Acorn Circle".

CONE OF POWER- power raised in the circle by the Witches
assembled, and sent out into the world to work magick, is
usually visualized as being retained and built in the form
of a "cone" prior to release.

COVEN- an organized group of Witches, led by a High
priestess and/or a High Priest who meet regularly for
worship and fellowship. The traditional membership is 13,
but in fact most covens number considerably less. 3 is the
minimum in the Georgian Tradition. In Middle English,
"Covin" a group of confederates;  In Old French "Covine" a
band or group with a single purpose; Latin "Com"-together,
"Venire"-to come or move.

COVENSTEAD- regular meeting place for a coven. Usually the
home of the High Priestess or High Priest.

COWAN- a non-Witch. Formerly used in a very derogatory
manner.  Still used in Masonic Ritual to indicate the non
initiate and/or pretender to "real craft".  Not often used
today among most Witches.

COYOTE ENERGY- trickster energies. Named for the American
Indian Trickster, Coyote, who tricks man into learning what
he needs to learn. Applies to one who constantly jokes and
clowns.  Also applies to the concept of "Holy Fool" in many
traditions.

CROSS QUARTER DAYS- The modern name for the Celtic Fire
Festivals of Samhain, Imbolc, Beltane, and Lammas.

DEOSIL- clockwise, or sunwise. Traditional direction for
working "building" magick.

DRAWING  DOWN THE MOON- Ritual invocation of the spirit of
the Goddess into the body of the High Priestess by the High
Priest.

DIVINATION- magical method of exploration or inquiry into a
situation via such methods as Tarot cards, runestones, I-
Ching, etc.

--- FD 1.99c
 * Origin: The Mountain Oracle - Pagan/Occult Distribution System (1:301/9)
=-=-=-=-=
