      To:  All                        Message #:  3357 
    From:  Paul Seymour               Submitted:  14 Jun 91 22:03:00  
 Subject:  WICCAN GLOSSARY (4 OF 5)      Status:  Public
Received:  No                             Group:  METAPHYSICAL (35)

MSGID: 1:301/9 6716035b
         A GLOSSARY OF TERMS COMMONLY USED IN WICCA
                    Part 4 of 5
     Copyright 1991 by Rowan Moonstone and Durwydd MacTara

MAIDEN- An appointment held by one of the women of the
coven. She is virtually the assistant High Priestess. This
term is also the descriptive term used to describe the first
of the aspects of the Threefold Goddess Energies (Maiden,
Mother, and Crone).  It is traditionally associated with the
Waxing Moon, and the period from Imbolc (Candlemas) to
Beltane (May eve) where the energies are those of
initiating, beginning, and creation.

OLD RELIGION- another name for the Craft.

PAGANING- Presentation of an infant to the Circle and to the
Gods.

PENTACLE- a disc shaped talisman; in particular, the metal
disc which represents the earth element among the witch's
working tools.

PENTAGRAM- The five-pointed star. With a single point
uppermost, it represents the human being. Inverted, with two
points uppermost, it can have Satanist associations; but not
necessarily. Some traditions of Wicca use the inverted
pentagram to signify an initiate of the second degree.

QUARTERS- The North, East, South, and West parts of a
magickal circle or other ritual area. (See also
"Watchtowers")

REDE- rule or law.

SABBAT- one of the Eight festivals or high holy days of
Wicca.

SALAMANDER- an entity that dwells in the realm of Fire.

SAMHAIN- The festival of remembrance for the dead, held on
the eve of Nov. 1st. It is the last of the three harvests.
This festival also marks the transition of rulership of the
"Wheel of the Year from that of the Goddess to that of the
God.

SCRYING- divination, usually using such methods as crystal
gazing, or divination via incense smoke, or water as opposed
to tarot or other manipulative means.

SPELL- a prayer, or verbal direction of magickal energies
toward the accomplishment of some goal.

SUMMONER- The male officer of the coven who corresponds to
the Maiden. He is the assistant High Priest.

SYLPH- an "entity" or "elemental" that dwells in the plane
of Air or is associated with the AIR Element.

TRADITIONS- any of the various "sects" of Wicca such as
Gardnerian, Alexandrian, Georgian, Seax, etc.

UNDINE- an "entity" or "elemental" that dwells in the plane
of Water or is associated with the WATER Element.

--- FD 1.99c
 * Origin: The Mountain Oracle - Pagan/Occult Distribution System (1:301/9)
=-=-=-=-=
