
                    HEALING - A COMMUNICATION WITH YOURSELF


    Quick  Reference  Note: The file RELAX.ZIP will come in handy as a prep
    for the following information...


    Self   healing   involves  the  inner  communication  with  ones  self.
    Visualization, another word for self  communication  is  used  in  this
    text.   In  the following document, the usage of visualization is quite
    important, so open your mind, and prepare yourself for the experience.

    One of the most important facts to consider when  trying  to  use  self
    healing  techniques,  is  an  understanding  of  the meaning behind our
    ailments.  And so here I offer some guidelines to help you get in touch
    with the messages within yourself.

    To begin with, I want to remind you that "The limits  of  your  beliefs
    define  the  limits of your reality".  For, this reason it is important
    that you allow yourself to be open to all possibilities.  If your  mind
    is  closed  to  the  notion  of  inner  guidance,  then  no  amount  of
    visualizing will produce it.  If you  are  open  to  finding  an  inner
    source of knowing, then--with patience and trust--you will.

    The  second  point  I want to make has to do with guilt and self-blame.
    While accepting that your illness is related to sub-conscious  thoughts
    and  beliefs  is  essential  for healing yourself, it is also essential
    that you not blame yourself for your illness.  Our  diseases  point  to
    positive  new  directions  where  we  need to go in our lives.  Staying
    stuck in guilt  serves  only  to  keep  us  stuck  in  self-destructive
    feelings.

    Third,  I  would like to mention that the consensus among those sources
    that I have researched, was that if it is not in the best interests  of
    the  whole  organism to overcome disease at this time, these techniques
    will   not   immediately   eliminate   the  disease.  Understanding the
    message of the disease will, however, indicate where you need  to  make
    life  changes, and become the first step toward a new relationship with
    your body and mind.

    And, finally, these and the  other  healing  techniques  in  this  text
    should  not be used apart from medical consultation.  "If you are sick,
    then you should see a doctor".   What  is  suggested  here  is  totally
    compatible  with  traditional  medical therapies and may assist them in
    helping the healing process.


                         SELF HEALING PROCEDURE SCRIPT


    Begin the visualization by becoming deeply  relaxed.   Using  your  own
    relaxation  method,  or  one  from RELAX.ZIP (available on this system)
    allow yourself to totally relax your mind and body,  so  that  you  are
    totally focused on your inner screen, so to speak.

    When you feel yourself deeply relaxed, go to  a  place  in  your  inner
    movie  (visualization)  that  is  very beautiful and very peaceful.  It
    might be a quiet, empty beach with  waves  gently  billowing  onto  the
    sand.   Or  it could be a lovely meadow on a glorious spring afternoon.
    Or it might be a place where you've vacationed and where  you  remember
    being very happy and relaxed.

    When  you  feel  yourself very comfortable in this beautiful place, look
    around for a person or an animal.  If you don't see it at  first,  keep
    looking within your minds eye.

    When the figure appears, ask it to talk with you.  Tell it why you have
    come looking for it.  Tell it that you need its help.

    Allow  yourself  to  be with this figure as comfortably as you would be
    with a friend in your own living room.  It is a part  of  you.   It  is
    your own creation.  It is benign...it is there to help you!

    When  you  feel  comfortable  and  accepting of your advisor (person or
    animal), ask it the question you have been wanting to ask.  Ask  it  to
    kindly  tell  you  the  message  of  your  illness  or pain.  Then wait
    patiently and receptively for the answer.  If an  answer  doesn't  come
    immediately,  ask  your  adviser  how  you  can find the answer to your
    question.

    Keep asking questions until you have the answers that you have  sought.
    When  your  answers  come and you feel satisfied that they are what you
    sought, that your adviser and tell it that you  will  return  again  to
    visit with it.

    Allow  yourself  to  come  back into the here and now of outer reality.
    Allow yourself to feel good and to feel that you have  found  out  what
    you wanted to know.

    Allow yourself to use the information you have received with wisdom and
    love.   Allow  yourself  to return to the beautiful place where you met
    with your adviser whenever you feel a need for guidance.

    Allow  yourself  to  know  that  "YOU"  are giving yourself a great and
    important gift by discovering the message of your illness or pain.



    May you find the peace that you deserve, and may this text  assist  you
    in your task ahead....
                                                The Wizard Ariel>

    EOF>
