
                     HEALING A COMMUNICATION WITH YOURSELF


                         VISUALIZATION FOR ENERGY FLOW



    This  is  a  minds picture (visualization) that is based on the Chinese
    concept of CHI, or life energy, which circulates into and  out  of  the
    body  from  the  earth and cosmos and flows through it along prescribed
    circuits or meridians, in an ever-continuing cycle.



    Begin by relaxing your body and breathing deeply from the abdomen. When
    you feel relaxed, focus your  eyes  inward  and  begin  to  see  energy
    streaming  through  your  body, warming you, vitalizing you, energizing
    you and cleansing you.

    As you inhale bring a wave of energy up the front part  of  your  body,
    beginning with your toes and moving to the top of your head.

    As  you  exhale see the energy move down the back of your body, out the
    back of your heels and into the ground.

    The energy may take the  form  of  golden  or  white  light,  or  be  a
    vibratory sensation or resemble a flowing brook or molten lava, or be a
    series  of  lights  successively  turned on.  It makes no difference if
    your image is very similar to, or very different from, these; "Whatever
    you see is your unique and accurate perception of your inner process."

    Continue  to  circulate  the  energy  with  each  deep  inhalation  and
    exhalation.

    As  you  observe  the energy circulating through your body, be alert to
    areas of tension and blockage.  Direct the energy  to  penetrate  those
    places, to unblock them and soothe them.

    Allow the energy to massage every part of your inner body.

    When  you  feel  soothed,  relaxed, and revitalized, open your eyes and
    return to the here and now of physical reality.



    May you find the joy and peace that you  deserve,  and  may  this  text
    assist you in your healing process...

                                                The Wizard Ariel>

    EOF>
