
                     HEALING A COMMUNICATION WITH YOURSELF


                            NOISE-REMOVAL BREATHING



    Begin  by relaxing the body and breathing deeply from the abdomen. (The
    text on breathing is great to use as a pre-prep to this script)

    When completely relaxed, and as you "INHALE", imagine you have  a  nose
    in  your  feet,  a nostril in the bottom of each foot, between mid-arch
    and the sole of each foot.  (Keep  your  wits  now!)   Imagine  as  you
    breathe in deeply that you are pulling in air up through your feet.

    Feel  as if each breath coming in through your feet and up through your
    legs and body is swirling up through the tensions,  toxins,  tiredness,
    and  other noise that had been cluttering the tissues and cells of that
    part of your body.  Feel your breath swirling through and carrying away
    all that unwanted stuff.  Feel your exhaled breath carrying that  noise
    out of your body, carrying away anything that doesn't belong.

    Feel  your "EXHALED" breath to be laden with that stuff you are pulling
    up and carrying out of your  system,  so  much  from  you  system  just
    pouring  into  your  breath  that your breath begins to actually "FEEL"
    warm and rich.  That extra warmth and richness is felt especially  near
    the  end  of your exhaled breath, so really push that noise out of your
    system by exhaling very deeply.

    As you pull noise up from your body and push it out with your  exhaled,
    breath, you are not only cleaning up your system but doing a good thing
    by creating a lot of new life energy.

    Keep   noise-removal  breathing  very  deeply,  pulling  noise  up  and
    loosening it with your breath, and especially breathe out very  deeply,
    and  sooner  or  later  you  will  experience through you noise-removal
    process heat in your throat and  upper  chest  near  the  end  of  each
    exhaled breath.

    Experimentally noise-removal breathe in through different parts of your
    body.  Feel a real pull as your breath comes in through those different
    areas, swirling up and carrying away the noise you are pushing out with
    your exhaled warm, rich breath.

    Keep freeing your mind-brain-body-spirit system with this noise-removal
    breathing,  feeling  all  kinds  of  stuff  coming  out.  When you feel
    drained of all the noises in your body  and  mind,  come  fully  alert,
    feeling terrifically good.

    Now  that  you  have  estabilished  this  experience  of  noise removal
    breathing, you can turn the process on at any time,  in  any  level  of
    consciousness.



    May  you  find  the  joy  and peace that you deserve, and may this text
    assist you in your healing process...

                                                The Wizard Ariel>


    EOF>
