
                     HEALING A COMMUNICATION WITH YOURSELF


                           HEALING SPECIFIC AILMENTS


    STEP 1

    Visualize   "HEALING  ENERGY"  circulating  through  and  soothing  the
    disharmonious part of you.  This energy might appear as golden or white
    light, or in another form that you recognize as healing.

    If your energy is low and your're feeling  tired,  depressed,  weak  or
    chilled,  breathe  in energy from imagined sunlight.  If you're feeling
    hyperactive and restless, see your excess energy  flowing  out  through
    your feet into the ground.

    When  you know that "HEAT" is an appropriate medical remedy (check with
    your doctor), visualize and feel warmth in the sick  or  injured  area.
    This  facilitates  the flow of blood with its healing properties to the
    area.  (Sometimes refered to as Autogenic Therapy -  Developed  by  Dr.
    J.H. Schultz and Wolfgang Luthe).


    STEP 2

    Visualize  the "HEALING PROCESS".  This can be either symbolic or based
    on images from medical texts or X-Rays.

    Begin  by  picturing  your  disorder,  mental  or  physical.    Kenneth
    Pelletier  says  that  if it looks exactly like what you expected, odds
    are that  the  image  is  wrong;  it's  more  likely  to  be  something
    completely unexpected.

    Examine  the picture in as much detail as possible.  Then transform the
    picture into a positive image.  See the disease actually healing,  VERY
    IMPORTANT!  (For more information consult the book by Dr. Mike Samuels,
    called...Be Well)


    STEP 3

    Visualize a "STATE OF WELLNESS".  In this visualization, see  the  sick
    or  injured  part  of  you as healed and your whole person as radiantly
    healthy.  See yourself as you wish to  be:  happy,  energized,  feeling
    positive  about  your  life.   Another  important  factor  is  think to
    yourself the words "RADIATE" "RADIATE" "RADIATE", and feel  the  energy
    flow throughout your body and soul.

    Recall  yourself  at  the  healthiest time of your life, with the added
    bonus of your present maturity.  Sense  how  you  were  then:  how  you
    breathed, felt, moved, and looked at the time.

    See  yourself  in  this marvelous healthy state walking in the sunshine
    and feeling in tune with life.  Know that this is how you  "ARE"  right
    now, just beneath the symptoms that mask your wellness.



    May  you  find  the peace and joy you deserve, and may this text assist
    you in your healing process...

                                                The Wizard Ariel>

    EOF>
