
                     HEALING A COMMUNICATION WITH YOURSELF


                          VISUALIZATION FOR FIRST AID


    This  script  guides  you  through the psychological effects of medical
    traumas.  By repeating the behavior at the time of the accident, in the
    minds eye, you remove the ill-effects of the emotions  associated  with
    the  upset.   Positive  reaframation  is the key to the success of this
    script...

    Example: If you have burned your hand on the stove, you review in  your
    imagination all the things that happened just before, during, and after
    the accident.

    This  reduces the fear associated with the event and again focuses your
    attention on the injured part that you  have  avoided  because  of  the
    pain.   The  very  "FEAR" and avoidance unconsciously block the healing
    process, by decreasing the blood flow to the hands, feet,  and  injured
    part of the body.



                          Let's Begin with the Script


    Pick a time interval surrounding the injury, say five seconds before to
    ten  seconds afterward.  Following one sensation at a time, review this
    time interval.  Include such sensations as pain, awareness  of  injured
    parts, temperature, sounds, words, actions, attitudes, and thoughts.

    Go  over  the  sam  time interval, being aware of all the sensations at
    once, as they actually happened.  Repeat the action in your mind's  eye
    and   in  pantomine,  if  necessary.   (act  out  the  experience)  Pay
    particular attention to thoughts and attitudes in this total sensation.

    Repeat steps one and two until the pain stops  or  greatly  diminishes.
    This may take between five minutes to an hour.

    Build up an awareness of the injured part and see it having been healed
    and  normal  again.   Repeat  this  frequently  during  and  after  the
    emergency assist.



    May you find the joy and happiness that you deserve, and may this  text
    help you in your healing process...

                                                The Wizard Ariel>

    EOF>
