ab:init2.txt                                                    16jan90


                        Initiation of the Second Degree

    HPS casts Circle as usual. Esbat rite is followed to end
of Invocation of the Horned God.    

    Candidate, properly prepared (in centre of Circle), is bound and 
blindfolded as in the First Degree, but with the addition of a blue cord
bound about the knees. Hierophant leads Candidate to each Quarter in turn,
proclaiming:

        H: "Hear ye O Mighty Ones of the East [S, W, N], N...., 
            a duly consecrated Priest(ess) and Witch is now 
            properly prepared to be made a High Priest and 
            Magus (High Priestess and Witch Queen)."

    Candidate is returned to center, facing altar. Coven links hands
and thrice circle C.    

    Candidate is now assisted to kneel and rebound securely, facing altar.
Hierophant says:

        H: "To attain to this sublime degree, it is necessary to suffer
            and be purified. Art thou willing to suffer to learn ?"

        C: "I am."

        H: "I purify thee to take this great Oath rightly."

    The bell is rung thrice and purification follows: 3, 7, 9, 21 (=40) 
strokes. Scourge and bell are returned to the altar as Hierophant says: 

        H: "I now give thee a new name, N.... What is thy name ?"
           (giving light smack or push)

        C: "My name is N.... ."

    Each member of the Coven in turn gives Candidate a light swat or push,
asking:

        Each Covener: "What is thy name ?"

    Candidate responds to each with his (her) new name. When all have put
the question, all return to their places and H. administers the Oath
saying:

        H: "Repeat thy new name after me: I, N...., swear upon my mother's
            womb, and by mine honour among men and my Brothers and Sisters
            of the Art, that I will never reveal, to any at all, any of the
            secrets of the Art, except it be to a worthy person, properly
            prepared, in the center of a Magic Circle such as I am now in;
            and that I will never deny the secrets to such a person, if he
            or she has been properly vouched for by a Brother or Sister of
            the Art. All this I swear by my hopes of salvation, my past
            lives and my hopes of future ones to come; and I devote myself 
            and my measure to utter destruction if I break this my solemn
            oath."

    Kneeling, H. places left hand under Candidate's knee and right hand
upon his (her) head to form the Magical Link and concentrates long enough
to fully charge C., saying:

        H: "I will all my power into thee."

    Candidate's knees and ankles are now unbound, and he/she is assisted
to rise. Hierophant takes up oil and anoints C. at pubes, right breast,
left hip, right hip, left breast, and above pubic hair again, saying:

        H: "I consecrate thee with oil."

    And again with wine, saying:

        H: "I consecrate thee with wine."

    And lastly kisses Candidate in the same pattern:

        H: "I consecrate thee with my lips,
            High Priest(ess) and Magus (Witch Queen)."

    The blindfold and cable-tow are now removed and the Initiate
is congratulated by coveners.

    H. takes up Magic Sword from altar, saying:
                                 
        H: "You will now show the use of each of the Working Tools in turn.
            First the Magic Sword." (S)

    (Initiate silently redraws Circle and returns Sword with a S.)

        H: "Second the Athame." (S)

    (Initiate again recasts Circle in silence. S)

        H: "Third, the White-Hilted Knife." (S)

    (Initiate inscribes pentagram in new white candle. S)

        H: "Fourth, the Wand." (S)

    (Initiate circumambulates presenting Wand to each Quarter. S)

        H: "Fifth, the Cup." (S)

    (Initiate consecrates wine; may be assisted by H. S)

        H: "Sixth, the Pentacle." (S)

    (Initiate consecrates cakes; may be assisted by H. S)

        H: "Seventh, the Cords." (S)

    (Initiate, with help from Partner, binds H. as s/he was bound
to take this degree. S)

        H: "Eighth, the Scourge. For learn, in Witchcraft you must ever
            give as you receive, but ever triple. So where I gave thee 
            three, return nine; where I gave thee seven, return twenty-one;
            where I gave thee nine, return twenty-seven; where I gave 
            thee twenty-one, return sixty-three."

    (Initiate gives 9, 21, 27, 63 = 120 strokes with Scourge.)

        H: "Though hast obeyed the Law. But mark well, when thou receivest
            good, so equally art thou bound to return good threefold."

    H. is unbound and assisted to rise, then leads Initiate to wach Quarter
in turn, saying:

        H: "Hear ye, Mighty Ones of the East [S. W. N.]:      
            N.... has been duly consecrated High Priest(ess) and Magus
            (Witch Queen)."

    H. leads Initiate back to center of Circle, saying:

        H: "Having learned this far, you must know why the Wicca are 
            called the Hidden Children of the Goddess."

    Proceed with the Legend of the Descent of the Goddess. Generally 
Initiate and Hierophant act the appropriate parts. H. appoints Narrator
and Guardian.

----------
-published in Janet and Stewart Farrar's "The Witches' Way"
-lots of other published sources too
