ab:initnote.txt                                                 13jan90



        O Thou who hast declared intent to become one of us, hear then that 
        which thou must know to do: Single is the race, single of men and of
        Gods, from a single source we both draw breath, but a difference  of
        power in everything keeps us apart, for we are as nothing but the 
        Gods stay forever. Yet we can, in greatness of minds, be like the
        Gods. Though we know not to what goal by day or in the night, Fate
        has  written that we shall run beyond all seas, and earth's last
        boundaries.  Beyond the Spring of night and the Heaven's vast
        expanse there lies  a majesty which is the domain of the Gods. Those
        who would pass through the Gates of Night and Day to that sweet
        place, which is between the  world of men and the domains of the
        Lords of the Outer Spaces, know  that unless there is truth in thy
        heart, thy every effort is doomed to  failure. HEAR THEN THE LAW:
        That thou lovest all things in nature. That thou walkest humbly in
        the ways of men and the ways of the Gods. Also it is the law that
        contentment thou shalt learn, through  suffering, and from long
        years, and from nobility of mind and of  purpose. FOR THE WISE NEVER
        GROW OLD. Their minds are nourished by living in the daylight of the
        Gods and if among the vulgar some  discoveries should arise
        concerning some maxims of thy belief in the  Gods so do thou, for
        the most part, keep silent. For there is a great  risk of those who
        straightaway vomit up that which they hast not  digested. And when
        someone shall say to thee, thou knowest naught and it bites thee
        naught, then knowest thou that thou hast begun the  work. And as
        sheep do not bring their food to the shepherd to show how  much they
        have eaten but digesting inwardly their provender do bear  outwardly
        wool and milk, even so, do not display the maxims to the vulgar, but
        rather the works that flow when they are digested.

----------
-This is part of Lady Sheba's First Degree Initiation Ritual, where it is 
 given as a speech made to the Candidiate by the High Priestess

