About .K.A.M., A Journal of Traditional Wicca 
 
Copyright 1987, .K.A.M. 
 
.K.A.M., A Journal of Traditional Wicca, is the official
publication of the Keepers of the Ancient Mysteries (.K.A.M.).
.K.A.M. is a fifteen year-old family of Covens existing for the
purposes of the worship of the Wiccan Gods, general religious
instruction, and the preservation of the classical Traditions of
the Wiccan Religion.  
 
.K.A.M. draws from and has Initiatory Lineage through the
Gardnerian, Alexandrian, Celtic and Eleusinean Traditions of
Wicca, and practices as a Tradition in its own right, using forms
drawn from all its roots. As Traditional Wiccans we believe in
careful study, formal Initiation by a qualified Priestess, and
the preservation of standards of the Craft, including respect for
privacy and the traditional bans on publishing Initiatory
material and accepting funds for teaching. 
 
The Journal exists as a means to communicate thoughts, feelings
and imagination in harmony with the goals and methods of the
Wiccan Traditions, including a love of the Earth, worship of the
Old Gods, adherence to Wiccan norms of behavior and a strong
sense of personal responsibility and commitment to growth. While
the bulk of the Journal material is likely to be drawn from
.K.A.M. Initiates and students, quality poetry, prose and artwork
in harmony with our principles of action will be gratefully
accepted. Copyright reverts to authors after publication. Please
write for submission guidelines. 
 
Letters to the Editors are not encouraged at this time, as we
feel they have not served the Craft well in the past. Well
thought out articles within the scope of the Journal are welcome.
Advertising is accepted if relevant to the Journal's readership
interests, but .K.A.M. in no way warrants or recommends the goods
or services listed. If you have a problem with an advertiser that
you cannot resolve with them, please let us know at once. 
 
Subscription in 1988 is $5 US for our current two-issue year.
Beginning in 1988 the Journal will be published on or about
Beltaine and Hallows. .K.A.M. will exercise its right to limit
subscription to exclude individuals and organizations we believe
to be harmful to Traditional Wicca. 
 
Persons desiring additional information about Traditional Wicca
or .K.A.M. are encouraged to write at the address below. We
reserve the right to respond selectively to inquiries. 
 
.K.A.M. 
P.O. Box 2513 
Kensington, MD 20895 
U.S.A. 
 
 
 
          
     