ab:laws.txt                                                     13jan90


                        THE OLD LAW - PUBLISHED VERSION
                        -------------------------------

1. The Law was made and ordained of old.
2. The Law was made for the Wicca, to advise and help in their 
   troubles.
3. The Wicca should give due worship to the gods and obey their will,
   which they ordain, for it was made for the good of Wicca as the 
   worship of the Wicca is good for the gods. For the gods love the 
   brethren of Wicca.
4. As a man loveth a woman by mastering her,
5. So should the Wicca love the gods by being mastered by them.
6. And it is necessary that the Circle which is the temple of the gods,
   should be truly cast and purified.  And that it may be a fit place 
   for the gods to enter.
7. And the Wicca shall be properly prepared and purified to enter into 
   the presence of the gods.
8. With love and worship in their hearts, they shall raise power from 
   their bodies to give power to the gods.
9. As has been taught of old.
10.For in this way only may men have communion with the gods, for the gods 
   cannot help man without the help of man.

HPS & HP
11.And the High Priestess shall rule her coven as the representative 
   of the Goddess.
12.And the High Priest shall support her as the representative of the 
   God.
13.And the High Priestess shall choose whom she will, be he of 
   sufficient rank, to be her High Priest.
14.For, as the God Himself kissed Her feet in the five-fold salute, 
   laying His power at the feet of the Goddess because of Her youth and 
   beauty, Her sweetness and kindness, Her wisdom and justice, Her 
   humility and generosity,
15.So He resigned all His power to Her.
16.But the High Priestess should ever mind that the power comes from 
   Him.
17.It is only lent, to be used wisely and justly.
18.And the greatest virtue of a High Priestess be that she recognize that 
   youth is necessary to the representative of the Goddess.
19.So she will gracefully retire in favour of a younger woman should 
   the Coven so decide in council.
20.For a true High Priestess realizes that gracefully surrendering 
   pride of place is one of the greatest virtues.
21.And that thereby she will return to that pride of place in another 
   life, with greater power and beauty.

SECURITY
22.In the old days, when witchdom extended far, we were free and 
   worshipped in all the greater temples.
23.But in these unhappy times we must celebrate our sacred mysteries
   in secret.
24.So be it ordained that none but the Wicca may see our mysteries, for 
   our enemies are many and torture loosens the tongue of man. 
25.So be it ordained that no Coven shall know where the next Coven bide. 
26.Or who its members be, save only the Priest and Priestess and messenger.
27.And there shall be no communication between them, save by the messenger
   of the gods, or the summoner.
28.And only if it be safe may the Covens meet in some safe place for 
   the great festivals.
29.And while there, none shall say whence they came nor give their true 
   names.
30.To this end, that if any be tortured, in their agony, they may not tell
   if they do not know.
31.So be it ordained that no one shall tell anyone not of the craft who be
   of the Wicca, nor give any names or where they bide, or in any way tell
   anything which can betray any of us to our foes.
32.Nor may he tell where the Covendom be. 
33.Or the Covenstead.
34.Or where the meetings be.
35.And if any break these Laws, even under torture, THE CURSE OF THE 
   GODDESS SHALL BE UPON THEM, so they may never be reborn on earth and 
   may remain where they belong, in the hell of the Christians.

DISPUTES
36.Let each High Priestess govern her Coven with justice and love, with 
   the help and advice of the High Priest and the Elders, always 
   heeding the advice of the Messenger of the Gods if he cometh.
37.She will heed all complaints of all Brothers and strive to settle 
   all differences among them.
38.But it must be recognized that there will always be people who will 
   ever strive to force others to do as they will.
39.These are not necessarily evil.
40.And they oft have good ideas and such ideas should be talked over in 
   council.
41.But if they will not agree with their Brothers, or if they say, 
42."I will not work under this High Priestess,"
43.It hath ever been the Old Law to be convenient to the Brethren and 
   to avoid disputes.

NEW COVENS
44.Any of the third may claim to found a new Coven because they live over
   a league away from the Covenstead or are about to do so.
45.Anyone living within the Covendom and wishing to form a new Coven, 
   shall tell the Elders of their intention, and on the instant avoid 
   their dwelling and remove to the new Covendom.
46.Members of the old Coven may join the new one when it is formed.  
   But if they do, they must utterly avoid the old Coven.
47.The Elders of the new and old Covens should meet in peace and 
   brotherly love to decide the new boundaries. 
48.Those of the craft who dwell outside both Covendoms may join either but 
   not both.
49.Though all may, if the Elders agree, meet for the great festivals if 
   it be truly in peace and brotherly love,
50.But splitting the Coven oft means strife, so for this reason these 
   Laws were made of old and may the CURSE OF THE GODDESS BE ON ANY WHO 
   DISREGARD THEM. So be it ordained.

GRIMOIRE
51.If you would keep a book, let it be in your own hand of write.  Let 
   brothers and sisters copy what they will, but never let the book out 
   of your hands, and never keep the writings of another.
52.For if it be found in their hand of write, they may be taken and arraigned.
53.Let each guard his own writings and destroy them whenever danger threatens.
54.Learn as much as you may by heart and, when danger is past, 
   rewrite your book, an it be safe.
55.For this reason, if any die, destroy their book an they have not 
   been able to.
56.For, an it be found, 'tis clear proof against them.
57.And our oppressors know well "Ye may not be a witch alone".
58.So all their kin and friends be in danger of torture,
59.So destroy everything not necessary.
60.If your book be found on you, 'tis clear proof against you alone, 
   you may be arraigned.

PERSECUTION
61.Keep all thoughts of the craft from your mind.
62.If the torture be too great to bear, say "I will confess.  I cannot 
   bear this torture.  What do you want me to say?"
63.If they try to make you speak of the Brotherhood, do not.
64.But if they try to make you speak of impossibilities such as flying through
   the air, consorting with a Christian devil or sacrificing children, or 
   eating men's flesh,
65.To obtain relief from torture say "I had an evil dream, I was beside 
   myself, I was crazed."
66.Not all magistrates are bad, if there be an excuse, they may show 
   mercy.
67.If you have confessed aught, deny it afterwards, say you babbled 
   under torture, say you knew not what you said.
68.If you are condemned, fear not.
69.The Brotherhood is powerful and will help you to escape if you stand
   steadfast, but if you betray aught there is no hope for you in this life
   or in that to come.
70.Be sure, if steadfast you go to the pyre, drugs will reach you, you will 
   feel naught. You go to death and what lies beyond, the ecstasy of the 
   goddess.

TOOLS
71.To avoid discovery, let the working tools be as ordinary things 
   that any may have in their houses.
72.Let the pentacles be of wax so that they may be broken at once or 
   melted.
73.Have no sword unless your rank allows it.
74.Have no names or signs on anything.
75.Write the names and signs on them in ink before consecrating them 
   and wash it off immediately afterwards.
76.Let the colours of the hilts tell which is which.
77.Do not engrave them lest they cause discovery.

CONDUCT
78.Ever remember ye are the hidden children of the Goddess so never do 
   anything to disgrace them or Her.
79.Never boast, never threaten, never say you would wish ill of anyone.
80.If any person not in the Circle, speak of the craft, say, "Speak not
   to me of such, it frightens me, 'tis evil luck to speak of it."
81.For this reason, the Christians have their spies everywhere. These speak
   as if they were well affected to us, as if they would come to our meetings,
   saying, "My mother used to worship the Old Ones. I would I could go myself."
82.To such as these, ever deny all knowledge.
83.But to others, ever say, "'Tis foolish men talk of witches flying through 
   the air. To do so they must be as light as thistledown. And men say that 
   witches all be blear-eyed old crones, so what pleasure can there be at a 
   witch meeting such as folks talk on ?"
84.And say, "Many wise men now say there be no such creatures."
85.Ever make it jest) and in some future time perhaps, the 
   persecution may die and we may worship our gods in safety again.
86.Let us all pray for that happy day.
87.May the blessings of the Goddess and God be on all who keep these 
   Laws which are ordained.

VALUABLES
88.If the craft hath any appanage, let all guard it and help to keep it 
   clear and good for the craft.
89.And let all justly guard all monies of the craft.
90.And if any Brother truly wrought it, 'tis right they have their pay, 
   an it be just.  An this be not taking money for the art, but for 
   good and honest work.
91.And even the Christians say, "The labourer is worthy of his hire," 
      but if any Brother work willingly for the good of the craft without 
      pay, 'tis but to their greater honour.  So be it ordained.

QUARRELS
92.   If there be any dispute or quarrel among the Brethren, the High 
      Priestess shall straightly convene the Elders and inquire into the 
      matter, and they shall hear both sides, first alone and then 
      together.
93.   And they shall decide justly, not favouring one side or the other.
94.   Ever recognising there be people who can never agree to work under 
      others.
95.   But at the same time, there be some people who cannot rule justly.
96.   To those who must ever be chief, there is one answer.
97.   "'Void the Coven or seek another one, or make a Coven of your own, 
      taking with you those who will go."
98.   To those who cannot rule justly, the answer be, "Those who cannot 
      bear your rule will leave you."
99.   For none may come to meetings with those with whom they are at 
      variance.
100.  So, an either cannot agree, get hence, for the craft must ever 
      survive.  So be it ordained.

CURSES
101.In the olden days when we had power, we could use the art against any 
    who ill-treated the Brotherhood. But in these evil days we must not
    do so. For our enemies have devised a burning pit of everlasting fire 
    into which they say their god casteth all the people who worship him,
    except it be the very few who are released by their priest's spells
    and masses. And this be chiefly by giving monies and rich gifts to
    receive his favour for their great god is ever in need of money.
102.But as our gods need our aid to make fertility for man and crops, so 
    is the god of the Christians ever in need of man's help to search out
    and destroy us. Their priests ever tell them that any who get our help
    are damned to this hell forever, so men be mad with the terror of it.
103.But they make men believe that they may escape this hell if they give
    victims to the tormentors. So for this reason all be forever spying,
    thinking, "An I can catch but one of these Wicca, I will escape from 
    this fiery pit."
104.So for this reason we have our hidels, and men searching long and not 
    finding, say, "There be none, or if there be, they be in a far country."
105.But when one of our oppressors die, or even be sick, ever is the cry,
    "This be witches' malice", and the hunt is up again. And though they slay
    ten of their own to one of ours, still they care not. They have countless
    thousands.
106.While we are few indeed. So be it ordained.
107.That none shall use the art in any way to do ill to any.
108.However much they may injure us, harm none. And nowtimes many believe 
    we exist not.
109.That this Law shall ever continue to help us in our plight, no one,
    however great an injury or injustice they receive, may use 
    the art in any way to do ill, or harm any.  But they may, after 
    great consultations with all, use the art to restrain Christians from 
    harming us Brothers, but only to constrain them and never to punish.
110.To this end men will say, "Such a one is a mighty searcher out, and a 
    persecutor of old women whom they deemeth to be witches, and none hath
    done him harm, so it be proof that they cannot or more truly there be 
    none."
111.For all know full well that so many folk have died because someone had
    a grudge against them, or were persecuted because they had money or goods
    to sieze, or because they had none to bribe the searchers. And many have 
    died because they were scolding old women. So much that men now say that
    only old women are witches.
112.And this be to our advantage and turns suspicion away from us.
113.In England and Scotland 'tis now many a year since a witch hath died the 
    death. But any misuse of the power might raise the persecution again.
114.So never break this Law, however much you are tempted, and never 
    consent to its being broken in the least.
115.If you know it is being broken, you must work strongly against it.
116.And any High Priestess or High Priest who consents to its breach 
    must immediately be deposed for 'tis the blood of the Brethren they 
    endanger.
117.Do good, an it be safe, and only if it be safe.
118.And keep strictly to the Old Law.

PAYMENT
119.Never accept money for the use of the art, for money ever smeareth 
    the taker.  'Tis sorcerors and conjurers and the priests of the
    Christians who ever accept money for the use of their arts.  
    And they sell pardons to let men ascape from their sins.
120.Be not as these.  If you accept no money, you will be free from 
    temptation to use the art for evil causes.
121.All may use the art for their own advantage or for the advantage of 
    the craft only if you are sure you harm none.
122.But ever let the Coven debate this at length.  Only if all are 
    satisfied that none may be harmed, may the art be used.
123.If it is not possible to achieve your ends one way, perchance the 
    aim may be achieved by acting in a different way so as to harm 
    none.  MAY THE CURSE OF THE GODDESS BE ON ANY WHO BREAKETH THIS 
    LAW. So be it ordained.
124.'Tis judged lawful if ever any of the craft need a house or land and 
    none will sell, to incline the owner's mind so as to be willing to 
    sell, provided it harmeth him not in any way and the full price is 
    paid without haggling.
125.Never bargain or cheapen anything whilst you buy by the art.  So be 
    it ordained.

LAW OF THE LAND
126."Tis the Old Law and the most important of all laws, that no one may 
    do anything which will endanger any of the craft, or bring them into 
    contact with the law of the land or any persecutors.
127.In any dispute between Brethren, no one may invoke any laws but 
    those of the craft.
128.Or any tribunal but that of the Priestess, Priest and Elders.

DISCUSSION OF WITCHCRAFT
129.It is not forbidden to say as Christians do, "There be witchcraft in
    the land," because our oppressors of old make it a heresy not to     
    believe in witchcraft and so a crime to deny it which thereby puts you
    under suspicion.
130.But ever say, "I know not of it here, perchance there may be but afar 
    off, I know not where."
131.But ever speak of them as old crones, consorting with the devil and
    riding through the air.
132.And ever say, "But how may many ride the air if they be not as light
    as thistledown."
133.But the curse of the Goddess be on any who cast suspicion on any of 
    the Brotherhood.
134.Or who speak of any real meeting-place or where they bide.

WORTCUNNING
135.Let the craft keep books with the names of all herbs which are good, 
    and all cures so all may learn.
136.But keep another book with all the Bales and Apies and let only the 
    Elders and other trustworthy people have this knowledge.  So be it ordained.
137.And may the blessings of the gods be on all who keep these Laws, and 
    the curses of both the God and the Goddess be on all who break them.

USE OF THE ART
138.Remember the art is the secret of the gods and may only be used in 
    earnest and never for show or vainglory.
139.Magicians and Christians may taunt us saying, "You have no power, 
    show us your power. Do magic before our eyes, then only will we believe," 
    seeking to cause us to betray the art before them.
140.Heed them not, for the art is holy and may only be used in need, 
    and the curse of the gods be on any who break this Law.

RESIGNATIONS
141.It ever be the way with women and with men also, that they ever seek 
    new love.
142.Nor should we reprove them for this.
143.But it may be found a disadvantage to the craft.
144.And so many a time it has happened that a High Priest or a High 
    Priestess, impelled by love, hath departed with their love.  That 
    is, they left the Coven.
145.Now if the High Priestess wishes to resign, she may do so in full 
    Coven.
146.And this resignation is valid.
147.But if they should run off without resigning, who may know if they 
    may not return in a few months?
148.So the Law is, if a High Priestess leaves her Coven, she be taken 
    back and all be as before.
149.Meanwhile, if she has a deputy, that deputy shall act as High 
    Priestess for as long as the High Priestess is away.      
50.If she returns not at the end of a year and a day, then shall the 
    Coven elect a new High Priestess,
151.Unless there is a good reason to the contrary.
152.The person who has done the work should reap the benefit of the 
    reward. If somebody else is elected, the deputy is made maiden 
    and deputy of the High Priestess.

TRAINING
153.It has been found that practicing the art doth cause a fondness 
    between aspirant and tutor, and it is the cause of better results if 
    this be so.
154.And if for any reason this be undesireable, it can easily be avoided
    by both persons from the outset firmly resolving in their minds
    to be as brother and sister or parent and child.
155.And it is for this reason that a man may be taught only by a woman
    and a woman by a man, and women and women should not attempt these 
    practices together.  So be it ordained.

PUNISHMENT
156.Order and discipline must be kept.
157.A High Priestess or a High Priest may, and should, punish all 
    faults.
158.To this end all the craft must receive correction willingly.
159.All properly prepared, the culprit kneeling should be told his fault 
    and his sentence pronounced.
160.Punishment should be followed by something amusing.
161.The culprit must acknowledge the justice of the punishment by 
    kissing the hand on receiving sentence and again thanking for 
    punishment received.  So be it ordained.

-----
-These Laws appear to have become part of the GBG BOS shortly after Doreen 
 Valiente left his Coven (in 1957); they existed at the time that she left.
 (They were an innovation at that time, and were one of the things that 
 the people who hived at that time refused to accept, though not themselves
 a reason for hiving.) See Doreen Valiente's "The Rebirth of Witchcraft".
-Some of this material was already in the GBG BOS at the time. See the
 Farrars' "The Witches' Way".
-They also seem to be present throughout the Alexandrain stream.
 (See the Farrars' "The Witches Way", and June Johns' "King of the 
 Witches".)
-The list I give here is drawn from several published sources:
        June Johns,"King of the Witches"
        Lady Sheba,"The Grimoire of Lady Sheba"
        Janet and Stewart Farrar,"The Witches' Way"
 I used Johns as my primary source, as Sheba is generally full of copyist
 errors, and the Farrars don't give the full text.
 I couldn't find the section headings in any published source, but I included
 them anyway because they make the text easier to follow.
-Sheba *may* be a more accurate source than Johns for the GBG version. 
 (Some of what I took to be typos may well have been GBG-ism's.)
 Johns is probably a better source for Alex Sanders' own version.
 Covens in either lineage have probably cross referenced and 'corrected'
 what they took to be errors. (For example, in Law 60, I use the word 
 'arraigned'. Sheba gives 'engained', which makes no sense (that we know 
 of). However, 'engined' (meaning tortured) makes more sense in context
 than 'arraigned'. Did Alex Sanders mis-correct the 'engained' error ?

