I. ON JOINING A COVEN 

  A. Reasons for joining a Coven 

    1. To experience a sense of community. 

      a. As Crafters, we seem to stand slightly to one side of 
mainstream society. 

        (1) This setting apart makes us feel as though we are alone 
and surrounded by people who do not understand us. 

           (a) A coven brings together like minded people who can form 
a surrogate clan or tribe, which then serves as a support group. 

           (b) Most newcomers to the Craft express their feelings at 
Covenmeets as a 'coming home' or finding 'their people.' 

    2. To find religious freedom 

      a. Most Crafters have had a lifetime of religious bigotry with 
which to contend. 

      b. Consequently they are more willing to tolerate other peoples 
beliefs. 

        (1) And, because of their emphasis on direct experience with 
the Goddess, they are not so quick to condemn your experiences as the 
result of psychosis or delusion. 

           (a) In most cases, they have had the same or similar 
experiences. 

    3. To receive training in psychic development. 

      a. A Coven serves as the training ground in which each member 
develops her/his personal power. 

        (1) The support and security of the group reinforces each 
member's belief in themselves. 

           (a) Psychic training opens new awareness and abilities. 

           (b) And feedback from the group becomes the ever present 
mirror in which we 'see ourselves as others see us.' 

    4. To gain power over others 

      a. Many times this is the strongest motivation for becoming a 
witch and joining a Coven. 

     
      b. The perceived need to gain power over others is a desperate 
cry for help which indicates an insecure and frightened individual. 

        (1) Patriarchal systems teach that there are a privileged few 
who manipulate the masses and we are led to believe that our own self 
worth is direct proportion to the power we hold over other people. 

           (a) This mindset leads to the view of fellow humans as 
being both competitors that must be 'beaten' and as potential slaves. 

      c. One of the major objectives of the first degree training of a 
witch is to get the potential witch to face the Self truthfully. 

        (1) During this process the witch examines her/his own 
motivations and internal programming. 

           (a) This is in keeping with the Hermetic maxim to "know 
thyself". 

        (2) As the witch comes to realize that the need to have power 
over others stems from a lack of power over one's own self, s/he is 
taught techniques which lead to gaining control over their own lives 
and that build personal power. 

           (a) With personal power, the need to dominate others 
subsides along with feelings of powerlessness. 

II. TYPICAL STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION OF A COVEN. 

  A. Structure 

    1. The structure of the craft is cellular, based on small circles 
whose members share a deep commitment to each other and the craft. 

      a. The craft tends to attract people who, by nature, do not like 
to join groups. 

        (1) The coven structure makes it possible for rabid 
individualists to experience a deep sense of community without losing 
their independence of spirit. 

           (a) Even so, because the coven becomes a family, that makes 
demands upon its members, just as any family does, there are crafters 
who cannot function within the strictures of a coven. 

           (b) These crafters usually work their rites alone except 
for those rare occasions when they can join their brothers and sisters 
in the celebration of the Mysteries. 


           (c) These people are rightly called Solitaries or Solos, 
and their dedication to the craft requires them to forego the 
camaraderie of a support group such as a coven. 

    2. A coven, by tradition, never (?) contains more than thirteen 
members. 

      a. In such a small group, each person's presence or absence 
affects the rest. 

        (1) The group is colored by every individual's likes, 
dislikes, beliefs and tastes. 

      b. Some, less traditional, covens consist of any number of 
members from 3 - 20. 

        (1) Many times this comes about because of the many people who 
wish to work in the craft and the shortage of qualified leaders to 
accommodate everyone. 

           (a) Other factors that may affect the size of a coven are 
the group's philosophy, the size of the working circle, and the 
available members. 

    3. Originally, the members of a coven were the teachers and 
priestesses/priests of a large pagan population of non- initiates. 

      a. They formed the Council of Elders in each clan, the wisewomen 
and wisemen who delved beneath the surface of their rites and sought 
the deeper meanings. 

        (1) At the Sabbats, they led the rituals, organized the 
gatherings, and expounded upon the meanings of the ceremonies. 

    4. Each coven had its own territory, which by tradition extended 
for a league in all directions (about 3 miles). 

      a. When a new coven hived off from an established one, they were 
expected to honor the league rule and move off away from the 
established territory. 

        (1) This allowed the new and old covens some elbow room and 
discouraged the new coven members from running to the old coven 
leaders whenever things did not go smoothly. 

           (a) It is impractical in a modern urban setting to observe 
the league rule, but new coven members should at least try to keep 
their distance from their old coven except during community 
gatherings. 

        (2) As mentioned above, neighboring covens might join together 
for the Great Sabbats in order to share knowledge, herbs, spells and 
(of course) gossip. 

    5. Every coven is autonomous 

      a. Each coven functions as its own authority in matters of 
ritual, thealogy, and training. 

        (1) Groups of covens who follow the same rites may consider 
themselves part of the same tradition. 

           (a) Some traditions make provisions for the leaders of 
parent covens that have other covens hive off to receive recognition 
for their work. 

      b. The reputation of a coven in the community is many times all 
that other covens have to go on when determining whether it invite 
them to gatherings or not. 

        (1) This means that the integrity of the coven leaders coupled 
with the reputation of its members as being sincere followers of the 
Path is what a coven is judged by. 

           (a) The craft is a religion that is lived, and if the lives 
of this members do not reflect the teaching of the craft, then the 
reputation of the coven suffers. 

B. Organization 

    1. Officers 

      a. Every group which hopes to accomplish anything must have 
people who provide leadership and organization and the craft is no 
exception. 

        (1) Most covens are led primarily by a High Priestess, who has 
gone through a lengthy training program in magic, psychic development, 
ritual and leadership as well as thealogy. 

         
           (a) During ritual the Goddess is invoked into the High 
Priestess and she is treated accordingly. 

           (b) Outside of ritual the High Priestess acts as the final 
authority when deciding coven policy, but to disagree with her is not 
an offense against the Goddess as some have espoused. 

        (2) In those covens that recognize the God as separate from 
the Goddess, the High Priestess shares her authority and 
responsibilities with her High Priest. 

           (a) As with the Goddess, the God is invoked into the High 
Priest during some rituals. 

           (b) In covens that do not recognize the God as separate 
from the Goddess, the High Priest is subservient and below the High 
Priestess is authority. 

           (c) It is extremely rare to find a High Priestess that is 
below or subservient to the High Priest in this day and age. 

        (3) Traditionally, the High Priestess is aided by the Maiden. 

           (a) The Maiden is usually a Priestess-in-training or a 
visiting High Priestess. 

           (b) Some traditions call for the Maiden to be the daughter 
of the High Priestess and in some cases this is satisfied by having 
the High Priestess 'adopt' the Maiden when she accepts her as a 
Priestess-in-training. 

           (c) It is the Maidens duty to assist the High Priestess 
during ritual by handing her equipment, keeping the candles and 
incense going, etc. 

        (4) Some Traditions make allowances for a Summoner. 

           (a) The Summoner, also called Puck, is responsible for 
acting as the private messenger of the High Priestess. 

           (b) He may be a Priest-in-training or simply someone who is 
capable of being seen anywhere without arousing suspicion. 

           (c) Along with the High Priestess, he is usually the only 
one who knows all the other witches in the area with the possible 
exception of the High Priest. 

           (d) He is responsible for the mundane matters of the coven 
such as contacting coven members when a coven-meet is called, 
overseeing coven finances, buying ritual supplies, coordinating 
gatherings and providing light for the High Priestess or the High 
Priest as needed during circle. 

    2. Finances 

      a. The craft is not for sale. There are no fees for initiation 
and it is considered a breech of ethics to charge money for coven 
training. 

        (1) Covens might charge dues to cover expenses for candles, 
incense, and other necessities but no one profits from commercializing 
the craft for long. 

           (a) One of the tasks normally assigned to someone who is 
about to undergo initiation is to bring a bottle of wine or to provide 
some homemade Sabbat cakes for the ceremony. 

           (b) This is to impress upon the new initiate that everyone 
is responsible for providing for the circle according to their 
ability. 

           (c) More often than not, the coven members provide more 
than expected. Not to show off or gain favor, but because they want to 
contribute and have the ability. After the gathering the remains are 
offered to the feathered friends or sent home with other members who 
may have a need. 

           (d) There is no shame in admitting a need and taking home 
any leftover food or supplies, because it was all given in the spirit 
of providing according to one's ability and you do the provider the 
honor of seeing that the gifts do not go wasted. 

    3. Degrees of Training 

      a. Most traditions possess a system of degrees to denote the 
amount of training that the members of the coven have undergone. 

      b. Some traditions, such as the Welsh Celtic tradition taught in 
Georgia, go from the sublime to the ridiculous. 

        (1) This tradition claims to have nine levels of 
enlightenment. 

           (a) Most of which their leader believes even he may never 
reach. 

      c. Happily for the rest of us mortals, most other traditions 
only recognize three degrees when they recognize any at all. 

        (1) The 1st degree is the degree of the Initiate. 

           (a) Training for this degree consists mainly of learning 
the mythology and cosmology of the tradition, psychic and personal 
development, Low Magic or spellcasting, divination, and healing. 

        (2) Once you attain the 2nd degree, you become an Elder in the 
Coven. 

           (a) Training involves learning the laws of the tradition, 
ritual magic, folklore, Spirit contact and trance mediumship. 

        (3) The 3rd degree escorts you into the wonderful(?) world of 
being a Priest or Priestess. 

           (a) Training focuses on rituals of life such as Wiccanings, 
blessings, handfastings, and funereal ceremonies as well as training 
in leadership and group dynamics. 

           (b) Inner teachings are presented during this training and 
the Priest/ess is offered the option of leaving the group to start a 
coven of their own or remaining to serve on the Council of Elders as a 
representative of the Ancient Ones. 

      d. Some traditions have pre-initiation degrees that apply to 
what is called 'outer-court' teachings. 

        (1) Many times these teaching will consist of courses very 
similar to the ones associated with this series of lessons. 

           (a) No matter what the degree structure is, the important 
thing to remember is that the material you are supposed to learn on 
your way up is the foundation on which you build your future 
understanding. 

           (b) All too many people rush through the basics to collect 
as many degrees as possible only to find that they have wasted their 
time pursuing the illusion of prestige that goes along with the 
degrees and never gained the knowledge and experience the degrees are 
supposed to represent. 

III. THE COVEN PERSONA 

  A. Group Mind 

    1. Just as a mob of individuals can be galvanized into acting like 
a senseless animal, a coven can develop a group mind with its own 
goals and orientation. 

      a. The orientation that a coven developes can be quite varied. 

        (1) Some covens concentrate on healing or teaching. 

        (2) Others may lean towards psychic work, trance states, 
social action or creativity and inspiration. 

        (3) While others seem to throw great parties. 

  B. Group Power 

    1. In the craft, power is another word for that energy which is 
the subtle current of forces that shapes reality. 

      a. A powerful person is seen as someone who draws power into the 
group, not out of it. 

        (1) The sources of inner power are limited. 

           (a) One person's power does not diminish anothers; instead, 
as each covener comes into his or her power, the power of the group 
grows stronger. 


  C. Group Consciousness 

    1. One of the laws of magic is that as thoughtforms are fed 
regularly they grow into self-sufficiency. 

      a. This is why religious sites that have been abandoned for ages 
still affect sensitive people who visit them. 

        (1) And why rituals performed the same way over and over again 
become more powerful with each repetition. 

    2. Once the thoughtform is fully formed it is brought into 
manifestation through repeatedly re-forming it. 

      a. Again, this is why rituals are performed over and over the 
same way. 

        (1) You are following a blueprint for a thoughtform and 
deviation produces a distorted thoughtform. 

      b. Once a coven has found its own orientation, it begins work on 
forming a thoughtform of the work it wishes to do. 

        (1) Eventually, the coven actualizes its thoughtforms and the 
group consciousness becomes a source of healing for the members of the 
coven and a reservoir of power that any member can draw on in need. 


IV. FINDING A COVEN TO JOIN 

  A. The Craft grows slowly. 

    1. Witchcraft will never be a mass-market religion, because it 
requires a great deal from its followers in the way of learning and 
practicing. 

      a. For this reason witches never proselytize. 

        (1) Prospective members are expected to seek out covens and 
demonstrate a deep level of interest. 

           (a) The strength of the craft is in the QUALITY of its 
members not the quantity. 

  B. Finding a Coven can be Difficult 

    1. Crafters are not usually listed in the Yellow Pages and rarely 
place classified ads. 

      a. However, they often give classes through Open Universities or 
metaphysical bookstores. 


        (1) And some Universities are beginning to offer courses about 
the craft in their religious studies programs. 

    2. The Circle Guide to Wicca and Pagan Resources 

      a. Guide published by Circle Publications in Wisconsin 

        (1) Serves as a resource guide to books, periodicals, arts, 
music, supplies and contacts in the Wiccan community in the United 
States, Canada, and Britain. 

    3. Occult Shops 

      a. Occult shops are usually listed in the yellow pages of the 
phone book if there are any in your area. 

        (1) If you make a good first impression, or are willing to 
establish yourself as a good customer, you might be able to get some 
leads from the manager. 

           (a) Many times a group leader will leave a phone number to 
be given out to a prospective member that the manager feels is 
sincere. 

           (b) Getting that number does not guarantee that you will 
get into a group but you will be closer than you were before. 

        (2) Most occult stores have community bulletin boards that 
advertise festivals open to the public. 

           (a) Chances are you will meet Crafters who are already in a 
coven or are about to form one at these festivals. 

           (b) If not, at least you will have the opportunity to 
celebrate the season with like minded people. 

           (c) It would not hurt your chances to learn as much as you 
can about the 8 sabbats so you will know when to look for the festival 
notices. 

           (d) Once you are at the festival, you should show off any 
skill you might have. Music, juggling, or a good sense of humor breaks 
down barriers faster than calling cards and black robes. 

    4. The best route is through personal contacts 

      a. Most Crafters feel that when a person is internally ready to 
join the craft, s/he will be drawn to the right people. 




    5. As a last resort, you can form your own group. 

      a. You do not have to be an hereditary, or even an initiated 
witch to form your own group. 

        (1) Stewart and Janet Farrar have provided the necessary 
framework for the Gardnerian tradition in their books. 

           (a) And Ray Buckland has provided instructions on how to 
form groups around the Seax Tradition that he created. 

      b. The school of trial and error is also a very fine one, 
although training by an established group helps a lot more and with a 
lot fewer surprises. 

        (1) A Witch I respect very much once replied to the charge 
that only an initiation can make someone a witch with the question 
"Who initiated the first witch?" 


V. GUIDELINES FOR EVALUATING PROSPECTIVE COVENS. 

  A. Do Your Homework 

    1. Before you join a coven you should try to learn as much about 
the craft as you can from books and other readily available material. 

      a. This will prevent you from looking foolish to whoever you 
contact and provides you with basic information to found your 
judgement on. 

  B. Trust Yourself. 

    1. Always listen to the guidance of your inner voice. 

      a. Pay attention to your inner feelings in sensing whether or 
not to pursue study, magical work, or other aspects of relationships 
with those you encounter. 

        (1) If you get good feelings, gradually allow a relationship 
to unfold. 

           (a) If you get bad feelings, do not get involved. 

        (2) If you get mixed feelings, feel somewhat uncomfortable, or 
feel unsure about some group or individual, hold off on getting more 
deeply involved until you can identify where your feelings are coming 
from and what they are trying to tell you. 




           (a) It might mean that those you have contacted are 
involved in negative magic of some sort. 

           (b) Or it might mean that you are shy about meeting new 
people. 

           (c) It could mean that the people, while not working 
negative magic, are just not right for you. 

        (3) Meditate on your feelings 

           (a) Remember that the High Self can only speak to us 
through the Younger Self who then speaks to us through feelings and 
emotions. 

           (b) Seek out your inner voice and follow its direction 
always. 

  C. Beware of others who try to convince you that theirs is the only 
proper way of development. 

    1. There are many traditions and many paths of the craft and THERE 
IS NO ONE WAY THAT IS RIGHT FOR EVERYONE. 

      a. Groups and individuals vary in size, structure, methods of 
working, cultural roots, and other factors. 

        (1) You should try to connect with the path or paths that seem 
to harmonize most with your own vibrations, needs, and interests. 

  D. Beware of others who are overly quick to initiate you and make 
you part of their system of magic. 

    1. This is often a sign that they want to use you, your money, and 
your energy to feed their own ego trips and power games. 

  E. Beware of those who flatter you and nourish your Ego more than 
your Spirit. 

    1. They are probably trying to control you for their own devices 
and care little, if anything, for your spiritual needs. 

      a. On the other hand, beware of those who try to control you 
with intimidation, guilt and/or fear. 

        (1) Watch out for teachers who constantly point out to you how 
wise and powerful they are and how ignorant and weak you are. 

           (a) One who is truly wise does not have to call your 
attention to it. 

           (b) Actions speak louder than words. 

VI. WHAT TO DO IF YOU HAVE JOINED THE WRONG GROUP 

  A. Recognize WHY you joined this particular group. 

    1. People first contacting the craft rarely enter a specific 
tradition out of deliberate choice. 

      a. Usually they are seeking 'The Craft' and they join the first 
group that lets them in. 

        (1) This group gives them a plan of study, often lasting a 
solar year. 

           (a) Then, if they seem to mesh with the other people of the 
group, they are initiated into it. 

           (b) Usually that coven has a specific orientation and 
tradition that it follows. 

  B. Making Plans to Leave 

    1. If you find that you are impatient or that you are not 
advancing as quickly as you think you should be, you may want to start 
making plans to leave the group. 

      a. This should be done as graciously as you can possibly manage. 

        (1) As a newcomer to the craft community you will not have 
much of an established reputation. 

           (a) And it is human nature to place more value on the story 
told by the leader of a group as to why you left, than your story, 
especially if it was a bad break. 

           (b) Unless the group and/or its leaders already have a bad 
reputation, in which case you should not have gotten mixed up with 
them in the first place. 

        (2) If you can get out of the group without causing conflicts 
or confrontations, do it, as it will then be much easier to build a 
good reputation in the community. 

           (a) And you will find it easier to get into a new group if 
they do not have to risk facing bad blood with another coven because 
they took you in. 

        (3) For your own sake, do not bad mouth your old group or its 
leaders. 

           (a) This only hurts you, as it tends to lower you in the 
eyes of the other crafters and it will eventually get back to the ones 
you are bad mouthing. 



VII. WARDING OFF PSYCHIC ATTACKS 

  A. Get to Know Your Enemy 

    1. TRUE psychic attacks are VERY RARE. 

      a. There are few people with the knowledge and/or training who 
can launch an effective psychic attack. 

        (1) Most people who suspect that they are being attacked 
psychically are paranoid. 

           (a) The paranoia usually has its roots in guilt felt by the 
person who believes he is under attack. 

           (b) The guilt is normally related to some action or other, 
that the paranoid person has committed against someone else and the 
fear of the wrath or supposed power of the person he believes is 
attacking. 

           (c) This guilt and fear is what works on their 
subconsciousness until they start to manifest real symptoms or outward 
appearances of being under attack. 

    2. Look for a link between yourself and your enemy 

      a. If in fact, there really is someone trying to attack you 
psychically, they will need a link to you. 

        (1) Be very careful to dispose of all nail-clippings and hair, 
so that they do not fall into the hands of your enemies and practice 
restraint in giving out your picture. 

        (2) Wash all clothes that you are giving away and remove any 
personalized initials or tags that connect them with you. 

           (a) All of these items are connected to you through the Law 
of Contagion, and can serve as a link through which your enemy can 
reach you. 

      b. Check to see if any of these items may be in the possession 
of the person you suspect is attacking you. 

        (1) You should be able to remember if you have given anyone a 
lock of your hair, a photograph, or an article of clothing. 

    3. Seek out stories of failure on the part of the person you 
suspect is doing the attacking. 

      a. A large part of the success of the attack will depend on the 
faith of the victim that the enemy is truly as powerful as the victim 
believes the attacker to be. 


        (1) This faith not only reinforces the psychological effects 
of being attacked but the fear it creates opens a channel between the 
victim and attacker. 

           (a) Asking around should soon turn up stories of failure on 
the part of the attacker and this plants doubts in the victims mind as 
to whether they are truly at risk from this bumbler. 


    4. GET YOUR ACT TOGETHER 

      a. If you are under attack, it is at least partly your own 
fault, and you need to get your life in order. 

        (1) Take control of your life by cleaning your living quarters 
from top to bottom. 

           (a) This will reassure you that there are no hidden charms 
or fettishes hidden inside your space. 

           (b) If you discover any, then you can break the link by 
bathing them in the running water of a stream, canal or the waves of 
an ocean to wash away their power and then burn them in a fire to 
break any connection between you and them. 

            (c) Do not forget to check outside of your house for 
recent signs of digging which would indicate that someone has buried 
something there recently. 

            (d) One favorite place is under your doorstep so that you 
must cross it each time you leave or enter the house and outside your 
bedroom window. 

         (2) If you have been raised in any particular religion that 
you still feel an affinity for or have truly converted to, you might 
try praying to your deity for protection and forgiveness for whatever 
you have done to bring attack unto you. 

            (a) A good way to renew your faith is to sit down and read 
the entire book, scroll, etc, that constitute your holy doctrines 
which guide you through your life. 

         (3) Change your lifestyle if you feel that it has contributed 
to opening you up to the attack. 

            (a) Unfortunately we are judged by others according to the 
people we associate with and nobody needs friends who will turn on 
you. 





  B. Purify and Protect Your Home. 

    1. In addition to the physical cleansing of your home mentioned 
above it is a good practice to spiritually cleanse your home on a 
regular basis. 

      a. Natural cleansing agents such as sunshine and wind and also 
prepared solutions such as floor washes and powders that can be 
sprinkled into carpets or across doorways, etc. 

        (1) The sun has a disinfecting quality that is excellent for 
bedding and rugs. 

           (a) Remove all cloth covered furniture, bedding and 
clothing after it has been washed, and cloth floor and wall coverings 
and hang or place them in the full sun for a minimum of 6 hours. 

        (2) Open all the windows of your home and allow the wind to 
blow through your house. 

           (a) If there is no wind, then make some with a box fan, 
bought or borrowed from a local source. 

           (b) Every house has a natural inlet and outlet for air 
built into it. Light a stick of sweet incense and walk around your 
home with it. Notice whether the air coming from each window or door 
pulls the smoke of the incense out of the room or pushes it into the 
room.  Also notice which windows or doors produce the strongest push 
and pull. 

           (c) Place the fan at the window which has the strongest 
pull of air inward, so that it pulls the air into the room. Another 
fan should be placed at the window with the strongest push out, so 
that the fan blows the air out the window. 

        (3) Choose an incense that appeals to you and fill the house 
with smoke from the incense while it is being aired out. 

           (a) An instant incense burner can be made from a pie plate 
with a can of playdough set in the middle of it. 

           (b) Shove the ends of stick incense into the playdough at 
an angle, so that the ashes fall out into the pie plate. Light the 
sticks and you are in business. 

           (c) An alternative is to use self-igniting charcoal with a 
powdered or resinous incense. Take a 2 quart saucepan and fill it half 
full with fine dirt or sand and set the charcoal in the center of the 
sand. Light the charcoal and place a few pinches of powdered incense 
or a few pieces of resin on the glowing coal. 


           (d) Do not place the incense burner too close to any walls, 
as the smoke will stain the walls. Turn off any negative-ion 
generators that you may have in the house as they will grab the smoke 
out of the air and bond it to the walls and fixtures in your home. 

        (4) Scrub the floors and walls with a cleansing solution 
containing soap, water, sea salt and fragrances which you associate 
with cleanliness. 

           (a) Some people prefer the hospital smell that comes from 
using Lysol, others the pungent smell of pine oil, and still others 
the lighter fragrances of lemon oil or lavender. 

           (b) I would suggest staying away from cleansers that leave 
the smell of ammonia since that particular smell is often associated 
with stale urine. 

           (c) Any decent formulary should give several recipes for 
concocting your own floor washes, cleansing powders, etc. 

    2. Once the psychic atmosphere of your home has been cleansed, you 
will want to take measures to prevent any unwanted intrusions. 

      a. Setting wards at all the windows and doors will prevent any 
unwelcome entities from crossing your threshold. 

        (1) This is done after all locks and bars, if any, are in 
place and secured. 

           (a) Remember, on the physical plane it is best to use 
physical means backed up by psychic means, rather than to rely solely 
on psychic means, unless you like to live dangerously. 

      b. A ward is set by drawing, or tracing a protective sign such 
as the cross for christians, a banishing pentagram for witches, etc., 
at each of the windows and doors. 

        (1) Appropriate visualizations depicting what the protective 
sign is supposed to accomplish, will program it as you are drawing it. 

           (a) You can leave instructions for it to let you know if 
anything tries to get past it or, if you are afraid you might not be 
able to control your fear, tell it to stand its ground as long as it 
can. 

           (b) Personally, I prefer to visualize it as a local 
manifestation of the Goddess and thereby set up a magical link that 
allows the ward to draw on the natural protective urges of a mother 
for her young. 

              <1> It's true that, in this case, that is playing a bit 
of hardball, but I see no reason why I shouldn't feel as safe anywhere 
I am as I do resting in the bosom of my Mother. 

      c. As a last line of defense, you might want to borrow a page 
out of the ceremonial magicians book and cast a protective circle 
about your bed before you go to sleep. 

        (1) If you are planning to go out and do some work on the 
Astral Planes, it is almost mandatory that you do this to insure that 
you are not messed with while you are "oot and aboot." 

  C. Learn how to handle yourself when confronted by your attacker. 

    1. Sit or stand with your arms crossed over your solar plexus. 

      a. The chakra through which energy enters and leaves your body 
is located at the solar plexus. 

        (1) By blocking this chakra, you are denying the attacker any 
of your energy and preventing him from sending any of his into your 
system. 

           (a) The effect is heightened if you stand or sit in such a 
way as to be facing slightly to one side or the other of the attacker, 
in other words, do not face him front on. 

    2. Become aware of how you are controlling your eyes. 

      a. The key here is relaxation. 

        (1) If you find yourself staring, or transfixed, blink your 
eyes until they feel comfortable. 

           (a) Many forms of hypnosis depend on catching the eye and 
holding it until the subject tires enough to allow an opening. 

      b. Notice which eye of your attacker you are staring into and 
deliberately change your gaze to the other one. 

        (1) The eye which you find yourself staring into is your 
attackers 'strong' eye by which he 'fascinates' his victims. 

           (a) Changing your gaze to his 'weak eye' breaks his control 
over you. 

        (2) It takes a lot of concentration to keep your gaze on his 
'weak' eye. 

           (a) But exerting this effort will distract you from his 
voice which he will try to use to 'charm' you. 

    3. Become aware of your personal zones and posture. 

      a. Get a book on, and study, body language. 

        (1) Body language is the non-verbal way your subconscious 
communicates how it is feeling to yourself and others around you. 

           (a) Without an understanding of how body posture can be 
controlled, other people can gain the upper hand by placing you in 
subservient postures. 

      b. Learn how to recognize the positions and practice turning the 
tables on aggressors by trading position while you subtly invade their 
personal safety zone with a mildly aggressive move or two. 

        (1) This will remove you from being the one who is dominated, 
while it throws your attacker off balance. 

           (a) For the most part, people who will threaten you with 
psychic attack will not attempt to force their own will upon you 
physically. 

               <1> But in the off chance they might try, stay away 
from deserted or less than public places when confronting your 
attacker. 

    4. Do not overlook the obvious ridiculousness of the situation in 
your search for a solution. 

      a. People who attack or try to attack, others psychically take 
themselves much too seriously. 

        (1) The quickest way to counter an attack is to invoke your 
innate sense of humor. 

           (a) Smiling, with an occasional giggle or snicker, while 
your attacker is putting his curse on you, will send him into a fit of 
ranting and raving. 

           (b) Pretending to be looking forward to the curse will make 
him 'foam at the mouth". 

           (c) Asking if there is anything you can do to help will 
send him over the edge. 

    5. Whatever you do, DO NOT try to counter-attack your attacker. 

      a. This will lower your psychic energies to his level and open a 
channel between you and him through which he may successfully attack 
you. 

      b. This will play hell with your Karma and you will both be 
required to work things out before either of you can proceed along the 
Path of Return. 

        (1) Nor should you invoke the Crone aspect of the Goddess to 
punish him. 

           (a) The Goddess is not concerned about such matters in Her 
Maiden aspect, very forgiving of everybody in Her Mother aspect, and 
only interested in Justice in Her Crone aspect. 

              <1> This means that as Maiden, she doesn't care and as 
Mother, she will forgive and not punish, but as Crone she will kick 
everybody's backside that is involved. 

                 <a> There is a maxim of justice that - if there is a 
dispute - everybody is at least somewhat at fault. 

                 <b> Therefore to serve justice - everyone must be 
punished. 

              <2> It is better to ask for mercy and let the laws of 
Karma even things out. 




END OF LESSON EIGHT 



 
         



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 The Salted Slug                          Strange              408-454-9368
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 Tomorrow's 0rder of Magnitude            Finger_Man           415-961-9315
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
