ab:mabon.txt                                                       14jan90


                        Autumnal Equinox     

The altar is decorated with the symbols of autumn: pine-cones, oak sprigs,
acorns, ears of grain, etc.

After the Circle has been cast, the coven stands in a ring facing inwards,
men and women alternately. The High Priest stands to the west of the altar
and the High Priestess to the east, facing each other. The High Priestess 
recites:


HPS:    "Farewell, O Sun, ever-returning Light,
        The hidden God, who ever yet remains,
        Who now departs into the Land of Youth
        Through the Gates of Death
        To dwell enthroned, the Judge of Gods and men,
        The horned leader of the hosts of air -
        Yet even as he stands unseen about the Circle,
        So dwelleth he within the secret seed -
        The seed of newly-ripened grain, the seed of flesh;
        Hidden in earth, the marvellous seed of the stars.
        In him is Life, and Life is the Light of man.
        That which never was born, and never dies.
        Therefore the wise weep not, but rejoice."

HPS hands HP the wand, and picks up a sistrum; they lead the dance three 
times round the altar.

The Candle Game is played, followed by cakes and wine and any other games
the High Priestess decides on.
----------
-based on Stewart Farrar's "What Witches Do", which is based on Alex 
 Sanders' BOS.
-The Candle game, as described in Stewart Farrar's "What Witches Do":
        -The men form a ring facing inwards, either sitting or standing.
         The women stand in a ring outside them, standing on something
         if too short. The men pass a lighted candle from hand to hand,
         deosil, while the women lean forward and try to blow it out.
        -The man who holds it when it is blown out gets three flicks of the 
         scourge from the successful blower, and must give her the Fivefold
         Kiss in return. The candle is relit and the game proceeds.
-There are lots of variants possible. Have fun. 

