                  ----> The Nature Of Our Ways <----

             As often as possible, hold the Rites, in the Forests, by the
      Seashore, on deserted Mountain Tops or near tranquil Lakes.

             If this is impossible a garden or some chamber shall suffice,
      if it is reeded with fumes or flowers. Seek out Wisdom in Books, Rare
      Manuscripts and cryptic poems if you will, but seek it out also in
      simple Stones and fragile Herbs and in the cries of wild birds.

             Listen to the whisperings of the wind and the roar of water
      if you would discover Magick, for it is here that the Old Secrets
      are preserved. Books contain words; trees contain energies and
      Wisdom. Books ne'er dreamt of.

             Ever remember that the Old Ways are constantly revealing
      themselves. Therefore, be as the river willow that bends and sways with
      the wind. That which remains changeless, shall outlive its spirit, but
      that which evolves and grows will shine for centuries.

            There can be no monopoly on wisdom. Therefore, share what
      you will of Our Ways with others who seek them, but Hide Mystic Lore
      from the eyes of those who would destroy, for to do otherwise increases
      their destruction.

            Mock not the Rituals of another, for who can say yours are
      greater in Power and Wisdom. Ensure that your actions are honorable,
      for all that you do shall return to you three folds, good or Bane.

            Be wary of those who would dominate you, who would control and
      manipulate your workings and reverences. True reverence for the Goddess
      and God occurs within. Look suspicious on any who would twist workship
      from you for their own gain and glory, but welcome those Priestesses
      and Priests who are suffused with love. Honor all living things for we
      are of the bird, the fish, the bee.

            Destroy not life, save it be to preserve your own. And this is
      the Nature Of Our Way.
                                          So Mote It Be
