ab:paths.txt                                                       16jan90
    


                        The Ways of Making Magic

    The [eight pointed asterisk] sign on the Athame is said to represent, 
    among other things, the Eight Paths which all lead to the Center and 
    the Eight Ways of Making magic, and these are: 

         1. Meditation or concentration.
         2. Chants, Spells, Invocations. Invoking the Goddess, etc.
         3. Projection of the Astral Body, or Trance.
         4. Incense, Drugs, Wine, etc. Any potion which aids to release the 
            Spirit.
         5. Dancing
         6. Blood control. Use of the Cords.
         7. The Scourge.
         8. The Great Rite.

    You can combine many of these ways to produce more power.

    To practice the Art successfully, you need the following five things:

         1. Intention. You must have the absolute will to succeed, the firm 
            belief that you can do so and the determination to win through 
            against all obstacles.  
         2. Preparation. You must be properly prepared.
         3. Invocation. The Mighty Ones must be invoked.
         4. Consecration. The Circle must be properly cast and consecrated 
            and you must have properly consecrated tools.  
         5. Purification. You must be purified.

    Hence there are 5 things necessary before you can start, and then 8 
    Paths or Ways leading to the Centre.  For instance, you can combine 4, 
    5, 6, 7, and 8 together in one rite; or 4, 6 and 7 together with 1 and 
    2, or with 3 perhaps.  The more ways you can combine, the more power 
    you produce.  

    It is not meet to make offering of less than two score lashes to the 
    Goddess, for here be a mystery. The fortunate numbers be 3, 7, 9 and 
    thrice 7 which be 21. And these numbers total two score, so a less 
    perfect or fortunate number would not be a perfect prayer. Also the 
    Fivefold Salute be 5, yet it be 8 kisses; for there be 2 feet, 2 knees 
    and 2 breasts. And five times 8 be two score. Also there be 8 Working 
    Tools and the Pentacle be 5; and five eights be two score.  

    (Note: 8 plus 5 equals 13. 8 multipled by 5 equals 40.)

    ----------
    -Published in Janet & Stewart Farrar's "The Witches' Way". They say it
     comes from GBG's BOS (Text B and Text C)

