
                    A MABON OUTLINE:

 (soon to be a major Mabon Ritual, at a terminal near you.)

I. General Mabon info to start with, set the mood, ect... :

A.  What is Mabon?
1. Mabon, sometimes known as the  Harvest/Thanksgiving  Ritual  of the
Autumn Equinox, is one of the Spokes of the Wheel of the Year.  In the
many Earth of Pagan Religions, a  special  kinship with the passing of
the seasons is felt... this is usually  due to the history of the said
Tradition, most of which stem from agrarian  culture, where the season
marked the way  of  life.   From  planting  to  reaping  to  winter to
summer... the seasons were of great  importance to our ancenstors, for
their very existence depended upon good harvests, mild winters, enough
rainfall, and the like.

2.  So... having shown the importance of the seasons, we shall turn to
Mabon itself.  Autumn.. Harvest  time..  the  reaping of what was sown
and cared thru during the year.  A time of Thankfulness and Rejoicing.
So, of course, someone, at some  point  in time must have said... "Now
that the work is over... LET'S PARTY !!!"

3.  This is the essence of Mabon.   Rejoicing  in a bountiful harvest,
thanking the Gods for being so  kind  during the year, and, hopefully,
helping in winning over the Gods' favour for the coming year.


B. OK, so much for Mabon itself, now... What are we going to do?
1.Good question, and so.. on to the heart of this article...


II. About THE MABON RITE itself:

  Now, this will be a very Discordian  Ritual in that each participant
will be (more or less)  writing  his/her  own  part.   This outline is
provided to sorta nudge (nudge,  nudge,  wink,  wink, say no more sir,
say no more!) people into making  their  individual pieces able to fit
into the whole thing...    ( I  feel  like the Green Ball outta "HEAVY
METAL", the movie, something which ties things together).

Back to the rite itself.

Basically, 6 personages will be represented:
A Caller or Watcher of the EAST
                           SOUTH
                           WEST
                     and   NORTH.
A High Priest, and 
A High Priestess.

   Of course, since this  is  a  generic  Rite,  the  terms "Lord" and
"Lady" will be used when referring  to  the Male and Female aspects of
divinity/godhood/whatever... individuals may use which ever names they
wish, for a Rose, by any other name, would still smell as sweet.



III. OUTLINE:

A. Invocation...  once everybody has  arrived, a Circle shall be cast,
more or less, and the 4  Watchers/Callers  each  get to do their thing
invoking that which that direction  symbolizes  to come and attend the
festivities.   After  which,  either  the  HPS  or  HP,  or both would
consecrate the circle... in our case..  the circle will be around each
person at their 'puter.. with a sense of being connected to each other
via the others' 'puters.  So.. what we'll do is... after the circle is
cast, and the 4 corners have done their  things, then the HP will call
upon the Lord to attend, and the HPS shall call upon the Lady, (or, if
we want to be different, we can have the HP call the Lady, and the HPS
call the Lord... it's not as  traditional,  but  I know of some Ladies
who are more likely to pay  attention  to some Young HP than some HPS,
if you get my meaning [wink]).

B. Once invoked... it's time for the thanksgiving part...
  we all got things we're thankful for... now's the chance

C. After the Thanks are over, a  customary  requesting of Blessing for
the coming year is asked.

D. That done with, it's time to  dismiss  the  summoned ones... first,
around the circle..  each  corner  doing  it's  thing...the  dismissal
consists of a Hail to the being  summoned,  a flattery (as I call it),
and then a structured dismissal (eg.   "Air of the EAST... blah, blah,
blah,.. Go if thou must, but stay if thou wilt").
  The HP and HPS dismiss the Lord and Lady last with similar words.

E.  PARTY TIME!!!!  get out the Beer, munchies, what have you...
celebrate.. you've earned it.


