ab:samhain.txt                                                     11sep88
                                                             Notes 14jan90


                        Hallowmas

Preparation:
        Balefire in centre.
        Two black candles upon the altar.
        A red candle in each of the Quarters.
        A wreath of autumn flowers and the crown of the Horned One
        are upon the altar.

All Coveners are properly prepared, naked and bound.
All are purified by the scourge.

HPS erects the Circle. The HP says:

HP:     "O Gods, beloved of us all,
        bless this our Sabbat that we,
        thy humble worshippers,
        may meet in love, joy and bliss.
        Bless our rites this night 
        with the presence of our departed kin."

Facing north with arms upraised, coveners hand-linked in a semicircle behind 
him, the HP invokes the Horned One.

HPS bearing a priapus wand then leads the Coven in a meeting dance, slowly,
to the Witches' Rune. HP gives each an unlit candle and brings up the rear
of  the dance. The candles are each lit from the balefire before the
outward  spiral. 

When it is done the HPS assumes the Goddess position saying:

HPS:   "Dread Lord of the Shadows, God of Life and Bringer of Death !
        Yet as the knowledge ofthee is Death, open wide, I pray thee,
        the gates through which all must pass. Let our dear ones,
        who have gone  before, return this night to make merry
        with us. And when our time comes, as it must, O thou the
        Comforter, the Consoler, the Giver of Peace and rest, we
        will enter thy realms  gladly and unafraid; for we know
        that when rested and refreshed  among our dear ones, we
        will be reborn again by thy grace,  and the grace of the
        Lady Cerridwen.  Let it be in the same place and the same
        time as our beloved ones, and may we meet, and know, and
        remember, and love them again ! Descend, we pray thee, on
        thy High Priest and Servant, N...."

HPS goes to the HP and, with wand, draws the five-point star upon his
breast and upon the crown of the Horned God. HP kneels and HPS places the
crown upon  his head. Fresh incense is cast into the thurible. HPS strikes
the bell and HP says:

HP:     "Hear ye my witches,
        Welcome to our Great Sabbat.
        Welcome we the spirits
        Of our departed kin."

HPS strikes bell. Witches walk slowly around the Circle.
HPS fills chalice with wine and hands it to HP who drinks and then says:

HP:     "In humility, as the Horned One asks,
        I bid my witches drink."

HP takes chalice to first witch, giving it with his right hand whilst
taking the taper with his left (kiss), then extinguishing the taper before 
accepting back the chalice. Repeat with each witch present. HP then says:

HP:     "Listen, my witches, to the words of the Horned One,
        Drink, dance and be merry in the presence of
        the Old Gods and the spirits of our departed kin."

Coveners partake of cakes and wine.
Dances and games follow closing of Circle.
Great Rite if at all possible by High Priestess and High Priest if no other.
Merry meet, merry part.

----------
-There are plenty of published Samhain rituals, containing at least
 some of these elements.
-This is from "What Witches Do" by Stewart Farrar, fleshed out from Lady
 Sheba's "Book of Shadows", as usual.

