ab:sight.txt                                                      16jan90


                        To Get the Sight


    Sight cometh to different people in divers ways; 'tis seldom it cometh 
    naturally, but it can be induced in many ways. Deep and prolonged 
    meditation may do it, but only if you are a natural, and usually 
    prolonged fasting is necessary. Of old the monks and nuns obtained 
    visions by long vigils, combined with fasting and flagellation til 
    blood came; other mortifications of the flesh were practiced which 
    resulted in visions.  

    In the East 'tis tried with various tortures whilst sitting in a 
    cramped position, which retarded the flow of blood; these tortures, 
    long and continued, gave good results.  

    In the Art, we are taught an easier way, that is, to intensify the 
    imagination, at the same time controlling the blood supply, and this 
    may best be done by using the ritual.  

    Incense is good to propitiate the spirits, also to induce relaxation to 
    the aspirant and to help build up the atmosphere which is necessary for 
    suggestibility. Myrrh, Gum Mastic, Aromatic Rush Roots, Cinnamon Bark, 
    Musk, Juniper, Sandalwood and Ambergris, in combination, are all good, 
    but the best of all is Patchouli.  

    The circle being formed, and everything properly prepared, the aspirant 
    should first bind and take his tutor into the circle, invoke suitable 
    spirits for the operation, dance round till giddy, meanwhile invoking 
    and announcing the object of the work, then he should use the 
    flagellum. Then the tutor should in turn bind the aspirant - but very 
    lightly, so as not to cause discomfort - but enough to retard the blood 
    slightly. Again they should dance round, then at the Altar the tutor 
    should use the flagellum with light, steady, slow and monotonous 
    strokes. It is very important that the pupil should see the strokes 
    coming, as this has the effect of passing, and helps greatly to 
    stimulate the imagination. It is important that the strokes be not 
    hard, the object being to do no more than draw the blood to that part 
    and away from the brain; this, with the light binding, slowing down the 
    circulation of the blood, and the passes, soon induce a drowsy stupor. 
    The tutor should watch for this, and as soon as the aspirant speaks or 
    sleeps the flagellum should cease. The tutor should also watch that the 
    pupil becomes not cold, and if the pupil struggles or seems distressed 
    he should at once be awakened.  

    Be not discouraged if no results come at the first experiment - results 
    usually occur after two or three attempts. It will be found that after 
    two or three attempts or experiments results will come, and soon more 
    quickly; also soon much of the ritual may be shortened, but never 
    forget to invoke the Goddess or to form the circle, and for good 
    results 'tis ever better to do too much ritual rather than do too 
    little at first.  

    It has been found that this practice doth often cause a fondness 
    between aspirant and tutor, and it is a cause of better results if this 
    be so. If for any reason it is undesireable there be any great fondness 
    between aspirant and tutor this may easily be avoided by both parties 
    from the onset, by firmly resolving in their minds that if any fondness 
    ensues it shall be that of a brother and sister, or parent and child, 
    and it is for this reason that a man may only be taught by a woman and 
    a woman by a man, and that man and man or woman and woman should never 
    attempt these practices together, and may all the curses of the Mighty 
    Ones be on any who make such an attempt.  

    Remember, the circle properly constructed is ever necessary to prevent 
    the power released being dissipated; it is also a barrier against any 
    disturbing or mischievious forces; for to obtain good results you must 
    be free from all disturbances.  

    Remember, darkness, points of light gleaming amid the surrounding dark, 
    incense and the steady passes by a white arm, are not as stage effects 
    but rather they are mechanical instruments which serve to start the 
    suggestion which later unlocks the knowledge that it is possible to 
    obtain the divine ecstacy, and so attain to knowledge and communication 
    with the Divine Goddess. When once you have attained this, ritual is 
    needless, as you may attain the state of ecstacy at will, but 'til then 
    or, if having obtained or attained it yourself, you wish to bring a 
    companion to that state of joy, ritual is best.  
----------
    -Published in Janet & Stewart Farrar's "The Witches' Way", from GBG's 
     Text B/C BOS.

