ab:spring.txt                                                      14jan90


                        Vernal Equinox (Eostar)

    Preparation:

         A Symbol of the Wheel is on the altar, flanked with burning 
         candles, or with fire in some form - torches, or small tripods 
         with fire in their cups.

         The Symbol of the Wheel may be a plain disc, or an eight spoked 
         wheel, or the pentacle. Alex and Maxine Sanders used a circular 
         mirror with a broad frame, also circular, decorated as a twelve-
         pointed star.

         In the centre of the Circle is either a cauldron full of 
         inflammable material, or (out of doors) a bonfire ready to be lit.

    HPS casts the Circle.

    HPS then stands in the West, and the HP in the East, both with carrying 
    wands.
    
    HPS: "We kindle this fire today
         In the presence of the Holy Ones,
         Without malice, without jealousy, without envy,
         Without fear of aught beneath the Sun
         But the High Gods.
         Thee we invoke, O Light of Life;
         Be thou a bright flame before us,
         Be thou a guiding star above us,
         Be thou a smooth path beneath us;
         Kindle thou within our hearts
         A flame of love for our neighbours,
         To out foes, to our friends, to our kindred all,
         To all men on the broad earth;
         O merciful Son of Cerridwen,
         From the lowliest thing that liveth,
         To the Name which is highest of all."

    HPS then draws invoking pentagram before the HP and then hands the Wand
    to him, together with the scourge.

    The Maiden strikes a light and hands it to the High Priest, who lights 
    the cauldron or bonfire. He (carrying a wand) and the High Priestess 
    (carrying a sistrum) lead the dance, with the rest following in 
    couples. Each couple must leap over the fire.  The last couple over the 
    fire before it goes out must be well purified. The man must then give a 
    fivefold kiss to each of the women, as the woman to the men, or any 
    other penalty the HPS shall decide.  

    Cakes and wine shall follow.

----------
    -From Stewart Farrar's "What Witches Do" derived from Alex Sanders' BOS
    -I copied the published version more or less as is. Notably I did not 
     correct several logistic nuisances. A Coven may only have one Wand (of 
     course some have more) this version of this ritual requires two. The 
     HP is carrying his wand, when the HPS hands him her wand and the 
     scourge, for no obvious reason. He has to just put down the lot (or 
     hand them to someone), as the next thing he does is light the 
     cauldron.  
    
