INVOCATION TO THE GOD

Blazing God,
You who are the King of the Gods,
Lord of the Sun,
Master of all that is wild and free;
Father of woman and man,
Lover of the Moon Goddess and protector of all the    Craft:
Descend I pray,
With you Solor ray of power
Upon my circle here!



GODDESS CHANT

Luna, Luna, Luna, Diana
Luna, Luna, Luna, Diana
Bless me, bless me, bless me, Diana,
Luna, Luna, Luna, Diana
                  (repeat)



EVENING CHANT TO THE GOD

Hail fair Sun,
Ruler of day;
Rise on the morn
To light my way.
           (to be said while watching the sunset)



EVENING CHANT TO THE GODDESS

Hail fair Moon
Ruler of night;
Guard me and mine
Until the light.
           (to be said while Moon-gazing at night)



GODDESS CHANT

Aaaaaaaaaaaaah
Oooooooooooooh
Uuuuuuuuuuuuuu
Eeeeeeeeeeeeee
Iiiiiiiiiiiiii

[These are obviously, the vowels of the English language.  Pronounce them as: A-"Ah," O-"O," U-"Oo," E-"E," I-"Eye."  Extend the vowels as you vocalize them, stretch the sounds.  This produces Goddess awareness, and rouses the psychic mind]



THE LORE OF NUMBERS

     To be used in ritual and magickal workings.  In general, odd numbers are related to women, receptive energy and the Goddess; even numbers to men, projective energy and the God.

1.     The universe; The One; the source of all.

2.     The Goddess and God; The perfect duality;          projective and receptive energy; the               couple; personal union with deity;                 interpenetration of the physical and               spiritual; balance.

3.     The Triple Goddess; the Lunar phases; the          physical, mental and spiritual aspects of          our species.

4.     The elements; the Spirits of the Stones;           the winds; the seasons.

5.     The senses; the pentagram; the elements            plus Akasha; a Goddess number.

7.     The planets which the ancients knew; the           time of the Lunar phase; power; protection         and magick.

8.     The number of Sabbats; a number of the God.

9.     A number of the Goddess.

13.    The number of Esbats; a fortunate number.

15.    A number of good fortune.

21.    The number of Sabbats and Esbats in the            Pagan year; a number of the Goddess.

28.    A number of the Moon; a number of the              goddess.

101.   The number of fertility.

The planets are numbered thus:

Saturn      3           Venus       7
Jupiter     4           Mercury     8
Mars        5           Moon        9
Sun         6



THIRTEEN GOALS OF A WITCH

   I.   Know yourself
  II.   Know your Craft (Wicca)
 III.   Learn
  IV.   Apply knowledge with wisdom
   V.   Achieve balance
  VI.   Keep your words in good order
 VII.   Keep your thoughts in good order
VIII.   Celebrate life
  IX.   Attune with the cycles of Terra
   X.   Breath and eat correctly
  XI.   Exercise the body
 XII.   Meditate
XIII.   Honour the Goddess and God





RECIPES FOR FOOD



CRECENT CAKES

    1 cup firmly ground almonds
1 1/4 cups flour
  1/2 cup confectioner's sugar
    2 drops almond extract
  1/2 cup butter, softened
    1 egg yolk

     Combine almonds, flour, sugar and extract until thoroughly mixed.  with the hands, work in butter and egg yolk until well-blended.  Chill dough.  Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.  Pinch off pieces of dough about the size of walnuts and shape into crecents.  Place on greased sheets and bake for about 20 minutes.  Serve during Simple Feast, especially at Esbats.



BELTANE MARIGOLD CUSTARD

  2 cups milk
  1 cup unsprayed marigold petals
1/4 tsp. salt
  3 tbsp. sugar
  1 to 2-inch piece vanilla bean
  3 egg yolks, slightly beaten
1/8 tsp. allspice
1/8 tsp. nutmeg
1/2 tsp. rose water
    wipped cream

     Using a clean mortar and pestle reserved for cooking purposes, pound marigold petals.  Or, crush with a spoon.  Mix the salt, sugar and spices together.  Scald milk with the marigolds and the vanilla bean.  Remove the vanilla bean and add the slightly beaten yolks and dry ingredients. Cook on low heat.  When the mixture coats a spoon, add rose water and cool.
     Top with wipped cream, garnish with fresh marigold petals.



SOFT MEAD

  1 quart water, preferably spring water
  1 cup honey
  1 sliced lemon
1/2 tsp. nutmeg

     Boil together all ingredients in a non-metalic pot.  While boiling, scrape off the rising "scum" with a wooden spoon.  When no more rises add the following:

    pinch salt
    juice of 1/2 lemon

     Strain and cool.  Drink in place of alcoholic mead or wine during the Simple Feast.



BEVERAGES

     If you wish to avoid the use of wine, which has long been utilized in religious and magickal rites, there are many other beverages that can be used to toast the Goddess and God.  These include (but certainly aren't limited to):

Sabbats: apple juice, grape juice, grapefruit               juice, orange juice, pineapple juice,              black tea, soft mead, guava nectar,                cinnamon coffee, ginger tea, hibiscus tea

Esbats:  lemonade, apricot nectar, mango nectar,            pear nectar, papaya nectar, peach nectar,          jasmine tea, peppermint tea, rosebud tea,          milk



RECIPES FOR INCENSES

     To make incenses, simply grind the ingredients and mix them together.  As you mix, sense their energies.  Burn on charcoal blocks in the censer during ritual.



CIRCLE INCENSE

  4 parts Frankincense
  2 parts Myrrh
  2 parts Benzoin
  1 part Sandalwood
1/2 part Cinnamon
1/2 part Rose petals
1/4 part Vervain
1/4 part Rosemary
1/4 part Bay

     Burn in the circle for all types of rituals and spells.  Frankincense, myrrh and benzoin should definitely constitute the bulk of the mixture.



ALTAR INCENSE

3 parts Frankincense
2 parts Myrrh
1 part Cinnamon

     Burn as a general incense on the altar to purify it and to promote ritual consciousness during rituals.



FULL MOON RITUAL INCENSE

  2 parts Sandalwood
  2 parts Frankincense
1/2 part Gardinia petals
1/4 part Rose petals
    a few drops Ambergris oil

     Burn during Esbats or simply at the time of the Full Moon to attune with the Goddess.



SPRING SABBAT INCENSE

3 parts Frankincense
2 parts Sandalwood
1 part Benzoin
1 part Cinnamon
  a few drops Patchouly oil

     Burn during spring and summer Sabbat rituals.



FALL SABBAT INCENSE

3 parts Frankincense
2 parts Myrrh
1 part Rosemary
1 part Cedar
1 part Juniper

     Burn during fall and winter Sabbat rituals.



RECIPES FOR OILS

     To create oils, simply mix them in a bottle.  Wear for ritual purposes.



SABBAT OIL #1

3 parts Patchouly
2 parts Musk
1 part Carnation

     Wear to the Sabbats to promote communion with the deities.



SABBAT OIL #2

2 parts Frankincense
1 part Myrrh
1 part Carnation
1 part Allspice

     Use as the above formula.



FULL MOON OIL #1

4 parts Gardenia
2 parts Lotus
1 part Jasmine

     Anoint the body prior to Esbats to attune with Lunar energies.



FULL MOON OIL #2

3 parts Sandalwood
2 parts Lemon
1 part Rose

     Another like the above.



GODDESS OIL

3 parts Rose
2 parts Gardenia
1 part Lemon
1 part Lotus
1 part Ambergris

     Wear to honour the Goddess during rituals.



HORNED GOD OIL

2 parts Frankincense
2 parts Cinnamon
1 part Bay
1 part rosemary
1 part Musk

     Wear to honour the Horned God during rituals.



ALTAR OIL

4 parts Frankincense
3 parts Myrrh
1 part Galangal
1 part Vervain
1 part Lavender

     Anoint the altar with this oil at regular intervals to purify and empower it.



















