A SELF-DEDICATION RITE

     Prepare yourself by doing the Ritual Bath and Self Blessing.
     If you,re performing this ritual at the sea or a river, bathe there if you so desire.
     As you bathe, prepare for the coming rite.  Open your consciousness to higher levels of awareness.  Breath deep.  Cleanse your mind as well as your body.
     After bathing, dry and dress for the journey. Go to a place in the wild where you feel safe.  It should be a comfortable spot where you won't be disturbed by others, an area where the powers of the Earth and the Elements are evident.  It may be a mountain top, a desert canyon or cave, perhaps a dense forest, a rocky outcropping over the sea, a quiet island in the center of a lake.  Even a lonely part of a park or garden can be used.  Draw on your imagination to find the place.
     You need take nothing with you but a vial of richly scented oil.  Sandalwood, frankincense, cinnamon or any other scent is fine.  When you arrive at the place of dedication, remove your shoes and sit quietly for a few moments.  Calm your heart if you've exerted yourself during your travel.  Breathe deeply to return to normal, and keep your mind free of cluttered thoughts.  Open yourself to the natural energies around you.
     When you're calm, rise and pivot slowly on one foot, surveying the land around you.  You're seeking the ideal spot.  Don't try to find it; open your awareness to the place.  When you've discovered it (and you'll know when), sit, kneel or lie flat on your back.  Place the oil on the Earth beside you, Don't stand - contact the Earth.
     Continue deep breathing.  Feel the energies around you.  Call the Goddess and God in any words you like, or use the following invocation.  Memorize these words before the rite so that they'll spill effortlessly from you, or improvise:

     O Mother Goddess,
     O Father God,
     Answers to all mysteries and yet mysteries unanswered;
     In this place of power I open myself to Your Essence.
     In this place and in this time I am changed;
     From henceforth I walk the Paths of the Craft.
     I dedicate myself to you, Mother Goddess and Father God.

(rest for a moment, silent, still.  Then continue:)

     I breathe you energies into my body,                                      commingling, blending,
        mixing them with mine,
        that I may see the divine in nature,
        nature in the divine,
        and divinity within myself and all else.
     O Great Goddess,
     O Great God,
        Make me one with your essence
        Make me one with your essence
        Make me one with your essence.

     You may feel bursting with power and energy, or calm and at peace.  Your mind might be in a whirl.  The Earth beneath you may throb and undulate with energy.  Wild animals, attracted by the psychic accurrence, might grace you with their presence.
     Whatever occurs, know that you have opened yourself and that the Goddess and God have heard you.  You should feel different inside, at peace or simply powerful.
     After the invocation, wet a finger with the oil and mark the symbols of the Goddess and God somewhere on your body.  It doesn't matter where; you can do this on your chest, forehead, arms, legs, anywhere.  As you anoint, visualize these symbols sinking into your flesh, glowing as they enter your body and then dispersing into millions of tiny points of light.
     The formal self-dedication is ended.  Thank the Goddess and God for Their attention.  Sit and meditate before leaving the place of dedication.
     Once home, celebrate in some special way.

