WORDS TO THE WISE ....

     O daughters and sons of the Earth, adore the Goddess and God and be blessed with the fullness of life.
     Know that They have brought you to these writings, for herein lie our ways of the Craft, to serve and fulfill the keepers of wisdom, the tenders of the sacred flame of knowledge.  Run the rites with love and joy, and the Goddess and God will bless you with all thet you need.  But those who practise dark magicks shall know Their greatest wrath.
     Remember that you are of the Craft.  No more do you trod the ways of doubt.  You walk the path of light, ever climbing from shadow to shadow to the highest realm of existence.  But though we're the bearers of truths, others do not wish to share our knowledge, so we run our rites beneath moon filled skies enwrapped in shadows.  But we are happy.
     Live fully, for that is the purpose of life.  Refrain not from earthly existence.  From it we grow to learn and understand, until such time that we are reborn to learn more, repeating this cycle 'till we have spiralled up the path of perfection and can finally call the Goddess and God our kin.
     Walk the fields and forests; be refreshed by the cool winds and the touch of a nodding flower.  The Moon and Sun sing in the ancient wild places:  The deserted seashore, the stark desert, the roaring waterfall.  We are of the Earth and should revere Her, so do Her honor.
     Celebrate the rites on the appropriate days and seasons, and call upon the Goddess and God when the time is meet, but use the Power only when necessary, never for frivolous ends.  Know that using the Power for harm is a Perversion of Life itself.
     But for those who love and magnify love, the richness of life shall be your reward.  Nature will celebrate.
     So love the Goddess and God, and harm none!



THE NATURE OF OUR WAY

     * As often as possible, hold the rites in forests, by the seashore, on deserted mountaintops or near tranquil lakes.  If this is impossible, a garden or some chamber shall suffice, if it is readied with fumes of flowers.
     * Seek out wisdom in books, rare manuscripts and cryptic poems if you will, but seek it out also in simple stones and fragile herbs and in the cries of wild birds.  Listen to the wisperings of the wind and the roar of water if you would discover magick, for it is here that the old secrets are preserved.
     * Books contain words; trees contain energies and wisdom books ne'er dreamt of.
     * Ever remember that the Old Ways are constantly revealing themselves.  Therefore be as the river willow that bends and sways with the wind.  That which remains changeless shall outlive its spirit, but that which evolves and grows will shine for centuries.
     * There can be no monopoly on wisdom.  Therefore share what you will of our ways with others who seek them, but hide mystic lore from the eyes of those who would destroy, for to do otherwise increases their destruction.
     * Mock not the rituals or spells of another, for who can say yours are greater in power or wisdom?
     * Ensure that your actions are honorable, for all that you do shall return to you three-fold, good or bane.
     * Be wary of one who would dominate you, who would control and manipulate your workings and reverences.  True reverence for the Goddess and God occurs within.  Look with suspicion on any who would twist worship from you for their own gain and glory, but welcome those priestesses and priests who are suffused with love.
     * Honor all living things, for we are of the bird, the fish, the bee.  Destroy not life save it be to preserve your own.
     * And this is the nature of our way.



BEFORE TIME WAS

     Before time was, there was The One; The One was all, and all was The One.
     And the vast expanse known as the universe was The One, all-wise, all-pervading, all-powerful, eternally changing.
     And space moved.  The One molded energy into twin forms, equal but opposite, fashioning the Goddess and God from The One and of The One.
     The Goddess and God stretched and gave thanks to The One, but darkness surrounded them.  They were alone, solitary save for The One.
     So They formed energy into gasses and gasses into suns and planets and moons; They sprinkled the universe with whirling globes and so all was given shape by the hands of the Goddess and God.
     Light arose and the sky was illuminated by a billion suns.  And the Goddess and God, satisfied by their works, rejoiced and loved, and were one.
     From their union sprang the seeds of all life, and of the human race, so that we might achieve incarnation upon the Earth.
     The Goddess chose the Moon as Her symbol, and the God the Sun as His symbol, to remind the inhabitants of Earth of their fashioners.
     All are born, live, die and are reborn beneath the Sun and Moon; all things come to pass thereunder, and all occurs with the blessings of The One, as has been the way of existence before time was.



SONG OF THE GODDESS

     I am the Great Mother, worshipped by all creation and existent prior to their consciousness.  I am the primal female force, boundless and eternal.

     I am the chaste Goddess of the Moon, the Lady of all magick.  The winds and moving leaves sing my name.  I wear the cresent Moon upon my brow and my feet rest among the starry heavens.  I am mysteries yet unsolved, a path newly set upon.  I am a field untouched by the plow.  Rejoice in me and know the fullness of youth.

     I am the blessed Mother, the gracious Lady of the harvest.  I am clothed with the deep, cool wonder of the Earth and the gold of the fields heavy with grain.  By me the tides of the Earth are ruled; all things come to fruition according to my reason.  I am refuge and healing.  I am the life-giving Mother, wondrously fertile.

     Worship me as the Crone, tender of the unbroken cycle of death and rebirth.  I am the wheel, the shadow of the Moon.  I rule the tides of women and mem and give release and renewal to weary souls.  Though the darkness of death is my domain, the joy of birth is my gift.

     I am the Goddess of the Moon, the Earth, the Seas.  My names and strengths are manifold.  I pour forth magick and power, peace and wisdom.  I am the eternal Maiden, Mother of all, and Crone of darkness, and I send you blessings of limitless love.



CALL OF THE GOD

     I am the radiant King of the Heavens, flooding the Earth with warmth and encouraging the hidden seed of creation to burst forth into manifestation.  I lift my shining spear to light the lives of all beings and daily pour forth my gold upon the Earth, putting to flight the powers of darkness.

     I am the master of the beasts wild and free.  I run with the swift stag and soar as a sacred falcon against the shimmering sky.  The ancient woods and wild places emanate my powers, and the birds of the air sing of my sanctity.

     I am also the last harvest, offering up grain and fruits beneath the sickle of time so that all may be nourished.  For without planting there can be no harvest; without winter, no spring.

     Worship me as the thousand-named Sun of creation, the spirit of the horned stag in the wild, the endless harvest.  See in the yearly cycle of festivals my birth, death and rebirth - and know that such is the destiny of all creation.

     I am the spark of life, the radiant Sun, the giver of peace and rest, and I send my rays of blessings to warm the hearts and strengthen the minds of all.



THE CIRCLE OF STONES

     The Circle of stones is used during indoor rituals, for energy raising, meditation and so on.
     First cleanse the area with the ritual broom.
     For this circle you will need four large, flat stones.  If you have none, candles can be used to mark the four cardinal points of the circle.  White or purple candles can be used, as can colours related to each direction - green for the North, yellow for East, red for South and blue for West.
     Place the first stone (or candle) to the North, to represent the Spirit of the North Stone. In ritual when you invoke the Spirits of the Stones you're actually invoking all that resides in that particular direction, including the elemental energies.
     After setting the North Stone (or candle), place the East, South and West Stones.  They should mark out a rough square, nearly encompassing the working area.  This square represents the physical plane on which we exist - the Earth.
     Now take a long purple or white cord and lay it out in a circle, using the four stones or candles to guide you.  It takes a bit of practice to smoothly do this.  The cord should be placed so that the stones remain inside the circle.  Now you have a square and a circle, the circle representing the spiritual reality.  As such, this is a squared circle; the place of interpenetration of the physical and spiritual realms.
     The size of the circle can be anything from 5 to 20 feet depending on the room and your desires.
     Next, set up the altar.  The following tools are recommended:

     * A Goddess symbol (candle, holed stone,             statue)
     * A God symbol (candle, horn, acorn, statue)
     * Athame 
     * Wand
     * Censer
     * Pentacle
     * A bowl of Water (spring, rain or tap)
     * A bowl of Sea Salt (it can also be placed          on the pentacle)
     * Incense
     * Flowers and greens
     * One red candle in holder (if not using             point candles)
     * Any other tools or materials required for          the ritual, spell or magickal working

     Set up the altar according to the plan shown here or according to your own design.  Also be sure to have plenty of matches, as well as a small heat-proof container in which to place them when used.  A charcoal block is also necessary to burn the incense.




























              Suggested Altar Layout


     Light the candles.  Set the incense smoking.  Lift the athame and touch its blade to the water, saying:

     I consecrate and cleanse this water
     that it may be purified and fit to
     dwell within the sacred Circle of Stones.
     In the name of the Mother Goddess and Father          God,
     I consecrate this water.

     As you do this, visualize your athame blasting away all negativity from the water.
     The salt is next touched with the point of the athame while saying:

     I bless this salt that it may be fit
     to dwell within the sacred Circle of Stones.
     In the name of the Mother Goddess and Father          God,
     I bless this salt.

     Now stand facing North, at the edge of the cord-marked circle.  Hold your athame point outward at waist level.  Walk slowly around the circle's perimeter clockwise, your feet just inside the cord, charging it with your words and energy.  Create the circle - through your visualization - with the power flowing out from your athame's blade.  As you walk, stretch the energy out until it forms a complete sphere around the working area, half above the ground, half below.  As you do this say:

     Here is the boundary of the Circle of Stones.
     Naught but love shall enter in,
     Naught but love shall emerge from within.
     Charge this by Your powers, Old Ones!

     When you have arrived back at the North, place the athame on the altar.  Take up the salt and sprinkle it around the circle, begining and ending in the North, and moving clockwise.  Next, carry the smoking censer from the altar, and finally sprinkle water around the circle.  Do more than carrying and walking; sense the substances purifying the circle.  The Circle of Stones is now sealed.
     Hold aloft the wand at the North, at the edge of the circle, and say:

     O Spirit of the North Stone,
     Ancient One of the Earth,
     I call You to attend this circle.
     Charge this by Your powers, Old Ones!

     As you say this, visualize a greenish mist rising and writhing in the Northern quarter, over the stone.  This is the elemental energy of the Earth. When the Spirit is present, lower the wand, move to the East, raise it again and say:

     O Spirit of the East Stone,
     Ancient One of Air,
     I call You to attend this circle.
     Charge this by Your powers, Old Ones!

     Visualize the yellowish mist of Air energy.  Lower the wand, move to the South and repeat the following with your upraised wand, visualizing a crimson Fire mist:

     O Spirit of the South Stone,
     Ancient One of Fire,
     I call You to attend this circle.
     Charge this by Your powers, Old Ones!

     Finally, to the West, say with the wand held aloft:

     O Spirit of the West Stone,
     Ancient One of Water,
     I call You to attend this circle.
     Charge this by Your powers, Old Ones!

     Visualize the bluish mist, the essence of Water.
     The circle breaths and lives around you.  The Spirits of the Stones are present.  Feel the energies.  Visualize the circle glowing and growing in power.  Stand still, sensing for a moment.
     The Circle of Stones is complete.  The Goddess and God may be called, and magick wrought.



CUTTING A DOORWAY

     At times you may have to leave the circle.  This is fine, of course, but as previously mentioned, passing through the circle dissipates it.  To prevent this from occurring it's traditional to cut a doorway.
     To do this, face Northeast.  Hold your athame point downward near the ground.  See and sense the circle before you.  Pierce its wall of energy with the athame and trace an archway, tall enough to walk through, moving counter-clockwise along the circle for about three feet.  Move the point of the athame up at the arch's center and down the other side until it is near the ground.
     As you're doing this, visualize that area of the circle's energy being sucked back into the athame.  This creates a void, allowing passage in and out of the circle.  Pull the athame out of the circle's wall.  You're free to walk outside.
     Once back inside, close the door by placing the athame at the lower North-Eastern point of the archway.  With your athame trace the circle's perimeter clockwise, as if redrawing that portion of the Circle of Stones, again visualizing blue or purple energy flaring out from the blade and converging with the rest of the circle.  It is done.



RELEASING THE CIRCLE

     Once the rite is ended, face North, hold aloft the wand and say:

     Farewell, Spirit of the North Stone.
     I give thanks for your presence here.
     Go in power.

     Repeat this same formula to the East, South and West, substituting the proper direction in the words.  Then return to the North and hold the wand aloft for a few moments.
     Lay the wand on the altar.  Take up the athame.  Standing in the North, pierce the circle's wall with the blade at waist level.  Move clockwise around the circle, visualizing it's power being sucked back into the athame.  Literally pull it back into the blade and handle.  Sense the circle dissolving, shrinking; the outside world slowly regaining its dominance in the area.
     When you arrive at the North again, the circle is no more.



VISUALIZATIONS FOR THE CIRCLE OF STONES

     If you wish, you can back up the circle casting with the following visualizations as you form the circle itself:
     Prepare as usual.  Approach the North and set the North Stone (or the candle) on the ground.  Then, visualize a stone slab standing upright two feet to the left of and behind the North Stone.  Visualize this as being bluish-grey, two feet wide, two feet thick and six feet tall.  This stone represents the Goddess.
     When the stone is really there - in your visualization - create another stone of the same size and colour two feet to the right of and behind the North Stone.  This represents the God.
     Now visualize a capstone resting on top of the two upright stones.  It is about two feet by two feet by six feet.  This represents The One before the Goddess and God, the source of all power and magick.  The Northern Trilithon is now complete.
     The stones form an archway, a symbol of the gateway to the realm of the element of Earth.
     Firmly visualize this, then gaze through the arch formed by the stones.  See the greenish haze of the Earth energy.
     Repeat the entire procedure to the East, South and West.  Visualize the appropriate elemental colour within each trilithon.
     Now purify salt and water, cast the circle as usual, and carry around the salt, censer, candle and water.
     As you approach each quarter to call its Spirit of the Stone, see the trilithon firmly in your mind.  Visualize it in all its Pagan splendor.  See the elemental hazes within them, boiling and writhing in unmanifestedness.  Stretch out with your feelings; sense the arrival of the spirit of each stone, then go on to the next.
     With practise this comes easily, but such visualizations are never necessary.



THE BLESSING CHANT

The Blessing Chant can be said at the beginning of any type of ritual as a general invocation.  Separate invocations of the Goddess and God may follow.

     May the powers of The One,
     the source of all creation;
     all-pervasive, omnipotent, eternal;
     may the Goddess,
     the Lady of the Moon;
     and the God,
     Horned Hunter of the Sun;
     may the powers of the Spirits of the Stones,
     rulers of the elemental realms;
     may the powers of the stars above and the             Earth below,
     bless this place, and this time, and I who am         with you.



THE SIMPLE FEAST

     Hold up a Chalice of wine (or some other liquid) between your hands to the sky, and say:

     Gracious Goddess of Abundance,
     Bless this wine and infuse it with your              love.
     In your names, Mother Goddess and Father God,
     I bless this wine (or brew, juice, etc.).

     Hold up a plate of cakes (bread, biscuits) with both hands to the sky and say:

     Powerful God of the Harvest,
     Bless these cakes and infuse them with your           love.
     In your names, Mother Goddess and Father God,
     I bless these cakes (or this bread).



CONSECRATION OF TOOLS

     Light the candles.  Set the incense smoking.  Cast the Circle of Stones.  Place the tool on the pentacle, or a plate of salt.  Touch it with the point of your athame (or your projective hand) and say:

     I consecrate you, O Athame of steel (or wand        of wood, etc.) to cleanse and purify you to        serve me within the Circle of Stones.  In the      names of the Mother Goddess and Father God,        you are consecrated.

     Send projective energy into the tool, cleansing it of all negativity and past associations.  Now pick it up and sprinkle with salt, pass it through the incense smoke, through the candle flame and sprinkle with water, calling upon the Spirits of the Stones to consecrate it.
     Then hold the tool to the sky, saying:

     I charge you by the Old Ones: By the               omnipotent Goddess and God: By the virtues of      the Sun, Moon and Stars: By the powers of the      Earth, Air, Fire and Water, that I shall           obtain all that I desire through you.  Charge      this by your power, Old Ones!

     The tool should immediately be put to use to stengthen and bind the consecration.  For example, the athame can be used to consecrate another tool; a wand to invoke the Goddess; the pentacle to act as a resting place for a tool during its consecration.



THE FULL MOON RITE

     Perform this at night, in the view of the Moon if possible.  It is appropriate for crescents, white flowers, silver and other lunar symbols to be present on the altar for this ritual.  The quartz crystal sphere can be placed on the altar as well.  Or, if you prefer, use the cauldron (or a small white or silver bowl) filled with water.  Place a piece of silver into the water.
     Arrange the altar, light the candles and censer, and cast the Circle of Stones.
     Stand before the altar and invoke the Goddess and God, with the Blessing Chant and/or any other invocations (see Prayers, Chants and Invocations in this Book of Shadows).
     Now gaze at the Moon, if possible.  Feel its energies sinking into your body.  Feel its cool Goddess energy wash you with power and love.
     Now say these or similar words:

     Wondrous Lady of the Moon
     You who greets the dusk with silvered kisses;
     Mistress of the night and of all magicks,
     who rides the clouds in blackened skies
     and spills light upon the cold Earth;
     O Lunar Goddess,
     Cresented-One,
     Shadow maker and shadow breaker;
     Reavealer of mysteries past and present;
     Puller of seas and ruler of women;
     All-wise Lunar Mother,
     I greet your celestrial jewel
     at the waxing of its powers
     With a rite in Your honor.
     I pray by the Moon,
     I pray by the Moon,
     I pray by the Moon.

     Continue chanting "I pray by the Moon"  for as long as you will.  Visualize the Goddess if you so desire, perhaps as a tall, robust woman wearing silver jewelry and white, rippling, draped clothing.  A cresent Moon may rest upon Her brow, or She may toss a glowing silvery white orb in Her hands.  She trods the starfield of eternal night in an eternal round with Her lover, the Sun God, speading moonrays wherever She goes.  Her eyes laugh, Her skin is white and translucent. She glows.
     Now is the time for magick of all types, for the full of the Moon marks the height of its powers, and all positive spells cast then are powerful.
     Full Moons are also excellent times for meditation, mirror magick and psychic workings, for such are often more successful within the circle.  Crystal-scrying is particularly recommended; flood the crystal with moonlight prior to the ritual.  If you have no crystal sphere, use the cauldron filled with water and the piece of silver.  Gaze at the water (or at the Moon glinting on the silver) to awaken your psychic awareness.
     Lunar liquids such as lemonade, milk or white wine can be consumed during the simple feast that follows.  Cresent cakes are traditional as well.
     Thank the Goddess and God and release the circle.  It is done.
