ab:tools1.txt                                                      16jan90


                                The Working Tools


    There are no magical supply shops, so unless you are lucky enough to be 
    given or sold tools, a poor witch must extemporise. But when made you 
    should be able to borrow or obtain an Athame. So having made your 
    circle, erect an altar. Any small table or chest will do. There must be 
    fire on it (a candle will suffice) and your book. For good results 
    incense is best if you can get it, but coals in a chafing dish burning 
    sweet-smelling herbs will do. A cup if you would have cakes and wine 
    and a platter with the signs drawn into same in ink, showing a 
    pentacle. A scourge is easily made (note, the scourge has eight tails 
    and five knots in each tail). Get a white-hilted knife and a wand (a 
    sword is not necessary). Cut the marks with Athame. Purify everything, 
    then consecrate your tools in proper form and ever be properly 
    prepared. But ever remember, magical operations are useless unless the 
    mind can be brought to the proper attitude, keyed to the uttmost pitch.  

    Affirmations must be made clearly and the mind should be inflamed with 
    desire.  With this frenzy of will you may do as much with simple tools 
    as with the most complete set. But good and especially ancient tools 
    have their own aura. They do help to bring about that reverential 
    spirit, the desire to learn and develop your powers. For this reason 
    witches ever try to obtain tools from sorcerers, who being skilled men 
    make good tools and consecrate them well, giving them mighty power. But 
    a great witch's tools also gain much power; and you should ever strive 
    to make any tools you manufacture of the finest materials you can 
    obtain, to the end that they may absorb your power the more easily. And 
    of course if you may inherit or obtain another witch's tools, power 
    will flow from them.  
----------
    -Published in Janet & Stewart Farrar's "The Witches' Way", from GBG's
     Text B/C BOS

