
 * Forwarded from "Adult Links - SysOps 042"
 * Originally from Bob Schmedake
 * Originally dated 10-30-90 17:30

* Original: FROM.....Sue Setley (100/380)
* Original: TO.......All (100/520)
* Forwarded by.......OPUS 100/520

Here is the transcript. I downloaded it from another board.  ASSUMING, that
is, I can manage to put it up here.  This is try number two (after 15 I'm
going to stop reporting how many times I've tried! - grin)

Downloaded from Electronic Communications

39/50: Transcript of KSDK Newscast
Name: Night Writer #80 @13454
Date: Wed Oct 24 06:32:20 1990

Well, here is the transcript of what I recorded off the channel 5 news this
evening concerning the occult-related bulletin boards.  I missed the first 10
seconds or so, but managed to record most of it.  The story is narrated by
Deanne Lane, of KSDK (channel 5) News.  It begins with Deanne talking in the
newsroom with a picture of a keyboard and monitor in the background and the
word "Occult" printed across them.

                                    START

DEANNE:  "...several of these programs because they say children as young as
12 are gaining access to them.  Among the bulletin board systems in question -
'Weirdbase', 'PaganNet', and 'Threadfall'. Participants we spoke with say they
are virtually harmless.  Parents argue they can lead to drugs and lead their
children away from home. That's what happened to the family you are about to
meet.  They are concealing their identities."

SILHOUETTE OF MAN

EMOTIONAL OLDER MAN:  "It makes you mad you don't know what happened
necessarily.  It um, you worry, you're afraid that they'll be hurt."

BACK OF WOMAN'S HEAD AS DEANNE SPEAKS

DEANNE:  "This woman claims her son ran away after being enticed by the
controversial computer systems.  As we reported, anyone with a computer, phone
line, and modem can get involved.  Users claim the programs deal with
witchcraft and pagan religions.  But they admit some youngsters can get in too
deep, as this 15-year-old runaway explains."

GARBLED PICTURE OF YOUTH

YOUTH:  "I guess they can get hooked on it and, um, start spending too much
time in it and, um, ignoring other parts of their life and, um, some people
can get just carried away with the... they think they can get power out of the
magic."

CAMERA PAN OF OCCULT AND MAGIC BOOKS ON TABLE

DEANNE:  "But his grandmother and the police officers who picked this
15-year-old up say the most frightening aspect of these computer subcultures
is that they are a way for older users to lure youngsters and that could lead
to drugs and alcohol."

SILHOUETTE OF OLDER MAN

OLDER MAN:  "I think it's more sex than anything, I'll be frank with you.
And I think there's a trend of it, let's face it.  I'll be very frank about
it, I think that the... it's kind of a feather in their cap to get the young
virgin."

DEANNE:  "And this advice from a concerned mother:"

SILHOUETTE OF WOMAN

EMOTIONAL OLDER WOMAN:  "They never give up, and um, that they try and do
whatever they can and do the right thing."

DEANNE BACK IN NEWSROOM

DEANNE:  "And as we mentioned last night at 10, keep an eye on what's going
on.  The [missing word - sic] of the woman we spoke with there said her son
would be up 24 hours a day, in the middle of the night, when everyone else was
sleeping, communicating with these older people and it led to problems."

                                     END

 * Origin: Yellow Submarine - 415-481-2806 - CAPAL (1:161/69)

