
Date:  02-11-89  11:42
From:  Lady Phoenix
To:    Mary Ladner
Subj:  Re: FAITH

EID:855a 5d40124b
>how is it the same as Wicca in other ways?
        
        I can give you a brief overview of Wicca.  (I don't speak for all
Wiccans, only myself.  There are some differences in the different
Traditions.)  
        
        We believe that the ultimate godhead is unknowable.  This doesn't
make for a good working relationship with the diety, however.  So, we break
it down into a Goddess and a God.  Different Wiccans worship different
Gods/Goddesses.  We can utilize *any* pantheon.  Some worship Pan/Diana, some
Cernnunos/Aradia, Isis/Osiris, and many others.
        We see our Goddess as being Triple Aspected -- Maiden, Mother, and
Crone, and she is reflected in the phases of the Moon -- Waxing, Full and
Waning.  We see the God as the Lord of Nature, and he is reflected in the
seasonal changes.  Like Jesus Christ, he dies for the land and the people,
and is reborn.
        
        In general, we believe in reincarnation and karma.  What you call
Heaven, we call the Summerlands.  We don't believe that Hell exists (or Satan
either.)  We believe that there should be balance in all things - when the
balance is disturbed, that's when 'evil' occurs.  Fire, for example is not
'evil'.  It could be considered such when it  becomes out of balance, as in a
forest fire, or house fire.  Controlled fire is a useful tool.  Anger is not
'evil', but when unbridled can't help but lead to negative things.  When
properly expressed and balanced with constructive working to correct that
which invoked the anger - it, too, can be a useful tool.
        
        We regard the Earth as our Mother, and try to have respect for Her
by not polluting her and try to live in harmony with Her and Her ways.
        
        Women reflect the Goddess, Men reflect the God, so the Wicca have a
Priestess and Priest to 'run' the religious services.  We call our services
circles.
        
        This was sort of an "Reader's Digest Condensed Version" of Wicca. 
If you have any questions or want more detail on any of this, please let me
know.  Thank you for asking.
        
        Blessed be  >>Phoenix<<
--- QuickBBS v2.03
 * Origin: InterVisioN "The ParaNormal Connection" 603-547-6485 HST
(1:132/123)

