
                           The Wiccan Way


Recognizing that there is more than one path to spiritual enlightenment
and that Wicca is but one of many, and that Wicca holds within itself
that belief that there is more than one type of step set to the Spiral
Dance, find here listed common denominators of the Craft.

     That there is above all the Goddess in her three fold aspect and
many are her names.  With all her names we call her maiden, mother,
and crone.

     That there is the God, consort and son, giver of strength and most
willing of sacrifice.

     That an it harm none do what ye will be the law.

     That each of her children are bound by the three fold law and that
whatever we create, be it joy or sorrow, laughter or pain, is brought
back to us three fold.

     That as she is the mother of all living things and we are all her
children, we seek to live in harmony not only with each other but with
the planet earth that is our womb and home.

     That life upon the earth is not a burden to be born but joy to be
learned and shared with others.

     That death is not an ending of existence but a step in the ongoing
process of life.

     That there is no sacrifice of blood, for she is the mother of all
living and from her all things proceed and unto her all things must
return.

     That each and every one of the children who follow this path has
no need of another between themselves and the goddess, but may find her
within themselves.

     That there shall not by intent be a desecration of another's
 symbols or beliefs for we are all seeking harmony with in the one.

     That each person's faith is private unto themselves and that
another's belief is not to be set out and made public.

     That the Wiccan way is not to seek converts, but that the way be
made open to those who for reasons of their own seek and find the
Craft.

And as it is willed, so mote it be.

                             Lady Beckett            4/88

