      To:  All                        Message #:  3759 
    From:  Paul Seymour               Submitted:  16 Jun 91 22:37:00  
 Subject:  Way of Wicca                  Status:  Public
Received:  No                             Group:  METAPHYSICAL (35)

MSGID: 1:301/9 68169c63

                            The Wiccan Way

Recognizing that there is more than one path to spiritual
enlightenment and that Wicca is but one of many, and that Wicca
holds within itself the belief that there is more than one type of
step set to the spiral dance, find here listed common denominators
of the Craft.

That there is above all the Goddess in her three-fold aspect and many
are her names.  With all her names we call her Maiden, Mother and
Crone.

That there is the God, consort and son, giver of strength and most
willing of sacrifice.

That and it harm none, do what ye will shall be the law.

That each of her children are bound by the three-fold law and that
whatever we create, be it joy or sorrow, laughter or pain, is brought
back to us three-fold.

That as she is the mother of all living things and we are all her
children, we seek to live in harmony not only with each other, but
with the planet earth that is our womb and home.

That life upon the earth is not a burden to be born, but a joy to be
learned and shared with others.

That death is not an ending of existence, but a step in the on-going
process of life.

That there is no sacrifice of blood, for She is the mother of all
living things, and from her all things proceed and unto her all
things must return.

That each and everyone of the children who follow this path has
no need of another between themselves and the Goddess, but may find
Her within themselves.

That there shall not by intent be a desecration of another's symbols
of beliefs, for we are all seeking harmony within the One.

That each person's faith is private unto themselves and that
another's belief is not to be set out and made public.

That the Wiccan way is not to seek converts, but that the way be
made open to those who for reasons of their own seek and find the
Craft.

And as it is willed, so mote it be.

--- FD 1.99c
 * Origin: The Mountain Oracle - Pagan/Occult Distribution System (1:301/9)
=-=-=-=-=
