Nachricht #4/14 in "METAPHYSICAL"  (Oeffentlich)
Datum  : 18.Mar 92 14:33
Von    : Durwydd MacTara
An     : All
Betreff: Wiccan Information Network

                      The WICCAN INFORMATION NETWORK


What is WIN?

     The Wiccan Information Network is a project of the Wiccans Invoking
Tolerance, Compassion, and Harmony Society (W.I.T.C.H.).  The WITCH Society
is a registered society in the province of British Columbia.  The WITCH
Society works to support the right of Pagans (including Goddess Worship-
pers) and Witches to practice their faith as they see fit, as it falls
within the Craft, civil, and criminal law and does not infringe in any way
on the rights of others.  WITCH is working toward the return of the Wiccan
and Pagan religions as respected faiths in society through education via
the media and by public discussion.
     The Wiccan Information Network is a non denominational Wiccan project
sponsored by the WITCH Society.  The WIN project is coordinated by the
police liaison committee of WITCH.  The WIN coordinators are responsible
for coordinating the efforts of those involved in the project.  WIN is made
up of Wiccans from all over North America and includes many Wiccans who are
law enforcement officers.

What are the objectives of WIN?

     The objectives of the Wiccan Information Network are:

          1. To monitor anti-Wiccan activities, groups and individuals;

          2. To research occult related crime;

          3. To distribute this intelligence to those in the Wiccan
          community that are affected by it; and

          4.To liaise with law enforcement agencies in order to provide
          them with accurate information on Pagan religions and occult
          related crime.

How does WIN work?

     The WIN coordinators have assigned area coordinators to specific
regions in the US and Canada.  WIN members forward any anti Wiccan infor-
mation that they come across to their area coordinators.  These coor-
dinators investigate this information and forward it to:

          1) Pagan groups in their areas affected by this information;

          2) Area coordinators of other areas affected; and

          3) The WIN coordinators.

     The WIN coordinators analyze and collate all intelligence received and
assign area coordinators to follow-up tasks if necessary.  The WIN coor-
dinators send out a monthly intelligence summary to WIN members.What else does
WIN do?

     The Wiccan Information Network also:

          1) Publishes information booklets and manuals for law enforcement
          investigators;

          2) Publishes resource directories for those seeking information
          or speakers on Pagan beliefs or occult related crime;

          3) Arranges public speaking engagements in order to brief members
          of the Pagan community on the subjects studied by WIN.

Do I have to join WIN to participate?

     No.  You don't need to join WIN to help us.  All that you need to do
is send us any information, newspaper clippings, articles, etc. that you
feel we should be aware of.  We'll make sure this information gets to the
right people.

Who receives the monthly WIN intelligence summary?

     Only WITCH Society members, WIN project members, selected Pagan
newsletters and Pagan organizations affiliated with WIN receive the monthly
intelligence summary.  You cannot subscribe to it, for security reasons.
If you'd like to become a member of WITCH the current dues are $25 (Canad-
ian) per annum, which includes notice of meetings by mail and subscription
to the WITCH Society newsletter.  A copy of the WITCH constitution and
bylaws is available upon request if you send a stamped and self addressed
envelope.

How can I become involved in WIN?

     You don't have to belong to WITCH to be a part of WIN, although it is
preferred.  If you are interested in becoming a part of WIN you should
contact the WIN coordinator with a rsum of your previous experience in
anti defamation work for the Wiccan community.  Organizations or newslet-
ters interested in obtaining WIN intelligence summaries should contact the
WIN coordinator in writing and send information on their constitution and
editorial policies.
     Donations to assist us in our work are greatly appreciated.  All
donations should be forwarded to the WITCH Society and all checks should be
made payable to the WITCH Society.

Wiccan Information Network,             W.I.T.C.H. Society,
Box 2422, Main Post Office,             c/0 2708 Belmont Ave.,
Vancouver, BC, V6B 3W7                  Victoria, BC, V8R 4A8

Colorado WIN                            New Mexico WIN
c/o Rowan Moonstone                     c/o Paul Seymour
Box 1842                                3232 San Mateo, NE., #23
Colo. Spgs., CO 80901                   Albuquerque, NM 87110

---
 * Origin: The Mountain Oracle, P.O.D.S. for CO. Springs (1:128/101)