Hello from Magic-. Doing a Telnet from Magic-. OBS. Now Magic- and Sol- have spoken. Bye
Awesome computer! Cheers from Australia. Cool to see a guestbook function :
Congratulations Paulo !! Excellent job !! Monica
Hello from switzerland!
hello from the bay area ! -sk
Hello from Germany, i like the Idea!
Greetings from Copenhagen, Denmark. Nice project! Merry Christmas from Jakob
Greetings from Cape Town, Sou|h Africa.  Merry Christmas everyone!
Hello from Paris ! Nice project !
Very impressive!  -Matthew Richards, Illinois, USA
Greetings from Vancouver, Canada! Awesome project, I wish I had the time to make something like this.
Hello. It is an interesting project you made. Eduard from Slovakia, currently living in Germany
Saludos desde Madrid! Nice work
Cool stuff, /FCA
Signing the guestbook from Texas!  Cool project!
Ciao from Venice, Italy! :
Hello there! :-
Great work and Greetings from Everett, WA
Hello from Brussels ! Nice job, is there drawings, plan somewhere ?
Hello From Canada!
Nice system!
Greetings from the WABAC Machine BBS.
Hello from Germany, very cool project and nice to see that im not the only one who is interestet in such stuff (-:
Greetings from Abruzzo Italy
Hi0from Essex.  Great demo.  I like the idea of a fully microcoded CPU, effectively you could emulate any cpu you wished.  Impressive!
Outstanding project, Paulo. Just phenomenal. Thanks for sharing, Bulgaria
Hello From Canada!  Very cool platform!
Hello from brazil
Lou Narcisi from Facebook says hello!
Lou from Facebook is in Evanston, Illinois - near Chicago
Hello From Greensboro NC! Great work man!
Hello from Melbourne Australia, love your project
Hello from Poland! This is amazing project! Great work.
Hello from the USA I'm from Pittsburgh, PA. - Van
Great Job Paulo!!! Alessio - Italy
So good to see, many thanks for sharing with us. Pierre aka nunux for Marseille, France.
Simply amazing! You are so clever and an inspiration to others for doing this.
I really hope that this gives people the push they need to try experiments like this for themselves. Bravo! From Richard. Birmingham UK
@Nippur was here! Greetings from Italy
Hello world ...
Thomas was here!
Hello from Mark T.
Hey from Ontario, Canada! - Matthew (@MTPiercey
Ellison from Atlanta, Georgia! This is awesome!
Irfan was here.  This is so blimmin' cool!
Greetings from Fort Worth, Texas!
Hello old circuitry, hope all is swell UwU
Really Cool!
Hello from Columbus Ohio! Eric Floehr here.
Hi from Centreville, Virginia USA! Nice work
Good work. Best compliments! (Salvo Rosta
delmar williams jr
Hello from Atlanta! David.
Hello from Finland, please keep on posting the circuit(and OSprn :
Hi Paul, Dwaine from Burbank. Thanks for sharing!
Hello, it's Lou from Chicago, saying hi again. Looks as though the font is different. Very cool, looks even better. Wishing you the best ...
Hello from y2kbugger, in OHIO. great project!!! can't wait to see more.

