
                       AESOP'S FABLES (84 Fables)


From The PaperLess Readers Club, Houston (713) 977-9505 (BBS)
                               Voice/Fax (713) 977-1719

1-21                                    22-42
  The Cock and the Pearl                  The Frog and the Ox
  The Wolf and the Lamb                   Androcles
  The Dog and the Shadow                  The Bat, the Birds, and the Beasts
  The Lion's Share                        The Hart and the Hunter
  The Wolf and the Crane                  The Serpent and the File
  The Man and the Serpent                 The Man and the Wood
  The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse    The Dog and the Wolf
  The Fox and the Crow                    The Belly and the Members
  The Sick Lion                           The Hart in the Ox-Stall
  The Ass and the Lapdog                  The Fox and the Grapes
  The Lion and the Mouse                  The Horse, Hunter, and Stag
  The Swallow and the Other Birds         The Peacock and Juno
  The Frogs Desiring a King               The Fox and the Lion
  The Mountains in Labour                 The Lion and the Statue
  The Hares and the Frogs                 The Ant and the Grasshopper
  The Wolf and the Kid                    The Tree and the Reed
  The Woodman and the Serpent             The Fox and the Cat
  The Bald Man and the Fly                The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing
  The Fox and the Stork                   The Dog in the Manger
  The Fox and the Mask                    The Man and the Wooden God
  The Jay and the Peacock                 The Fisher

43-63                                   64-84
  The Shepherd's Boy                      The Miser and His Gold
  The Young Thief and His Mother          The Fox and the Mosquitoes
  The Man and His Two Wives               The Fox Without a Tail
  The Nurse and the Wolf                  The One-Eyed Doe
  The Tortoise and the Birds              Belling the Cat
  The Two Crabs                           The Hare and the Tortoise
  The Ass in the Lion's Skin              The Old Man and Death
  The Two Fellows and the Bear            The Hare With Many Friends
  The Two Pots                            The Lion in Love
  The Four Oxen and the Lion              The Bundle of Sticks
  The Fisher and the Little Fish          The Lion, the Fox, and the Beasts
  Avaricious and Envious                  The Ass's Brains
  The Crow and the Pitcher                The Eagle and the Arrow
  The Man and the Satyr                   The Milkmaid and Her Pail
  The Goose With the Golden Eggs          The Cat-Maiden
  The Labourer and the Nightingale        The Horse and the Ass
  The Fox, the Cock, and the Dog          The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner
  The Wind and the Sun                    The Buffoon and the Countryman
  Hercules and the Waggoner               The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar
  The Man, the Boy, and the Donkey        The Fox and the Goat



Aesop's Fables


  The Cock and the Pearl


A cock was once strutting up and down the farmyard among the
hens when suddenly he espied something shinning amid the straw.
"Ho! ho!" quoth he, "that's for me," and soon rooted it out from
beneath the straw.  What did it turn out to be but a Pearl that by
some chance had been lost in the yard?  "You may be a treasure,"
quoth Master Cock, "to men that prize you, but for me I would
rather have a single barley-corn than a peck of pearls."

Precious things are for those that can prize them.



  The Wolf and the Lamb


Once upon a time a Wolf was lapping at a spring on a hillside,
when, looking up, what should he see but a Lamb just beginning to
drink a little lower down.  "There's my supper," thought he, "if
only I can find some excuse to seize it."  Then he called out to
the Lamb, "How dare you muddle the water from which I am
drinking?"

"Nay, master, nay," said Lambikin; "if the water be muddy up
there, I cannot be the cause of it, for it runs down from you to
me."

"Well, then," said the Wolf, "why did you call me bad names
this time last year?"

"That cannot be," said the Lamb; "I am only six months old."

"I don't care," snarled the Wolf; "if it was not you it was
your father;" and with that he rushed upon the poor little Lamb
and
 .WARRA WARRA WARRA WARRA WARRA
 .ate her all up.  But before she died she gasped out
 ."Any excuse will serve a tyrant."



  The Dog and the Shadow


It happened that a Dog had got a piece of meat and was
carrying it home in his mouth to eat it in peace.  Now on his way
home he had to cross a plank lying across a running brook.  As he
crossed, he looked down and saw his own shadow reflected in the
water beneath.  Thinking it was another dog with another piece of
meat, he made up his mind to have that also.  So he made a snap at
the shadow in the water, but as he opened his mouth the piece of
meat fell out, dropped into the water and was never seen more.

Beware lest you lose the substance by grasping at the shadow.



  The Lion's Share


The Lion went once a-hunting along with the Fox, the Jackal,
and the Wolf.  They hunted and they hunted till at last they
surprised a Stag, and soon took its life.  Then came the question
how the spoil should be divided.  "Quarter me this Stag," roared
the Lion; so the other animals skinned it and cut it into four
parts.  Then the Lion took his stand in front of the carcass and
pronounced judgment:  The first quarter is for me in my capacity
as King of Beasts; the second is mine as arbiter; another share
comes to me for my part in the chase; and as for the fourth
quarter, well, as for that, I should like to see which of you will
dare to lay a paw upon it."

"Humph," grumbled the Fox as he walked away with his tail
between his legs; but he spoke in a low growl
 ."You may share the labours of the great,
but you will not share the spoil."



  The Wolf and the Crane


A Wolf had been gorging on an animal he had killed, when
suddenly a small bone in the meat stuck in his throat and he could
not swallow it.  He soon felt terrible pain in his throat, and ran
up and down groaning and groaning and seeking for something to
relieve the pain.  He tried to induce every one he met to remove
the bone.  "I would give anything," said he, "if you would take it
out."  At last the Crane agreed to try, and told the Wolf to lie
on his side and open his jaws as wide as he could.  Then the Crane
put its long neck down the Wolf's throat, and with its beak
loosened the bone, till at last it got it out.

"Will you kindly give me the reward you promised?" said the
Crane.

The Wolf grinned and showed his teeth and said: "Be content.
You have put your head inside a Wolf's mouth and taken it out
again in safety; that ought to be reward enough for you."

Gratitude and greed go not together.



  The Man and the Serpent


A Countryman's son by accident trod upon a Serpent's tail,
which turned and bit him so that he died.  The father in a rage
got his axe, and pursuing the Serpent, cut off part of its tail.
So the Serpent in revenge began stinging several of the Farmer's
cattle and caused him severe loss.  Well, the Farmer thought it
best to make it up with the Serpent, and brought food and honey to
the mouth of its lair, and said to it: "Let's forget and forgive;
perhaps you were right to punish my son, and take vengeance on my
cattle, but surely I was right in trying to revenge him; now that
we are both satisfied why should not we be friends again?"

"No, no," said the Serpent; "take away your gifts; you can
never forget the death of your son, nor I the loss of my tail."

Injuries may be forgiven, but not forgotten.



  The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse


Now you must know that a Town Mouse once upon a time went on a
visit to his cousin in the country.  He was rough and ready, this
cousin, but he loved his town friend and made him heartily
welcome.  Beans and bacon, cheese and bread, were all he had to
offer, but he offered them freely.  The Town Mouse rather turned
up his long nose at this country fare, and said: "I cannot
understand, Cousin, how you can put up with such poor food as
this, but of course you cannot expect anything better in the
country; come you with me and I will show you how to live.  When
you have been in town a week you will wonder how you could ever
have stood a country life."  No sooner said than done: the two
mice set off for the town and arrived at the Town Mouse's
residence late at night.  "You will want some refreshment after
our long journey," said the polite Town Mouse, and took his friend
into the grand dining-room.  There they found the remains of a
fine feast, and soon the two mice were eating up jellies and cakes
and all that was nice.  Suddenly they heard growling and barking.
"What is that?" said the Country Mouse.  "It is only the dogs of
the house," answered the other.  "Only!" said the Country Mouse.
"I do not like that music at my dinner."  Just at that moment the
door flew open, in came two huge mastiffs, and the two mice had to
scamper down and run off.  "Good-bye, Cousin," said the Country
Mouse, "What! going so soon?" said the other.  "Yes," he replied;

"Better beans and bacon in peace
than cakes and ale in fear."



  The Fox and the Crow


A Fox once saw a Crow fly off with a piece of cheese in its
beak and settle on a branch of a tree.  "That's for me, as I am a
Fox," said Master Reynard, and he walked up to the foot of the
tree.  "Good-day, Mistress Crow," he cried.  "How well you are
looking to-day: how glossy your feathers; how bright your eye.  I
feel sure your voice must surpass that of other birds, just as
your figure does; let me hear but one song from you that I may
greet you as the Queen of Birds."  The Crow lifted up her head and
began to caw her best, but the moment she opened her mouth the
piece of cheese fell to the ground, only to be snapped up by
Master Fox.  "That will do," said he.  "That was all I wanted.  In
exchange for your cheese I will give you a piece of advice for the
future
 ."Do not trust flatterers."



  The Sick Lion


A Lion had come to the end of his days and lay sick unto death
at the mouth of his cave, gasping for breath.  The animals, his
subjects, came round him and drew nearer as he grew more and more
helpless.  When they saw him on the point of death they thought to
themselves: "Now is the time to pay off old grudges."  So the Boar
came up and drove at him with his tusks; then a Bull gored him
with his horns; still the Lion lay helpless before them: so the
Ass, feeling quite safe from danger, came up, and turning his tail
to the Lion kicked up his heels into his face.  "This is a double
death," growled the Lion.

Only cowards insult dying majesty.



  The Ass and the Lapdog


A Farmer one day came to the stables to see to his beasts of
burden: among them was his favourite Ass, that was always well fed
and often carried his master.  With the Farmer came his Lapdog,
who danced about and licked his hand and frisked about as happy as
could be.  The Farmer felt in his pocket, gave the Lapdog some
dainty food, and sat down while he gave his orders to his
servants.  The Lapdog jumped into his master's lap, and lay there
blinking while the Farmer stroked his ears.  The Ass, seeing this,
broke loose from his halter and commenced prancing about in
imitation of the Lapdog.  The Farmer could not hold his sides with
laughter, so the Ass went up to him, and putting his feet upon the
Farmer's shoulder attempted to climb into his lap.  The Farmer's
servants rushed up with sticks and pitchforks and soon taught the
Ass that
 .Clumsy jesting is no joke.



  The Lion and the Mouse


Once when a Lion was asleep a little Mouse began running up
and down upon him; this soon wakened the Lion, who placed his huge
paw upon him, and opened his big jaws to swallow him.  "Pardon, O
King," cried the little Mouse: "forgive me this time, I shall
never forget it: who knows but what I may be able to do you a turn
some of these days?"  The Lion was so tickled at the idea of the
Mouse being able to help him, that he lifted up his paw and let
him go.  Some time after the Lion was caught in a trap, and the
hunters who desired to carry him alive to the King, tied him to a
tree while they went in search of a waggon to carry him on.  Just
then the little Mouse happened to pass by, and seeing the sad
plight in which the Lion was, went up to him and soon gnawed away
the ropes that bound the King of the Beasts.  "Was I not right?"
said the little Mouse.

Little friends may prove great friends.



  The Swallow and the Other Birds


It happened that a Countryman was sowing some hemp seeds in a
field where a Swallow and some other birds were hopping about
picking up their food.  "Beware of that man," quoth the Swallow.
"Why, what is he doing?" said the others.  "That is hemp seed he
is sowing; be careful to pick up every one of the seeds, or else
you will repent it."  The birds paid no heed to the Swallow's
words, and by and by the hemp grew up and was made into cord, and
of the cords nets were made, and many a bird that had despised the
Swallow's advice was caught in nets made out of that very hemp.
"What did I tell you?" said the Swallow.

Destroy the seed of evil, or it will grow up to your ruin.



  The Frogs Desiring a King


The Frogs were living as happy as could be in a marshy swamp
that just suited them; they went splashing about caring for nobody
and nobody troubling with them.  But some of them thought that
this was not right, that they should have a king and a proper
constitution, so they determined to send up a petition to Jove to
give them what they wanted.  "Mighty Jove," they cried, "send unto
us a king that will rule over us and keep us in order."  Jove
laughed at their croaking, and threw down into the swamp a huge
Log, which came downrplashto the swamp.  The Frogs
were frightened out of their lives by the commotion made in their
midst, and all rushed to the bank to look at the horrible monster;
but after a time, seeing that it did not move, one or two of the
boldest of them ventured out towards the Log, and even dared to
touch it; still it did not move.  Then the greatest hero of the
Frogs jumped upon the Log and commenced dancing up and down upon
it, thereupon all the Frogs came and did the same; and for some
time the Frogs went about their business every day without taking
the slightest notice of their new King Log lying in their midst.
But this did not suit them, so they sent another petition to Jove,
and said to him, "We want a real king; one that will really rule
over us."  Now this made Jove angry, so he sent among them a big
Stork that soon set to work gobbling them all up.  Then the Frogs
repented when too late.

Better no rule than cruel rule.



  The Mountains in Labour


One day the Countrymen noticed that the Mountains were in
labour; smoke came out of their summits, the earth was quaking at
their feet, trees were crashing, and huge rocks were tumbling.
They felt sure that something horrible was going to happen.  They
all gathered together in one place to see what terrible thing this
could be.  They waited and they waited, but nothing came.  At last
there was a still more violent earthquake, and a huge gap appeared
in the side of the Mountains.  They all fell down upon their knees
and waited.  At last, and at last, a teeny, tiny mouse poked its
little head and bristles out of the gap and came running down
towards them, and ever after they used to say:

"Much outcry, little outcome."



  The Hares and the Frogs



The Hares were so persecuted by the other beasts, they did not
know where to go.  As soon as they saw a single animal approach
them, off they used to run.  One day they saw a troop of wild
Horses stampeding about, and in quite a panic all the Hares
scuttled off to a lake hard by, determined to drown themselves
rather than live in such a continual state of fear.  But just as
they got near the bank of the lake, a troop of Frogs, frightened
in their turn by the approach of the Hares scuttled off, and
jumped into the water.  "Truly," said one of the Hares, "things
are not so bad as they seem:

"There is always someone worse off than yourself."



  The Wolf and the Kid


A Kid was perched up on the top of a house, and looking down
saw a Wolf passing under him.  Immediately he began to revile and
attack his enemy.  "Murderer and thief," he cried, "what do you
here near honest folks' houses?  How dare you make an appearance
where your vile deeds are known?"

"Curse away, my young friend," said the Wolf.

"It is easy to be brave from a safe distance."



  The Woodman and the Serpent


One wintry day a Woodman was tramping home from his work when
he saw something black lying on the snow.  When he came closer he
saw it was a Serpent to all appearance dead.  But he took it up
and put it in his bosom to warm while he hurried home.  As soon as
he got indoors he put the Serpent down on the hearth before the
fire.  The children watched it and saw it slowly come to life
again.  Then one of them stooped down to stroke it, but thc
Serpent raised its head and put out its fangs and was about to
sting the child to death.  So the Woodman seized his axe, and with
one stroke cut the Serpent in two.  "Ah," said he,

"No gratitude from the wicked."



  The Bald Man and the Fly


There was once a Bald Man who sat down after work on a hot
summer's day.  A Fly came up and kept buzzing about his bald pate,
and stinging him from time to time.  The Man aimed a blow at his
little enemy, but acks palm came on his head instead;
again the Fly tormented him, but this time the Man was wiser and
said:

"You will only injure yourself if you
take notice of despicable enemies."



  The Fox and the Stork


At one time the Fox and the Stork were on visiting terms and
seemed very good friends.  So the Fox invited the Stork to dinner,
and for a joke put nothing before her but some soup in a very
shallow dish.  This the Fox could easily lap up, but the Stork
could only wet the end of her long bill in it, and left the meal
as hungry as when she began.  "I am sorry," said the Fox, "the
soup is not to your liking."

"Pray do not apologise," said the Stork.  "I hope you will
return this visit, and come and dine with me soon."  So a day was
appointed when the Fox should visit the Stork; but when they were
seated at table all that was for their dinner was contained in a
very long-necked jar with a narrow mouth, in which the Fox could
not insert his snout, so all he could manage to do was to lick the
outside of the jar.

"I will not apologise for the dinner," said the Stork:

"One bad turn deserves another."



  The Fox and the Mask


A Fox had by some means got into the store-room of a theatre.
Suddenly he observed a face glaring down on him and began to be
very frightened; but looking more closely he found it was only a
Mask such as actors use to put over their face.  "Ah," said the
Fox, "you look very fine; it is a pity you have not got any
brains."

Outside show is a poor substitute for inner worth.



  The Jay and the Peacock


A Jay venturing into a yard where Peacocks used to walk, found
there a number of feathers which had fallen from the Peacocks when
they were moulting.  He tied them all to his tail and strutted
down towards the Peacocks.  When he came near them they soon
discovered the cheat, and striding up to him pecked at him and
plucked away his borrowed plumes.  So the Jay could do no better
than go back to the other Jays, who had watched his behaviour from
a distance; but they were equally annoyed with him, and told him:

"It is not only fine feathers that make fine birds."



The Frog and the Ox


"Oh Father," said a little Frog to the big one sitting by the
side of a pool, "I have seen such a terrible monster!  It was as
big as a mountain, with horns on its head, and a long tail, and it
had hoofs divided in two."

"Tush, child, tush," said the old Frog, "that was only Farmer
White's Ox.  It isn't so big either; he may be a little bit taller
than I, but I could easily make myself quite as broad; just you
see."  So he blew himself out, and blew himself out, and blew
himself out.  "Was he as big as that?" asked he.

"Oh, much bigger than that," said the young Frog.

Again the old one blew himself out, and asked the young one if
the Ox was as big as that.

"Bigger, father, bigger," was the reply.

So the Frog took a deep breath, and blew and blew and blew,
and swelled and swelled and swelled.  And then he said: "I'm sure
the Ox is not as big asBut at this moment he burst.

Self-conceit may lead to self-destruction.



Androcles


A slave named Androcles once escaped from his master and fled
to the forest.  As he was wandering about there he came upon a
Lion lying down moaning and groaning.  At first he turned to flee,
but finding that the Lion did not pursue him, he turned back and
went up to him.  As he came near, the Lion put out his paw, which
was all swollen and bleeding, and Androcles found that a huge
thorn had got into it, and was causing all the pain.  He pulled
out the thorn and bound up the paw of the Lion, who was soon able
to rise and lick the hand of Androcles like a dog.  Then the Lion
took Androcles to his cave, and every day used to bring him meat
from which to live.  But shortly afterwards both Androcles and the
Lion were captured, and the slave was sentenced to be thrown to
the Lion, after the latter had been kept without food for several
days.  The Emperor and all his Court came to see the spectacle,
and Androcles was led out into the middle of the arena.  Soon the
Lion was let loose from his den, and rushed bounding and roaring
towards his victim.  But as soon as he came near to Androcles he
recognised his friend, and fawned upon him, and licked his hands
like a friendly dog.  The Emperor, surprised at this, summoned
Androcles to him, who told him the whole story.  Whereupon the
slave was pardoned and freed, and the Lion let loose to his native
forest.

Gratitude is the sign of noble souls.



The Bat, the Birds, and the Beasts


A great conflict was about to come off between the Birds and
the Beasts.  When the two armies were collected together the Bat
hesitated which to join.  The Birds that passed his perch said:
"Come with us"; but he said: "I am a Beast."  Later on, some
Beasts who were passing underneath him looked up and said: "Come
with us"; but he said: "I am a Bird."  Luckily at the last moment
peace was made, and no battle took place, so the Bat came to the
Birds and wished to join in the rejoicings, but they all turned
against him and he had to fly away.  He then went to the Beasts,
but soon had to beat a retreat, or else they would have torn him
to pieces.  "Ah," said the Bat, "I see now,

"He that is neither one thing nor the other has no friends."



The Hart and the Hunter


The Hart was once drinking from a pool and admiring the noble
figure he made there.  "Ah," said he, "where can you see such
noble horns as these, with such antlers!  I wish I had legs more
worthy to bear such a noble crown; it is a pity they are so slim
and slight."  At that moment a Hunter approached and sent an arrow
whistling after him.  Away bounded the Hart, and soon, by the aid
of his nimble legs, was nearly out of sight of the Hunter; but not
noticing where he was going, he passed under some trees with
branches growing low down in which his antlers were caught, so
that the Hunter had time to come up.  "Alas! alas!" cried the
Hart:

"We often despise what is most useful to us."



  The Serpent and the File


A Serpent in the course of its wanderings came into an
armourer's shop.  As he glided over the floor he felt his skin
pricked by a file lying there.  In a rage he turned round upon it
and tried to dart his fangs into it; but he could do no harm to
heavy iron and had soon to give over his wrath.

It is useless attacking the insensible.



  The Man and the Wood


A Man came into a Wood one day with an axe in his hand, and
begged all the Trees to give him a small branch which he wanted
for a particular purpose.  The Trees were good-natured and gave
him one of their branches.  What did the Man do but fix it into
the axe head, and soon set to work cutting down tree after tree.
Then the Trees saw how foolish they had been in giving their enemy
the means of destroying themselves.



  The Dog and the Wolf


A gaunt Wolf was almost dead with hunger when he happened to
meet a House-dog who was passing by.  "Ah, Cousin," said the Dog.
"I knew how it would be; your irregular life will soon be the ruin
of you.  Why do you not work steadily as I do, and get your food
regularly given to you?"

"I would have no objection," said the Wolf, "if I could only
get a place."

"I will easily arrange that for you," said the Dog; "come with
me to my master and you shall share my work."

So the Wolf and the Dog went towards the town together.  On
the way there the Wolf noticed that the hair on a certain part of
the Dog's neck was very much worn away, so he asked him how that
had come about.

"Oh, it is nothing," said the Dog.  "That is only the place
where the collar is put on at night to keep me chained up; it
chafes a bit, but one soon gets used to it."

"Is that all?" said the Wolf.  "Then good-bye to you, Master
Dog."

Better starve free than be a fat slave.



  The Belly and the Members


One fine day it occurred to the Members of the Body that they
were doing all the work and the Belly was having all the food.  So
they held a meeting, and after a long discussion, decided to
strike work till the Belly consented to take its proper share of
the work.  So for a day or two, the Hands refused to take the
food, the Mouth refused to receive it, and the Teeth had no work
to do.  But after a day or two the Members began to find that they
themselves were not in a very active condition: the Hands could
hardly move, and the Mouth was all parched and dry, while the Legs
were unable to support the rest.  So thus they found that even the
Belly in its dull quiet way was doing necessary work for the Body,
and that all must work together or the Body will go to pieces.



  The Hart in the Ox-Stall


A Hart hotly pursued by the hounds fled for refuge into an
ox-stall, and buried itself in a truss of hay, leaving nothing to
be seen but the tips of his horns.  Soon after the Hunters came up
and asked if any one had seen the Hart.  The stable boys, who had
been resting after their dinner, looked round, but could see
nothing, and the Hunters went away.  Shortly afterwards the master
came in, and looking round, saw that something unusual had taken
place.  He pointed to the truss of hay and said: "What are those
two curious things sticking out of the hay?"  And when the stable
boys came to look they discovered the Hart, and soon made an end
of him.  He thus learnt that
Nothing escapes the master's eye.



  The Fox and the Grapes


One hot summer's day a Fox was strolling through an orchard
till he came to a bunch of Grapes just ripening on a vine which
had been trained over a lofty branch.  "Just the thing to quench
my thirst," quoth he.  Drawing back a few paces, he took a run and
a jump, and just missed the bunch.  Turning round again with a
One, Two, Three, he jumped up, but with no greater success.  Again
and again he tried after the tempting morsel, but at last had to
give it up, and walked away with his nose in the air, saying: "I
am sure they are sour."

It is easy to despise what you cannot get.



  The Horse, Hunter, and Stag


A quarrel had arisen between the Horse and the Stag, so the
Horse came to a Hunter to ask his help to take revenge on the
Stag.  The Hunter agreed, but said: "If you desire to conquer the
Stag, you must permit me to place this piece of iron between your
jaws, so that I may guide you with these reins, and allow this
saddle to be placed upon your back so that I may keep steady upon
you as we follow after the enemy."  The Horse agreed to the
conditions, and the Hunter soon saddled and bridled him.  Then
with the aid of the Hunter the Horse soon overcame the Stag, and
said to the Hunter: "Now, get off, and remove those things from my
mouth and back."

"Not so fast, friend," said the Hunter.  "I have now got you
under bit and spur, and prefer to keep you as you are at present."

If you allow men to use you for your own purposes,
they will use you for theirs.



  The Peacock and Juno


A Peacock once placed a petition before Juno desiring to have
the voice of a nightingale in addition to his other attractions;
but Juno refused his request.  When he persisted, and pointed out
that he was her favourite bird, she said:

"Be content with your lot;
one cannot be first in everything."



  The Fox and the Lion


When first the Fox saw the Lion he was terribly frightened,
and ran away and hid himself in the wood.  Next time however he
came near the King of Beasts he stopped at a safe distance and
watched him pass by.  The third time they came near one another
the Fox went straight up to the Lion and passed the time of day
with him, asking him how his family were, and when he should have
the pleasure of seeing him again; then turning his tail, he parted
from the Lion without much ceremony.

Familiarity breeds contempt.



  The Lion and the Statue


A Man and a Lion were discussing the relative strength of men
and lions in general.  The Man contended that he and his fellows
were stronger than lions by reason of their greater intelligence.
"Come now with me," he cried, "and I will soon prove that I am
right."  So he took him into the public gardens and showed him a
statue of Hercules overcoming the Lion and tearing his mouth in
two.

"That is all very well," said the Lion, "but proves nothing,
for it was a man who made the statue."

We can easily represent things as we wish them to be.



  The Ant and the Grasshopper


In a field one summer's day a Grasshopper was hopping about,
chirping and singing to its heart's content.  An Ant passed by,
bearing along with great toil an ear of corn he was taking to the
nest.

"Why not come and chat with me," said the Grasshopper,
"instead of toiling and moiling in that way?"

"I am helping to lay up food for the winter," said the Ant,
"and recommend you to do the same."

"Why bother about winter?" said the Grasshopper; we have got
plenty of food at present."  But the Ant went on its way and
continued its toil.  When the winter came the Grasshopper had no
food and found itself dying of hunger, while it saw the ants
distributing every day corn and grain from the stores they had
collected in the summer.  Then the Grasshopper knew:

It is best to prepare for the days of necessity.



  The Tree and the Reed


"Well, little one," said a Tree to a Reed that was growing at
its foot, "why do you not plant your feet deeply in the ground,
and raise your head boldly in the air as I do?"

"I am contented with my lot," said the Reed.  "I may not be so
grand, but I think I am safer."

"Safe!" sneered the Tree.  "Who shall pluck me up by the roots
or bow my head to the ground?"  But it soon had to repent of its
boasting, for a hurricane arose which tore it up from its roots,
and cast it a useless log on the ground, while the little Reed,
bending to the force of the wind, soon stood upright again when
the storm had passed over.

Obscurity often brings safety.



  The Fox and the Cat


A Fox was boasting to a Cat of its clever devices for escaping
its enemies.  "I have a whole bag of tricks," he said, "which
contains a hundred ways of escaping my enemies."

"I have only one," said the Cat; "but I can generally manage
with that."  Just at that moment they heard the cry of a pack of
hounds coming towards them, and the Cat immediately scampered up a
tree and hid herself in the boughs.  "This is my plan," said the
Cat.  "What are you going to do?"  The Fox thought first of one
way, then of another, and while he was debating the hounds came
nearer and nearer, and at last the Fox in his confusion was caught
up by the hounds and soon killed by the huntsmen.  Miss Puss, who
had been looking on, said:

"Better one safe way than a hundred on which
you cannot reckon."



  The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing


A Wolf found great difficulty in getting at the sheep owing to
the vigilance of the shepherd and his dogs.  But one day it found
the skin of a sheep that had been flayed and thrown aside, so it
put it on over its own pelt and strolled down among the sheep.
The Lamb that belonged to the sheep, whose skin the Wolf was
wearing, began to follow the Wolf in the Sheep's clothing; so,
leading the Lamb a little apart, he soon made a meal off her, and
for some time he succeeded in deceiving the sheep, and enjoying
hearty meals.

Appearances are deceptive.



  The Dog in the Manger


A Dog looking out for its afternoon nap jumped into the Manger
of an Ox and lay there cosily upon the straw.  But soon the Ox,
returning from its afternoon work, came up to the Manger and
wanted to eat some of the straw.  The Dog in a rage, being
awakened from its slumber, stood up and barked at the Ox, and
whenever it came near attempted to bite it.  At last the Ox had to
give up the hope of getting at the straw, and went away muttering:

"Ah, people often grudge others what they
cannot enjoy themselves."



  The Man and the Wooden God


In the old days men used to worship stocks and stones and
idols, and prayed to them to give them luck.  It happened that a
Man had often prayed to a wooden idol he had received from his
father, but his luck never seemed to change.  He prayed and he
prayed, but still he remained as unlucky as ever.  One day in the
greatest rage he went to the Wooden God, and with one blow swept
it down from its pedestal.  The idol broke in two, and what did he
see?  An immense number of coins flying all over the place.



  The Fisher


A Fisher once took his bagpipes to the bank of a river, and
played upon them with the hope of making the fish rise; but never
a one put his nose out of the water.  So he cast his net into the
river and soon drew it forth filled with fish.  Then he took his
bagpipes again, and, as he played, the fish leapt up in the net.
"Ah, you dance now when I play," said he.

"Yes," said an old Fish:

"When you are in a man's power you must do as he bids you."



  The Shepherd's Boy


There was once a young Shepherd Boy who tended his sheep at
the foot of a mountain near a dark forest.  It was rather lonely
for him all day, so he thought upon a plan by which he could get a
little company and some excitement.  He rushed down towards the
village calling out "Wolf, Wolf," and the villagers came out to
meet him, and some of them stopped with him for a considerable
time.  This pleased the boy so much that a few days afterwards he
tried the same trick, and again the villagers came to his help.
But shortly after this a Wolf actually did come out from the
forest, and began to worry the sheep, and the boy of course cried
out "Wolf, Wolf," still louder than before.  But this time the
villagers, who had been fooled twice before, thought the boy was
again deceiving them, and nobody stirred to come to his help.  So
the Wolf made a good meal off the boy's flock, and when the boy
complained, the wise man of the village said:

"A liar will not be believed, even when he speaks the truth."



  The Young Thief and His Mother


A young Man had been caught in a daring act of theft and had
been condemned to be executed for it.  He expressed his desire to
see his Mother, and to speak with her before he was led to
execution, and of course this was granted.  When his Mother came
to him he said: "I want to whisper to you," and when she brought
her ear near him, he nearly bit it off.  All the bystanders were
horrified, and asked him what he could mean by such brutal and
inhuman conduct.  "It is to punish her," he said.  "When I was
young I began with stealing little things, and brought them home
to Mother.  Instead of rebuking and punishing me, she laughed and
said: "It will not be noticed."  It is because of her that I am
here to-day."

"He is right, woman," said the Priest; "the Lord hath said:

"Train up a child in the way he should go; and
when he is old he will not depart therefrom."



  The Man and His Two Wives


In the old days, when men were allowed to have many wives, a
middle-aged Man had one wife that was old and one that was young;
each loved him very much, and desired to see him like herself.
Now the Man's hair was turning grey, which the young Wife did not
like, as it made him look too old for her husband.  So every night
she used to comb his hair and pick out the white ones.  But the
elder Wife saw her husband growing grey with great pleasure, for
she did not like to be mistaken for his mother.  So every morning
she used to arrange his hair and pick out as many of the black
ones as she could.  The consequence was the Man soon found himself
entirely bald.

Yield to all and you will soon have nothing to yield.



  The Nurse and the Wolf


"Be quiet now," said an old Nurse to a child sitting on her
lap.  "If you make that noise again I will throw you to the Wolf."

Now it chanced that a Wolf was passing close under the window
as this was said.  So he crouched down by the side of the house
and waited.  "I am in good luck to-day," thought he.  "It is sure
to cry soon, and a daintier morsel I haven't had for many a long
day."  So he waited, and he waited, and he waited, till at last
the child began to cry, and the Wolf came forward before the
window, and looked up to the Nurse, wagging his tail.  But all the
Nurse did was to shut down the window and call for help, and the
dogs of the house came rushing out.  "Ah," said the Wolf as he
galloped away,

"Enemies promises were made to be broken."



  The Tortoise and the Birds


A Tortoise desired to change its place of residence, so he
asked an Eagle to carry him to his new home, promising her a rich
reward for her trouble.  The Eagle agreed and seizing the Tortoise
by the shell with her talons soared aloft.  On their way they met
a Crow, who said to the Eagle: "Tortoise is good eating."  "The
shell is too hard," said the Eagle in reply.  "The rocks will soon
crack the shell," was the Crow's answer; and the Eagle, taking the
hint, let fall the Tortoise on a sharp rock, and the two birds
made a hearty meal of the Tortoise.

Never soar aloft on an enemy's pinions.



  The Two Crabs


One fine day two Crabs came out from their home to take a
stroll on the sand.  "Child," said the mother, "you are walking
very ungracefully.  You should accustom yourself, to walking
straight forward without twisting from side to side."

"Pray, mother," said the young one, "do but set the example
yourself, and I will follow you."

Example is the best precept.



  The Ass in the Lion's Skin


An Ass once found a Lion's skin which the hunters had left out
in the sun to dry.  He put it on and went towards his native
village.  All fled at his approach, both men and animals, and he
was a proud Ass that day.  In his delight he lifted up his voice
and brayed, but then every one knew him, and his owner came up and
gave him a sound cudgelling for the fright he had caused.  And
shortly afterwards a Fox came up to him and said: "Ah, I knew you
by your voice."

Fine clothes may disguise, but
silly words will disclose a fool.



  The Two Fellows and the Bear


Two Fellows were travelling together through a wood, when a
Bear rushed out upon them.  One of the travellers happened to be
in front, and he seized hold of the branch of a tree, and hid
himself among the leaves.  The other, seeing no help for it, threw
himself flat down upon the ground, with his face in the dust.  The
Bear, coming up to him, put his muzzle close to his ear, and
sniffed and sniffed.  But at last with a growl he shook his head
and slouched off, for bears will not touch dead meat.  Then the
fellow in the tree came down to his comrade, and, laughing, said
"What was it that Master Bruin whispered to you?"

"He told me," said the other,

"Never trust a friend who deserts you at a pinch."



  The Two Pots


Two Pots had been left on the bank of a river, one of brass,
and one of earthenware.  When the tide rose they both floated off
down the stream.  Now the earthenware pot tried its best to keep
aloof from the brass one, which cried out: "Fear nothing, friend,
I will not strike you."

"But I may come in contact with you," said the other, "if I
come too close; and whether I hit you, or you hit me, I shall
suffer for it."

The strong and the weak cannot keep company.



  The Four Oxen and the Lion


A Lion used to prowl about a field in which Four Oxen used to
dwell.  Many a time he tried to attack them; but whenever he came
near they turned their tails to one another, so that whichever way
he approached them he was met by the horns of one of them.  At
last, however, they fell a-quarrelling among themselves, and each
went off to pasture alone in a separate corner of the field.  Then
the Lion attacked them one by one and soon made an end of all
four.

United we stand, divided we fall.



  The Fisher and the Little Fish


It happened that a Fisher, after fishing all day, caught only
a little fish.  "Pray, let me go, master," said the Fish.  "I am
much too small for your eating just now.  If you put me back into
the river I shall soon grow, then you can make a fine meal off
me."

"Nay, nay, my little Fish," said the Fisher, "I have you now.
I may not catch you hereafter."

A little thing in hand is worth more than
a great thing in prospect.



  Avaricious and Envious


Two neighbours came before Jupiter and prayed him to grant
their hearts' desire.  Now the one was full of avarice, and the
other eaten up with envy.  So to punish them both, Jupiter granted
that each might have whatever he wished for himself, but only on
condition that his neighbour had twice as much.  The Avaricious
man prayed to have a room full of gold.  No sooner said than done;
but all his joy was turned to grief when he found that his
neighbour had two rooms full of the precious metal.  Then came the
turn of the Envious man, who could not bear to think that his
neighbour had any joy at all.  So he prayed that he might have one
of his own eyes put out, by which means his companion would become
totally blind.

Vices are their own punishment.



  The Crow and the Pitcher


A Crow, half-dead with thirst, came upon a Pitcher which had
once been full of water; but when the Crow put its beak into the
mouth of the Pitcher he found that only very little water was left
in it, and that he could not reach far enough down to get at it.
He tried, and he tried, but at last had to give up in despair.
Then a thought came to him, and he took a pebble and dropped it
into the Pitcher.  Then he took another pebble and dropped it into
the Pitcher.  Then he took another pebble and dropped that into
the Pitcher.  Then he took another pebble and dropped that into
the Pitcher.  Then he took another pebble and dropped that into
the Pitcher.  Then he took another pebble and dropped that into
the Pitcher.  At last, at last, he saw the water mount up near
him, and after casting in a few more pebbles he was able to quench
his thirst and save his life.

Little by little does the trick.



  The Man and the Satyr


A Man had lost his way in a wood one bitter winter's night.
As he was roaming about, a Satyr came up to him, and finding that
he had lost his way, promised to give him a lodging for the night,
and guide him out of the forest in the morning.  As he went along
to the Satyr's cell, the Man raised both his hands to his mouth
and kept on blowing at them.  "What do you do that for?" said the
Satyr.

"My hands are numb with the cold," said the Man, "and my
breath warms them."

After this they arrived at the Satyr's home, and soon the
Satyr put a smoking dish of porridge before him.  But when the Man
raised his spoon to his mouth he began blowing upon it.  "And what
do you do that for?" said the Satyr.

"The porridge is too hot, and my breath will cool it."

"Out you go," said the Satyr.  "I will have nought to do with
a man who can blow hot and cold with the same breath."



  The Goose With the Golden Eggs


One day a countryman going to the nest of his Goose found
there an egg all yellow and glittering.  When he took it up it was
as heavy as lead and he was going to throw it away, because he
thought a trick had been played upon him.  But he took it home on
second thoughts, and soon found to his delight that it was an egg
of pure gold.  Every morning the same thing occurred, and he soon
became rich by selling his eggs.  As he grew rich he grew greedy;
and thinking to get at once all the gold the Goose could give, he
killed it and opened it only to find nothing.

Greed oft o'er reaches itself.



  The Labourer and the Nightingale


A Labourer lay listening to a Nightingale's song throughout
the summer night.  So pleased was he with it that the next night
he set a trap for it and captured it.  "Now that I have caught
thee," he cried, "thou shalt always sing to me."

"We Nightingales never sing in a cage." said the bird.

"Then I'll eat thee." said the Labourer.  "I have always heard
say that a nightingale on toast is dainty morsel."

"Nay, kill me not," said the Nightingale; "but let me free,
and I'll tell thee three things far better worth than my poor
body."  The Labourer let him loose, and he flew up to a branch of
a tree and said: "Never believe a captive's promise; that's one
thing.  Then again: Keep what you have.  And third piece of advice
is: Sorrow not over what is lost forever."  Then the song-bird
flew away.



  The Fox, the Cock, and the Dog


One moonlight night a Fox was prowling about a farmer's
hen-coop, and saw a Cock roosting high up beyond his reach.  "Good
news, good news!" he cried.

"Why, what is that?" said the Cock.

"King Lion has declared a universal truce.  No beast may hurt
a bird henceforth, but all shall dwell together in brotherly
friendship."

"Why, that is good news," said the Cock; "and there I see some
one coming, with whom we can share the good tidings."  And so
saying he craned his neck forward and looked afar off.

"What is it you see?" said the Fox.

"It is only my master's Dog that is coming towards us.  What,
going so soon?" he continued, as the Fox began to turn away as
soon as he had heard the news.  "Will you not stop and
congratulate the Dog on the reign of universal peace?"

"I would gladly do so," said the Fox, "but I fear he may not
have heard of King Lion's decree."

Cunning often outwits itself.



  The Wind and the Sun


The Wind and the Sun were disputing which was the stronger.
Suddenly they saw a traveller coming down the road, and the Sun
said: "I see a way to decide our dispute.  Whichever of us can
cause that traveller to take off his cloak shall be regarded as
the stronger.  You begin."  So the Sun retired behind a cloud, and
the Wind began to blow as hard as it could upon the traveller.
But the harder he blew the more closely did the traveller wrap his
cloak round him, till at last the Wind had to give up in despair.
Then the Sun came out and shone in all his glory upon the
traveller, who soon found it too hot to walk with his cloak on.

Kindness effects more than severity.



  Hercules and the Waggoner


A Waggoner was once driving a heavy load along a very muddy
way.  At last he came to a part of the road where the wheels sank
half-way into the mire, and the more the horses pulled, the deeper
sank the wheels.  So the Waggoner threw down his whip, and knelt
down and prayed to Hercules the Strong.  "O Hercules, help me in
this my hour of distress," quoth he.  But Hercules appeared to
him, and said:

"Tut, man, don't sprawl there.  Get up and put your shoulder
to the wheel."

The gods help them that help themselves.



  The Man, the Boy, and the Donkey


A Man and his son were once going with their Donkey to market.
As they were walking along by its side a countryman passed them
and said: "You fools, what is a Donkey for but to ride upon?"

So the Man put the Boy on the Donkey and they went on their
way.  But soon they passed a group of men, one of whom said: "See
that lazy youngster, he lets his father walk while he rides."

So the Man ordered his Boy to get off, and got on himself.
But they hadn't gone far when they passed two women, one of whom
said to the other: "Shame on that lazy lout to let his poor little
son trudge along."

Well, the Man didn't know what to do, but at last he took his
Boy up before him on the Donkey.  By this time they had come to
the town, and the passers-by began to jeer and point at them.  The
Man stopped and asked what they were scoffing at.  The men said:
"Aren't you ashamed of yourself for overloading that poor donkey
of yoursu and your hulking son?"

The Man and Boy got off and tried to think what to do.  They
thought and they thought, till at last they cut down a pole, tied
the donkey's feet to it, and raised the pole and the donkey to
their shoulders.  They went along amid the laughter of all who met
them till they came to Market Bridge, when the Donkey, getting one
of his feet loose, kicked out and caused the Boy to drop his end
of the pole.  In the struggle the Donkey fell over the bridge, and
his fore-feet being tied together he was drowned.

"That will teach you," said an old man who had followed them:

"Please all, and you will please none."



  The Miser and His Gold


Once upon a time there was a Miser who used to hide his gold
at the foot of a tree in his garden; but every week he used to go
and dig it up and gloat over his gains.  A robber, who had noticed
this, went and dug up the gold and decamped with it.  When the
Miser next came to gloat over his treasures, he found nothing but
the empty hole.  He tore his hair, and raised such an outcry that
all the neighbours came around him, and he told them how he used
to come and visit his gold.  "Did you ever take any of it out?"
asked one of them.

"Nay," said he, "I only came to look at it."

"Then come again and look at the hole," said a neighbour; "it
will do you just as much good."

Wealth unused might as well not exist.



  The Fox and the Mosquitoes


A Fox after crossing a river got its tail entangled in a bush,
and could not move.  A number of Mosquitoes seeing its plight
settled upon it and enjoyed a good meal undisturbed by its tail.
A hedgehog strolling by took pity upon the Fox and went up to him:
"You are in a bad way, neighbour," said the hedgehog; "shall I
relieve you by driving off those Mosquitoes who are sucking your
blood?"

"Thank you, Master Hedgehog," said the Fox, "but I would
rather not."

"Why, how is that?" asked the hedgehog.

"Well, you see," was the answer, "these Mosquitoes have had
their fill; if you drive these away, others will come with fresh
appetite and bleed me to death."



  The Fox Without a Tail


It happened that a Fox caught its tail in a trap, and in
struggling to release himself lost all of it but the stump.  At
first he was ashamed to show himself among his fellow foxes.  But
at last he determined to put a bolder face upon his misfortune,
and summoned all the foxes to a general meeting to consider a
proposal which he had to place before them.  When they had
assembled together the Fox proposed that they should all do away
with their tails.  He pointed out how inconvenient a tail was when
they were pursued by their enemies, the dogs; how much it was in
the way when they desired to sit down and hold a friendly
conversation with one another.  He failed to see any advantage in
carrying about such a useless encumbrance.  "That is all very
well," said one of the older foxes; "but I do not think you would
have recommended us to dispense with our chief ornament if you had
not happened to lose it yourself."

Distrust interested advice.



  The One-Eyed Doe


A Doe had had the misfortune to lose one of her eyes, and
could not see any one approaching her on that side.  So to avoid
any danger she always used to feed on a high cliff near the sea,
with her sound eye looking towards the land.  By this means she
could see whenever the hunters approached her on land, and often
escaped by this means.  But the hunters found out that she was
blind of one eye, and hiring a boat rowed under the cliff where
she used to feed and shot her from the sea.  "Ah," cried she with
her dying voice,

"You cannot escape your fate."



  Belling the Cat


Long ago, the mice had a general council to consider what
measures they could take to outwit their common enemy, the Cat.
Some said this, and some said that; but at last a young mouse got
up and said he had a proposal to make, which he thought would meet
the case.  "You will all agree," said he, "that our chief danger
consists in the sly and treacherous manner in which the enemy
approaches us.  Now, if we could receive some signal of her
approach, we could easily escape from her.  I venture, therefore,
to propose that a small bell be procured, and attached by a ribbon
round the neck of the Cat.  By this means we should always know
when she was about, and could easily retire while she was in the
neighbourhood."

This proposal met with general applause, until an old mouse
got up and said: "That is all very well, but who is to bell the
Cat?"  The mice looked at one another and nobody spoke.  Then the
old mouse said:

"It is easy to propose impossible remedies."



  The Hare and the Tortoise


The Hare was once boasting of his speed before the other
animals.  "I have never yet been beaten," said he, "when I put
forth my full speed.  I challenge any one here to race with me."

The Tortoise said quietly, "I accept your challenge."

"That is a good joke," said the Hare; "I could dance round you
all the way."

"Keep your boasting till you've beaten," answered the
Tortoise.  "Shall we race?"

So a course was fixed and a start was made.  The Hare darted
almost out of sight at once, but soon stopped and, to show his
contempt for the Tortoise, lay down to have a nap.  The Tortoise
plodded on and plodded on, and when the Hare awoke from his nap,
he saw the Tortoise just near the winning-post and could not run
up in time to save the race.  Then said the Tortoise:

"Plodding wins the race."



  The Old Man and Death


An old labourer, bent double with age and toil, was gathering
sticks in a forest.  At last he grew so tired and hopeless that he
threw down the bundle of sticks, and cried out: "I cannot bear
this life any longer.  Ah, I wish Death would only come and take
me!"

As he spoke, Death, a grisly skeleton, appeared and said to
him: "What wouldst thou, Mortal?  I heard thee call me."

"Please, sir," replied the woodcutter, "would you kindly help
me to lift this faggot of sticks on to my shoulder?"

We would often be sorry if our wishes were gratified.



  The Hare With Many Friends


A Hare was very popular with the other beasts who all claimed
to be her friends.  But one day she heard the hounds approaching
and hoped to escape them by the aid of her many Friends.  So, she
went to the horse, and asked him to carry her away from the hounds
on his back.  But he declined, stating that he had important work
to do for his master.  "He felt sure," he said, "that all her
other friends would come to her assistance."  She then applied to
the bull, and hoped that he would repel the hounds with his horns.
The bull replied: "I am very sorry, but I have an appointment with
a lady; but I feel sure that our friend the goat will do what you
want."  The goat, however, feared that his back might do her some
harm if he took her upon it.  The ram, he felt sure, was the
proper friend to apply to.  So she went to the ram and told him
the case.  The ram replied: "Another time, my dear friend.  I do
not like to interfere on the present occasion, as hounds have been
known to eat sheep as well as hares."  The Hare then applied, as a
last hope, to the calf, who regretted that he was unable to help
her, as he did not like to take the responsibility upon himself,
as so many older persons than himself had declined the task.  By
this time the hounds were quite near, and the Hare took to her
heels and luckily escaped.

He that has many friends, has no friends.



  The Lion in Love


A Lion once fell in love with a beautiful maiden and proposed
marriage to her parents.  The old people did not know what to say.
They did not like to give their daughter to the Lion, yet they did
not wish to enrage the King of Beasts.  At last the father said:
"We feel highly honoured by your Majesty's proposal, but you see
our daughter is a tender young thing, and we fear that in the
vehemence of your affection you might possibly do her some injury.
Might I venture to suggest that your Majesty should have your
claws removed, and your teeth extracted, then we would gladly
consider your proposal again."  The Lion was so much in love that
he had his claws trimmed and his big teeth taken out.  But when he
came again to the parents of the young girl they simply laughed in
his face, and bade him do his worst.

Love can tame the wildest.



  The Bundle of Sticks


An old man on the point of death summoned his sons around him
to give them some parting advice.  He ordered his servants to
bring in a faggot of sticks, and said to his eldest son: "Break
it."  The son strained and strained, but with all his efforts was
unable to break the Bundle.  The other sons also tried, but none
of them was successful.  "Untie the faggots," said the father,
"and each of you take a stick."  When they had done so, he called
out to them: "Now, break," and each stick was easily broken.  "You
see my meaning," said their father.

Union gives strength.



  The Lion, the Fox, and the Beasts


The Lion once gave out that he was sick unto death and
summoned the animals to come and hear his last Will and Testament.
So the Goat came to the Lion's cave, and stopped there listening
for a long time.  Then a Sheep went in, and before she came out a
Calf came up to receive the last wishes of the Lord of the Beasts.
But soon the Lion seemed to recover, and came to the mouth of his
cave, and saw the Fox, who had been waiting outside for some time.
"Why do you not come to pay your respects to me?" said the Lion to
the Fox.

"I beg your Majesty's pardon," said the Fox, "but I noticed
the track of the animals that have already come to you; and while
I see many hoof-marks going in, I see none coming out.  Till the
animals that have entered your cave come out again I prefer to
remain in the open air."

It is easier to get into the enemy's toils than out again.



  The Ass's Brains


The Lion and the Fox went hunting together.  The Lion, on the
advice of the Fox, sent a message to the Ass, proposing to make an
alliance between their two families.  The Ass came to the place of
meeting, overjoyed at the prospect of a royal alliance.  But when
he came there the Lion simply pounced on the Ass, and said to the
Fox: "Here is our dinner for to-day.  Watch you here while I go
and have a nap.  Woe betide you if you touch my prey."  The Lion
went away and the Fox waited; but finding that his master did not
return, ventured to take out the brains of the Ass and ate them
up.  When the Lion came back he soon noticed the absence of the
brains, and asked the Fox in a terrible voice: "What have you done
with the brains?"

"Brains, your Majesty! it had none, or it would never have
fallen into your trap."

Wit has always an answer ready.



  The Eagle and the Arrow


An Eagle was soaring through the air when suddenly it heard
the whizz of an Arrow, and felt itself wounded to death.  Slowly
it fluttered down to the earth, with its life-blood pouring out of
it.  Looking down upon the Arrow with which it had been pierced,
it found that the shaft of the Arrow had been feathered with one
of its own plumes.  "Alas!" it cried, as it died,

"We often give our enemies the means for our own destruction."



  The Milkmaid and Her Pail


Patty the Milkmaid was going to market carrying her milk in a
Pail on her head.  As she went along she began calculating what
she would do with the money she would get for the milk.  "I'll buy
some fowls from Farmer Brown," said she, "and they will lay eggs
each morning, which I will sell to the parson's wife.  With the
money that I get from the sale of these eggs I'll buy myself a new
dimity frock and a chip hat; and when I go to market, won't all
the young men come up and speak to me!  Polly Shaw will be that
jealous; but I don't care.  I shall just look at her and toss my
head like this.  As she spoke she tossed her head back, the Pail
fell off it, and all the milk was spilt.  So she had to go home
and tell her mother what had occurred.

"Ah, my child," said the mother,

"Do not count your chickens before they are hatched."



  The Cat-Maiden


The gods were once disputing whether it was possible for a
living being to change its nature.  Jupiter said "Yes," but Venus
said "No."  So, to try the question, Jupiter turned a Cat into a
Maiden, and gave her to a young man for a wife.  The wedding was
duly performed and the young couple sat down to the wedding-feast.
"See," said Jupiter, to Venus, "how becomingly she behaves.  Who
could tell that yesterday she was but a Cat?  Surely her nature is
changed?"

"Wait a minute," replied Venus, and let loose a mouse into the
room.  No sooner did the bride see this than she jumped up from
her seat and tried to pounce upon the mouse.  "Ah, you see," said
Venus,

"Nature will out."



  The Horse and the Ass


A Horse and an Ass were travelling together, the Horse
prancing along in its fine trappings, the Ass carrying with
difficulty the heavy weight in its panniers.  "I wish I were you,"
sighed the Ass; "nothing to do and well fed, and all that fine
harness upon you."  Next day, however, there was a great battle,
and the Horse was wounded to death in the final charge of the day.
His friend, the Ass, happened to pass by shortly afterwards and
found him on the point of death.  "I was wrong," said the Ass:

"Better humble security than gilded danger."



  The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner


A Trumpeter during a battle ventured too near the enemy and
was captured by them.  They were about to proceed to put him to
death when he begged them to hear his plea for mercy.  "I do not
fight," said he, "and indeed carry no weapon; I only blow this
trumpet, and surely that cannot harm you; then why should you kill
me?"

"You may not fight yourself," said the others, "but you
encourage and guide your men to the fight."

Words may be deeds.



  The Buffoon and the Countryman


At a country fair there was a Buffoon who made all the people
laugh by imitating the cries of various animals.  He finished off
by squeaking so like a pig that the spectators thought that he had
a porker concealed about him.  But a Countryman who stood by said:
"Call that a pig s squeak!  Nothing like it.  You give me till
tomorrow and I will show you what it's like."  The audience
laughed, but next day, sure enough, the Countryman appeared on the
stage, and putting his head down squealed so hideously that the
spectators hissed and threw stones at him to make him stop.  "You
fools!" he cried, "see what you have been hissing," and held up a
little pig whose ear he had been pinching to make him utter the
squeals.

Men often applaud an imitation and hiss the real thing.



  The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar


You must know that sometimes old women like a glass of wine.
One of this sort once found a Wine-jar lying in the road, and
eagerly went up to it hoping to find it full.  But when she took
it up she found that all the wine had been drunk out of it.  Still
she took a long sniff at the mouth of the Jar.  "Ah," she cried,

"What memories cling 'round the instruments of our pleasure."



  The Fox and the Goat


By an unlucky chance a Fox fell into a deep well from which he
could not get out.  A Goat passed by shortly afterwards, and asked
the Fox what he was doing down there.  "Oh, have you not heard?"
said the Fox; "there is going to be a great drought, so I jumped
down here in order to be sure to have water by me.  Why don't you
come down too?"  The Goat thought well of this advice, and jumped
down into the well.  But the Fox immediately jumped on her back,
and by putting his foot on her long horns managed to jump up to
the edge of the well.  "Good-bye, friend," said the Fox, "remember
next time,

"Never trust the advice of a man in difficulties."

