                       THE WISE LlTTLE GIRL    

   Once upon a time . . . in the immense Russian steppe, lay a little village
where nearly all the inhabitants bred horses. It was the month of October,
when a big livestock market was held yearly in the main town. Two brothers,
one rich and the other one poor, set off for market. The rich man rode a 
stallion, and the poor brother a young mare.
   At dusk, they stopped beside an empty hut and tethered their horses 
outside, before going to sleep themselves on two heaps of straw. Great was 
their surprise, when, next morning they saw three horses outside, instead of 
two. Well, to be exact the newcomer was not really a horse. It was a foal, to 
which the mare had given birth during the night. Soon it had the strength to 
struggle to its feet, and after a drink of its mother's milk, the foal 
staggered its first few steps. The stallion greeted it with a cheerful whinny,
and when the two brothers set eyes on it for the first time, the foal was 
standing beside the stallion.
   "It belongs to me!" exclaimed Dimitri, the rich brother, the minute he saw
it. "It's my stallion's foal." Ivan, the poor brother, began to laugh.
   "Whoever heard of a stallion having a foal? It was born to my mare!"
   "No, that's not true! It was standing close to the stallion, so it's the
stallion's foal. And therefore it's mine!" The brothers started to quarrel,
then they decided to go to town and bring the matter before the judges. Still
arguing, they headed for the big square where the courtroom stood. But what
they didn't know was that it was a special day, the day when, once a year, the
Emperor himself administered the law. He himself received all who came seeking
justice. The brothers were ushered into his presence, and they told him all
about the dispute.
   Of course, the Emperor knew perfectly well who was the owner of the foal. 
He was on the point of proclaiming in favour of the poor brother, when
suddenly Ivan developed an unfortunate twitch in his eye. The Emperor was
greatly annoyed by this familiarity by a humble peasant, and decided to punish
Ivan for his disrespect. After listening to both sides of the story, he
declared it was difficult, indeed impossible, to say exactly who was the
foal's rightful owner. And being in the mood for a spot of fun, and since he
loved posing riddles and solving them as well, to the amusement of his 
counsellors, he exclaimed:
   "I can't judge which of you should have the foal, so it will be awarded to
whichever of you solves the following four riddles: what is the fastest thing
in the world? What is the fattest? What's the softest and what is the most
precious? I command you to return to the palace in a week's time with your
answers!" Dimitri started to puzzle over the answers as soon as he left the
courtroom. When he reached home, however, he realised he had nobody to help
him.
   "Well, I'll just have to seek help, for if I can't solve these riddles, 
I'll lose the foal!" Then he remembered a woman, one of his neighbours, to 
whom he had once lent a silver ducat. That had been some time ago, and with
the interest, the neighbour now owed him three ducats. And since she had a
reputation for being quick-witted, but also very astute, he decided to ask her
advice, in exchange for cancelling part of her debt. But the woman was not
slow to show how astute she really was, and promptly demanded that the whole
debt be wiped out in exchange for the answers.
   "The fastest thing in the world is my husband's bay horse," she said.
"Nothing can beat it! The fattest is our pig! Such a huge beast has never 
been seen! The softest is the quilt I made for the bed, using my own goose's
feathers. It's the envy of all my friends. The most precious thing in the
world is my three-month old nephew. There isn't a more handsome child. I
wouldn't exchange him for all the gold on earth, and that makes him the most
precious thing on earth!"
   Dimitri was rather doubtful about the woman's answers being correct. On the
other hand, he had to take some kind of solution back to the Emperor. And he
guessed, quite rightly, that if he didn't, he would be punished.
   In the meantime, Ivan, who was a widower, had gone back to the humble 
cottage where he lived with his small daughter. Only seven years old, the
little girl was often left alone, and as a result, was thoughtful and very
clever for her age. The poor man took the little girl into his confidence, for
like his brother, he knew he would never be able to find the answers by
himself. The child sat in silence for a moment, then firmly said:
   "Tell the Emperor that the fastest thing in the world is the cold north
wind in winter. The fattest is the soil in our fields whose crops give life to
men and animals alike, the softest thing is a child's caress and the most 
precious is honesty."
   The day came when the two brothers were to return before the Emperor. They
were led into his presence. The Emperor was curious to hear what they had to
say, but he roared with laughter at Dimitri's foolish answers. However, when
it was Ivan's turn to speak, a frown spread over the Emperor's face. The poor
brother's wise replies made him squirm, especially the last one, about 
honesty, the most precious thing of all. The Emperor knew perfectly well that
he had been dishonest in his dealings with the poor brother, for he had denied
him justice. But he could not bear to admit it in front of his own 
counsellors, so he angrily demanded:
   "Who gave you these answers?" Ivan told the Emperor that it was his small 
daughter. Still annoyed, the great man said:                      -~
   "You shall be rewarded for having such a wise and clever daughter. You
shall be awarded the foal that your brother claimed, together with a hundred
silver ducats . . . But . . . but . . ." and the Emperor winked at his
counsellors:
   "You will come before me in seven days' time, bringing your daughter. And 
since she's so clever, she must appear before me neither naked nor dressed, 
neither on foot nor on horseback, neither bearing gifts nor empty-handed. And
if she does this, you will have your reward. If not, you'll have your head
chopped off for your impudence!"
   The onlookers began to laugh, knowing that the poor man would never to able
to fulfill the Emperor's conditions. Ivan went home in despair, his eyes
brimming with tears. But when he had told his daughter what had happened, she
calmly said:
   "Tomorrow, go and catch a hare and a partridge. Both must be alive! You'll
have the foal and the hundred silver ducats! Leave it to me!" Ivan _did as his
daughter said. He had no idea what the two creatures were for, but he trusted 
in his daughter's wisdom.
   On the day of the audience with the Emperor, the palace was thronged with
bystanders, waiting for Ivan and his small daughter to arrive. At last, the
little girl appeared, draped in a fishing net, riding the hare and holdig the
partridge in her hand. She was neither naked nor dressed, on foot or on
horseback. Scowling, the Emperor told her:
   "I said neither bearing gifts nor empty-handed!" At these words, the little
girl held out the partridge. The Emperor stretched out his hand to grasp it,
but the bird fluttered into the air. The third condition had been fulfilled.
In spite of himself, the Emperor could not help admirlng the llttle girl who
had so cleverly passed such a test, and in a gentler volce, he sald: 
   "Is your father terribly poor, and does he desperately need the foal. 
   "Oh, yes!" replied the little girl. "We live on the hares he catches in the
rivers and the fish he picks from the trees!"
   "Aha!" cried the Emperor triumphantly. "So you're not as clever as you seem
to be! Whoever heard of hares in the river and fish in the trees! To which the
little girl swiftly replied:
   "And whoever heard of a stallion having a foal?" At that, both Emperor and
Court burst into peals of laughter. Ivan was immediately glven his hundred
silver ducats and the foal, and the Emperor proclalmed: 
   "Only in my kingdom could such a wise little girl be born!"
