                    THE WOLF AND THE SEVEN KIDS

   Once upon a time . . . a Mother Goat lived in a pretty little house with
her seven kids. Mother often had to leave home to do the shopping, and on that
fateful day, she had given her children the usual warnings, before setting off
to market.
   "You mustn't open the door to anyone. Don't forget, there's a wicked wolf
lurking about here. It's black, with horrible paws and a nasty deep voice. If
it knocks, keep the door tightly shut!" Mother Goat's words were wise indeed,
for as she was telling one of her neighbours about her fears, the wolf
disguised as a peasant was hiding close by, listening to every word.
   "Good! Very good!" said the wolf to himself."If the goat goes market, I'II
drop by her house and gobble the kids!' Then,trying not to look too 
conspicuous, the wolf hurried along to the goat's house. There, he threw off
his disguise. He then growled in a deep voice: "Open the door! Open the door!
It's Mother! I've just come back from market! Open the door!" When the kids
heard the deep voice, they remembered their mother's warning. From behind the
barred door, they said to the wolf: "We know who you are! You're the wolf! Our
mother has a sweet gentle voice, not a deep nasty one like yours! Go away! 
We'll never open the door to you!"
   And though the wolf banged furiously on the door, the kids, though
trembling with terror, refused to let him into the house, and so the door
remained shut. Then the wolf had a brainwave. He dashed off to the baker's and
got a big cake dripping with honey. He hoped this would sweeten his voice. And
in fact, after eating it, his voice didn't sound quite so deep. Over and over
again, he practised imitating Mother Goat's voice. You see, he'd heard it in
the woods. When he felt certain he could easily be mistaken for Mother Goat
herself, he rushed back to the house and the seven kids.
   "Open the door! Open the door! It's Mother! I've just come back from
market! Open the door!" he called. This time, the kids had doubts: the voice
did rather sound like mother's, and they were about to unlock the door, when 
the black kid suspiciously cried: "Mother, let us see your foot!" Without
thinking, the wolf raised a black hairy paw. And the kids knew that the wolf
had come back.
   "You're not our mother! She doesn't have horrid black paws!" cried the
kids. "Go away, you wicked wolf!"
   And once more, in spite of all his hard work, the wolf found the door
locked against him. The wolf ran down to the mlll, and found a sack of flour. 
He thrust his paws into it until they were pure white.
   "I'll trick them this time," he said. "Mmm! My mouth's watering already!
I'm hungry! My tummy's empty and my trousers are falling off! I'll swallow
these tender kids whole!" Again he knocked on the door. 
   "Open the door! Open the door! It's Mother! I've just come back from
market! Open the door!" The voice seemed exactly like mother's, but the wary
kids quickly called out: "Mother, let us see your foot!" The wily wolf lifted
a snow white paw, and the kids, now reassured, threw open the door. What a
shock they received! An enormous set of jaws with sharp fangs growled 
fiercely. Cruel claws reached out for their prey. The kids scattered in
terror. One dived under the table, while other crawled below the bed. Another 
kid hid in the cupboard and one tried to hide in the oven, though the stove
was still hot. One kid crouched inside a barrel and one hid in the grandfather
clock. There he huddled, holding his breath, as the wolf hunted down his 
brothers. One by one, the kids were pulled from their hiding places. All 
except for the kid in the clock. The wicked wolf's appetite did not pass until
he had found them and swallowed each in a single gulp.
   The only one to escape was the little black kid, for the wolf never 
imagined that there was room for a kid inside the very narrow grandfather 
clock. In the meantime, Mother Goat had really come back from market.  When, 
from a distance, she noticed that the door was ajar, she rushed home, her 
heart in her mouth. She had a sinking feeling: what she feared had really 
happened. The wicked wolf had gobbled up all her children. She dropped into a 
chair, sobbing bitterly, but as she cried, the door of the grandfather clock 
swung open and out ran the black kid.
   "Mummy! Mummy!" wept the kid. "It was terrible! The wolf came, and I think 
he's eaten all my brothers!"
   "My poor child!" sobbed Mother Goat. "You're the only one left! That evil 
brute has gobbled them all!"
   Not long after, Mother Goat and her son left the house to take a stroll in 
the garden. Suddenly, she heard a low wheezing sound: someone was snoring 
heavily. It was the greedy wolf. His feast of kids had been too much for him 
and he was fast asleep, dead to the world. In a flash, Mother Goat had a 
brainwave. She said to her son: "Run and fetch me a needle and thread and a 
pair of scissors!" With these, she swiftly slit open the wolf's stomach. As 
she had hoped, the ravenous brute had swallowed every kid whole. There they 
were all stlll alive alive inside his tummy. One by one, out they popped from
the wolf's tummy.
   "Hurry! Hurry! Not a sound! We must get away before he wakens up! Wait!
Fetch me a heap of stones!" And so they filled the wolf's stomach with stones
and stitched it up again. The wolf woke later with a raging thirst.
   "What a heavy tummy I have!" he said. "I've eaten too much! All these 
kids!" But when he went down the river to drink, his tummy full of stones 
tipped him over and he fell into the water. The weight took him straight to 
the bottom, and the goat and her kids shrieked with joy as he sank. The 
wicked wolf was dead and the kids trotted home happily with Mother.
