GHOST TOWN
----------

Okay, pardner, it's time for a little trip to a gen-u-ine ghost town! But
don't worry, them's *friendly* ghosts. So, mount up and let's get going! The
Jail and the Barbershop. Start things off by going into the Barbershop, where
you'll find a Stetson hat. Shake the hat and drop it. Get the key that fell
out, then leave (you don't need the hat for anything). Drop the key in the
street.

Go West along the street and you will come to the Saloon and the Dry-Goods
Store. First go to the Saloon and get the bell, then go to the Dry-goods Store
and pick up the matches, and shovel. Back in the street, go West once again,
which brings you to the Telegraph Office and the Hotel.

Go into the Hotel, then East into the empty room. Drop the bell and return to
the street. Now enter the Telegraph Office, and move the safe. Connect the two
loose wires so that the telegraph key now works. You'll be needing it later.
Leave the Telegraph office, then go West until you come to the fork in the
road.

From the fork go South to the edge of the ravine. Burn the sagebrush, then
enter the ravine. Here you will find charcoal (from the burnt brush) and the
entrance to a mine. Go into the mine. Although it's dark and you can't see it,
there is a silver bullet here. Get the bullet, then go down. You can move in
the dark safely so long as you always move in the right direction.

Now get the candle and light it. Ah, you can see again! Go South, and dig
roof. You have found your second treasure, a gold nugget. Get that, and go
back North and Up out of the mine. Remember to pick up the charcoal before
leaving the ravine!

Now go to the fork in the road, and drop off the shovel and the charcoal.
From there, go East back into town until you come to the stable. Enter the
stable, and then the stall. Get the horseshoe, then make your way back out to
the street.

Now head along East to the Dry-Goods store. Drop the candle outside, treasures
inside, then go out and East again to the Jail. Pick up the key, then use
horseshoe. It's magnetic and will open the door to the Jail. Enter the jail,
and unlock the inner door with the key. Drop the key, and go through the door
into the cell. Pick up the hammer, then leave the Jail, making sure you also
take the derringer with you. Drop the derringer in the street.

It's time to play blacksmith, so go all the way West to the stable, and then
enter the stall. This time, mount the horse, and you will into the manure pile
outside the stall. Get up (phew!) out of the manure pile, and re-enter the
stall. There will now be a hole in the wall leading to a store room. Go
through the hole and get the keg of nail3s. Back in the stall, empty the keg
and drop it. Now get the nails, and shoe the horse. Drop the hammer and mount
the horse.

Say giddyap (the magic word!), and the horse will take off. Eventually, you
will be thrown, and that's the last you'll ever see of Old Paint. Brush
yourself off, and enter the teepee in the hidden canyon. Pick up the two
treasures there, then go back outside.

There doesn't seem to be any way out, but have no fear! Beat the tom-tom, and
the ghost of Geronimo will appear. Say How, and ZAP! guess where you are?
Right, you're back in the manure pile again (hehehe). Get out of that, then
head along to the Dry-Goods store and drop off the treasures (don't forget to
drop the spurs, too!).

Somewhere along the line here you may have heard mysterious ghostly sounds and
or voices. The sound of the bell indicates that a ghostly piano player is now
visible in the Saloon, and the voice gives you a clue as to what to do about
him. If you are near the Saloon when you hear the bell, go inside, and applaud
the ghost.

He (it?) will stand up, take a S bow, and vanish. The piano, however, will
remain behind, as a solid object. If you open the piano, a map will fall out.
This map tells you to "dig roof", but since you've already done that, you
don't need the map, so you can just leave it there.

Once you've dropped off the Indian treasures and (possibly) applauded the
ghost, return West to the fork in the road. Get the shovel and charcoal, then
go North to the field. Dig here, and you will find some yellow powder (it's
sulphur). Get the powder, then go to the manure pile in the stall.

Holding your nose, dig around in the manure, and you will uncover some white
crystals. Get those, then head into the stall. Mix the stuff you're carrying
around, and you will make some gunpowder. Fill the keg with that, then get the
keg and go to the Telegraph Office.

Drop the keg in the office. Under no circumstances should you touch the
telegraph key, or BOOOOM! (time to restore the game!). By this time, it's
probably getting dark outside. Don't worry, you'll be able to make it to the 
hotel before sunset. 

Just leave the Telegraph Office, enter the Hotel, and go East to the room
where you dropped the bell. Ring the bell, and, like magic, a bed appears!
Drop the bell, get into bed, and have a good night's sleep.

When morning arrives, get up, then move the bed, revealing a roll of tape. Get
the tape and leave the room. On your way out, go to the counter and get the
cashbox. Now return to the Saloon, tape the mirror, and break it, thus
revealing a hidden office. Drop the tape, go through the hole into the office,
and get the Go board.

Now it's time for another trip to the Dry-Goods Store. Drop off the cashbox
and the Go board. Now, pass Go, and collect $200 (tricky, huh?). After that,
leave the store and head West to the fork, then South to the ravine. This
time, jump across the ravine.

You are now in the mountains. Go West along the trail to the line shack. Enter
the shack, and tap the telegraph key. Boom! The gunpowder in the keg just went
off! Now, look at the floor and you'll notice a loose plank. Get the plank,
drop it, then go down the hole into the root cellar. Collect the pelts, then
go back up and make your way across the ravine and into town. As you pass
where the Telegraph Office used to be, you'll see a smoking open safe. Look
inside, and pick up the gold dust.

Continue East and pick up the derringer, then keep going East until you come
to Boot Hill. Shoot the rattlesnake with the derringer (it's a water pistol!),
then dig a grave and (gulp!) go into it. Here you find a coin and a purple
worm. If you want to indulge in some gratuitous violence, you can kill the
worm. In any case, drop the shovel and get the coin.

Now climb back out, and make another trip to the Dry-Goods store. Drop all the
treasures, then go back out into the street. Get the candle, then wait for
sunset. Once it's dark, go into the Saloon. A ghostly square dance is in
progress (that's what the fiddle strings are all about). Still in the dark, do
a little dancing, and you will win a prize.

Now you can light the candle. The dancers will vanish, and you can now make
your final trip to the Dry-Goods store. Drop the cup you just won, and say
"Score". All right! You did it, you collected all thirteen ghost treasures!
After all that, why not take a vacation? I know this little deserted island
that would be just perfect...

