MYSTERY FUNHOUSE
----------------

Time for a little spy stuff! A Fun House may seem a strange place for
espionage shenanigans, but secret agents have a habit of popping up in the
darndest places! if you just had some money, you could get inside. The first 
thing to do is drop the watch, because you won't be needing it. Now go East 
to the parking lot. Ignore the five dollar bill (it's a bill for $5!), and
look at the tree.

Get the branch, then look in the grate. Aha, that's where the real money is!
Chew the gum (tastes HORRIBLE!) then stick it on the branch. Use the branch to
get the coin, then drop both the branch and the gum. Return to the Fun House
entrance.

Wear the shoes, then give the dollar for a ticket. Go Fun. You are standing in
the Magical Mirror Room, and just up ahead is (gasp!) a maze. Fortunately,
it's not a bad one, if you're careful (if you aren't careful, well...).

Go North three times, then West twice. This brings you to a small room. Go
West from here to the room with the knobs. Pull the green knob, and you will
find yourself in another room. Get the trampoline that's here, then go South
to the shooting gallery and pick up the strange spectacles. You have a few
minutes, so, if you want to, you can amuse yourself by shooting a few clay
pigeons. When you're finished, go back North, then Up, to the knob room.

Now, as you proceed through the adventure, you will from time to time get
messages about your shoe heel being loose. Ignore them, and don't touch the
heel for now. There will be time for that later. At the moment, you have other
things to do. So, head along West to the tank room, and from there, Up to the
ledge over the pit. Drop the trampoline here, then go East to the barrel room.

Once in the barrel room, get the match and the comb, then crawl (that's how
you get out of the barrel). Drop the match by the trampoline, then head South
to the rickety stairs and down to the landing. Go down the slide into the
tank. Get the rusty key, then give the comb to the mermaid. Go up the secret
stairs she reveals, and you will be back on the landing.

Go East into the Windy Hall, and East again into (sigh) the maze. Now,
carefully make your way South, East, South, East, and you will be in the
Mirror Room again. Wear the spectacles, and look in the mirror. Sonuvagun!
There's a hidden door! Open the door and go inside. Here you find a valve
handle. Drop the spectacles and get the handle, then go East back to the
mirror room.

Once again, go through the maze to the room with the knobs. Drop the key, then
continue on West and then up until you come to the ledge. Get the trampoline,
then go down the ladder to the pit. Drop the trampoline, then put handle and
turn handle. You have now turned off the calliope in the merry-go-round room
(which is where you're going next). Now go trampoline, and jump. Wheeee!
You're back up on the ledge.

Get the match, and return to the knob room. Drop the match, get the key, and
pull the blue knob. Now you're in the room with the Fortune-telling machine.
However, it won't be telling your fortune today, because it's broken. However,
in an odd sort of way, it's going to be very helpful to you. But right now, go
on along East to the merry-go-round room.

Once in the merry-go-round room, push the blue button to stop the ride. Go
merry, then go horse. Climb the pole in the horse's back, which brings you to
the top of the ride. Look up, and you will see a rope. Jump! Now look, and you
will see you are on a catwalk. Go East, and unlock the door. Drop the key, and
look at the shelves. Grab the flashlight and the wrench, then head back West,
and climb all the way back down again, then return to the knob room. As you
pass the fortune-telling machine, pick up the "out of order" sign.

Pull the green knob, then go South to the shooting gallery. Drop the sign
there, then return to the knob room. Get the match, then pull the yellow knob.
This takes you to a small room with strange music. Go North into the maze
(again!), then go East, South, East, South, East, and you're in the Mirror
Room. From there, go South out of the Fun House.

Now it's back to the parking lot. Open the grate. You will only be able to
open one bolt, but you can slide the grate to make room for yourself to go
down. Drop the wrench and get the gum. Turn on the flashlight, then go down
the manhole, and East to the room with the second grate.

Close the door, and drop the ticket. Now, the big moment has arrived! Remove
the heel from your shoe. A couple of things will fall out. One is a note
expaining what this is all about, the other is a fuse. Drop the heel and the
note, and get the fuse.

Chew the (yuck!) gum again, then stick it to the fuse, then stick it to the
grate. Light the fuse, and POP! the grate blows open. Get the ticket, then go
through the hole. Now up through the shooting gallery (good thing you put that
sign there!) and South to the hidden lab. There they are... the secret plans!
Grab them and... congrats! You have successfully completed your assignment!
After all this, you could use some peace and quiet. How about a trip to some
faraway place, like Egypt? In fact, you might even want to visit the
pyramids...
