if i left any of the more frequently asked question out let me know and
i will include them as well.. i think i have covered about 90% of the 
questions being asked in the renegade base with this file.. i will post 
this once every 2 weeks at the least.. maybe once a week for a while.. 


                   Renegade Frequently Asked Question List
                     Created by - Paul Reed (85:823/600)
                               Created 09/04/92
                            Last Revised 06/10/93

Q. Is it true that Cott is developing a NEW BBS package from Scratch?

A. Yes.. he is currently programming Renegades replacement...

Q. But, Is he still going to support Renegade, and release new 
   Versions?

A. Yes.. he *IS* still working on Renegade, and has stated that he will 
   continue to release new versions of Renegade at least until the new
   software is ready for distribution..

Q. What will the New Software be called?

A. Absolutely NO idea.. Cott has not stated what it will be called..

Q. How much will it Cost to register the new package?

A. Again, Absolutely no idea.. that has not been stated either..

Q. My Protocols, Archivers, and some of my Door games are not
   working properly.. what happened?

A. With the release of RG 04-01 Beta comes a change in the MCI codes
   for Doors, Archivers and Protocols. They have been made more 
   consistent. In other words % N passes the node number in all three
   areas.. where as before @ E was used in the door games to pass node 
   number. As yet i have not seen anything to convert the MCI codes to
   the new ones. ( i did mine by hand ) but it didn;t take long..
   the thing that took the longest was the archivers.. protocols are
   easy if you are using Cott's protocol.dat since i just grabbed the
   one out of the installation package for 04-01 Beta and used it..

Q. What is the Latest version of Renegade Available?

A. The latest version of Renegade released to the public is 
   Renegade 04-16Beta.                                                       

Q. How come in the newest versions of Renegade all my Menu prompts have
   these HEART shaped ASCII characters within them.. 

A. as of version 2-27 Beta's release the Ascii-3 (or Heart) coloring
   system has been COMPLETELY removed.. you should obtain the file
   CLRFIX.ZIP or ARJ whatever the case may be. and follow the directions
   included.. for those of you who have an aversion to reading DOCS
   i will include the steps to take to run it successfuly on your system
   place clrfix.exe into your main BBS directory. the DATE on Clrfix.exe
   should be 2-1-93 at 00:26am or it is too old of a version and will
   not convert all the DATA files that need to be converted.. do NOT
   run clrfix on the data files by passing *.dat to clrfix.. you WILL
   destroy your data files if you do this.. 

   at the dos prompt type CLRFIX and press Enter which is NOT the long
   key at the bottom of the keyboard <GRIN!!> couldn't resist Cott.
   you will see it process several different .DAT files.. then when it
   is done  type CLRFIX MENU\*.MNU to convert your menus.. then use
   CLRFIX MISC\*.ASC to convert your ascii text files.. 

Q. Why does the built in .QWK door give all of my bases a base number of
   0 and then put all the messages into all the bases in the reader?
  
A. With the release of version 2-27 Beta the message bases now have a 
   permanent Index Number used for .QWK packets.. you should run the 
   program PERMINDX.EXE contained in the distribution archives for 
   RG 2-27Beta and Later.. RUN THIS ONLY ONCE.. when you run it it 
   will ask you for the path to MBASES.DAT which is located in your
   DATA directory..

Q. How come in the .QWK downloads i always get 0 Messages in EVERY
   Base?

A. You need to go configure your Max Messages in the .QWK configuration

Q. What the hell happened to all the Header colors?? its all grey on
   black!!!

A. With the release of RG 2-27 Beta a New color configuration System was 
   implemented.. you should go into the color configuration setup (K) 
   from the System Configuration menu and configure a default color
   system..

Q. Why won't Renegade respond to my modem, or why wont it even load up?
   
A. All versions of renegade require a fossil driver to operate at ALL
   Renegade WILL however load up without a fossil driver installed if
   the -L option is used on the commandline.. the 2 most popular FOSSIL
   drivers out are BNU and X00.. most boards should have these available
   it is beyond the scope of this manual to explain how to set up a 
   FOSSIL driver.

Q. Where are the DOCS!?!?!?!?

A. Currently Theo Van Dinter has released a doc file for Renegade.. 
   However.. these Docs have not been Sanctioned by Cott Lang at least 
   that i am aware of anyways..but should serve to get you through until
   a release approved by Cott Lang.                                        

Q. Why are there so many bugs.. stuff never seems to work right!!

A. Renegade is still in Beta form.. this means that it is NOT a standard 
   release.. at this point in time everyone that sets up a renegade BBS
   is in effect a Beta tester.. or bug hunter if you will.. as such BETA
   releases have bugs.. it is one of the drawbacks of getting new versions
   at least once a month.. 

Q. How do i become a BETA site?

A. if you are running the software technically you already are.. currently
   though there is NO official Beta site structure.. although Cott Lang
   has stated that once a standard release is made he may go to a Beta
   testing structure.. at this point in time it does not even pay to ask
   as the answer will always be NO.
                                                                  
Q. How the HELL do i make the PCR system work... its really confusing..
 
A. first you have to go into System config and set up the PCR system
   as to what security levels are going to have one and how many 
   messages each user has to post to meet the PCR.

   Next any command that you want to be restricted based on the PCR you 
   would insert a ZZ somewhere in the ACS field for that command.. 

   conversely you can set up a linked command (see the docs on how to do 
   that) with an acs of !ZZ to display a file or message to the user 
   saying their PCR is out of balance... its really quite simple but it 
   really is one of the most confusing things to set up it seems...

Q. When will the Standard Release of Renegade be made?

A. There never will be a Standard Release of Renegade.. Renegade will   
   always be Beta software and will eventually be phased out by the 
   new software Cott is working on...

Q. How much does Renegade cost to Register it?

A. There never will be a cost to register Renegade....              

Q. How do i set up HSLINK/BI-MODEM/HYDRA with Renegade?

A. At this point in time Renegade has built in bi-directional protocol 
   support.. but only HS-LINK is supported at this time.. Bi-Modem is
   NOT recommnded as there are some potential security risks to someone
   holding a registered copy.. HSLINK can best be configured by grabbing
   PROTOCOL.ZIP off of Cott Lang's or any other Renegade Support board
   that has it.. this is a copy of Cott Langs own protocol.dat file 
   with most of the popular protocols installed including HSLINK.. 
   Cott has suggested that the best way to configure HSLINK itself is
   NOT to configure it.. just straight out of the BOX should work
   for most people... And the same should Apply to Hydra.. Hydra and
   HSLINK are both set up in the protocol.dat Cott Releases on a 
   regular basis...

Q. How do i set up Renegade multi-node??

A. this probably has to be the MOST asked question in renegade's history.
   and in actuality it is probably one of the easiest things to set up.
   Basically if you have desqview, windows, OS/2 or any other program
   that allows 2 programs to be run simultaneously you can run MULTI-NODE
   this document will explain how to setup one dial up node and one
   local only node... from there you should be able to set up as many
   nodes as you wish..

   the first thing to make sure of is that you have Multi-Node support
   turned on inside Renegade itself... this can be found in System
   Configuration A option L.. 

   Next load up node 1 (the dial up node) as Renegade -N1 (the -N1 means
   node 1) and proceed to set up your modem configuration for that node.
   next quit out of renegade and load up node 2 like this:
   Renegade -N2 -L  (the N2 means Load node 2 and the -L means it is a
   local node.) go into the modem configuration for this node and set the
   comport to 0.. the only thing left for you to do now is to set up
   your multi-tasker to load each node.. it is beyond the scope of this
   manual to explain how to do this.. i have used renegade with windows 
   and found the performance much better then under Desqview but i had
   Problems with Windows trying to take control of my comm ports..
   i run a 2 dial up line and 1 local node system under DV 2.42 and
   QEMM 6.03 in a future release of this document I will include my
   my desqview setups.. if anyone can provide a text file on how to set up 
   Renegade properly with Windows 3.0, 3.1 or OS/2 please feel free to netmail 
   them to me (ROUTED ONLY) so i can include them as well.

Here are the settings i use for Renegade with Desview running a 3 node
system with front door on node 1.. i am only going to post the frodo
node 1 and renegade node 2 entries.. as the node 3 is completely identical
to the node 2 settings i will also post the batch files i use for both..

If you are using DESQview.. TURN MANAGE PRINTER CONTENTION OFF or you 
will not be able to load more than one node....

                               Change a Program

 Program Name............: Renegade Node 1

 Keys to Use on Open Menu: R1                         Memory Size (in K): 200
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
 Program...: runfd.bat

 Parameters:

 Directory.: c:\fd
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
 Options:
                  Writes text directly to screen.......: [Y]
                  Displays graphics information........: [N]
                  Virtualize text/graphics (Y,N,T).....: [Y]
                  Uses serial ports (Y,N,1,2)..........: [N]
                  Requires floppy diskette.............: [N]


                      Change a Program Advanced Options

 System Memory (in K).......:   0   Maximum Program Memory Size (in K)..: 600

 Script Buffer Size.......:  1000   Maximum Expanded Memory Size (in K): 1000

 Text Pages: 1  Graphics Pages: 0   Initial Mode:        Interrupts: 00 to FF
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
 Window Position:
    Maximum Height:  25       Starting Height:           Starting Row...:
    Maximum Width.:  80       Starting Width.:           Starting Column:
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
                                Shared Program
 Pathname..:
 Data......:
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
 Close on exit (Y,N,blank)......: [N]  Uses its own colors..............: [Y]
 Allow Close Window command.....: [Y]  Runs in background (Y,N,blank)...: [Y]
 Uses math coprocessor..........: [N]  Keyboard conflict (0-F)..........: [0]
 Share CPU when foreground......: [Y]  Share EGA when foreground/zoomed.: [Y]
 Can be swapped out (Y,N,blank).: [N]  Protection level (0-3)...........: [0]



                               Change a Program

 Program Name............: Renegade Node 2

 Keys to Use on Open Menu: R2                         Memory Size (in K): 200
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
 Program...: node2.bat

 Parameters:

 Directory.: c:\renegade
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
 Options:
                  Writes text directly to screen.......: [Y]
                  Displays graphics information........: [N]
                  Virtualize text/graphics (Y,N,T).....: [Y]
                  Uses serial ports (Y,N,1,2)..........: [N]
                  Requires floppy diskette.............: [N]


                      Change a Program Advanced Options

 System Memory (in K).......:   0   Maximum Program Memory Size (in K)..: 600

 Script Buffer Size.......:  1000   Maximum Expanded Memory Size (in K): 1000

 Text Pages: 1  Graphics Pages: 0   Initial Mode:        Interrupts: 00 to FF
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
 Window Position:
    Maximum Height:  25       Starting Height:           Starting Row...:
    Maximum Width.:  80       Starting Width.:           Starting Column:
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
                                Shared Program
 Pathname..:
 Data......:
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
 Close on exit (Y,N,blank)......: [N]  Uses its own colors..............: [Y]
 Allow Close Window command.....: [Y]  Runs in background (Y,N,blank)...: [Y]
 Uses math coprocessor..........: [N]  Keyboard conflict (0-F)..........: [0]
 Share CPU when foreground......: [Y]  Share EGA when foreground/zoomed.: [Y]
 Can be swapped out (Y,N,blank).: [N]  Protection level (0-3)...........: [0]

Here is a Windows 3.1 setup that is working for 1 RG sysop

These are the PIFs I use for one dialup node and one local node for
The Time Warp.

                   PIF for Node 1

Program Filename:    RUN.BAT
Window Title:        FrontDoor
Optional Parameters: 
Startup Directory:   Directory where FroDo's BAT is located.
Video Memory:        X Text    _ Low Graphics  _ High Graphics
Memory Requirements: KB Required:128     KB Desired:640
EMS Memory:          KB Required:1024    KB Desired:1024
XMS Memory:          KB Required:0       KB Desired:0
Display Usage:       X Full Screen       Execution: X Background
                     _ Windowed                     _ Exclusive

X Close Window on Exit

              Advanced Options

Multitasking Options
Background Priority:200                  Foreground:200
       Leave Detect Idle Time set to off

Memory Options
   X EMS Memory Locked                   _ XMS Memory Locked
   X Uses High Memory Area               X Lock Application Memory

                   PIF For Node 2

Program Filename:    Renegade.exe
Window Title:        Renegade Node 2
Optional Parameters: -n2 -l
Start-up Directory:  Directory Where Renegade is located
Video Memory:        KB Required 340         KB Desired 640
EMS Memory:          KB Required 1024        KB Desired 1024
XMS Memory:          KB Required 0           KB Desired 0
Display Usage:       X Full Screen           Execution:   X Background
                     _ Windowed                           _ Exclusive

   X Close Window On Exit

                   Advanced Options

Multitasking Options
Background Priority: 75                Foreground Priority: 75
              Leave Detect Idle Time set to off

Memory Options
   _ EMS Memory Locked                 _ XMS Memory Locked
   X Uses High Memory Area             _ Lock Application Memory

These are the PIF settings I use for Windows 3.1 for my bbs and 
they seem to be working for me.  Hope this has been of some help.


                   Time Traveler


Modem Init Strings:  

   This is the section where i will be posting all of the init strings
i can find for various modems.. obviously i can't prove they work but 
i get them from people who are using them and have them working..

Supra 14400 Fax Modem:

   Try this init string :  AT&F2Q0V0M0&C1&D2X4S95=1|

   And check Renegade's Result codes against the modem manual's listing.

Hayes ULTRA Smartmodem:

Init-1         AT&F&C1&D2W2E0Q0V1S7=55S11=50S38=0S95=2
Init-2         ATM1&G2S49=2S50=128S97=20S0=0&Y0X4Y0H0

lock    everything at 19.2 and I use hardware flow control...hope that 
helps

this is obviously a Front Door init string but you would change the V1
to a V0 for renegade.. best thing to do would be to go into a term 
program and enter this whole string in as one AT command and then save
it to the modems Nram and use ATZ as your Init string..


Generic Hayes compatible 2400 Baud modems.

this Init string should work for almost ANY Generic 2400 baud modem that
supports the Hayes command set:


ATH0V0Q0E0M0X4S0=0S10=60S2=1&C1&D2

Well thats about it for this edition, if anyone has nything they would like
to see added to this list please netmail me at my ITCnet address 85:823/203
or my Fishnet address at 21:70/302.. i do not have a fight-o-net number
at this time.. maybe soon though..  You will have to rote the netmail 
through my hub as my number is currently unlisted..

Thanks go to Cott Lang for providing this GREAT bbs software to us and
for his continued and OUTSTANDING support of his program.. may Renegade
continue to be developed and improved.. as i am sure that within a very
short time it shall be considered one of if not THE best BBS software
around.. i already think that it is the best and hope to keep using it
well into the future!!

                                                -Paul Reed
