
The following is a FAQ on all the information posted so far on the Internet, our wonderfull *infobahn*, about the upcoming new Star Trek movie.  It was posted by Otto Heuer (see copyright at end of FAQ), and I am downloading it to C$erve simply because I am trying to be a nice guy    ;-).  Otherwise, I take no responsibility as to the authenticity of this FAQ.  Hope everyone enjoys!

Mitchell Schneider
Compuserve # 72640,1472
mitsc@phantom.com

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Newsgroups: rec.arts.startrek.current
From: ottoh3@cfsmo.honeywell.com (Otto Heuer #3)
Subject: FAQL: UPCOMING STAR TREK MOVIES
Date: Fri, 29 Apr 1994 19:01:54 +0000
Message-ID: <9404300602.aa16624@dispatch.demon.co.uk>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Lines: 684

Archive-Name: faql.rec.arts.startrek.movies

  INFORMATION ON UPCOMING STAR TREK MOVIES (last updated 14 April 1994)

This posting is intended to cut down on questions that seem to pop up daily
asking what is known about the new Star Trek movies.  It is one of a number
of periodic postings posted to r.a.s.*.  For a full list of informational
postings, please read the "LIST OF PERIODIC POSTINGS" article in
rec.arts.startrek.misc.  For a list of acronyms used in this (and other)
postings, please refer to the "ACRONYM LIST" which can be found in
rec.arts.startrek.misc.

===========================================================================

			This entire article contains

			***** S P O I L E R S *****

for upcoming movies.  If you don't want to be spoiled, don't read this!

CURRENT INFO:

TITLE:         Star Trek: Generations
WRITERS:       Ron Moore and Brannon Braga (from a Moore/Braga/Berman story)
DIRECTOR:      David Carson (he did the DS9 pilot, "Yesterday's Enterprise",
               and episodes of Doogie Howser and LA Law)
PRODUCER:      Rick Berman
LINE PRODUCER: Bernie Williams
EXEC PRODUCER: Bernie Williams
CO-PRODUCER:   Peter Lauritson
COMPOSER:      Dennis McCarthy
SETS:          Herman Zimmerman
COSTUMES:      Bob Blackman
CAST:          William Shatner (Kirk), Whoopi Goldberg (Guinan), Malcolm 
               McDowell (Soren), and the TNG cast are signed (assuming not
               Wheaton, Muldaur, or Crosby); Doohan and Koenig are in a
               10-minute intro/cameo.
FILMING:       through end of June 1994
RELEASE:       late-November/December 1994
BUDGET:        $25,000,000
 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
17 July 1992 convention:  Shatner said he had submitted a script idea (not
an actual script) for ST7 to Brandon Tartikoff (sp).  After two months of
silence from Tartikoff he received a reply saying that another script idea
was being considered before Shatner's.  Then they would take a look at
Shatner's idea.  Shatner had said that Tartikoff had been very
non-committal each time he had asked about it.  But he did give the
impression that both he and Nimoy are interested.

Eric Stillwell has also mentioned a lot of talk around Paramount regarding
a seventh TOS movie.  Shatner has submitted a script idea (with Kirk having
a young love interest) and they are re-considering Harve Bennet's "Academy
Days" script with random actors portraying the crew at SFA.

The 7 February 1993 copy of the Los Angeles Times (Sunday Calendar
section, p. 24), reported that Paramount has given Rick Berman the green
light for not one, but TWO TNG movies.  A preliminary release date for the
first movie is late 1994.

Reports on GEnie say that Ron Moore and Brannon Braga will be co-writing
the first two TNG movies.  Hints dropped at a con in LA from Piller, Berman
and others are that the first may very well contain TOS crewmembers along
with some time travel elements.  Guinan's past may play an element in the
story.

4 April 1993 Pasadena convention:  Rick Berman reported that he would be
producing the next two Star Trek movies, and that they would feature the
TNG cast.  Berman says he has also talked to Shatner, Nimoy and Kelley and
if everything goes right the TOS cast will be in the next movie as well.
There are 2 movie scripts under development.  The first will be written by
TNG staff writers Ronald Moore and Brannon Braga.  The second script will
be written by former TNG writer Maurice Hurley.  Berman said one script
includes the TOS cast, but the other one could easily be modified to
include them as well.  The first movie will go into production in April
1994 for a Christmas 1994 release.

30 April 1993:  The British national newspaper, the "Daily Mail", reported
that Shatner and Stewart were asked to star in the same Star Trek big
screen picture.  British-born Stewart had no problem appearing in Star Trek
Seven:  The Next Generation and assumed he would receive star billing
because Shatner's role was not a substantial one.  That was light years
away from what Shatner had in mind.  Shatner, 62, told Paramount Films he
would not be a 'simple guest star' and his name would not appear below
Stewart's in the film's credits.  Also he wanted to be paid at least six
million dollars upfront, some five and a half million more than Stewart
would get.  'Shatner was not going to play second fiddle to Stewart whom he
felt was not a big name in the movie world', an executive told Bas
Bamingboye of the Daily Mail. 'He has made many millions from his share of
the profits and from the six Star Trek movies and Hollywood is all about
perception.  Shatner didn't like the idea that he was being perceived as
some second string bit-actor.' Stewart didn't have much room to manoeuvre
because he had to sign a contract to do a seventh series of Star Trek TV if
he wanted to be in the film, and of course, he wanted to.  While the studio
was livid with Shatner's egotistical behaviour, they have had to bow to
pressure because Star Trek fans are going to flock to any picture featuring
both Enterprise captains.  Although there will be equal billing, it will
work in Shatner's favour because alphabetically, he comes before Stewart.
In the movie's script Captain Kirk's cryogenically frozen body is stolen.
He is revived and forced to fight against Captain Picard.

Mid-May 1993:  Reports from the TNG production crew on GEnie are saying
that ST7 will have the two crews, but they will NOT meet.  The TOS crew
will be working on some problem, which will remain a problem in the Star
Trek universe until the TNG crew solve it (the TOS-fix was only a temporary
fix, it turns out).  There are two scripts being worked on:  this one with
Ron Moore and Braga, and another one with Moore and Piller (which may
involve Romulans and the Borg).  The writers felt that this was the best
way to mix the crew without messing up continuity (if the two crews met in
a time travel deal, why didn't Scotty and Spock remember it when the guest
starred on TNG?)  or streching credibility too far.

Late-May 1993:  Someone who did not reveal his source said he heard that
the movie would be following up on the season seven finale.  Filming would
begin in April 1994 and it would be ready for a December 1994 release.  The
same source reported that the TOS cast might be in the *second* TNG movie
(whichever members are still alive by then).  Since no source is sited,
take this with a grain of salt.

4 June 1993:  Marina Sirtis reported at the Chicago Consumer Electronics
Show that the cast will start filming the TNG movie in the spring of 1994
for a Christmas release.  So far, only Brent Spiner and Patrick Stewart are
signed to appear in the TNG movie.  The movie WILL NOT be called "Star Trek
VII".  It will be called "ST:TNG the Motion Picture" or something of that
nature.

11 July 1993 San Jose convention:  LeVar Burton said that ST7 would have
the TOS cast for the first 18 minutes, then the remainder would be all the
TNG cast.

24 July 1993 TV Guide reports that both of the movies will include the TOS
cast.

Early August 1993 Cinefantastique Annual Star Trek Issue reports that two
scripts were assigned for the firt TNG movie, one to be written by Ron
Moore and Brannon Braga, and the other by Maurice Hurley.  (Note:  Michael
Piller was offered the assignment, but disliked the fact that his script
would be in competition with another, so he turned it down.)  The Moore and
Braga script "brings back the entire original Enterprise crew when the
Enterprise 1701-D crew is thrust back in time."  Hurley's script "involves
the appearance of Captain Kirk in the future as the sole representative of
the original cast" and is rumored to be a story about Guinan and the Borg
(possibly how they wiped out her people).  Berman notes that this will
*not* be a "Star Trek/Star Trek:TNG" movie, it's going to be ST:TNG movie.
The original crew will only bolster the TNG cast.  Berman also stated that
the movie will be an "epic," going far beyond the scope of what they can do
on the small screen.  Nimoy *may* direct.  Paramount is said to have booked
2400 screens for Christmas week.  (There's lots more background info on the
creation of the movie in the article.)

14 August 1993 Phoenix convention:  Armin Shimerman reports that there were
4, not 2, movies planned, and that Frakes wants to direct one.  He'll
probably get the 2nd one, is the current thinking.

Mid-August 1993 reports from GEnie say that William Shatner and Leonard
Nimoy are not going to be considered for the first TNG movie because they
wanted too much money.

September 1993:  McFadden reported at StarCon that Stewart was the only one
currently under contract for the upcoming TNG film.

Mid-September 1993 reports from CompuServe say that William Shatner and
Leonard Nimoy are not going to be considered for the first TNG movie
because they wanted too much money.  It appears that they are going with
the script done by Ron Moore and Brannon Braga.  (It seems that Maurice
Hurley didn't get his in on time.)  If I recall correctly from
Cinefantastique, this is the script where the Enterprise-D crew goes back
in time and encounters the Enterprise-A crew.

4 October 1993:  "Variety" (page 7):  "There's also been talk of getting
Leonard Nimoy to direct, though sources close to him say his schedule will
preclude his doing anything more involved than a small acting role with the
Vulcan ears.  The studio's been trying hard not to snub the "Next
Generation" crew or creatives, and might even do the movie through the TV
division, in hopes of keeping the budget under $30 million."

Early October 1993 TV Guide:  The TNG movie with Kirk travelling through
time has been dropped.  The main script being considered has the Big E
traveling backwards in time and meeting some of the original cast.

16 October 1993 San Francisco Creation Con:  James Doohan said that they
were considering two scripts, one with Shatner and Nimoy and one without.
The deal seemed to be that Shatner and Nimoy wanted a lot of money.  He did
say that "all the rest of us will be there" (or something like that).  I
assume he meant all of the rest of the TOS cast.  He did not mention
anything about TNG cast.

18 October 1993 CNN Headline News:  There was a report that Star Trek 7
will begin shooting in April 1994 with the original cast.  It is expected
to be out around Thanksgiving (USA) 1994.

19 October 1993 Chicago Sun-Times:  Michael Sneed's "gossip column" says
that ST7 will "reportedly star the old originals-- William Shatner and Co.
-- not the significantly younger upstarts of the new 'Star Trek' TV shows.
So there!"

22-23 October 1993 Valley Forge PA Creation Con:  Brannon Braga and Ron
Moore said their script was the more likely at this moment.  They said it
was going to be a TNG movie.  Gates McFadden said that Stewart is the only
one who has signed on to do the movie so far.  DeForest Kelley said that
only Nimoy and Shatner were approached about the movie.

Late-October 1993:  The movie industry trade paper "The Hollywood Reporter"
has now listed the next Trek movie in the "upcoming film production"
section:  "Star Trek:  The Next Generation (Start April); Paramount
Pictures.  5555 Melrose Ave., Los Angeles CA 90038 - 213-956-5000; Prd.,
Rick Berman; Scr., Brannon Braga, Ron Moore; Dstrb, Paramount Pictures"

29-31 October 1993 Honolulu Creation Con:  There is definitely going to be
a seventh movie, but it is not going to be ST7, it is going to be ST:TNG I.
It will feature the TNG cast and as many of the original cast as they can
sign and will be a 'passing of the torch' kind of thing.  After that,
future movies will feature just the TNG cast.

Early November Variety "Future Films" section:  "UNTITLED STAR TREK NEXT
GENERATION FEATURE is how the new movie, to be released Christmas of 94, is
being referred to in its listing on the Future Films page of the new
Variety.  Executive producer, Rick Berman.  Screenplay, Ron Moore and
Brannon Braga.  This was the first appearance of the listing.  No director,
line producer, cameraman, ad, or cast members were listed, althoug they
will be added when contracts are signed.  Leonard Nimoy, favored by the
rumor mill to direct, said he wasn't approached by Paramount and stopped
waiting for them to call:  he took another directing project although he
said he certainly plans to appear in the TNG movie as Spock, "if there are
interesting things for him to do."  Since it seems very unwise to go with a
freshman director at this point, the chances are Nick Meyer will be asked
or one of the veteran TNG directors--perhaps even Rob Bowman or David
Carson--would be tapped.  In other news, Berman noted that the final two
hour episode of TNGwould set up the premise of STAR TREK:  VOYAGER, set to
debut with a two hour telefilm of its own in January of 95...  meaning, by
implication, that the series will wrap before January of 95...  suggesting
that this season will indeed be the last for TNG." (thanks Scott!)

20 November 1993 Omaha, Nebraska convention:  Richard Arnold reports that
Ronald Moore and Brandon Braga are the script writers and David Carson is
the director.  There are actually two primary scripts still under
consideration.  Both are action-adventure themed.  The major difference
that he would state was the one script had a heavy Whoopie Goldberg
presence in it.  TNG sets will be redressed for Voyager and redressed for
the Movies.

26 November 1993 New York City Creation Convention:  Gates McFadden said
that Patrick Stewart is the only TNG cast member signed for the TNG movie.
It is directed by David Carson.  Carson received the script last week.
There will be another rewrite (supposedly final) of the script before it is
handed to the cast.  The movie will involve the TOS cast.  Filming will
start 21 March and run three months.  Release date is late November.  The
TNG movie sets are being built as of right now.  There will be an
upgrade on the Enterprise bridge and some minor costumes changes due to
fact that the movie will be on a movie screen where details will be bigger
and more visible.

Late November 1993 news (no source):  The movie's script is still in
decision.  It'll be one of two different stories, each has spots written in
for the TOS characters.  One script has a "heavy Data theme" and the other
a "heavy Riker theme".  The only question is, which one is going to be the
first movie, and which is going to be the second.  This may be from Rick
Berman from the TNG fan magazine.

5 December 1993 Madison, WI Creation con:  Marina Sirtis said that stewart
is the only one signed so far.  It seems that everyone is in it right now,
and the story will be modified to accommodate whoever actually shows up.

7-8 December 1993 Chicago Sun-Times:  Bill Zwecker's "Celebs" column
reports that the only thing holding up Paramount's TNG movie is William
Shatner.  He's reportedly demanding $1,000,000 to play Captain Kirk.  It's
only a cameo so Paramount is balking at his price tag.

15 December 1993 Detroit Free Press page 16D:  "Levar Burton caught a look
at the new 'Star Trek' movie script over the weekend and reports that
'there will be a formal passing of the baton.' Translated, that means
William Shatner and James Doohan will have to squeeze into their
overburdened Starfleet uniforms again, but only for the opening sequence.
Then the action beams forward in time to focus on the new crew.  'Star
Trek:  The Next Generation:  The Movie' should start filming in April and
hit theaters next Christmas, unless all that punctuation slows things
down."

Mid-December 1993:  Several people reported seeing on Entertainment Tonight
(and possibly other sources) that there would be two more seasons of TNG on
TV with the TNG movies being filmed concurrently.  [This seems unlikely,
since doing *only* TNG on TV leaves the cast very little time--it seems
unlikely that they would have time to squeeze a film in there (though the
filming *IS* only supposed to take three months, so they could start the
next season of TNG a little late, possibly in January 1995 --ed]

2 January 1994:  The Globe (one of those "high-quality" rags like the
National Enquirer) reports that Kirk dies in the TNG film.  It starts in
the time of Kirk, Spock, etc.  They get involved in a battle of some sorts
near a space-time phenomena, and in the ensuing battle, Kirk vanishes and
is presumed dead.  Jump ahead to TNG time.  Something about a massive power
struggle invloving aliens, and the new Enterprise happens upon this
phenomena, where they find Kirk alive, but trapped inside.  They free him,
only to find he was injured in the battle that put him there in the first
place.  After some teary good-byes and cheesy dialogue, Kirk passes on, and
Picard says something like "This won't be the last great starship to bear
the name Enterprise."  The gossip rags should usually be taken with a grain
of salt, but they have been fairly accurate on the last three Star Trek
movies.

9 January 1994 Sacramento con:  Wendy Neuss reports that there is to be a
significant part for Guinan in the TNG movie.  The role is Whoopi
Goldberg's if she wants it.  Neuss strongly hinted that Guinan is the
common thread between Picard and Kirk.

13-14 January 1994 New York Daily News:  Marina Sirtis says the TOS cast
will be filming for a couple weeks in March and the TNG cast will join them
in April.  She asys the crossover only happens with two characters, but the
script will go through many re-writes, so things could change a lot.

15 January 1994 Daily Mail (British National Newspaper):  In an article
with the byline "By Peter Sheridan in Los Angeles", they report that Nimoy
may not be in the movie:  "He has been part of the Star Trek Legend for a
space age.  But Mr Spock will not be on board when the Starship Enterprise
heads off on its latest movie mission.  Leonard Nimoy, who has played the
pointy-eared Vulcan for more than 25 years, has refused to appear in Star
Trek VII, the next film installment in the space saga.  Yesterday the man
who wrote, co-produced, directed or starred in each of the six previous
films blamed 'creative differences' for his decision to bow out.  But
insiders claim that Nimoy was unhappy because Spock had been reduced to a
mere bit-player in the new movie."

Mid-January 1994:  Hero Magazine reports that Picard and company will
rescue a frozen Kirk (a la Luke and Han in the Star Wars films).  

17 January 1994 Chicago Sun-Times:  They verified the story about a
Spock-less movie because of "creative differences".

Late-January 1994:  Info supposedly from a recent convention says that the
next movie will include both the original cast and the new cast *however*
they will not actually meet.  The basic plot is that the Enterprise-B (on
its maiden voyage) is called to respond to some distress hail.  They find a
crazy Vulcan scientist on a planet who has made some device that creates
what he calls a vortex that is essentially a place where time stands still.
He's planning on using it for a doomsday weapon of some sort.  Kirk and
company battle him and in the course Kirk vanishes never to be seen again.
The movie the jumps ahead 75 years, the Enterprise-D is called to some
planet by a distress hail and find the same Vulcan.  There's a big fight.
Picard has to go down to the planet, and in the process gets caught in the
vortex with the scientist.  They fight it out and just as Picard is about
to kick the bucket, Kirk (who has been in the vortex all this time) jumps
out and they duke it out.  The Vulcan kills Kirk, but not before Kirk and
Picard kill him.  Kirk dies in Picard's arms and his final words are, "It's
been fun."

23 January 1994:  Nimoy said at a convention that the Spock character would
not be in the movie.  He said he didn't feel like the character was being
used well.

Late-January 1994:  A science fiction store in Cambridge (Man from Atlantis)
has what they say is a lithograph from the upcoming Star Trek movie.  It was
sort of a promotional still photograph.  It showed a rear shot of the
Enterprise-D going into warp drive, with numerous streaks of red and blue
light all around it.  Apparently the title of the movie will be "Star Trek:
The Next Generation:  The Movie" (without the colons).  The Star Trek TNG
font was changed slightly, but not too much.

Late-January 1994:  The National Enquirer reports that Kirk and Picard will
fight each other, with Kirk being forced into the fight.  They claim that
it comes from Nimoy.

30 January 1994 Los Angeles Creation con:  They now are saying that Kirk
and Picard will meeteach other at the *end* of the movie.

5-6 February 1994 Vancouver Creation con:  The delayed the start of filming
for the new movie from March 21 to March 25.  Michael Dorn mentioned that
Stewart is the only one signed for it so far.

12 February 1994 Little Rock Creation convention:  Marina Sirtis said the
only two people who have signed on for the movie are Stewart and Shatner.

The February? 1994 Official Star Trek Fan Club Magazine reports that the
last episode of TNG will NOT be a lead in to the movie.

February 1994 con guests (Herman Zimmermann, William Shatner, Linda Gomez)
are confirming the plot outlined in The Globe:  The film opens with the TOS
cast attending the commissioning of a new starship (reportedly the
Enterprise-B.)  Kirk meets Guinan and Picard in the film.  The Duras
sisters are in the movie.  Herman Zimmermann (TNG/DS9 set designer) reports
(not in The Globe) that the current film budget is $35 million.

February 20 1994 con:  Marina Sirtis says she only has two scenes in the
movie.  In one she crashes the ship.  The ship gets to separate.  She said
the reason no one but the captains have signed it because Paramount offered
the rest of the cast half of what they were offered for a movie two years
ago.  She says they've done better episodes (than the movie), and they
haven't done many WORSE episodes.

27 February 1994 San Francisco Con:  Richard Arnold said that only Stewart
had signed.  The TNG sets are getting more detailed with each episode in
1994 as they are polishing them bit by bit as the time gets closer to
filming of the movie.  He said that we will NOT see Wesley in the movie.

26-27 February 1994 Dever con:  Patrick Stewart said that all the cast
thought the season finale of TNG was a much better script that what they
are going to be doing for the movie.

4 March 1994:  Doohan said at a con that Paramount finally worked out a
price with him to be in the movie.  He also said that the entire TNG cast is
signed.

5 March 1994:  A first draft dialogue script dated 10/1/93 seems to agree
with what The Globe printed.  It involves the Duras sisters, heavy on the
Data theme (he gets his emotion chip and makes it with one of the Duras
Sisters (losing an arm in the process)).  The saucer section crashes on a
planet while the drive section blows up (they separated (evacuating
personnel to the saucer) when they were ambushed).  Troi was driving at the
time.  Paramount plans to redress the TNG sets to use for the movies, then
redress the sets again for Voyager.  They will build all-new sets for the
second TNG film with the 1701-E ("The big E^2?").  Kirk meets Picard in the
Nexus.  After fighting the bad guy, Soran, Kirk dies in Picard's arms.
Guinan and Soran were beamed aboard the Enterprise-B from the Nexus.  The
TOS sequence involves ships that are rescuing survivors from a Borg attack.
This seems strange since the Borg never met the Federation until Picard was
flung by Q.  (Thanks Martin!)

5-6 March 1994 Montreal Creation convention:  Marina Sirtis said that
Stewart is still the only one signed, and the only thing keeping her from
signing now has something to do with her hair.  She said the plot has Guinan
and the Duras sisters.  The film might be called "Star Trek 7:  The Next
Generation".

12-13 March 1994 South Bend Creation con:  Mike Dorn said he has signed on
for three TNG films.

12-13 March 1994:  The E cable network showed a press conference for movies
to be released in 1994, including a clip of Shatner and Stewart announcing
ST7.  The title for the movie superimposed on the screen was "ST7:
Generations".  They only showed a few seconds of Shatner speaking, but he
said something to the effect "The two captains meet and then there's
trouble."

Mid-March Vallry Gorge, PA Creation con:  Stewart, Shatner, Doohan, Koenig
are signed for the movie.  Nimoy and Kelley will NOT be in it.  Someone
asked if Worf would ever be promoted and Frakes said "Watch the movie."

19 March 1994 Pasadena convention:  Herman Zimmerman (Production Designer
for DS9) said the movie would feature a new Enterprise B sick bay, a
deflector room, an 1880 (I think) sailing ship, bird of prey and there
would be a pair of captains on the bird of prey and it will be much bigger.
On the Enterprise D there is a new stellar cartography set.  Picard and
Data looking at star maps and will be surrounded by the galaxy.  ILM has a
budget of $8,000,000 dollars for the film.  He said the studio has been
generous with the budget and the script is all action.  There will be a new
comm badge and ensigna for the film and also for the Klingons.  Other info
from the con:  Whoopi hasn't signed but they hope to have her in the film.
Wes Crusher and Q will not be in the movie.  No children in the movie.
Marina Sirtis will have a new wig for the movie.  The feature film has its
own production and art department.  Rick Sternbach may do so minor things
for the film.  The budget went from $40,000,000 to $25,000,000.

20 March 1994 Entertainment Weekly:  It was reported from the ShoWest
convention in Vegas, which featured Stewart and Shatner together.  Basic
plot:  Picard must rescue Kirk from a "terribly destructive phenomenon that
travels through space where past, present, and futures converge."  Shatner
will *probably* be joined by at least Nichelle Nichols and DeForest Kelley,
and maybe others.  As previously reported, definitely no Nimoy for this
one.  Nimoy is quoted as saying "I just didn't respond to [the script].  I
wish them bon voyage."  He added, "I am sad about it."  Of the TNG cast,
Frakes, Sirtis, and Whoopi Goldberg have signed on.  Sayeth Rick Berman,
"Has every negotiation been signed, sealed, and delivered?  No.  Am I
confident they'll all be in the movie?  Yes."  There will be sharper
uniforms, and one "four-letter word" in the script.  Kirk is slated to die
at the end!  However, one production source (unnamed) is quoted as saying,
"Kirk may be stuck in the 21st [I believe he meant 24th] century forever,
if Shatner has an opinion."

20 March 1994 From a copy of the first draft dialogue script dated 10/1/93
(extra major spoilers here):  The film opens with a bottle breaking on bow
of Enterprise-B, Excelsior class, at its commissioning ceremony.  TOS crew
assembles on bridge of Enterprise-B (this script assumes everybody signs).
Enterprise-B is under command of Capt.  John Harriman.  Enterprise-B takes
maiden voyage around sol system.  While out and about, Enterprise-B
receives distress call from the transport ship Lakul, which, along with two
others, is bringing El-Aurian refugees to Earth (more on this later).
Enterprise-B responds and finds the three ships under attack by tendrils of
energy emanating from a large cloud of energy.  Enterprise-B is using a
skeleton crew and has no tractor beam.  One of the transports is destroyed.
Then the second.  Enterprise-B closes to transporter range (which happens
to also put it in range of the tendrils).  McCoy goes down to medical to
help out with the soon to be arriving survivors, and takes Chekov with him.
Uhura takes over at transporter controls (on the bridge?)  Meanwhile, Spock
goes to science station and determines the survivors' life signs are
fluctuating in and out of our continuum.  Third ship is destroyed, but not
before 47 people are rescued.  Then the Enterprise-B comes under attack by
the tendrils of energy.  Down in sickbay, one rescuee gets violent, asking
"why?"  Bones gives him a sedative.  As the ship is rocked violently, a
woman begins to fall.  Bones grabs her.  Surprise!  It's Guinan.
Meanwhile, Spock decides that using the deflector to simulate an
anti-matter burst could push them free of the energy cloud.  Kirk takes off
for the turbolift, to go down and effectuate Spock's plan in the deflector
room.  Kirk re-wires the deflector and they Enterprise-B fires its burst
and begins to break free.  One final tendril hits the ship, blasting a
portion of the saucer section.  The section Kirk was in has been vaporized,
leaving a gaping hole into space.  Everybody gets sad.  Harriman orders the
ship to return to Earth.  Fade to TNG (78 years later):  The crew is aboard
the USS Enterprise (the original sailing frigate) and dressed in uniforms
of the period.  Picard orders the prisoner brought out.  Troi and Geordi
bring out Worf, shackled in irons.  Picard then announces the charges
against Worf (basically, being a good officer and everyone's friend).  The
crew finds him guilty.  Worf is punished with...  promotion to Lt Cmdr.
During the ceremony, Data wishes he could join in the festivities, so
Geordi activates Data's newly installed emotion chip.  Data begins laughing
too loud.  Crew is called to bridge.  Holodeck program ends.  On bridge,
they learn that a Federation science station in the Amargosa System is
under attack by a Romulan Warbird.  Onboard station, Romulans materialize
and exchange fire with Federation occupants.  Dr Soran (the rescuee who
shouted "why?"  in the Enterprise-B sickbay) has not aged a day and is on
the station.  Romulan grabs a Federation ensign and demands to know where
the trillithium is.  Just then, the Enterprise comes into view and opens
fire on the Warbird.  Worf, Riker and others beam onto station.  Romulans
beam out and cloak.  Stardate at this point is 48646.3.  Soran wants power
restored to the station to continue his experiments.  Riker tells him to
wait.  Data's emotion chip overloads and Geordi cannot remove it.  We learn
that trillithium is a substance the Klingons experimented with a decade
ago, and could be thousands of times more powerful than an anti-matter
weapon.  Research was discontinued because trillithium could not be safely
stabilized.  On the station, Geordi discovers a solar probe that is
emanating a trillithium signature.  Soran knocks Geordi unconscious.
Picard comes to Troi and tells her his brother, Robert, died of a heart
attack and he'll miss the funeral.  Picard says he is getting a sense of
his own mortality based on time running out, rather than the consequences
of his actions (battles, etc.)  Suddenly, the star of the system the
station is located in begins to flare and change colors, getting darker.
Soran has launched his solar probe.  Worf et al beam back to the Enterprise
(without Geordi) as a Klingon Battlecruiser decloaks and beams Soran &
Geordi onboard, then cloaks and leaves town.  Meanwhile, the star has
exploded and the Enterprise must outrun the shock wave.  Afterwards, Picard
learns that the Klingon ship belongs to Lursa and B'Etor, the Duras
sisters.  Picard and Riker make connection between Soran and the
Enterprise-B incident.  They review McCoy's logs from sickbay, learning
that Tolian Soran suffers the same emotional trauma as other survivors from
the Lakul.  They then scan all other survivors and find Guinan on the list.
Guinan says she doesn't remember much.  She tells them the energy cloud is
called the Nexus, and that being inside it is like heaven.  A person can
live wherever, whenever and forever.  While she was on the Lakul, she was
partially absorbed into the Nexus, but then was pulled out by the
transporters from the Enterprise-B.  Apparently, it was this experience
that gave Guinan her additional "sixth sense" as it were.  She believes
Soran is trying to find a way back into the Nexus.  Meanwhile, Soran
tortures Geordi before putting a transceiver in his visor.  Also, we learn
that the Duras sisters are helping because they want a trillithium weapon,
which Soran has promised to deliver.  Data discovers the Nexus passes
through our galaxy every 39.1 years (then why has no one ever seen it
before?)  (Note:  while Data discusses the effects of the star's explosion,
he mentions that the starship Bozeman was forced to make a course
correction.  The Bozeman, if you don't recall, is the ship that collided
with the Enterprise in "Cause and Effect."  Do they mean to say that it's
still in service?)  Data then says every ship that has approached the Nexus
has been dest royed or damaged.  (There's been more?  Again, why has no one
learned anything about it then?)  Picard puts two and two together and
realizes that Soran cannot enter the Nexus via ship, but is hoping to steer
the Nexus toward him by blowing up stars along its route, thus altering its
course toward him.  He then determines that Soran will blow up the star in
the Veridian system (which is populated).  The Enterprise heads for the
Veridian system.  There, it encounters the Battlecruiser and tells it to
surrender.  The Duras sisters know they can't fight.  Soran completes his
implant in Geordi's visor and then transports Geordi to the Enterprise,
while himself beaming down to the surface of Veridian III, where he meets
with Picard.  The Duras sisters watch, impatiently, at the image from
Geordi's visor, waiting for him to go to engineering.  Meanwhile, Picard
talks to Soran.  (Note:  Picard says Soran's family was killed when the
Borg attacked El-Auria, the survivors of which attack were being
transported on the three ships in the beginning.  1) The Borg weren't in
Federation space yet.  2) Borg don't typically leave survivors.)  Data
starts picking up a transmission from the Enterprise to the Klingon ship
(dejavu?  See "The Mind's Eye.")  Meanwhile, Geordi finally gets to
engineering.  The Duras sisters see the control panels, figure out the
codes to lower the Enterprise's shields, do so, and open fire.  The
Enterprise suffers massive damage.  Worf recalls the old style
battlecruisers were mothballed after discovering they suffered from
defective plasma coils.  Riker decides a low level ionic pulse will reset
the coil and trigger their cloak.  As the battlecruiser targets the
Enterprise bridge, it begins to cloak, causing its shields to fail.
Enterprise fires torpedoes.  Klingon ship explodes, and Data shouts "Yes!"
Meanwhile on the Enterprise, the magnetic interlocks have ruptured and we
have a coolant leak.  Five minutes until warp core breach.  Crew evacuates
to saucer section, which separates.  Drive section explodes, forcing saucer
section into atmosphere of Veridian III.  Data says, "Oh, shit."  Saucer
section crashes onto planet and suffers massive damage.  Picard runs from
Soran, who shoots at him but misses.  Soran makes off for his outpost on
the planet's surface.  Back to saucer section.  Nothing works (doors,
lights, other systems).  They begin clearing debris and rescuing survivors.
Data discovers Spot has survived.  He (Data) begins to cry.  Riker, Worf
and Geordi go to the shuttlebay, where they find the doors ripped open and
only one shuttle remaining, and it's badly damaged.  As they evacuate the
saucer section, phaser fire comes from the surrounding jungle.  The Duras
sisters and their guards beamed to the surface before the explosion and try
to commandeer the remaining shuttle.  Troi determines that the Duras
sisters are experiencing a high degree of sexual arousal at this time, and
everyone decides to send Data to "service" them and get in their good
graces.  Data seduces B'Etor, calling her his "little garlic muffin."
After sex, Data returns, badly damaged.  His arm falls off.  Riker sends
Worf, Data, 11 children and the Duras sisters in a shuttle to find Soran.
If they don't find him within 1 hour, the shuttle will leave for the
nearest starbase.  Geordi disassembles Data and integrates him into the
shuttle's computer system.  Meanwhile, Picard has found Soran at his
outpost and the two fight.  Picard cannot stop Soran's probe from being
launched.  The probe hits the Veridian sun and it explodes.  The Nexus is
sent toward the planet and Picard and Soran are absorbed into it as the
Veridian system is destroyed.  In the Nexus, Picard meets his brother,
Robert, who is a 12 year old boy.  Picard follows Robert into Robert's
secret hiding place on their parent's winery.  Picard recalls that his
brother only let him visit his secret place once, and never again.  Robert
leaves to get some bread to go with the vintage wine he's stolen from their
father.  As Picard waits, Guinan appears, wearing the same outfit she had
on onboard the Enterprise-B.  She explains that when she was beamed aboard
the Enterprise-B, part of her was left behind in the Nexus - same with
Soran.  Guinan tells Picard he can visit any point in time and space.  He
wants to go back to Veridian III and stop Soran from launching the probe.
Guinan says she knows who can help.  Picard finds himself in a barn, where
Kirk is grooming a horse.  Picard explains the desperate situation to Kirk.
Kirk says he is tired of saving the universe, he's done his time, now leave
him alone.  Kirk gets on his horse and rides off.  Picard grabs another
horse and follows.  A chase ensues.  Kirk and Picard leap a ravine, then
stop.  Picard points out that Kirk was not scared by leaping the ravine,
because life has no meaning in the Nexus.  Finally, Kirk agrees his life is
meaningless in the Nexus and he agrees to return to Veridian III with
Picard.  They return.  Kirk attacks Soran and the two fight hand to hand.
Meanwhile, Picard can't stop the launch, again, but he does manage to cause
the probe to lose its guidance and crash back on the planet.  Soran shoots
Kirk, who drops.  Soran then attacks Picard, but Picard gets a blaster and
kills Soran.  Kirk dies in Picard's arms.  The shuttle arrives to find
Picard, and off they go to the saucer.  Stardate is now 48650.1.  The crew
is rescued by the Farragut.  Picard remains alone on the bridge for a
moment.  Sitting in his chair, he reads aloud from Hamlet:  "He was a man,
take him for all in all x I shall not look upon his like again."
(Referring to Kirk or the Enterprise?)  Picard beams up.  The End.  (there
seems to be a typo in the Hamlet quote).  (thanks again, Martin!)

25-27 UK convention:  The second TNG movie is a Borg script.  Shatner,
Koenig, Doohan, Goldberg, and everybody from TNG are signed for "Star Trek:
Generations".  57-day shooting schedule.  ILM is doing the effects.
Overall budget went from $50 million to $40, to $35, to $30.  It stands at
$25 at the moment.  This is due to Viacom trying to recoup some cash it
used to take over Paramount.

27-28 March 1994:  "HOLLYWOOD -- Malcolm McDowell will star as the villain
Soren in the upcoming feature 'Star Trek:  Generations.' McDowell will do
battle with both Capt Jean-Luc Picard of 'Star Trek:  The Next Generation'
fame -- played by Patrick Stewart -- and Capt James T Kirk, played by
William Shatner of the Original TV Series.  The feature, due to begin
principal photography Monday, brings together two generations of 'Star
Trek' casts through a 'unique astronomical phenomonen,' Paramount confirms.
Among cast member from the Original 'Star Trek' TV series who will reprise
their roles are James Doohan as Scotty, and Walter Koenig as Chekhov.
There will be no Mr Spock in this 24th century adventure.  The 'Next
Generation' TV cast members who will make the hyperspace leap to feature
film will be Jonathan Frakes (Riker), LeVar Burton (La Forge), Michael Dorn
(Worf), Gates McFadden (Crusher), Marina Sirtis, (Troi), Brent Spiner
(Data), and Whoopi Goldberg (Guinan).  The film will be directed by David
Carson, whose many TV and legit credits include directing the two-hour
pilot episode of 'Deep Space Nine,' a 'Trek' spinoff.  Rick Berman
produces.  Brannon Braga and Ron Moore have pulled scripting duties."
--Kathleen O'Steen, Reuters/Variety

Late March 1994:  Multiple sources have reported a script where Kirk is
cryogenically frozen and thawed by aliens to fight Picard.  This sounds
like something Paramount would intentionally leak out to throw people away
fromthe real storyline.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
If you know of any other topics that should be included in this list, feel
free to email me at one of the addresses below.  Be aware that about 10% of
the mail I send out bounces, so if you don't get a reply from me, it isn't
because I'm ignoring you.  :-)

This article is Copyright 1994 by Otto Heuer.  It may be freely
redistributed in its entirety provided that this copyright notice is not
removed.  It may not be sold for profit or incorporated in commercial
documents without the written permission of the copyright holder.
Permission is expressly granted for this document to be made available for
file transfer from installations offering unrestricted anonymous file
transfer on the Internet free of charge.  

		--Otto "HACK-MAN" Heuer
 _____  _________  _                         _____   _____   _____   _____ 
|  ___||  _______|| | Otto E. Heuer, CEO    ||___|| |_   _| |_   _| ||___||
| |__  | |___  ___| | FSD, Inc.             |  o  |   | |     | |   |  o  |
|  __| |___  ||  _  | "The innovator for    |__O__|   |_|     |_|   |__O__|
| | _______| || |_| | software solutions."            C, Pascal, Fortran, BASIC
|_||_________||_____|         Assembly Language, Snobol, Ada, APL, Prolog, LISP
Unix, MS-DOS, ProDOS       .  .   .   .... .  .   .   .   .   .   . Audio/Video
ottoh@cfsmo.honeywell.com  :..: .:.:. :    :.' .. :`.': .:.:. :`. :   Star Trek
hackman@pnet51.orb.mn.org  :  : :   : :... : `.   :   : :   : :  `:  Apple IIgs

