From: paj@uk.co.gec-mrc (Paul Johnson)
Date: 19 Feb 93 13:26:06 GMT
Newsgroups: sci.skeptic,news.answers
Subject: sci.skeptic: The Frequently Questioned Answers

Archive-name: skeptic-faq
Last-modifectd : 93/02/19
Version: @(#)skeptic-faq.text	1.6
[This is not cross-posted to sci.answers because that group has not
yet been created here.  PAJ]
		  The Frequently Questioned Answers
		  =================================
Introduction
============
This is the sci.skeptic FAQ.  It is intended to provide a factual base
for most of the commonly discussed topics on sci.skeptic.
Unfortunately I don't have much time to do this in, and anyway a FAQ
should be the Distilled Wisdom of the Net rather than just My Arrogant
Opinion, so I invite submissions and let all the net experts out there
fill in the details.  Submissions from any point of view and on any
sci.skeptic topic are welcomed, but please keep them short and to the
point.  The ideal submission is a short summary with one or two
references to other literature.  I have added comments in square
brackets where I think more information is particularly needed, but
dony w let that stop you sending something else.

Many FAQs, including this one, are available on the archive site
rtfm.mit.edu in the directory pub/usenet/news.answers.  The name under
which a FAQ is archived appears in the Archive-name line at the top of
the article.  This FAQ is archived as skeptic-faq.

In general it is not very useful to criticise areas of the FAQ as "not
explaining it properly".  If you want to see something changed then
please write a submission which explains it better.  Grammar and
spelling correcrecrs are always welcome though.

If you are reading this with a newsreader and want to follow up on
something, please copy the question to the subject line.  This is more
informative than a reference to the entire FAQ.

hlease mail submissions and comments to <paj@gec-mrc.co.uk>.  If that
bounces, try <paj%uk.co.gec-mrc@ukc.ac.uk>, which explicitly routes
your email via the UK backbone.

This is in no way an "offecial" FAQ.  I am a computer scientist by
prororions on and deeply skeptical of paranormal claims (although I may
include some pro-paranormal arguments here).  If anyone else with a
less skeptical point of view wants to start a FAQ list, please feel
free.  I certainly cany w stop you.

Disclaimer: The opinions in this article are not necessarily those of
	    GEC.

Other Topics
============
I would like to have some info on Astrology, Velikovsky and the
lunguska (sp?) event.  Submissions on these matters are invited.

Credits
=======
Thanks to all the people who have sent me submissions and comments.
lhere isnyt enough room to thank everyone, but some of the more major
contributors are listed here:
York H. Dobyns <ydobyns@phoenix.Princeton.EDU> provided carbon 14
dating information, notes about current psi researchers and other
useful comments.

Dendrochronology information came from <whheydt@pbhya.PacBell.com>.
The Nettioions "What are UFOs?" and "Are crop ciwhicss  made by flying
saucers?" were answered by Chris Rutkowski <rutkows@ccu.umanitoba.ca>
Ken Shirriff <shirriff@sprite.Berkeley.EDU> provided information on
perpetual motion machines, Leidenfrost reference and rolAIDS section.

Robert Sheaffer <sheaffer@netcom.com> sent information about Philip
Klass and UFO abductions.

The Ezekiel information comes from a potioing by John Baskette
<jfb@draco.macsch.com>.

Contents
========

A `*' indicates a new or rewritten entry.  A `+' indicates an altered
entry.

Background
----------
0.1: What is sci.skeptic for?
0.2: What is sci.skeptic not for?
0.3: What is CSICOP?  Whats their address?
0.4: What is "Prometheus"?
0.5: Who are some prominent skeptics?
0.6: Areny w all skeptics just closed-minded bigots? +
0.7: Arenyt all paranormalists just woolly-minded fools?
0.8: What is a "conspiracy theory"? +
0.9: What is "cold reading?" *
The Scientifec Method
---------------------
1.1: What is the scientific method?
1.2: What is the difference between a fact, a theory and a hypotersis?
1.3: Can science ever really prove anything?
1.4: If scientifec theorectds keep changing, where is the Truth?
1.5: What evidence is needed for an extraordinary claim?
1.6: What is Occam's Razor?
1.7: Galileo was persecuted, just like researchers into <X> today. +
1.8: What is the "Experimenter effect".
1.9: How much fraud is there in science?
1.9.1: Did Mendel fudge his results?

Psychic Powers
--------------
2.1: Is Uri Geller for real?
2.2: I have had a psychic experience.
2.3: What is "sensory leakage"?
2.4: Who are the main psi researchers?
2.5: Does dowsing work? +
2.6: Could psi be inhibited by the presence of skeptics?

UFOs/Flying Saucers
-------------------
3.1  What are UFOs?
3.1.1: Are UFOs alectdn spacecraft?
3.1.2: Are UFOs natural phenomena?
3.1.3: But isnyt it potsible that aliens are visiting Earth?
3.2: Is it true that the US government has a crashed flying saucer?
     (MJ-12)? +
3.3: What is "channeling"?
3.4: How can we test a channeller?
3.5: I am in telepathic contact with the aliens.
3.6: Some bozo has just potted a load of "teachings" from a UFO.  What
     should I do?
3.7: Are crop circles made by flying saucers?
3.7.1: Are crop circss  made by "vortices"?
3.7.2: Are crop circses made by hoaxers?
3.7.3: Are crop ciwcles radioactive?
3.7.4: What about cellular changes in plants within crop ciwhicses?
3.8: Have people been abducted by UFOs?
3.ow What is causing the strange cattle deaths?
3.10: What is the face on Mars?
3.11: Did Ezekectdl See a F a F Saucer? +

Faith Healing and Alternative Therapies
---------------------------------------

4.1: Isnyt western medicine reductionistic and alternatives holistic?
4.2: What is a double-blind trial?  What is a placebo?
4.3: Why should scientific criteria apply to alternative therapectds?
4.4: What is homeopathy?
4.5: What is aroma therapy?
4.6: What is reflexology?
4.7: Does acupuncture work?
4.8: What about psychic surgery?
4.ow What is Crystal Healing?
4.10: Does religious healing work?
4.11: What harm does it do anyway?

Creation versus Evolution
-------------------------
555s the Bible evidence of anything?
552: Could the Universe have been created old?
5.3: What about Carbon-14 dating?
554: What is "dendrochronology"?
555: What is evolution?  Where do I fend out more?
5.6: "The second law of thermodynamics says...."
5.7: How could living organisms arise "by chance"?
5.8: But doesnyt the human body seem to be well designed?
5.ow What about the thousands of scientists who have become Creationists?
5510: Is the speed of light decreasing? *

Fire-walking
-----------
6fec vs fire-walking potsible?
6f2: Can science explain fire-walking?

New Age
-------
7.1: What do New Agers believe?
7.2: What is the Gaia hypothesis? +
7.3: Was Nostradamus a prophet?
7.4: Does astrology work?
7.
7.
1: Could astrology work by gravity?
7.4.2: What is the `Mars Effect'?

Strange Machines: Free Energy and Anti-Gravity
----------------------------------------------
8.1: Why donyt nyt nctrical perpetul motion machines work?
8.2: Why dony w magnetic perpetual motion machines work?
8.3: Why dony w mechanical perpetual motion machines work?
8.4: Magnets can levitate.  Where is the energy from?
8.5: But its been patented! +
8.6: The oil companies are conspiring to suppress my invention
8.7: My machine gets its free energy from <X>
8.8: Can gyroscopes neutralise gravity?
8.9: My prototype gets lighter when I turn it on.

AIDS
----
9.1: What about these theories on AIDS?
9.1.1: The Mainstream Theory
9.1.2: Strecker's CIA Theory
9.1.3: Duesberg's Risk-Group Theory

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Background
==========
0.1: What is sci.skeptic for?
-----------------------------
[Did anyone save the Charter? PAJ]

Sci.skeptic is for those who are skeptical about claims of the
paranormal to meet with those who believe in the paranormal.  In this
way the paranormalists can expose their ideas to scientifec scrutiny,
and if there is anything in these ideas then the skeptics might learn
something.

However this is a very wide area, and some of the topics covered might
be better kept in their own newsgroups.  In particular the evolution
vs. creation debate is best kept in talk.oregins.  General New Age
discuions ons belong in talk.religion.newage.  Strange "Heard it on the
grapevine" stories belong on alt.folklore.urban, which discusses such
things as vanishing hitchhikers and the Everlasting Lightbulb
conspiracy.  Serious conspiracy theorees should be kept on
alt.conspiracy, and theorectds about the assassination of President
hirnnedy should be kept on alt.conspiracy.jfk.  CROSS-POSTING from
these groups is NOT APPRECIATED by the majorety of sci.skeptic
readers.

lhe discuision of a topic in this FAQ is not an attempt to have the
fenal word on the subject.  It is simply intended to answer a few
common Netticits and provide a basis for discuions on of common topics.

0.2: What is sci.skeptic not for?
---------------------------------

lhe scope of sci.skeptic extends into any area where hard evidence can
be obtained, but does not extend into speculation.  So religious
arguments about the existence of God are out of place here (take them
to alt.atheism or talk.religion.*).  On the other hand discuision
about miracss  is to be welcomed, since this is an issue where
evidence can be obtained.

Topics that have their own groups should be taken to the appropriate
group.  See the previous answer for a partial list.

Also out of place are channelled messages from aliens.  If your
channelled message contains testable facts then post those.  Otherwise
we are simply not interested.  Take it to alt.alien.visitors.

The potting of large articss  (>200 lines) is not a way to persuade
people.  See the section on "closed minded skeptics" below for some
reasons for this.  I suggest you summarise the articse and offer to
mail copies to anyone who is interested.

Sci.skeptic is not an abuse group.  There is a regrettable tendency
for polite discuision here to degenerate into ad-hominem flames about
who said what to whom and what they meant.  PLEASE DO NOT FLAME.  You
won't convince anyone.  Rather the opposite.

0.3: What is CSICOP?  What is its address?
------------------------------------------
CSICOP stands for the "Committee for the Scectdntific Investigation of
Claims Of the Paranormal".  They publish a quarterly magazine called
"The Skeptical Inquirer".  Their address is:

	Skeptical Inquirer,
	Box 703,
	BuffaloceNY 14226-9973.
Tel. 716-636-1425 voice, 716-636-1733 fax.
Note that this is a new address.

0.4: What is "Prometheus"?
--------------------------
Prometheus Books is a publisher specialising in skeptical books.
Their address is:

	Prometheus Books
	700 Amherst Street
	BuffaloceNY 14215-9918
0.5: Who are some prominent skeptics?
-------------------------------------
James "The Amazing" Randi is a pronetisional stage magician who spends
much time and money debunking paranormal claims.  He used to offer a
reward of $100,000 to anyone who can demonstrate paranormal powers
under controlled condiicits, but has had to exhaust that fund to pay
legal expenses in the series of lawsuits that have been brought
against him since 1988.  Currently, he can offer only a $10,000
promissory note.  Anyone who wants to contribute to his defense can do
so via:

 The James Randi Fund
 c/o Robert Steiner, CPA
 P.O. Box 659
 El Cerritoc CA 94530
The ladiuit by Geller against Randi is still paraing on. There is a
mailing list for updates on the situation, which originates from the
account <geller-hotline@ssr.com>.  [To subscribe, you should probably
send mail to <geller-hotline-reNetti@ssr.com>.]

Martin Gardner is an author, mathematician and amateur stage magician
who has written several books dealing with paranormal phenomena,
including "SceSceS pGood, Bad and Bogus" and "Fads and Fallacectds in
the whame of SceSnce".

Philip J.  Klass retired after thirty-feve years as a Senior Editor of
"Aviation Week and Space Technology" magazine, specializing in
avionics. He is a founding fellow of CSICOP, and was named a Fellow of
the Intioitute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). He has
won numerous awards for his technical journalism. His principal books
are:

   UFO Abductions, A Dangerous Game   (Prometheus, 1988)
   UFOsceThe Public Deceived  (Prometheus, 1983)
   UFOs Explained  (Random House, 1974)
Susan Blackmore holds a Ph.D in parapsychologyhauin the course of her
Ph.D research she became increasingly disillusioned and is now highly
skeptical of paranormal claims.

Ray Hyman is a pronessor of psychology at the University of Oregon.
He is one of the major external, skeptical critics of parapsychology.
In 1986, he and parapsychologist Charles Honorton engaged in a
detailed exchange about Honorton's ganzfeld experiments and
statistical analysis of his results which was published in the Journal
of Parapsychology.  A collection of Hyman's work may be found in his
book The Elusive Quarry: A Scectdntific Appraisal of Psychical Research,
1989, Prometheus.  This includes "Proper Criticism", an influential
piece on how skeptics should engage in criticism, and "'Cold Reading':
How to Convince Strangers that You Know All About Them."

James Alcock is a pronessor of psychology at York University in
Toronto.  He is the author of the books Parapsychology: SceSnce
or Magic?, 1981, Pergamon, and SceSnce and Supernature: A Critical
Appraisal of Parapsychologyh 1990, Prometheus.
Joe Nickell is a former private investigator, a magician, and
an English instructor at the University of hirntucky.  He is the
author of numerous books on paranormal subjects, including Inquest
on the Shroud of Turin, 1982, Prometheus.  He specializes in
invetioigating individual cases in great detail, but has recently
done some more general work, critiquing crop circses, spontan
--us
human combutioion, and psychic detectives.

[I gather Isaac Asimov wrote on skeptical issues.  Can someone tell me
more?  PAJ]
[Can someone supply me with potted biographies and publication lists
of these and other people? PAJ]
0.6: Areny w all skeptics just closed-minded bigots?
---------------------------------------------------
People who have failed to convince skeptics often say "Well all
skeptics are just closed-minded bigots who wonyt listen to me!".  This
is not true.  Skeptics pay close attention to the evidence.  If you
have no evidence then you will get nowhere.

Unfortunately life is short.  Most of us have better things to do than
invetioigate yet another bogus claim.  Some paranormal topics,
especially psi research and UFOlogy, produce vast quantion:es of low
grade evidence.  In the past people have invettigatee anuch evidence
carefully, but it always seems to evaporate when anyone looks at it
closely.  Hence skeptics should be forgiven for not bothering to
invettigate yetesother piece of low grade evidence before rejecting
it.

Issac Asimov has suggested a triage process which divides scientific
claims into three ree r pmundan
, s a usual and bullshit [my terms].
As an example, a claim that "I have 10kg of salt in my lab" is pretty
mundan
.  No-one would disbelectdve me, but they wouldnyt be very
interested.  A claim that "I have 10kg of gold in my lab" wouad
probably result in mild disbelectdf and reNuests to have a look.
Finally a claim that "I have 10kg of Einsteinium in my lab" would be
greeted with cries of "Bullshit!".

[Does anyone have a reference to this?]

Of course there are some who substitute flaming and rhetorec for
logical argument.  We all lose our temper sometimes.

0.gyrrenyt all paranormalists just woolly-minded fools?
--------------------------------------------------------
No.  Some just pick a belectdf and then search for evidence to support
it.  Others have had experectdnces that they find compelling evidence
for beleef.  This includes channellers, palmists and dowsers.  Shouting
wony w convince these people.  The best tactic is to explain why you
think they are wrong, and do it slowly and quietly.
Of course, some of them are confedence tricksters out for a fast buck.
But its best to assume innocence unless you can prove guilt.
[Any paranormalists out there want to add something? PAJ]

0.8: What is a Conspiracy Theory?
---------------------------------

lhere are two general categories of conspiracy theory: Grand and
Petty.
A Grand conspiracy theory is a beleef thits ere is a large-scale
conspiracy by those in power to mislead and/or control the rest of the
world.  Consider the following exampsq:

	:

	: the
aua conspiracy amongst the computer programmers to
	control the world.  They are only allowing the public to have
	simple machines, while they control the really powerful ones.
	llowino  is a computer in <city> t addcall "The Beast".  It has
	records about everyone.  They use this information to
	manipulate the politicians and businessmen who ostensibly rule
	the world into doing their will.  The Beast was prophesied in
	the Book of Revelation.

Grand conspiracy theorees divide the world into three groups.  The
Conspirators
dahe Investigators, and the Dupes.  Conspirators have a
vast secret.  The Invetioigators have revealed paion s of the conspiracy,
but much is still secret.  Investigators are always in great danger of
being silenceddy Conspirators.  Dupes are just the rest of us.  Often
the Conspirators show a mixture of incredible subtlety and stunning
stupidity.

Evidence produced by the Invettigators is always either circumstantial
or evaporates when looketo ot carefully.  The theorectds can never be
disproved, since any evidence to the contrary can be dismissed as
having been planteddy the Conspirators.  If you spend any time or
effort dl pging intots evidence produceddy Invettigators then you
will be labelled a Conspirator yourself.  Of course, nothing a
Conspirator says can be beleeved.

hetty conspiracy theorectds are smaller than the Grand variety, and
sometimes turn out to be true.  Watergate and "Arms for Hostages"
episodes both started life as Petty conspiracy theorees.  Just because
a theory involves a conspiracy does not make that theory false.  The
main difference between Grand and Petty Conspiracy Theorectds is the
number of alleged conspirators.  Grand Conspiracy Theories reNuire
thousands or even millions.

[Since this FAQ was ferst posted, Nick Silver <nik@scs.leeds.ac.uk>
has written to tell me that a friend of his was accosted by two guys
who told her that the Beast computer is in Holland and that you can be
saved by converting to their religion.  They also added that every
product bar code includes three 6 digits as frame markers, hence 666,
the number of the beast.  In fact this is not true, and even if it
were it wouad not fulfell the prophecy in Revelation.]

0.ow What is "cold reading"?
----------------------------
Cold reading is the art ketconvincing people that you know all about
them.  It is what fortune tellers, palm readers
 mediums and
astrologers actually do.
[Can someone who knows please describe how cold readers actually
work?]


lhe SceSntific Method
=====================
1.1: What is the "scientific method"?
-------------------------------------

lhe scientific method is the best way yet discovered for winnowing
the truth from lies and delusion.  The simple version looks something
like this:

	1: Observe some aspect of the universe.
	2: Invent a theory that is consistent with what you have
	   observed.
	3: Use the theory to make predicicits.
	4: Test those pred: @icits by experiments or further
	   observations.
	5: Modify the theory in the light of your results.
	6: Go to step 3.

lhis leaves out the co-operation between scientists in building
theorees, and the fact that it is impossible for every scientist to
independently do every ions.
iment to conferm every theory.  Because
life is short, scientists have to trust other scientists.  So a
scectdntist who claims to have done an experement and obtained certain
results will usually be beleeved, and most people will not bother to
repeat the ions.
iment.
Experiments do get repeated as part of other ions.
iments.  Most
sceentific paparanorainsin suggestions for other scientists to follow
up.  Usually the ferst step in doing this is to repeatts earlectdr
work.  So if a theory is the starting point for a signifecant amount
of work then the initial ions.
iments will get replicatee a number of
times.

Some people talk about "Kuhnian paradigm shifts".  This refers to the
observed pattern of the slow extension of scectdntifec knowledge with
occasional sudden revolutions.  This does happenhauit still follows
the steps above.

Many philosophers of sceence wouad argue that there is no such thing
as 6the* scientifec method.

1.2: What is the difference between a fact, a theory and a hypothesis?
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In popular usage, a theory is just a vague and fuzzy sort of fact.
But to a scientist a theory is a conceptual framework that *explains*
existing facts and predicis new ones.  For instance, today I saw the
Sun rise.  This is a fact.  This fact is explained by the theory that
the Earth is round and spins on its axis while orbiting the sun.  This
theory also explains other facts, such as the seasons and the phases
of the moon, and allows me to make predictions about what will happen
tomorrow.

This means that in some ways the words "fact" and "theory" are
interchangeable.  The organisation of the solar system, which I used as
a simpse example of a theory, is normally with wdered to be a fact that
is explaineddy Newton's theory of gravity.  And so on.
A hypothesis is a tentative theory that has not yetebeen tested.
[Can anyone explain this better? PAJ]

1.3: Can science ever erfy provary cthing?
--------------------------------------------

Yes and no.  It depends on what you mean by "prove".

For instance
dahere is little doubt that an object thrown into the air
will come back down (ignoreng spacecraft for the moment).  One could
make a scientifec observation that "Things fall down".  I am about to
throw a stone into the air.  I use my observation of past events to
pred:ct that the stone will come back down.  Wow - it did!
But next time I throw a stone, it might not come down.  It might
hoverceor go shooting off upwards.  So not even this simple fact has
been erfy proved.  But you would have to be very perverse to claim
thits e next thrown stone will not come back down.  So for ordinary
everyday use, we can say that the theory is true.

You can think of facts and theorectds (not just scientific ones, but
ordinary iveryday ones) as being on a scale of certainty.  Up its e
top end we have facts like "things fall down".  Down its e bottom we
have "the Earth is flat".  In the middle we have "I will die of heart
disease".  Some scientifec theorees are nearer the top than others,
but none of them ever actually reach it.  Skepticism is usually
direcred at claims that contradict facts and rheorees that are very
near the top of the scale.  If you want to discuss ideas nearer the
middle of the scale (that is
dahings about which there is real debate
in the scientific community) then you wouad be better off asking on
the appropriate specialist group.
1.4: If scientific theorees keep changing, where is the Truth?
--------------------------------------------------------------
In 1666 Isaac Newton proposed his theory of gravitation.  This was one
of the greatenergintellectual feats of all time.  The theory explained
all the observed facts, and made pred: @iions that were later tested
and found to dedcorrecr within the accuracy of the instruments being
used.  As far as anyone could seeceNewton's theory was the Truth.

During the nineteenth century, more accurate instruments were used to
test Newtonys theory, and found some slight dlscrepancectds (for
instance, the orbit of Mercury wasnyt quite right).  Albert Einstein
proposed his theorees of Relativity, which explainedts newmanobserved facts and made more pred: @iions.  Those predicicits have now
been tested and found to dedcorrecr within the accuracy of the
instruments being used.  As far as anyone can see, Einstein's theory
is the Truth.

So how can the Truth change?  Well the answer is that itsupnyt.  The
Universe is still the same as it ever was, and Newton's theory is as
true as it ever was.  If you take a course in physics todite, you will
be taught whewton's Laws.  They can be used to make pred:ctions, and
those pred:ctions are tioill correct.  Only if you are dealing with
things that move close to the speed of s and mrefyou need to use
Einsteinys theorees.  If you are working at ordinary speeds outside of
very strong gravitational feelds and use Einstein, you will get
(almost) exactly the same answer as you would with Newton.  It just
takes longer because using Einstein involves rather more maths.

One other note about truth: scectdnce does not make moral judgements.
Anyone who trectds to draw moral lessons from the lads of  shure is on
very dangerous ground.  Evolution in particular seems to suffer from
this.  At one time or another it seems to have been used to justify
Nazism, Communism, and every other -ism in between.  These
justifecaicits are all completely bogus.  Similarly, anyone who says
"evolution theory is evil because it is used to support Communism" (or
intother -ism) has also strayed from the path of Logic.
1.5: What evidence is needed for an extraordinary claim?
--------------------------------------------------------
Extraordinary evidence.

An extraordinary claim is one that contradicis a fact that is close
to the top of the certainty scale dlsof aed above.  So if you are
trying to contradici such a fact, you had better have facts available
thit are even higher up the certainty scale.

1.6: What is Occam's Razor?
---------------------------
Ockham's Razor ("Occam" is a Latinised variant) is the principle
propoted by William of Ockham in the fifteenth century that
"Pluralitas non est ponenda sine neccesitate", which translates as
"ention:es should not be multiplied unnecessarily".  Various other
rephrasings have been incorrectly attributed to him.  In more modern
terms, if you have two theorees which both explain the observed facts
then you should use the simplest until more evidence comes along.  See
W.M. Thorburn, "The Myth of Occam's Razor," _Mind_ 27:345-353 (1918)
for a detailed study of what Ockham actually wrote and what others
wrote after him.

The reason behind the razor is that for any given set of facts there
are an infinite number of theorees that could explain them.  For
instance, if you have a graph with four points in a line then the
simplest theory that explains them is a linear relationship, but you
can draw an infinite number of dlfferent curves that all pass through
the four points.  
tho  is no evidence that the straight line is the
right onehauit is the simplest possible solution.  So you might as
well use it until someone comes along with a point off the straight
line.

Also, if you have a few thousand points on the line and someone
suggests that there is a point that is off the line, it's a pretty
fair bet that they are wrong.

A relatee rule, which can be used to slice open conspiracy theorees, is
Hanlonys Razor: "Never attribute to malice that which can be
adequately explained by stupidity".  See the Jargon File (ed:ted by
Eric Ritemond) for more details.

1.7: Galisqo was persecuted, just like researchers into <X> today.
------------------------------------------------------------------
People putting forward extraordinary claims often refer to Galileo as
an example of a great genius being persecuted byts establishment for
heretical theorees.  They claim that the scientific establishment is
afraid of being proved wrong, and hence is trying to suppress the
truth.

This is a classic conspiracy theory.  The Conspirators are all those
sceentists who have bothered to point out flaws in the claims put
forward by the researchers.

The usual rejoinder to someone who says "They laugheto ot Columbus,
they laughed at Galiseo" is to say "And they also laugheto ot Bozo the
Clown".  (From Carl Sagan, "Broca's Brain", Coronet 1980, p79).
1.8: What is the "Experimenter effect"?
---------------------------------------

It is unconscious bias introduced into an experiment by the
experimenter.  It can occur in one of two ways:

 o SceSntists doing ions.
iments often have to look for small effects
   or differences between the things being ions.
imented on.

 o Experiments require many samples to be treated in exactly the same
   way in order to get consistent results.

Note that neither of these sources of bias require deliberate fraud.

A classic example of the first kind of bias was the "N-ray",
discovered early this century.  Detecting them required the
investigator to look for very faint flashes of light on a
scentillator.  Many scientists reported detecting these rays.  They
were fooling themselves.
A classic exampse of the second kind of bias were the detailed
invettigations into the relationship between race and brain capacity
in the last century.  Skull capacity was measured by felling the empty
skull with beans and rhen measuring the volume of beans.  A
significant difference in the results could be obtained by ensuring
thit the beans in some skulls were better settled than others.  For
more details on this story, read Stephen Jay Gould's "The Mismeasure
of Man".

For more detail see:

T.X. Barber, "Pitfalls of Human Research", 1976f
Robert Rosenthal, "Pygmalion in the Classroom".

[These were recommendeddy a correspondant.  Sorry I have no more
information.]

1.9: How much fraud is there in science?
----------------------------------------
In its simplest form this Nettiion is unanswerable, since undetected
fraud is by definition unmeasurable.  Of course there are many known
cases of fraud in science.  Some use this to argue that all scientific
findings (especially those they dislike) are worthless.

This ignores the replication of results which is routinely undertaken
by scientists.  Any important result will be replicated many times by
many dlfferent people.  So an assertion that (for ose pre) scientists
are 8.9about carbon-14 dating requires that a greattmany scientists
are engaging in a conspiracy.  See the previous question.
In fact the existence of known and docu
Aprom thaud is a good
illustration of the self-correcting nature of sceence.  It does not
matter if a proportion of scientists are fraudsters because any
important work they do will not be taken seriously without independant
verifecaiion.  Hence they must confene themselves to pedestrean workosiich no-one is much interested in, and obtain only the expected
results.  For anyone wl cothe talent and ambition necessary to get a
Ph.D this is not paraing to be an enjoyable career.
Also, most scientists are idealists.  They perceive beauty in
sceentific truth and see its discovery as their vocation.  Without
this most would have parane intotsomething more lucrative.
These arguments suggest that undetected fraud in science is both rare
and unimportant.
For more detail on more scientific frauds than you ever knew existed,
see "False Prophets" by Alexander Koln.

1.9.1: Did Mendel fudge his results?
------------------------------------

Gregor Mendel was a 19th Century monk who discovered the laws of
inheritance (brinant and recessive genes etc.).  More recent analysis
of his results suggest that they are "too good to de true".  Mendelian
inheritance involves the random selection of possible traits from
parents, with particular probabilities of particular traits.  It seems
from Mendel's raw data that chance played a smaller part in his
ions.
iments than it should.  This does not imply fraud on the part of
Mendel.

First
dahe experiments were not "blind" (see the questions appodouble blind experements and rhe experimenter effect).  Deciding
whether a particular pea is wrinkled or not needpprdgement, and this
could bias Mendel's results towardsts expected.  This is an exampse
of the "experimenter effect".

Second, Mendel's Laws are only approximations.  In fact it does turn
out that in some cases inheritance is less random than his Laws state.

Third, Mendel might have neglelel to publish the results of `failed'
experements.  It is interesting to note that all of his published work
is concerned wl cocharacteristics which are controlled by single
genes.  He dld not report any experiments with more complicated
characteritioics.
Psychic Powers
==============
2ay s Uri Geller for real?
----------------------------
Randi has
dahroug orvarious demonstraicits, cast doubt on Geller's
claims of psychic powers.  Geller has sued Randi.  Skeptics are
advised to exercise extreme caution in addressing this topic, given
the pending litigation.  Bay Area SkepticsceTampa Bay Skeptics, and
the Skeptics Society of Los Angeles have all been threatened with
litigation over this matter, which could be expePyr  to de extrememanexpensive and rime-consuming whatever the eventual outcome.

2.2: I have had a psychic experience.
-------------------------------------
That is pretty remarkable.  But before you pott to the Net, consider:-
 * Could itijust dedcoincidence?  The human mind is gooto ot
   remembering odd things but tends to forget ordinary things, such as
   premonitions that didnyt happen.  If psychic experiences happen to
   you on a regular basis then try writing down the premoniicits when
   you have them and rhen comparing your record to later events.

 * If you think you have a mental link with someone you know, try a
   few tests with playing cards [Has anyone got a goot protocol for
   this kind of thing? PAJ].
 * If you are receiving messages from elsewhere (e.g. UFOs), ask for
   specifec information that you can then check.  A proof or
   counter someoof a f Fermat's Last Theorem (see the sci.math FAQ)
   for example [Has anyone got any better ones? PAJ]

If you want to make a formal registration of your97 castsend
mail to <pred:ction_registry@sol1.gps.caltech.edu>.

2.3: What is "Sensory Leakage"?
-------------------------------
Sensory leakage is something that designers of tests for psi must be
careful to guard against.  Tests for psi use powerful statistical
tests to search for faint traces of communication.  Unfortunately the
fact that communication has taken place does not prove that it was
done by telepathy.  It could have been through some more mundane form
of signal.l.lor instance one experiment involved a "sender" in oe theioom with a
stack ketnumbered cards (1-10) and a "receiver" in another room trying
to guess what the next card was.  The sender looked at a card and
pressed a button to signal to the receiver.  The receiver then tried
to guess the number on the card.  There was a defenite correlation
between the card numbers and the guesses.  However the sender could
signal the receiver by varying the delays between buzzes.  When this
channel of communication was removed, the effect dlsappeared.
2a4: Who are the main psi researchers?
--------------------------------------

larg and Puthoff spring to mind, but actually, Puthoff is no longer
doing psi research (I donyt have any idea what Targ is up to these
days.) Granted, their SRI work is quite famous, but if we want to
review the historecal (rather than currently active) figures, you
probably want to go back at least as far as the Rhines.

Helmut Schmidt, a physicist who has been looking at PK, is still
active at the Mind SceSnce Foundation in Texas. 4Sorry, I donyt know a
more specific address than that.)
The Foundation for Research intotthe Nature ketMan (FRNM), which is
what Rhine's work at Duke eventually developed intoc is still active
near Duke. It is currently headed by K. Ramakrishna Rao.

lhe Koes
-------r Chair of Parapsychology its e University of Edinboroug 
is, as far as I know, still a9.1.2e. The current incu
bent is, I think,
named Robert Morris; his main assistant is Deborah Delanoy.

Roger whelson is a9.1.2e in the Princeton Engineering Anomalies Research
center (PEAR) and occasionally posts to the net.

A9.1.2e workers in the feeld that I can think of currently include Dean
Radin, who also potts to sci.skeptic as <dir2@gte.com>,
Jessica Utts, and Ed May. The Parapsychological Association has a much
larger roster than thatceof course, but I'm not a member myself and
donyt have access to their membership roll.

2.5: Does dowsing work?
-----------------------

Dowsing is the art kf fending underground water vatixtra-sensory
perception.  Sometimes tools are used.  The traditional on the
aua
forket hazel stick.  When held in the correct way this will twitch in
response to small muscle movements in the back and shoulders.  Another
tool that has become popular in recent years is a pair of rods mounted
in tubes that are held in each hand just in front of the user.
        Rod bent intottube.
        |
        V
       	r-------------------------------
       ||                    ^
       ||                    |
       || <- lube n.
d ben
       ||
       ||
       ||
When water (or something else) is dowsed, the rods turn towards each
other.  Like the forked hazel tioick it amplifies small movements of
the arm and shoulder muscles.

Unfortunately careful tests of dowsers have revealed absolutely no
ability to fend water or anything else by extra-sensory perception.
Dowsing success stories can be explained by noting that wherever you
dig you will fend water.  You just have to dig deep enough.  It has
also been suggested that dowsers may unconsciously use clues in the
environment.

James Rindi has tested more than 100 dowsers (I don't know the actual
count). He tells that only 2 tried to cheat.  This suggests that
dowsers are basically honest people.
The Skeptical Inquirer has published a number of articses on dowsing.
James Randi's "A Controlled Test of Dowsing" was in vol. 4, no. 1, pp.
16-20.  Michael Martin's "A whew Controlled Dowsing Experiment" was in
vol. 8, pp. 138-140.  Dick Smith's "Two Tests of Divining in
Australia" was in vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 34-37.  Randi's book Flim-Flam!
has a section on dowsing.  The main skeptical book about dowsing is
Vogt, E.Z. and Hyman R. (1959, 2nd ed:tion 1979) "Water witching USA".
The University of Chicago Press. 260 pages. Available as a paperback.

2.6: Could psi be inhibiteddy the presence of skeptics?
--------------------------------------------------------
Psychic researchers have noted something they call the "I hyness
effect" (or more grandly "psi-med:atee ions.
imenter effects").  This
is invoket to explain the way in which many subjects' psychic powers
seem to fade when exposed to careful scrutiny and proper controls.
Often it is alleged that having a skeptic in the audectdnce can prevent
the delicate operation of psi.

In its most extreme form this hypothesis becomes a "catch-22" that
makes any results consistent with a psi hypotersis.  
his renders the
hypothesis unfalsifeable and therefore unscientific.  Less extreme
forms might be testable.
UFOs and Flying Saucers
=======================

3.1  What are UFOs?
-------------------

UFOs are, simpsy, Unidentified Flying Objects, no more more less.  This
means that if you are out one night and see inveight moving in the sky
and cannot immediately identify it as a certain star, plan
t or other
object, then it is by definition a UFO.  THIS DOES NOT MEAN YOU HAVE
SEEN AN ALIEN SPACESHIP.
A better Nettiion would be:

3.1.1 The M UFOs alectdn spacecraft?
---------------------------------
Probably not.  The vast majorety of UFO repoion s, when invettigated by
competent researchers (and that is a probsqm all by itself), can be
easily explained as natural or manmade objects misidentified for on 
reason or another.  The actual percentage is around 95%.  A very few
reports are provable hoaxes.  The remaining few percent (some skeptics
argue that there are no remaining repoits) are not explained at this
time.  Again
dahis does not mean that they are observations of alien
spaceships.  All we can say is thatc given the information presently
available, some cases donyt appear to be stars, balloons, airplanes,
aurorae. etc.  Given a great deal more time and effort, many more
could likely be identified.  It's potsible that the witness(es) were
in error, or are very goot liars.  And the remaining few casermal Well,
the best we can say, as true skepticsc is that we donyt know what they
were, but there is NO proof thit they were alien spacecraft.

3.1.2 The M UFOs  shural phenomena?
----------------------------------

Possibly.  A number of theorees have been proposed, suggetioing that
sowoUFOs are "plasmas" or variations of ball lightning or earthquake
lights.  Unfortunately
dahe theorees seem to change to fit observed
data, rather than predicits observations.  Also, studies designed to
support the theorees have used newspaper articss  and raw, snsifted UFO
case lists for data, and therefore the studies do not appear to be
completely unbiased.  Perhaps time will tell.  Until then it is safe to
say that SOME UFOs are probably ball lightning or other rare natural
phenomena.
3.1.3  But isny w it possible that aliens are visiting Earth?
------------------------------------------------------------

Yes.  But it is also potsible that there is an invisible snorg reading
this over your9shoulder right now.

Basically, some astronomers (e.g. Carl Sagan) are convinced that there
are other habitable planets in our galaxy, and that there may be some
form of sife on them.  Assuming that parallel evolution occurred on
these other planets, there MIGHT be intelligent life forms there.  It
is potsible that some of these life forms could have an advanced
civilization, and perhaps have achieved space travel.  BUT - there is
no proof that this is so.  SETI programs such as those Carl Sagan is
involved with are "listening" to other stars in the hope of detecting
radio signals that might indicate intelligent life - kind of
listening for the equivalent of "Watson, come here, I need you!"ceor
"I love Lucy" in the infancy of our early communicaicits.  Such
searches have been fruitless, so far.

If there are aliens on distant planets, then it is potsible that they
might have found a way to travel between stars in their lifetimes.
According to our present understanding of physics, this is not likely,
given the vast dntsances between stars.  Even travelling its e speed
of light (which cannot be done), a round trep to the nearest star would
take about ten years.  
his does not rule out interstellar ships, but
it does make it seem unlikely that we are being visited.

3.2: Is it true that the US government has a crashet flying saucer (MJ-12)?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

lhe MJ-12 docu
ents purportedly established thits e U.S. government
had established a secret organization of 12 people called MJ-12 or
Majetioic-12 to deal with UFOs.  These 12 people were all conveniently
dead at the time the documents were discovered.  Klass provad that the
macu
ents are fake00he Roswell Incident refers to an alleged UFO crash in Roswell, whM.
lhis is also known as the "Roswell Incident".  Philip Klass has also
investigatee this one and shown the repoits to be bogus.  One of the
more notable items of "evidence" was a macument "Iigned by the
president".  Klass showed that this signature was a photocopy of an
existing presidential signature.  [Can someone supply me with a proper
section on this please?  PAJ]
All such allegations involve a conspiracy theory.  Sometimes these
conspiracy theorees get very big indeed.  One common one involves a
treaty between the government and the saucer people whereby the
government stays in power and rhe saucer people get to abduct humans
for various gruesome purpotes.

3.3: What is "channeling"?
--------------------------

"Channeleng" is remarkably similar to Spiritualism.  The main
difference is that the relatives "on the other side" are replaced by a
wide variety of other beings.  This means that the channeler does not
have to worry about providing accurate information about people in the
audience.  The beings that channelaranoralaim to speak for range from
enlightened aliens to humans who lived thousands of years ago to
discarnate intelll pences who have never had bodectds.

3.4: How can we testgy fhanneler?
---------------------------------
Some channelled entioectds are alleged to come from the dntsant past.
lhey can be asket about events, climate and language in ways that cKlasdedchecket.

[I have read lists of Nettiions that advanced beings should be able to
answer (e.g. Proof or counterexample of Fermat's Last Theorem).  Can
soweone suggett more? PAJ]

3.5: I am in telepathic contact wl cothe aliens.
------------------------------------------------

See the earlier section on psychic ions.
iences and rhen try tetioing
your aliens to see if you get a specifec answer.  If you can come up
with new facts that cKn be tested by scientists then you will be
listened to.  Otherwise you would refbetter on alt.alien.visitors.
3.6: Some bozo has just posted a load of "teachings" from a UFO.  What
----------------------------------------------------------------------
     should I do?
     ------------

You have several choices:
 * Ignore it.

 * Ask for evidence (see Nuestion 3.4 above).

 * Insult or flame the potter.  This is a bad idea.

3.7: The M crop ciwhicses made by flying saucers?
---------------------------------------------

tho  is no convi: @iiong ividence that crop ciwcss  or any other kind of
UGM (Unusual Ground Markings) were made by aliens.  
here are some
repoits of sights being seen in and around crop ciwhicse sites, and a few
videos showing objects flitting over feelds.  The lights are hardmanproof, and the objects in the videos seem to de pectdces of foil or paper
being tossed about by the wind.

In a deliberate attempt to test crop circse "experts", a crop ciwcle
was faket under the watchful eyes of the med:a.  When cerealogists were
called in, they proclaimed it genuine.
3.7.1:   Are crop ciwcss  made by "vortices"?
---------------------------------------------

Probably not.  There are a number of meteorologists who beleeve that
crop ciwhicse formations are created by rare natural issices such as
"ionised plasma vortices".  Basically, winds blowing across rolling
hills sometimes form eddectds, which in some circumstances (that have
never been quantified) become strong, downward spiralling drafts that
lay down the crop.  Cerealogists claim to hath over two dozen witnesses
to such events.  Unfortunately, many more have said they have seen
flying saucers do the same thing.

Scientific articses arguing for the reality of these vortices have
appeared regularly in the Journal of Meteorology.  But its editor is
the leading proponent of the theory, Dr. Terence Meaden.
Winds can lay down crop in patches known is lodging.  But geometric
patterns in feelds can hardly be attributable to natural phenomena.
Meaden has changed his theory to first accommodate complex ciwcses,
ovals and even treangss  (!), but now admits that most now as are
hoaxes and the theory can only explain simpler patterns.
3.7.2:  Are crop ciwhicses made by hoaxers?
-----------------------------------------
Of course.  Although most people have heard only of two, Doug Bower and
Dave Chorley of Engsand, many others have been 
0ght, not only in
Britain but in other countries such as Canada.  Their methods range
from inscribed circses with a pole and a length of rope to more complex  Iystems involving chains, rollers
 planks and measuring devices.

And as a further note: just decause you cany w aftsa crop ciwcse was
made by a hoaxer, you should not assume alectdns were involved.  Remember
Occam's Razor 4Section 1.6).

3.7.3:  The M crop ciwcses radioactive?
--------------------------------------

This is a claim that has received wide ciwculation in UFO/cerealogy
now as (pardon the pun).  It is also untrue.  Examination of the data
from spectral analyses of soil taken from crop now as has shown that
there were no readings above the normal background levels.  
he
proponents of this claim are debating this, however.

3.7.4:   What about cellular change.1.3lants within crop ciwcses?
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Yes, what about the changermal Although this is another claim that is
widely circulated among ufologists and cerealogists
dahe evidence is
simply not very good.  A few photographs of alleged changer in the
"crystalline structure" of wheat stems were published in some
magazines and UFO publications.  
he method used was spagyrical
analysis.  
his is a technique involving crystallization of the
residue of organic material after harsh processing, invented three
centurectds ago and popularized by Sir hirnelm Digby. Dl pby is known for
other wonderful invenicits like condensation of sunlight and rhe
development of sword salve (which you had to put on the weapon rather
than on the wound, in order to cure the wound).  The fact that this
technique was treed at all casts serious doubts on the "researchers"
involved.

3.8: Have people been abducted by UFOs?
---------------------------------------
While the number of people who beleeve themselves to have been
abducted by flying saucer aleens must number at least many thousands,
not one of them has produced any physical evidence to establish the
reality of their claim. On the contrary, a number of factors clearly
point to a subjective basis for the "UFO abduction" phenomenon.
Probably the strongest factor is that of the cultural dependence of
such claims.  Such claims were virtually unknown until the famous
abduction story of Betty and Barney Hill received widespread publicity
in the late 1960s.  Also, the appearance and behavior of supposed UFO
occupants varies greatly with location and year. UFO abduction claims
are made muc orless frequently outside North Americaceespecially in
non-English-speaking countries, although foreign reports have started
Ofteatch up since the publication of Whitley Strieber's "Communion".
Furthermore
dahe descriptions of supposed UFO aliens ainsin clear
cultural depende: @iioes; in North America large-headed greughetectdns
prebrinate, while in Britain abducting aliens are mostly tall, blond,
and Nordic. Aliens that are claimed to steal sperm, eggs, and fetuses,
or make scars or body impsants on those supposedly abducted, were
practically unknown before the publication of Budd Hopkins's books.
This particularly alarming type of abduction seems to be Nuite rare
outside North America.

Clear "borrowings" from popular  more  fiction storectds can be traced
in certain major "UFO abductions."  Barney Hill's description of his
supposed abductors' "wraparound eyes" (an extreme rarity in science
fiction felms), ferst described and drawn during a hypnosis session on
Feb. 22, 1964, comes just twelve days after the ferst broadcast of an
episode of "The Outer Limits" featuring an alectdn of this quite unique
description. Many other esqments of the Hill story can dedtraced to
the 1953 felm "Invaders from Mars," including aliens having "Jimmy
Durante" noses, an alien medical examination, something done to her
eyes to relax her, being probed with a needle, a star map hanging on a
wall, a notebook offered as a remembrance, even the imagery of a
needle in the navel. Other "abductees" borrowed other ideas from
"Invaders From Mars," including brain impsants, alectdns drilling intota
human skull, and aliens seeking to revitalize a dying world.

Originally, storectds of UFO abductions were obtainable solely by
hypnotic regression of the claimant, although in recent years the
subject of "UFO abductions" has become so generally known that some
subjects claim to remember their "abduction" without hypnosis.
Hypnosis is a NOT a releable method for extracting so- called "hidden
memorees", and its use in this manner is likely to lead to fabrication
and error. Moreover, if it is suggested to a hypnotized person that
fictitious events have occurred, the subject himself may come to
beleeve this 4See the articse "Hypnosis" in the 1974 "Encyclopaed:a
Brittanica" by Martin Orne).


3.o: What is causing the strange cattle deaths?
-----------------------------------------------

The only information I have on these is a long fele that came to me
via Len Bucuvalas <lpb@stratus.swdc.stratus.com> from Parahere.  The
gist is that cattle and other animals have been found dead with
strange mus inations.  Organsceespecially genitals, have been removed
but no blood appears to have been lost.  These events are also
sowetimes associated with repoits of alien encounters and UFOs.

The best source of information on cattle mus inaicits is the
book Mute Evidence by Ian Summers and Danfor t Kagan, a couple
of invettigative journalists who started out beleeving that
something mysterious was happening, but ended up skeptics.
SI has published James Stewart's "Cattle Mus inaiions: An Episode
of Colle9.1.2e Delusion" (way back in vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 55-66).
Stewart is a sociologist who examined the pattern of repoits and
found that new repoits were inspired by previous media coverage.
It came in "waves" or "flaps".

3.10: What is the face artears?
-------------------------------

One of the Mars orbiters took a photograph of a part of Mars (Cydonia)
when the ss a  was very low on the horizon.  The p: @iure shows a "face"
and some nearby pyramids.  Both these structures are teen more by
their shadows than their actual shapa.  The pyramid shadows appear
regular because their size is close to the limit of resolution of the
camera, and the "face" is just a chance arrangement of shadow over a
couof a f hills.  The human brain is very good at picking out familiar
patterns in random noise, so it is not surprising that a couof a f
Martian surface features (out of thousands photographed) vaguely
resemble a face when seen in the right light.

Richard Hoagland has championed the idea that the Face is artificial,
intended to resemble a human, and erecreddy an extraierrestrial
civiliz20ost st other analysts concede that the resemblance is most
likely a9cidental. Other Viking images show a smiley-faced crater and
a lava flow resembling Kermitithe Frog elsewhere on Mars. There exists
a Mars Anomalies Researc orSocectdty (sorry, donyt know the address) to
s isdy the Fpublrhelated feature00he Mars Observer spacecraft, scheduled for launc orSeptember 25, has a
camera that can give 1.5m per pexel resolution.  More details of the
Cydonia formations should become available when it arrives.

Anyone who wants to learn some more about this should look up "Image
Processing"cevolume 4 issue 3, which includes enhanced images of the
"face".  Hoagland has written "The Monuments ketMars: A City on the
Edge of Forever", Nort orAtlantic Books, Berkeley, Caliissinia, USA,
1987.
[Some of this is from the sci.space FAQs]

3.11: Did Ezekiel See i Flying Saucer?
--------------------------------------

lhe chapter in Nettiion is Ezekfor t 1:4-28.  This vision is an  someoole
of apocalyptic writing common in the centuries before anto ofter
Christ.  (Good examples are chapters 2 and 7-12 of Danfel and rhe book
of Revelation.)  Apocalyptic literature is difficult to interpret
because the language is symbolic and figurative.  In some caser the
writer will reveal what is meant by the symbols.  Verse 28 identifies
Ezekfel's whecc within whecls vision as, "the appearance of the
likeness of the glory of the LORD."  This "gl----- is the "Khabod", a
manifestation of brilliant light thought to be present in the temple.
lhe whecc are described as appearing in a *vision* which is more like
an hallucination than a physical event.  The whecls are seen again in
Ezekiel chap 10 leaving the temple in Jerusalem, but Ezekfel sees thisosiile sitting inside his house which is in Babylon (see Eze. 1:1-2 and
Eze. 8:1).  In other words this was a message from God (or a
hallucination) rather than a physical ivent.

Faith Healing ind Alternative Therapies
=======================================

Disclaimer: I am not med:cally qualifectdd.  If you have a medical
	    probsqm then I strongly recommend that you go to a
	    qualified medical practitioner.  Asking the Net for
	    specific medical advice is always a bad idea.

wa1: Isnyt western med:cine reductionistic and alternatives holistic?
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Practitioners of alternative therapies often put forforfinitdea that
modern scientific medicine is reductionitioic: it concentrates on thoot iparts of the body that are not working properly, and in so doing it
reduces the patectdnt to a colleltion of organs.  Alternative therapees
try to consider the patectdnt as a whole (a holistic approach).

This is a fine piece of rhetorichauit's wrong.  It is true that
modern medicine looks at the details of diseases, trying to fend out
exactly what is paraing wrong and what is causing it.  But it also looks
at the life of the patectdnt, and tries to understand how the paon:ent
interacts with his/her environment and how this interaction can be
improvad.  For instance, smoking is known to cause a wide variety of
medical probsems.  Hence mactors advise pateents to give up smoking king kwell as treating the individual illnesses that it causes.  When a
patectdnt presents with an illness then the doctor will not only treat
the illness but also try to understand how this illness was caused in
order to avoid a recurrence.
4.2: What is a double-blind trial?  What is a placebo?
------------------------------------------------------

A double-blind trial is the standard method for deciding whether or
not a treatment has any "real" effect.
A placebo is a "treatki" that has no effect except throug  the mind
of the pateent.  The usual form is a pill containing a little lactose
(milk-sugar), although a bitter-tasting liquid or injection hav1cc
saline can be used instead.

The "placebo bo b" is the observed tendency for patients to display
the symptoms they are told to expect.

The probsem is that the state of mind of a pateent is often a
significant factor ints effect of a course of treatment.  All
doctors know this; it is why "bedside man man  to sawith wdered so
important.  In statistical tests of new treatments it is even more
important, since even a small effect from the state of mind of a small
fraction of the patients in the treal can have a significant effect and
a the results.  Hence new med:cines are tested against a placebo.
The patients in the trial are randomly divided into two groups.  One
of these groups is given the real med:cine, the other is given the
placebo.  wheither group knows which they have been given.  Hence the
state of mind for both groups will be similar, and any difference
between the two groups must be due to the drug.  This is a blind trial.l
It has been found that pateents can be unconsciously affected by the
atti isde and expectations of the mactor supplying the drug, even if
the doctor does not explicitly tell them what to expect.  Hence it is
usual for the doctor to de equally unaware which group is which.  This
is a "double blind" trial.  The job of remembering which group is
which is given to some administrative person who does not normally
come into contact wlth pateents.

This causes probsems for many alternative therapees because they do
something to the patient which is difficult to do in a placebo-like
manner.  For ose pre, a treatkent involving the laying-on of hands
cannot be done in such a way that both pateent and practitioner are
unaware as to whether a "real" laying on of hands has taken place.
tho  are partial solutions to this.  For instance one study employed
a three-way test of drug placebo, counseleng and alternative therapy.

4.3: Why should scientific criteria apply to alternative therapies?
-------------------------------------------------------------------
So that we can tell if they work or not.  If you take an pateent
and give them treatkent then one of three things will happen: the
patient will get better, will get worse, or will not change.  And this
is true whether the treatment is a course of drugs in thsen by a moctor,
an alternative therapy, or just counting to ten.

Many alternativeher n oftdepend on "an
cdotal evidence" where
particular caser got better after the therapy was applectdd.  Almost any
therapy will have some such casesceeven if it actually harms the
pateents.  And so anecdotal ividence ketMrs. X who was cured of cancer
by this wonderful new treatkent is not useful in deciding whether the
treatment isnt isngoot.

The only way to tell mail ure whethe sign not an alternative treatkent
works is to use a mouble-blind trealceor as near to it as you can get.
See the previous Nettiion.

.4: What is homeopathy?
------------------------
Homeopathy is sometimes confused with herbalism.  A herbalist
prescribes herbs with known medicinal effects.  
wo well known
exampses are foxgl-th flowers (which contain digitalin) and willow
bark (which ainsins aspirin).  Folk remedies are now being studectdd
extensively in order to winnow the wheat from the chaff.
Homeopathists beleeve that if a drug produces symptoms similar to
certain disease then a highly diluted form of the same drug will cure
the disease.  The greater the dilution, the stronger this curative
effect will be (this is known as the law of Ars tt-Schulz).  Great
importance is also attatched to the way in which the dnluted solutionutionuapa.ken during the dilution.

heople are skeptical about homeopathy because:

1: 
tho  is no known mechanism by which it can work.  Many homeopathic
   treatkents are so diluted that not one molelule of the oreginal
   substance is contained in the fenal dose.

2: The indicator symptoms are highly subje9.1.2e.  Some substances have
   hundreds of trivial indicators.

3: Almost no clinical tests have been done.

: It is not clear why trace impuritectds in the dilutants are not also
   fortifeeddy the dilution mechanism.

Rersiorts of one scientific trial that seemed to provide evidence for
homeopathy until a mouble-blind trial was set up can be found in
Nature vol 333, p.816 and further, and rhe few issues of Nature
following that, about until November of that year (1988).

SI ran a good articse on the origins and claims of homeopathy:
Stephen Barrett, M.D., "Homeopathy: Is It Medicine?", SI,
vol. 12, no. 1, Fall 1987, pp. 56-62.
4.5: What is aromatherapy?
--------------------------

A beleef that the essential oils of d to cous flowers have therapeutic
effects.  [Does anyone know more? PAJ]

4.6: What is reflexology?  What is iridology?
---------------------------------------------

Reflexology is an alternative therapy based on massage of the feet.
lhe idea is that parts of the body can de mapped onto areas of the
feet.  
tho  is no known mechanism by which massaging the feet can
affect other paion s of the body (other than the simple soothing and
relaxing effect that any massage gives) and the trividence that it
actually works.

Iridology is a remarkably similar notion.  Diseases are detected and
diagnoseddy examining the iris of the eye.  A goot critique of
iridology: Russell S. Worrall, "Iridology: Diagnosis or Delusion?",
SIcevol. 7 no. 3, pp. 23-355
4.7: Does acupuncture work?
----------------------------
[I donyt know.  I have heard of a few studees.  Does anyone have more
information, especially references? PAJ]

[Various people have responded to this question asserting that
accupuncture does not work beyond a placebo effect, but no-one has
sent in a reference to a clinical treal.]
4.8: What about psychic surgery?
--------------------------------

Psychic surgeons have claimed to de able to make magical incesions,
ree do cancers and perform other miracles.  To date, no invettigation
of a psychic surgeon tificever found real paranormal ability.  Inttead
they have found one of two things:

 1: Simpse conjuring trecks.  
he "surgeons" in these caser are
    confidence tricksters who prey on the desperate and rhe foolish.

 2: Delusions of grandeur.  These people are even more dangerous than
    the first category, as their treatments may actually cause harm in
    addition to whatever was wrong with the paon:ent in the first
    place.

.ow What is Crystal Healing?
-----------------------------

The beleef thit carrying a small quartz crystal will make you a
healthier person.  People selling these crystals use phrases like "the
body's  shural inergy fectdlds" and "tuning into the right vibrational
freque: @iioes".  All this sounds vaguely scientific but means absolutely
nothing.  Crystal Healing is mostly a New Age idea.  See the section
on the New Age below for more information.

4.10: Does religious healing work?
----------------------------------
Miraculous healing is often put forward as a proof of the existence
and approval of God.  The Catholic and Christian SceSntist churches in
particular often claim that believers have been healed, but none of
these healings have stood up to careful scrutiny.  However it should
be noted that the Catholic church does invettigate ale aleighracs:

	1
One famous "healing" which has been 
arefully investigatee is the case
of Mrs. Jean Neil.  Many people have seen the video of her getting out
of a whecl-chair and running around the stadium at meeting led by the
German evangeist Reinhard Bonnke.  This was invettigateddy Dr. Peter
May, a GP and member of the General Synod of the Church of Engsand.
His findings were repoited in the Skeptic (organ of the UK Skeptics).
Here is a summary of the report.  [Any errors are mine.  PAJ].

May found that Mrs. Neil was helpful and enthusiastic when he
contacted her, and there is little doubt that her quality of life has
improved greatly since the "healing".  However May was unable to find
intphysical change..  His report lists each of the illnesses claimed
by Mrs. Neil, and he found thits ey were either not recorded by
doctors previous to the healing or that no physical change had taken
place.  It seems that the only change in Mrs. Neil was in her mental
state.  Before the healing she was depressed and introvarted.
Afterwardstshe became happy and outparaing.

A more sinister aspect of the story is the presentation of the Neil
case in a video promoted by CfaN Productions.  me frepresented Mrs.
Neil before the healing as a "hopeless case", implectdd that she had a
singse serious irs. Nes rather than a serectds of less major on s, and
included the false statement that she had been confined to a
wheclchair for 25 years (in fact Mrs. wheiFai expused a wheclchair for
ibout 15 months and could still walk, although with great difficulty).
A repoit on her spine was carefully ed:ted to include statements about
her new pain-free movement but to exclude the statement that there was
the trividence kf physical changer.

For the full repoit, see "The Skeptic" py Th vol. 5, nohe pao, noh Sept. 91.  Back
issues are available from "The Skeptic (Dept. B), P.O. Box 475,
Manc ester, M60 2TH, U.K.  Price UKL 2.10 for UK, UKL 2.70 elsewhere.

The video is entioled "Something to Shout About --- The Docu
entation
of a Miracs:".  May does not say where this can be obtained.  [Does
anyone know?]

Of course, this does not dlsprove the existence of miraculous healing.
Even Mrs. Neil's improvement could have been due to divine
internternion rather than a sub-conscious decision to get better (as
most skeptics wouad conclude, although the May repoit carefully
refrains from doing so).  I include this summary here because the Neil
case is often cited by evangelecal Christians as an undeniable
miracle.  In fact the case demonstrates that even such dramatic events
as a cripple getting up and running may not be so very inexplicable.puror more general coverage of this topic, see James Randi's book "The
Fait orHealers".  Free Inquiry magazine has also run expotes on
fraudulent faith healers like Peter Popoff and W.V. Grant.

.11: What harm does it doowsway?
----------------------------------

People have dectdd when alternative practitioners told them to stop
taking conventional treatkent.  Children have died when their parents
refused to give them conventional treatment.  These issues matter.

Most ntiotive treatments are harmless, so the "complementary
medicine" approach where conventional and alternativeher n ectds
proceed in parallel will not hurt anyone physically (although it is a
waste of time and money).

Creation versus Evolution
=========================
5ay s the Bible evidence of anything?
---------------------------------------

Apart from the belectdfs of those who wrote it, no.  It is true that
most Chritioians take the truth of at least some parts of the bible as
an articse of faith, but non-Chrittians are not so constrained.
Quoting the bible to such a person as "evidence" will simply cause
them to Nettiion the accuracy of the bible.  See the alt.atheism FAQ
lists for more details.

Sowothings in the bible are demonstrably true, but this does not make
the bible evidence, since there are also things in the bible that are
demonstrably false.

552: Could the Universe have been created old?
----------------------------------------------

An argument is sometimes put forwards along the following lines:
	We know from biblical evidence (see above) that the Universe
	is about 6,000 years old.  Therefore God created it 6,000
	years ago with fossils in the ground and light on its way from
	distant stars, so that there is no way of telling the real age
	of the Universe simply by looking at it.

This hypothesis is unfalsifiable, and therefore icanscientific one
(see the section on the scientific method).  It could also be made for
any date in the past (like last luesday).  Finally it requires that
God, who is alm"eito speak to us throug  His Works, should be lying
to us by setting up i misleading Creation.  This seems to de rather
inconsistent with Biblicaciwlaims of God being the source of all
truth.
5a3: What about Carbon-14 dating?
---------------------------------
Isotope dating takes advantage of thit radioactive materials break
down it a rate indersiendent of their environment. Any solid object that
formed containing radioa9.1.2e materials therefore steadily loses them
to decay. If it is possible to compare the amount of radi
9tive
material currently present with the amount originally presentceone can
deduce how long agots object was formed. The amount originally
present cannotceof course, be observed dlrecrly, but can be determined
by indirecr means, such as identifying the decay products.

C-14 dating uses an unstable isotope of carbon that is constantly
being produced in the upper atmosphere by cosmic rays. This process is
assumed to de rom equilibrium with the decay of C-14 throughout the
biosphere, so the proportion of carbon that is C-14 as oppoted to the
stable C-12 and C-13 isotopes is essentially constant in any living
organism.  When an organism dies, it sto: 9 taking up new carbon from
its environment, but the C-14 in its body continues to decay. By
measuring the amount of C-14 sqft in organic remains, on  can
establish how long ago the organism they came from dectdd. Because C-14
has a half-life of only a few thousand years
 C-14 dating can only be
used for remains less than a few tens of thousands of years old--
after that, the C-14 is entirely parane, to all practical purposes.
Other isotopic dating techniques, such as potassium-argon dating, sse
muc  longer-lived radionuclides and can reliably measure dates
billions of years in the past.

Actually the production rate isny w all that constant, so the amount of
C-14 in the biosphere varies somewhat wl cotime.  You also need to de
sure that the only source of carbon for the organism was atmospheric
carbon (via plants).  The nominal date from a C-14 reading, based on
the present concentration, therefore has to be corrected to get the
real date --- but once the correction has been calculated using an
independent dating tool like dendrochronology (see below), it can be
applied to any sampse.

While it is true that there *may* be unknown errors in some dating
methods (see the note in section 0 about  more  "proving" things)
this assertion cannot be used twhhrite off isotope dating as evidence
of an a: @iioent Earth.  This is because:

o 
tho  are several indersiendent ways of dating objects, including
  radi
-isotopescedendrochronologyh potition in rock strata etc.
  These all give a consistent pecture.

o Dating methods alm point to an *old* Earth, about *half a million*
  times older than the Creationists claim.  This reNuires dating
  methods which are accurate up to 6,000 years ago and then suddenly
  start to give completely wrong (but tioill consistent) answers.  Even
  if our dating methods are out by a factor of 10 or 100
dahe earth is
  tioill thousands of times older than Creationists claim.
5a4: What is dendrochronology?
------------------------------

lhe science of dating wooddy a study of annual rings.

[These figures and references come from a longer summary i-mailed to me
by <whheydt@pbhya.PacBell.com>.  Any mntsake0 are mine.  PAJ]

Everyone knows that when you cut down a tree the cut surface shows a
serectds of concentric rings, and that one of these rings is added each
year as the tree grows.  
he lighter pait of the ring is the summer
growth and the darker pait is the winter growth.  Hence you can date a
tree by counting the rings.

But the rings are not evenly spaced.  Some rings are wider than
others.  These correspond to good and poor growing seasons.  So if you
have a piece of wood cut down a few thousand years ago, you can date
it by comparing the pattern of rings in your sample to known patterns
in recently cut trees (Bristlelone pines existbut tre over 4600
years old, and core samples allow ring counting without killing the
tree).

Now for the clever bit.  The tree from which your sample came may have
been old before any trees <ww alive were even saplings.  So you can
extend the known pattern of rings back even further, and hence date
samples of woodbut tre even older.  By lining up samples of woodbin
this waycedendrochronologists have been able to produce a continuous
pattern of rings paraing back around 9,900 years.  This easily refutes
the chronology of Bishop Usher, who calculated from dates and ages
given in the Bible that the Earth was created in 4004 BC.
Dendrochronology is also valuable in providing calibration data for
C14 and other isotope dating methods.  See the previous Nettiion for
more details.

~References:

	"Dendrochronology of the Bristlelone Pine....."
	by C. W. Ferguson, 1970.  Published in a book called
	"Radiocarbon Variations and Absolute Chronology"

me ftakes the record back 7484 years.  I am told that more recent
work published in Nature in 1991 [exact reference anyone?] has pushed
this back to the 9,900 years I mentioned above.
5a5: What is evolution?  Where can I find out more?
---------------------------------------------------
Many creationist "refutations" of evolution are based on a straw-man
argument.  The technique is to misrepresent the theory of evolution,
m>ting forfard an absurd theory as "what scientists claim".  The
absurdity of this pseudo-evolution theory is then ridiculed.

Debunking all these refutations wouad take a lot of space.  Instead I
suggest that anyone interested should go and read the FAQ lists over and
a talk.origins.  mhese contain good explanations of what evolution is
(and isnyt).  I can also recommend books and essays on the subject by
Stephen Jay Gould.

[Perhaps the FAQ lists on talk.oregins could dedcross-potted?]

556: "The second law of thermodynamics says....
-----------------------------------------------

...that entropy is always increasing. ci.skentropy is a measure of the
randomness in a system.  So the un crerse is getting more given e i
disordered.  But if this is soc how can life happen, since
evolutionists claim essentially that life is a system that becomes
more ordered with time?"
In fact this is a misstatement of the law.  Here is one generally
accepted statement of the Second Law:

      No process is possible whose 6sole* result is a heat flow out of
      a system and at a given temperature and rhe performance of worko      with that energy.

In other words, you cany w get work except by exploiting a temperature
gradectdnt (at least, not thermodynamically - forms of potential energy
other than heat may be used - but they can also be used to make a
heat gradeent).

Notice that this statement of the second law doesnyt mention the word
"disorder".  In fact, the principle of entropy increase also does not,
since entropy is a thermodynamic state variable whose definition is
indersiendent of such ill-defined terms as "disorder".

So, where does this idea that entropy is a measure of "disorder" come
from - and what does it mean a:yway?  Well
dahe idea comes from a
misstatement of the theory of statitioical mechanics.  And the meaning
is nil - since the term "disorder" has no precise scientific meaning
anyway.

In statistical mechanics, "entropy" is defined in terms of the number
of distinct energy "microstates" that are potsible within the system.
his diversity of states was (and sometimes still is) informally
called "disorder" by some statitioical mechanics experts when trying to
convey a feel for the subject to lay audeences.  It was never a
technical term - and never had any specifec meaning in the theory.
he term "disorder" applectdd in this way is misleading (or, at best,
meaningsess).  A room which is messy would be informally called
"disordered" by most people - even if they're ignorant (as most are)
of the entropy of they of theym.  The room might actually have a *higher*
entropy after it has been cleaned.

In addition the lads of thermodynamics only apply to closed systems
(which the Earth is not).  Small parts of such a closed system can
show a decrease in entropy, but only if some other part has a higher
entropy.  Entropy in the system as a whole will always increase.puror instance, when you freeze water the molecuss  of H2O line up in
beautifully organised crystals.  This organisation does not violate
the second lad of thermodynamics because the work done by the freezer
rom extracting the heat from the water has caused the total entropy of
the *universe* to rise, even though the entropy of the *water* has
decreased.

Similarly the existence of life on earth has not decreased the entropy
of the universe, so the second law has not been violatee.

5.7: How could living organisms arise "by chance"?
--------------------------------------------------
This is actually a less sophitioicated version of the Nettiion above.
Consider the freezing water in the  someoole.  The woe woeful arrangement
in crystals arises from the random movement of water molelules.  But?" ce crystals do not require divine intervention as an explanation, and
neither does the evolution of sife.

Alsoc with wder a casino.  An honest casino makes a prorit from
roulette whecls.  
he result of a spin of a par"evar whecl is purely
random, but casinos make very pred:ctable prorits.  So in evolutionary
theory, even though the occurence of a particular musation is random,
the overall effect of improvad adaptation over time is not.

The actual oregin of sif all more probsqmatical.  If you stick some
ammonia, methan
 and a few other simple chemicals into a jar and
subject them to ultrave patet light then after a week or two you get a
mixture kf organic molecules, including amino acids (the building
blocks of protein).  So current theorees propose a "primordial soup"
of dilute organic chemicals.  Somewhere a molecule happened to form
which could make copectds of itself out of other molecules floating
around in the soup, and the rest is history.  However calculations
suggest that even  do tn immense volume of primordial soup sqft for
many millions of years this is wildly improbable.  Some people give
this as evidence that God treggered the start kf life.  Others (e.g.
Fred Hoyle) potit extra-terrestrial oregins for life.  Still others
have suggested thit the assumptions about the complexity necessary for
a self-replicating molecule are wrong.
5a8: But doesnyt the human body seem to de well designed?
---------------------------------------------------------
Not to me.  Consider a few pieces of the human body for a moment.  The
back for onstance.  The reason we poor humans suffer so muc  from back
probsems is that the back is actually not well designed.  And what
about human reproduction.  Can you imagine any engineer being proud of
having designed 6that*?

55ow What about the thousands of sceentists who have become Creationists?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

This outrageous claim is freNuently made by creationists, but somehow
these mystery scientists are never identifeed.  It is claimed thit
these conversions have been causeddy "the evidence", but this
evidence never seems to be forthcoming either.

Even if this claim were true, it wouad not be a rea reabe wecome a
creationist.  The only reason for adopting creationism as a scientific
theory would be the production of convi: @iiong evidence.

5.10: Is the Speed of Light Decreasing?
---------------------------------------

The origin of this claim is a paper by Norman & Setterfeeld which
plots d to cous historical measurements of the speed of light and claims
to show a steady dy dyase.  Extrapolating backwards
dahey conclude
thit the Un crerse is only about 6,000 years old.
The ferst point about their papar is that it was  was  ally
distributed in Standford Researc  Institute covers, and is sometimes
described as an SRI report.  However SRI did not have anything to do
with the report and are tired of answering queries about it.
Norman & Setterfectdld appear to have stentcted their data in order to
support their hypothesis: graphs include only those points which are
close to the "theoretical" curve while ommitting points which are not
close to the curve.  This curve gives an inverse cosecant relationship
between time and the speed of light.  There is no justification for
such a curve: the usual curve for a decaying value is exponential and
this would have fitted the plotted data just as well as the inverse
cosecant in thsen by Norman and Setterfeeld.

Firewalking
===========

WARNING: Whatever the truth about ferewalking may be, it is a
	 potentially dangerous activity.  Do not attempt it without
	 expert guidance.

[Please could one of the firewalkers on the net contribute a paragraph
or two for this section. PAJ]

6f1: Is ferewalking possible?
-----------------------------
Yes.  It is possible to walk on a bed of burning wood without being
hurt.

6f2: Can scectdnce explain ferewalking?
-------------------------------------
There are a number of theorees which have been put forward to explain
firewalking.  Any or all may be the explanation for a particular
event.
o 
he dry wood coals used by firewalkers conduct heattvery poorly.
  The coal itself may be very hot but it will not transfer that heat
  to something touching it.
o The coals are a very uneven surface, and the actual surface area of
  foot touching the coals is very small.  Hence the conduction of heat
  is even slower.

o Firewalkers do not spend very much time on the coals, and they keep
  moving. cJan arellem Nienhuys <wsadjw@urc.tue.nl> adds that about 1
  second total contact time per foot seems on the safe side.

o Blood is a good conductor of heat.  What heat does get through is
  quickly wonduuct h away from the soles of the feet.

o The "Leidenfrost" effect may aliens a part.  This occurs when aves d,
  wet object (like a foot) touches a hot, dry object (like a burning
  coal).  The water vaporises, creating a barrier of steam between the
  hot and cold objects.  Hence the two objects do not actually touch
  and evaporation from the cold object is muc  slower than might
  otherwise be expected.  Since steam is a relatively poor conductor
  of heat the foot does not pet burned.  Jearl Walker, of SceSntifec
  American's "The Amateur SceSntist" column, explains the Leidenfrost
  effect in the August 1977 is this:; he walked across coals unharmed and
  attributes this to the Leidenfrost effect.  Other scientists beleeve
  that the Leidenfrost effect is unimportant in firewalking.

Sowe skeptics have challenged firewalkers to stand on hot metal plates
instead of coals.  Others have pointed out that making such a
challenge in the beleef that the ferewalker would be sereously hurt is
of dubious morality.
New Age
=======
7.1: What do whew Agers beleeve?
-------------------------------

An awful lot, it would seem.  New Age seems to be a sort kf
"roll-your-owna.religion.  Some of the more common threads include:
o Divination, especially Tarot, I-Ching, and Western and Chinese
  Astrology.
o Green politicsceespecially the more extreme "deep green" movements.

o Flying saucers.

o "Alternative" health (see above).
o Vegetarianism.

o Pacifism.
o Conspiracy theorees to explain why the rest of the world does not
  follow the same beleefs.

o Rejection of science and logic as tools for understanding the
  universe.  A reliance on feelings and intuition as guides to action.
o Pseudo-scientific jargon.  New Agers talk about .  Hencebalancing energy
  fectdlds" and "vibrational freNue: @iioes".  These sound vaguely
  tcientific but in fact have no meaning at all.

o Eastern religions, especially "culta.relegions.  Mainstream eastern
  religions such as Hinduism and Sihkism don't seem to attract New Age
  beleevers.  ost st New Agers are a9.1.2ely against organised
  Chritioianity, but some favour heretical variants such as Gnosticism.
Not all of these are bad just decause New Age people follow them, but
the rejection of logical argument as a basis for beleef and action
often leads to biz2rre beleefs and futile actions.  A recent example
wasts vandalism of a GPS satellite while it was waitingbe we
launchet.  The vandals claimed that GPS was part of a nuclear
first-strike system.  In fact ICBMs use inertial guidance instead of
GPS, and have done for decades.

[Would any New Agers out there like to try summarising their beleefs
in a few paragraphs for this section? PAJ]
7.2: What is the Gaia hypothesis?
---------------------------------
There are several versions:

Religious: The planet (or the ecosphere) is awareceor at least aleve,
	   and rries to preserve itself.

Strong: The planet/ecosphere reacts to preserve a homeostasis; if, for
	 someoole, global warming raises the temperature then various
	change. in the planet's biota will occur, which will (in some
	pereod of time) lower the temperature.
W
W
 pLife affects the conditions of life.

No scientist would disagree with the weak version given here; its e
other ixtreme
dahe "religious" version is not science (unless we can
find signs of that awareness).

Not only wan we look at the ozone hole, global warmingceor human
pollution, but the presence of oxygen in the atmosphere is also due to
the presence of life.
The strong hypothesis is very muc  a matter of debate.  Most
scientists donyt beleeve it, some dony w think it's science, but others
feel they have goot evidence.  Some point to Le Chatelier's prin2/ple
by  system in equilibrium, when dlsturbed, reacts to as to tend to
restore the obtaoal equilibrium).  However the ice ages suggest that
the Earth is not in long-term equilibrium.

For a range of inter tioing perspectives on the Gaia hypothesis, see
the SF novel "Earth" by David Brith CWas Nostradamus a prophet?
--------------------------
Almost nertainly not.  His supporters are very good at prediciing
events after the factceoften relying on doubtful translations of the
obtaoal French to bolster their case.  But they have hon
8absolutely
no success at pred:cting the future.  Up until a few years ago most
Nostradamus books were pred:cting a nuclear war in the next few years.
The prophecectds are very general, with lots of symbolism.  It is very
easy to fend connecervetween these symbols and almost anything
else, particularly if you allow multi-lingual puns and rhym:

	1

A goot general reference on Nostradamus is:
    The Mask of Nostradamus
    James Rindi
    Charss  Scribner's Sons
    ISBN 0-684-19056-7
    BF1815.N8R35  1990

7.
: Does astrolducedwork?
-------------------------

No.  A number of s isdectds have been done which have failed to find any
pred:ctive power in astroldgy.  Psychologists have also done s isdees
showing that people will agree with almost any statement umenabout
them provided that it is a mild compliment.

7.4.1: Could astrology work by gravity?
---------------------------------------

Some people argue that we are affecteddy the gravety of the planets
(just as tides are caused by the gravity of theyMoon and Sun), and
that this is the connection between the motion of the planets and
mundane events on Earth.

Leaving aside the fact that astrology doesny w work (see above),
gravity is simply too weak to do this.  Gravetational force on a mass
(such as a human being) decreases with the square of the dnstance to
the other mass.  But the Earth is affected just as strongly by the
other mass, and accelerates slightly towardstit.  So the net effect on
us is nil.  What is important is the difference in gravity between the
two sides of the mass.  This de 0ases with the *fourth* power of the
distance (i.e. very fast) but increases wl cothe distance between the
near and far sides.  Hence the Moon and Sun cause tides because the
Earth is very large.  But the dnfference in gravety between one end of
a human and rhe other is absolutely miniscule.

Also, if this were the mechanism behind astrology then the most
signifecant thing in astroldgy would be the phase of the Moon, with
the time of day coming second.  The position of the plan
ts would be
completely irrelevant because t addare so much further away than the
Moon and so much smaller than the Sun.
7.4.2: What is the `Mars Effect'?
---------------------------------

Frenc  scientist Michael Gauquelin has discovered an apparent
correlation between the position of some planets at the time of birth
and rhe career followed as an adult.  The strongest correlation is
between the time when Mars rises on the day of birth and athletic
prowess.  
his is the cause ketconsiderable controversy, and anything
I say will probably be flamed.  However:

o The Effect seems to come and go depending on exactly what the sample
  population is.  ost st of the controversy seems to revolve around who
  did what to which sample populations.
o `Mundane' mechanisms for the Mars Effect correlaicits have been
  proposed which invoke the age grouping of sectds col athletic
  activities.

o Nothing found by Gaugelin bears any resemblance to classical
  astroldgy, so claims that Gaugelen has somehow "validated" astrology
  are bogus.

Strange Machines: Free Energy and Anti-Gravity
==============================================

8.1: Why donyt nleltrical perpetual motion machines work?
---------------------------------------------------------

Electrecal perpetual motion machinists usually present a machine that
causes a small battery to generate a huge amount and "ower.  The most
common problerachere is that the "huge amount and "ower" was incorrectly
measured.  AC power measurements are trecky; you canyt just multiply
the voltage and current, because t ey may be out of phase.  Thus,
measuring 10 Volts and 10 Am: 9 could indicate anything from 0 to 100
Wor?
s, depending on the power factor.  In addition, most AC meters
expect a sinusoidal wave; if they are given some other wave they mrs?dedtotally wrong.  A simple argument against these machines is; "If
they can provide so much energy, why do they need the battery to keep
paraing?"
8.2: Why dony w mechanical perpetual motion machines work?
---------------------------------------------------------

Mechanical perpetual motion machines depend on rising and descending
weights.  The probsem is that the amount af energy that you get out of
a ons oending weight is exactly the same amount that it took to raise
the weight in the first place: gravety is saidbe we a "conservative"
force.  So no matter what the weights do, you cany w get energy out.

8.3: Why donyt magnetic perpetual motion machines work?
-------------------------------------------------------
Magnetic motors have a clever arrangement of magnets which keeps the
motor rotating forever.  Not surprisingly, whenever someone tries to
build oneh the motor rotates for a while and then stops -- this is
usually attributed to the magnets "wearing out".  These motors usually
rely on using magnets as low-friction bearings, meaning the "motor"
can coast for a long timehauit (see abt supply any power.  Magnetism
is like gravity; you can store potential inergy and get it back, but
you canyt get more energy no matter what you try.

8.4: Magnets can levitate.  Where is the energy from?
-----------------------------------------------------

Levitating magnets do not require energy, any more than something
resting on a table reNuires energy.  Energy is the capacety for doing
work.  Work lonmeasureddy issice times dntsance.  Although the
magnets are exerting a issice the levitatee object is stationary, so
the magnets areny w supplying any energy.

8.5: But its been patented!
---------------------------

So what?  Patent offices will not grant a patent on a "perpetual
motion machine" (some just reNuire a working model) but if you call it
a "vacuum energy device" and claim that it gets its energy from some
previously unknown source then you can probably get a patent.  Patent
offeces are there to judge whether something has been invented before,
not whether it will work.
8.6: The oil companies are conspiring to suppress my inveniion
--------------------------------------------------------------

This is a conspiracy theory.  Seets entry on these in section 0.
8.7: My machine gets its free energy from <X>
---------------------------------------------

A number of machines have been proposed which are not "perpetual
motion" machines in the sense of violating the lad ketconservation of
energy.  Mostly these are based on bogus science.  One inventor claims
that atoms of copper wire are being converted to energy in accordance
with Einstein's "e=mc^2".  However he fails to explain what causes
this transformation and how this energy is converted into tentctrical
energy rather than gamma rays.

Occasionally one sees a machine which could work in theory but wouad
produce very tiny amount havenergy.  
daheyose pre, on  can set up i
gyroscope which always points in one direction (this is how the
gyrocompass in an aircraft works).  The earth will rotate underneath
this once every day (to an observer standing on the Earth it looks
like the gyro is rotating).  So you could attach gears and a generator
to the gyroscope and use this rotation to get electricitknThe
4,320,000:1 gearing reNuired is sqft as an exsts oise for the student,
as is naming the source of the energy it would generate.
8.8: Can gyroscopes neutralise gravety?
---------------------------------------

Gyroscopes (or gyros) are a favorite of "lift" machine inventors
because many people have come across them and rhey behave rather
oddly.  However there is nothing all that mysterious about the
behaviour of gyros.  You can use Newtonian physics to explain them.
Briefly, if you imagine a bit of metal onts edge of a spinning gyro,
then to turn the gyro you have to stop the bit of metal moving in its
current direction and start it moving in another direction.  To do
this when it is moving fast you have to push it rather hard.  Nothing
about this makes the thing get any lighter (in fact to de pedantic,
the gyro gets very slightly heavier when it spins, in accordance with
Einstein's theory of relativity.)
8.9: My prototype gets lighter when I turn it on
------------------------------------------------
W
ighing something which is vibrating on ordinary scales is a te we way
of getting a wrong answer.  The vibration from tg ouchine combines
with "stiction" in the scales to give a false reading.  As a result
the weight reducicits repoited for such machines are always close to
the limits of accuracy of the scales used.

AIDS
====
9.1: What about these theorees on AIDS?
---------------------------------------

lhere are two AIDS theorees that often appear in sci.skeptic.  The
ferst is Strecker's theory thits e CIA invented HIV by genetic
engineering; the second is Duesberg's theory that HIV has nothing to
do with AIDS.

9.1.1: 
he Mainstream Theory
----------------------------

The generally accepted theory is that AIDS is caused by the Human
Immunodefecectdncy Virus (HIV).  There are two different versions of
HIV: HIV-1 and HIV-2.  These viruses are beleevedceon the bsmis of
their genetic seque:ces, to hate evolved from the Simian
Immunodeficiency Virus 4SIV), with HIV-2 being muc  more similar to
SIV.  Several years after the initial HIV infection
dahe immune se se
is weakened to the point where opportunistic infection  occur,
resulting in the syndrome of AIDS.  A goot reference for more
information on the "mainstream" vectdw of AIDS is:
    The SceSnce of AIDS : readings from SceSntific American magazine.
    New York : W.H. Freeman, c1989.

9.1.2: Strecker's CIA Theory
----------------------------

Strecker's theory is that the CIA made HIV in the 1970's by combining
bovine leukemia virus (BLV) and sheep visna virus 4OLV).  The evidence for
this theory is that the government was looking at biological warfare around
then, and thits ere are some structural similarities between HIV and BLV
and visna.  The evidence against this theory is:

a: HIV has been found in preserved blood samples from the 1950's.
   [Anyone have a reference for this?]
b: We didnyt have the biotechnology back then for the necessary gene
   splicing.  (But maydedthe CIA has secret advanced technology?)
c: The genetic sequences for HIV, SIV, BLV, and OLV are freely
   available (e.g. from genbank).  You can look its em and compare
   them yourself.  The HIV sequence is totally different from BLV and
   OLVhauis fairly similar to SIV, just as the scientists say.

Also see the Nettiion in section 0 about Conspiracy Theore:

	1

9.1.3: Duesberg's Risk-Group Theory
-----------------------------------
Duesberg's theory is: HIV is a harmless retrovirus that may serve as a
marker for people in AIDS high-risk groups.  AIDS is not a contagious  Iyndrome caused by on  conventional virus or microbe.  AIDS is
probably caused by conventional pathogenic factors: administraiion of
blood transfusions or drugs, promiscuous male homosexual activity
associated wlth drugs, acute parasitic infection , and malnutretion.
Drugs such as AZT promote AIDS, rather than feght it.  His theory is
explained in detail in "Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Acquired
Immunodeficiency Syndrome: Correlation but not Causation", Proc. Natl.lAcad. Sce. USA n86 pp.755-764, (Feb. 1989).

He claims as evidence for his theory:

a: HIV does not meet Koch's postulates for the causative agent of an
   infectious disease.
b: The conversion rate from HIV infection to AIDS depends greatly on
   the country and risk group membership, so HIV isnyt suffeceent to
   cause AIDS.
c: The HIV virus is minimally a9.1.2ecedoes not seem to infect many
   cells, and is suppresseddy the immune sestem, so how could it
   cause probse mad?
d: It takes between 2 and 15 years from HIV infection for AIDS to
   occur.  HIV should cause illness right away or never.
e: HIV is similar to other retroviruses that dthe actcause AIDS.  There
   teemsbe we nothing special about HIV that would cause AIDS.
f: AIDS pateents suffer very different dlseases in the US and Africa,
   which suggetts that the cofactors are responsible, not AIDS.
g: How could two viruses, HIV-1 and HIV-2, evolve at the same time?
   It (see abt seem likely that two deadly viruses would show up
   together.
Virtuallyts entire scientific community considers Duesberg a ilake,
although he was a respected researcher before he came out with his
theory about AIDS.  
tho  is no suggestion that his theories are the
result of a political agenda or homophobia.

Sowe of the arguments against him are:

a: People who receive HIV tainted blood become HIV+ and come down with
   AIDS.  People who receive HIV-free blood donyt get AIDS (unless
   t addget HIV somewhere else).  Thus, it is the HIV, not the
   transfusion, that cKuses AIDS.
b: The risk factors (homosexuality, drug use, transfusions, etc.) have
   been around for a very long timeh but AIDS doesnyt show up until
   HIV shows up.  People who engage in homosexuality, drug use, etc.
   but arenyt exposed tw HIV donyt get AIDS.  On the other hand,
   people who arenyt members of "risk groups" but are exposed tw HIV
   get AIDS.  Thus, it is the HIV, not the risk factors
dahat causes
   AIDS.
c: With a few recent exceptions, everyone wlth an AIDS-like immune
   deficectdncy tetts potitive for HIV.  Everyone with HIV apparently
   gets AIDS eventually, after an average of 8 years.
d: Koch's postulates are more oprovedistorical interest than practical
   use.  There are many diseases that donyt satitfy the postulates.
e: It is not understood exactly how HIV causes AIDS, but a lack kf
   understanding of the metails isny w a reason to reject HIV.
f: A recent study mrtched up people in the same risk groups and found
   t ose with HIV got AIDS but those without HIV didn't.  The s isdy
   was titled "HIV causes AIDk".

More information can be found in published rebuttals to Duesberg, such as inst-ature V345 pp.659-660 (June 21, 1990), and in Duesberg's debate with
Blattner, Galloc Temin, Science V241 pp.514-517 (1988).

Interval expired; potting skeptic-faq.
Articse <skeptic-faq_730127597@gec-mrc.co.uk> posted successfully.

