Xref: bloom-picayune.mit.edu alt.sex:103544 news.answers:5202
Newsgroups: alt.sex,news.answers
Path: bloom-picayune.mit.edu!enterpoop.mit.edu!thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu!homer.cs.mcgill.ca!superdj
From: superdj@cs.mcgill.ca (David JOHNSON)
Subject: [alt.sex] FAQ (1/4)
Message-ID: <C0pwEo.ID2@cs.mcgill.ca>
Followup-To: alt.sex
Summary: frequently asked questions for alt.sex
Originator: superdj@binkley.cs.mcgill.ca
Keywords: Parts Intro to c3-3
Sender: news@cs.mcgill.ca (Netnews Administrator)
Organization: SOCS - Mcgill University, Montreal, Canada
Date: Tue, 12 Jan 1993 01:35:12 GMT
Approved: news-answers-request@MIT.Edu
Expires: Wed, 10 Feb 1993 00:00:00 GMT
Lines: 1149

Archive-name: alt-sex/faq/part1
Last-modified: 1 Jan 1993

           THE OFFICIAL ALT.SEX FAQ FILE WITH ANSWERS
           ------------------------------------------

                     (dated January 1, 1993)

PURPOSE OF THE FAQ FILE

Alt.sex receives significantly more traffic than your typical
newsgroup. Readers of this group have more than enough to read
through without having to filter out inappropriate posts. To help
prevent the constant debating of these points, this post serves
as a guide to the Frequently Asked Questions. If you are new to
this group, please take the time to read through this file, even
if only to read the Table of Contents.

This does not mean these things are not subject to further
debate, merely that they HAVE been considered by the readers
here. If you have something significant to add to the subject,
then feel free to post.

Every effort has been made to keep attributions to authors in
this FAQ file as accurate as possible when available. In many
cases however, the name of the original poster has been lost
through repeated transfers. I have corrected typos and other
errors as I come across them but some slip through, nevertheless.

Please send me comments, suggestions, corrections, and possible
additions to:
superdj@cs.mcgill.ca

USING THE FAQ FILE

In order to navigate more easily through this file there are:

1)   separators "-------------------" after most question-answer
     sections;

2)   separators "================..." after main categories;

3)   unique question numbering (i.e., cX-Y is category X,
     question Y.)

Use the search function on your editor (you do have an editor,
right?) to jump to ends of sections by searching for "------" or
"========", and to questions by searching for "cX-Y". If you're
going through this with a newsreader such as rn use the goto
function to navigate through this FAQ. (In rn use the g command.)
The Table of Contents lists all questions covered in the FAQ.

Thank you for your support.

Editor of the FAQ file,
-David Johnson
 superdj@cs.mcgill.ca

[License is hereby granted to republish on electronic media for
which no fees are charged (except for the media used), so long as
the text of this copyright notice and license are attached intact
to any and all republished portion or portions.]

CHANGES (Jan 1)
- added "Where can I find additional sex topics on USENET?"

FORMER CHANGES (Dec 1)
- added section on venereal warts.

FORMER CHANGES (Nov 1)
- added "Where can I find this FAQ?"
- added "Where can I find sex-related mailing lists?"

FORMER CHANGES (Oct 1)
- reformatted to 75 characters per line.

=================================================================

TABLE OF CONTENTS:

Category 1.    Alt.sex Terms and Acronyms

Category 2.    Where can I find...?
   c2-1   Where can I find this FAQ?
   c2-2   What versions of the purity test are there?
   c2-3   Where can I get the purity tests?
   c2-4   Where can I find alt.sex stories? are there archive
          sites for them?
   c2-5   Where can I find GIF pictures?
   c2-6   What are good books to read up on?
   c2-7   What stores sell sex-toys, etc.?
   c2-8   Where can I find the archives for alt.sex.bondage &
          alt.sex.stories?
   c2-9   Where can I find the Index to USENET Erotica?
   c2-10  Where can I order from via catalog?
   c2-11  Where can I find sex-related mailing lists?
   c2-12  Where can I find additional sex topics on USENET?

Category 3.    General stuff
   c3-1   What should I do to make (the first attempt at) vaginal
          sex easiest?
   c3-2   What should I do to make (the first attempt at) oral
          sex easiest?
   c3-3   What should I do to make (the first attempt at) anal
          sex easiest?
   c3-4   How does one give a hand job?
   c3-5   What is circumcision and why is it done?
   c3-6   What is the Venus butterfly?
   c3-7   What are the contents of semen?
   c3-8   How much semen and how many sperm are in a single
          ejaculate?
   c3-9   Does what I eat affect the taste of semen/vaginal
          fluids?
   c3-10  What is and where is the G-Spot?
   c3-11  How can females ejaculate?
   c3-12  What about oral/vaginal sex during a woman's period?
   c3-13  What percent of men and women masturbate? and at what
          frequency?
   c3-14  How are the bases defined again? (ie. 1st base =
          kissing, etc.)
   c3-15  What's the average length and width penis?
   c3-16  What can one do about premature ejaculation?
   c3-17  Is it possible for men to be multi-orgasmic?
   c3-18  What are Kegel exercises?
          How can one increase the force of ejaculation?
   c3-19  What are some good positions to try out?
   c3-20  What is the M-spot?
   c3-21  What are blue balls?
   c3-22  Is spanish fly dangerous?
   c3-23  Is it possible to get pregnant from anal sex?
   c3-24  Should I buy a vibrator?
          What kind of vibrators are there?
          Do vibrators 'desensitize' women?
          Can I be replaced by a vibrator?

Category 4.    STDs
   c4-1   How is the AIDS virus transmitted? and what does a HIV
          test show?
   c4-2   What is HPV (human papilloma virus)? Treatment?
   c4-3   The major sexually transmitted disease (STDs) and their
          symptoms (Gonorrhea, Syphilis, Genital Herpes, AIDS,
          Pubic Lice (Crabs), Nonspecific Urethritis (NSU),
          Hepatitis B are covered.)
   c4-4   What are venereal warts? Treatment?

Category 5.    Contraception 
   c5-1   What are the various methods of contraception? and
          their effectiveness rates? and their associated risks
          if any?
   c5-2   What kinds of condoms are there?

Category 6.    Myths

Appendix 1.    List of contributors
Appendix 2.    The Teachings of Kama Sutra

=================================================================

Category 1.    ALT.SEX ACRONYMS AND TERMS

:),:-)  - smiley, indicates humor or sarcasm (many variations
          exist)
69      - mutual oral sex
ASB     - alt.sex.bondage
B&D     - bondage and discipline (consensual)
BTW     - by the way
D&S     - Dominance and Submission
FAQ     - frequently asked question
IMHO    - in my humble/honest opinion
IMNSHO  - in my not so humble opinion
LJBF    - let's just be friends
MOTAS   - member of the appropriate sex
MOTOS   - member of the opposite sex
MOTSS   - member of the same sex
P&T     - Power & Trust
S&M,S/M - sadism and masochism, SexMagik (consensual)
SO      - significant other

anilingus    - similar to cunnilingus but with the anus
bestiality   - sex with animals
blue balls   - see question c3-21
clitoris     - the most sensitive external female sex organ (for
               approximate location, see diagram in c3-10, second
               article)
cunnilingus  - oral sex involving the vulva
dental dam   - a piece of latex placed over the vulva during
               cunnilingus to protect both partners from STDs.
fellatio     - oral sex involving the penis
fisting      - inserting a whole HAND into either the vagina or
               the anus
gerbiling    - the activity of Urban Legend status regarding the
               insertion of a gerbil or similarly-sized rodent
               into the anus
ObSex        - Obligated Sexual Comment/Reference; inserted at
               the end of some posts which otherwise have very
               little to do with sex
rimming      - similar to anilingus but with the "rim" of the
               anus
safeword     - the code phrase or word used in any sort of
               B&D/S&M activity that really means "Stop NOW."
water sports - sex involving urine or urination (also "scat", sex
               involving feces.)

=================================================================

Category 2.    WHERE CAN I FIND...?

c2-1.     Where can I find this FAQ?

     First of all, look for it in alt.sex and news.answers 

     If you can't find it there, you can find the (hopefully)
     latest version via ftp at:
     pit-manager.mit.edu
     in /pub/usenet/alt-sex/faq

     If you need help in using or getting started with FTP, send
     e-mail to:
     mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu with
          send usenet/news.answers/ftp-list/faq

     in the body.

---------------------------------------

c2-2.     What versions of the purity test are there?

The versions:

70   ---  Ronnie Geller Immorality Quiz
75   ---  "For those with really low scores on the other
          versions"
100MF---  Allegedly the original MIT version; one test for guys,
          one for gals
100a ---  Rice Version
100b ---  Unknown origin; obtained via CMU
100c ---  From a Penthouse column Sept 1989
100d ---  Ricket's House Purity Test
100e ---  Unknown origin; obtained vi Uga
100f ---  Dabney House Purity Test (Cal Tech)
100g ---  Official Lloyd House Women's Purity Test (22-Aug-78)
100h ---  The Ivory Snow (Job) Purity Test (almost the same as
          100a)
132  ---  For those who got over 80% on the other versions
200  ---  Condensation of the 500; obtained via JHU
225  ---  The Unisex Experience Test
247  ---  First CMU version
350  ---  For those with ***REALLY*** low scores on the other
          versions
400  ---  Apparently, a differently formatted version of the 400a
          -- but, since it is not formatted as well, I'm guessing
          it came out first.
400a ---  Second CMU version
400b ---  Anti-Celibacy League Version
400c ---  PSU version
425  ---  Third CMU version
500  ---  Yale/Dartmouth version
600  ---  SUNY Potsdam/Clarkson version
800  ---  Purities and Improprieties Test -- from somewhere in
          the DC area
1000 ---  Origin uncertain; Colorado State?
1000a---  Pervert's Anonymous qualification form (Oregon State
          version)
1000b---  Same as 1000a, minor revisions, easier to print.
1500 ---  You thought the 1000 was bad? You ain't seen nothing
          yet!
BBS  ---  Modified 1000 designed for interactive taking on a BBS
bi   ---  For bisexuals only. Doesn't give you a percentage like
          standard tests do. It is designed to (quote) "be taken
          by bisexuals to tickle their fancy"

-------------------tests you need software for-------------------

HyperCard
HyperCard 1000 question test
500.tex --- Needs a (La)tex reader. Reader available via FTP from
oak.oakland.edu in /pub/msdos/tex (at the time of making this
file)
500.el  --- An Emacs lisp program. You need an emac compiler.-

-----------------Other purity test related files-----------------

brain.damaged  --   (are you?)
compatibility  --   compatibility test for partners
decadence      --   stolen straight from Cosmo, female oriented
hacker.128     --   Computer Purity Test
hacker.512a    --   The hacker test -- written by Felix Lee, John
                    Hayes, and Angela Thomas, and in the form of
                    a datafile readably by the purity test
                    program (written by Eric Lechner)
hacker.512b    --   Same as above -- more readable by us human
                    beans
jock.100       --   The Jock Test
math           --   Math Purity Test (Harvard)
mundane.100    --   The Mundanity Test -- (as far as I know,
                    credits go to polgara@bucsf.bu.edu) (Rutgers)
mundane.200    --   (2.0 -- 12-01-1990)
nerd.100a      --   The nerd test
nerd.100b      --   The nerd test -- Squid version
nerd.200       --   The nerd test  (2.1 -- 3-12-1992)
net            --   Usenet Purity Test
redneck        --   application form to live in Festus, Missouri
roadkill.232   --   The Unisex, Roadkill Purity Test
tree           --   Purity test family tree
party          --   How to have a purity test party

---------------------------------------

c2-3.     Where can I get the purity tests?

Anonymous FTP sites:

You may want to check out the ftp sites from the archie database
at archie.mcgill.ca:

ocf.berkeley.edu
     Location: /pub
          DIRECTORY drwxr-xr-x     1024   Feb 27 03:20  purity

quartz.rutgers.edu
     Location: /pub
          DIRECTORY drwxr-xr-x     512    Jan 19 00:09  purity

watserv1.waterloo.edu
     Location: /misc
          FILE -rw-r--r--          50537  Mar 28 1989   purity

deja-vu.aiss.uiuc.edu
     Location: /misc/fun
          DIRECTORY drwxr-xr-x     512    Mar 17 16:17  test

If the archives do not have the version you are looking for or
are not available to you, then you may ask the following people,
who have volunteered their services in e-mailing out purity
tests.

Please do not abuse their kindness. The above list of purity
tests is a composite, so not all distributors will necessarily
have every test. Ask around. (If you wish to be included in this
list, mail me.)

When asking for purity tests, specify which versions. The tests
will be provided in ASCII format unless otherwise noted.

Purity test contacts:
  1) blair@cs.columbia.edu (Blair Seidler)
  2) smithd@PROFESSOR.ENG.TULANE.EDU (David Smith)
     (has test in both ASCII and MS Word formats)
  3) carlb@inex.seanews.wa.com (Carl Boernecke)
  4) hagman@crs.cl.msu.edu (Tim Hagman)

---------------------------------------

c2-4.     Where can I find alt.sex stories? are there archive
          sites for them?

If you are just looking for stories in general, check the
newsgroups alt.sex.stories and rec.arts.erotica FIRST. Many
stories are also cross-posted to alt.sex.

As for story archives, well, there used to be a few.
Unfortunately, due to misuse by people, they are no longer
around. In this section we used to mention a couple but they both
shut down for the same reasons: irresponsible, immature, and
greedy users over-used their services. When people misuse a
service offered to them that service generally shuts down.

Therefore, there are currently no known ftp sites for stories or
rec.arts.erotica. If any site ever dares to try to set up a ftp
story archive again people should definitely learn to respect the
system that is offering the archive and respect the wishes of the
archive's maintainers.

There is a mail-server for alt.sex.bondage and alt.sex.stories
right now (see section c2-8), but that service won't last long if
it is misused. Don't try to get the whole archive in one night!

If the newsgroups or archives do not have what you are looking
for the following person has volunteered his services in
e-mailing out alt.sex stories that you may be looking for. Do not
abuse his services.

Alt.sex stories contact:
  1) rsr@soda.berkeley.edu (Roy S. Rapoport)

If anyone else would like to offer their services whether to e-
mail stories or to set up an archive, tell me. That way we can
spread the load around a little.

---------------------------------------

c2-5.     Where can I find GIF pictures?

The newsgroups of the alt.binaries.pictures.* (like
a.b.p.erotica) are your best bet for X and R-rated GIFs. For
pictures more along the line of swimsuit models, check out
wuarchive.wustl.edu via anonymous FTP, in graphics/gif. The
images are arranged alphabetically. Don't abuse the ftp service
or it won't be here next month.

Also in alt.binaries.pictures.erotica are often jpgs and movies.
Read the alt.binaries.pictures.* FAQs for more info.

There is also a list of BBS' containing adult GIF files. The list
is posted to alt.bbs.lists and alt.sex periodically. There are
several hundred BBS' listed.

---------------------------------------

c2-6.     What are good books to read up on?

   "Man's Body: an owner's manual"
   "Woman's Body: an owner's manual"
   "More Joy of Sex"

   Elf's (elf@halcyon.com) recommended reading list includes:

   "The New Our Bodies, Ourselves."
    The Boston Women's Health Book Collective, 1984.

I don't care what sex you are, male or female, BUY AND READ THIS
BOOK COVER TO COVER!  If you feel it is necessary, ignore the
feminist attitudes taken in the political sections of the book
and rely on the technical details.  Although it was written
before the age of AIDS, NorPlant, and RU-486, it contains
information on every other method of birth control, as well as
articles on abortion, reproductive technology, and sexually
transmitted diseases.  An utterly invaluable book to women and
people who love them.

   "The Joy of Sex," by Alex Comfort

Although these two books have a few problems, they are excellent
introductory material for people who wish to try a few new
things. These books were written in the 1970's and it shows;
homosexual and bisexual issues are under the "Problem" header,
for instance.

   "Delicious Sex" by Gael Greene.

Since I rarely buy "mainstream" sex manuals any more, this one
may be just a typical example.  But it does have fun and sexy
examples.

   "Sex for One," by Betty Dodson.

The best guide to masturbation ever written.

   "Bi Any Other Name"

Is a useful book for people dealing with their own or a loved
one's bisexuality.

   "Coming to Power" by SAMOIS

Although primarily written for lesbians, "Coming to Power" is the
most practical guide to SM I have ever had the pleasure of
reading.

First Aid, physical and emotional safety, personal testimonies,
politics (sigh), and a few hot stories to boot!  Also useful from
the same source, "The Lesbian S/M Safety Manual," not for
lesbians only.

   FICTION:

   "The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty,"
   "Beauty's Punishment,"
   "Beauty's Release."  By Anne Rice, the author of "The Vampire
    Lestat" and "The Witching Hour,"  "The Erotic Adventures of
    Sleeping Beauty," is a wonderfully hot and sexy fantasy for
    anyone willing to spend a few sleepless hours.  Excellent
    bathtime reading.

   "Exit to Eden," also by Anne Rice.  Another sexy SM story,
    this one is set in modern-day New Orleans.

---------------------------------------

c2-7.     What stores sell sex-toys, etc. ?

From: elf@halcyon.com (Elf Sternberg)

There are several different places to buy sex toys. The most
common is the typical "adult" bookstore, where dildoes,
vibrators, and such can be bought. Typically, though, these
places are ugly, dirty, and uncomfortable.

The most common place for people to buy sextoys are lingerie
stores, which usually have a shelf set up to sell vibrators,
oils, body flavourings and paint. (Recommendations- whipped cream
and strawberry jelly are better than anything you could buy in
one of these places).

If you want a _real_ quality vibrator, buy a "body massager" at a
major department store, such as Service Merchandiser or Bests'.
With wall current you've got all the vibration you could ever
need and never worry about battery failure. Just remember to use
lubricant!

See c3-24 for more info on vibrators.

---------------------------------------

c2-8.     Where can I find the archives for alt.sex.bondage &
          alt.sex.stories?

From:   Richard Shetron  multics%acm.rpi.edu@rpi.edu
                         multics@hermes.acm.rpi.edu

My email file server is now up and running. This is a heavily
modified version of the decwrl package by Brian Reid.

The easiest way to get started is to read the rest of this
section and then send email to server@hermes.acm.rpi.edu with the
word help as the first and only word on the subject line.

I will stay about 1-2 weeks behind alt.sex.bondage and
alt.sex.stories. These are the only two alt.sex groups that I
read and am archiving. I am archiving both stories and articles
that I believe to be of general interest to those reading these
two groups.

Anonymous ftp is not available to this machine and is NOT
planned. If you have any questions or problems with the server,
send email to server-admin@hermes.acm.rpi.edu. If you have
trouble getting email to that address, try
multics%acm.rpi.edu@rpi.edu. Anonymous contact via wizvax may be
sent to either wi.5203 or wi.4717@wizvax.methuen.ma.us. DO NOT
use server%hermes.acm.rpi.edu@rpi.edu for server requests.
Requests sent to that address may end up in the bit bucket.

Due to circumstances beyond my control, hardware and/or system
crashes can normally take several days to resolve. If email to
the server or the other contact addresses bounces, please wait at
least one week before retrying. I will try to post service
interruption reports to alt.sex.bondage and alt.sex.stories. I
will also try to spread word on irc in #bondage.

Privacy/system logs: The server logs all incoming requests and
all responses. This information is retained for a few days before
being deleted. I normally check the logs at least once a day to
try and find any server bugs/problems as early as possible. I
don't care who you are or where you are unless you are extremely
greedy in accessing the server.

Anonymous access: None currently, I am discussing this with
wizvax.

---------------------------------------

c2-9.     Where can I find the Index to USENET Erotica?

From:     Ed Stauff      (ed@stauff.uucp)

The "Index of USENET Erotica", also known as the Official
Alt.Sex.Story.Index, is maintained by Ed Stauff (ed@stauff.uucp)
for his own amusement and as a service to the Net. It is an index
to stories posted to rec.arts.erotica, alt.sex, and
alt.sex.stories. It contains a fairly complete listing of
"vanilla" net.erotica; it does not include much S&M/B&D,
bestiality or gay material, due to Ed's own preferences. (This is
not censorship; if you want to index such material, please do
so.) Each listing includes the title (not a filename), author (if
known), size, archive name from rec.arts.erotica (if it has one),
and a brief synopsis/review. Now, listen closely: Ed is *NOT* an
archive site! Requests for stories will be ignored! Got that?
He's not keen on mailing out copies of the Index, either; his net
access is limited and he can't handle dozens of request per week.
He posts it at irregular intervals to alt.sex and
alt.sex.stories; watch for it there.

---------------------------------------

c2-10.    Where can I order from via catalog?

From:     jik@pit-manager.MIT.EDU (Jonathan I. Kamens)

Here's a list of mail-order companies. The comments in
parentheses indicates what the company sells or other notes. Some
of them might not accept catalog orders over the phone, but they
probably all will by mail.

Adam & Eve
1 Apple Court
P.O. Box 800
Carrboro, NC  27510-0800
800-765-2326
(videos, toys, lingerie)

Intimate Treasures
P.O. Box 77902
San Francisco, CA  94107-0902
415-896-0944
(mostly other catalogs)

Leisure Time Products
P.O. Box 827
Gary, IN  46401-9900
800-874-8960
(videos, toys, lingerie)

Mellow Mail
P.O. Box 8000
San Rafael, CA  94912-8000
415-456-1800
(mostly lingerie)

National 96
P.O. Box 35445
Los Angeles, CA  90035
(videos)

Night Classics
P.O. Box 3916
Milford, CT  06460
203-878-8704
(video, toys, lingerie)

Ultra Video
P.O. Box 3812
Milford, CT  06460
203-876-9862

Video Bonanza
P.O. Box 35650
Los Angeles, CA  90035
(mostly videos, a small amount of toys, lingerie, etc.)
(probably the same company as "National 96")

VideoMail
P.O. Box 1550
Madison Square Station
New York, NY  10159
800-334-5474

Volume Video
P.O. Box 35268
Los Angeles, CA  90035
(probably the same company as "Volume Video")

---------------------------------------

c2-11.    Where can I find sex-related mailing lists?

     You can't.

     There have been countless rumours about sex lists, but there
     are none. So please don't ask me if you can get onto my
     mailing list. I don't have a sex-related mailing list.

---------------------------------------

c2-12.    Where can I find additional sex topics on USENET?

     If you're looking for additional topics on sexual wizardry,
     look in the alt.sex.wizards FAQ. Currently, "How does one
     give the Yoni massage?" and "How does one make a simulacrum
     (artificial orifice)?" are exclusive to alt.sex.wizards.

     If you're looking for additional information on bondage/
     dominance or sadism/masochism or many other such interesting
     topics, look in the alt.sex.bondage FAQ.

=================================================================

Category 3.    GENERAL STUFF

c3-1.     What should I do to make (the first attempt at) vaginal
          sex easiest?

FOR THE VIRGIN FEMALE:

1)   Do it in a place where she feels safe, ideally in her own
     bedroom.
2)   Do it at a secure time, when roommates won't come barging
     in, a firedrill is unlikely, etc.
3)   Simulate it in advance:
     a.   Go almost all the way.
     b.   Practice the thrusting motions of sex while fully
          clothed.
     c.   Have her give you a "hand job" so that she will know
          what your body does when you have an orgasm.
     d.   Have a bright lights "show and tell" session, to allow
          you to feel secure around each other's naked bodies.
4)   Plan it, but don't talk about it being planned, on the
     actual day that you do it.
5)   Stretch the vagina out a lot with the fingers in advance. If
     she feels comfortable with the idea, she can even do this
     herself when you're not around.
6)   Remember that it is her day--everything, within reason,
     should be done how she wants.
7)   Spend the day with her beforehand; do something fun but
     generic-- if you do something complicated, it will become
     "your" thing to do together forever, due to the association,
     so make sure it's something you can stand doing again on any
     potential anniversaries.
8)   Have a special dinner before you "start."
     a.   Nothing that can possibly upset the stomach.
     b.   A moderate amount, even if you're nervous. You should
          both stay a little hungry and not feel bloated.
9)   Use plenty of lubricant. I recommend k-y jelly for the first
     few times; after that you may want to consider a slightly
     less slippery but spermicidal lubricant, several brands are
     available commercially.
10)  Entry should be "missionary" style, this leaves the vagina
     as wide open as possible. Some women find that placing a
     pillow under the buttocks enhances this effect, others have
     said it doesn't matter.
11)  If she can do it, she may be best off to do the actual entry
     herself, but many women would rather not.
12)  There's no point in getting it over with right away, since
     it will only hurt the next time, but there is also no need
     to draw it out.
     I'd say 10-30 minutes is a good range, but it is actually
     going to vary a lot depending on the particular couple
     involved.
13)  Take forever, if necessary, before putting it in. Only when
     the woman is really ready should this be done. I'd recommend
     asking verbally, and then interpreting that to see if she
     really means it's time.
14)  Stay with her afterwards. Spend the night, at least. If
     possible, take her to do something spontaneous the next day.
     Discuss what happened if she wants to, many women won't want
     to until some later time.
15)  Encourage her to talk to other women ahead of time to give
     her some idea of what to expect. The unknown means fear,
     fear leads to tension, tension leads to difficulty relaxing,
     and difficulty relaxing leads to pain.
16)  A useful technique, for guys who can do this, is to keep the
     erection soft, at a sort of middling state, and then push
     the penis in with a finger. Then slowly let it harden. This
     will produce a stretching rather than a sudden opening of
     the vagina. If you can't do this, then at least go in slowly
     and gently, "getting it over with fast" is not likely to be
     better.
17)  Be more or less "in love." This is something you can't just
     decide to do, but it can help to wait until you love each
     other.

FOR THE VIRGIN MALE:
(from: Carole Ashmore)

OK. This is on the assumption that he's told you it's going to be
his first (some men tell you *afterward*) and that the two of you
are not first-timers fumbling together. In the both-first-timers
case I recommend strong egos, mutual respect and affection, and a
great sense of humor. Also theoretical knowledge *helps*. Read
the fucking manual. (Sorry I just couldn't resist the play on
words.) I recommend anything by Alex Comfort; THE JOY OF SEX and
THE FACTS OF LOVE are very good.

But on the assumption that he is a virgin and you are
experienced:

1.   There is a socially prevalent notion that men make love and
     women are made love to, so an experienced woman with an
     inexperienced man is going to be gritting her teeth enduring
     his fumbling ineptitude.
     *Actively counter this notion.* Tell him the thought of his
     being a virgin makes it a special and especially delightful
     encounter for you. Tell him the thought of initiating him
     into the joys of love-making is *very sexy for you*.
     Strongly convey the notion that you expect to have a great
     sexual experience based on his attractiveness, his
     enjoyment, and *your* skill. Make him believe that he has no
     responsibility for 'making this work' and can just enjoy it.
2.   Take the initiative physically. You kiss him, don't wait for
     him to kiss you. You start undressing him. You make the move
     in the direction of the bedroom. ETC. On the other hand,
     don't insist on the initiative if he takes it eagerly -- be
     appreciative, encourage it, but don't go limp and assume
     he'll take it from here.
3.   Tell him you find at least one thing about his body
     particularly attractive. Stay away from "You have beautiful
     eyes.", but almost anything else will do: Tell him you love
     men with hairy chests, or tell him he has a great ass, or
     tell him men with strong hands particularly turn you on, or
     tell him you love the way he smells, or tell him running
     your fingers through his hair is *so* sensual, or...
     something *specific*, not just, "You've got a great body."
     or "You're so sexy." After you tell him this, *show* him --
     run your fingers through his hair, enjoy grabbing the sexy
     ass, etc. as appropriate.
4.   Tell him you find at least one thing he does particularly
     attractive -- again, it is the *specific* thing that is
     believed and appreciated. "I love the way you kiss." or
     "Yes, touch me exactly like that." beats the hell out of
     "You're a great lover."
5.   He's going to be convinced he was either too fast or too
     slow -- the chances of simultaneous orgasm after whatever
     the culture has led him to believe is the 'proper' amount of
     time are just about nil. So be prepared ahead of time to
     convince him that this:
     A.   isn't a problem
     B.   happens to just about everybody.
     For 'too fast' tell him the first time just takes the edge
     off and he (not you) will have more time to enjoy the next
     session of lovemaking -- and meanwhile he has this wonderful
     opportunity (of *unspecified* length) to learn what pleases
     you while he's not so distracted. Assure him that you
     consider 'not being too distracted while learning' an
     *advantage* in lovemaking. For 'too slow' tell him you
     *enjoy* prolonged lovemaking -- either it gives you a chance
     for more than one orgasm or it gives you a chance to enjoy
     the wonderful sensuality of post-orgasmic sex. If it's
     obvious that it's too slow for him, that he's not going to
     make it if he keeps at it for the next two hours, let him
     know that he gave *you* a wonderful time and that
     everybody's nervous the first time, he'll be more relaxed
     and ready to enjoy it in the morning.
6.   Tell him you want to sleep with him again; don't assume he
     knows it -- don't make him ask, you ask.

---------------------------------------

c3-2.     What should I do to make (the first attempt at) oral
          sex easiest? (See questions c3-4 and c3-10 for the
          related topics, hand jobs and the G-spot)

From: hurd@fraser.sfu.ca (Peter L. Hurd)
Message-ID: <hurd.699947179@sfu.ca>
Date: Sat, 7 Mar 1992 05:46:19 GMT

So I asked the expert, she said:

1)   really like the penis that you're sucking
2)   don't let any air in through the back of the throat, big
     vacuum.
3)   Horizontal strumming with the tongue across the base of the
     head on the underside to get limp penises up
4)   Use the top of the tongue to make friction on the head,
     pressing it up against the roof of the mouth.

I'd add: watch the teeth & I know this isn't anything new or
exciting, it's really difficult to describe how to perform oral
sex on a man, just as it is very difficult to describe to someone
how to tie shoelaces or bowties. But for the good of the species,
I think it's worth a try.

From: sesharp@happy.colorado.edu

The best way to learn is to experiment and learn from feedback.
Different people like different things. There are some general
comments that might be worth making. At the least it will get
someone to contradict me and start a useful discussion.

FOR HIM:

Deep-throating apparently requires handling the gag reflex by
swallowing when it happens. In my opinion, it isn't that
important. Complete enclosure isn't the strong point of oral
stimulation. If that is important to you, try something else. She
may be able to help by using her hands on the part of the shaft
she can't enclose. The advantage of oral stimulation is the
control and variety it provides, which are only available with
shallower penetration anyway.

From others.somewhere.edu:

I find that it helps if you are hungry when you do it. Never
attempt going down on a guy if you've eaten a big meal recently.
Make sure that you're not thirsty when you start. For some reason
thirst closes up the back of your throat.

Also, concentrate on breathing through your nose deeply while
doing it. (This is the only way I can hold off chocking on my
toothbrush every morning.)

According to Linda Lovelace of "Deep Throat" fame, the most
comfortable way to give a blow job is if your throat is straight.
In order to achieve this, try laying on his chest.

She also suggests that you practice by sticking your fingers down
your throat and wiggling them around til you feel the gag reflex
and then ease off. Repeat until you've defeated the reflex, it'll
take time she says.

From sesharp@happy.colorado.edu:

FOR HER:

First of all, recognize that women prefer gentler and more
rhythmic stimulation than men. An advantage of using the tongue
instead of the fingers is that it naturally produces about the
right amount of pressure. Stimulation inside the vagina needs to
be firmer and also requires more reach, so it is better handled
with the fingers. If she is sensitive internally, there is no
reason to be a purist and insist on using only your mouth. Trying
to apply firm pressure or get too much reach with my tongue is
the only way I've ever had it get tired. Otherwise it seems to be
inexhaustible for hours.

The tongue and lips are obviously the source of most oral
stimulation. I have read descriptions of using the teeth for
stimulation but I don't recommend it. The tissues are very
sensitive and one uncontrolled body movement from her could cause
a lot of pain and leave a scratch. This can also occur with
fingernails, so keep them short, with no rough edges. The only
use I've found for teeth during oral sex is pressing their front
surface through the cushion of the upper lip to apply firm
pressure to the buried root of the clitoris at the base of the
pubic bone. If she really wants hard pressure on the clitoris,
you might try using your teeth with your lips rolled inwards to
cover the surfaces (a technique borrowed from nipple
stimulation).

The clitoris is your main area of concentration. Some women don't
like it to be stimulated directly because it is too sensitive. It
also may disappear under its hood at some stages of arousal and
stopping to try and locate it again disrupts the stimulation. In
both these cases, the hood and labia (lips) nearby should be
stimulated to indirectly stimulate the clitoris. The labia are
sensitive themselves as well.

Trying to stimulate the vagina orally is difficult and not very
effective except for a little variety. I've always found the 69
(mutual oral sex) positions give the wrong angle for best access,
though that might be due to less experience with them. They
definitely make it more difficult for the female to stimulate the
male well, since they place the sensitive underside of the penis
away from her tongue. It is usually better to take turns giving
and receiving anyway, just to avoid distraction.

There is a wide variety of types of stimulation that can be used.
The tongue can be used flat to broadly stroke areas or pointed to
tease a small area. Linear, circular or any other imaginable
motions can be used. The lips can apply suction, press something
between them, or have their wet and outward rolled inner surfaces
used for broad strokes like the tongue. The nose can provide some
interesting stimulation when the tongue is occupied lower down.
Mustaches and beards can be used to tickle with.

You can blow a narrow stream of cool air at a spot or breathe
warm air over an entire area (just don't try to inflate the
vagina; it may be dangerous). Experiment and find out what works
best for you and your partner. It may change at different times
and levels of arousal. Light teasing and varied stimulation are
good for early arousal, but steady rhythmic stimulation is best
for bringing her to orgasm. You just have to learn her responses
to avoid changing stimulation too quickly for her to get excited
or staying with the same stimulation after it has lost
effectiveness.

---------------------------------------

c3-3.     What should I do to make (the first attempt at) anal
          sex easiest?

Compiled, edited, and reorganized by adchen@phoenix.princeton.edu
with material from (stsou@hpcupt1.cup.hp.com (Sharon Tsou), KAT,
clw5@po.CWRU.Edu (Christopher L. Wood), kwatsi@athena.mit.edu
(Atomic Playboy), and rpeck@jessica.stanford.edu (Raymond Peck)

STRETCH FIRST

The key to attempting anal sex is two-fold: stretching exercises
and relaxation. This is to accomplish two things:

1)   to get your virgin ass used to something inside it, and
2)   to get your ass used to something as large as your partner's
     cock.

Stretching exercises will give you a chance to learn the needed
relaxation for the first attempt. The faster you learn to relax
the muscles involved, the easier it will be. You can use either a
dildo or fingers for the stretching exercises.

USING A DILDO

These are available at just about every adult bookstore and many
mail-order places (see questions c2-7 and c2-10). Once you get
one, you should just practice using it. You'll probably find it
easier to at least use some lubricant, at least on the first
couple inches of it (more on this later), as well as on your
asshole, and a little inside your anus.

This is to make the penetration much easier. The actual
penetration of the head of the penis is probably the most
difficult part, which is why a dildo is more realistic, and you
should most likely spend a fair amount of time getting used to
it. This can either be just inserting it up to the head, then
pulling it out and putting it in again, or completely inserting
it, and then removing it. You should do it enough until you get
to the point where you feel pretty comfortable with it. (Well, as
comfortable as it can be).

There are two steps to practice insertion with the dildo. First,
you want to insert it the "normal" way, moving and rotating the
dildo around to find the most comfortable position for you. Do it
this way, so that you know which ways are more acceptable, and
which ways are more difficult or feel a bit painful.

When you have this down, you want to repeat the "exercise", only
now trying to keep the dildo as stationary as possible, moving
your ass and body to facilitate its entry. This is a better
simulation of when he really tries to penetrate you, because
(especially if you're on the bottom and he's on the top) you
really can't expect to be able to reach around and move his cock
to where you want it. You're going to have to be able to adjust
your body to his thrusts. I really can't tell you the best way to
do this, although doing it in whatever position you expect to be
in with him (on your stomach or back, for example) would probably
be the best way to also practice it.

USING FINGERS

All you need are your or your partner's fingers. Of course, you
can't have long nails. You start out by slowly pushing one well-
lubricated finger (index is best and hand lotion or vaginal
juices work fine).

Slowly move this in and out, gradually pressing more against the
walls of the anus. Since an "anal virgin" will probably be
nervous about this, his/her anal muscles will tend to contract,
causing pain. So it helps if he/she/you (I'll use 'she' from now
on) reads, listens to music, or masturbates so her mind will be
off her anus. After the muscles loosen up, put another finger in
along with the first, and then keep moving them the same way.
Eventually, add a third, and, usually, by the time you can put
four fingers in comfortably, an average sized penis should be
able to fit (although keep in mind most penises are *longer* than
fingers, so you may not be able to push it in as far).

THE REAL THING

USE A CONDOM AND LUBRICANT

When the time comes that you do have anal sex with him, I would
recommend having a condom. I think we all know the potential
dangers of sex (especially anal sex) when not using one, so
there's no real explanation needed.

They also help reduce the mess (although if you go to the
bathroom before this, and wash your ass with a wet rag, the
inside of your rectum will be quite clean, and you should be able
to put a finger in it without it picking up any solid particles),
and you can have anal sex with a condom on, then pull off the
condom and have vaginal sex. Remember to urinate before getting
buttfucked, because this position puts pressure on the bladder.

The next item is a good lubricant. I always use it with my one
inch thick dildo, so I have to think you would definitely need to
use some with a much larger real cock. While Vaseline is okay to
use when practising yourself, it is unacceptable to use when
using a condom, since it will start to break the latex down. KY
is usually the preferred choice.

Lube up both the outside of the anus and the penis shaft (very
important!). Any lubricant that is condom compatible is ok, that
means water-based. So do not use vaseline, baby oil, or cold
cream. Use KY Jelly, AstroGlide, HR, or PrePair. PrePair is a
good one because it contains nonoxynyl-9, which is a spermicide
that also can kill many bacteria. Spit is also a viable
lubricant, provided that you keep replenishing it. It evaporates
more readily than other lubricants, especially during lengthy (ho
ho) sessions, so you'll have to be aware.

GOING FOR IT: take it *slow*

Okay, now that we've got the preparatory details out of the way,
it's time to enter. You should proceed VERY slowly. Place the
head of your penis against the anus, and then, apply a SMALL
amount of pressure so that the penis enters very slowly. It is
important to maintain control on entry because if you apply too
much pressure and the anal muscles just 'give way' it could hurt
like hell. Once you two become accustomed to doing this, it will
become much easier.

Getting inside may take anywhere from 15 seconds to 15 minutes.
Don't be impatient! If you push too hard or go too fast, you can
tear her. This isn't really serious, but it'll surely end your
fun for the day! She may want you to ease up on the pressure at
times to allow her body to get used to the opening. When she
gives you the go-ahead, it often helps to do a bit of short
stroking, starting with ~1/8" and going to maybe 1". When you
start to slide inside, she will most likely open up and relax
better. Don't start out thrusting, just gently move back and
forth, or just get it inside and rest it there until she's used
to it.

This is the most important part for her comfort and pleasure.
Basically, you apply a bit of pressure, and as she relaxes she
will let you in. Sometimes the act of her "pushing out" (like
defecating) will relax her sphincter. After you become more used
to it, a slight (~ 1/4") pumping of the pressure will let her
open up faster.

Sometimes she will find it painful for you to go in all the way:
it's similar to hitting the cervix. Don't go in all the way! Just
be very gentle at bottom of the stroke 'till it eases up.

After a while, if she is properly relaxed, you should not need to
be gentle: you can pump away with mad abandon. In fact, some find
this most stimulating. I pump all the way in, and then all the
way out, pulling completely out of her for a moment (although not
too long, 'cause she'll start to contract right away).

OTHER STUFF

Never switch orifices (i.e. going from anal to vaginal play)
without carefully washing with soap and water. Bacteria from the
colon can cause nasty vaginal infections. If you are using sex
toys (dildos or anal plugs) cover it with a condom first, so you
can simply pull off the condom and put on a fresh one to use on
another orifice or another partner, provided that you don't have
contaminated lubricant oozing all over the place.

You may or may not be need some type of pillow. This is basically
to prop under the ass or lay under the stomach to make the angle
of penetration a little easier. Whether you need this will depend
on where you have sex (it may be impractical to bring one, or the
positioning may be good enough already).

If you are into learning from pornography (and if you just want a
good laugh ;-)) I would suggest that you check out Hollywood
Video's "The Best of Caught From Behind: Part II". It's very
pornographic, very informative, and very funny. It's up to you
though.

POSITIONS

As for positions, it's usually easiest for insertion (unless
she's *really* excited!) in the spoon position. This also gives
you access to easily stimulate her in other ways. Be careful not
to transfer anything from the anal region to the vagina: this can
cause infections. I usually keep a set of fingers or a hand
"clean" for this purpose. This is also, of course, important for
non-intercourse anal stimulation, such as cunnilingus with some
fingers rubbing, some inside her vagina, and some in her anus.
Keep those fingers partitioned!

We usually switch to "on the knees-face in the pillow, her
pressing hard on her clit and pubic bone", to avoid severe
abrasion burns! ;-) Spoon position allows her more control over
initial insertion, while the other, well, it has its own
advantages!

The other positions, after initial insertion, to face-to-face,
with her legs on my shoulders. This really allows some serious
depth.

The position depends largely on how well you two fit together. If
you are tall and if your SO is short, you might want to try
having her lie flat on her stomach. You could also have her lie
on her back with her knees drawn up. In this situation, it might
be a good idea to place a pillow under her buttocks (depending on
what the two of you like). If dimensional factors permit, she
could also be on her hands and knees.
Xref: bloom-picayune.mit.edu alt.sex:103545 news.answers:5203
Newsgroups: alt.sex,news.answers
Path: bloom-picayune.mit.edu!enterpoop.mit.edu!thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu!homer.cs.mcgill.ca!superdj
From: superdj@cs.mcgill.ca (David JOHNSON)
Subject: [alt.sex] FAQ (2/4)
Message-ID: <C0pwFB.IDv@cs.mcgill.ca>
Followup-To: alt.sex
Summary: frequently asked questions for alt.sex
Originator: superdj@binkley.cs.mcgill.ca
Keywords: Parts c3-4 to c3-15
Sender: news@cs.mcgill.ca (Netnews Administrator)
Organization: SOCS - Mcgill University, Montreal, Canada
Date: Tue, 12 Jan 1993 01:35:35 GMT
Approved: news-answers-request@MIT.Edu
Expires: Wed, 10 Feb 1993 00:00:00 GMT
Lines: 1112

Archive-name: alt-sex/faq/part2
Last-modified: 1 Jan 1993


---------------------------------------

c3-4.     How does one give a hand job?

                How to Give the Perfect Hand Job

                        by Brooks Peters

Sex means more than intercourse; exploring all the different
variations enhances your sex life and keeps it from getting
stale. Masturbating your partner can be very exciting for both of
you. So, read on and learn how to let your fingers do the
walking.

Mutual masturbation can be a thrilling experience, but first, we
need to study the basics of manual technique. Most men feel women
aren't skilled at handling penises. Their grips are too limp,
lacking conviction and exuberance. They seem afraid to apply
pressure, yet often pull or tug at inappropriate moments,
disrupting the rhythm. They also have a tendency to scratch.
Clearly, we all need to be more knowledgeable about the proper
methods of mutual masturbation. Either you or your partner can
perform the following exercises. But it is written with an
experienced woman in mind.

The first concern is always a matter of size. Is it large or
small? Somewhere in between? No issue has ever received greater
attention than the size of a man's penis. Man's obsession with
cock size is probably a mental vestige of his primitive primate
past, but as far as human sexuality is concerned, it's a waste of
time. A large penis doesn't have any effect on a woman's physical
enjoyment unless she has a deep-seated psychological attachment
to well-endowed men.

How about its shape? Is it curved like a boomerang or is it
straight like an arrow? Does your fist fit around the spongy mass
of the shaft? Does your hand completely engulf it? This is good
because you can squeeze it all at once. But don't be an organ
grinder. Be gentle, yet firm. If the penis has an unusual girth,
your hand may not completely encircle it. In such cases, try both
hands to insure you don't miss any of the tender areas while
stroking.

Explore every square inch of his genital surface area. A man
loves to have his penis worshipped, played with, tickled,
fondled, massaged. Let him know that you are not afraid, ashamed
or disgusted.

Don't start stroking or jerking quite yet. Just feel the fullness
of it all. Let your fingers run from the balls to the top of the
cock head, swirl around there, then slide back down the other
half and end back down at the balls. The movements should be
swift and smooth, without bumping or stalling.

Now you're ready for some stepped-up action, but you don't want
to suddenly lapse into a series of beatings, whackings, jackings
and jerkings. Tease the more sensitive areas of the penis. These
include: the glans and corona, and the tender part of the bottom
side of his penis.

Bring your palm up to the top of the glans and park it there flat
out, fingers held together and stiff, thumb pointed straight out.
Spin it around as if you were trying desperately to remove the
tight lid of a jar. Your man will be groaning in delicious agony.
The glans is super sensitive and this motion will bring him
exquisite pleasure. He might grimace and cry out, and probably
try to push your hand away, but he's loving every second of it.
Now's your chance to be the one who plows ahead even though he's
pleading with you to stop!

After you've done this for a while, slip your hand down his
testicles and ever-so-gently grab them in your fingers, softly
tugging them down away from his shaft. If they are big and bulky,
like Grade AA eggs, bounce them up and down a couple of times in
your hand. Tell him how heavy they feel, how sexy they are.
Whatever you do, don't squeeze them! This could put a real damper
on your lovemaking for the rest of the day. You might notice that
one of his nuts hangs lower than the other. This is perfectly
normal. Once you feel comfortable with the way his balls feel in
your hand, gently roll them up the underside of his shaft.
Depending on their size and the amount of room in the scrotum,
they will most likely reach to half way of his penis. He will
like the way this feels.

Now, let go of his testicles and bring your fingers together in a
makeshift goosehead formation. Very lightly, begin to stroke his
erection with your fingers, running them all over his sensitive
shaft and balls. You may wish to slip the pocket of your
goosehead handhold over the tip of his penis, letting it rest
there for a few seconds.

About this time, the penis will probably start to emit its
natural lubricant. Pre-seminal fluid is nature's way of
moistening the canal of the urethra so that the spermatozoa can
swim more easily out of it; it also lubricates the head of the
penis. An uncircumcised penis gathers up this lubricant within
the foreskin and keeps the head very moist and slick. Use the
juice to lubricate the shaft. Sometimes, its musky smell can be
an aromatic aphrodisiac for you both.

If there is little or no pre-cum, don't be concerned. It is not a
requirement, and it doesn't always appear at exactly the same
time.

In any case a good lubricant will work just as well. Add a drop
of moisturizing lotion to the shaft and gently rub it in.
Alexandra Penney, in her book, "How to Make Love to a Man", is
very keen on massaging the lotion between one's hands before
putting it on the penis because sometimes the cream is cold and
the palm-rubbing warms it up.

If your partner doesn't seem to have a very firm erection, try
using a cinnamon-based ointment which you can find at your local
sex novelty store or acquire through a mail catalog. The slight
burning sensation often causes the penis to become rock-hard.
Adding a little dab to the testicles also helps. If you really
want to do a number on him, slip a dollop of Ben-Gay on his balls
and watch him go through the roof.

One of the secrets of great manual sex is varying your hand
motions. Here are a few indispensable techniques:

SWITCH HITTER
Use both hands, alternating back and forth in a pattern you
develop to offer him the most arousal. He will notice the
difference. Don't get into a routine where the strokes are dull,
and noncommittal. Give it to him good. Get him to the point where
he's singing out, "I second that hand motion!"

DOUBLE WHAMMY
How about going double or nothing! Bring both well-lubricated
hands down on his shaft. Some cocks are so big they require both
hands. If your partner's doesn't, then use the other hand to
caress and lightly flutter his balls, or tighten around the base
of his shaft. If both hands fit along the length of the shaft,
move then together, up and down, in the typical pumping motion.
Pretend you're holding a baseball bat and are about to score a
grand slam. You can also vary the directions of your hands, one
up, one down at the same time. There's no doubt that two hands
are better than one.

THE ANVIL STROKE
Bring one hand down, letting it stroke the penis from the top all
the way to the bottom. When it hits the bottom, release it.
Meanwhile you're bringing your corresponding hand down to the top
of the shaft, creating an alternating beating motion, hence the
name "anvil stroke." Think of those blacksmith duos who keep up a
double beat pounding motion as they beat that rod of iron on a
piping-hot anvil.

THE SHUTTLE COCK
Not many people have heard of the "shuttle cock," but it's one of
the best. Take the penis in both hands, fingers lightly touching
the sides of the shaft. In order to visualize the position, think
of yourself holding a clarinet. Now flick the penis back and
forth between your two hands by holding on to the loose skin of
the shaft. Shuttling it back and forth in this manner may not
seem incredibly thrilling to him at first, but pretty soon, as it
builds up momentum, it will drive him out of his mind. Orgasms
encountered via this method are sometimes messy, but always
memorable.

THE BOOKENDS
Place both of your hands side by side against his shaft like a
pair of bookends. Now push hard against his penis. Then lift your
hands up and down. Continue in this manner for a while. The
constant tugging of the skin around the balls and the mons pubis
will do the trick.

THE FLAME
Place your hands down on either side, your fingers pointing away
from the cock. Pretend you're a campfire girl and start spinning
his pecker like a stick of wood. This way you'll keep the home
fires burning for a long time to come.

THE BASE CLUTCH
Tighten your thumb and forefinger around the base of the shaft,
pressing down on the balls. This will cut off the blood (acting
as an impromptu cock ring) and help you steady the shaft in your
hand. If the skin on it is slick and immutable, you can stroke
the penis with more friction, thereby enhancing the excruciating
experience.

THE LOVE TUG
As you are stroking him, lightly pull on the wispy strands of
pubic hair sprouting from his testicles. Don't pull so hard that
you remove them, but tease them gently, lovingly. This will make
him holler with delight and awe at your inventiveness.

THE TWO-TIMER
Tickle his balls with one hand while the other jerks him up and
down.

THE THIGH-SWATTER
Use the hand that is currently unemployed to firmly but lovingly
pat his inner thighs.

BEST FIST FORWARD
Place your fist against his perineum as you're stroking him.
He'll probably start opening his legs a little wider, giving you
more space to press against. Guaranteed to drive him wild.

As always, it is the psychological impact of what you are doing
that makes the sex so satisfying. Let your mind escape into the
uncharted wilderness of fantasy. As a sexual pioneer, it is your
manifest destiny to explore the outer limits of your sensuality.

From: "The Contrivor"

"How to give the perfect handjob" has inspired the following
additions.

All of the techniques below require good lubrication... Vaseline
or alboline are recommended. A fifty/fifty mixture of these two
lubricants is excellent.

CAVEAT -  Never use oil-based lubricants in conjunction with
          latex protection

THE MILKER Opposite of the Anvil - Hands alternate 'milking' up
the penis, starting at the base and working all the way up past
the tip.

THE PERPETUAL PENETRATION Like the Anvil, but rather than just
grabbing the penis at the top, let his penis 'penetrate' into
your fist on each stroke. Before the head of his penis pops out
of your hand, bring the other hand up for the next penetration.
This way it seems to him like he is penetrating deeper and deeper
into an infinite vagina. Make sure you keep the penetration
continuous for best results. Try faster or slower to taste.

THE PALM SWIRL - Use your open palm to swirl around the head, the
way your tongue would lick an ice cream cone. This sensitizes the
head, and will make it get larger and turn (even more) red. Try
reversing direction for a surprise.

TINY CIRCLES - As in "The Palm Swirl", use your open palm on his
glans, but stop at each "hour of the clock", and make circular
motions with your open palm. This will make this part of the head
EXTREMELY sensitive, so move to the next hour after a few
circles.

THE RING - Make a ring with your thumb and forefinger, and pump
up and down with this ring. When you get to the top, close the
ring, then make him squeeze his way in as you slide back down to
the bottom.

THE DOOR KNOB - Turn the head of his penis like a you're trying
to open a door knob coated with grease. It won't turn, but he may
flip. Now try turning the other way. Repeat.

THE SHAFT - Stroke only his shaft, ignoring the head. You will
notice it swelling and turning red. When it's bright red and rock
hard, use the Door Knob, the Palm Swirl, or the Perpetual
Penetration.

THE SPOT PINCH -- Lightly and slowly run a finger up the under
side of his cock. Ask him to tell you where the most sensitive
spot is. Pinch it, squeeze it, nibble it, tease it. This is a
good spot to pinch to turn a soft cock rock solid.

---------------------------------------

c3-5.     What is circumcision and why is it done?

From: Travis Lee Winfrey <travis@ZONKER.gs.com>

"Male circumcision is the surgical removal of the foreskin from
the penis. When performed in a hospital, it is usually done
shortly after birth by a doctor or midwife. Circumcisions are
also given to Jewish boys by a _mohel_ in a ceremony eight days
after birth. Some (all?) Islamic boys are circumcised when they
are older, around 12. The majority of American boys are
circumcised.

Common reasons for circumcision include: better hygiene, "normal"
or "better" appearance, and "his penis should look like his
father's." Common reasons against circumcision include: it is no
longer necessary for hygienic reasons; it is a painful, barbaric
practice; possibility of infection or surgical error; "normal" or
"better" appearance; "his penis should look like his father's.";
and "greater sensitivity of uncircumcised penis."

Female circumcision is used to refer to a variety of practices,
including the removal of the clitoral hood. It is primarily
practised in Northern Africa.''

---------------------------------------

c3-6.     What is the Venus butterfly?

This is allegedly a technique which is supposed to do orgasmic
wonders. It was mentioned in an episode of L.A. Law, but of
course, was never explained. Some people have suggested a method
that might fit the name: Put your palms together, finger to
finger, spread your fingers, and insert one pair of fingers into
the vagina, another into the anus, plus another pair, stimulating
the clitoris. This provides a sort of triple stimulation.

---------------------------------------

c3-7.     What are the contents of semen?

From _SEX A TO Z_ by Robert M. Goldenson, Ph.D., and Kenneth N.
Anderson Copyright 1989 by Walter D. Glanze, Pub. by World
Almanac, P. 243:

Semen content -
     a term usually referring to the total content of semen
     (whereas the term semen analysis usually refers to the
     analysis of sperm). The question of semen content arises
     especially among persons who regularly swallow semen, as in
     fellatio, and who are concerned about calorie intake and
     nutritional substances. The average ejaculate of aboutonia,
     ascorbic acid, blood-group antigens, calcium, chlorine,
     cholesterol, choline, citric acid, creatine,
     deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), fructose, glutathione,
     hyaluronidase, inositol, lactic acid, magnesium, nitrogen,
     phosphorus, potassium, purine, pyrimidine, pyruvic acid,
     sodium, sorbitol, spermidine, spermine, urea, uric acid,
     vitamin b12, zinc... For analysis of sperm, see SEMEN
     ANALYSIS.

Note FRUCTOSE and SODIUM (salt) ARE listed.

---------------------------------------

c3-8.     How much semen and how many sperm are in a single
          ejaculate?

From _Dimensions of Human Sexuality_ by Curtis O. Byer and Louis
W. Shainberg, third edition Copyright 1991 by Wm. C. Brown
Publishers, P. 103:

Although highly variable, there may be 40 to 120 million sperm
per millilitre of semen. With a volume of 2 to 5 ml (1/2 to 1
tsp) per ejaculate, this means there may be 80 to 600 million
sperm in one ejaculation.

---------------------------------------

c3-9.     Does what I eat affect the taste of semen/vaginal
          fluids?

From: unknown

The old adage "You are what you eat" has been known for a long
time. I have heard that the Chinese, most of whom have a genetic
trait commonly known as Lactose Intolerance, think that
Westerners "smell funny" and this has been attributed to the milk
in the Western diet.

Regarding vegetables, one of my old girlfriends had a habit of
eating a lot of sweet fruits and veggies; she tasted wonderful.
On the other hand, Xaviera Hollander (The Happy Hooker; Call Me
Madam) once gave advice to a man who was seriously considering
becoming a gigolo: Don't eat spicy foods. Your customers will
smell it in your natural odour and may end up tasting it in your
semen--a bad experience to receive.

---------------------------------------

c3-10.    What is and where is the G-Spot?

FIRST ARTICLE (Author: unknown)

G wiz aka g-spot aka Grafenberg spot

Summary:
1)   The g-spot exists in all women.
2)   sensitivity varies.
3)   Reaction/interpretation/openness varies.

G-spot IS female analog to prostate. It really does exist.

The road map (can by used by a man/woman with a woman partner or
a woman on herself).

Start from the pubic bone, it is the bone running across the
lower end of the abdominal region -- between the thighs and a
little above the clitoris and labia. The g-spot is behind this
bone -- so you need to find a way around to the other side.
Fortunately, there is an alternate approach in women -- up the
vagina. The walls of the vagina are somewhat wrinkly, a testimony
to how much the vagina can stretch (say to the size of a baby's
head). On the forward surface there is a smoother patch in about
2 knuckles (1.5-3 inches, 3.5-7 cm.). If a woman was to lay her
palm on top of her clitoris and curl a finger (or fingers) in to
the vagina in to a loose clench, the tips would be in the right
region. The g-spot is buried under some layers of tissue so it
may take some pressure to stimulate this area.

Repeating some general hints.

     Arousal of the g-spot is usually more effective if the woman
     is already sexually aroused.

     Sharp or long nails are probably a no-no.
     Some pressure may be necessary. Two fingers are usually
     employed -- esp. since few people use mechanical typewriters
     (which would give fingers strength and endurance).

     Initial sensations in the woman may be a) discomfort, an
     urge to urinate (the urethra from the bladder is being
     stimulated), or a pleasurable sensation.

     As stimulation continues (few minutes), the g-spot will
     begin to swell. "Continued stimulation of the area _may_
     result in an orgasm that is often quite intense." [see above
     regarding being sexually aroused -- first. No arousal -- no
     orgasm].

     Ejaculation is possible, but the fluid is different from
     vaginal secretions and from urine.

     This does not work for all women. Discuss with your
     intimates. Compare notes.

     For some women, this area may receive stimulus in penile-
     vaginal intercourse given the right angles. Rear entry
     ("doggie style") may facilitate penile pressure in this
     region.

     If the partner you are playing with is a man, you can try
     for a similar effect on his prostate entering through his
     anus -- Long or sharp nails are a big NO-NO. You might want
     to use a glove or condom over fingers. I should not need to
     say: DO NOT allow fecal material on or around woman's
     vagina.

     Note this can actually cause an ejaculation from a man
     without orgasm or an intense orgasm or something in between
     or nothing at all.

PLEASE:

Practice safe sex. No exchange of bodily fluids -- blood, feces
(which may contain blood), semen, or female ejaculum; unless you
both have been monogamous...

SECOND ARTICLE (author: Peter A. Merel)
ok, I got a copy of this thing from two different people, and it
was the same manual, so I guess this is the authentic one after
all.

I also received an interesting letter from a girl in California
that claimed she had written the g-spot manual. I would leave her
address, but she probably wouldn't like that so if you want it,
drop me a note and I'll give it to ya.

Well, good luck finding it! I know I'll be having some fun
tonight!

Okay, I've found G-spots in three women of my acquaintance. Two
of them were completely delighted with the discovery, and the
other one wasn't real crazy about it no matter what. Chacun a son
gout. It took some time and patience for one of the delighted
ones, but the other delighted one reckoned that she'd hit it by
accident a few times and just not known what happened. She
responded immediately, and with gusto.

Now I guess it's time for sex-ed 101, so listen up all of you who
have a sexual interest in female anatomy. The rest of you
probably ought to hit 'n' now.

7 will get you 2 that not a single netter hit 'n'. Well, let's
start with a nice juicy diagram. You'll have to bear with my
ability to render in ASCII. In an ideal world I'd sit one of the
secretaries on top of the fax machine, but, sadly, we are
restricted to text here.

If you have access to     #########  These hashes are supposed
a set of female genitals   #######   to be pubic hair covering
I'd suggest that you        #####    the pudendum.
compare them with this       ###
schematic. Single females
might like to use a mirror   /U\     U is the clitoris
(or two) to verify that    /' . `\   . is the urethra
they're set up like this. /'  _  `\  The rest of the characters
I should probably say    { | / \ | } are supposed to be the outer
that this is intended to { ` \ / ' } lips (labia majora), the
represent a view of the   \ ` ~ ' /  inner lips (labia minora),
genitals with legs spread, \ ` ' /   and the vagina (or is that
looking up through the torso ~|~     vulva?)
as if the woman were a        O      O is the anus
telescope.

For those who never had a close look before and are a bit
worried, I ought to say that, except when quite sincerely
aroused, female genitals are usually not this clearly set out.
The clitoris likes to hide under it's own little hood, the lips
stick pretty close to one another, and it is quite likely that if
the owner of the genitals is standing up and unaroused you won't
really see more than some enticing tufts of hair and maybe the
outer lips. Folks whose knowledge of these matters derives mainly
from Playboy pictorials may be quite surprised that there's more
here than 'just a hole'.

Traditionally it was thought that all of the sensation available
from the female genitals derived from the lips, entrance to the
vagina, and especially the clitoris. In other words, what you see
above. It was thought that the interior of the vagina was
practically numb to sexual sensation.

Now one of those old coots who spent the seventies sticking their
noses into other people's intimate businesses was a guy called
Grafenberg, if memory serves. Dr G. had this theory that there
was an area within the vagina, which was called the Grafenberg
spot or G spot, which not only was sexually sensitive but which
could trigger bigger and better female orgasms than the clit and
the exterior bits could by themselves.

Now the trouble with Dr G.'s claim was that not everyone seemed
to be able to find this spot, which he reckoned was analogous
with the male prostate gland, and those that did find it didn't
necessarily like it much, and so there was some controversy,
especially in the popular press. A number of folks who did find
it and did like it eventually sussed out the mechanics of the
spot, and over the last few years there've been a number of quite
good books about it.

The story is basically this: The G-spot is a flat area about as
big as a one or two cent piece, about two inches inside the
vagina. It's just behind the pubic bone, on the vaginal wall that
is closest to the belly-button. You can reach it with your index
finger. If the genitals you're playing with are not very aroused
then you might have difficulty finding it, or it might not feel
very interesting or nice to the owner.

The trick is to make those genitals very aroused, and then have a
go at the G-spot. The best way is probably cunnilingus, which is
latin for having a lick, but any technique that provides good
stimulation of the clitoris will do for starters.

Now bear in mind that I'm skipping over a lot here. I strongly
recommend a good deal of foreplay before diving into a woman's
muff, like at least half an hour, and longer if you like. If you
can manage dinner and a good bath beforehand, even better.
Actually, I reckon that a bath or a shower before sex is a
reasonably good idea anyway, because we're dealing with equipment
that can be quite off-putting if it's on the nose when it's on
the nose, if you take my meaning. Besides, bathing is fun.

So, presuming that your woman is content with the preliminaries
and you're going hunting, you're going to have to begin by
relaxing. Softly Softly Catchee Monkey. If you're so pent up that
slamming your dick in the door has a pleasurable side to it
(sorry feminists, I'm not certain what the female equivalent to
that state is) then forget all this until you've had a bloody
good rogering or two.

Once you've achieved a state of patient interest, slowly start to
stimulate the clitoris. You've got to be really careful here,
because clitori are damned sensitive little beggars, and too much
of a good thing is not really a good thing at all. Also,
different clitori like different things.

Some like quite direct stimulation, some prefer one side or the
other, others are so sensitive that they like you to mainly stick
to the clitoral hood or the labia. Some like a circular motion,
and others like to be lightly flicked back and forth. The best
way to find out what your clitoris likes is to ask it's owner,
and if she doesn't know then do some experimentation. That's fun
too, so don't get pissed off if it takes a little while to figure
out what's good for you.

As I said, my preferred method is cunnilingus, but if the owner
of your clitoris doesn't like that for some reason ("no, my dear,
it's not germy and it does taste rather nice") then you'll have
to use your fingers. I find that the best thing for clitori is a
nice regular stroke, with regular exotic interludes. Basically
it's the same thing as for penises - you don't want all sorts of
unpredictable jerking around, and you don't want to feel like
it's caught in a vise, and you don't want it to feel like it's
attached to a reciprocating engine going at 5000 revs. Take it
easy. If the owner of your clitoris wants more stimulation you'll
notice her writhing around and pushing it at you. If she wants
less then she'll draw away. If it's just right then she'll sit
where she is and enjoy it. Pay attention to what she does.

So, you've got a nice regular stroke going - say, seven strokes
and then something exotic, and then another seven strokes and
another something exotic. Of course the G spot is in the vagina,
and you're going to have to know what's going on in there if
you're going to find it and do something with it. Slowly insert a
finger or two. Don't grab, because that can be rude and
distracting.

Now hopefully the vagina that you're dealing with is well
lubricated, but that won't necessarily be the case. If you spend
a long time at this even the juiciest woman can start to dry out,
so it never hurts to have a little lubricant handy, just in case.
I'd recommend K-Y jelly, which you should be able to find at any
chemist, but there are lots of alternatives. One that I wouldn't
recommend is vaseline - too thick. Another is baby oil - too
thin, and besides we should conserve the babies :-)

You can entertain yourself by running your finger around the
inside of the vagina, trying to discern its shape. Unless your
female is coming (having an orgasm), you should probably find
that the vagina is reasonably form-fitting, although some are
tighter than others. If your female is not coming or consciously
causing contractions you'll probably find that the vagina isn't
doing anything in particular, just sitting there and producing
lubricant. If you bring your finger to the front wall of the
vagina then you'll find it less yielding than the rest, because
there is a bone in front of it called the pubic bone, part of the
pelvis. If you feel along this unyielding section or just beyond
you may find a slightly raised area. This is the G spot. It might
not be raised, but it will engorge once your female starts to
come.

Don't poke this spot yet. Don't do anything with it, yet. At best
you won't have any effect, and at worst you'll be distracting.
You've got to wait for your female to start to come. Now this
might happen in thirty seconds, or it might take an hour, and
you've just got to be patient and keep things regular and smooth.
You'll be able to tell your woman is coming when:

-    she tells you
-    she moans one hell of a lot and her breathing changes
-    she flushes, over her face, neck and/or chest
-    her vagina begins to flutter rhythmically around your finger

You may see all of these things, or you may see none of them. If
you miss an orgasm, don't stop unless you or she wants to. Women
have startling recuperative powers, particularly when they're
receiving the right level of attention, and generosity is its own
reward. Multiple orgasms are not mythical.

Once you believe that your woman is coming you should shift your
attention from the clitoris to the G spot. Keep up the same
rhythm, but use more pressure. You may want to keep some sort of
contact with the clitoris, but just as a penis becomes
supersensitive during orgasm, to the point of discomfort, so can
a clit.

As with the clitoris, you should pay attention to whether the
woman pushes towards you, draws away from you or just sits there
to gauge the amount of pressure you're giving. You probably won't
need to vary your speed much, but pay attention to what she says
she wants.

Now as you go at the G spot you'll find that your woman keeps
coming for longer than you've seen before. You may even
experience that most startling of sexual phenomena, a female
ejaculation. I've seen three of these (actually I got a
mouthful), but I can't say whether the fluid comes from the
vagina or the urethra. It's quite nice, sort of like salad
dressing. It's definitely not urine, and it is probably polite
and hopefully reciprocal to swallow it.

Keep going at that G spot. Eventually you will feel the vagina
draw away from your finger - it becomes bigger and the walls get
taut, and not form-fitting, sort of like a little cave. When it
does this it's time to switch back to the clitoris. Keep up the
same rhythm. When the vagina begins to contract on your finger
again, go back to the G spot.

If you keep this up for a while (and if the owner of your female
genitals wants to stop, then stop - this isn't a competition),
you'll find that the nature of the vaginal contractions changes.
The cave effect becomes less and less frequent and you can spend
more and more time with the G spot. Also, the contractions in the
vagina become less simple squeezing and fluttering, and more a
sort of reverse swallowing - a contraction that starts deep
within the vagina and travels to its entrance. It feels a bit
like the vagina is trying to push your finger out. Eventually
(may take hours and patience and many tries) you've got nothing
but these push-out contractions, and you can go on as long as the
owner of the genitals wants to, and your tongue and fingers don't
wear out. If you go on this long you're almost certainly going to
need some extra lubricant, so be prepared.

There you have it. At least in my experience, women can have
orgasms that last orders of magnitude longer and seem to be much
better than those that men can have. I guess I better add a
disclaimer that all of this is only one man's experience, and I
could be completely wrong about the female genitals that you
have. I'm not certain there is such a thing as device
independence where sexual equipment is concerned. I don't think
that any of the things I've advocated can do you any harm, but
see your doctor if you've doubts. The main thing is to have fun.
Happy fucking.

THIRD ARTICLE (for those who prefer a more scientific approach)

From: N51LS801@ncsuvm.cc.ncsu.edu
Message-ID: <167B7BB6F.N51LS801@ncsuvm.cc.ncsu.edu>
Date: 27 Mar 92 18:19:42 GMT

The following information about female ejaculation and the
Grafenberg spot is quoted from a widely used, frequently revised
college text on human sexuality: Robert Crooks and Karla Baur,
OUR SEXUALITY, 4th ed. (Redwood City, CA: Benjamin/Cummings Pub.
Co., 1990), 117, 206-208. [HQ21.C698 1990] Cited references are
given at the end of the selection.

The Grafenberg spot is an area located within the anterior (or
front) wall of the vagina, about one centimetre from the surface
and one-third to one-half way in from the vaginal opening. It is
reported to consist of a system of glands (Skene's glands) and
ducts that surround the urethra (Heath, 1984). This area is
believed to be the female counterpart of the male prostate gland
and to develop from the same embryonic tissue (Belzer, 1981;
Heath, 1984).

The Grafenberg spot has generated considerable interest because
of reports that some women experience sexual arousal, orgasm, or
perhaps an ejaculation of fluid when stimulated there. There is
wide variation in response from person to person (Zaviacic et
al., 1988). (117)

In the last few years, a number of studies have reported that
some women are capable of experiencing orgasm, and perhaps
ejaculation, when an area along the anterior wall of the vagina
is vigorously stimulated (Addiego et al., 1981; Alzate & Hoch,
1986; Belzer, 1981; Perry & Whipple, 1981; Sevely & Bennet, 1978;
Whipple & Komisaruk, 1988; Zaviacic et al., 1988). This area of
erotic sensitivity... has been named the Grafenberg spot (or G
spot) in honour of Ernest Grafenberg (1950), a gynecologist who
first noted the erotic significance of this location within the
vagina 40 years ago. However, the presence of glandular
structures in this area was noted in the medical literature over
100 years ago (Skene, 1880). Recently, it has been suggested that
the Grafenberg spot is not a point that can be touched by the tip
of one finger but, rather, fairly large area composed of the
lower anterior wall of the vagina and the underlying urethra and
surrounding glands. Adequate stimulation of this much vaginal
tissue may require use of "the full breadth of the middle two
fingers and at least two thirds of their lengths" (Heath, 1984,
p. 205)

Robert Mallon (1984), a pathologist and medical researcher,
recently presented evidence of glandular material similar to
prostate tissue in the Grafenberg area of 42 females examined by
postmortem autopsies. Corroboration of this research was provided
by another study in which complete urethras and surrounding
tissue from 17 autopsied females and a portion of a urethra from
one surgical specimen were examined. Over 80% of the specimens
had prostatelike glandular tissue, the majority of which
contained substances known to be produced by the male prostate
(Heath, 1984).

The Grafenberg spot, or area, may be located by "systematic
palpation of the entire anterior wall of the vagina between the
posterior side of the pubic bone and the cervix. Two fingers are
usually employed, and it is often necessary to press deeply into
the tissue to reach the spot" (Perry & Whipple, 1981, p. 29).
This exploration may conducted by a woman's partner, as shown in
Figure 6.9 [Diagram omitted] Some women are able to locate their
Grafenberg spot through self-exploration. (206)

During initial searching for the sometimes elusive Grafenberg
spot, a woman or her partner must rely on the sensations produced
by manual stimulation. When the area is located, women report a
variety of initial sensations, including a slight feeling of
discomfort, a brief sensation of needing to urinate, or a
pleasurable feeling. After a minute or more of stroking the
sensations usually become more pleasurable, and the area may
begin to swell to a discernible size. Continued stimulation of
the area may result in an orgasm that is often quite intense.

Perhaps the most amazing thing about Grafenberg spot orgasms is
that they are sometimes accompanied by the ejaculation of fluid
from the urethral opening. Four researchers describe their
observation of this event:

[Begin quote] With the aid of the subject's husband, four of us
(Addiego, Belzer, Perry, and Whipple) were able to observe her
response to digital massage of her Grafenberg spot, which led to
expulsion of liquid, and reportedly and apparently to orgasm, on
several occasions. On none of these occasions did stimulation of
the clitoris, direct or otherwise, appear to occur. Orgasmic
expulsions occurred after less than a minute of stimulation; they
were separated in a multi- orgasmic series by similarly brief
periods of time. The urethral area was clearly exposed in bright
light, and there was absolutely no doubt that the liquid was
expelled from the urethral meatus. Sometimes it exuded from the
meatus. At other times it was expelled from one to a few
centimetres. On one observed occasion, expulsion was of
sufficient force to create a series of wet spots covering a
distance of more than a meter. (Addiego et al., 1981, p. 17) [End
quote] (207)

Research indicates that the source of this fluid is the "female
prostate"... The ducts from this system empty directly into the
urethra. In some women Grafenberg orgasms result in fluid being
forced through these ducts and out the urethra. In view of the
homologous nature of the Grafenberg spot tissue and the male
prostate, we might speculate that the female ejaculate is similar
to the prostatic component of male seminal fluid. This notion has
been supported by one study in which specimens of female
ejaculate were chemically analyzed and found to contain high
levels of an enzyme, prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP),
characteristic of the prostatic component of semen (Addiego et
al., 1981).

Many women report that the fluid has a mild semenlike scent. A
later study of six female ejaculators failed to differentiate
samples of their urine and the fluid they ejaculated during
sexual response (Goldberg et al., 1983).

However, a still more recent study of seven women who ejaculate
reported that the collected urine and ejaculate samples differed
substantially in the amount of PAP present (Belzer et al., 1984).
The inconsistency in these findings may be due, at least in part,
to a methodological problem arising from the fact that both
ejaculate and urine are delivered through the urethra.

A very recent study reported finding concentrations of fructose
in the female ejaculate (Zaviacic et al., 1988b). (... fructose
is a major component of male ejaculate.) The fructose level in
the orgasmic expulsions of women is considerably higher than that
found in their urine, a finding that "suggests that the female
ejaculate cannot be simply regarded as urine..." (Zaviacic et
al., 1988b, p. 323). We can expect that the controversy over the
biochemistry of the female ejaculate will continue until,
hopefully, further research clarifies the precise nature of this
fluid. (208)

References cited:
Addiego, F. Belzer, E., Comolli, J., Moger, W., Perry, J. and
Whipple, B. (1981) Female ejaculation: A case study. JOURNAL OF
SEX RESEARCH, 17, 13-21.
Alzate, H. and Hoch, Z. (1986) The "G spot" and "female
ejaculation": A current appraisal. JOURNAL OF SEX AND MARITAL
THERAPY, 12, 211-220.
Belzer, E. Orgasmic expulsions of women: A review and heuristic
inquiry. JOURNAL OF SEX RESEARCH, 17, 1-12.
Goldberg, D., Whipple, B., Fishkin, R., Waxman, H., Fink, P. and
Weisberg, M. (1983) The Grafenberg spot and female ejaculation: A
review of initial hypotheses. JOURNAL OF SEX AND MARITAL THERAPY,
9, 27-37.
Heath, D. An investigation into the origins of a copious vaginal
discharge during intercourse -"enough to wet the bed"-that "is
not urine." JOURNAL OF SEX RESEARCH, 20, 194-215.
Mallon, R. (Oct. 1984) Demonstration of vestigial prostatic
tissue in the human female. Paper presented at the Annual
Regional Conference of American Association of Sex Educators,
Counsellors, and Therapists, Las Vegas.
Perry, J. and Whipple, B. (1981) Pelvic muscle strength of female
ejaculators: Evidence in support of a new theory of orgasm.
JOURNAL OF SEX RESEARCH, 17, 22-39.
Sevely, J. and Bennett, J. (1979) Concerning female ejaculation
and the female prostate. JOURNAL OF SEX RESEARCH, 14, 1-20.
Skene, A. (1880) Two important glands of the urethra. AMERICAN
JOURNAL OF OBSTETRICS, 265, 265-270.
Whipple, B. and Komisaruk, B. (1988) Analgesia produced in women
by genital self-stimulation. JOURNAL OF SEX RESEARCH, 24, 130-
140.
Zaviacic, M., Zaviacicova, A., Holoman, I., and Molcan, J.
(1988a) Female urethral expulsions evoked by local digital
stimulation of the G-spot: Differences in the response patterns.
JOURNAL OF SEX RESEARCH, 24, 311-318.
Zaviacic, M., Dolezalova, S., Holoman, K., Zaviacicova, A.,
Mikulecky, M., and Bradil, V. (1988b) Concentrations of fructose
in female ejaculate and urine: A comparative biochemical study.
JOURNAL OF SEX RESEARCH, 24, 319-325.

---------------------------------------

c3-11.    How can females ejaculate? (read c3-10 for related
          G-spot info)

From "Christopher K. Howard" <U32682@UICVM.UIC.EDU>
Date: 4 March 1992 11:00:27 CST

I have recently come across an very interesting short film of 15
minute length and is entitled "Nice Girls Don't Do It" by K
Daymond. It is a documentary styled film which discusses what it
is, how it is done and then gives directions of "how to do it"

The remaining text is printed without permission

Female ejaculation, once thought to be normal and a pleasurable
part of female sexuality came to be a symptom of the hysteric,
the content of male fantasy, and the property of pornographic
woman.

To accept female ejaculation one has to accept sameness and the
equality of male and female bodies.

Both male and female bodies have prostate gland structures along
the floor of the urethra and have potential to ejaculate fluids
during sexual stimulation.

The female body, can ejaculate fluid from 31 ducts, can with
stimulation, ejaculate repeatedly; and as well, can enjoy a
plurality of genital pleasure sites; the clitoris, urethra,
vagina...

Female ejaculation can serve only one purpose: Pleasure

The film contains scenes which show or describe the following:
-    hot sticky fluids very fluid in nature (looks like urine
     IMHO)
-    female ejaculation is so much more powerful that it
     belittles what we have always seen to be powerful in man.
-    visible pushing of vagina and urethra through vaginal
     orifice.
-    forces man's penis out to ejaculate.
-    shows scenes of woman in self bondage
-    40% of all women ejaculate
-    no high content of urine, contains prostate gland fluid
     (IMHO the colour is wrong it is clear where it would need to
     be opaque)

The following has been printed without permission:

Directions on how to ejaculate:

STEP ONE:

Find the muscle and spongy tissue around that part of your
urethra that is inside your vagina. It is about half a finger
(more or less) inside your vagina and about a finger long
across-- about two inches. If the muscles that go around your
vagina have not been used much, they can be built up by doing
contractions: pressing the top of your vagina against the bottom
and releasing. This is fun and you could have an orgasm or two.
DON'T WORRY: Strong muscles will not hold the penis in place;
they will push it out when your ducts get full and you want to
shoot.

STEP TWO:

Take two or three fingers and rub them against the part of your
urethra inside your vagina. Press hard and notice the feeling of
having to pee. You don't - this is the signal that you are ready
to ejaculate. Now, place the middle finger slightly below the
external part of your urethra and begin to masturbate the same
way you rub your clit. As you are doing this you will notice that
the two ducts, one at each side of your urethra, feel full and
perhaps somewhat painful: you have another 29 ducts scattered
over the top of your vagina. They are located in a pyramid from
your clit to just above your ovaries. Once you get into the body
feeling you will be able to locate them on the lower abdomen.
(sounds like the urinary bladder IMHO)

STEP THREE:

Take your other hand and press down on one or more of the ducts
from the outside. Push your urethra out and push the way you do
when you pee. Liquid will come out -- perhaps in a steady stream
or jet.

My Summary:
This seems to be a form of propaganda to make it a way for women
to do the same thing as a man can do. I have dissected and
studied human anatomy and there is no way this much fluid can
come from anywhere but the urinary bladder. Plus during this film
there is a tremendous amount of man bashing. Since I have posted
these instructions I invite any woman to try it and report
back!!! I am from Missouri "SHOW ME"

The summary is strictly my opinion, responses can be directed to
me.

Carlos

Subject: women who squirt
Date: 1 Apr 92 05:51:00 GMT
Organization: Carnegie Mellon, Pittsburgh, PA

Female ejaculation does not require direct g-spot stimulation.

A few days ago, I read a summary of research concerning the
g-spot and female ejaculation. The summary described the location
and activity of the g-spot, stressing that stimulation of the
spot required at least two fingers, quite far in, against the
anterior wall of the vagina.

It talked about female ejaculation as if it were a direct
consequence of hands-on stimulation of the g-spot.

Interestingly enough, two days after reading all that, I had the
privilege of observing a woman ejaculate. As in other reports,
this was in the form of a pearly liquid squirted out of the
vagina (travelling a centimetre or two) at the onset of an
orgasm. For what it's worth, the ejaculate tasted saltier than
the normal slippery stuff. Also, it left a strange aftertaste in
the back of my throat that was very similar to what I've observed
of male ejaculate.

The woman reported a much more intense orgasm than usual, but
wasn't immediately aware that she had ejaculated.

The reason I am posting about this experience (aside from the
opportunity to brag ;-) is that it differed from published
reports in an interesting way: no direct stimulation of the
g-spot was involved. In fact, no penetration at all was involved:
stimulation of the clitoris and entrance to the vagina and
previously, the nipples brought the ejaculation on. Others who
are not into penetration might want to keep this in mind, though
I don't think i can offer a formula for ejaculation as the
scientists seem to.

By way of idle speculation, I have started to wonder how much
conditioning goes into sexual response. Currently, we see men as
easy to bring off and uniquely capable of ejaculation. Since
women are apparently also capable of ejaculation, it is not
obvious that the common view is at all justified. Perhaps if
female children were taught as much as males to expect to
ejaculate, they would acquire this ability while learning to
masturbate.

---------------------------------------

c3-12.    What about Oral/vaginal sex during a woman's period?

What about it? For oral sex, this is a taste/smell issue; some
people like it, some people don't. If both partners have no
objections, go for it! I know women for whom orgasm is a
wonderful reliever of cramps.

As for vaginal sex, well, you need less lubricant. It's messy;
use something (perhaps a red towel) to protect the bedsheets. Or
do it in the shower, get clean and dirty at the same time!

---------------------------------------

c3-13.    What percent of men and women masturbate? and at what
          frequency?

According to Masters and Johnson in their book 'On Sex and Human
Loving' third printing, page 295:

     Data about masturbation are a bit tricky to interpret. You
     may recall that Kinsey and his colleagues found a wide
     discrepancy in the incidence of masturbation between male
     and female adolescents, but some recent studies suggest that
     this difference may be narrowing (see chapter 6). A similar
     trend may also be occurring in regard to masturbatory
     behavior in adulthood.
     The kinsey reports stated that 92 percent of the males and
     62 percent of the females queried had masturbated at least
     once in their lives. More recently, two separate studies
     came up with very similar statistics: The _Playboy_ survey
     (Hunt, 1975) found that 94 percent of 982 males and 63
     percent of 1,044 adult females had masturbated, and Arafat
     and Cotton's study (1974) of 435 college students found
     masturbatory experience in 89 percent of males and 61
     percent of females.
     However, Levin and Levin (1975), summarizing data from a
     _Redbook_ questionnaire survey answered by 100,000 women,
     found that almost three-quarters of the married women had
     masturbated since marriage. Providing additional evidence
     that more women seem to have tried masturbation today than
     in the past decades, Hite reported that 82 percent of her
     sample of 3,000 women had masturbatory experience.

For more details and speculations as to why the rise, techniques
used, frequency, etc -- buy the book.

---------------------------------------

c3-14.    How are the bases defined again? (ie. 1st base =
          kissing, etc.)

                            ,^.
                           < 2 >  2nd Base: Groping, copping a
                          / `.' \ feel
                        /         \
                      /             \
3rd Base:        ,^./        _        \,^.
Finger-fucking, < 3 >       |O|       < 1 > 1st Base: [French]
mutual masturb.  `.'\        -        /`.'  kissing
                      \             /
                        \         /
                          \ ___ /
                           | H |
                            \./
        Home Run: 'Going All The Way', Sexual Intercourse

---------------------------------------

c3-15.    What's the average length and width penis?

From: klaus@diku.dk (Klaus Ole Kristiansen)
Date: 16 Sep 91 07:49:09 GMT

According to the book Mandens Krop (which is translated from
English, but does not give the original title) the average is
15cm and 90% are between 13 and 18cm.

The records for a fully functional penis are 1.5 and 30cm.

-----

Source: "Race Differences in Behaviour: A Review and Evolutionary
Analysis" by J. Philippe Rushton, Dept. of Psychology, University
of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada N6A 5C2 in "Journal
of Personality and Individual Differences" Vol. 9, No. 6,
1009-1024, 1988.

According to a paper by J. Philippe Rushton, the average size for
erect penises is:

     Group               Length         Diameter

     Orientals           4 - 5.5"       1.25"
     Caucasians          5.5 - 6"       1.3 - 1.6"
     Blacks              6.25 - 8"      2"

Clitoral lengths:
     Europeans 1.2"
     Africans 2".
Xref: bloom-picayune.mit.edu alt.sex:103546 news.answers:5204
Newsgroups: alt.sex,news.answers
Path: bloom-picayune.mit.edu!enterpoop.mit.edu!thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu!homer.cs.mcgill.ca!superdj
From: superdj@cs.mcgill.ca (David JOHNSON)
Subject: [alt.sex] FAQ (3/4)
Message-ID: <C0pwFq.IEM@cs.mcgill.ca>
Followup-To: alt.sex
Summary: frequently asked questions for alt.sex
Originator: superdj@binkley.cs.mcgill.ca
Keywords: Parts c3-16 to c4-3
Sender: news@cs.mcgill.ca (Netnews Administrator)
Organization: SOCS - Mcgill University, Montreal, Canada
Date: Tue, 12 Jan 1993 01:35:50 GMT
Approved: news-answers-request@MIT.Edu
Expires: Wed, 10 Feb 1993 00:00:00 GMT
Lines: 1177

Archive-name: alt-sex/faq/part3
Last-modified: 1 Jan 1993


---------------------------------------

c3-16.    What can one do about premature ejaculation?

From "Human Sexuality" a brief edition by James Leslie McCary. D.
Van Nostrand Company, Copyright 1973, ISBN 0-442-25236-6

             The Treatment of Premature Ejaculation

Given the cooperation of his lover, a man can train himself
(except when the cause is purely physical) to withhold orgasm
until both want it to happen. The main enemy is the fear and
anxiety engendered in the man by previous failures. Once he gains
confidence in his "staying power" and accepts the fact that all
men face the problem at one time or another, the battle is half
won. To assist him toward confidence in his abilities, several
routes can be taken.

Some counsellors recommend that a local anesthetic (for example,
Nupercainal) be applied to the penile glans--care being taken not
to smear any of the ointment on the woman's vulva--a few minutes
before the beginning of intercourse. The assumption is that the
deadening effect will decrease the sensitivity of the penis and
delay ejaculation. Others prescribe the wearing of one or more
condoms to reduce the stimulation generated by the friction of
intercourse and the warmth and moisture within the vagina. Since
muscular tension is a notorious catalyst in ejaculation,
premature ejaculation may be prevented by the man's lying beneath
the woman and thus taking a more passive role in coitus. (Sexual
intercourse in the cramped confines of an automobile is
unsatisfactory for many reasons, one of which is that it often
creates muscular tension that terminates in early ejaculation.)

Some men also find that taking a drink just before coitus helps,
since alcohol is a deterrent in all physiological functioning.
Other men claim similar success through concentrating on
singularly unsexy thoughts, such as their income tax payments.
(It is suggested, however, that these men take care not to let
their partners know of their diversionary thoughts, lest they be
dumped from the bed before ejaculation, premature or otherwise!)
Having an orgasm and, after a short rest, attaining another
erection often permit a man to experience a more prolonged act of
coitus the second time. Some men masturbate shortly before they
expect to have sexual intercourse; because their sex drive will
thereby be decreased, they can then prolong intercourse later.

The technique of delaying the man's orgasm can be learned, and
probably the best method is one requiring the cooperation of both
the man and his sex partner. The best chance of success lies in
both partners' consulting a psychotherapist who will, first of
all, assure the couple that premature or early ejaculation is a
reversible phenomenon. The couple will then be instructed in the
somewhat complicated technique of bringing about the reversal of
premature ejaculation.

The technique requires that the woman manually stimulate her
partners' genitals until the point that he feels the very
earliest signs of "ejaculatory inevitability." (This is the stage
of a man's orgasmic experience at which he feels ejaculation of
seminal fluid coming, and can no longer control it.) At that
moment he signal the woman with such a pre-agreed word as "now",
and she immediately ceases her massage of the penis. She then
quickly squeezes its glans, or head, by placing her thumb on the
frenulum (on the lower surface of the glans) and two fingers on
the top of the glans, applying rather strong pressure for 3 or 4
seconds. The pressure will be uncomfortable enough to cause the
man to lose the urge to ejaculate. Such "training sessions"
should continue for 15 to 20 minutes, with alternating periods of
sexual stimulation and squeezing.

In later sessions, the man inserts his penis in the woman's
vagina as she sits astride him until he senses impending orgasm,
at which point he withdraws and she once more squeezes the penis
to stop ejaculation. Use of these techniques is continued in
further sexual encounters until, progressively, the man is
capable of prolonged sexual intercourse, in any position, without
ejaculating sooner than he wishes.

Two notes of caution should be sounded to those using this
technique. First, the technique will be unavailing if the man
himself applies the pressure to his penis; and, second, the
couple must not treat this newfound sexual skill as a game and
overdo it. If the technique is overused, the man may eventually
find that he has become insensitive to the stimulation and unable
to respond to it. He may then develop new fears, this time about
his potency, and risk developing secondary impotence. The
guidance of a therapist is strongly recommended in the treatment
of premature ejaculation to prevent such secondary problems.

Masters and Johnson report a 97.8% success rate in the treatment
of premature ejaculation.

In any discussion of premature ejaculation, a word of caution
must be injected. It is important to understand that at any one
time or another almost every man has experienced ejaculation more
swiftly than he or his partner would have liked. The essential
thing is that the man not became anxious over possible future
failures. Otherwise what is a normal, situational occurrence may
become a chronic problem.

---------------------------------------

c3-17.    Is it possible for men to be multi-orgasmic?

From: sawyer@hubble..westford.ccur.com (George Sawyer)
Keywords: NEMO, Taoist Yoga, Sexual techniques
Message-ID: <62486@masscomp.westford.ccur.com>
Date: 4 Nov 91 16:49:14 GMT

The following is a modified repost of my answer to "Postie's
query"

I study and teach Taoist esoteric yoga, and among the practices
are sexual techniques which are VERY EFFECTIVE. There are solo
techniques, and partner techniques. They require ongoing practice
and, for men, realistically speaking, the partner techniques
require a practising partner.

A basic concept is that you can have an orgasm without
ejaculating. Since ejaculation takes you through the refractory
period & etc. cycle as well as emptying your fluid level, it
tends to limit activity. Remove this constraint and you can go on
as long as you want. (Have as many orgasms as you want). When you
get close to the point of ejaculatory inevitability, you perform
the techniques, which pull the sexual energy out of your testes /
prostate up to your brain & compress the prostate causing partial
loss of erection & subsiding of prostate. When the energy moves
upward, you have an non-ejaculatory orgasm.

The only way I can describe the orgasm experience is to compare
it to some types of psychedelic drug experiences - except that
you are in control and can stop immediately if you want. The more
you practice, the longer and stronger the effects are. An orgasm
of 5 to 10 minutes is "quite easy" and you can become able to
have one of more than an hour with "determined practice". About
an hour twenty minutes is my personal best (from solo practice at
that) and I made it stop because I was getting too high.

You tend to rest for a few or several minutes after each orgasm,
being with your partner, and then optionally doing it again. Use
lots of lubricant.

There are different levels of orgasm, the initial one being a
"senses" orgasm, in which you experience amplified pleasure from
all your senses simultaneously. Since this includes touch, it is
a bodywide experience. An "unexpected" benefit for men is that
you will always have more energy after sex than before, thus
dramatically reducing the "roll off and snore" syndrome. Also,
after sex you will feel much closer to your partner and much more
connected than prior. Many people have intense experiences of
total connection and submersion into each other.

It is also a First Class system for being celibate. Completely
eliminates wet dreams, and gives you a fair amount of choice
about whether to allow yourself to become aroused or not. Over
the long term you develop some degree of control over your sexual
desire in general. Feels great (even the non-aroused solo
practice), and doesn't require "struggle and effort". The
non-aroused solo practices are being done by individuals in many
Christian monasteries & nunneries in Europe.

Downsides. NOT TO BE IGNORED
For men, it only really works if your partner practices too.
Otherwise they get BORED watching you have extended orgasms while
they wait.

Initially, it is QUITE DIFFICULT not to ejaculate, and you will
need cooperation from your partner at the WORST possible times -
"I need to stop NOW!".

It does not work well with promiscuity.

It takes time to learn - I'll say an average of 6 months to
beginning of competence and control, and requires 15min to 30min
per day of various meditative practices.

Realistically, most people don't stick to it long enough to be
able to do it. Success rate among persistent people is very high,
and the practices are not difficult.

Some women find it really weird if you don't ejaculate, and you
can really fuck up your relationship/marriage if you don't take
care of your significant other first and foremost. That is far
more important than mastery of sex techniques.

These techniques are not part of a religion, no Deities to
believe in, no statues, none of that.

The techniques are described quite clearly in:

"Taoist Secrets of Love: Cultivating Male sexual energy" (men's)

"Healing Love thru the Tao: Cultivating Female sexual energy"
(women's)

Both are written by Mantak and Manewan Chia, and widely available
at New Age bookstores.

The pre-requisite is: "Awakening Healing Energy Thru the Tao"

Most people find these reference books a bit much, and take one
day courses. There are about 70 instructors in the USA, you can
find the nearest one by calling the Healing Tao centre @ (516)
367-2701. Classes are about $85, and there is a pre-requisite
course "The Microcosmic Orbit" which is also about $85.

DO NOT IGNORE THE SAFETY POINTS IN THE BOOKS

Happy practice!

---------------------------------------

c3-18.    What are Kegel exercises?
          How can one increase the force of ejaculation?

From: sesharp@happy.colorado.edu
Message-ID: <1991Oct5.231811.1@happy.colorado.edu>
Date: 6 Oct 91 05:18:11 GMT

Kegel exercises (pronounced "Kay-gill", in case you ever actually
have a conversation about them) were invented to give women
better bladder control. They have a number of useful advantages
in sex. In women, they can help tighten the vagina, particularly
after childbirth. The muscles can also be used deliberately
during intercourse to stimulate her partner.

They have a variety of uses for men. As I already mentioned, they
strengthen the muscles used in seminal retention, making that
technique more effective. They can make ejaculation more
powerful. This may increase male enjoyment somewhat and female
enjoyment if she is sensitive to it. Deliberate twitches during
intercourse are also useful for males.

Knowing how to force relaxation of the muscles can help maintain
control and prevent premature ejaculation, as well as relieving
the muscle cramps that can occur from too many ejaculations in
succession.

For females:

My recollection of the exercise regimen taken from the older ESO
book is as follows. First you have to identify the PC muscles and
get them under conscious control. Starting and stopping urination
is one method. Inserting a finger into the vagina to feel the
contractions or watching the movement of the erect penis is
another. Once it is under control, there are three kinds of
exercises. The first is to clench the muscle and hold it for two
seconds before releasing it. The second is to bear down as though
constipated, using the abdominal muscles to force the PC muscles
to relax. I find that alternating reps of these two works well.
The third exercise is a fast twitch of the muscle, with
repetitions as close together as possible, similar to orgasmic
contractions. An initial set of exercises consists of 10
repetitions of each exercise. Five sets should be performed in a
day. As strength improves, the number of repetitions in a set is
increased. Around 30 repetitions in a set is suggested as a good
number for retaining good muscle tone. The exercises are
unobtrusive and can be performed almost anywhere.

For males:

Kegel exercises might indeed help with [increasing the force of
ejaculation]. Here is how they are performed by males. First you
have to learn to consciously control the muscles. One way of
doing this is to use them to stop and start urination repeatedly.
When you have an erection, contracting them causes it to move,
making them easy to identify. Once you have the muscles
identified, there are three types of exercises to do:

1)   try contracting the muscles and holding them that way for a
     slow count of ten. You may not be able to last that long at
     first, but that is why you are exercising.
2)   force them to relax by bearing down as though you were
     constipated and trying to force a bowel movement.
3)   twitch (contract and release) the muscles as fast as you can
     ten times in a row. I find that it works well to alternate
     each of the first type with one of the second type. I don't
     recall how many of these are recommended. Something like ten
     of each to start, eventually working up to a hundred.

In addition to the possibility of increasing the force of
ejaculation, these may increase the number of contractions and
the total enjoyment. The same muscles can also be used to reduce
the amount of semen in an ejaculation by contracting them as hard
as possible during it. This leaves a less than satisfied feeling,
usually accompanied by an urgent desire for another orgasm 10 to
20 minutes later. This can be useful if your partner wants more
sex than you do. Supposedly, increasing the strength of the
muscles can increase this effect to allow quite a few orgasms in
a row.

---------------------------------------

c3-19.    What are some good positions to try out?

The Teachings of Kama Sutra:
(See Appendix 3. The list is long enough to warrant its own
section.)

From the net (* indicates beginning of a new post):

*    Both are variations of the missionary position and can be
     done with either person on top:

     1)   Instead of the usual man's legs inside the woman's
          legs, have the man place one leg _outside_ the woman's
          legs. The allows a "sideways" penetration which makes
          my SO happy.
     2)   Place _both_ man's legs outside the woman's legs. This
          causes inward pressure on the vagina and clitoris and
          tightens the vagina. We both like this very much :)
          Note: If the woman is on top you must be careful not to
          crush the man's testicles :(

*    Have her lay on her side, bottom leg straight and top leg
     bent at the knee, which is in the air. You approach her,
     sitting up, straddling her bottom leg and enter her this
     way. This allows for *deep* entry which your SO may or may
     not like.

*    Penile thrusting from the right angle can pull the labia
     enough to give amazing clitoral stimulation. I usually find
     this happens most with rear-entry positions.

*    The first is with the woman on top, her legs straight and
     directly over the man's, pushing her weight backwards and
     forwards with her arms (above the man's shoulders);

     The other is basically the same thing with the man on top,
     sliding forward and backward.

     We also occasionally use a position with her legs inside
     mine, but on top. We both have to be pretty energetic for
     this, though. It seems to produce intense sensation,
     increased tightness and friction, etc., but we've never been
     able to make it lead to an orgasm for my partner.

*    Have the guy lie on his back legs spread wide. Have her
     mount with her back towards you. Now, with your thigh
     between her legs bend your knee slightly, this way she can
     bounce her clit on your thigh with each stroke. With your
     leg you can control how much she gets... straighten out your
     leg and she has to go down further to get the same
     stimulation. Guess it works well for me 'cause of my 18"
     thighs. ;)

*    A recent x-SO of mine had a favourite position, and I was
     wondering if other women enjoy this also. I would enter her
     from behind (just like doggy style), then while I was fully
     inserted she would lie down with me on top of her. We would
     both place our hands underneath her (just above where I was
     inserted. Then she would wiggle almost methodically. I
     assume this put great pressure on the clitoris. However
     after a short time she would orgasm and even sometimes
     multiple.

*    My ex-SO much preferred doggy style. She indicated that that
     was the right level of penetration. What is the position
     called that has man on top, woman with legs up so far that
     her knees are practically at her ears? My ex-SO did not like
     that, she said penetration was too deep. Same thing with her
     on top, but sitting up, making her body at right angles to
     mine. Also, she says that doggy style caused some
     stimulation of the clitoral and pudendal region that wasn't
     there in other positions, presumably because of the movement
     of tissues around the outside of the vagina during
     intercourse.

Upside-down position:

*    That question on the purity test refers to (I believe) the
     people being opposite - ie one standing upright and one
     standing on their hands or head. This is a fun one, but you
     have to be careful that you don't stand up too quickly
     afterwards if you have been upside down or you could
     possibly pass out.

OR

*    Have her sitting on the edge of the bed, facing away from
     the edge, on your lap. Lean over forwards, holding on to a
     handy dresser. She does a handstand, and you hold yourself
     up with one hand and hold both of you together with the
     other. Good for some giggles.

*    We prefer it with the man on his back, with lots of pillows
     under his rear end, propping him up. I then mount directly
     on top, one leg between his and the other between his leg
     and arm, i.e. I am at a 90 angle with him, sort of
     squatting, at least initially :-)

     If I then lean forward and move up and down and around, the
     combination of deep penetration and frontal rubbing of my
     clitoris on his leg makes for a very interesting
     combination.

*    standing up... my girlfriend's hanging on to my shoulders,
     and her legs definitely don't touch the ground.

*    My SO likes really deep penetration. She likes "doggie-
     style" but she prefers variations of "in the buck" (legs
     over the man's shoulders to provide deeper penetration.)
     Actually, as long as you get your arms under her knees it
     provides the same effect -- some women, my SO included, find
     it extremely uncomfortable to have their knees pressed all
     the way up to their chest during intercourse and just
     putting your arms under her knees or legs will lift her rear
     up and arch her back, giving you a better angle to penetrate
     at. Also, since your arms are under her legs, you are
     supporting some of her weight, so she doesn't have to hold
     her own rear up for you.

     When we get into this position, I've found that she prefers
     a sort of rocking motion as opposed to a straight in-and-out
     thrusting (try bending your own legs so that your knees come
     up about even with her hips, then you'll be almost cradling
     her in your lap and if you rock back and forth you will stay
     inside and alternate between plunging deep and not- so-
     deep-- this has been the easiest way for me to bring her to
     orgasm).

     Another thing she likes is to get on top and face away from
     me. I'm living in a college apartment and I've got the
     bottom bunk and the bed above has bars under it. I can grab
     one of these bars and pull myself up into her, and if I go
     fast and hard enough, we can get the bed bouncing pretty
     good and she actually bounces up off of my penis and plunges
     back down onto it. She really enjoys this but it's tough for
     me to do it for very long.

---------------------------------------

c3-20.    What is the M-spot?

From: (unknown)
I don't know if the spot I'm talking about is really the
"M-spot," or not. There's actually a *pair* of these "spots." You
stimulate them from outside the body, unlike the G-spot, which
you get at from inside the vagina. These "M-spots" are on both
men and women!

They're not easy to find, and you've got to already be somewhat
sexually aroused, I think, or it won't feel like anything. I
think you probably also have to be ticklish, but maybe not.

Stand up. Take your shirt and pants off. Put your hands on your
hips. Now, feel how your hands are resting on a big "shelf" of
bone? That's your pelvic bone. Grip that bone, and get a feel for
the shape of it in that area. Now, concentrate on where the tips
of your fingers are. Feel around that area. Relax your stomach
muscles completely. (Try sitting down if it helps you relax that
area.) If you have big hands, or a small waist, your fingertips
are probably already on "the spots." Otherwise, move your hands
forward, around towards the front of you a little bit, until you
find the edge of that bone, on both sides. Now reach around that
ridge of bone, pressing in on the sides of your tummy. Dig in
with your fingertips. That's it! They're *right* on the edge of
that bone, off the insides of it, not off the top of it. Your
fingertips should be somewhere just below and to the sides of
your belly-button.

I can't describe it any better than that. It's probably easier to
find if your partner does the searching, instead. If you look for
the spots yourself, you could be pressing right in them and not
know it, because it's like trying to tickle yourself -- it just
doesn't work.

Get naked with your partner, do some normal foreplay for a while,
and get to where you're really ready for sex. Then have your
partner stand behind you, and have him/her put their hands on
your hips, as if you were, then proceed as given above. If they
push and poke around in that area long enough, they're bound to
find the spots. They might end up just tickling you to death,
though. :-) (If it tickles, they're not pressing hard enough.)

When they do find your M-spots, you will KNOW IT. You will feel a
fire light up inside you. Within moments, you will want to turn
around and kiss your partner so hard they suffocate. It is VERY
intense. It's kind of uncomfortable, at first, and you can't take
it for very long.

If you're SO is "moving too slow" during foreplay, go for these
spots. Things will speed up REAL fast.

Good luck...

Sorc

Re: M-spot
I've experienced something like this, although she (my girlfriend
at the time, not a prostitute :-) touched a spot to either side
of the navel, not directly below it. 1 - 2 inches down is about
right, but then 2 - 3 inches over. It's right on the inside of
the pelvic bone. If you're wearing jeans, and you casually hang
your thumbs over those first two belt loops, the tips of your
thumbs are right there.

This wasn't just a "male" thing -- it worked on her, too. It's
just ticklish if you do it too lightly, but press a little more
firmly, and it's *very* intense. It's not really orgasm-inducing,
but it turns light arousal into high arousal *really* fast. Get
ready for your partner to *tackle* you if you do this right. Use
several fingers and kind of "push in" on it, like you're kneading
dough with your fingers.

So, I don't know if this is the "M-spot," but it's definitely
some kind of spot. :-) And it was great for warming up, but I
don't know what it'd be like having it stimulated during actual
intercourse. If she was on top, so the guy was relatively
stationary, and she did that "kneading" while "riding"... hm...
I'll put that on my list of things to try. :-)

---------------------------------------

c3-21.    What are blue balls?

From: markley@grad1.cis.upenn.edu (Jim Markley)

Blue Balls is a real condition! The "correct" term for blue balls
is epididymitis, which is an inflammation of the epididymis. So
what is an epididymis, you ask?

Well from the library dictionary -- an elongated mass at the back
of the testis composed chiefly of the greatly convoluted efferent
tubes of that organ.

In simple terms blue balls most commonly occurs when the
epididymis get blocked up when the sperm leave the testis but not
the penis. The "efferent tubes" are the conduit for the sperm
from the testis to the urethra. When they get blocked you get
pain. Why blue balls and not "swollen balls," well maybe the
connotation is that you balls have the "blues", or maybe its
because with all that swelling some of the blood flow is
restricted enough to cause some blueing of the area because of
pooling blood.

------------------------------------

c3-22.    Is spanish fly dangerous?

From: japlady@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (Rebecca Radnor)
Subject: Re: Aphrodisiacs??? does really work???

There is this great show on CNBC called steals and deals that
recently did a week on sex related stuff. They said that most of
the spanish fly stuff that is sold is basically sugar water. The
real machoy is illegal, and an overdose can be lethal. (I think
they said it will give you a permanent hard-on that can develop
gangrene and need to be surgically amputated, but I'm not sure.)
There are some places that are selling it, but on the show they
said that the risks are far to high compared to the benefits.

From: gwh0621@Msu.oscs.montana.edu (The Bedroom Commando)
Subject: Spanish Fly

Spanish Fly has been used for almost a century that I am aware of
along the Mexican-American Border by the Cattle Industry for
breeding purposes. It has not, nor was it EVER intended for use
by males... it was administered to cows orally... for the purpose
of procreation (albeit heightened somewhat) of a new line of
calves.

Spanish fly is a powder of ground up wings of the CANTHARIS
VESICATORIA beetle of the Southwest desert. As a child, I have
had these light brown 1/2 inch long beetles alight upon my skin,
and the noticeable resultant 'burn' was the same that one would
receive if a drop of sulphuric acid had been placed there!

One can find these beetles attracted to the lights around service
stations and truck stops in the Southwest and many tourists
leave, taking with them, the telltale burn mark of the Cantharide
beetle every summer.

Its use in the industry has been long discontinued in the US, but
can still be found among the peon ranchers of Northern Mexico.

One other thing, it is highly poisonous if taken internally. Much
of this information can also be found in the "Taber's Cyclopedic
Medical Dictionary"... Don't be misled that I'm on Net in
Montana... I was born and raised on a ranch in the Sonoran-Desert
Mountains of Southeast Arizona.

------------------------------------

c3-23.    Is it possible to get pregnant from anal sex?

From: elf@halcyon.com (Elf Sternberg) 
Subject: simple question 

It is not *technically* possible to get pregnant from anal sex;
there is no way for semen to get from the rectal tract to the
vaginal tract.

However, anal sex is still not a very good method of birth
control. Semen leaking from the anus after intercourse may drip
across the perineum (the short stretch of skin separating vulva
and anus) and cause what is known as a 'splash' conception. The
failure rate for this is surprisingly high! 8% of couples of who
use anal sex as a method of birth control have babies each year.

------------------------------------

c3-24.    Should I buy a vibrator?
          What kind of vibrators are there?
          Do vibrators 'desensitize' women?
          Can I be replaced by a vibrator?

From: elf@halcyon.com (Elf Sternberg) 

Vibrators come in three distinct 'types'. Many women find
satisfaction in this most common (and more often thought of), the
classic penis-shaped, battery powered shaft of plastic. These
suffer, however, from a lack of real power and inconvenient
battery death.

The second type of vibrator, the 'wand' vibrator, overcomes these
problems with wall current. These large, club-shaped vibrators
provide LOTS of stimulation, and wall current provides all the
power you could ask for, but the designers apparently intended
for people not to view these things as sex toys, but as "personal
massagers," and the ungainliness of these things reflects that.

The third type of vibrator, the 'handle' type, looks vaguely like
a small hairdryer with a small, perpendicular shaft out of the
thicker end to accommodate a variety of soft plastic or latex
heads. The best of all possible worlds, these vibrators never
die, fit in one hand, and can provide a variety of sensations.

Shower Massagers make a wonderful variation on the classic
vibrator, and if you enjoy the warmth and wetness of the tub, you
probably want to consider investing in a shower massager. Like
the wand and handle vibrators, shower massagers have a host of
uses beyond masturbation, too!

BUYING A VIBRATOR: Don't make buying a vibrator a traumatizing
experience. If you MUST have one of those penis-shaped things,
most lingerie shops carry them. But most department stores sell
the 'wand' or 'handle' vibrators under the guise of "personal
massagers," and buying one from reputable department stores means
a warranty, you can return it if unsatisfied, and it won't have
"Doc Johnson's Love Machine" emblazoned across it in pink letters
in case mother comes to visit.

CAVEAT: Before using any mechanical vibrator, apply lubrication!
Your lover probably does not rank friction burns in the same
category as love bites. Use a water-based lubricant, such as K-Y
(always recommended), Aegis, or Wet.

CAVEAT: Do not purchase a vibrator specifically designed to
deliver heat to the body as a sexual device. If they work on
muscles, great, but don't use them on your cunts and cocks. I
know of at least one case where a woman burned herself with one
of these things because her climaxes were so strong she didn't
notice how much the heater had burned her.

RECOMMENDATION: I prefer the 'handle' type myself, with the
Con-Air and the Oster "personal massagers" as my all-time
favourites. Oster makes a 'heating' type of vibrator, as well, so
be careful when you buy.

ADVICE: Nobody knows how to masturbate YOU better than you do,
and the same rule applies to everybody else. Don't use a vibrator
on someone else until you've watched them use it on themselves,
preferably several times. Men, especially, should watch how their
girlfriends/ wives use the vibrator alone before taking the
reins.

No mechanical piece of plastic can replace the love and affection
of a human being; try to see the vibrator as just another toy,
and not as competition.  Some women do experience a temporary
'desensitization' after the effects of a powerful vibrator, but
put the toy away for a week and sensitivity returns to normal.
Vibrators do not cause long-term desensitization.

Should you buy a vibrator? That's a decision only you can make; I
personally have bought two for my wife, and a shower massage, and
they've made our sex life a whole lot better, not worse. As
always, your mileage may vary.

=================================================================

Category 4.    SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASES

A quick table of current treatment effectiveness:
     Gonorrhea:     curable
     Syphilis:      curable in early stages
     Herpes:        incurable, but effective treatment available.
     HPV:           incurable, but treatment available.
     Chlamydia:     curable
     Lice:          curable
     AIDS:          incurable, but some treatment available.
     Hepatitis B:   incurable, but vaccine available.

c4-1.     How is the AIDS virus transmitted? and what does a HIV
          test show?

(From: Travis Lee Winfrey <travis@ZONKER.gs.com>)

"AIDS is caused by the Human Immuno-deficiency Virus (HIV). In a
person infected with HIV, the virus can be present in the body's
semen, blood, and breast milk. It can also be present, in much
smaller quantities, in vaginal secretion, saliva, and tears.

The AIDS virus can be transmitted via any of these fluids, but
only the first two -- semen and blood -- are likely to be
involved. Anal sex is the most commonly _perceived_ method of
transfer, but vaginal sex has been repeatedly shown to transmit
HIV. Men are less likely than women to be infected through
vaginal sex, but they have, in fact, been infected this way.
Cunnilingus and fellatio have also been established as capable of
transmitting the virus. Sexual activities, not sexual
orientation, transmit the virus.

HIV cannot be passed on through casual contact, hugging, hand-
shaking, touching the sweat of an infected person, or mosquito
bites. HIV can pass through non-latex or "natural" condoms, such
as Fourex Lambskin condoms. HIV transmission has nothing whatever
to do with the presence of feces in anal sex.

The HIV test shows the presence of antibodies to HIV. It does not
show the presence of the virus: the body first has to develop
antibodies, which normally takes about six weeks. Hence, a
positive result means that someone has antibodies and could
possibly develop AIDS in the future. A negative result means that
someone does not have antibodies _at the moment_. If there is a
reason to think that exposure was more recent than six weeks,
then a test taken immediately can only serve as a baseline to
compare against a test taken later. Within six months of HIV
infection, 99% of the population will test positive. No one
should be tested for HIV without first obtaining counselling and
ensuring _beforehand_ support from his or her family or friends.

The following numbers may be of use.

AIDS Hotline                            (800) 342-2437
AIDS Information Clearing House         (800) 458-5231 9-7 EST
CDC AIDS Ethnicity, Age recording       (404) 330-3020
CDC AIDS Transmission mode recording    (404) 330-3021
CDC AIDS Top 10, Projections recording  (404) 330-3022

---------------------------------------

c4-2.     What is HPV (human papilloma virus)? Treatment?

*** The writer raises several good questions, which are still ***
*** unanswered. Any help will be greatly appreciated.         ***

From: loredich@miavx3.mid.muohio.edu (Loredich)
Subject: HPV and genital warts: a dossier
Message-ID: <427.294a72cb@miavx3.mid.muohio.edu>
Date: 15 Dec 91 02:08:27 GMT

HPV (human papilloma virus) is, like any virus, resistant to
antibiotic therapy. Once a human is infected with the virus,
there is no known treatment.

HPV can cause warts to appear on the genitals, on the head of the
penis in men, and both internally and externally in women. These
warts have been inconclusively linked to cervical cancer in
women.

There is no reliable examination or culture that will reveal the
presence of the virus unless warts have already developed, as far
as I understand it. Is there anyone with differing information?
Is it possible to diagnose HPV without the actual appearance of
warts?

The diagnostic procedure for women is called a colposcopy, which
involves an examination of the cervix with a microscope-like
device. The procedure for men involves an application of a
solution to the penis which turns the warts white, making them
easily visible. A similar examination for women involves the
application of white vinegar, which makes the woman smell like a
salad for several days afterward.

The virus is transmissible through sexual contact. However, there
seems to be some disagreement over the likelihood of transmission
when no warts are present. The gurus at Planned Parenthood swear
that the virus is transmissible at any time, with or without
warts. But several letters I received declared that transmission
is highly unlikely unless warts are present: apparently, the
virus is not close enough to the surface of the skin to cause
damage if no warts are visible. The jury is still out on this
one. Anyone know for sure?

Once the warts appear, they are removed either by freezing,
burning, or laser surgery (which sounds like the least unpleasant
option). Now, the virus itself does not go away, I was told, but
the warts do once they are removed. Do they reappear? The
consensus seems to be that they generally do not. One woman who
wrote to me declared that she had seen no warts in seven years.
Has anyone had recurring warts?

No real word on whether oral sex is a bad idea. When the warts
are present, I can't imagine that it would be too terribly
pleasant, but wartlessly, is there a high risk of transmission?
Again, Planned Parenthood shrieked in dismay and issued a stern
"NO!" when I asked, but I am not quite sure how reliable their
information has been. Does anyone know about this? Plenty of
readers have suggested that oral sex be performed with a condom,
but I am also concerned with being the receptive partner in this.
Can oral sex be safely performed WITHOUT a condom or dental dam?

Response from (anonymous)

The serotypes of this virus that commonly cause venereal warts
are associated with cervical cancer. Other serotypes of the virus
have been linked to other malignancies. As to transmission of HPV
in the absence of visible warts, even if no microscopic warts are
present, the mechanical trauma of sex is known to cause at least
microscopic damage to the skin/mucosa of the genitals that may
provide a means of transmission of this virus. The presence of
visible warts only increases the likelihood of such a
transmission occurring in the absence of adequate barriers to
transmission. HPV can be detected in a PAP smear as cellular
atypia, but I believe that a PAP smear has a low sensitivity for
detecting HPV.

---------------------------------------

c4-3.     The major sexually transmitted disease (STDs) and their
          symptoms (Gonorrhea, Syphilis, Genital Herpes, AIDS,
          Pubic Lice (Crabs), Nonspecific Urethritis (NSU),
          Hepatitis B are covered.)

From: mf2x+@andrew.cmu.edu (Michael Raymond Feely)
Date: 13 Oct 91 01:35:57 GMT

All information is courtesy of "On Sex and Human Loving", Masters
and Johnson Copyright 1985. All typos are mine, but sadly, this
newsreader doesn't have a spell checker on it. Further info on
the development times and the percentage of asymptomatic cases of
AIDS would be appreciated...

Gonorrhea
---------

Transmission:       Intercourse, fellatio, anal sex, cunnilingus,
                    kissing (infrequently) Women run a roughly
                    50% chance of contracting the disease after
                    one session of intercourse, men 20-25%.

MALE Symptoms:      Yellowish discharge from the penis. Painful,
                    frequent urination. Symptoms develop from two
                    to thirty days after infection. Roughly 10%
                    of men have no symptoms.
                    Later stages of the infection may move into
                    the prostate, seminal vesicles, and
                    epididymis, causing severe pain and fever.
                    Untreated, gonorrhea can lead to sterility in
                    a small minority of cases.

UPDATE:             Traditionally, gonorrhea in the male was
                    thought to be a symptomatic disease as
                    described above. More recently it has been
                    recognized that a significant number of males
                    have asymptomatic gonorrhea. As asymptomatic
                    infections can lead to the same complications
                    as symptomatic infections and can be
                    transmitted in the same way, it is important
                    for men to realize that an exposure needs to
                    be investigated whether or not there are
                    symptoms. Also, a complication of gonorrhea
                    not mentioned above is septic arthritis
                    (infected joint). While the infection itself
                    is easy to treat, this can severely damage
                    the involved joint (often the knee) leading
                    to a permanent disability.

FEMALE Symptoms:    Under half of women with gonorrhea show no
                    symptoms, or symptoms so mild they are
                    commonly ignored. Early symptoms include
                    increased vaginal discharge, irritation of
                    the external genitals, pain or burning on
                    urination and abnormal menstrual bleeding.
                    Women who are untreated may develop severe
                    complications. The infection will usually
                    spread to the uterus, Fallopian tubes, and
                    ovaries, causing Pelvic Inflammatory Disease
                    (PID). PID, though not only caused by
                    gonorrhea, is the most common cause of female
                    infertility. Early symptoms of PID are lower
                    abdominal pain, fever, nausea, vomiting, and
                    pain during intercourse.

Syphilis
--------

Transmission:       Nominally sexual contact, but can be
                    transmitted by blood transfusion or from an
                    infected pregnant woman to her fetus.

Symptoms:
PRIMARY STAGE:      A chancre sore develops at the site of
                    infection from two to four weeks after
                    infection has occurred. The chancre is
                    painless 75% of the time. The chancre starts
                    as a dull red spot, turns into a pimple,
                    which ulcerates, forming a round or oval sore
                    with a red rim. The sore heals in 4-6 weeks -
                    however, the infection is still present. The
                    chancre is usually found on the genitals or
                    anus, but can appear on any part of the skin.

SECOND STAGE:       One week to six months after the chancre
                    heals. Pale red or pinkish rash appears
                    (often on palms or soles) fever, sore throat,
                    headaches, joint pains, poor appetite, weight
                    loss, hair loss. Moist sores may appear
                    around the genitals or anus and are highly
                    infectious. Symptoms usually last three to
                    six months, but can come and go.

LATENT STAGE:       No apparent symptoms, and the carrier is no
                    longer contagious. However, the organism is
                    insinuating itself into the host's tissues.
                    50 to 70 percent of carriers pass the rest of
                    their lives without the disease leaving this
                    stage. The reminder pass into Third Stage
                    syphilis.

THIRD STAGE:        Serious heart problems, eye problems, brain
                    and spinal cord damage, with a high
                    probability of paralysis, insanity, blindness
                    or death.

From: (anonymous)

While all of the symptoms mentioned are possible (as well as
others), it usually manifests with a limited number of these
symptoms at any one time (often just one). In the past, syphilis
was known as the great imitator because it could resemble almost
any known illness (It was said that "To know syphilis was to know
medicine.") Modern diagnostic techniques now make this a much
simpler disease to diagnose, especially in the early stages. The
statement in the FAQ that later stages of syphilis are not
curable is IMHO wrong. There is some controversy on this point in
treating advanced neurosyphilis, but I believe this represents
difficulties in evaluating the effectiveness of treatment in the
short term in these patients. I believe patients who are not
successfully treated represent treatment failures not incurable
disease. Having said this, let me point out that damage by the
disease prior to treatment is not reversible, although it is
often treatable.

Genital Herpes
--------------

Transmission:       Generally by sexual contact. Direct contact
                    with infected genitals can cause transmission
                    via intercourse, rubbing genitals together,
                    oral genital contact, anal sex, or oral anal
                    contact. In addition, normally protected
                    areas of skin can become infected if there is
                    a cut, rash, sore. Herpes viruses can be
                    spread in some instances by kissing, if one
                    participant has the infection sited in or
                    near the mouth.

Symptoms:           Herpes is marked by clusters of small,
                    painful blisters on the genitals. After a few
                    days, the blisters burst, leaving small
                    ulcers. In men, the blisters usually appear
                    on the penis, but can appear in the urethra
                    or rectum.
                    In women, they usually appear on the labia,
                    but can appear on the cervix and anal area.
                    First outbreaks are accompanied by fever,
                    headache, and muscle soreness for two or more
                    consecutive days in 39% of men and 68% of
                    women. Other relatively common symptoms
                    include painful urination discharge from the
                    urethra or vagina, and tender, swollen lymph
                    nodes in the groin. These symptoms tend to
                    disappear within two weeks. Aseptic
                    meningitis occurs in 8 percent of cases, eye
                    infections in 1% of cases, and infection of
                    the cervix in 88% of infected women. Skin
                    lesions last on average 16.5 days in men,
                    19.7 in women. Secondary symptoms are most
                    prominent in the first four days and then
                    gradually diminish.

Recurrence:         None in 10% of cases. Frequency for the
                    remaining population is from once a month to
                    once every few years. The majority of
                    sufferers do not have repeat attacks after a
                    few years. Most repeat attacks are less
                    severe than the initial attack.

AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome)
-----------------------------------------

Transmission:       Sexual contact, sharing IV needles, blood
                    transfusion (Note that blood is now routinely
                    screened for HIV) Note also that the HIV
                    virus is significantly less likely to be
                    transmitted than the gonorrhea or syphilis
                    bacteria.

Symptoms:           No single pattern exists. Most common
                    symptoms are progressive, inexplicable weight
                    loss, persistent fever, swollen lymph nodes,
                    and reddish purple coin sized spots on the
                    skin (These spots are Kaposi's sarcoma, a
                    form of cancer) When symptoms appear, they
                    may remain unchanged for months, or may be
                    followed by any one of a number of
                    opportunistic infections. Typically these
                    include pneumocystis carinii, an unusual form
                    of pneumonia, fungal infections,
                    tuberculosis, and various herpes forms.
                    Treatment may fend off these infections,
                    however the typical course is for one
                    overwhelming infection to follow another
                    until the victim succumbs due to the immune
                    system's failure to return to a normal state,
                    and hence, the opportunistic infection's
                    relative freedom to wreak havoc on the
                    victim's systems. It is possible for AIDS to
                    be asymptomatic for prolonged periods of time
                    while still being contagious.

                    On the significance of symptoms of HIV
                    separate from infections:

                    While most AIDS patients do eventually die
                    of/with various opportunistic infections, the
                    significance of the chronic wasting can not
                    be ignored. In the early days of AIDS, there
                    were patients that by current definitions
                    clearly had AIDS, but were never classified
                    as such since they died of the "dwindles"
                    before acquiring an opportunistic infection
                    that would have made that diagnosis.
                    Also, there has been much discussion of the
                    minimal time until HIV seroconversion. It
                    should be noted that patients with advanced
                    HIV disease can become "HIV negative" as they
                    lose the ability to make antibodies to HIV
                    (this does not represent an improvement in
                    the condition). A final comment on HIV: the
                    opportunistic infections encountered in HIV
                    infection are generally acquired common
                    environmental pathogens or acquired from the
                    host themselves. This is why HIV wards do not
                    serve to infect all occupants with all
                    diseases present.

Pubic Lice (Crabs)
------------------

Transmission:       Nominally through sexual contact, however
                    they may be picked up through use of sheets,
                    towels or clothing used by an infected
                    person.

Symptoms:           Intense itching, usually felt mostly at
                    night. Some victims have no symptoms, others
                    may develop an allergic rash.

Nonspecific Urethritis (NSU)
----------------------------

(Most commonly - Chlamydia trachomatous and T. mycoplasma)

Transmission:       Some cases are allergic or chemical
                    reactions, and are not transmitted per se.
                    Others are through sexual contact.

Symptoms:           Similar to gonorrhea but usually milder.
                    Urethral discharge is generally thin and
                    clear. Some cases are asymptomatic.

Also:               This can also precipitate a condition called
                    Reiter's syndrome in susceptible persons.

The Facts on Hepatitis B
------------------------

What is Hepatitis B?

Hepatitis B, a potentially deadly, sexually transmitted disease,
is not selective about who it infects: anyone can get hepatitis
B. Yet, even though it affects the lives of hundreds of thousands
in the United States, most people know very little about this
serious disease.

The hepatitis B virus has been spreading rapidly in the United
States, with 14 Americans dying each day from hepatitis B-related
illnesses. Chances are you know at least one person with
hepatitis B because one in 20 Americans has been infected with
the virus.

Why is Hepatitis B Called a Sexually Transmitted Disease?

Hepatitis B is not commonly thought of as a sexually transmitted
disease. The fact is that it is commonly spread through sex, just
like AIDS, syphilis, herpes and gonorrhea. The number of
Americans who have contracted hepatitis B through sex has almost
doubled in the last decade.

Who Can get Hepatitis B?

Because it is extremely contagious--100 times more contagious
than AIDS--anyone can get hepatitis B. But you are in even
greater danger if:

o    you have had more than one sexual partner in the last six
     months
o    you have had unprotected sex (without a condom)
o    you or your partner have ever been diagnosed with a sexually
     transmitted disease (such as herpes, gonorrhea, syphilis,
     chlamydia, genital warts or AIDS)
o    you or your partner have had sexual contact with someone who
     has had hepatitis B, or someone who is in one of the
     categories listed above

What Are the Symptoms?

About half of those who get hepatitis B will suffer from an
inflammation of the liver, called acute hepatitis. Many people
with hepatitis B mistake the symptoms for other illnesses, such
as the flu, while others are more seriously affected and may miss
school or work for months. Some of the symptoms caused by
hepatitis B are:

o    mild, flu-like illness
o    skin rashes and arthritis
o    nausea
o    vomiting
o    loss of appetite
o    malaise
o    abdominal pain
o    jaundice (yellowing of the eyes and skin)

What Happens if I Get Hepatitis B?

Those who become chronically infected with hepatitis B have
substantially higher risk of developing liver cancer than the
general population. But even if you don't get liver cancer, the
effects of hepatitis B infection can be so severe that you may
not be able to go to school or work for several months.

Then there are those who don't even know they have hepatitis B.
We call them the "silent carriers". This group of symptomless
carriers can pass the disease on to countless others unknowingly
(and may eventually get very ill themselves).

NOTE: THERE IS NO KNOWN CURE FOR HEPATITIS B although there is a
vaccine. Ask a physician for more information.

After May 1, you can call 1-800-HEP-B-873 for referral to a
physician near you who can answer questions.

Because the transmission of different STDs are not independent,
persons who acquire _any_ STD are at considerably greater risk
(epidemiologically) of acquiring other STDs. Persons diagnosed
with one STD should be examined for other STDs at that time
(Multiple infections are possible!!!). Persons who have ever had
a STD (except lice, "crabs") should be aware of whatever was done
that led them to acquire that STD.

It is now recommended that all children receive the vaccine. It
has been shown to be effective and is administered in 3 doses.
The current version is made using recombinant DNA techniques and
does NOT carry the potential for infection with other diseases,
as previous vaccines did. Currently, any adult with potential
occupational exposure to HB are suggested to receive the vaccine
(for example, health care workers, ambulance personnel). However,
there is a movement towards vaccinating all individuals [as is
economically possible] since the vaccine is very safe [no known
serious adverse reactions] and HB can be potentially fatal.
Xref: bloom-picayune.mit.edu alt.sex:103547 news.answers:5205
Newsgroups: alt.sex,news.answers
Path: bloom-picayune.mit.edu!enterpoop.mit.edu!thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu!homer.cs.mcgill.ca!superdj
From: superdj@cs.mcgill.ca (David JOHNSON)
Subject: [alt.sex] FAQ (4/4)
Message-ID: <C0pwG9.IFG@cs.mcgill.ca>
Followup-To: alt.sex
Summary: frequently asked questions for alt.sex
Originator: superdj@binkley.cs.mcgill.ca
Keywords: Parts c4-4 to End
Sender: news@cs.mcgill.ca (Netnews Administrator)
Organization: SOCS - Mcgill University, Montreal, Canada
Date: Tue, 12 Jan 1993 01:36:08 GMT
Approved: news-answers-request@MIT.Edu
Expires: Wed, 10 Feb 1993 00:00:00 GMT
Lines: 1037

Archive-name: alt-sex/faq/part4
Last-modified: 1 Jan 1993


---------------------------------------

c4-4.     What are venereal warts? Treatment?

From: masandy@ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu

Venereal warts: incurable, but treatable

It's unfortunate that these viral infections can't be cured and I
don't even know if the treatment is sufficient, but I guess
there's nothing that can be done about it. I would like to stress
that unprotected sex with a new partner REGARDLESS of whether or
not there are any signs of warts is strongly discouraged.

There are a few treatments out there: liquid nitrogen, electro-
cauterization, laser cauterization, topical creams and liquids.

Liquid nitrogen:         can be painful, but not from the
                         treatment itself. In order for the warts
                         to stop re-appearing, your body must
                         first recognize the problem and form
                         antibodies against it. As long as the
                         antibodies keep the virus from
                         advancing, they will be less likely to
                         show up. Also, this prevents the virus
                         from spreading SOMEWHAT. It's like a flu
                         virus. If no physical symptoms show up,
                         you are unlikely to spread it. However,
                         like the flu, if symptoms do occur and
                         warts show up, it shows that your body's
                         defenses have let down their guard
                         temporarily and let that virus advance.
                         To get your immune system to concentrate
                         on the area, you must first damage the
                         skin in some way, such as liquid
                         nitrogen. This is the painful part: in
                         addition to freezing the warts, you must
                         burn the surrounding skin area to get
                         your T-cells to concentrate on the area.
                         This helps your body to control the
                         virus.

Electrocauterization:    same thing, but instead of freezing
                         them, it burns them off electrically and
                         cauterizes ("seals") the skin so that no
                         open wounds are present. First the
                         immediate infected area is numbed (small
                         needle prick and pain is over) and then
                         they are burned off. Pretty simple and
                         more preferable to liquid nitrogen.

Laser:                   haven't heard much about this, but I
                         would assume that it is more costly than
                         electro or liquid nitro. Probably uses
                         the same technique as electro, but with
                         more precision and less pain.

Topical creams:          Painless, greaseless, topical creams can
                         be helpful for some cases. EFUDEX 5% is
                         probably at the top of the treatment
                         cream list at this time. Supposedly
                         works within 1 month and acts to kill
                         the foreign tissue. I don't know if the
                         rate of recurrence is higher for creams
                         or cauterization, but that rate is
                         definitely present and depends on how
                         well your body first reacts to the
                         virus. If more antibodies are made and
                         you don't have much stress in your life,
                         you should be ok. More stress on the
                         body or other illnesses can cause the
                         virus to pop right back up again. You
                         only have one immune system, and your
                         body is host to many viruses. It's
                         difficult to fight all of them at the
                         same time.

Liquids:                 In addition to the cream mentioned
                         above, there are liquids that can be
                         injected into the area which act as
                         acids and dissolve the warts. The cream
                         mentioned above is recommended for warts
                         inside the urethra or vagina where you
                         can still see them. A cystoscopy
                         (lighted microscope inserted into the
                         urethra) is recommended to make sure
                         there are no others deeper inside. There
                         are liquids for getting at these deeper-
                         located warts.

                         Podophyllin (po-DAH-fill-in) is usually
                         injected into the urethra and basically
                         works to make the virus regress and
                         dissolve the existing warts.

                         Trichloroacetic acid is much much more
                         painful and powerful in cases of
                         urethral blockage. Not recommended for
                         general treatment.

                         Thiotepa (thi-uh-TEE-puh) is another one
                         used for basically the same purpose.
                         These, however, are only used where the
                         warts can't be seen, so after the
                         cystoscopy, your doctor will probably
                         recommend one of these anyways.

As I said, there is no cure; the virus is still present even
though there may be no physical signs. I'm still not sure as to
the general scope of the rates of recurrence, but as far as I
know, there is definitely a possibility of recurrence. Consult a
UROLOGIST at first signs of any infections, don't wait for the
symptoms to go away. Almost every STD has symptoms that
eventually fade out, but that doesn't mean that your body has
conquered it. It may come back in other areas and cause
significant problems.

=================================================================

Category 5.    CONTRACEPTION

c5-1.     What are the various methods of contraception? and
          their effectiveness rates? and their associated risks
          if any?

From: c31002wb@jezebel.wustl.edu (William Burris)
Message-ID: <1992Mar10.215138.11142@wuecl.wustl.edu>
Date: Tue, 10 Mar 1992 21:51:38 GMT

                   % of women experiencing an
                   accidental pregnancy in the
                        first year of use
      ----------------------------------------------------
                    Lowest                        Lowest    
Method              Expected       Typical        Reported
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Chance                   85             85        43.1

Spermicides              3              21        0.0

Periodic abstinence                     20
  Calender               9                        14.4
  Ovulation Method       3                        10.5
  Symptothermal          2                        12.6
  Postovulation          1                         2.0

Withdrawal               4              18         6.7

Cervical Cap             6              18         8.0

Sponge   
   Parous women          9              28        27.7
   Nulliparous women     6              18        13.9

Diaphragm                6              18         2.1

Condom                   2              12         4.2

IUD
  Progestasert           2.0             3         1.9
  Copper T 380A          0.8             3         0.5

Pill
  Combined               0.1             3         0.0
  Progestogen only       0.5             3         1.1

Injectable progestogen   
     DMPA                0.3            0.3        0.0
     NET                 0.4            0.4        0.0

Implants
  NORPLANT (6 capsules)  0.04           0.04       0.0
  NORPLANT (2 rods)      0.03           0.03       0.0

Female sterilization     0.2            0.4        0.0

Male sterilization       0.1            0.15       0.0

                   Associated Risk statistics

Activity                        Chance of Death in a Year
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Risks for men and women of all ages who participate in:
     Motorcycling                       1 in 1,000
     Automobile driving                 1 in 6,000
     Power boating                      1 in 6,000
     Rock climbing                      1 in 7,500
     Playing football                   1 in 25,000
     Canoeing                           1 in 100,000

Risks for women aged 15 to 44 years:
     Using Tampons                      1 in 350,000
     Having sexual intercourse (PID)    1 in 50,000

Preventing pregnancy:
     Using birth control pills
          nonsmoker                     1 in 63,000
          smoker                        1 in 16,000
     Using IUDs                         1 in 100,000
     Using diaphragm, condom or spermicide   NONE
     Using fertility awareness methods  NONE
     Undergoing sterilization:
          Laparoscopic tubal ligation   1 in 67,000
          Hysterectomy                  1 in 1,600
          Vasectomy                     1 in 300,000

Continuing pregnancy                    1 in 14,300

Terminating Pregnancy:
     Illegal abortion                   1 in 3,000
     Legal abortion
          Before 9 weeks                1 in 500,000
          Between 9-12 weeks            1 in 67,000
          Between 13-15 weeks           1 in 23,000 
          After 15 weeks                1 in 8,700

-------------------------------------------

The source is the 1990-1992, 15th Revised Edition of
Contraceptive Technology. Authored by too many doctors to cite.
However, this book is used by millions of doctors around the
world as an authority on contraception. Its authors gather their
sources from data published by several different statistic
gathering organizations (such as the Centres for Disease Control)
and then compile and interpret it in their book.
Happy Reading.

-----

From: mf2x+@andrew.cmu.edu (Michael Raymond Feely)
Date: 1 Oct 91 20:52:32 GMT

Nominally, the failure rates for contraceptive methods are
expressed as "number of pregnancies per one hundred user couples
per year" Thus of one hundred couples who used condoms as a birth
control method, two experienced unwanted pregnancies in one year.

Below are reproduced the failure rates for typical contraceptive
methods. My source for this is the tome "Sex A User's Manual"
published by The Diagram Group. (Berkeley Publishing Group, New
York c 1981) The list of credited contributors includes Toni
Bellefield, Medical Information Officer, Family Planning
Information Service, and D.B. Garrioch, MD, MRCOG, Senior
Registrar in Gynecology, St. Thomas' Hospital, London.

Actual failure rate -         number of pregnancies per 100
                              couples per year of use, includes
                              conception due to user's failing to
                              use the method properly, as well as
                              through method failures.

Theoretical failure rate -    number of pregnancies expected per
                              100 couples per year of use,
                              allowing only for failure of the
                              method to function when used
                              properly. Condoms breaking for no
                              apparent reason, etc, are method
                              failures.

I = less than 1
X = expected failure rate, one X per pregnancy
x = actual failure rate minus expected rate, one x per pregnancy

I                             Tubal Ligation (E 0.04/A 0.04)
I                             Vasectomy (E 0.15/A 0.15)
XXXxx                         IUD (E 1-3/A 5)
Ixxxxxxxxxx                   Combined Pill (E 1-1.5/A 5-10)
Ixxxxxxxxxx                   Minipill (E 1-1.5/A5-10)
XXXxxxxxxx                    Condoms (E 3/A 10)
XXXxxxxxxxxxxxxxx             Cap & Spermicide (E 3/A17) 
                              (Rates for diaphragm are probably
                              somewhat lower)
XXXXXXXxxxxxxxxxxxxx          Rhythm (temp) (E 7/A 20)
XXXXXXXXXXXXXxxxxxxxx         Rhythm (calendar) (E 13 /A 21)
XXxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx     Rhythm (mucous) (E 2/A25)
XXXxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx     Spermicides (E 3/A 20-25)
XXXXXXXXXxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx     Withdrawal (E 9/A20-25)

It is to be noted that this data is rather old, and therefore
omits one crucial form of birth control currently available - the
low dose pill. Low dose birth control pills are a more
sophisticated development of the combined pill, and function in
essentially the same way, but do not require as high an overall
dose of hormones per month, thus reducing side effects
considerably. Low dose pills may also be taken right up til
menopause, whereas it is recommended that the combined or mini
pills be discontinued around age 40-45.

The rate I remember for "No birth control" was somewhere on the
order of 80%, however, that is for a statistical sample over
time, not for "one fuck".

>I believe some women also have strong allergic reactions to
>spermicides. I would (personally) say they are a poor choice.

Independently, they are, but bear in mind that spermicides are
absolutely necessary to the functioning of some forms of birth
control - even a well fitted diaphragm is pretty much useless
without spermicidal jelly.

DIAPHRAGM
---------
(from: elf@halcyon.com)

Has a failure rate of 2% (i.e. out of 100 women who primarily use
the diaphragm, two become pregnant). Always use spermicide; both
partners _must_ learn how to place it properly. It has few
associated risks; it cannot become 'lost' because the vagina is
only a few inches long. Can 'slip' and press against the rectum;
this can be uncomfortable. Also, some men can feel the diaphragm
during intercourse. Some women have recurrent yeast infections
when using the diaphragm.

The average diaphragm costs about 20-30 dollars, but it must
first be sized and fitted by a gynecologist, so there is the cost
of a doctor's fee. Must be replaced every two years to ensure
correct fit and product lifespan. A tube of Gynol II costs around
11 dollars and is good for 24 doses of spermicide.

The major disadvantage to the diaphragm is that it must be used
one of two ways; either it is inserted before any sort of sexual
play, in which case the taste of spermicide can become an issue
if the couple wishes to engage in oral sex, or is inserted after
oral sex but before intercourse, which can be considered a major
interruption of play and may lead to not using it all.
(SOURCE: "The New Our Bodies, Ourselves" The Boston Women's
Health Book Collective, 1984. Pgs 225-228.)

A personal observation: Omaha and I rely on the diaphragm as our
primary birth control. As mentioned, she does have recurrent
yeast infection, but we both agree this is a minimal compared to
the intense, suicidal depression that came when she mixed birth
control pills and her epilepsy medication.

We are both fond of oral sex, so we use the diaphragm in the
latter way described in paragraph three. We have never failed to
used it; insertion of the diaphragm has become a major part of
our play, a way of saying "I love you, I care about you, I _will_
be responsible with your body" during lovemaking.

The diaphragm, it _must_ be remembered, is _not_ an effective
method of STD control; only a condom can do that. The diaphragm
is a reproduction control method for primary partners only!

c5-2.     What kinds of condoms are there?

(from: Steven Sharp, sesharp@happy.colorado.edu)

This is a posting of information about types of condoms which are
significantly larger or smaller than average. I got it out of a
book called "The Condom Book" or something similarly imaginative.

One thing that was apparent from reading through the descriptions
was that advertising on size (or for that matter thickness or
ribbing or whatever) is often misleading. A brand which is
claimed to be smaller than average frequently isn't outside the
normal variation. There may also be differences in size based on
variations in manufacturing and these figures were probably based
on single samples. Different size measurements for different
styles of the same brand may indicate such variations or be an
attempt to provide some size variation, in which case getting the
precise style named is important. All measurements are flat and
don't take into account elasticity, which might influence comfort
when worn. Typical condom flat widths range from 2" to 2-1/8"
(meaning two and one eighth, not two minus an eight). All the
condoms listed here are both lubricated and reservoir ended.
Company names are listed in parentheses. Extra words which may
appear in the name on some packages are listed in square
brackets. It is possible I've copied some numbers wrong (and
other disclaimer noises).

Slimmer condoms
---------------
Bikini (Barnetts):                      slightly less than 2" by
                                        7-1/4", packaged in that
                                        frustrating plastic
                                        wrapper

[Sheik] Fetherlite (Schmid):            1-7/8" by 7-1/2"

Hugger (Circle):                        1-7/8" by 7-1/8"

Slims (Circle):                         1-7/8" by 7-3/4"

Mentor (Mentor):                        2" by 8", not smaller,
                                        but has adhesive inside
                                        to prevent slippage,
                                        rather expensive though

Wider condoms
-------------
Excita (Schmid):                        2-1/4" by 8-1/4", Excita
                                        Extra has spermicide

[Lifestyle] [Horizon] Nuda (Ansel):     2-5/8" head, 2-1/8"
                                        shaft, by 8-1/8"

[Ramses] NuForm (Schmid):               2-1/2" upper, 2+" lower,
                                        by 8-1/4, has benzocaine
                                        anaesthetic

Rough Rider (Ansel):                    2-1/2" by 8" thick but
                                        doesn't block sensations,
                                        raised studs

Sheik Ribbed (Schmid):                  2-1/4", forgot to note
                                        length

(Note wide variation in Sheik. Elite with spermicide and
Lubricated (with benzocaine?) are both 2-1/8". Fetherlite is
1-7/8".)

Trojan-Enz Lubricated (Carter-Wallace): 2-1/4" by 8"

Longer condoms
--------------
Man-form Lubricated (Protex):           2" by 8-3/4" long
                                        packaged in that
                                        frustrating plastic
                                        wrapper

[Trojan] Naturalube (Carter-Wallace):   2" by 8-5/8"

=================================================================

Category 6.    Myths

A. You can't get pregnant...
1. if it's the first time your having sex.
2. if she doesn't reach orgasm.
3. before she has her FIRST period.
4. doing it standing up.
5. douching with Coke (or any other soft drink) right afterwards.
6. if you piss afterwards.
7. from anal sex.

B. Masturbation causes...
1. blindness.
2. hair to grow on your palms.

C. No one ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, *ever*, EVER, *EVER*
   makes an irrelevant post to alt.sex.

D. People read the FAQ file first, before asking the net about
   something.

E. Alt.sex is a bboard read by only 10 000 people.

F. Sex is evil.

G. Women can't enjoy sex.

=================================================================

Appendix 1.    List of Contributors

(NOTE:    If you find something you've written which is not
          attributed properly, tell me!)

The first contributor has to be Tony Chen. Thank you Tony.
abb3w@fulton.seas.Virginia.EDU (Arthur Bernard Byrne)
alanc@ocf.Berkeley.edu (Alan Coopersmith)
bron@iastate.edu (Bronwyn J S Hoon)
c31002wb@jezebel.wustl.edu (William Burris)
(Carole Ashmore)
clw5@po.CWRU.Edu (Christopher L. Wood)
ed@stauff.UUCP (Edward L. Stauff)
elf@halcyon.com (Elf Sternberg)
gwh0621@Msu.oscs.montana.edu (The Bedroom Commando)
hurd@fraser.sfu.ca (Peter L. Hurd)
icon@proto.COM (The Iconoclast)
japlady@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (Rebecca Radnor)
jik@pit-manager.MIT.EDU (Jonathan I. Kamens)
klaus@diku.dk (Klaus Ole Kristiansen)
kwatsi@athena.mit.edu (Atomic Playboy)
loredich@miavx3.mid.muohio.edu (Loredich)
markley@grad1.cis.upenn.edu (Jim Markley)
masandy@ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu
mf2x+@andrew.cmu.edu (Michael Raymond Feely)
pete@cssc-syd.tansu.com.au (Peter A. Merel)
rpeck@jessica.stanford.edu (Raymond Peck)
sawyer@hubble..westford.ccur.com (George Sawyer)
sesharp@happy.colorado.edu (Steven Sharp)
stsou@hpcupt1.cup.hp.com (Sharon Tsou)
(The Contrivor)
tmcdonal@ringer.cs.utsa.edu (Tom McDonald)
travis@ZONKER.gs.com (Travis Lee Winfrey)
U32682@UICVM.UIC.EDU (Christopher K. Howard)

=================================================================

Appendix 2.    The Teachings of Kama Sutra (with some extra
               goodies)

                The Love Teachings of Kama Sutra
                ================================
                         By Vatasyayana
                  Excerpts from the Kama Sutra.

           Source: "The Love Teachings of Kama Sutra"

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Lying Down Positions:
---------------------

Indrani draws up both her knees
until they nuzzle the curves of her breasts;
her feet find her lover's armpits.
Small girls love this posture,
but becoming a goddess takes a lot of practice.

She cups and lifts her buttocks with her palms,
spreads wide her thighs,
and digs in her heels besides her hips,
while you caress her breasts:
this is "Utphallaka" (The Flower in Bloom).
Grasping the ankles
of the round hipped woman, whose buttocks
are like two ripe gourds,
raise her beautiful thighs
and spread the thigh-joints widely.

Full of desire, saying sweet words,
approach her with your body stiff as a pole
and drive straight forward
to pierce her lotus and join your limbs:
experts call it "Madandhvaja" (The Flag of Cupid).

Catch hold of her two feet,
raising them till they press upon her breasts
and her legs form a rough circle.
Clasp her neck and make love to her:
this is "Ratisundara" (Aphrodite's Delight).

Lift the lady's feet until her soles
lie perfectly parallel,
one to each side of her slender throat,
cup her breasts and enjoy her:
this technique is "Uthkanta" (Throat-high).

Your lovely wife, lying on the bed,
grasps her own fgs in her heels besides her hips,
while you caress her breasts:
this is "Utphallaka" (The Flower in Bloom).
Grasping the ankles
of the round hipped woman, whose buttocks
are like two ripe gourds,
raise her beautiful thighs
and spread the thigh-joints widely.

Full of desire, saying sweet words,
approach her with your body stiff as a pole
and drive straight forward
to pierce her lotus and join your limbs:
experts call it "Madandhvaja" (The Flag of Cupid).

Catch hold of her two feet,
raising them till they press upon her breasts
and her legs form a rough circle.
Clasp her neck and make love to her:
this is "Ratisundara" (Aphrodite's Delight).

Lift the lady's feet until her soles
lie perfectly parallel,
one to each side of her slender throat,
cup her breasts and enjoy her:
this technique is "Uthkanta" (Throat-high).

Your lovely wife, lying on the bed,
grasps her own feet
and draws them up until they reach her hair;
you catch her breasts and make love:
this is "Vyomapada" (Sky-foot).

The round-thighed woman on the bed
grasps her ankles and raises high her lotus feet;
you strike her to the root, kissing
and slapping open-palmed between her breasts:
this is "Markata" (The Monkey).

She lies flat on her back,
you sit between her parted knees, raise them,
hook her feet over your thighs,
catch hold of her breasts, and enjoy her:
this is "Manmathpriya" (Dear to Cupid).

Lying-down Positions - Samputa Group:
-------------------------------------

If your penis is too small for a woman,
the "Samputa" group of postures should be used:
"Samputa" (the Jewel Case),
"Pidita" (the Squeeze), "Veshtita (the Entwined)
and "Vadavaka" (the Mare's Trick).

In Samputa your legs lie along hers
caressing their whole length from toes to thighs.
Your lover may be below you,
or you may both lie on your sides,
in which case she should always be on your left.

In Pidita the lovers' thighs
are interlaced and squeeze each other in rhythm.
In Veshtita she crosses her thighs
or rolls each one inward,
thus greatly strengthening her yoni's grip.

When, like a mare cruelly gripping
a stallion, your lover
traps and milks your penis with her vagina,
it is "Vadavaka" (the Mare's Trick),
which can only be perfected with long practice.

When she uses it, a woman
should cease to kiss her lover
and simply hold the lock.
Courtesans are adept at Vadavaka,
and it's a speciality with ladies from Andhra(*).

     *The South-Eastern state of India.

When lovers, with legs stretched rigid
and feet caressing feet,
make love according to their hearts' desire,
"tantra" scholars call it "Sampada" (Equal Feet)
and agree it is a way to ecstasy.

Stiff as a pole in the bed's centre,
she lies making love,
cooing and warbling like a woodpigeon,
the jewel of her clitoris well-polished:
this is Mausala" (the Pestle).

When she lies on her back
with her two thighs pressed tightly together
and you make love to her,
keeping your thighs outside hers,
it is "Gramya" (the Rustic).

If, encircling and trapping
her thighs with yours,
you grip so hard that she cries out in pain,
it is "Ratipasha" (Love's Noose),
a device most charming to the ladies.

Her limbs, entwined in yours
like tendrils of fragrant jasmine creeper,
draw taut and slowly relax
in the gentle rhythm of linga and yoni:
this is "Lataveshta" (the Clinging Creeper).

She draws her limbs together,
clasping her knees tightly to her breasts,
her yoni, like an opening bud,
offered up for pleasure:
this is known as "Mukula" (the Bud).

When she draws up her knees
and you clamp yours about her raised thighs,
trapping them in a tight knot
while riding saddle upon her buttocks
and kissing her, it is "Shankha" (the Couch).

Oral Pleasures -- Fellatio Techniques:
--------------------------------------

When your lover catches your penis
in her hand and, shaping
her lips to an 'O', lays them lightly to its tip,
moving her head in tiny circles,
this first step is called "Nimitta" (Touching).

Next, grasping its head in her hand,
she clamps her lips tightly about the shaft,
first on one side then the other,
taking great care that her teeth don't hurt you:
this is "Parshvatoddashta" (Biting at the Sides).

Now she takes the head of your penis
gently between her lips,
by turns pressing, kissing it tenderly
and pulling at its soft skin:
this is "Bahiha-samdansha" (the Outer Pincers).

If next she allows the head to slide
completely into her mouth
and presses the shaft firmly between her lips,
holding a moment before pulling away,
it is "Antaha-samdansha" (the Inner Pincers).
When, taking your penis in her hand
and making her lips very round,
she presses fierce kisses along its whole length,
sucking as she would at your lower lip,
it is called "Chumbitaka" (Kissing).

If, while kissing, she lets her tongue
flick all over your penis
and then, pointing it, strikes repeatedly
at the sensitive glans-tip,
it becomes "Parimrshtaka" (Striking at the Tip).

And now, fired by passion, she takes
your penis deep into her mouth,
pulling upon it and sucking as vigorously
as though she were stripping clean a mango-stone:
this is "Amrachushita" (Sucking a Mango).

When she senses that your orgasm
is imminent she swallows up the whole penis,
sucking and working upon it
with lips and tongue until you spend:
this is "Sangara" (Swallowed Whole).

Oral Pleasures -- Cunnilingus Techniques:
-----------------------------------------

With delicate fingertips,
pinch the arched lips of her house of love
very very slowly together,
and kiss them as though you kissed her lower lip:
this is "Adhara-sphuritam" (the Quivering Kiss).
Now spread, indeed cleave asunder,
that archway with your nose and let your tongue
gently probe her "yoni" (vagina),
with your nose, lips and chin slowly circling:
it becomes "Jihva-bhramanaka" (the Circling Tongue).

Let your tongue rest for a moment
in the archway to the flower-bowed Lord's temple
before entering to worship vigorously,
causing her seed to flow:
this is "Jihva-mardita" (the Tongue Massage).

Next, fasten your lips to hers
and take deep kisses
from this lovely one, your beloved,
nibbling at her and sucking hard at her clitoris:
this is called "Chushita" (Sucked).

Cup, lift her young buttocks,
let your tongue-tip probe her navel, slither down
to rotate skilfully in the archway
of the love-god's dwelling and lap her love-water:
this is "Uchchushita" (Sucked Up).

Stirring the root of her thighs,
which her own hands
are gripping and holding widely apart,
your fluted tongue drinks at her sacred spring:
this is "Kshobhaka" (Stirring).

Place your darling on a couch,
set her feet to your shoulders, clasp her waist,
suck hard and let your tongue stir
her overflowing love-temple:
this is called "Bahuchushita" (Sucked Hard).

If the pair of you lie side by side,
facing opposite ways,
and kiss each other's secret parts
using the fifteen techniques described above,
it is known as "Kakila" (the Crow).

Role Reversal:
--------------

During lovemaking, ten types of blows
may be struck with the penis,
but of these only "Upasripta" (Natural),
which is instinctive even to untutored cowherds,
results in full clitoral stimulation.
It is a gentle forward stroke
which may be varied for depth and speed,
allowing a subtlety, rhythm
and spontaneity which
the other nine each lack to some degree.

If you grasp your penis and move it
in circles inside her yoni,
it is "Madhavana" (Churning).
When you strike sharply down into the yoni,
it is "Hula" (the Double-edged Knife).

If, when her hips are raised by a pillow,
you strike a rising blow,
it is "Avamardana" (Rubbing).
If you hold your penis pressed breathlessly
to her womb it is "Piditaka" (Pressing).

If you withdraw completely
and then strike her violently to the womb,
it is "Nirghata" (the Buffet).
Continuous pressure on one side of her yoni
is "Varahaghata" (the Boar's Blow).

If you thrust wildly in every direction,
like a bull tossing its horns,
it is "Vrishaghata" (the Bull's Blow).
Quivering in her yoni is "Chatakavilasa" (Sparrow Sport),
which usually heralds orgasm.

The involuntary shuddering of orgasm
is called "Samputa" (the Jewel Case).
But no two women make love quite the same way,
so orchestrate your rhythms
to the moods and colours of each lover's "raga" (emotions).

If long lovemaking exhausts you
before your lover has reached her orgasm,
you should allow her
to roll you over your back
and sit astride you, taking initiative.

If the posture gives her deep pleasure,
or you enjoy its novelty,
she may transpose into it as a matter of course,
taking great care, however,
not to expel the linga from the temple of love.

Consider: she climbs upon you,
the flowers dropping from her tousled hair,
her giggles turning to gasps;
every time she bends to kiss your lips
her nipples pierce your chest.

As her hips begin to churn,
her head, flung back, bobs ever faster;
she scratches, pummels you with small fists,
fastens her teeth in your neck,
doing unto you what you've often done unto her.

When she takes the man's role,
your lady has the choice
of three famous lovemaking techniques:
"Samdamsha (the Tongs),
"Bhramara" (the Bee) and "Prenkholita" (the Swing).

If she uses the Mare's Trick,
gripping your penis with her yoni's vice,
squeezing and stroking it,
holding it inside her for a hundred heart-beats,
it is known as "Samdamsha" (the Tongs).
If, drawing up her feet,
she revolves her hips so that your penis
circles deep within her yoni,
you arching your body to help her,
it is "Bhramara" (the Bee).

If she now swings her hips
in wide circles and makes figures-of-eight,
swaying upon your body
as though she were riding on a seesaw,
it is "Prenkholita" (the Swing).

When her passion has ebbed,
she should rest, bending forward to lay
her forehead upon yours
without disturbing your yoked bodies:
it won't be long before desire stirs again.

Catching your penis, the lady
with dark eyes like upturned lotus petals
guides it into her yoni,
clings to you and shakes her buttocks:
this is "Charunarikshita" (Lovely Lady in Control).

Enthroned on your penis,
she places both hands on the bed
and makes love, while you
press your two hands to her thudding heart:
this is "Lilasana" (Seat of Sport).

She sits upright upon you,
her head thrown back like a rearing mare,
bringing her feet together
on the bed to one side of your body:
this is "Hansabandha" (the Swan).

The young woman has one foot
on your heart and the other on the bed.
Bold, saucy women adore this posture,
which is known to the world
as "Upavitika" (the Sacred thread).

If, with one of her feet
clasped in your hand
and the second placed upon your shoulder,
your young lady enjoys you,
it is "Viparitaka" (Reversed).

If your lover, seated above you
with feet lotus-crossed
and her body held erect and still
makes love to you,
it is known as "Yugmapada" (the Foot Yoke).

If she strides you,
facing your feet,
brings both her feet up to your thighs,
and works her hips frantically,
it is known as "Hansa-lila" (Swan Sport).

Your lover places one foot
on your ankle, lodges
her other foot just above your knee,
and rides you, swinging and rotating her hips:
this is "Garuda" (Garuda).

If you lie flat on your back
with legs stretched out
and your lover sits astride you, facing away
and grasping your feet,
it is called "Virsha" (the Bull).
Clasping each other's hands,
you lie sprawled like two starfish making love,
her breasts stabbing your chest,
her thighs stretched out along yours:
this is "Devabandha" (the Coitus of the Gods).

Lying upon you, your beloved
moves round like a wheel,
pressing hands one after the other on the bed,
kissing your body as she circles:
experts call this "Chakrabandha" (the Wheel).

If, by means of some contraption,
your lover suspends herself above you,         **********
places your linga in her yoni                  **********
and pulleys herself up and down upon it,       **********
it is "Utkalita" (the Orissan).**              **********

** I must admit that this is kind of far fetched. However, there
   is an illustration on the next page depicting this position
   and showing two women pulling the woman up.
*** HOWEVER IF YOU DO GET A CHANCE, TRY IT OUT. IT'S ONE OF A
    KIND OF AN EXPERIENCE.

WARNING  I: DON'T TRY ANY OF THESE METHODS DESCRIBED BELOW.
WARNING II: IF YOU ARE GOING TO TRY ANY ONE OF THE METHODS
            DESCRIBED BELOW, YOU AND YOU ALONE ARE RESPONSIBLE
            FOR IT.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

To Enslave a Lover:
-------------------

Anoint your penis, before lovemaking,
with honey into which
you have powered black pepper,
long pepper and "datura" (the green thorn apple) -
it will utterly devastate your lady.

Leaves caught as they fall from trees
and powdered with peacock-bone
and fragments of a corpse's winding-sheet
will, when dusted lightly
on the penis, bewitch any woman living.

If you crush milky chunks of cactus
with sulphur and realgar,
dry the mixture seven times, powder it
and apply it to your penis,
you'll satisfy the most demanding lover.

And if, to these powerful ingredients,
you add a monkey's turd,
grind them together and sprinkle the powder
on your unsuspecting lover's head,
she will be your devoted slave for life.

To Increase Potency:
--------------------

Honey-sweetened milk in which
the testicles of a ram
or a goat have been simmered
has the effect, when drunk,
of making a man as powerful as a bull.

Pumkin seeds ground with almonds
and sugarcane root,
or with cowhage root and strips of bamboo,
and stirred into honeyed milk,
have the same arousing effect.

The sages say that wheat-flour cakes
baked with honey and sugar
and sprinkled with the powdered seeds
of pumpkin and cowhage
give one strength for a thousand women.

The yolk of a single sparrow's egg
stirred into rice pudding
that has been thickened with cream,
wild-honey and "ghee" (clarified butter)
has the same invigorating effect.

Enlarging the Penis or "Yoni" (Vagina):
---------------------------------------

First rub your penis with wasp stings
and massage it with sweet oil.
When it swells, let it dangle for ten nights
through a hole in your bed,
going to sleep each night on your stomach.

After this period use a cool ointment
to remove the pain and swelling.
By this method men ... of insatiable
sexual appetite, manage to keep
their penises enlarged throughout their lives.

By applying an ointment made from
crushed barleria leaves
to her "yoni", the elephant(HASTHINI or large) woman
can spend at least one night
discovering the delights of being a doe ("small" woman).

Likewise the doe can use honey
mixed with powdered roots
of lotus, madder, "sal" (tree of aromatic gum),
the blue lotus and the mongoose plant
to accommodate a stallion for one night.

To Cope With Impotence:
-----------------------

A man who climaxes too swiftly
should arouse his lady
by caressing her clitoris with his fingers
and flooding the well
of her yoni before he enters her.

If, during lovemaking, the erection
cannot be sustained because
the man is old, or simply exhausted
he should use the delicate
oral techniques given in an earlier chapter.

The man who is utterly unable
to achieve an erection
should pleasure his wife/lover with a phallus
crafted from materials like
gold, silver, copper, iron (!!), ivory or horn.

The artificial phallus should be shaped
to your natural proportions.
It will be more arousing for the lady
if the outside is studded
with a profusion of large, smooth nodules.

=END OF FAQ FILE=================================================
--
****************************************************************************
* dave@cnd.mcgill.ca                     * My intentions are true          *
* David Johnson                          * Won't you take me with you      *
* To subscribe to the                    * And baby you can sleep while    *
* Melissa Etheridge mailing list:        * I drive.                        *
* Etheridge-request@cnd.mcgill.ca        *  - Melissa Etheridge            *  
****************************************************************************
 with a phallus
crafted from materials like
gold, silver, copper, iron (!!), ivory or horn.

The artificial phallus should be shaped
to your natural proportions.
It will be more arousing for the lady
if the outside is studded
with a profusion of large, smooth nodules.

=END OF FAQ FILE=================================================
--
****************************************************************************
* dave@cnd.mcgill.ca                     * My intentions are true          *
* David Johnson                          * Won't you take me with you      *
* To subscribe to the                    * And baby you can sleep while    *
* Melissa Etheridge mailing list:        * I drive.                        *
* Etheridge-request@cnd.mcgill.ca        *  - Melissa Etheridge            *  
****************************************************************************
