                    II
---------------->>  II  <<-----------------------------------------------------
            <<------II------>>  Thee Temple ov Psychick Youth
                    II
                <<--II-->>      Frequently Asked Questions V1.00 Ratio Zero
                    II          Maintained by: Coyote 129 alamut@netcom.com
            <<------II------>>  Timefix: 3/21/92
---------------->>  II  <<-----------------------------------------------------
                    II 

1> What is Thee Temple ov Psychick Youth?
	Thee Temple ov Psychick Youth (TOPY) is an organization of Individuals
dedicated to updating and de-mystifying religious thought. We are also
dedicated to creating a world where Individuals can be free to express
themselves by whatever means they wish to. We wish to break control at all
levels.

2> What does TOPY do?
	A large part of the work of TOPY involves networking with others of TOPY
around the world. Information is power and the more Information that flows
thru the network, the more power the network will have. We share our
experience, hopes, dreams, and desires. We will all grow together.

3> What are the beliefs of TOPY?
	TOPY has no imposed belief structure. We are all Individuals, and as such
may believe whatever we like. For the most part, people that are attracted
to TOPY do feel a certain sense of rejection from society, and a desire to
break the chains imposed on them by that society. As such, we have a
disproportionate amount of artists, musicians, writers and the like in our
midst.

4> Is TOPY allied with any other groups?
	TOPY is not formally aligned with any occult groups whatsoever. 

5> What does the Psychick Cross mean?
	The Psychick Cross is a symbol of TOPY. That is its main meaning. 
It can also represent a trinity, a reversal of the Papal Cross (ie: two
long crossbars and one short), and a TV aerial (receiver and transmitter of
information). No meaning is imposed upon it.

6> What is a Coyote? Kali? or Eden?
	All these terms are used for someone who is active in the network. They are
usually used with a number (ie: Coyote129). The numbers have no meaning in
and of themselves, they are merely a means to differentiate between
Individuals. Coyotes are generally localized to the USA

7> What do "ratios" mean?
	The ratio system as developed by TOPY is designed to help focus the work of
the network by keeping access to information with those who use the
information. This does not mean that it is restricted from those who do
not! All channels of information are available to anyone at any time. Ratio
Zero is that information that does not require any involvement in the
Temple to receive. Ratio Zero is the Flatworld. This document is Ratio
Zero. Ratio One is the key to the Temple. This is where information related
to the Individuals magickal work is transmitted and received. ALL HIGHER
RATIOS are based on Ratio One. Ratio Two is working magickally with other
Individuals. This can be by working with APs or with others that have
realized Ratio One. Ratio Three is your Ratio Two group reaching out to
interact with others in the Ratio Two level, as well as attempting to
interact with the Flatworld (Ratio Zero). Please note that these channels
are not related to TOPY alone. If you work within a Coven, then you are
working at Ratio Two. If you are helping your Coven to contact and network
with other Covens, or even other groups of no relation then you are working
at Ratio Three.

8> Why does TOPY spell funny?
	A common belief in TOPY is in the magickal power of language. We feel that
the manipulation of common phrases can break the automatic loop of
"speaking without thought". We wish to control our own words, our thoughts,
and expression. We can do this by consciously changing the language to meet
our needs. 

7> What role does Psychick TV and Genesis P-Orridge play in TOPY?
	Genesis started the Temple many years ago, as an outgrowth of his own Ratio
One work. It has since grown far beyond his expectations. He has no special
status within the Temple, other than that of an active member. Psychick TV
is one of many artistic vehicles of the Temple.

8> What do i need to do to find out more?
	Contact any of these addresses:
USA: Station TOPYSOL: Box 33540, San Diego, CA 92163-3540
	Access Point TOPYNoKal, 2300 Market St #35, SF, CA 94114
	TOPYDigital: alamut@netcom.com , BBS: 415.431.7541
			2300 Market St #93, SF, CA 94114
UK: Station 23, Box 687, Halfway, Sheffield, S19 5UX, England
Europe: Der Tempel, Box 1912, 5200 BX DEN, Basch, Holland
Australia: TOPYChaos, Box A1441, Sydney South, NSW 2000, Australia
