-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 BLADE RUNNER

                           Frequently Asked Questions 

                       Copyright (C) 1993 Murray Chapman

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Compiled by Murray Chapman (muzzle@cs.uq.oz.au), from sources too numerous to
mention.  Thank-you one and all.


                               INTRODUCTION
                               ------------

The movie "Blade Runner" is one of the Internet's most talked about movies.  In
an attempt to stop the same questions being asked and answered every few months
or so, I present the Blade Runner FAQ.

This list will be posted monthly to: alt.cult-movies, rec.arts.movies,
alt.cyberpunk, rec.arts.sf.movies, news.answers, rec.answers, and alt.answers.
and rec.answers as soon as I can sort out a few problems.

The followup field is set to alt.cult-movies, because it is the most relevant
newsgroup for Blade Runner discussions.

This, and MANY other FAQs are available for anonymous FTP wherever news.answers
is archived, for example:

        rtfm.mit.edu:/pub/usenet/news.answers/movies/bladerunner-faq

Sites in Europe include:
        nic.switch.ch
        cnam.cnam.fr
        ftp.win.tue.nl

also:

        ftp.u.washington.edu:/public/alt.cyberpunk/FAQS/BladeRunner.FAQ
        nic.funet.fi:/pub/culture/tv+film/BladeRunner

Suggestions welcome for all areas, especially those marked with []s.

[ The Blade Runner FAQ seems to have settled itself a bit.  Further changes are
  expected to be minimal.  Dare we say the FAQ is complete? ]

                          This FAQ contains spoilers.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 CONTENTS
                                 --------

                1.  What is Blade Runner?
                2.  What book is it based on?
                3.  Is the sound track available?
                4.  What are replicants?
                5.  Who/what is <so-and-so>?
                6.  I don't like the voice-overs/ending.
                7.  What different versions of Blade Runner are there?
                8.  Memorable Quotes
                9.  What is the significance of the unicorn?
                10. What is the significance of the chess game?
                11. Problems in Blade Runner
                12. Trivia / What makes Blade Runner popular/special?
                13. More questions/answers
                14. Is Deckard a replicant?

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. WHAT IS BLADE RUNNER?

Blade Runner (BR) is a science-fiction film starring Harrison Ford, Rutger
Hauer, Sean Young, and Daryl Hannah.  Although it was a box-office failure, it
has become perhaps the definitive cult movie, and is one of the few films which
remain faithful to the ideals of 20th century science fiction literature.

Blade Runner was directed by Ridley Scott, and features music by Vangelis.


Plot Synopsis
-------------

Preamble from movie:

          Early in the 21st Century, THE TYRELL
        CORPORATION advanced Robot evolution
        into the NEXUS phase -- a being virtually
        identical to a human -- known as replicants.
          The NEXUS 6 Replicants were superior
        in strength and agility, and at least equal
        in intelligence, to the genetic engineers
        who created them.
          Replicants were used Off-world as
        slave labor, in the hazardous exploration and
        colonization of other planets.
          After a bloody mutiny by a NEXUS 6
        combat team in an Off-world colony,
        Replicants were declared illegal
        on earth -- under penalty of death.
          Special police squads -- BLADE RUNNER
        UNITS -- had orders to shoot to kill, upon
        detection, any trespassing Replicants.

          This was not called execution.
          It was called retirement.



                LOS ANGELES
               NOVEMBER, 2019


A number of replicants have made it to Earth, and ex-Blade Runner Deckard
(Harrison Ford) is convinced to track them down.




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. WHAT BOOK IS IT BASED ON?

Blade Runner is LOOSELY based on a Philip K. Dick novella, "Do Androids
Dream of Electric Sheep" (DADoES). Dick also wrote the story that _Total
Recall_ was based on, "We Can Remember It For You, Wholesale".  A recurring
theme in Dick's work is the question of personal and human identity.   A
question explored more in DADoES and _Total Recall_ than in Blade Runner is
"what is reality?"

At the most, one can say that the movie borrowed a concept and some characters
from the book.

You are most likely to find DADoES in a second-hand bookstore.  It has been
re-released as: "Blade Runner (Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?)."

The title comes from Alan E. Nourse, who wrote a story called "The Bladerunner".
William S. Burroughs took the book and wrote "Bladerunner (A Movie)" in 1979.
Rights to the title only ("in perpetuity throughout the universe") were sold to
Ridley Scott.  Similarities between Nourse's "The Bladerunner" and Scott's BR
are in name only.  Nourse's title refers to people who deliver medical
instruments to outlaw doctors who can't obtain them legally.
[Source: Locus, September 1992 (p. 76)]

A great deal of the "visuals" were inspired from one of the issues in the
"Wonders of the Universe" comic book series, drawn by Moebius (Jean Giraud).
The original comic book title is "L'homme est-il bon?" (Is man good?).  One
story in this book (written by Dan O'Bannon, who co-wrote _Aliens_), is called
"The Long Tomorrow".  The back of the comic book says (translated from French):

        "This comic-book also contains other famous stories,
         like "The Long Tomorrow", which originally was thought
         to be a parody, but ended up being more real, than what
         is was meant to be a parody of: the classic american
         detective-story. This story was later used as a visual
         reference for the movie "Blade Runner"."





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. IS THE SOUND TRACK AVAILABLE?

The original movie soundtrack has never been officially released, although the
credits claim it is available on Polydor records.

There is an album called the "Blade Runner Soundtrack" (WEA 1982), but it is
NOT the music from the movie, rather it is an orchestral arrangement.  It
contains the following tracks:

                Love Theme                       (4:12)
                Main Title                       (5:01)
                One More Kiss, Dear              (4:00)
                Memories Of Green                (4:50)
                End Title                        (4:17)
                Blade Runner Blues               (4:38)
                Farewell                         (3:10)
                Love Theme                       (4:12)



Vangelis released an album called "Themes", which contains:

                End Titles from "BLADERUNNER"    (4:57)
                Love Theme from "BLADERUNNER"    (4:55)
                Memories of Green                (5:42)

"Memories of Green" was originally released on Vangelis' album "See You Later".

Vangelis' 1979 album "VANGELIS: Opera Sauvage" contains some tracks similar to
those used in Blade Runner.

There are recurring but unsubstatiated rumors that a few LPs of the real
soundtrack were sold in Europe.  (Cassette only, France only)

Scott used the orchestrated version of "Memories of Green" in his film _Someone
to Watch Over Me_


The Japanese vocals associated with the Blimp are from:

        "Japan: Traditional Vocal and Instrumental Music, Shakuhachi,
         Biwa, Koto, Shamisen" [compact disc]

         - performed by Ensemble Nipponia 
         - 1976, Electra Asylum Nonesuch Records/Warner Communications Inc.

        The lyrics are part of a Japanese epic about the tragic and utter
        destruction of one clan by another.


Gail Laughton's "Harps of the Ancient Temples" is used as the bicyclists pass
by Leon and Batty on their way to Chew's Eye World.
[Anybody know how to get this music?]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. WHAT ARE REPLICANTS?

The following definitions appear in the BR script, the Marvel Comics adaptation
of the film, but not the movie itself:

_android_       (an'droid) adj.  Possessing human features -n.  
                A synthetic man created from biological materials.
                Also called humanoid.  (Late Greek androeides,
                manlike:  ANDR(O) - OID.)

                                        THE AMERICAN HERITAGE
                                        DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH
                                        LANGUAGE (1976)


_android_       (an'droid) n, Gk.  humanoid automation.  more at
                robot./  1.  early version utilized for work too
                boring, dangerous or unpleasant for humans.
                2.  second generation bio-engineered.  Electronic
                relay units and positronic brains.  Used in space
                to explore inhospitable environments.  3.  third
                generation synthogenetic.  REPLICANT, constructed
                of skin/flesh culture.  Selected enogenic transfer
                conversion.  Capable of self perpetuating thought.
                Paraphysical abilities.  Developed for emigration
                program.

                                        WEBSTER'S DICTIONARY
                                        New International (2012)


Replicants are manufactured organisms designed to carry out work too boring,
dangerous, or distasteful for humans.

The new "NEXUS 6" replicants are nearly indistinguishable from humans.  (An
early draft of the script contained an autopsy scene, in which the surgeons
were unaware that the body they were examining was a replicant, until two hours
into the procedure.)

Replicants differ from humans in one important factor: they are lacking in
empathy.  In BR, replicants' eyes glow, however Ridley Scott has stressed that
this is merely a cinematic technique, and the glow can't be seen by the
characters in the story, only by the audience.

A test, called the "Voight-Kampff Test" (VK) is administered to determine if
the subject is a human by trying to elicit an empathetic response.

NEXUS 6 (and possibly all other) replicants are manufactured by the Tyrell
Corporation, although there is evidence that third party manufacturers are
utilized.  (Chew's Eye World).  Replicants can endure greater pain than humans,
and are generally physically superior.  NEXUS 6 replicants have a in-built
fail-safe mechanism, namely a four year lifespan.

It was noticed that replicants had eccentricities because they were emotionally
immature.  Rachael was a NEXUS 6 replicant with experimental memory implants,
designed to provide a cushion for her emotions.  Consequently, she was unaware
that she was a replicant.




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. WHO/WHAT IS <SO-AND-SO>?


"BLADE RUNNER" GLOSSARY (from the 1982 Presskit)
------------------------------------------------

BLADE RUNNER -- The nickname given to those police detectives who are
specially trained in the use of the Voight-Kampff machine and whose
specific function is to track down and eliminate any replicants that
manage to escape into human society and attempt to pass as real human
beings.  The official name of the Blade Runner division is Rep-
Detect.

REPLICANT -- A genetically engineered creature composed entirely of
organic substance.  Animal replicants (animoids) were developed first
for use as pets and beasts of burden after most real animals became
extinct.  Later, humanoid replicants were created for military
purposes and for the exploration and colonization of space.  The
Tyrell Corp. recently introduced the Nexus 6, the supreme replicant -
- much stronger and faster than, and virtually indistinguishable
from, real human beings.  Earth law forbids replicants on the planet,
except in the huge industrial complex where they are created.  The
law does not consider replicants human and therefore accords them no
rights nor protection.

ESPER -- A high-density computer with a very powerful three-
dimensional resolution capacity and a cryogenic cooling system.  The
police cars and Deckard's apartment contain small models which can be
channeled into the large one at police headquarters.  This big
apparatus is a well-worn, retro-fitted part of the furniture.  Among
many functions, the Esper can analyze and enlarge photos, enabling
investigators to search a room without being there.

VOIGHT-KAMPFF MACHINE -- A very advanced form of lie detector that
measures contractions of the iris muscle and the presence of
invisible airborne particles emitted from the body.  The bellows were
designed for the latter function and give the machine the menacing
air of a sinister insect.  The V-K is used primarily by blade runners
to determine if a suspect is truly human by measuring the degree of
his empathic response through carefully worded questions and
statements.

SPINNER -- The generic term for all flying cars in use around the
year 2020.  Only specially authorized people and police are licensed
to operate these remarkable vehicles, which are capable of street
driving, vertical lift-off, hovering and high-speed cruising.  The
Spinner is powered by three engines -- conventional internal
combustion, jet and anti-gravity.



Behind the Scenes
-----------------

RIDLEY SCOTT: Director.  A veteran television commercial maker, Scott
consistently makes quality movies.  His feature-film credits include:
The Duellists, Alien, Blade Runner, Someone to Watch Over Me, Legend,
Black Rain, Thelma and Louise, 1492.  Ridley's brother Tony is also a
director, and his film credits include Top Gun, Days of Thunder, and The Last
Boyscout.


MICHAEL DEELEY: Producer.  Acadamy Award winner for producing "The Deer Hunter"


SYD MEAD: Visual Futurist: Syd Mead suggested using the term "visual futurist"
for his credit in the Blade Runner movie.  (As he is not a union/guild member,
he could not use credits such as "creative designer".)

He has been co-sponsoring an International Student Design Competition 
with Sony since 1989.

Some of his works are:

California Pavilion, Seville Expo (1992)
Future Terminal, for Japan Railways East (1990)
Club Car, for Japan Railways East (1990)
Dr. Jeekans [This is futuristic cafe/video arcade in Tokyo.]  (1990)
Office for the Future, for Okamura Furniture Co, Japan (1989)
Club House (Tokyo Bayside Project) (1989)
Tron Computer (1988)
San Rio Theatre (1987)
Office of the Future, for GE (1985)


LAWRENCE G. PAULL: Production Designer.  Holds degrees in Architecture and
City Planning, his feature-film credits include: Blue Collar, Which Was Is Up?,
and The Star Spangled Girl".


DAVID SNYDER: Art director.


VANGELIS (Evangelos Papathanassiou): Greek Composer.  He has written numerous
movie scores, perhaps the most famous being for "Chariots of Fire".   Also
wrote some of the music for the TV series "Cosmos".  Prio to writing movie
scores, Vangelis was the keyboard player of the band "Aphrodite's Child".

Vangelis wrote the score for Scott's 1992 film: _1492_.

[I lost the discography that someone sent me... can you send it again, please?]


HAMPTON FANCHER, DAVID PEOPLES: Screenplay writers.  Peoples wrote Clint
Eastwood's _Unforgiven_


JORDAN CRONENWETH: Cinematographer. (Altered States, Stop Making Sense)


DOUGLAS TRUMBULL: Special Effects (2001: A Space Odyssey, Close Encounters of
the Third Kind, Brainstorm (also directed))


On Screen
---------

DECKARD (Harrison Ford):  (Ex) Blade Runner.

DR ELDON TYRELL (Joe Turkel): Owner/Chairman of the Tyrell Corp,
manufacturers of replicants.  Extremely intelligent, designed the NEXUS 6 brain

RACHAEL (Sean Young): Prototype NEXUS 6 replicant.  Works for Tyrell.

ROY BATTY (Rutger Hauer):  Leader of the renegade replicants.
INCEPT DATE: 8 Jan, 2016
FUNCTION: Combat, Colonization Defense Prog
PHYS: A                 MENT: A

PRIS (Daryl Hannah):  Replicant, (Bryant: "Yer standard pleasure model")
INCEPT DATE: 14 Feb, 2016
FUNCTION: Military/leisure
PHYS: A                MENT: B

ZHORA (Joanna Cassidy): Replicant.
INCEPT DATE: 12 June, 2016
FUNCTION: Retrained (9 Feb, 2018) Polit. Homicide
PHYS: A                MENT: B

LEON KOWALSKI (Brion James): Replicant.
INCEPT DATE: 10 April, 2017
FUNC: Combat/loader (Nuc. Fiss.)
PHYS: A                MENT: C

J F SEBASTIAN (William Sanderson): Genetic designer for the Tyrell Corporation.
Still on Earth because of a premature geriactricism (Methuselah's Syndrome).
Has defeated Tyrell once in chess.

H BRYANT (M Emmett Walsh): Inspector of the Police force, Deckard's former boss

GAFF (Edward James Olmos):  A member of the Police Force.  Makes origami.

HOLDEN (Morgan Paull): Blade Runner, shot by Leon.




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. I DON'T LIKE THE VOICE-OVERS/ENDING.

Ridley Scott made BR in a style called "film noir".  Film noir is the
"hardboiled detective" style of story-telling, perhaps the most famous example
is the Humphrey Bogart movie "The Maltese Falcon" (directed by John Huston).  A
characteristic of film noir is the voice-overs by the detective, explaining
what he is thinking/doing at the time.

Having said that, it is interesting to note that Ridley Scott originally
made BR *without* the voice-overs, but due to it's poor reception when
sneak previewed, the studio insisted that the voice-overs be added.  Ridley
Scott has said in an interview on American television that in film noir,
voice-overs sometimes work, and sometimes don't, and they didn't work in BR.

"(A)n extensive voice-over was added to help people relate to Harrison Ford's
character and make following the plot easier.  (A)fter a draft by novelist-
screenwriter Darryl Ponicsan was discarded, a TV veteran named Roland Kibbee
got the job.  As finally written, the voice-over met with universal scorn from
the filmmakers, mostly for what Scott characterized as its 'Irving the
Explainer' quality....  It sounded so tinny and ersatz that, in a curious bit
of film folklore, many members of the team believe to this day that Harrison
Ford, consciously or not, did an uninspired reading of it in the hopes it
wouldn't be used.  And when co-writers Fancher and Peoples, now friends, saw it
together, they were so afraid the other had written it that they refrained from
any negative comments until months later."
[Source: Los Angeles Times Magazine, September 13, 1992]

The ending of the film was also changed by the studio.  Scott wanted to end
the film with Deckard and Rachael getting into the elevator, but the studio
decided that the film needed a happier, less ambiguous ending.  The aerial
landscape photography used in the theatrical release was outtakes from Stanley
Kubrik's _The Shining_.

In 1992, Ridley Scott released a "Director's Cut" of Blade Runner (BRDC), which
eliminates the voice-overs and the happy ending.  This version is discussed
in more detail below.




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. WHAT DIFFERENT VERSIONS OF BLADE RUNNER ARE THERE?


- US sneak preview, (1982, very limited release in 1991)
- US theatrical release (1982)
- European/LD/!0th Anniversary cut (more violence)
- Director's Cut (BRDC) (1992)

Ridley Scott re-released the sneak preview at select movie festivals in
1991.  There were rumours that THIS version was the director's cut, but that
did not appear until 1992.

Hampton Fancher did eight drafts of the screenplay.  These drafts concluded
with Deckard taking Rachael out of the city, letting her see nature for the
first time, and then, because she has only a few days to live, shooting her in
the snow.  David Peoples was brought in to polish the script, and Ridley Scott
asked him to make the plot include more clues.  Peoples worked on the humanity
of Deckard's adversaries, and in fact his daughter mentioned the biological
term "replicate", which led to "replicant".  Peoples also told Scott that the
screenplay was virtually perfect before he worked on it.
[Source: Los Angeles Times Magazine, September 13, 1992 (p. 20).]



Theatrical vs Sneak preview:
----------------------------
- Webster's 2012 definition of a replicant replaced with preamble
- voiceovers added
- voiceover after Roy's death lengthened
  - removed eulogy and appreciation for replicants
  - added philosophical musings

LD vs Theatrical:
-----------------
- added footage
  - Batty sticks his thumbs in Tyrell's eyes, which bleed copiously.
  - Pris lifts Deckard up by his nostrils when she beats him up.
  - Deckard shoots Pris an extra time.
  - More of Pris kicking and screaming when she is shot by Deckard.
  - More of Roy putting the nail through his hand, in particular the hand
    with the nail popping through and then flexing.
  - Total added footage is about 15 seconds.


The 10th Anniversary Video edition is identical to the LD release.
----------------------------------


BRDC vs Theatrical:
-------------------
- Dubbed footage
  - Bryant tells Deckard that there are "five skin jobs walking the street",
    not six.

- Added footage
  - Added dialog from blimp to cover missing voice-over while Deckard waits
    for a seat at the noodle bar.
  - Unicorn scene when Deckard plays piano and falls asleep (about 12 seconds)

- Removed footage
  - No happy ending, movie ends with closing elevator door

- no extra violence.

Soundtrack completely redone digitally for BRDC and is more prominent.


Cable TV
--------

When BR first appeared on American cable TV, there was an additional line of
dialog when Bryant gives Deckard the description, names, and addresses of
Tyrell and Sebastian over the radio.  In the cable TV version, Bryant adds
"...and check 'em out" after he says "I want you to go down there."

[ANYBODY WHO'S SEEN THIS, PLEASE PLEASE CONTACT ME!]


VIDEOTAPES:
-----------

All video tapes as of 1 January 1993 are the Not Rated version with the
extra violence that was removed from the 117 minute American theatrical
release.

[Different versions anyone?]


LASERDISCS:
-----------

In the NTSC markets (M/NTSC 3.58 525/60:  US and Japan), there have been up
to four versions of Blade Runner continuously available on laserdisc for
the last several years.

Ignoring the Japanese edition(s), we have:
* Criterion Collection CC1120L, $90, CAV, 2.2:1 letterboxed, 4 sides,
  digital stereo, CX/analog stereo, 3M pressing, extensive still-frame
  supplements.

* Criterion Collection CC1169L, $50, CLV, 2.2:1 letterboxed, 2 sides,
  digital stereo, CX/analog stereo, Pioneer pressing, (no supplements).

* Embassy (Nelson Ent.) 13806, $35, CLV, 1.3:1 panned&scanned, 2 sides,
  CX/analog stereo, Pioneer pressing, (no digital sound, no supplements)

The Embassy LD is also available as an identical VHS release, and both are
inferior to the Criterion discs.

The Criterion and Japanese laserdiscs correspond to this version of the film.
All other laserdiscs (Embassy & Nelson), regardless of what the jacket claims,
are identical to the American theatrical release.


BRDC LD
-------

A Japanese Warner Home Video import of BRDC arrived in the US in early March.
It is a single CLV disk with widescreen picture format and jacket art similar
to the pan-and-scan edition from Nelson Entertainment.  A wrapper on the jacket
shows four different BR LDs available in Japan:
         1) a pan-and-scan CLV of the original
         2) a widescreen CLV that appears to be the same as the Criterion CLV
         3) a widescreen CLV Director's Cut
         4) the full-feature CAV widescreen that corresponds to the Criterion
            edition.
A slip-sheet included with the album contains some stills of the actors on one
side and B&W photos of Syd Mead's gallery on the other.



PUBLICATIONS:
-------------

  SCRIPTS:

        Script City
        8033 Sunset Blvd.
        PO Box 1500
        Hollywood, CA 90046
        U.S.A.
        US Phone:    213-871-0707    (inquiries)
                   1-800-676-2522    (orders only)

        - Blade Runner script early draft--7/24/80.  $24.95 plus $4.50 for
          First Class shipping.

        - Blade Runner script early draft--12/22/80.  $24.95 plus $4.50 for
          First Class shipping.

        - Blade Runner final script--5/10/81.  $17.00 plus $4.50 for First
          Class shipping.  Note that date on the cover is 23 February 1981 but
          it contains numerous changes dated as late as 16 June 1981.  This
          is considered the final shooting script.

        - Blade Runner Storyboards.  $16.95 plus $4.50 for First Class
          shipping.  Note this is only the storyboards for the first half of
          the film, the set is not complete.

If you order three or all four items, the total postage is $10.50.


        Cinema City
        P.O. Box 1012
        Muskegon, MI 49443
        US Phone:    616-722-7760
        Blade Runner script ($55.00 + postage)


  The Blade Runner Sketchbook
        - early monochrome production drawings, conceptual sketches of items
          to be found in LA in 2019.
        - Parking meters
        - Stop light trees
        - Door keys
        - Magazine racks
        - Blade Runner pistol
        - VK machine

        - sketches of Tyrell's "coffin", a cryogenic unit holding his body in
          suspended animation until future technology can revitalize him.  His
          casket looked similar to cryo units onboard Discovery in Stanley
          Kubrik's _2001: A Space Odyssey_

        - A Virtual Reality mask.  Worn over your face, a person used software
          disks to enjoy various moods of pleasure.  Supposedly erotic stuff.
        
        - A stage where the dancers performed.  (Like a small amphitheater)
        
        - out of print, a collector's item.
        
  Retrofitting Blade Runner:
  Issues in Ridley Scott's _Blade Runner_ and Philip
  K. Dick's _Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?_
  Judith B. Kerman, editor, 1991, 291 pages
  Bowling Green State University Press, Bowling Green, Ohio 43403
        - detailed, scene-by-scene analysis.

  The Illustrated Blade Runner
  Blue Dolphin Enterprises, Inc., 1982, ISBN #0-943128-01-3.
  Prepared late in post-production.

  "The Blade Cuts", Starburst (UK) no. 51, November 1982. Phil Edwards.

  "Back To The Future", Empire (UK) issue 42 (December 1992).

  "L'homme est-il bon?", from the "Wonders of the Universe" comic book
  series.  Illustrated by Moebius (Jean Giraud).  France.






-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. MEMORABLE QUOTES.


RACHAEL:

        "Is this testing whether I'm a replicant, or a lesbian, Mr Deckard?"


DECKARD:

        "I've had people walk out on me before, but not when I was being
         so charming."

        "Shakes?  Me too.  I get them bad, it goes with the business/"


RACHAEL:
        "I'm not in the business... I am the business."


CHEW:

        "I design your eyes"

ROY BATTY:

        "Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes!"

        "It's not an easy thing to meet your maker."

        "I want more life, father!"
                (some versions sound like: "I want more life, fucker!")

        "I've done . . . questionable things . . . but nothing that the 
         God of biomechanics wouldn't let you into heaven for."

        "Six, seven!  Go to hell or go to heaven!"

        "You'd better get it up, or I'm gonna have to kill you!"

        "That was irrational of you.  Not to mention unsportsmanlike."

        "I've seen things you people wouldn't believe.
         Attack ships on fire off the shoulder of Orion.
         I watched C-beams glitter in the dark near the Tannhauser gate.
         All those moments will be lost in time, like tears in rain.
         Time to die."


TYRELL:
        "Milk and cookies kept you awake?"

        "The light that burns twice as bright burns half as long...
         ...and you have burned so very, very brightly, Roy."


LEON:
        "My mother... let me tell you about my mother!"

        "Nothing's worse than having an itch you can never scratch!"

        "Wake up!  Time to die!"


SEBASTIAN:

        "I MAKE friends."


PRIS:

        "Then we're stupid, and we'll die!"


GAFF:

        "You've done a man's job, sir!"

        "It's too bad she won't live!  But then again, who does?"




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. WHAT IS THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE UNICORN?

When Deckard leaves his apartment with Rachael at the end of the film, she
knocks over an origami unicorn, probably left there by Gaff.

The voiceover speculates that the unicorn was simply a message to Deckard to
say "I know you've got Rachael, but I'll let her live."

The unicorn is the last of a series of origami figures that Gaff uses to taunt
Deckard. In Bryant's office when Deckard insists he's retired, Gaff folds a
chicken: "You're afraid to do it".  Later he makes a man with an erection:
"You've got the hots for her".  And finally, the unicorn: "You're dreaming, you
can run away with her, but she won't live" (he says basically the same thing to
Deckard on the rooftop).

A unicorn has long been the symbol of virginity and purity (being white), which
ties in with Rachel's status.  Legend states that only a virgin could capture a
unicorn.  Unicorns are extinct, and Gaff may think the same of Rachael, as she
definitely has a limited lifespan.

A unicorn was used in Tennessee Williams' "The Glass Menagerie" to symbolize
that the girl was "different to other horses".  The horn on this unicorn
represented her physical handicap, which prevented her from meeting people.
When she finally did meet a man, they danced and knocked over the unicorn,
breaking its horn off.  "It's just like all the other horses now.", she said,
which symbolizes that she has overcome her shyness/lost her virginity.

The unicorn may symbolize one of the following:

        - Rachael is (and always will be) a replicant among humans, and will
          be different, like a unicorn among horses, because of her termination
          date.  (In the tacked-on ending, Deckard says that she doesn't have a
          termination date)

        - Rachael leaving and knocking over the unicorn symbolizes her escape
          from the Tyrell corporation, which only looked at her as a replicant.
          Deckard fell in love with her as a human, and by doing so, she became
          human.


BRDC includes a scene not in the original release.  It is a dream sequence,
showing Deckard's dream of a white unicorn.  Given this, one can argue that
Gaff left the unicorn outside Deckard's apartment because he knew that Deckard
dreamt of a unicorn.  If Gaff knew what Deckard was dreaming, then we can
assume that Deckard was a replicant himself, and Gaff knew he would be dreaming
of a unicorn.


Quoted without permission from "The Blade Cuts", Starburst (UK) no. 51, Nov 82.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Scott:  ...did you see the version [of the script] with the unicorn?

McKenzie:  No...

S:      I think the idea of the unicorn was a terrific idea...

M:      The obvious inference is that Deckard is a replicant himself.

S:      Sure. To me it's entirely logical, particularly when you are doing a
        film noire, you may as well go right through with that theme, and the
        central character could in fact be what he is chasing...

M:      Did you actually shoot the sequence in the glade with the unicorn?

S:      Absolutely.  It was cut into the picture, and I think it worked
        wonderfully.  Deckard was sitting, playing the piano rather badly
        because he was drunk, and there's a moment where he gets absorbed
        and goes off a little at a tangent and we went into the shot of the
        unicorn plunging out of the forest.  It's not subliminal, but it's a
        brief shot.  Cut back to Deckard and there's absolutely no reaction
        to that, and he just carries on with the scene.  That's where the
        whole idea of the character of Gaff with his origami figures -- the 
        chicken and the little stick-figure man, so the origami figure of the
        unicorn tells you that Gaff has been there.  One of the layers of the
        film has been talking about private thoughts and memories, so how
        would Gaff have known that a private thought of Deckard was of a 
        unicorn?  That's why Deckard shook his head like that [referring to
        Deckard nodding his head after picking up the paper unicorn]."
        
Scott goes on to talk about how he decided to make the photograph of the little
girl with her mother come alive for a second, then later in the interview we
have:

M:      Are you disappointed that the references to Deckard being a replicant
        are no longer there?

S:      The innuendo is still there.  Ther French get it immediately!  I
        think it's interesting that he could be.




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. WHAT IS THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE CHESS GAME?

Sebastian's chess pieces are birds (he makes animals), Tyrell's are people
(he makes "people").

The chess game between Tyrell and Sebastian uses the conclusion of a game
played between Anderssen and Kieseritzky, in London in 1851. This is one of the
most famous and brilliant games ever played, and is universally known as
"The Immortal Game".

The concept of immortality has obvious associations in the ensuing
confrontation between Tyrell and Batty.

The Immortal Game, in algebraic notation, is as follows:

Anderssen - Kieseritzky
London 1851
1 e4 e5 2 f4 exf4 3 Bc4 Qh4+ 4 Kf1 b5 5 Bxb5 Nf6 6 Nf3 Qh6 7 d3 Nh5 8 Nh4 Qg5
9 Nf5 c6 10 Rg1 cxb5 11 g4 Nf6 12 h4 Qg6 13 h5 Qg5 14 Qf3 Ng8 15 Bxf4 Qf6
16 Nc3 Bc5 17 Nd5 Qxb2 18 Bd6 Qxa1+ 19 Ke2 Bxg1 20 e5 Na6 21 Nxg7+ Kd8
22 Qf6+ Nxf6 23 Be7 Checkmate.

Note that the chess boards in the film are not arranged as they would be if
they were following the Immortal Game, and that Sebastian's board does not
match Tyrell's.



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. PROBLEMS IN BLADE RUNNER

Plot
----

Why did Holden need to VK Leon, if the police already knew what he looked like?

Bryant first tells Deckard that there were six replicants, three male, three
female.  Obviously, Roy and Leon are two of the males, and Pris and Zhora are
two of the females.  Bryant also says that "one of them got fried trying to
get into the Tyrell building", but doesn't specify the sex.  That leaves one
replicant, either male or female.

It has been hypothesized that Deckard was the sixth replicant, but there is
ample evidence that this is not the case:

Some versions of the script include "Mary" as the sixth replicant, which means
that the one that got fried was male, and Deckard can't be the sixth replicant.

Why is it so difficult to tell a replicant from a human, when replicants can
put their hands in boiling/freezing liquids without damage?  Surely a tissue
sample would suffice?

How did word of Rachael's escape get out so quickly, and how could Tyrell tell
that she had gone for good?  Remember that Deckard called Rachael at
home while he was still at the nightclub.  It could not have been more than a
couple hours before he gave chase to Zhora.  (How long could she "take the
pleasure from the serpent"?)  Was that enough time for Rachael to run away, be
gone long enough for Tyrell to call the police about a missing replicant, and
have them tell Bryant to put Deckard onto it?

How did Roy get into Tyrell's office so easily?  Did Tyrell trust Sebastian
enough to give him the option of bringing anyone/anything up in the lift?

Supposedly an earlier version of the script had the Tyrell we see as a
replicant, and Roy picking up on this because of the lift letting him in.
(Supposedly the lift was programmed to accept only people that it knew...
meaning that it couldn't detect Roy.  This, however leads to a problem in that
the lift would be a better replicant identifier than the VK test.)
In that version, the real Tyrell was dead in a "cryocrypt", for sketches of
which see "The Blade Runner Sketchbook". Supposedly (after Roy kills Sebastian)
he finds the crypt and kills Tyrell; this would also allude to "UBIK".


Technical
---------

Norwegian subtites translate "Sushi... my ex-wife used to call me that... cold
fish" into "Sushi, my wife, used to call me a cold fish."

Swedish subtitles spell Roy's name "Beatty", translate Deckard's license
number from 260354 to 26354, "C-beams" to "seabeams".

In the very first shot of Batty, we see his hand clenching up. If you look
carefully as he turns his hand just before the shot changes, you can see
the nail sticking through the back of his hand. He doesn't actually insert
that nail until later in the film (The nail is easily spotted on the Criterion
CAV laserdisc: frames C-07 37124 and 37125).

Also, in the same scene, though Roy is supposedly alone (in a phone booth)
you see someone's hand on his shoulder.  This is actually a later scene with
Tyrell, shown in mirror image.

During the VK test, Leon says "My mother... let me tell you about my mother",
but when Deckard runs over this on his way to his apartment, Leon's voice
says "I'll tell you about my mother!".  This may just be Scott trifling with
the audience's memory, they way that Tyrell may be trifling with Deckard's.

The snake tattoo on Zhora only appears after the Esper machine has stopped
zooming, and when it produces a hard copy, Zhora's face is at a different angle
to that on the screen.  This scene was filmed twice.  [Source: "Cinefex" No 9,
1982]

When the Cambodian woman puts the snake scale into the electron microscope, she
doesn't take it out of the plastic bag.  We should be looking at a picture
of a plastic bag.  The serial number that she gives Deckard is not the same as
the one in the image.  Additionally, the image is not a snake scale, but a
female marijuana leaf.

When Deckard goes to Ben Hassan's (the snake dealer), their lip movements do
not match the dialog.  This scene remains the same in BRDC, which means that
Scott intended it to be there, or it was one of the sacrifices he was forced to
make in meeting the BRDC deadline.

When Zhora goes crashing through those plate-glass windows, the stunt double
looks nothing like the actress, and her wounds disappear and appear several
times.  The sounds of the bullets hitting her doesn't correspond to when she is
visibly hit.  Also, you can see her holding the trigger-ball and tube for the
bloodbags she is carrying.

When Leon throws Deckard into the car window, the window was already broken.
Not necessarily a goof, but could be.

In all versions of the film, events occur in this sequence:  Deckard kills
Zhora, and then buys a bottle of Tsing Tao.  Gaff grabs him, and takes him
to Bryant.  Deckard then chases Rachael, but gets beaten up by Leon.

When the film included Mary, the story ran as follows:  Deckard killed Zhora,
and then saw Rachael.  He chased Rachael, only to be beaten up by Leon.  After
Rachael killed Leon, Deckard THEN bought his bottle of Tsing Tao, and met with
Bryant, who told him that there were "four to go" (Roy, Pris, Mary, and
Rachael).

When they cut Mary from the film, they had a problem:  Bryant should say that
there were "three to go" (Roy, Pris, and Rachael).  Instead of reshooting this
scene, they moved it (and the scene of Deckard buying Tsing Tao, because Gaff
walks up to him and says "Bryant") to before Leon's death, so that the "four to
go" would be Roy, Pris, LEON (not Mary), and Rachael.  They nearly got away
with this, but are now a few problems:

        1) When Deckard is talking to Bryant, he shows wounds from his fight
           with Leon, although he hasn't had the fight yet.
        2) Since he now buys his bottle before he fights Leon, it should be
           there while he's chasing Rachael and fighting Leon (it's not).  The
           bottle mysteriously reappears when he gets back to his flat.
        3) Bryant's dialog as he steps out of the spinner is dubbed.

This error is also evident when Bryant tells Deckard at the beginning:
"I've got four skin jobs walking the streets", and then proceeds to tell him
that SIX replicants came to earth, and ONE had been fried (leaving five, not
four).

The song Rachael plays on the piano does not match the music she is looking at.

When Pris steps out of Sebastian's elevator, her hair is dry, but when she
is in the apartment proper, it's wet again.

The cuckoo clock in Sebastian's apartment strikes six twice.

Support cables are visible whenever you see a closeup of a spinner floating
above a city street.  The cable is really visible when Gaff takes-off with
Deckard in the beginning of the movie.  There is a close-up left profile shot
(front of spinner on left side of the screen) of a spinner rising through the
rain, and the line is very visible.  Later when a cop floats down to Deckard
sitting in his car and asks his business, you can see the cable if you look
closely.

Sebastian's and Tyrell's chess boards don't match.

In the Deckard/Batty confrontation, after Deckard has been given his gun back
and stalks off, you can see (in letterboxed/widescreen versions) the shadow of
the cameraman and camera on the wall.





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. TRIVIA / WHAT MAKES BLADE RUNNER POPULAR/SPECIAL?


Trivia
------

The following characters smoke cigarettes:
Holden, Bryant, Rachael, Pris, lady on video screen.

Deckard kills only women.

Pris' incept date is Valentine's Day.

"Deckard" is similar in pronunciation and spelling to "(Rene) Descartes",
a famous 17th century French philosopher.  Descartes (like Deckard) was 
fascinated by the question "What does it mean to be human".  Descartes was the
man who said "cogito ergo sum" (I think, therefore I am): exactly what Pris
tells Sebastian when he asks what she can do.

Some people claim that Holden's eyes glow after explaining to Leon that the
questions were written down for him.

Gaff's origami taunts Deckard:  when Deckard tries to leave Bryant's office
without taking the job, Gaff makes a chicken.  Gaff makes a man with a huge
erection to tease Deckard about either being attracted to Rachael, or getting
so involved/excited by the job (when he didn't want it in the first place).
Gaff might have felt that Deckard searching Leon's room was just "jacking off".

The origami evolves:  Chicken --> Man --> Unicorn (replicant?)

Eye symbolism is rampant:
    - The eye in the opening shots
    - Replicants' eyes glow
    - Tyrell has huge glasses to make his eyes bigger
        - glasses like Tyrell's were used in DADoES for fallout protection
    - Eyes are used in the VK test
    - Chew's Eye World
    - "Chew, if only you could see what I've seen with your eyes!"
    - Leon goes to stick his fingers in Deckard's eyes, just before he is shot
    - Batty plays with the glass-encased eyes in Sebastian's apartment
    - Batty sticks his thumbs in Tyrell's eyes
    - surrounding the top of the Bradbury building are large, bright blue,
      lighted half-orbs, which resemble eyes.
    - "I've SEEN things you people wouldn't believe"
    [more?]

The Japanese woman taking pills on the giant screen might be a homage to
Philip K Dick's book "UBIK".

Rachael's picture comes to life momentarily, and the soundtrack has the sound
of children playing.

Rachael's hairstyle:  as a replicant, it is perfect, rigid, machine like, and
cold.  As a human, it's soft, curly, and messed up.

The term "Blade Runner" suggests running along a thin edge (blade) one side
being human, the other replicant; it's a fine line between being human and a
replicant.

Blade Runner won the Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation in 1983
(beating out E.T.).  In a poll of members of the 1992 World Science Fiction
Convention, Blade Runner was named as the third most favorite SF film of all
time (behind Star Wars and 2001: A Space Odyssey).

Blade Runner was released the same month as _ET: The Extra Terrestrial_, which
might account for it's poor reception.



From:
BLADE RUNNER Production Notes (from the 1982 Presskit)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Actors Rutger Hauer, Brion James and James Hong worked for two days
amid icicles at U.S. Growers Cold Storage, Inc.

The "Blade Runner" company also filmed at two of L.A.'s most
beautiful architectural landmarks.  The front of the Ennis Brown
house in the Los Feliz area was designed in 1924 by Frank Lloyd
Wright in a Mayan block motif.  The building, the most monumental of
Wright's western experimental work, is seen in the film as the
entrance to Harrison Ford's apartment building, a huge condominium
complex, hundreds of stories high.

The Bradbury Building, built in 1893 and recently threatened with
architectural corruption by municipal safety modifications, was
preserved on film by "Blade Runner." In one scene, Ford traces Hauer
to the ornate edifice for the final showdown.  In another, industrial
designer J. F. Sebastian (William J. Sanderson) discovers street waif
Pris (Daryl Hannah) and takes her into his apartment.

[...]

Other locations included the downtown Pan Am Building, where Deckard
and Gaff search Leon's hotel room for clues.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Sebastian's apartment is full of bastardised creatures, part man, part machine,
and part animal.

There is a stuffed unicorn on Sebastian's work table (screen right, as the mice
scurry over scattered paraphernalia while Sebastian sleeps).

Each character is associated with an animal:

                Leon = Turtle
                Roy = Dove
                Zhora = Snake
                Rachael = Spider
                Tyrell = Owl
                Sebastian = Bear
                Pris = Raccoon
                Deckard = Sushi (raw fish) or Unicorn

"Ethyl methanesulfonate as an alkylating agent" is a mutagen, and the
subsequent debate between Batty and Tyrell correctly explores the problems
associated with changing a cell's DNA.

When Gaff picks up Deckard, the launch sequence on the computer is exactly
the same as in Scott's _Alien_, when the escape pod seperates from the Mother
ship.  When Deckard enters his apartment at the end, the background hum is the
same distinctive hum as in parts of _Alien_.

Notice that both _Alien_ and BR have "artificial persons", and there
is ambiguity as to who is/was a real human.  _Alien_ and BR are perfectly
compatible, the only problem being that Ash should have been a replicant, as
opposed to a robot.


RELIGIOUS/PHILOSOPHICAL PARALLELS:
----------------------------------

The replicants are fallen angels (fell from the heavens/outer space), with Roy
as Lucifer.

Tyrell lives in a giant pyramid (like a Pharaoh), which looks like a cathedral
inside, whereas Sebastian lives in an abandoned apartment with a "toilet bowl
plunger" on his head.

Tyrell creates. He builds his creations imperfect. Once of his creations
resents the inbuilt imperfection (since the creator had no reason apart from
fear to inhibit his creations), and returns to the creator to undo him.

Batty is the creator's son.  He returns to earth, and is persecuted by the
agents of society.  Deckard takes the role of Pilate, asking "What is reality?"
(on the roof of the Bradbury Building).  In John 18:38, Pilate asks "What is
truth?", which echoes the same sentiment (In German, both of these questions
could be phrased "Was ist Wahreit?").  Pilate/Deckard subsequently realize
that they have done wrong in the course of upholding the law.  By rescuing
Deckard, Batty shows a last act of forgiveness against those who would have
killed him, as did Christ during his crucifixion.

Tyrell's huge bed, pedestaled and canopied, is modeled after the bed of Pope
John Paul II.

Roy:

        "Fiery the angels fell,
         Deep thunder roll'd around their shores,
         Burning with the fires of Orc."

This is a paraphrase of William Blake's _America: A Prophesy_:

        "Fiery the angels rose, and as they rose deep thunder roll'd
         Around their shores: indignant burning with the fires of Orc."


When Roy finally confronts Tyrell, he calls him his "maker," and "the god of
biomechanics."  In the light of the parallels this film draws between the
plight of the replicants and that of all human being -- four years against
fourscore -- this scene has strange reverberations.  If Roy can condemn his
creator for determining his life span at four years, why can we not condemn
our Creator (if we choose to believe in one) for placing us under a death
sentence at birth.  Can we sit in judgment of God?

In so far as he creates artificial life and is killed by it, Tyrell is another
Dr. Frankenstein; but there the similarity ends.  He is punished not for
breaking God's law, but for wronging his creations.  And Roy -- robot, child,
monster, demigod -- is not an obscenity to be returned to oblivion as soon as
possible.

Roy puts a nail through his palm, a symbol of Christian crucifixion.

When Batty dies, he is released from torment as he releases the dove.  Only
shot of blue sky.  (The laserdisc notes say that they couldn't get the dove to
fly off into the rain.)

Deckard's voiceover after Roy's death muses "He wanted the answers that all of
us wanted.  Where did we come from?  Where are we going?  How long do I have?".
According to an essay in _Retrofitting Blade Runner_, these three questions are
very similar, if not almost exactly like those scribbled by the painter Gauguin
on the back of one of his paintings during one of his more suicidal phases.



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. MORE QUESTIONS/ANSWERS


This section contains some questions which cannot be answered by considering
solely the film.  In these cases, either auxilliary material is quoted, or a
rational explanation is offered.



Q: Whose eye is it at the start of the movie?
A: The storyboard says that it is Holden's


Q: Why would the Tyrell building have ceiling fans in it?
A: Ceiling fans are very efficient, even in 2019.


Q: How did Leon smuggle his gun into room where Holden VK'd him?  And how did
   he escape from the building, given that the whole incident was on videotape,
   and occurred high up in the Tyrell building?
A: According to news reports, the World Trade Center in New York that was
   bombed in February 1993 had about 100,000 people in the 110-story building
   (presumably both buildings).  The Tyrell Corp. also has two buildings and,
   according to various descriptions, is 700-stories tall.  Since the top story
   is several times the area of the WTC, the base must be enormously larger. 
   Also, it is surrounded by four buttresses that are probably equal in area to
   the WTC.  All of this suggests that the pyramid must be larger by as much
   as a factor of 100.  That suggests the pyramid might house up to 10 million
   people.
   It should be easy to get lost in a crowd that size.  Add in the fact there
   may be other replicants that look like Leon and you've got an impossible
   job.  We also know that Tyrell Corp. security is not perfect because, 1)
   Bryant tells Deckard one was fried trying to break in and the others got
   away, and 2) Batty gets in and kills Tyrell.


Q: What does the voice from the blimp say?
A: "A new life awaits you in the Off-World colonies.  The chance to begin again
   in a golden land of opportunity and adventure. New climate, recreational 
   facilities.....absolutely free.  Use your new fried as a personal body
   servant or a tireless field hand--the custom tailored genetically engineered
   humanoid replicant designed especially for your needs.  So come on America,
   let's put our team up there...." 


Q: Why can't Tyrell afford a real owl?
A: The Febryary 1981 screenplay was written as:

   Deckard:  "It's artificial?"

   Rachael:  "Of course not."

   I believe this is how it was shot.  If you watch Rachael's lips when she is
   saying this, it looks like an overdub.  Hard to see except in a theater.

   Tyrell may want to keep a replicant owl in his penthouse, the same as
   most companies have showpiece models in their offices.

   Note further that in DADoES, the "Tyrell corporation" lied to Deckard 
   (that is, told him it was real) as an attempted bribe.


Q: Who is the guy lying down in the photo Deckard uses in his image processor?  
A: Roy?


Q: How did Rachael get away with killing Leon in public, when she was wanted
   dead by the police?  The police arrived pretty soon after Deckard killed
   Zhora, so why didn't they swoop when Rachael killed Leon?
A: Deckard kills Zhora in the midst of a crowded street.  Leon picked a
   deserted alley to maul Deckard.


Q: How can Tyrell tell Roy that "We made you to the best of our abilities",
   when he deliberately gave him a four year lifespan?
A: What Tyrell means is: You were made as well as we dared make you because we
   can only control you for so long.  This explanation assumes Bryant is
   correct in saying the 4-year lifespan is built-in.  But it's possible Tyrell
   simply turned a problem into a benefit by claiming advantages for a 4-year
   lifespan rather than limitations.  When Sebastian says, "There's some of me
   in you," he might well be referring to the Methuselah Syndrome.


Q: Why are real animals so expensive if there are lots of birds living in
   Sebastian's building?
A: DADoES offers an explanation: some animals are rarer than others.  Pigeons
   will always be cheap.


Q: Batty calls Deckard by name during the chase at the end.  How did he know
   Deckard's name?
A: This is either a technical error in the film, or an indication that Batty
   knew Deckard, and Deckard doesn't remember Batty.  One theory is that
   Deckard (and possibly Rachael) were replicants, and part of the rebellion.
   They were caught alive entering the Tyrell building, and as an experiment
   they were retrained as an ex-Blade Runner, and a replicant who think's
   she's a human.  The experiment was to see if a replicant could turn on other
   replicants that he/she used to know.  This explanation is a bit weak and
   far fetched, as it relies on the Tyrell corporation retraining Deckard but
   not changing his name.  (Imagine if Roy had called him "Mr Smith"!)
   This makes the Deckard/Zhora confrontation more interesting: she would have
   recognized him, and would be wondering if he was having a joke or not.  When
   she realized that he was for real, she clobbered him.  This could also give
   Bryant an excuse for getting the number of escaped replicants wrong.
   Different versions of the script have Deckard as a well-known Blade Runner,
   so in that case it would be reasonable for Batty to know him..


Q: Batty's incept date of January 2016 means that he should have lived to
   January 2020. Why did he die in November 2019?
A: The margin of error on a replicant's lifetime is probably the same as that
   of any human with a fatal disease.


Q: How did Gaff get Deckard's gun?  Was he following them?
A: Deckard sits on the roof for a long time.  Gaff probably followed Deckard's
   groundcar, or checked out the radio reports of Sebastian's death, walked
   around to piece together what happened, then found Deckard's gun.


Q: Which companies/products have their logos appearing in BR?
A: ANACO, Atari, Atriton, Budweiser, Bulova, Citizen, Coca-Cola, Cuisine Art,
   Dentyne, Hilton, Jovan, JVC, Koss, Lark, Marlboro, Million Dollar Discount,
   Mon Hart, Pan Am, Polaroid, RCA, Remy, Schiltz, Shakey's Toshiba, Star
   Jewelers, TDK, The Million Dollar Movie, TWA, Wakamoto.


Q: What is this "Blade Runner Curse"?
A: Someone once noticed that a number of the companies whose logos
   appeared in BR had financial difficulties after the film was released.
   Atari had 70% of the home console market in 1982, but faced losses of
   over $2 million in the first quarter of 1991.  RCA was dismantled in 1986.
   Bell lost it's monopoly in 1982.  Pan-Am filed for bankruptcy protection in
   1991.  It is interesting to note that the Coca-Cola company has seen the
   biggest growth in the last 10 years of any American company in history.
   Cusinart filed for bankruptcy protection in July 1989.


Q: Is there going to be a sequel to Blade Runner?
A: Ridley Scott has said that he is interested in doing a sequel.  It is
   rumoured that he is considering Gerard Depardieu (whom he directed in
   _1492_) as one of the actors.
   The general opinion on the net is that this is a bad idea:  it is rare
   for sequels to live up to the original.  Sequels that have worked have
   been: Aliens, The Godfather Part II/III, Terminator 2: Judgement Day,
   and The Empire Strikes Back/Return of the Jedi.  Sequels that have not
   worked are:  Highlander II: The Quickening, and Alien^3.
   It's interesting to note that except for _Aliens_, all of the good sequels
   have been made by the people who made the original, whereas the bad sequels
   were made by a different group.  If Scott could assemble a similar crew to
   the one he used for the original, we could have a good sequel.

Q: Batty's nail disappears when he catches Deckard.
A: The bottom of the frame is slightly cropped (even on the Criterion disc),
   which prevents us from seeing the nail.  It is nevertheless there and can be
   seen for a single frame at C-19 24493.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. IS DECKARD A REPLICANT?


This question causes the most debate among BR fans.  The different versions
of BR support this notion to differing degrees.  One might argue that in the
theatrical release (1982), Deckard is not a replicant, but in BRDC, he is.

There is no definitive answer: Ridley Scott himself has stated that, although
he deliberately made the ending ambiguous, he also intentionally introduced
enough evidence to support the notion, and (as far as he is concerned), Deckard
is a replicant.
[See section 9]


The "for" case
--------------

- Ridley Scott and Harrison Ford have stated that Deckard was meant to be a
  replicant:

    Noise-free post from October 1992 "Details" (Discussions on Blade Runner);
    reprinted without permission:

        FORD: "Blade Runner was not one of my favorite films. I tangled
        with Ridley. The biggest problem was that at the end, he wanted the
        audience to find out that Deckard was a replicant. I fought that
        because I felt the audience needed somebody to cheer for."

- Gaff knew that Deckard dreamt of a unicorn, therefore Gaff knew what dreams
  that Deckard had been implanted with. (BRDC only)

- Replicants have a penchant for photographs, because it gives them a tie to
  their non-existent past.  Deckard's flat is packed with photos, and none of
  them are recent or in color.  Despite her memories, Rachael needed a photo as
  an emotional cushion.  Likewise, Deckard would need photos, despite his
  memory implants.

- Gaff tells him "You've done a man's job, sir!".  (Early drafts of the script
  have him then add: "But are you sure you are man?  It's hard to be sure who's
  who around here.")

- Only a replicant could survive the beatings that Deckard takes, and then
  pull itself up onto the roof with two fingers.

- Bryant's threat "..if you're not a cop, you're little people" might be 
  a allusion to Deckard being created solely for police work.

- Deckard's eyes glow (yellow-orange) when he tells Rachael that he wouldn't go
  after her, "but someone would".  This is hard to spot: Deckard is standing
  behind Rachael, and he's out of focus.

- Deckard's character is much like Holden's.

- If you listen closely in the audio dissolve during Rachael's VK test, you can
  hear Deckard say "orange body, green legs".  How did he know that this was
  significant to Rachael?

- Roy knew Deckard's name, yet he was never told it.  Some people claim that
  Deckard was part of Roy's off-world rebellion, but was captured by the police
  and used to hunt down the others.

- Bryant got the number of escaped replicants wrong becuase he mistakenly
  counted Deckard.

- Gaff seems to follow Deckard everywhere - he is at the scene of all the
  Replicant retirings almost immediately.  Gaff is always with Deckard when
  the chief is around.  This suggests that Gaff is the real BR, and that
  Deckard is only a tool Gaff uses to do the dirty work.



The "against" case
------------------

- A major point of the film was to show Deckard (The Common Man) the
  value of life. "What's it like to live in fear?"  If all the main characters
  become replicants, the contrast between humans and replicants is lost.

- Rachael was the one with an implanted unicorn dream, Deckard dreamt of the
  unicorn (BRDC) as both he and Gaff viewed Rachael's implants.

- Deckard's unicorn dream happened after his "incept", so there is no guarantee
  that Gaff would know about it.

- Why send a replicant to kill other replicants?  What was Deckard doing on
  Earth, if replicants are outlawed there?  Why did the police trust him?

- If Deckard was a replicant designed to be a Blade Runner, why did they give
  him bad memories of the police force?  It would have suited them much more
  if he had been loyal and happy.



===============================================================================
                                  NOTES

This file has been primarily compiled from my own viewings of Blade Runner,
debates on the Internet, and private email messages.  The contributors are too
numerous to mention, and this task would never have been completed had I
replied to everyone that sent me mail.

Special thanks to:
                William M. Kolb (bkolb@arinc.com)
                Peter Merel (pete@extro.ucc.su.OZ.AU)
                Geoff Wright (gmw4432@bcstec.ca.boeing.com)
                Michael Kaufman (kaufman@delta.eecs.nwu.edu)
                Steve Griffiths (etlsngs@etlxd20.ericsson.se)
                Juhana Kouhia (kouhia@nic.funet.fi)


I regularly read the movie newsgroups, but I am more likely to get your message
if you email it directly to me.

At present, I have no plans to form a mailing list, however this may change,
depending on how many people are interested.  My policy stands like this at the
moment:  If you don't have access to net news, I'll mail it to you.  If you
still don't get it, that means the mail has bounced, and you should try again,
possibly with a different return address.

-- Murray Chapman                               Zheenl Punczna            --
-- muzzle@cs.uq.oz.au                           zhmmyr@pf.hd.bm.nh        --
-- University of Queensland                     Havirefvgl bs Dhrrafynaq  --
-- Brisbane, Australia                          Oevfonar, Nhfgenyvn       --
