From: mrapple@quack.sac.ca.us (Nick Sayer)
Newsgroups: alt.tv.ren-n-stimpy,alt.fan.ren-and-stimpy
Subject: The Ren & Stimpy Show: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Date: 1 May 1992 12:30:05 GMT
Organization: The Duck Pond public unix: +1 408 249 9630, log in as 'guest'.

Archive-name: ren-n-stimpy.faq
Version: Sun Apr  5 15:41:50 PDT 1992

Before you post a question about R&S, you should read this
list to see if your question has already been answered.
If you have corrections, additions, suggestions, or
hairballs, send them to mrapple@quack.sac.ca.us with
$47,000,000.

R&S = The Ren & Stimpy Show
Nick = Nickelodeon - the network that first aired R&S

1. What is R&S?

"The Ren & Stimpy Show" is one of three new cartoon shows (collectively
known as "The Nicktoons") produced by Nickelodeon, a Cable TV
channel in North America. The two main characters are an "asthma-hound"
chihuahua named "Ren Hoek" (with an umlaut over the o), and a cat named
"Stimpson J. Cat". The show's attraction is its check-your-brain-at-
the-door humor. It is suitable (and funny) for the whole family.

2. When/where can I see R&S?

Currently, R&S can only be seen via cable TV or satellite. It airs on
Nickelodeon Sundays at 11 AM (Pacific/Eastern). It also airs on MTV at 8:30
PM Saturday (Pacific/Eastern). MTV showings are inferior to the showing on
Nick, since they stick the MTV logo on the lower right corner and have more
commercials. MTV also compresses the audio so badly that you could watch the
whole show and hardly see the meter twitch. MTV also doesn't start the show
on time. Incidently, MTV Networks, Inc., owns Nick. Aparently MTV is owned
in large part by Viacom.

3. My site seems to get two R&S newsgroups. What's the deal?

At the time a newsgroup for R&S was being discussed, the original
idea was for the alt.fan group. Many (including this author)
counter-proposed that it should be under alt.tv. When it came
time to create the groups, both newgroups went out. It is
the poster's opinion that since it is a TV show, it belongs
in alt.tv. The alt.tv group is not called 'ren-and-stimpy'
because that would be too long for certain (broken) news
programs or operating systems. 'ren-&-stimpy' is inappropriate
because it contains a non-alphanumeric character other than '- or _'.

4. How do I pronounce Ren's name?

The name is apparently German, and thus an English pronunciation
will only be approximate. It ends up as "Hork" (rhymes with "pork").
They play with this in the show and intentionally mispronounce it
"HO-ack" or "HO-ehk" from time to time. His first name rhymes with
"pen," of course.

5. Who makes R&S?

The creative force behind R&S is John Kricfalusi. He is also
Ren's voice. John K.'s last name is pronounced "KRIS-fah-loo-see".

>From ebh@mink.att.com:
He [John K] was a major creative force (under the [Ralph] Bakshi umbrella)
behind the New Adventures of Mighty Mouse, and he was also involved with
The Jetsons.

Stimpy's voice is Billy West. Billy West is also the voice of
"Doug," one of the other Nicktoons. West used to work at WBCN
in Boston, which is famous for shock-radio.

The creative organization is called "Spumco". The company
motto is "The Danes call it quality." Aparently, however, according
to one poster the motto is a non-sequiter. They just made it up
because it sounded silly. The boy whose picture is shown with
the motto is Billy, the retartded boy - the company mascot.

6. What are the words to...

   ... the 'Log' song?

   "What rolls down stairs alone or in pairs [*]
    rolls over your neighbor's dog?
    It's great for a snack and fits on your back
    It's Log, Log, Log!

    It's Log, Log, it's big, it's heavy, it's wood.
    It's Log, Log, it's better than bad, it's good!
    Everyone wants a log! You're gonna love it, Log!
    Come on and get your log! Everyone needs a Log!"

    [*] The author heard "Log" as the first word of the song
    rather than "What," but no word has been heard from
    Spumco on the subject.

    ... the Oath?

    "I do hearby promise only to watch the Ren & Stimpy show,
    to make underleg noises during the good scenes,
    to wear unwashed leiderhosen every single day all
    the rest of my life."

    At least one poster claims 'underleg' is underling,
    but the concensus is for the former (underleg noises
    being farts, of course. Hardly an episode goes by
    that someone doesn't cut one).

    ... The Muddy Mudskipper theme song?

    "Who's the greatest mudskipper of them all?
    Who can skip in the mud with the greatest of ease?
    What kind of wonderful guy?

    Who can crawl like a dog without scraping his knees?
    Who's got segmented eyes?

    It's Muddy Mudskipper, it's Muddy Mudskipper
    It's the Muddy Mudskipper show!"

    ... Stimpy's "Gritty Kitty" poem?

    Gritty Kitty aint't so pretty, but it's really thick
    It fills my cat box oh so snug, it always does the trick
    I like to rub it on my toes and squish and squish and squish
    It ne'er offends my tender nose, like a smelly fish
    Its texture is a joy to me, it's just as smooth as silk
    It makes my little whiskers twitch, it stays crunchy even in milk
    I may not be the president, I may not be the pope
    But as long as I have Gritty Kitty, I shall never mope.

    ... The "Happy Happy Joy Joy" song?

    Hello, boys and girls. This is your old pal, Stinky Weazleteats. [*]
    This is a song about a whale. No! This is a song about being happy!
    That's right! It's the Happy Happy Joy Joy song!

    [chorus]
    Happy Happy Joy Joy Happy Happy Joy Joy
    Happy Happy Joy Joy Happy Happy Joy Joy
    Happy Happy Joy Joy Happy Happy Joy Joy
    Happy Happy Joy Joy Joy!

    I don't think you're happy enough! That's right! I'll teach you to
    be happy! I'll teach your grandmother to suck eggs! Now, boys and
    girls, let's try it again!

    [chorus]

    If'n you aint the grandaddy of all liars! The little critters of
    nature... They don't know that they're ugly! That's very funny, a
    fly marrying a bumblebee! I told you I'd shoot! But you didn't
    believe me! Why didn't you believe me?!

    [chorus without last line]
    Happy Happy Happy Happy
    Happy Happy Happy Happy
    Happy Happy Joy Joy Joy!

    * Stinky's last name is up for debate. It actually sounds more like
    "Whizzleteats", but substituting the short I for long E in 'weasle'
    is an often-heard rural mispronunciation.

7. What is the meaning behind or origin of...

    [ Much of the items that seem like obscure or trivial humor are in
    fact non-sequiturs. There's no meaning. They're just there for the
    hell of it. ]

    ... The Crock-o-stimpy Bus? [ "Untamed World" ]

    Non-sequitur.

    ... "We're not hitchiking anymore! We're riding!" [ "Space Madness" ]

    From jeffy@athena.mit.edu:
    This is apparently from the movie "Centurion." The line was
    delivered by Kirk Douglas (see below).

    ... The face that rises and sets over Hollywood during "Stimpy's Big
    Day?"

    From: ebh@mink.att.com:
    The face is apparently Kirk Douglas. According to John K.,
    Kirk Douglas was the inspiration for Ren.

    ... The various narrations in the "Happy Happy Joy Joy" song?

    [ data, please ]

8. Is it "No sir, I _DON'T_ like it", or "No sir, I _DIDN'T_
   like it"?

Both. "Don't" is heard in "Stimpy's Big Day/The Big Shot,"
and "didn't" is heard in "Fire Dogs," and "Marooned."

9. Does anyone have a list of episodes?

It is posted at the same time as this FAQ list.

10. What is the title of the one that spoofs "Wild Kingdom"?

This is a point of controversy. The titles read "A Cartoon /
Written by Jim Smith & John K. / Storyboards by Jim Smith /
Directed by John K. / Untamed World".

Some believe it is titled simply "Untamed World" under the theory that
the first thing you see doesn't have to be the title. It would
have been awkward to put the credits after "Untamed World" because
of how the action goes. It would have been similarly awkward to
start off with "Written by". "A Cartoon" was thus simply used to
intro the credits.

Some believe that since "A Cartoon" is capitalized and appears
by itself that it must be a title, and call it "A Cartoon"
or "A Cartoon: Untamed World".

No official word from Spumco has been received on the subject.

11. Does Nickelodeon censor R&S?

The opening titles contain scenes from "Big House Blues" and point to the
possibility that Nickelodeon has cut scenes from the show.  In particular,
Nick's rendering of BHB does NOT show the scene where Ren is 'drinking from
the porcelain bus'.  Additionally, although Nick originally showed the entire
"Magic Nose Goblins" ending, they have since then started doing a quick fade
as the scene panned over the 'field of green'.  There are other places in the
series where editing may have taken place. In particular, in "Untamed World",
there is a blackout, then a wipe to the next scene.  Nowhere else does this
take place.

>From jeffy@athena.mit.edu:
There were a few incidences in "Big House Blues."  In one scene, the dog-
catcher asks R&S if they like to have fun; R&S agree. "Well go ahead, have
fun!" [then, in the missing footage, the dogcatcher turns his back, and
says in a feminine voice, "See if I care."]  Also, during the sleep sequence,
Ren ends up kissing Stimpy, then wakes up, screams, says something about
having to "clean himself," and goes to toilet, drinking out of it (not
vomiting into it).  Or maybe it's eating, who can say.

12. What about the music?

Apart from a few selections and the opening/closing themes, there is not a
single piece of original music in the whole show. Instead, R&S quotes
extensively from the classical reprotoire, as well as 50's style TV themes
and takes. Space prohibits a complete listing here.

>From Jeffy@athena.mit.edu:
John K apparently wrote "The Muddy Mudskipper Show" theme, and the
"Happy Happy Joy Joy" song.

>From jondr@sco.com:
Chris Recardi write the HHJJ song. He has done work for Tiny Toon
Adventures, among other things.

13. Where can I get R&S...

    ... videos?

    Unfortunately, there is no way to obtain R&S except to tape it.
    Previous announcements that it was available on "Tournee of
    Anumation" tapes was in error.

    ... GIFs?

    calvin.nmsu.edu (192.20.239.129)

    ... sounds?

    From jcp@gauss.rutgers.edu:
    ab20.larc.nasa.gov

    ... shirts?

    They've now spread to most any mall T-shirt store.

    ... "Log," "Log for Girls," "Powdered Toast," etc?

    "You sick little monkey!" "Don't you know cartoons will ruin your MIND?!"
            -- Ren

    ... other products for the drooling fanboy in each of us?

    Stay tuned.

14. What about the future of R&S?

One of the problems with R&S is the lack of material at the present
time. Without commercials, the whole series would almost fit on a two
hour videotape. This leads to constant rerunning.

Nick aired the last unaired segments of the first season on Feb 23.

Nick has paid for 20 new episodes next season. Starting dates range
from March to August, depending on who you're talking to. The most
reliable estimate seems to be August, since in March word has reached
the net of "help-wanted" adds from Spumco appearing in animation
trade magazines.


