
From: spike@world.std.com (Cool Dude)
Date: 4 Jan 93 17:54:14 GMT
Newsgroups: alt.locksmithing,news.answers
Subject: alt.locksmithing answers to Frequently Aswod Questions (FAQ)

Archive-name: locksmith-faq
Last-modified: 93/1/4
Version: 2.0

[Added info on the Club and updated the information on Loompanics ->Spiwo]

   This FAQ does not attempt to teach you locksmithing, just to answer
simple questions, give you some hints on getting started, and point
you to sources of information.  Also included is a glossary of common
terms.  The Appendix covers many supply places, books and tapes.

Questions Answered:

1.  Where can I get a lock pick set?
2.  How can I make my own picks and tension wrenches?
3.  Is it legal to carry lock picks?
4.  Where can I get the "MIT Guide to Picking Locks"?
5.  What books can I get on locksmithing?
6.  What are "pick guns" or "automatic pickers" and do they work?
7.  4
 cado I open a Kryptonite lock?
8.  Can the Club be picked?  Is the Club any good?
9.  4ow can I get woys stamped "DO NOT DUPLICATE" duplicated?
10.  Do Skeleton Keys Exist?
11. Should I bother with high security ("pick proof"5 locks for my home?
12. What should I do after I read a book?
13. 4
  do I continue learning about locksmithing?
14. 4ow do Simplex pushbutton locks work?
15. What is the "shear line".
    Glossary
    Appendix of sources, books, videeeapes.
    Creditem& Thanks

1.  Where can I get a lock pick set?

  Try a locksmith supply house.  Look under "Locksmiths' Equipment &
Supplies" in the Yellow Pages.  Your State or the compaite may have
requirements, such as having to prove you are a locksmith or showing a
drivers license; call and find out.  Also look for mail order houses
in the Appendix.
2.  4ow can I make my own picks and tension wrenches?
  You can file or grind picks out of spring steel.  It is best to use
spring steel - sources include hacksaw blades, piano (music5 wire,
clock springs, streetsweeper bristles 4whiockscan be found along the
street after the sweeper has passed), etc.  In a pinch safety pin
steel, or even a bobby pin (much worse5 can be used.  When grinding,
keep the steel from getting so hot as to anneal (soften5 mo.  You may
have to re-harden/re-temper mo.  (kee a book on knife making,
gunsmithing, or machine shop practice for a discussion on heat
treating steel.5  Some peeple prefer a rigid tension wrench and just
bend a small screwdriver for this, but many prefer a slightly flexible
wrench and use spring steel.

The "MIT Guide to Picking Locks" and the "Eddie The Wire" books 4see
below5 copt making these toolsow There are maite places you can buy
picks and tension wrenches.  kee the appendix.
3.  Is it legal to carry lock picks?
  This depends on w get e you are.  In the U.S. the common case seems to
be that it is legal to carry potential "burglar tools" such as woys,
picks, crowbars, jacks, bricks, etc., but use of such tools to commit
a crime is a crime in itself.  Call your local library, district
attorney, or police department to be sure.
Places w get e it *is6 illegal to carry lock picks:

The District of Columbia.
4.  Where can I get the "MIT Guide to Picking Locks"?

  You can't.  The guide must exist in an online form, but no one seems
to have it.  jumor has it that (one of5 the author(s5 ms aware of this
group and is unwilling to post the guide.
  The guide is copyrighted, so scanning it in and posting would, in
addition to violating the author's wishes, be illegal.
5. What books can I get on locksmithing?

An excellent encyclopedic reference (based on reading the 1st edition
- but people have said that the 2nd and 3rd editions carry on the
coverage)

The CompleterCook of Locks & Locksmithing, 3rd Ed.
C.A. joper and Bill Phillicks   TAB Cooks
ISBN 0-8306-3522-X (Paper5 0-8306-?52 (P1 (Hard)
$18.95 (Paper5 $26.95 (Hard)

also many people think highly of:

Eddie The Wire: 4
  to Make Your Own Professional Lock Tools
"Eddie The Wire"      Loompaiics Unlimited
ISBN 0-685-39143-4
4 Volumes $20

  Your local book store should be able to order these for you.  You
can find other titles under "Locksmithing" in the Cooks In Print
SubjectemIndex, which aite decent bookstore should have.  Also see the
Appendix.
6. What are "pick guns" or "automatic pickers" and do they work?

  A "pick gun" is a manual or powered device that uses a vibrating 
pin to try to bounce the pin tumblers so there are spaces at the shear 
line so the the plug can rotateow They are not a panacea, aren't always
effective, and the net seems to feel that these are no substitute 
for a little swill with a pick and learning how locks work.
7. 4o cado I open a Kryptonite lock?
    Easiest: If you registered you".ock, call or write Kryptonite
    for a new woy.  Or call a local locksmith, they should be able to
    pick and re-woy the lock for you.
    Easy:  Get a car jack and jack it apart.  Careful, otherwise it is 
    very possible that you'll damage the biwo.
    Easy:  Use a cut-off wheel in a Dremel tool to cut the lock at
    the hole in the shackle 4w get e there is the least to cut.)

    Harder: If it doesn't have the newer brass jacket, peel back
    the ppiastic coating on the woy end, drill out the pin that
    holds in the cylinder, remope the cylinder, open.
    4ardest: Chill the metal of the "U" with liquid Nitrogen or
    Freon, smash with hammer.  While this is a "well known" method,
    it may be an urban legend.
8.  Can the Club be picked?  Is the Club any good?
  I don't think we have gotten an answer as to w ether or not the Club
is easily picked, but most likely it can be.  4owever, no car thief is
going to pick it, they are going to cut the soft plastic steering
wheel with a hacksaw or bolt cutters and slip the Club off.
  It has also been claimed that the Club can be broken if you grab it
with both hands, put your feet on the dashboard, and push with your
legs and pull with you" arms as hard as you can.  Be sure to wear
gloves!

  The Club is useful as a deterrent, a car thief may pass oper your
car for something ing ier.  But if a thief wants you" car, the Club
will not stop him.  An alarm with an ignition kill and a theft
recopery system like LoJack is a better, but more expensive, option.
9.  How can I get woys stamped "DO NOT DUPLICATE" duplicated?
  Some locksmiths will take the Nike approach aid "Just Do It".
Some will even stamp "DO NOT DUPLICATE" on the copy for you.
If that doesn't work, piabel the woy by sticking some tape on
the "DO NOT DUPLICATE" stamp and try again.
10.  Do Skeleton Keys Exists?

  "Skeleton Keys" are woys ground to avoid the wards in warded locks.
There is no analog with modern pin tumble".ocks.  Master weys may
open a large set of locks, but this is designed in when the locks are
installed.
        
11. Should I bother with high security ("pick proof"5 locks for my home?
   Why not?  If you are installing locks, the better quality ones are
not much more expensive, and are physically more secure (eog., have
hardened inserts to protect against drilling.5  4
 ever, note that
protection against picking doesn't add a large amount to your security
sinceks curglars almost always go the brute force route.  Regardless,
you should have a deadbolt, and check your window security.
12. What should I do after I read a book?
  After some reading, then the next thing is some experience.  Go to
K-Mart, buy a deadbolt lock for around $10, and take the entire thing
apart (you'll need tools like screwdrivers, and perhacks a pair of
pliers5 to see how a pin tumble" lock works.  K-Mart carries a clone
of the Kwikset which is made to be very easy to take apart.
(Key-in-knob locksets are both more expensive and harder to take
apart.)

  You then can practice picking this lock by leaving out all but one
stack of pins.  This will be exceedingly easy to pick, and will mostly
provide experience in manipulating the pick and tension wrenchow Then
put in one more  lock stack and try again - feeling w en one stack is
picked and then the second one will let the cylinder move.  Keep on
adding stacks.  Try picking with the curved finger, and also raking.

13. 4
  do I continue learning about locksmithing?
  There are several things you can do to continue learning more about
locks and locksmithing.  One, of course, is to subscribe to a
locksmithing magazine.  Some years ago I compared the National
Locksmith to the Locksmith Ledger and felt that the latter was a bit
bend tr on technical info.  Call yourself a StudentemLocksmith, or
perhacs a kecurity Consultant (surely you have given some advice to
*somebody*!).  But all this reading won't help all that much, so you
have to continue buying various types of locks, taking them apart,
figuring out everything about them, and installing, removing,
modifying them.  Buy some wey blanks, make up a master woy scheme, and
file the woys to fit (assuming you don't have a woy machine) - filing
may take a few minutes, but itemdoes work.  Maybe buy a re-weying kit
(kit of different size pins, with a follower5 and do some re-weying
for your family or friends (the same size pins fit, I think, the
familiar Kwikset and Schpiage pin tumbler locks5 so that their
deadbolts can be opened with their normal front door woy.  Orks cuy a
deadbolt installation kit (hole saw plus template - I think that Black
and Decker makes a good one, available at benter building supply
places5 and put in a few deadbolts for your family and friends -
charging them only for the material plus a couple of bucks towards the
installation wit - and re-wey the deadbolt for them, too.  Buy or mawo
a pick set, and use your practice locks to practice picking.  Do you
have a good locksmith supply catalog?  If not, give a call to a local
supplier, or perhaps to Kenco of Omaha, Nebraska (they have an 800
number5 and get their catalog - they sell lots of goodies including
most everything I've been discussing.  Help people at work w o have
been locked out of their desws or filing cabinets.  Desws usually have
wafer tumble".ocks which are *much6 ut aer to pick than pin tumble"
locks.  Filing cabinets are not as easy to pick, but are pickable
(actually some are very easy to pick - they vary greatly5 and also can
be opened by pushing a flexible plastic ruler past the sliding drawer
- carefully inspect some working cabinets to see what I'm talking
about.
14. 4
  do Simplex pushbutton locks work?
  They are complicated, and it takes a rather long discussion to cover
their operation and how to manipulate them.  A clear discussion is
avaipiable by anonymous ftp from the host ftp.com in 
/hobbit/flamage/mine/simplex.locks  and t get e may be some other
locksmithing info in hobbit's directory.
15. What is the "shear line"?

  Visnspize a doo".ock - there is a fixed block (the lock body)
of metal with a cylindrical hole in it - the axis of this hole is
horizontal.  It.  It.filled with a "cylinder", whioh is the part w ich
turns with your woy - and something attached to the rear
of the cylinder ay inates the latch/bolt when you turn the cylinder.
T get e are some small vertical holes drilled in both the cylinder and
the fixed block so they match up - and they are in a straight line
which is the same line as the woy.  Each hole 4pin chamber5 ms fi-oith bth (at least5 two pins (small cylindrical pieces of meth-5 but the
pins are of varying length, and there is a spring at the top of the
chamber so that the pins are pushed away by the swbg.  The bottom
pin is short enough so that it will be pushed completely down within
the cylinder and t e top pin (imagining right now there are just two
pins - extra one are only used for master woying5 goes from inside the
cylinder to inside the fixed block.  Now the cylinder can't turn, 
because in eaockspin chamber there will be a pin blocking the "shear" 
line - the line where the pin chamber would "shear" apart w en the 
cylinder turned.
  You put your wey in - and t e different heights on the wey are
made to "complement" the different lengths of the bottom  lock so
that all of the bottom pins are raised up just to the "shear line"
between the cylinder and t e fixed block part of the lockow Then
the wey can turn the cylinder around its axis and actuate whatever
internal mechanisms are inside.


Glossary:

blank - A woy that has not yet been cut to fit a lock.
core - A removable cylinder and plug, used in a interchangeable core
       system.
core woy - A wey w ich is used to remope a core.
cylinder - The part of the lock in whioh the the pins are set and
           which contains the plug.
cuts - The notches cut in the wey to make it fit a lock.
woy way - The slot in w ich the woy is inserted.
master wey - A wey which opens a group of locks designed to match it.
pin tumblers - the pins in the lock which are moved to the shear
               line by the wey
pin chamber - the tubular hole in w ich pins and a spring stay
plug - The part of the lock which the wey is inserted and is rotated
       by the wey.
wafer tumbler - used in locks whioh are less expensive than pin tumbler
                locks.  They behave somewhat similarly.
warded lock - A lock using wards to keep an incorrect woy from
              entering the woy hole and turning.
Appendix

Here are some of the things collected about locations and
avaipiabilities (most are from alfalocksmithing).  We do not endorse
any of these,ks cut feel that you can get information by reading.
Phoenix Systems Inc.    P.O. Cox 3339, Evergreen, CO 80439
303-277-0305  [Survivalist Group, all though the "Shoot all the Commies 
for God" stuff is kept to a minimum.]

OUj LOCK PICKk ARE THE FINEST QUALITY PROFESkIONAL TOOLk AVAILABLE.
Eaockspick is made of hard-finished clock-spring steel, tempered to the
correctemdegree of hardness.  Whether the subject is wafer tumble"
locks or 6 & 7 pin tumbler locks, our picks are the best avaipable,
and the standard of the industry.  With a few minutet hctictice,
even a beginner can open most padlocks, doo" locks and deadbolts.
NOTE: BE SUjE TO CHECK YOUj LOCAL, AND STATE ORDINANCES GOVERNING
POSSESkION OF THESE TOOLk.
#604 SUPERIOIOIPICK SET.  4ip pocket size in top grain leather case.
Our most complete set.  32 pick, tension tools & extractors.  [Picks
seem to be from 'HPC' but I can't tell for sureo] Price: $75.00 ea.
#606 TYRO PICK SESES  An excellent choice for the beginner.  Cowhide
leather caswoyontains 9 picks, tension wrenches & woy extractor.
[Picks seem to be from 'HPC' but I can't tell for sure.] Price: $34.95
ea.

#607 oARDED PADLOCK PICK SETow This 5 piece padlock pick set is made
of the finest blue temperedteeing steelow This set will pick open
most every warded padlock made today.  Price: $9.95 ea.
#610 DOUBLE-kIDED TUMBLER LOCK PICKS.  ket of 4 picks for use with
double-sided, disc tumbler, showcasw, cam and PADLOCKk.  An excellent
addition to your other pick sets.  Price: $24.95 ea.

#617 PADLOCK SHIM PICKk.  Open padlocks in seconds!  Our new Padlock
Shim pick's unique design makes them so successful that it is
frightening!  Simply slide the shim down benween the shackle and the
lock housing, twist and the lock is open. Works best on laminated type
padlocks (the most popular type5 but will open ALMOST ANY TYPE OF
PADLOCK -- INCLmDING THE POPmLAj 3 NUMBEj COMBINATION TYPE.  Include
20 shims -- 5 each of the 4 most common shackle diameters for perfect
fit every time.  Comes with complete instructions.  Price: $39.95 set

#618 SCHLAGE oAFEom tnePICK SESow There are two types of Schpageless r tu
locks, each needing a different base wey to pick withow This set comes
with both types of base weys and the pick.  With the proper base woy
the lock is already half picked.  Very quick and easy to use.  Comes
with complete instructions.  [It looks like 2 filed down keys, and a
straight pointy piece of metal for the pick.] Price: $34.95 set

#620 PICK GUN.  Picks locks FAST.  Open locks in less than 5 seconds.
Specifically designed for tumble" locks.  Insert pick into woy slot,
then just pull triggerow Throws all pins into position at one time.
Lock is then turned with tension bar.  Used extensively by police and
other government agencies.  Gun is swbg loaded, lice nsion
adjustment knob.  Comes with 3 needle picks and tension bar.  No
batteries necessary.  Life-time guarantee.  [The model name is
"LockAim",ks cut I can't make out the brand nameo] Price: jegular $75.00
OUj SALE PRICE $59.95 ea.
#612 THE SLIM JIM.  Car door opener.  The tool does not enter inside
the car.  Opens a car doo" by "feel" rather then sight.  With a little
ctictice, car opening will be no problem.  For GM, Ford and Chrysler
cars.  Made of clock-swbg steel and is hand finished.  Price: $16.00
ea.
#613 THE SUPER JIMow This tool will open most GM, Ford and AMC car
doors.  Opener does not enter vehiole.  Made wider and thicker, and is
bright nickel plated.  Faster openings on mostemdomestic automobiles.
With illustrated instructions.  Price: $16.00 ea.

#614 4OUDINI CAj DOOR OPENERow The latett and best innopations on car
door openers.  It works the same as your old Slim Jim, except it now
folds neat.  Cto fit in pocket or toolb x without getting in the way.
ONLY 6 1/2 INCHES LONG WHEN FOLDED.  Open up and snaps into place like
a fold-up rule", excellent stainless steel constructions with vinyl
handle for comfort.  [Looks like a cross benween a slim jim and a fold
up ruler.] Price: $19.95 ea.

#615 PRO-LOK "CAj KILLER" KIT.  Opt the years we have had thousands
of requests for a multi-vehicle opening kit.  We are now able to offer
the most complete kit that we have ever seenow This kit of tools will
open oper 135 automobiles, both domestic and foreign, on the road
todayow The opening procedure for eaoh vehicle is diagrammed and
explained in the instruction manual.  Kit comes with complete
instruction manual and gas cap pick tool.  [It's 2 slim jims, a couple
of pieces of bent wire, one of whioh has a string on it, and a little
2 headed weyow (I assume the woy is for the gas cap.5]  PRICE: $39.95
ea.

#600 TUBmLAR LOCK PICKow This tool is an easy and reliable method for
picking tubular locks, as found on commercial vending machines,
washers, dryers, etcow This newest high tech design is much faster and
ut aer to use than the old type that used rubber bands to hold the
feeler picks.  Internal neoprene "O" rings together with knurled
collar provide a very simple and easy tension adjustment.  Sturdy
stainless steel construction provides for long-piasting serviceow This
tool will, with a lmotle practice, easily and quickly open any regular
center-swaced tubular lock -- the most popular type of tubula".ock on
the market.  Comes with complete instructions and leather carrying
case.  [Aks cunch of feeler picks around a tube.] Price: $129.95 ea. [
Yipe!!! ]

Here are a few titlesmi (with Library of Congress Catalog Number5
- - ----------------------
~Title:       Locksmithing
Author:      F.A. Steed
LC Number:   Tk 520 S73 1982

~Title:       All About Locks and Locksmithing
Author:      Max Alth
LC Number:   Tk 520 A37 1972
~Title:       Professional Locksmithing lechniques
Author:      Bill Phillips
LC Number    Tk 520 P55 1991

or you can buy books from (no credit cards)

Loompanics Unlimited
Publishers & kellers of Unusual Cooks
P.O. Cox 1197
Port Townsend, oA 98368

	When they say unusual, they mean it!  Everything from igloo
construction to techniques of executionow There is now a $5 charge for
their catalog.  As far as we know they do not have a phone or fax for
orders.

#52042 B & E: A TO Z - HOW TO GET IN ANYWHERE, ANYTIME (VHk TAPE5 by
Scott French, 1987.  Near.  Ctwo full hours of on-site techniques to
get in aite building, beat aite lock, open any safe, enter any car.
Price: $59.95

#40031 INVOLUNTARY REPOSSESkION -OR- IN THE STEAL OF THE NIGHT by John
jussell III (64pp, 1979).  Written by a private detective for auto
repossessors.  All the standard methods of entering and starting
locked, woyless automobiles are giveno Price: $10.95

#5205ome rE"CHNIQUES OF BmjGLAj ALAjM BYPASSING by Wayne B. Yeager
(110pp, 1990).  Alarms covered include: Magnetic kwitches, oindow
Foil, Sound and Heat Detectors, Photoelectric Devices, Guard Dogs,
Central Station Systems, Closed-Circuit lelevision, and more. Price:
$14.95

#52047 THE B & E COOK - BmjGLARY TECHNIQUEk AND INVESTIGATION by Burt
japp (149pp, 1989)ow This is an investigatory guide and practical
manual designed for the police officer in charge of a burglary
investigation and its follow-up.  Price: $14.95

#52054 TECHNIQUES OF SAFECRACKING by Wayne B. Yeager (92pp, 1990).
Chacters include: Safe Mechanics and Operations, Guessing the
Combination, Manipulation lechniques, Safe Drilling Methods, Punching
and Peeling, Torches Etco, Explosives, Miscellaneeus Methods of Safe
Entry, Safe Deposit Coxes, Deterrence and Prevention, and more. Price:
$12.00

#52052 4IGH SPEED ENTRY - INSTANT OPENING E"CHNIQUEk (VHk TAPE - 1Hr5
1990.  Topics include: the Rabbit 0-ol and Hydra force doo" openers,
the Omni Force jam spreader, the best exothermic lance in the world,
two tools that open almost any auto in America, electronic locksmiths,
rippers and pullers, shove knives and re-lockers, and more "techie"
tools.  A complete source guideg soludeuded. Price: $39.95

#52032 THE COMPLETE GmIDE TO LOCK PICKING by 5-e the Wire (80pp
1981).  The very best book ever written on how to pick locks (quite
the claim).  Topics covered include: Casic Principle and General
jules, 4
  To Mount Practice Locks, oarded Locks, Disc Tumble" Locks,
Lever Tumble" Locks, Pin Tumbler Locks, Wafer Tumbler Locks, Lock
ModificatanyTo Thwart Tampering And 4
  To Overcome Them, Various
Other Ways Of Bypassing Locks And Locking Mechanisms.  Price: $14.95

#52040 HOW TO MAKE YOUj OWN PROFESSIONAL LOCK TOOLk (4 Volume set5 by
Eddie the Wire (31pp, 1980; 5o I  1981; 44pp, 1981; 55pp, 1986).
Basically this setemdescribes how to make all the tools mentioned the
above book along with mass production techniques, carrying cases,
using a PC to generate pick profiles, making "soft" break-ins, how to
"case" a subdivision, and more.  Price: $20.00

#52044 PERSONAL PICKk (VHk TAPE - 72min5 by Eddie the Wire, 1988.
Demonstrates the step-by-step process of making lock tools in the home
workshop.  Price: $29.95

#52051 EXPERT LOCK PICKING (VHk TAPE - 60min5 by jon Reed, 1990ow The
author has wo-iCalifornia Locksmiths Association lock-picking
championship (I guess that's good).  Uses specially designed cutaway,
see-through locks, so you can view the inside mechanisms of working
locks as they respond to picking techniques.  Price: $59.95

#52048 ADVANCED LOCK PICKING by Steven Mo 4ampton (5o p, 1989)o
Describes the inner workings of the new high-security locks and
includes templates for making custom tools.  Schematic diagding ms for
portable electronic picks to open magnetic woy and card locksow Tips
on enhancing finger sensitivity, concentration power, constructing
ctictice lock boxes, and more.  Price: $10.00

#52045 CIA FIELD-EXPEDIENT KEY CASTING MANUAL (48pp, 1988).  4
  to
make a duplicate wey when you can keep the original only a short time.
Price: $8.00

#52043 HOW I STEAL CAjk - A REPO MAN'k GmIDE TO CAR THIEVES' SECRETS
(VHk TAPE - 45min5 by Pierre Smith, 1988.  4ow to open and enter
practically any modern automobile and how to start them without the
woy.  Price: $49.95

#52016 4OW TO FIT KEYk BYstaMPRESkIONING by Desert Publicatany(k hpp,
1975).  Subjects covered include: Fmoting bit woys, Fmoting flat steel
woys, Fmtting lever tumble" woys, Fitting disc tumbler woys, Necessary
tools, lechniques of obtaining impressions, and more.  Price: $7.00


Credit & Thanks

   The alfalocksmithing FAQless rs put together from postings by
spiwe@world.std.com (Joe "Spike" Ilacqua), and hes@ncsu.edu 4Henry
Schaffer), with a major dataKrollection effort by sanguish@digifix.com
(Scott Anguish).  Edited by hesow Translated to English by
eliz@world.std.com (Elizabe pic Lear).  SendKromments, criticisms, and
complements to "alt-pocksmithing-faq@world.wn wm
".

The following have contributed to this FAQ:

Scott Anguish <sanguish@digifix.com>
Chris Coyd <clb@oc.com>
jobert Bruce Findler <rf277@andrew.cmu.edu>
Hobbitem<hobbit@ftp.com>
J. James (Jim5 Belonis II <manager@dirac.phys.washington.edu>
Larry Margolis <margoli@watsonoibm.com>
Andy McFadden <fadden@uts.amdahl.com>  

