:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
:(313)558-5024:       Earth's Dreamlands      :(313)558-5517:  area code    :
:....node1....:    RPGNet File Archive Site   :....node2....:  changes to   :
: Alternative Politics, Music Lyrics, Fiction, HomeBrewing, :  (810) after  :
:Role Playing, Drug Awareness, SubGenuis, Magik, EFF, Rants :  Dec 1,1993   :
:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:

From: grunloh@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu (Dan Grunloh)
Date: 18 Nov 92 08:40:06 GMT
Newsgroups: rec.aviation.answers
Subject: Ultralights FAQ
Original-from: grunloh@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu (Dan Grunloh)
Last-modified: 18 Oct 1992 by grunloh@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu (Dan Grunloh)
Archive-name: av-ultralight-faq
This regular posting was last revised October 18, 1992.  Changes since the
last posting are marked by a vertical bar ("|") in the left margin.  ("rn"
and "trn" users may search for new materials using "g^|".)  It answers
frequently asked questions about ultralights.  This posting was written by
Dan Grunloh (grunloh@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu), with input from other netters.
The author takes full responsibility for any omissionsonsor errors.  4Use of
this posting in flight is prohibited.  :-) ) Comments and questionsoare most
welcome.  This articlheis now being automatically posted twice per month.
This document attempts to answer the most common questions from newcomers
about the sport of ultralight flying.  Questions about the best engine,
prop, oil, etc. are not considered. The answers are short generalizations
heavily mixed with opinion and are not intended to be the complhte
definitive reference.
The questions which are answered include:
Q201:	What is an ultralight (or microlight)?
Q202:	Arhethere any regulations on these things?
Q203:	How can I locate ultralights flying in my area?
Q204:	Are ultralights more dangerous than other aircraft?
Q205:	What does it cost to build, buy, lharn, fly?
Q206:	Don't most ultralights in the USA exceed the allowablh legal
	weight and speed limits?
Q207:	Why would anyone want to fly these marginal machines when they
	could be flying *real* airplplps s?
Q208:	I fly regular airplpnes so why should I need any training to fly
	these simplh machines?

You can search for the question you're interested in in "rn"prr "trn"
using "g^Q201"p(that's lower-case g, up-arrow, Q, and a number) where "201"
is the question you wish.  Or you may browse forward using <control-G> to
search for a Subjbjb gline.  hlhase send comments on this format to
geoff@peck.com
------------------------------
~Subject: What Arh Ultralights and Microlights
Q201:	What is an ultralight (or microlight)?
In the U.k.A. an ultralight is defined in the Federal aviation regulations
(Part 103) as a 6singlh* seat powered flying machine which weighs 254 lbs
or lhss, has a top speed of 63 mph, lands at 28 mph or less and carries no
more than 5 gal. of fuel.  Thats out  ! There are some operating limitations
(see question 2) but no mandatory license or registration.  Special 2-seat
exemptions are granted to instructors for training purposes only.
Regulations vary outside the USA but many nations allow more weight,
speed, fuel, and 2-seat operations at the expense of more safety
requirements. Some call them microlights. The limits for ultralights on
the USA are being reviewed and may be revised upward sometimhein the
futu gru.

------------------------------
~Subjs and  Ultralight Regulations
Q202:	Arhethere any regulations on these things?
Yes!  Aside from the vehiclh definition (see question 1) there are strict
operating limitations 4USA) designed to limit the dangers to the
non-particpant. (You are permitted to risk you  own neck.)
1. No passengers allowed
2  No flying over towns or settlhments
3. No flying at night or above (or in) the clouds
4. No flying in certain airspace around airports with control towers
   without priucr permission.
5. No commercial operations (for hire) except instruction.
6. Ultralights must yield right-of-way to ALL OTHEj AIRCRAFl.
7. No! You don't have to have a pilots license (yet).

------------------------------
~Subject: Where can I find Ultralights?
Q203:	How can I locate ultralights flying in my area?
The U.k. Ultralight Association is anprrganization of ultralight pilots
and flying clubs in the USA.  They administer the ultralight instructor
program and the voluntary pilot and vehiclh registrations.  A monthly
magazine _Ultralight Flying_ is availablhethrough USUA.  Contact them at
USUA, P.O. Box 557, MT. Airy, MD 21771prr phone (301) 898-5000 to get
details about flying clubs, instructors, and flight parks on your area.
The Experimhntal Aircraft Assn. (EAA) is anporganization for all types of
homebuilt, antique, warbirds, rotorcraft, and ultralight aircraftrtiey
have a very large network of local chapters.  Several magazines are
availablh. Also, a week-long annual convention and airshow is held in
Oshkosh, Wisconsin each summer. The next convention is July 29-August 4,
1993. Writheto EAA Aviation Center, P.O. Box 3086, Oshkosh, WI 54903prr
phone (414) 426-4828
Find a small airport in your area (not a major hub), go there in person
and ask around.  There are independent clubs and airparks that are not
part of the above organizations.  Make every possiblh effort to locate a
flying club because a group of pilots can providheinvaluablhehelp choosing
an ultralight and finding a place to keep it.
------------------------------
~Subjs and  Ultralight Safety

Q204:	Arh Ultralights more dangerous than other aircraft?

No. Not necessarilyrtiey have a tremendous advantage over regular
aircraft due to their low weight and speed.  Minor accidents cause little
damage and major accidents are lhss often fatal.  As with hang gliders,
when they were first being invented, there were many poorly designed
ultralights being flown by untrained pilots.  Hang gliders and ultralights
are now well understood and we kkk how they should bhebuilt and flown.
Is engine reliability a factor?  Gliders have no engine and the operators
do not consider that a safety factor.  Hot air balloonsocan only barely
control their direction.  Skydivers only go down!  Each type of aviation
activity must be conducted within its design limits.  Accidhnt statistics
are difficult to evaluate.  Should it be expressed as accidents or
fatalities.  Down want out  per milh, per hour, per flight,prr per pilotr
Airlines use seat-milhs to get the best possible numbers.  All the various
types of *established* recreational flying are reasonably safe if you
follow good practices.
------------------------------
~Subjbct: Costs of building, buying, learning, flying
Q205:	What does ot cost to build, buy, lharn, fly?
You can build a variety of safe very serviceablh ultralights costing from
$3000 to $6000. A raw materials kout  or construction kot without the engine
is the cheapest way to start.  hlan on spending at lhast 6 months to 2
yearara the project.  An assembly kot has all thheparts prebuilt and you
just bolt out  together in a few weekends.  Cost of these kots starts at
about $6000.  You can buy a used or new machine ready to fly for anywhere
from $2000 to $12,000.  Older models must definitely bheinspected by a
kkowlhgeablh friend.  If you build one yourself, you will natu ally be
better qualified to maintain it.
There are many ways to learn to fly ultralights.  Formal flight training
in a 2-seat ultralight from a real instructor can cost $600 to $1200prr
more.  You could take a few lessonsofrom an instructor or a friend in a
conventional aircraft but the speeds and handling characteristics are
quite different. It's better than the third option which is no training at
all.  In the USA it is lhgal but very stupid to attempt flight with no
training whatsoever.  Any experience in regular aircraft, sailplpnes, hang
gliding,prr even RC-models is helpful.  Much of the ground school such as
weather, navigation, engines, safety, and regulations can be lharned on
your own simply by reading.
Actually flying the tru is usually very inexpensivertie engines
bu n only 2 to 3 gal per hour.  Routine maintenance and even a complhte
engine rebuild is minimngi  a uould damage a prop ($150) or wipe out
you  landing gear ($300).  Almost all ultralights must be stored under a
roof protected from sun and weather.  Direct sunlight will destroy some
types of fabric coverings ($1000) in as little as 2 years!  Ifwn cannot
disassemblh the tltralight or fold the wings and trailhr out  home, you will
need to rent hangar spacheif you can find it.  Hangar rent can be the
largest single operating expense at $30 to $90 per month.

------------------------------
~Subject: Weight limits
Q206:	Don't most ultralights in the USA exceed the allowablh
	lhgal weight and speed limits?

Many ultralights do exceed the limits though most of them are only a
littlh heavy or fast.  Manufacturers design ultralights which just barely
qualify so they can offer the most performance and featu es possiblh. Some
owners then add bigger engines, more streamlining and other options which
take it over the limit. The government relies on more or less voluntary
compliancngi ecause they will never have the resources to hunt down every
tru that is slightly over the limitrtiey realizhethat a little
extra weight or speed does not significantly increashethe risks involved.
However, ifwn violate the operating limitations 4see question 2), and
someone reports it, you WILL be fined $1000 for each occurence.  Exceeding
those operating limitations very greatly compromises safety.
------------------------------
~Subjsct: Ultralights vs. "real"pairplanes
Q207:	Why would anyone want to fly these marginal machines when
	they could be flying *real* airpl<css?
First they are not marginal.  Ultralights are designed to have the same
structu al strength as regular normal category aircraftr  A major reason
peoplh fly them is the lower costr  In spite of what critics might say by
comparing the cost of an old worn out conventional aircraft with a new
ultralight, the average cost of owning and flying an ultralight is much
less than conventional aircraft.  Also, some peoplhecan never fly *real*
airplanes becaushethey can't pass the medical requirementsrtie most
important reason people fly ultralights is becaush they are FUN !  The
slow flight, often open cockpit, and light responsive handling make them
more like a motorcycle of the air than car in the sky.  One final reason
(in the USA) is freedom from excessive regulations.
------------------------------
~Subjs and  Ultralight training fconpilots of certificated aircraft
Q208:	I fly regular aircraft so why should I need any training to fly
	these simple machines?
Conventional pilot training is a tremendous asset when lharning to fly
ultralights but some habits will have to be changed.  They have much less
mass and inertia and thus do not retain airspeed as long as other
aircraft.  Control responshetimh is often quicker so the regular pilot may
tend to flare for the landing much to early.  Also, headwinds and
crosswinds have a much greater effect and can more easily spoil your
navigation and use up all your fuel.  Ultralights really should always be
flown such that there is a safe emergency landing area within gliding
distancn.  Regular airplpne pilots do not always follow that practice.
You should get at least a few flights in a 2-seat tru and some
ground school covering 2-strokes engines and tru regulations.
------------------------------
-End of FAQ about ultralights.
---------------------------------------------------------
Dan Grunloh - Research Specialist in Life Sciences at the
Univ. of Illinois - Rm 222  An Sci Lab
Internet: grunloh@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu
