Last-modified: 1994/3/21
Version: 1.4


--------------< FAQ: Codes and Creeds of Scientology >----------------

The following Codes and Creeds of the Church of Scientology, were
taken from the book _What is Scientology?_ (Church of Scientology
International, 1992) along with the introductory paragraphs before
each code and creed.

[Grateful acknowledgement is made to the L. Ron Hubbard Library for
 permission to reproduce selections from the copyrighted works of
 L. Ron Hubbard.]

This file contains:

    The Creed of the Church of Scientology
    The Auditor's Code
    The Code of Honor
    The Code of a Scientologist
    The Supervisor's Code
    The Credo of a True Group Member
    The Credo of a Good and Skilled Manager

 
======================================================================
                
                The Creed of the Church of Scientology

The Creed of the Church of Scientology was written by L. Ron Hubbard 
shortly after the Church was formed in Los Angeles on February 18, 1954.
After he issued this creed from his office in Phoenix, Arizona, the 
Church of Scientology adopted it as official because it succinctly 
states what Scientologists believe.

-----

We of the Church believe:

    That all men of whatever race, color or creed were created with
    equal rights;

    That all men have inalienable rights to their own religious
    practices and their performance;

    That all men have inalienable rights to their own lives;

    That all men have inalienable rights to their sanity;

    That all men have inalienable rights to their own defense;

    That all men have inalienable rights to conceive, choose, assist
    or support their own organizations, churches and governments;

    That all men have inalienable rights to think freely, to talk
    freely, to write freely their own opinions and to counter or utter
    or write upon the opinions of others;

    That all men have inalienable rights to the creation of their own
    kind;

    That the souls of men have the rights of men;

    That the study of the mind and the healing of mentally caused ills
    should not be alienated from religion or condoned in non-religious
    fields;

    And that no agency less than God has the power to suspend or set
    aside these rights, overtly or covertly.

And we of the Church believe:

    That man is basically good;

    That he is seeking to survive;

    That his survival depends upon himself and upon his fellows and
    his attainment of brotherhood with the universe.

And we of the Church believe that the laws of God forbid man:

    To destroy his own kind;

    To destroy the sanity of another;

    To destroy or enslave another's soul;

    To destroy or reduce the survival of one's companions or one's
    group.

And we of the Church believe that the spirit can be saved and that the
spirit alone may save or heal the body.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          The Auditor's Code

This code first appeared as a chapter in the book _Dianetics: The Original
Thesis_ (later retitled _The Dynamics of Life_) written by L. Ron Hubbard
in 1947 and eventually published in 1951.

The ensuing years saw a great deal of auditing done by auditors other than
Mr. Hubbard and from these experiences he was able to refine the Code and
thus improve the discipline of auditing.

The Auditor's Code was revised in 1954, appearing in Professional 
Auditor's Bulletins 38 and 39.

Over the next four years, several additions were made to the 1954 Code, 
one of which appeared in the book _Dianetics 55!_. Another was released 
in Hubbard Communications Office Bulletin of 1 July 1957, ADDITIONS TO 
THE AUDITOR'S CODE, and two more items were added when the Auditor's 
Code of 1958 was published.

The Auditor's Code 1968, released in October of that year, was issued
as a Hubbard Communications Office Policy Letter.  It was released in 
celebration of the 100 percent gains attainable by standard tech.

Hubbard Communciations Office Policy Letter 2 November 1968, AUDITOR'S
CODE, added three more clauses to the Code.

The final version of the Code was published by Mr. Hubbard on 19 June 1980.

The Auditor's Code is a fundamental tool of not only auditing but of life.
As L. Ron Hubbard  wrote in _Dianetics_, "The Auditor's Code outlines the
*survival conduct pattern* of man.  The Clear operates more or less 
automatically on this code."  Because the basic axioms of Dianetics and
Scientology comprise the fundamentals of thought itself, what works in 
auditing also works in life.

-----

     I hereby promise as an auditor to follow the Auditor's Code.

1.   I promise not to evaluate for the preclear or tell him what he
     should think about his case in session.

2.   I promise not to invalidate the preclear's case or gains in or
     out of session.

3.   I promise to administer only standard tech to a preclear in the
     standard way.

4.   I promise to keep all auditing appointments once made.

5.   I promise not to process a preclear who has not had sufficient
     rest and who is physically tired.

6.   I promise not to process a preclear who is improperly fed or
     hungry.

7.   I promise not to permit a frequent change of auditors.

8.   I promise not to sympathize with a preclear but to be effective.

9.   I promise not to let the preclear end session on his own
     determinism but to finish off those cycles I have begun.

10.  I promise never to walk off from a preclear in session.

11.  I promise never to get angry with a preclear in session.

12.  I promise to run every major case action to a floating needle.

13.  I promise never to run any one action beyond its floating needle.

14.  I promise to grant beingness to the preclear in session.

15.  I promise not to mix the processes of Scientology with other
     practices except when the preclear is physically ill and only
     medical means will serve.

16.  I promise to maintain communication with the preclear and not to
     cut his communication or permit him to overrun in session.

17.  I promise not to enter comments, expressions or enturbulence into
     a session that distract a preclear from his case.

18.  I promise to continue to give the preclear the process or
     auditing command when needed in the session.

19.  I promise not to let a preclear run a wrongly understood command.

20.  I promise not to explain, justify or make excuses in session for
     any auditor mistakes whether real or imagined.

21.  I promise to estimate the current case state of a preclear only
     by standard case supervision data and not to diverge because of
     some imagined difference in the case.

22.  I promise never to use the secrets of a preclear divulged in
     session for punishment or personal gain.

23.  I promise to never falsify worksheets of sessions.

24.  I promise to see that any fee received for processing is refunded,
     following the policies of the Claims Verification Board, if the
     preclear is dissatisfied and demands it within three months after
     the processing, the only condition being that he may not again be
     processed or trained.

25.  I promise not to advocate Dianetics or Scientology only to cure
     illness or only to treat the insane, knowing well they were
     intended for spiritual gain.

26.  I promise to cooperate fully with the authorized organizations of
     Dianetics and Scientology in safeguarding the ethical use and
     practice of those subjects.

27.  I promise to refuse to permit any being to be physically injured,
     violently damaged, operated on or killed in the name of "mental
     treatment."

28.  I promise not to permit sexual liberties or violations of
     patients.

29.  I promise to refuse to admit to the ranks of practitioners any
     being who is insane.


----------------------------------------------------------------------

                          The Code of Honor

The Code of Honor first appeared in Professional Auditor's Bulletin 40
on 26 November 1954.  As Mr. Hubbard himself explained:

-----

    "No one expects the Code of Honor to be closely and tightly
    followed.

    "An ethical code cannot be enforced.  Any effort to enforce the
    Code of Honor would bring it to the level of a moral code.  It cannot
    be enforced simply because it is a way of life only as long as it is
    not enforced.  Any other use but self-determined use of the Code of
    Honor would, as any Scientologist could quickly see, produce a
    considerable deterioration in a person.  Therefore its use is a luxury
    use, and which is done solely on self-determined action, providing one
    sees eye to eye with the Code of Honor.

    "If you believed man was worthy enough to be granted by you
    sufficient stature so as to permit you to exercise gladly the Code of
    Honor, I can guarantee that you would be a happy person.  And if you
    found an occasional miscreant falling away from the best standards you
    have developed, you yet did not turn away from the rest of man, and if
    you discovered yourself betrayed by those you were seeking to defend
    and yet did not then experience a complete reversal of opinion about
    all your fellow men, there would be no dwindling spiral for you."

    "The only difference between paradise on Earth and hell on Earth is
    whether or not you believe your fellow man worthy of receiving from 
    you the friendship and devotion called for in this Code of Honor."

    1.   Never desert a comrade in need, in danger or in trouble.

    2.   Never withdraw allegiance once granted.

    3.   Never desert a group to which you owe your support.

    4.   Never disparage yourself or minimize your strength or power.

    5.   Never need praise, approval or sympathy.

    6.   Never compromise with your own reality.

    7.   Never permit your affinity to be alloyed.

    8.   Do not give or receive communication unless you yourself
         desire it.

    9.   Your self-determinism and your honor are more important than
         your immediate life.

    10.  Your integrity to yourself is more important than your body.

    11.  Never regret yesterday.  Life is in you today, and you make
         your tomorrow.

    12.  Never fear to hurt another in a just cause.

    13.  Don't desire to be liked or admired.

    14.  Be your own adviser, keep your own counsel and select your
         own decisions.
    
    15.  Be true to your own goals.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   The Code of a Scientologist

The Code of a Scientologist was first issued as Professional Auditor's 
Bulletin 41 in 1954.  In it, L. Ron Hubbard  provides a Scientologist
with guidelines in dealing with the press and in fighting for human 
rights and justice through social reform.  It is a vital code for any 
Scientologist active in the community.  The code was reissued in 1956
in the book _Creation of Human Ability_.  Revised in 1969 and again in
1973, the code is given here in its final version.

-----

As a Scientologist, I pledge myself to the Code of Scientology for the good
of all:

1.   To keep Scientologists, the public and the press accurately informed
     concerning Scientology, the world of mental health and society.

2.   To use the best I know of Scientology to the best of my ability to
     help my family, friends, groups and the world.

3.   To refuse to accept for processing and to refuse to accept money
     from any preclear or group I feel I cannot honestly help.

4.   To decry and do all I can to abolish any and all abuses against
     life and Mankind.

5.   To expose and help abolish any and all physically damaging practices
     in the field of mental health.

6.   To help clean up and keep clean the field of mental health.

7.   To bring about an atmosphere of safety and security in the field
     of mental health by eradicating its abuses and brutality. 

8.   To support true humanitarian endeavors in the fields of human rights.

9.   To embrace the policy of equal justice for all.

10.  To work for freedom of speech in the world.

11.  To actively decry the suppression of knowledge, wisdom,
     philosophy or data which would help Mankind.

12.  To support the freedom of religion.

13.  To help Scientology orgs and groups ally themselves with public
     groups.

14.  To teach Scientology at a level it can be understood and used by the
     recipients.

15.  To stress the freedom to use Scientology as a philosophy in all
     its applications and variations in the humanities.

16.  To insist upon standard and unvaried Scientology as an applied
     activity in ethics, processing and administration in Scientology
     organizations.

17.  To take my share of responsibility for the impact of Scientology
     upon the world.

18.  To increase the numbers and strength of Scientology over the
     world.

19.  To set an example of the effectiveness and wisdom of Scientology.

20.  To make this world a saner, better place.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

                        The Supervisor's Code

Just as auditors must follow a code of conduct, so too does the 
Supervisor in a Scientology course room.  Unlike teachers in many 
traditional classrooms, Course Supervisors do not set themselves up
as "authorities" who tell their students what to think, or espouse
their opinions on the subject.  Instead, students are guided to find
the answers for themselves in Dianetics and Scientology materials.

In the following code, Mr. Hubbard sets forth the key guidelines that
ensure instruction in a Scientology course room is standard and 
professional, with maximum benefit to the students.  This code is  
followed by Supervisors in churches of Scientology throughout the 
world, guaranteeing a high level of training in the technology.  It was 
first published in 1957.

-----

1.   The Supervisor must never neglect an opportunity to direct a
     student to the actual source of Scientology data.

2.   The Supervisor should invalidate a student's mistakes ruthlessly
     and use good ARC [understanding] while doing it.

3.   The Supervisor should remain in good ARC with his students at all
     times while they are performing training activities.

4.   The Supervisor at all times must have a high tolerance of
     stupidity in his students and must be willing to repeat any datum
     not understood as many times as necessary for the student to
     understand and acquire reality on the datum.

5.   The Supervisor does not have a "case" in his relationship with
     his students, nor discuss or talk about his personal problems
     to the students.

6.   The Supervisor will, at all times, be a source-point of good
     control and direction to his students.

7.   The Supervisor will be able to correlate any part of Scientology
     to any other part and to livingness over the eight dynamics.

8.   The Supervisor should be able to answer any questions concerning
     Scientology by directing the student to the actual source of the
     data.  If a Supervisor cannot answer a particular question, he
     should always say so, and the Supervisor should always find the
     answer to the question from the source and tell the student where
     the answer is to be found.

9.   The Supervisor should never lie to, deceive or misdirect a
     student concerning Scientology.  He shall be honest at all times
     about it with a student.

10.  The Supervisor must be an accomplished auditor.

11.  The Supervisor should always set a good example to his students:
     such as giving good demonstrations, being on time and dressing
     neatly.

12.  The Supervisor should at all times be perfectly willing and able
     to do anything he tells his students to do.

13.  The Supervisor must not become emotionally involved with students
     of either sex while they are under his or her training.

14.  When a Supervisor makes any mistake, he is to inform the student
     that he has made one and rectify it immediately.  This datum
     embraces all phases in training, demonstrations, lectures and
     processing, etc.  He is never to hide the fact that he made a
     mistake.

15.  The Supervisor should never neglect to give praise to his
     students when due.

16.  The Supervisor to some degree should be pan-determined about the
     Supervisor-student relationship.

17.  When a Supervisor lets a student control, give orders to or
     handle the Supervisor in any way, for the purpose of demonstration
     or other training purposes, the Supervisor should always put the
     student back under his control.

18.  The Supervisor will at all times observe the Auditor's Code during
     sessions and the Code of a Scientologist at all times.

19.  The Supervisor will never give a student opinions about
     Scientology without labeling them thoroughly as such;
     otherwise, he is to direct only to tested and proven data
     concerning Scientology.

20.  The Supervisor shall never use a student for his own personal
     gain.

21.  The Supervisor will be a stable terminal, point the way to stable
     data, be certain, but not dogmatic or dictatorial, toward his
     students.

22.  The Supervisor will keep himself at all times informed of the
     most recent Scientology data and procedures and communicate this
     information to his students.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------


                   The Credo of a True Group Member

In our bureaucratic age, members of a group are often left feeling hopeless
and ineffective in the face of seemingly insurmountable difficulties.    
Some even come to feel they might be better off without allegiance to any
group.  But inevitably no one can survive alone, and denying oneself
membership in a group is denying oneself that certain pride and satisfaction
which can only come through teamwork.

In his research into the technology of groups, L. Ron Hubbard codified the
principles which members of any group should follow to attain its goals.  
These are offered in the following code, written in January 1951.

With these guidelines, a person can greatly increase his contribution
to a group, while at the same time maintaining his own self-determinism.

-----

1.   The successful participant of a group is that participant who
     closely approximates in his own activities the ideal, ethic and
     rationale of the overall group.

2.   The responsibility of the individual for the group as a whole
     should not be less than the responsibility of the group for the
     individual.

3.   The group member has, as part of his responsibility, the smooth
     operation of the entire group.

4.   A group member must exert and insist upon his rights and
     prerogatives as a group member and insist upon the rights and
     prerogatives of the group as a group and not let these rights be
     diminished in any way or degree for any excuse or claimed
     expeditiousness.

5.   The member of a true group must exert and practice his right to
     contribute to the group.  And he must insist upon the right of
     the group to contribute to him.  He should recognize that a
     myriad of group failures will result when either of these
     contributions is denied as a right.  (A welfare state being that
     state in which the member is not permitted to contribute to the
     state but must take contribution from the state.)

6.   Enturbulence of the affairs of the group by sudden shifts of
     plans unjustified by circumstances, breakdown of recognized
     channels or cessation of useful operations in a group must be
     refused and blocked by the member of a group.  He should take
     care not to enturbulate a manager and thus lower ARC [under-
     standing].

7.   Failure in planning or failure to recognize goals must be
     corrected by the group member for the group by calling the matter
     to conference or acting upon his own initiative.

8.   A group member must coordinate his initiative with the goals and
     rationale of the entire group and with other individual members,
     well publishing his activities and intentions so that all
     conflicts may be brought forth in advance.

9.   A group member must insist upon his right to have initiative.

10.  A group member must study and understand and work with the goals,
     rationale and executions of the group.

11.  A group member must work toward becoming as expert as possible in
     his specialized technology and skill in the group and must assist
     other individuals of the group to an understanding of that
     technology and skill in its place in the organizational
     necessities of the group.

12.  A group member should have a working knowledge of all
     technologies and skills in the group in order to understand them
     and their place in the organizational necessities of the group.

13.  On the group member depends the height of the ARC [understanding]
     of the group. He must insist upon high-level communication lines
     and clarity in affinity and reality and know the consequence of 
     not having such conditions.  *And he must work continually and 
     actively to maintain high ARC in the organization.*

14.  A group member has the right of pride in his tasks and a right of
     judgement and handling in those tasks.

15.  A group member must recognize that he is himself a manager of
     some section of the group and/or its tasks and that he himself
     must have both the knowledge and right of management in that
     sphere for which he is responsible.

16.  The group member should not permit laws to be passed which limit
     or proscribe the activities of all the members of the group
     because of the failure of some of the members of the group.

17.  The group member should insist on flexible planning and
     unerring execution of plans.

18.  The performance of duty at optimum by every member of the group
     should be understood by the group member to be the best safeguard
     of his own and the group survival.  It is the pertinent business
     of any member of the group that optimum performance be achieved
     by any other member of the group whether chain of command or
     similarity of activity sphere warrants such supervision or not.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------

               The Credo of a Good and Skilled Manager

Leadership is considered a rare commodity, a gift possessed by a few
uncommon individuals.  And after a few years in a high executive 
position, whether in the private or the public sector, many individuals
wonder whether this gift is in fact illusory.

In his management technology, L. Ron Hubbard developed a large body 
of guidelines that enable executives and managers not only to apply 
their powers with intelligence but to exercise sane leadership that
will enable their groups to flourish and prosper.  Following this code
can greatly increase one's success as a manager in any group, from a 
business to a commonwealth of nations.  This code was also written
by L. Ron Hubbard in 1951.

-----

     To be effective and successful a manager must:

1.   Understand as fully as possible the goals and aims of the group
     he manages.  He must be able to see and embrace the *ideal*
     attainment of the goal as envisioned by a goal maker.  He must be
     able to tolerate and better the *practical* attainments and
     advances of which his group and its members may be capable.  He
     must strive to narrow, always, the ever-existing gulf between the
     *ideal* and the *practical*.

2.   He must realize that a primary mission is the full and honest
     interpretation by himself of the ideal and ethic and their goals
     and aims to his subordinates and the group itself.  He must lead
     creatively and persuasively toward these goals his subordinates,
     the group itself and the individuals of the group.

3.   He must embrace the organization and act solely for the entire
     organization and never form or favor cliques.  His judgement of
     individuals of the group should be solely in the light of their
     worth to the entire group.

4.   He must never falter in sacrificing individuals to the good of
     the group both in planning and execution and in his justice.

5.   He must protect all established communication lines and
     complement them where necessary.

6.   He must protect all affinity in his charge and have himself
     affinity for the group itself.

7.   He must attain always to the highest creative reality.

8.   His planning must accomplish, in the light of goals and aims, the
     activity of the entire group.  He must never let organizations
     grow and sprawl but, learning by pilots, must keep organizational
     planning fresh and flexible.

9.   He must recognize in himself the rationale of the group and
     receive and evaluate the data out of which he makes his
     solutions with the highest attention to the truth of that data.

10.  He must constitute himself on the orders of service to the group.

11.  He must permit himself to be served well as to his individual
     requirements, practicing an economy of his own efforts and
     enjoying certain comforts to the wealth of keeping high his
     rationale.

12.  He should require his subordinates that they relay into their own
     spheres of management the whole and entire of his true feelings
     and the reasons for his decisions as clearly as they can be
     relayed and expanded and interpreted only for the greater
     understanding of the individuals governed by those subordinates.

13.  He must never permit himself to pervert or mask any portion of
     the ideal and ethic on which the group operates nor must he
     permit the ideal and ethic to grow old and outmoded and
     unworkable.  He must never permit his planning to be perverted or
     censored by subordinates.  He must never permit the ideal and
     ethic of the group's individual members to deteriorate, using
     always reason to interrupt such a deterioration.

14.  He must have faith in the goals, faith in himself and faith in
     the group.

15.  He must lead by demonstrating always creative and constructive
     subgoals.  He must not drive by threat and fear.

16.  He must realize that every individual in the group is engaged in
     some degree in the managing of other men, life and MEST and that
     a liberty of management within this code should be allowed to
     every such submanager.

     Thus conducting himself, a manager can win empire for his group,
     whatever that empire may be.

========================================================================

As mentioned earlier, grateful acknowledgement is made to the L. Ron 
Hubbard Library for permission to reproduce selections from the copy-
righted works of L. Ron Hubbard.

"Dianetics," "Hubbard," and "Scientology," are trademarks and service
marks owned by the Religious Technology Center and are used with its 
permission. "Scientologist" is a collective membership mark designating 
members of the affiliated churches and missions of Scientology.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

