From: jbmorris@mango.ucs.indiana.edu (Jeff Morris)
Date: 4 Oct 93 08:46:43 GMT
Newsgroups: rec.music.dementia
Subject: FAQ: rec.music.dementia FAQ

* = new info since last posting

Hello, and welcome to rec.music.dementia!

What is "dementia", other than a mental disorder, you may ask.

The group is so named after "The Dr. Demento Show", a weekly radio program
hosted by Barry Hansen, a/k/a Dr. Demento.  It is described by him as:
"Mad music and crazy comedy from out of the archives and off the wall.
 Rare records and outrageous tapes from yesterday, today, and tomorrow."

The show has been around for over 20 years, and got its name when Barry
was playing "Transfusion" by Nervous Norvus on the radio one day, and
someone said, "You've gotta be demented to play that!"

Where can I hear "The Dr. Demento Show" in my area?
Well, our own Scooby (ras@copper.denver.colorado.edu) faithfully keeps track
of what stations broadcast the good Dr.'s show, and posts a list to this
group regularly.  The latest list can also be obtained by mailing the
auto-reply FAQ server.  More on this later.

What can I do if the show isn't heard in my area?
The Dr. sez:
If the Doctor Demento Show can no longer be heard in your area you can try to
get it back on the air by writing to the Program Director of your favorite
radio station.
Most stations pay close attention to feedback from their listeners, so your
telling them that you'd like to hear the Dr. Demento Show on their station is
the best thing you can do, short of sending rubber chickens.

What sort of radio station is the Dr. most likely to be heard on?
I don't think there's an answer to this.  I've heard of him being on all
kinds, from hard rock to Top 40 to oldies.  The music that the Dr. plays
fits all formats and no formats at the same time.  Try any radio station
that you think is open-minded enough. :)

Where can I write to Dr. Demento?
The Demento Society
P.O. Box 884
Culver City, CA  90232
USA

How can I join The Demento Society?
Send a check or money order for $14.95 (U.S. dollars) to the above address.
You will receive a membership kit which includes, among other things,
a membership card, a bio and photos of the Dr., a Stay Demented! button,
a demented bumper sticker, a four-year subscription to the annual Demento
Society News (usually comes out around December), and a CD or cassette
(please specify) of 26 tracks unavailable in stores.
[Please note that I am not in any way affiliated with The Demento Society,
 but am providing this information as a public service.]

Where else can I get demented music from?
Check out the comedy section in your local record store.  If there isn't
one, you may have to hunt around for particular artists.  "Weird Al"
Yankovic can sometimes be located in the rock/pop section.  Dr. Demento's
albums are often in the compilations section.  Some stand-up comedy may
be in the spoken word section.
You may even find some demented music in the oldies sections and the childrens
sections.  It's everywhere!  Just take a look.
*Many songs heard on the Dr.'s show aren't available in stores, but can be
*obtained from the artists themselves.  Since June, 1993, a list of addresses
*given on the show is being maintained by annie@redrock.nevada.edu.  This list
*is available from the FAQ mail server - more info later.
*Anyone who's had their material played on the program and wishes to advertise
*qualifies for inclusion in this list.  Send address and pertinent info to
*Annie.

How can I submit my own songs to The Dr. Demento Show?
The Dr. sez:
I'm always happy to listen to tapes for possible airplay on the Dr. Demento
Show.  Reel-to-reel (7 1/2 ips preferred) or cassette tapes are acceptable
(as are discs).  Since all material is carefully auditioned, please allow
six weeks for response.  If your tape is selected for airplay, you will be
notified in advance, and asked for written permission.  I'll look forward
to hearing from you.
P.S.  You don't have to get permission to use other people's tunes, or names
of products, before sending me a tape.  Names of products can sometimes cause
us problems on the show (especially if you say things about them that are
nasty) and you DO need permission before making a RECORD of someone else's
tune with your words (as opposed to a tape).
The address for submitting is the same as that for the society:
Dr. Demento
P.O. Box 884
Culver City, CA  90232
USA

What is appropriate to be discussed in r.m.d?  Can I post lyrics or
request songs or talk about a new album?
Sure.  Anything related to comedy and/or novelty music, records, performances,
personalities, etc. is fine to post about.

Is there an ftp site to retrieve things such as lyrics, discographies,
playlists, etc.?
*These files will soon be available for ftp from cs.uwp.edu
*In the meantime, there is a mail server.
The auto-server address is jbmorris@kiwi.ucs.indiana.edu
You can send mail to there with certain subject lines, and a reply will
be sent back to you automatically, normally within a minute.
The list of subject lines will be posted separately following this
message, or can be obtained by mailing the server with a subject line
of LIST.

Do you accept contributions and/or corrections to the things available
from the mail server?
Most definitely!  If you have something you want considered for addition
to the site, please send it to the same address.  (Just be sure not to use
one of the auto-reply keywords as your subject!  Also be sure you do have a
subject line, or else your letter won't get through to me.)
Also, if you notice a problem with any of the files you receive from the
server, such as wrong or unclear information, misspellings, and the like,
please also write me and tell me to fix it.


Stay Demented!
- Jeff

From: jbmorris@mango.ucs.indiana.edu (Jeff Morris)
Date: 4 Oct 93 08:47:47 GMT
Newsgroups: rec.music.dementia
Subject: FAQ: rec.music.dementia LIST

This file will list all of the subjects you can mail with that will send
you an automatic reply.
The auto-server address is jbmorris@kiwi.ucs.indiana.edu
Use that to get these files.
Just mail with one of the following subject lines.
No text is necessary in the body of the letter, and in fact I will not
see it if you put it there anyway.
Also, please note that it is only possible to request one thing at a time.
If your subject line has more than one file listed, only the first will be
sent.  I think this is best, since you would probably not want everything
grouped together in one message anyway.
To correspond with me, please use jbmorris@bronze.ucs.indiana.edu
To send contributions or corrections to these lists, mail
 jbmorris@kiwi.ucs.indiana.edu
Be sure to not use one of the FAQ keywords as a subject line, and also be
sure to have a subject line, otherwise I won't see your letter.
THANKS!
By the way, the server is not case sensitive, so you can type these in caps,
 lowercase, or any combination thereof.
Subjects marked with an asterisk (*) are new since the last posting of the FAQ.
Do NOT include the * in your subject line when requesting them, however.
Here's the list so far...:

Mail with a
subject of:    and you will get:
LIST           This list
FAQ            the introductory note to rec.music.dementia
DIR            Directory of files, to see when a file was last updated,
                how big it is, what files are there, etc.
STATIONS       Scooby's list of stations that broadcast Dr. D
*ADDR           Annie's list of demented artists' addresses
BEAT.NOV       Moko's list of Beatles novelty songs
AL.UNR         a list of unreleased "Weird Al" songs
AL.DISCO       a list of Al's albums and the songs on them
AL.45S         a list of Al's 45's
AL.INT         an interview I did with Al
PYTHON.DISCO   A discography of albums by Monty Python
SHERMAN.DISCO  A discography of records by Allan Sherman
NEWS.11        The Demento Society News, Volume 1 Issue 1, 1st Quarter 1986
NEWS.12        The Demento Society News, Volume 1 Issue 2, 2nd Quarter 1986
NEWS.22        The Demento Society News, Volume 2 Issue 2, 2nd Quarter 1987
NEWS.32        The Demento Society News, Volume 3 Issue 2, Fall/Winter 1990
NEWS.101       The Demento Society News, No. 101  (winter 1992/1993)
[Thanks to annie@redrock.nevada.edu for contributing many of the Demento
Society newsletters available now and in the future.]

Playlists are now available through the FAQ server!
So far, only the playlists for this year are available.
The format for the subject line to request one of the playlists is
DRDYY.MMDD, where YY=the year (so far, only 93 is available), MM=the month
(01=January, 02=February, etc.), and DD=the Sunday the show was aired.  If
your area airs the show on a different day, requesting the Sunday following
that day will probably get you the correct playlist.
The whole year so far is available, but here are some examples:

DRD93.0103     playlist for The Dr. Demento Show: January 3, 1993
DRD93.0425     playlist for The Dr. Demento Show: April 25, 1993
DRD93.0502     playlist for The Dr. Demento Show: May 2, 1993

The new playlist each week is put in around 11:30 PM EST on Sunday, but it
varies.  It will always be posted to the newsgroup first, so if it's not up
there yet, there's no reason to request it from the FAQ server.

There are more Demento Society Newsletters on the way!  I swear!
Also coming soon is a Tom Lehrer biography and discography.

There is now a second directory at the server site exclusively for lyrics.
To access anything in here, you must put "LYRICS: " at the beginning of your
subject line preceding what you wish to request.

To see what lyrics are available so far, mail with a subject of "LYRICS: LIST"

Thanks,
Jeff

From: jbmorris@mango.ucs.indiana.edu (Jeff Morris)
Date: 4 Oct 93 08:51:47 GMT
Newsgroups: rec.music.dementia
Subject: FAQ: rec.music.dementia LYRICS: LIST

This file will list all of the subjects you can mail with that will send
you an automatic reply of lyrics to a particular song or songs.
The auto-server address is jbmorris@kiwi.ucs.indiana.edu
Use that to get these files.
Just mail with one of the following subject lines.
To access files in this directory, the subject line must begin with "LYRICS: ".
To see what non-lyrics files are available, mail with the subject of "LIST"
instead of "LYRICS: LIST".
No text is necessary in the body of the letter, and in fact I will not
see it if you put it there anyway.
Also, please note that it is only possible to request one thing at a time.
If your subject line has more than one file listed, only the first will be
sent.  I think this is best, since you would probably not want everything
grouped together in one message anyway.
To correspond with me, please use jbmorris@bronze.ucs.indiana.edu
To send contributions or corrections to these lists, mail
 jbmorris@kiwi.ucs.indiana.edu
THANKS!
By the way, the server is not case sensitive, so you can type these in caps,
 lowercase, or any combination thereof.
Subjects marked with an asterisk (*) are new since the last posting of the FAQ.
Do NOT include the * in your subject line when requesting them, however.
Here's the list so far...:

Mail with a
subject of:             and you will get:
LYRICS: DIR             Directory of files, to see when a file was last
                         updated, how big it is, what files are there, etc.
LYRICS: LIST            This list of what lyrics are available so far
LYRICS: AL.1ST          the lyrics to "Weird Al" Yankovic's first LP
LYRICS: AL.THREE        the lyrics to Al's _In 3-D_ LP
LYRICS: AL.DTBS         the lyrics to Al's _Dare To Be Stupid_ LP
LYRICS: AL.POLKA        the lyrics to Al's _Polka Party!_ LP
LYRICS: AL.WORSE        the lyrics to Al's _Even Worse_ LP
LYRICS: AL.UHF          the lyrics to Al's _UHF_ LP
LYRICS: AL.OTDE         the lyrics to Al's _Off the Deep End_ LP
*LYRICS: ALAPALOOZA      the lyrics to Al's _Alapalooza_ LP
LYRICS: BRUCES          Bruces' Philosophers sketch and song - Monty Python
LYRICS: COMPUTER.SONGS  various computer parody songs
LYRICS: DEAD.PUPPIES    Dead Puppies - Ogden Edsl
LYRICS: DETERIORATA     Desiderata - Les Crane & Deteriorata - National Lampoon
LYRICS: FISH.HEADS       Fish Heads - Barnes & Barnes
LYRICS: GRANDPA         I'm My Own Grandpa - Lonzo & Oscar
LYRICS: LEHRER.MISC     Some miscellaneous unreleased Tom Lehrer songs
LYRICS: MAJOR.GENERAL   The Major-General's Song - The Pirates of Penzance
                 (the song that Tom Lehrer's "The Elements" is a parody of)
LYRICS: NEGLIGEE        parody of Yesterday - Marty Hale-Evans & Melinda Hale
LYRICS: POLKA.DOT.UNDIES Polka Dot Undies - Bowser & Blue
LYRICS: SCOTSMAN       The Scotsman - Bryan Bowers
LYRICS: SHAKESPEARE.RAP The Shakespeare Rap - Open Season
LYRICS: SHAVING.CREAM   Shaving Cream - Benny Bell & Dr. Demento
LYRICS: STAR.TREKKIN    Star Trekkin' - The Firm
LYRICS: WET.DREAM       Wet Dream - Kip Addotta

Thanks to Dean Myers (Dean.Myers@ebay.sun.com) for sending the Al lyrics, and
Bill Gasarch (gasarch@cs.umd.edu) for sending many of the others, and many more
which I am still putting in!

Thanks,
Jeff

