			Quantum Leap FAQL

Created by: Quantum Buc (buc@world.std.com) and 
	        Debbie Brown (dmb7229@ultb.isc.rit.edu)

With assistance from: Vicky Sailer
	      	      Lisa (Vicky's officemate)
		      Sally Smith (sallylb@netcom.com)
	              Audrey Urling (amu@dukee.egr.duke.edu)
			  and many other members of the QL/usenet community
                      Occasional references from _Harry and Wally's 
                      Favorite TV Shows_, H. Castleman & W. J. Podrazik,
                      Prentice Hall Press, New York, 1989

Updated by:  Sally "Lucky Bitch" Smith (sallylb@netcom.com)
Revision Date: 10/29/92

This is an occasional file that is meant to answer those questions most 
frequently asked about the US television program, Quantum Leap.  It also
attempts to catalog the information viewers have been able to glean from
individual stories and other, official and non-official sources.  Permission
is granted to distribute this file UNMODIFIED to other networks and BBSs.
Rights to modifications to this file is reserved by the updater(s).

   Note: you may freely copy and distribute this guide for personal use
   provided that it be distributed in its entirety, with all original
   author and copyright information intact.  Any sales of this document
   or use of it in a for-profit project are expressly forbidden,
   without the specific consent of the authors.

Other files available are:

The Quantum Leap Primer
The Quantum Leap Episode Guide (maintained by Jason Dzembo - dzembj@rpi.edu)
Quantum Leap GIFs and sounds
A list of Dean Stockwell's previous credits
Transcripts to talks given by Don Bellisario, Deborah Pratt, Scott Bakula
   and Dean Stockwell at The Museum of Broadcasting (3/17/90), UCLA (11/26/90),
   and at the Hitchcock Theater, Universal Studios (2/25/91), plus two
   panels from the QL convention of 3/1/92. (Many thanks to Sally LB Smith 
   for punching all that in!)
A Quantum Leap fortune file (maintained by and available from Mary Anne
   Espenshade - mae@aplpy.jhuapl.edu).

All should be available via anonymous FTP from
ziggy.cisco.com:/ql-archive.  Write to ql-archive@ziggy.cisco.com if you
have trouble accessing the anonymous FTP archive. Please be advised
that ql-archive is NOT a mail response server, but a real human who
will try to answer your questions as time permits.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

Table of contents:

 1.  Who controls the leaps?
 2.  When Al looks at Sam, what does he see?
 3.  Who is in the "Waiting room"?
 4.  When Sam looks at himself, what does he see?
 5.  Can anyone else at the project go into the imaging chamber and see 
     Sam?
 6.  There is no number 6.
 7.  Can Sam die during a leap?
 8.  Why could Sam see when he "replaced" a blind man?  Would he be
	able to hear as a deaf person?
 9.  What does the leapee remember about his experience after he returns?
10.  Can anyone see Sam as Sam, rather than as the leapee?  Can anyone 
     other than Sam see Al?
11.  Why can't Sam leap back beyond his own lifetime?
     (or, why can't he leap into the far past)?
12.  What would happen if Sam failed to do what he was there to do?
13.  How does Ziggy know so much about peoples' lives in the past?
14.  How is it that when Sam leaps into a leapee who is shorter/smaller 
     than he is, people around him don't notice a difference in size?
15.  What is the Imaging Chamber?
16.  Who is this Sally Smith person and why does she know so much about
     the behind the scenes goings-on of Belisarius Productions? Why is she
     called "Lucky Bitch"?
17.  What about other inconsistencies that I've noticed in QL?
18.  I have a script I wrote for the show.  How do I get it to the 
     producers?
19.  Who is this "Gooshie" that Al keeps talking to?
20.  What are "Leapheads"?
21.  Why don't all you "Quantum Leapers" get your own newsgroup and leave 
     us alone?
22.  So what's the story with that episode titled "The B**giem*n" and why 
     do Leapers refuse to mention it by name?
23.  Is Scott Bakula really as nice as he seems to be?
24.  I remember watching a time travel show in the 60's, Time Tunnel.  Anyone 
     else remember it?
25.  Isn't Quantum Leap just like that other time travel show, Voyagers?
26.  If Al is a hologram, why does he cast shadows?
27.  Sam has always been an American. Are there any plans for him
     to be a foreign national, or to leap him into a country other than the US?
28.  Does Scott Bakula do his own singing on the show?
29.  What are these abbreviations you people keep using?
30.  How come cars pass through Al, but he can also ride in them?
31.  Why couldn't Sam leap into the future (post-90's)?
32.  How can I write the network about the show? And how can I write to the
     people who make it?
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

1.   Who controls the leaps?

Nobody knows.  Sam and Al know that it's not Ziggy or anyone at Project 
Quantum Leap. Al told Sam in the pilot that Sam's leaps were out of the 
project's control, so Sam and Al hypothetize that it's Him <eyes heaven-
ward> who is controlling things.

2.   When Al looks at Sam, what does he see?

Al sees the leapee.  In the episode entitled "What Price, Gloria", Al 
was out of control at seeing Sam as the gorgeous secretary.  Al probably 
recognizes Sam because they are linked through their brainwave trans-
missions, which is what is used by the project to locate Sam in time.  

3.   Who is in the "waiting room"?

The leapee.  To everyone at the Project, the leapee looks like Sam.
The waiting room has been described by Don Bellisario as being a
sterile, hospital-like room where the leapee is examined by the
Project's medical staff.  We've seen it a few times and it's big and
blue. Once we got to see (and HEAR) the leapee when she entered the
imaging chamber with Al, and she looked to us like the image Sam saw
in the mirror. This is probably due to the same mechanism that allows
us to see Sam as Sam [Bellisario's rules :)].

4.   When Sam looks at himself, what does he see?

He sees himself, Sam Beckett - unless he looks into a mirror.  Then he 
sees the leapee.

5.   Can anyone else at the project go into the imaging chamber and see 
     Sam?

Depends.  In one episode, (Star-Crossed), several committee members 
entered the chamber with Al, but for them, they were in an empty room 
with Al talking to thin air.  The others were not visible to Sam (or us).  
Only when Al is touching an object will it be visible to Sam (and us). 
In more than one episode, Al brought an object into the waiting room for 
Sam to see (this is beyond Al's clothing, cigar and handlink).  
Skin to skin contact must be needed for another person to be seen in 
the Imaging Chamber.  Dr. Beeks, by holding Al's hand appeared to be 
able to see Sam and in turn was seen by him [and us :)]. In one other
episode (Killin' Time), a quick jury-rigging job by Ziggy enabled
Gooshie (see question 19) to contact Sam via the hologram/brain-wave
process, but the image broke up a lot.

6.   There is no number 6.

[This is a net.Leapers "in joke" that started on Monty Python's Flying Circus.]

7.   Can Sam die during a leap?

According to Don Bellisario, YES he can.

8.   Why could Sam see when he "replaced" a blind man?  Would he be able to 
     hear as a deaf person?

Sam is physically leaping through time, his mass being exchanged with
that of the leapee.  Sam, not sharing the handicap, will not exhibit
it. Sam's entire body and soul trades places with the leapee, although
the physical aura stays around.

To quote The Source Himself (Don Bellisario):

"...when Sam leaps in and bounces somebody out, I like to think of it
this way: ... if that person was hit by a car and they broke their leg
and hit the street and _then_ Sam leaped in, Sam would not have a
broken leg. But if Sam leaped in and was crossing the street and was
hit by the car, then Sam would have the broken leg."

In other words:

He does not share handicaps or injuries suffered by the leapee before 
his leap in, but will sustain injuries suffered while he is there.

9.   What does the leapee remember about his experience after he returns?

This is also not known.  The only time we've seen this occur was in
the episode "Double Identity," where Sam leaped to replace another
body and the original host returned.  He APPEARED to have no memory of
anything after he was leaped into.  It has been stated that the
leapee, while in Sam's body back in the Waiting Room, has a
'swiss-cheesed' memory, much like Sam received upon his initial leap.
Because of the ultramodern hospital-like atmosphere of the waiting
room, many of the leapees believe they have been abducted by aliens.
Deborah Pratt says that as the leapees return, they pick up some of
Sam's memories of what happened, but they believe the events happened
to them.

10.   Can anyone see Sam as Sam, rather than as the leapee?  Can anyone 
      other than Sam see Al?

Small children, the "mentally absent", animals and people near death 
can see him  [And pretty blondes with very low IQs, if Dean Stockwell 
got his way :-)].  Al has explained that children and animals see things 
as they really are because they exist in a natural alpha state.  Also, 
if a person's brainwaves were sufficiently in tune with Sam's, that 
person would be able to see and hear Al too.  

11.  Why can't Sam leap back beyond his own lifetime?
     (or, why can't he leap into the far past)?

This is all part of Sam Beckett's String Theory.  A person's lifetime
is like a string - one end of the string is one's birth, the other end,
one's death.  Tie the ends together and ball up the string, and all
the days of one's life touch all the other days of one's life.  If one
can loose one's self from the string, one can Quantum Leap from one
day to the any other.  On one occasion (so far), Sam was able to leap
back to a time before the date of his birth due to an accident that
occurred during a leap out in the middle of a thunderstorm.  Al and
Sam leaped together and wound up trading places, Al in the past, Sam
in the future.  This "simo-leap" caused an exchange of subatomic matter
between Al and Sam allowing Sam to leap back into Al in the year 1945.
It isn't known at this time if this exchange of matter will be
permanent (therefore allowing Sam to leap even further back) or if it
was cleared up when Sam leaped back.

12.  What would happen if Sam failed to do what he was there to do?

Again, nobody knows.  One theory that we have was that he would be
trapped in the past forever, replacing the host.  This, however, is
doubtful.  Another theory that we have had was that he would leap into
another's life to attempt again to fix "that which has gone wrong".
In "Double Identity", Sam was pulled from the leapee without resolving
the problem he was there to fix.  He leaped immediately to replace
another body in the same room and in that SECOND body completed his
mission.

13.  How does Ziggy know so much about peoples' lives in the past?

Ziggy is hooked up to every major database of the late '90s.  It's
amazing, when you think about it, just how much is REALLY known about
you that is stored on computers.

14.  How is it that when Sam leaps into a leapee who is shorter/smaller 
     than he is, people around him don't notice a difference in size?

I belive it is a question of topology.  I'm not very good at it, but
consider the following argument.  The QL maps everything from a different
time into a frame of reference relative to Sam.  (And vice versa for the
host.)  Sam doesn't see what really happens, but rather what happens
relative to his host. [Doug van der Veen] 

It's all a matter of relativity.  Consider a spaceship 10 meters long.
Send it off at 99.4% of the speed of light and it will seem to be only
1 meter long to anyone still on earth, while still seeming like 10 to
those on board.  Gravity can do the same sort of thing; put an object
deep into a gravity well and it will seem shorter.  The point is the
ship is in a different 'reference frame' than the earth, and the
object in the well is in a different frame then the observer floating
outside it, and things like length (also duration) are not the same
across reference frames. [Larne Pekowsky]

So here's the theory: when Sam leaps his whole body leaps (explaining
things like "Blind Faith"), but it is mapped into a different
reference frame.  If you look through a warped piece of glass, things
seem to be a different size and shape.  The same thing happens with a
warped region of space (cf. "Gravitational Lenses.")  When Sam leaps
the space containing him is warped in such a way that not just length,
but all physical properties are altered.  And, of course, the only
person in Sam's reference frame is Sam, so when he looks at himself he
sees what he has always seen, but when he looks in a mirror the
photons have passed between frames, and so he sees the leapee.
[Pekowsky]

To answer the original question, when Sam, 6ft, has leaped into
someone 5ft7 and is talking to someone, they look at the leapee's eyes,
he sees them looking at his eyes, and likewise he looks down, but the 
person he's talking to sees the leapee looking straight.  Which is 
really right? Neither, or both!  It's the same as asking 'how long 
is the spaceship really.' The answer is completely dependent on what 
frame you're in because certain physical properties have no absolute 
existence. [Pekowsky]

As for how this ties into superstrings - current thought is that strings
don't just define particles, but also in some sense define space and time
themselves (ref: "Superstrings: A Theory of Everything?" edited by PCW
Davies).  When Sam leaps he takes the strings comprising his body and 
'soul,' into a region of space made up of the strings of the person he's 
replacing.  [Pekowsky]

15.  What is the Imaging Chamber?

This is the only place where Al can go to talk to Sam.  Its construction
allows a holographic image of Al to be generated for transmission into
Sam's optic and otic neurons in the past, and for Sam and his surrounding
images to be projected onto Al's neurons. Speculation (and a quote from Don) 
has it that this is a very large and cavernous room judging from the amount
of walking Al can do without bumping into walls and the sound of the door
as it slides open and closed.

16.  Who is this Sally Smith person and why does she know so much about
the behind the scenes goings-on of Belisarius Productions? Why is she
called "Lucky Bitch"?

Hey, that's TWO questions!  Sally Smith is our own "Set Elf", otherwise 
known to the less fortunate of us as the "Lucky Bitch" who resides some-
where in the Bay Area of California.  Through some kind of divine provi-
dence, she has been granted the blessing of frequent visits to the set of 
Quantum Leap where she communes with the shining lights of Leapdom and 
imparts her learnings unto the less fortunate of us on the net (this is 
where the "Lucky Bitch" comes from).  This blessing comes with a price 
however, in the form of air fare, gasoline and phone bills that when 
combined, resemble the national debt.  This price she pays gladly so that 
she may share her visits and info with us both on the net and in her mailing
list. To enroll in the list, send e-mail to her at "leapers@netcom.com".  
Unfortunately for all of us, the frequency of her visits have been greatly 
reduced due to a new studio policy that restricts visits to the sets in 
their domain. [!@#$%^& legal nozzles. Sally Smith]

17.  What about other inconsistencies that I've noticed in QL?

"Don't investigate this too closely."  --Don Bellisario, 3/17/90

18.  I have a script I wrote for the show.  How do I get it to the 
     producers?

One word.  DON'T.  Really.  Sally Smith (see question 16) reports "The
producers have specifically asked that no scripts be sent in" and do
not even look at unsolicited scripts, not even those submitted by
professional writers.  Despite the fact that they do not use other
people's ideas, lawsuits are still filed against them.  People assume
that if they send in a script and something similar shows up in a
story, that they were ripped off - even though their script was never
read by anyone at the company.  Think of it this way: if you thought
of it, they've probably thought of it too, and can either do it
better, are already in the process of doing it, or have already
discarded the idea.

Writer-producer Chris Ruppenthal (see question #22) said on 3/1/92:

"Hey, that's a good question. That's a terrifying question.  Quite 
frankly, stories are submitted _only_ through agents accredited with 
the Writer's Guild of America, East or West. We cannot -- even if you 
call up on the phone, and say, "Hey, I don't want any money for this," 
which a lot of people do, "I just think it would be a cool idea for 
Sam to do that," but we can't listen to it. It's unfortunate, but the 
way the legal system is today, and what has happened to us in the 
past, we have to be very strict and very certain. If you submit a 
manuscript, a "Quantum Leap" spec script, it will be returned unread 
by our legal department. We just can't. What we don't want to do to 
aspiring writers, or writers who've already done some work, is  
consciously or unconsciously co-opt an idea and beat you out of the 
money. Because it's only fair that your ideas get the recognition they 
deserve, if they're good ideas, and the payment they deserve, and 
that's why they _have_ to go through an agent. And _not_ an attorney, 
but an agent, a literary agent, who can represent you."

19.  Who is this "Gooshie" that Al keeps talking to?

Gooshie is Ziggy's programmer, a short guy with bad breath.  We used
to see him very briefly in profile wearing a headset in the opening
title sequence as Sam is leaping out and in the pilot and the episodes
"The Leap Back", and "Killin' Time". He's played by Dennis Wolfberg.

20.  What are "Leapheads"?

There is no such creature as a Leaphead.  This is a word coined by a NBC
employee referring to a Leaper, which is a Quantum Leap fan.  "Leaper" is
the preferred term, used by the fans themselves and the cast and crew of 
Quantum Leap when speaking about the fans.  The prevailing attitude is,
"if 'Leaper' is good enough for Don Bellisario and company, it's good 
enough for us".

21.  Why don't all you "Quantum Leapers" get your own newsgroup and leave 
     us alone?

The official vote to create rec.arts.quantum-leap failed on July 25,
1991. An alt.* group has been ruled out as a great number of r.a.t's
Quantum Leapers do not have access to alt groups so to create one
would not be fair to them.  Looks as if you're stuck with us for a
while longer. :-)

22.  So what's the story with that episode titled "The B**giem*n" and why 
     do Leapers refuse to mention it by name?

[Episode title edited for net.safety] This episode first aired near 
Halloween 1990, and from the first time it aired, weird events have been 
associated with this episode.  As an example, this episode seems to have 
the highest incidence of VCR/cable/local station failure than any other 
episode aired.  There have been numerous reports of VCRs cutting out during 
the taping of this episode, local stations and cable companies dropping 
their signal.  Even mentioning it by name is hazardous, as one net.Leaper 
can attest.  This hapless individual (who knew better) was bandying about 
the name of this episode.  He lost his job AND his net.access.  Its mention 
has been known to cause power failures and auto breakdowns, so it's best to 
just refer to it as "The Halloween Episode".  Leapers everywhere will know 
of what you speak. By the way, cameras and recording equipment also tend
to act strangely around Chris Ruppenthal, the writer of this episode.
Since it aired, his nickname has been "Ruppenboogie". He _is_ kind 
enough not to say the title of the episode around the fans, though
director Joe Napolitano does. Mention of all this merely causes Chris
to laugh evilly.

As long as we're on the subject of Chris, Joe, and weirdness, let's note
that the episode "The Curse of Pt*h-H*tep" appears to cause earthquakes
in Southern California -- the large quakes of Apr. and June 1992 coincided
with the two showings of this episode. Pretty scary, huh, kids?

23.  Is Scott Bakula really as nice as he seems to be?

Yes, yes a thousand times yes.  A perfect example of just how nice, patient,
hardworking and DECENT this man is is his appearance at the QL screening
for the fans in LA back on February 25, 1991.  He had put in a hard day on
the set working on the episode "Last Dance Before an Execution", a very 
emotionally intense, exhausting episode when he had to appear at the 
screening to answer questions (with the BGU, Deborah Pratt and Dean) and 
to meet the fans.  He was pleasant and open with the fans, even joking 
with people and accepting small gifts and hugs with aplomb.  Afterward,
he was mobbed by (literally!) hundreds of mostly female fans who requested 
his autograph and their picture taken with him.  He spoke to each person 
and smiled for the cameras.  He is truly a sweet, gracious person, traits 
which are shared by the rest of the people associated with this production.

Any further elaborations can be filled in by FAQ # 16, the LB herself. :)

[Why, thank you, Debbie...] Another example is the UCLA screening of
11/25/90.  Scott had been to New York City and back that weekend
(appearing in the Macy's parade), had put in a long day at work and
was in a great deal of pain from an injured ankle. But he walked out
on stage and answered questions like he hadn't a care in the world and
afterwards signed autographs until co-executive producer Michael
Zinberg literally picked him up off the floor and took him away,
telling him he had to go to work the next day. Then there was the
convention...well, you get the idea.  [Sally Smith]

24.  I remember watching a time travel show in the 60's, Time Tunnel.  Anyone 
     else remember it?

Ah yes, Irwin Allen's Time Tunnel.  This was a show about a secret
government funded time travel experiment in which a young researcher
sends himself back in time in an effort to prevent the project's
funding from being cut.  This, the two men travelling through time,
and the efforts to retrieve them are the only things this show has in
common with Quantum Leap (which only has ONE man travelling through
time, his companion is firmly rooted in the future, but I digress).
In the Time Tunnel, time travellers Anthony Newman and Doug Phillips
unfailingly arrived at historical events and desperately tried to
influence events based on their knowledge of the outcome.  They always
failed.  This is a show where the time travellers would find
themselves at the Roman coliseum one week, and in Napoleon's army the
next, THEN tripping to the bombing of Pearl Harbor.  It is drastic
time changes like this that Don Bellisario wanted to avoid when he
imposed the 'within his own lifetime' rule.  He felt the huge
differences in time settings were distracting and unrealistic. :-)

25.  Isn't Quantum Leap just like that other time travel show, Voyagers?

Phineas Bogg with the assistance of companion Jeffrey Jones are time
travellers who find themselves trying to fix history, or to 'put
things right' when 'people become displaced in time and find themselves
a half-step away from a totally different destiny' [Harry and Wally].
In one episode, Franklin D. Roosevelt became a movie director and it
was up to Phineas and Jeffrey to set him on the right course to the
presidency of the United States.  This is another show that would find
its heroes travelling to far-flung places and times, a plot device
that Don Bellisario wanted to avoid.

26.  If Al is a hologram, why does he cast shadows?

The shadows are holograms, too, and are generated and projected by Ziggy as
part of the process, of course. [Sally Smith]

Seriously, while Al may not cast shadows, _Dean_ certainly does
(especially since-- as QL's director of photography Michael Watkins, ASC
once put it-- "Dean likes to talk with his hands so much that he's a
pretty active shadow anyway."). It's simply physically impossible to
eliminate them all.  Also, there are times when having Al not cast a
shadow would actually make him look fake--like a pasted-on cut out
effect instead of a real person. See question # 17. [Sally Smith]

27.  Sam has always been an American. Are there any plans for him
     to be a foreign national, or to leap him into a country other
     than the US?

>From the convention of 3/1/92:

JOE NAPOLITANO: Wednesday, we start filming him in Egypt. The question
was, does he go overseas or has he ever gone into other than American
situations?  Well, Vietnam was one.

CHRIS RUPPENTHAL: Also, will he be a foreign national? We've talked
about it several times. There's nothing right in the immediate future
for him being a foreign...We've talked about him being like an Arab
sheik, like the wealthiest guy in the known universe, with y'know, a
harem of women, he leaps in, "Oh, boy!" "Master, we're here to serve
you!" "Oh, boy."

In "Leaping of the Shrew", Sam was a Greek national, and the show was
set in the Aegean. As of this writing (10/92) reputable rumors have it
that there will be more leaps outside the US in the fifth season,
including one into London.

28. Does Scott Bakula do his own singing on the show?

You betcha. Scott is an accomplished singer (1988 Tony nomination for
"Romance/Romance"), pianist (see "Blind Faith"), songwriter (he wrote
the lyrics to the song "Somewhere in the Night" from "Piano Man"),
dancer, and all-around athlete. Let's put it this way -- if you think
Scott's doing it (and it's not wildly dangerous) -- it's him.

29. What are these abbreviations you people keep using?

Whoops, sorry! GTF means "God, Time, or Fate" -- whatever "unknown
force" is leaping Sam around. BGU (coined by Warren J. Madden) stands
for "Big Guy Upstairs", and depending on context, that either means
GTF or Don Bellisario.

30. Since Al is a hologram, we always see the neat effects of cars
    driving right through him, etc, so how can he sit in the car and
    travel within it too?

Well, when Al appears to be riding in the car, what's actually
happening is that he's merely placed his image within the car and
set it (his image) to track along with Sam's traveling. This same
technique also allows him to track alongside the outside of moving
vehicles as well. I'd assume that he's standing the entire time
he's "riding," which also accounts for why he often seems to be
facing a different direction than one normally would while riding
in a vehicle (i.e. straight ahead). [Robin C. Kwong]

31. I read the QL primer and I understand the concept of time strings
    with the parts of the string touching other times, and how the rule is
    that Sam can only leap to times that occur during his own life-time.
    My question is, why can't Sam leap into the future?  By the future, I
    mean that period of time between the first leap, and Sam's death.

Sam's leaping into post-'90s time would seem to fit within the
definition of "his own lifetime," since one's birth as well as death
would consititute one's entire lifetime. This was stated as much in
"Genesis" ("One end of this string represents your birth; the other
end, your death. You tie the ends together, and your life is a loop.
Ball the loop...and the days of your life touch each other out of
sequence. Therefore, leaping from one point in the string to another
- --" "Would move you back and forth within your own lifetime.").

With this in mind, then, "future" leaps would seem to be possible.
However, since now the m.o. of the Project has changed slightly due to
the interference of GTFWhoever, it just might not be practical.  That
is, Sam leaps in order to right some wrong, often using his knowledge
of the future to solve the problem -- or at the very least, the fact
that he's from the future enables him to recognize the fact that there
*exists* a problem at all (preventing something from happening that
the original host didn't see coming up the first time around). In a
"future" leap, Ziggy would be useless in terms of obtaining data, Al
would be reduced to being only able to offer moral support or an extra
pair of eyes, and Sam would be just as clueless about the situation as
the original leapee was (and probably even more so). The sheer
impracticality of these conditions would then cut down quite a bit the
probability of a "future" leap.

Then again, if Sam does do a "future" leap, would that give away
the fact that he's not going to die in any other leap before the
Project's "real time" reaches that date? [Robin C. Kwong]

32. How can I write the network about the show? And how can I write to the
       people who make it?

That's two questions again, but they're good ones. :-)

If you want to write the network, say, to express your support for the
show, write to:

	Warren Littlefield
	NBC-TV
	3000 W. Alameda Ave.
	Burbank, CA 91523

(Don't put anything about Quantum Leap on the envelope, or they'll
just send it to the address below.)

To write to the people responsible for the show -- all those names you
see in the credits -- write to:

	{name of person}
	QUANTUM LEAP
	100 Universal City Plaza
	Bldg. 426C
	Universal City, CA 91608

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=



Keep Leaping...

