From: Lee_Whiteside-P14942@email.mot.com
Date: 24 Feb 93 00:36:59 GMT
Newsgroups: alt.tv.babylon-5
Subject: Latest B5 FAQL

Here's the latest version of the FAQL.  I imagine the next version will 
include a section on explanations of things in the movie (the "zoo", etc).
This is the same that was posted to rec.arts.sf.tv a couple of days ago, so 
apologies for those that this is a repeat for.

The BABYLON 5 Frequently Asked Questions List

Updated 2/18/93

Compiled by Lee Whiteside

This FAQL is copyright 1993 by Lee Whiteside

1.  What is Babylon 5?

Babylon 5 is a new science fiction television series that will be part
of a new Warner Bros. Television Consortium, called the Prime Time
Entertainment Network, much like the Fox network when it started.
It is set on a Space Station in the mid 23rd Century.  It will premiere
with a two hour movie, "The Gathering", in February, 1993.  It is
currently only a pilot movie, but a series order is expected from
Warner Bros. after the pilot has aired.

2.  Who is behind Babylon 5?

The show was created by J. Michael Straczynski (JMS), who will be co-
executive producer on the show along with Doug Netter.  It has been in
development since 1987, the last few years with Warner Bros.

J. Michael Straczynski has been involved with genre television for many
years, as story editor and writer for the Twilight Zone TV series
(syndicated version), Captain Power, and the animated The Real
Ghostbusters.  He has also written for Jake and the Fatman and is
currently a producer/writer on Murder She Wrote.  JMS has also had many
published short stories, an anthology, and two fantasy/horror novels.
Until recently, he was co-host of Hour 25, a Los Angeles area
science fiction radio talk show.

3.  What makes JMS think he can do a good science fiction TV show?

JMS has been on many panels at science fiction conventions dealing
with what's wrong with science fiction on television.  He has also
been active on various computer networks getting feedback from
science fiction fans.  His main criteria for a good science fiction
television series include that it must be good science fiction AND
good television (both are rarely combined together in one show),
it would be geared towards adults, not kids ("No Cute Kids, No Cute
Robots.  Ever!"), doing for science fiction what "Hill Street Blues"
did for police shows.  It would also have to be done on a reasonable
budget and it should look like nothing ever seen on TV.  And to make
it a series, it would not be just individual stories (alien attack/
possession/misunderstanding of the week), the stories would be part
of an overall larger story, but still watchable each week as a
separate chapter.

From all indications, JMS is accomplishing what he set out to do.
The pilot movie pre-production and filming came in UNDER budget and
on schedule.  In information given out so far, there is no sign of
any kids or robots.  Many noted science fiction authors have given
very favorable comments on Babylon 5.  And it has all been done with
no interference from Warner Bros. in the creative area.  Presentations
by JMS at various science fiction conventions have gotten very
positive responses from the fans.

4.  Who else will be working on Babylon 5?

Richard Compton, Director: Richard has worked a lot on TV, including
The Equalizer, ST:TNG ("Haven"), and many TV movies.

The production team includes:

Ron Thornton (Computer EFX): Computer Graphics expert.

John Iacovelli (Production designer) Has worked on "Honey I Shrunk
the Kids".

Billy Dickson (Director of Cinematography)

Bob Brown (Production Manager/Line Producer): Producer and/or
production manager on War of the Roses, Indiana Jones & the Temple of
Doom, Return of the Jedi, Iceman and Childs Play (all three).

Mary Jo Slater (Casting Director) Did casting for the revived Dark Shadows,
Intruders mini-series, and Star Trek VI.

Stewart Copeland (Musical Score) formerly of The Police.  He has done music
for The Equalizer TV series as well as the Francis Ford Coppola movie
"Rumblefish".

It is intended to have many science fiction writers involved with the
show when it goes to series.  Names that have been mentioned include
Harlan Ellison (who is writing "The Babylon 5 Manifest" which is a guide
on how to write Science Fiction for TV), David Gerrold (rumored to be
writing the novelization of the pilot),  Walter Koenig (who may write
for the show as well as turn up as a guest star).

5.  Who has been cast for the show?

Michael O'Hare (Commander Jeffrey Sinclair):

Movies: By A Thread; Into Thin Air; Pursuit; Short Term Bonds;
The Promise.

TV: Rage of Angels; Adams Chronicles; Equalizer;LA Law;
Case of Deadly Force; Blue Revolution; Kate and Allie.

Broadway: A Few Good Men; Players; Man and Superman; Galileo.


Tamlyn Tomita (Laurel Takashima)

Movies: Come See The Paradise; Orange Curtain; Hawaiian Dream;
The Karate Kid II; Vietnam, Texas

TV: Quantum Leap ("Temptation Eyes); The Trials of Rosie O'Neil;
Tour of Duty; Santa Barbara (series regular); Raven (pilot)

TV Movies: Hiroshima:Out of the Ashes; To Heal A Nation.


Peter Jurasik (Ambassador Londo Mollari of the Centauri Republic):

Movies: Problem Child; Enemy Mine; Tron; Straight Time; Mr. Jones

TV: Columbo; Hill Street Blues; Beverly Hills Buntz; Civil Wars;
Remington Steele; MacGyver.


Andreas Katsulas (Ambassador G'Kar of the Narn Regime):

Movies: Husbands and Wives; Sunset; Someone To Watch Over Me;
Communion; Next of Kin; The Sicilian, True Identity

TV: Star Trek:The Next Generation (Romulan Tomalok in episodes
"The Defector", "The Enemy" and "Future Imperfect"); Alien Nation;
The Equalizer; Max Headroom; The Human Factor; The Guiding Light

TV Movies: The Death of the Incredible Hulk; Murder Times Seven;
Seduction: Three Tales from the 'Inner Sanctum';


Blaire Baron (Carolyn Sykes):

Movies: A League of Their Own.


Johnny Sekka (Dr. Benjamin Kyle):

Movies:  The Fever; Ashanti; Southern Star; Khartoum;
Woman of Straw; Hanky Panky; A Warm December;

TV: Roots Second Generation; Master of the Game; Kingston
Confidential; Passion in Paradise


Jerry Doyle (Security Chief Michael Garibaldi):

Movies: Kidnapped; Being in Time

TV: Reasonable Doubts; Homefront; Bold and Beautiful;
Moonlighting.


Mira Furlan (Minbari Ambassador Delenn):

Movies: When Father Was Away on Business; Three For Happiness;
Dear Video; Southbound; The Condemned; The Beauty of Sin.


Patricia Tallman (Lyta Alexander):

Movies: Night of the Living Dead (remake); Army of Darkness;
Sweet Justice; Knightriders; Monsignore; Roadhouse;

TV: Generations; Tales from the Darkside; Miracles;
Guiding Light.


Vorlon Ambassador Kosh Naranek: Himself (i.e. animatronics)


6. How much of the series is planned out already?

As part of the development of "Babylon 5", a five year arc has been
planned as if it were a five year miniseries.  Events have been
planned for each season, which will tell a larger story over time.
There is plenty of room for individual stories within each season.
There is also a writers guide as well as much backstory on the
Babylon 5 universe.

7. How has Babylon 5's development progressed?

Spring/Summer 1987: BABYLON 5 treatment created by J. Michael
Straczynski, also writer's bible.

May 1988: artist Peter Ledger hired to design a BABYLON 5 logo,
and to do a series of paintings based on the treatment and bible,
which were then used for various presentations.

Summer/Fall 1988: BABYLON 5 pitched to CBS, HBO, ABC and others.

March 1989: BABYLON 5 pitched to Chris-Craft Television, a
consortium of stations.  CCT pledges support of B5, and attempts are
made throughout 1988 and 1989 to create co-production deals with
foreign investors.

June/July 1989: BABYLON 5 submitted/pitched to Paramount.

December 1989: BABYLON 5 receives additional pledge of support
from Warner Bros., which begins working with CCT to form fifth network
at same time.

November 1991: BABYLON 5 announced as one of three flagship
projects for the Primetime Network (Warners and the TV Consortium).
The trades carry the story extensively.

June,July, 1992 - Casting for the pilot movie.

August 10th, 1992 - Filming on the pilot movie begins.

September 4th, 1992 - Filming ends on the pilot movie.

November  7th, 1992 - First showing of pilot movie to a convention audience
at Wishcon II in Springfield, Mass.

November 28th, 1992 - First announced showing of pilot movie to a convention
audience at Loscon 19 in Los Angeles, Ca.

January 14, 1993 - Final edit of pilot movie completed.

February 19 & 20, 1993 - Satellite feed of pilot movie to local stations

Week of February 22nd, 1993 - TV debut of the pilot movie.

Fall, 1993 - Start of weekly series?


8. Which TV stations will air Babylon 5?

Most of the the stations that are part of the Prime Time
Entertainment Network are independent stations or part of the
Fox Network. For a detailed list of stations, refer to the
Babylon 5 / PTEN station list available separately.

The satellite feed of the pilot movie is scheduled for
February 19 at 1:30 am to 3:45 a.m. ET T301 transponder 9H (18)
February 20 at 6:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. ET T301 transponder 2V (3).
As with the sat feed of the other PTEN shows, expect the blank
spaces for local commercials to run the full time (i.e. 2 minutes
of blank space instead of a few seconds for a 2 minute local
commercial break).

9. How certain is the show to be a series and how can you help?

According to JMS, a series is very likely, the main question is
when it will happen.  With PTEN having already started with two
series ("Time Trax" and "Kung Fu: The Legend Continues"), in order
to start up a third series, it will either have to replace one of
the existing ones or be part of a second night of programming
(in which case a fourth show is needed).  How soon this happens
depends both on the ratings of the two series that started in
January and the ratings and viewer response to the "Babylon 5"
movie.

JMS has asked fans to write and call their local stations once the
show airs to let them know you like it.  After calling them,
letters to Warner Bros would help as well.  Write to:

Dick Robertson
Vice President Domestic Television Distribution
Warner Bros. Television
4000 Warner Boulevard
Burbank, CA 91522.

If you would like to write to Babylon 5's creator, send mail to:
J. Michael Straczynski
14431 Ventura Boulevard, Suite 260
Sherman Oaks, CA  91423


10. Once the show goes to series, can I submit a script?

JMS has said that for the first season, all scripts will be done
"in-house", utilizing writers that Joe has worked with before and
that he can work closely with in getting the series started.
JMS plans to start accepting scripts for the second season and
will announce submittal specifics at that time.


11.  Where can I find out more about Babylon 5?

a) On the GEnie Science Fiction RoundTable, there is a Babylon 5 category
where JMS talks with the fans about the show, both production and story
info. Most of the information in this FAQ came from this category. It is
located at Page 471, Category 18.  Archives of past messages are available
in the GEnie SFRT files areas.  In honor of the fans who are involved with
this group, the specific location of Babylon 5 corresponds to the original
location of the GEnie topic (Grid Epsilon 470,18,22).  A split of the GEnie
SFRT in November, 1992 created the Babylon 5 category, moving the original
topic into the new category.

b) Available on GEnie and Compuserve, in their respective science fiction
file areas, are various text files and two GIF files, one of the Babylon 5
space station and another of a Vorlon ship.

c)  The Official Babylon 5 Newsletter

A Babylon 5 newsletter is being produced with the cooperation
of J. Michael Straczynski by Christy Marx.  The first issue was
made available for free and some copies may still be available.
To receive the additional issues, send a $5 check or money order
to Christy Marx, Editor - BABYLON 5 NEWSLETTER, P.O. Box 2325,
Oakhurst, CA  93644.

d) Call NewTek at (800) 765-3406 and request a copy of their latest demo
tape.  This tape contains a moving Babylon 5 station, and a starship
that is also used in the first part of the B5 demo itself,
though the two are shown in reverse order.  This is animation from
the early stages of development.

e) Broadcasting Magazine: July 13th issue has an article on Babylon 5
including a nice color photo of the Babylon 5 station.  Check your local
libraries.  A later issue has an article on the special effects being
done for the show.

f) Starlog Magazine Articles:

Starlog Spectacular #4, March 1992, page 54. Article on NewTek's Video
Toaster. The photo that fills the bottom half of the page is an early
version of the Babylon 5 station.

Starlog: September, 1992 Has a feature article on Babylon 5.
NOTE: The pictures with the articles are either outdated or have
little, if anything, to do with Babylon 5.

Starlog Spectacular, Jan 1993 :  Feature article with many pictures from
the computer animation done for the show.

Starlog: February, 1993 has an interview with Andreas Katsulas where he
talks about his involvement with Babylon 5 and other genre appearances.

g) Science Fiction Conventions: J. Michael Straczynski has been attending
science fiction conventions when possible to promote Babylon 5.
Appearances so far have included LosCon 18, Galllifrey One in 3D,
WesterColt .45, the San Diego Comic Con, WishCon II, and LosCon 19.
Upcoming con appearances planned by J. Michael Straczynski include:

Gallifrey One Goes Forth, Los Angeles - February 26-28, 1993

Con-Dor, San Diego, CA  - March 6-7, 1993

Bay-Con, San Francisco - Memorial Day weekend

Also, Arne Starr, Artist on the DC Comics Star Trek series has been
making Babylon 5 presentations at cons he has appeared at.
Creation Entertainment  is currently showing a Babylon 5
promotional tape at their conventions.

h) Cinefantastique Magazine Articles:

December 1992 issue has a two page article on Babylon 5.

January, 1993 issue has a  20 page feature article/cover story.

i) E! Televsion has produced a "Making of Babylon 5" special which has
aired on E! Television and will also air on the TV stations carrying
Babylon 5 early in 1993.  Note that one segment of the special focused on
some of the animatronics used for background characters seen only
briefly (if at all).

j) USENET/INTERNET sources:

alt.tv.babylon5 was created the week of Feb 15th.  Check to see if
you have access to it.

rec.arts.sf.tv is also appropriate for posts regarding Babylon 5.
Cross-posting to rec.arts.tv and rec.arts.startrek.misc should only
be done when necessary.

The Babylon 5 mailing list:

The original Babylon 5 mailing list has been moved to
 babylon5-l@isuvax.iastate.edu.  Management of the list is handled
through the mailserv account. The following commands are those that
can be invoked by mailing mailserv@isuvax.iastate.edu:

HELP - sends a help file similar to this one.
INDEX - send a list of files available
INFO - same as help
LISTS - what mailing lists are located at isuvax.iastate.edu
SEND - send the requested file found via the "index" command
SEND/LIST BABYLON5-L - sends a list of subscribers of the mailing list
SUBSCRIBE BABYLON5-L - subscribes you to the mailing list
UNSUBSCRIBE BABYLON5-L - unsubscribes from the mailing list.

all of these commands should be in the body of the message,
the subject can be anything.

NOTES: Send any requests to mailserv@isuvax.iastate.edu.
       Send messages to babylon5-l@isuvax.iastate.edu.

FTP sites:
coe.montana.edu (192.31.215.240) has a Babylon 5 files area in
/ftp/pub/TV/Guides/babylon-5

ftp.hyperion.com (192.65.216.1) has a Babylon 5 files area that
includes Babylon 5 mailing list digests, GIF files, and other
information files in /pub/Babylon-5

k) Other Lists (available at the hyperion FTP site):

The Babylon 5 / Prime Time Entertainment Network Station list.
Posted occasionally to rec.arts.sf.tv and rec.arts.tv.

The Babylon 5 Actors Other Roles list (also included in this FAQL)

The Babylon 5 Grid Epsilon Log - Detailed information, backstory and
character profiles posted by J. Michael Straczynski on GEnie,
compiled by Phil Posner. (B5REVISE.TXT on GEnie)


12. Miscellaneous Info

a. Merchandising:

Licensing Company of America, a subsidiary of Warner Bros. is handling
the licensing of Babylon 5 products.

Creation Conventions has licensed some products already, like t-shirts,
hats, etc.

Electronic Arts has licensed the rights to a computer game based on
Babylon 5.

A novel based on the pilot movie is planned when the show goes to series.
David Gerrold is lined up to write it.

A Comic adaptation should happen, most likely with DC comics.  Nothing
has been announced yet, though.

b. Fans influence on the show:

Partially due to fan response from those who have seen the pilot movie
or clips, some things in the pilot movie were changed:

The voice of Delenn will be Mira Furlan's voice without any processing
and Delenn will be female to begin with.  Original plans were to
electronically process her voice and have Delenn change sex during the
series.

Some additional voice-over was done by Patricia Tallman to clarify one
scene in the show.


13. What is Babylon 5 About?

Babylon 5 is set in the year 2257 A.D. on a 5 kilometer long
space station in neutral space.  It was constructed by the
Earth Alliance to help keep the peace between the EA and
four other alien alliances of which Babylon 5 is centrally
located between.  Each of the alliances has an official
representative on the station.

These include the Earth Alliance, represented by Commander
Jeffrey Sinclair, who is in charge of Babylon 5.

The Minbari, represented by Ambassador Delenn.  The Minbari
waged a war with the Earth Alliance 10 years earlier and
mysteriously surrendered on the brink of victory.

The Centauri Republic, represented by Londo Mollari.  The
Centauri Republic was the first to make contact with Earth
and helped advance their technology.  However, they are
really on the decline, much like the decline of the Britsh
Empire.

The Narn Regime, represented by Ambassador G'Kar.  The Narn
were previously under the control of The Centauri Republic
but rebelled and are now independent and growing in influence.

The Vorlons, represented by Ambassador Kosh Naranek.  The
Vorlons have avoided contact with the other alliances and
are a mystery.  They have agreed to participate with Babylon 5
and the arrival of Kosh is central to the opening pilot movie.

Other major characters include:

Vice-Commander Laurel Takashima who is second in command of
Babylon 5 and is in charge of the day-to-day operations of
the station.  She's smart and resourceful and can take care
of herself quite well.

Security Chief Michael Garibaldi is in charge of security on
Babylon 5.  He has a troubled past but was picked by Sinclair
for the job.

Dr. Benjamin Kyle is the ship's resident xenobiologist.  He's
an expert on alien medicine and took the Babylon 5 position to
have the aliens come to him, instead of him traveling to the
aliens.

Lyta Alexander is a Rent-a-Telepath on the station.  Telepaths
are used regularly in business dealings and are regulated with
strict rules set by the Psi-Corps.

Carolyn Sykes is Sinclair's romantic interest and is the owner
and pilot of a trading vessel.  She's known Sinclair for quite
a while and is very independent.

For additonal (and much more detailed) information, refer to
the Babylon 5 Grid Epsilon Log text file (see FAQL item #11).


11. What kind of Special Effects will Babylon 5 have?

All space visual effects for Babylon 5 will be comuter generated.
Ron Thornton is utilizing specialized software in conjunction with
NewTek's Video Toaster to design and render the visual effects.
The only models used on the show will be computer models.

*****************************************************************

The Babylon 5 Frequently Asked Questions List

Some of the information contained in this FAQL is based on posts by
J. Michael Straczynski in the Babylon 5 category in the GEnie Science
Fiction Roundtable (Page 471; Cat 18).

Compiled by Lee Whiteside     L.WHITESIDE (GEnie)
            76044,502 (Compuserve)
            elw@cup.portal.com (USENET)
            P14942@email.mot.com (INTERNET for e-mail)
            Sysop of the Magrathea/SEVAC BBS (602)833-9216

