Newsgroups: alt.philosophy.objectivism,sci.answers,sci.philosophy.meta,sci.philosophy.tech,alt.answers,news.answers
Path: bloom-beacon.mit.edu!nic.hookup.net!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!lgc.com!cww
From: cww@zycor.lgc.com (Chris Walker)
Subject:  FAQ: Ayn Rand's Philosophy of Objectivism 
Message-ID: <1994Feb3.170532.19573@lgc.com>
Sender: cwalker@zycor.lgc.com (Chris Walker) 
Nntp-Posting-Host: scholz.zycor.lgc.com
Organization: Landmark/Zycor   Austin, Texas
Date: Thu, 3 Feb 1994 17:05:32 GMT
Approved:  news-answers-request@MIT.Edu
Lines: 951
Xref: bloom-beacon.mit.edu alt.philosophy.objectivism:10270 sci.answers:875 sci.philosophy.meta:5889 sci.philosophy.tech:4895 alt.answers:1771 news.answers:14858

Archive-name: objectivism/faq
Last-modified:  1994/02/03

Here is the current FAQ file on Ayn Rand's ideas that I have compiled.

Please sent suggestions and corrections to cwalker@zycor.lgc.com
 
Chris Walker

-------------------- CUT HERE ---------------------------------------

Frequently Asked Questions
Objectivism: The philosophy of Ayn Rand


Author:  Chris Walker
Date:   December 19, 1993 

Questions Answered
------------------

I.    What is Objectivism and the Role of Philosophy in Human life?
II.   Who is Ayn Rand?
III.  Ayn Rand's Debt to Aristotle
IV.   Ayn Rand on Aristotle
V.    Was Ayn Rand a Conservative or a Libertarian?
VI.   Where can one find out more about Ayn Rand's ideas?
VII.  What about other electronic forums where her ideas are discussed?
VIII. What about audio and video recordings of Ayn Rand and others?
IX.   What about campus clubs?  Where can I find out how to start my own?
X.    Bibliography of Published Articles in Academic Journals
XI.   Reading List on Objectivism
XII.  Major Objectivist Events
XIII. Local Events and Groups
XIV.  Suggestions and Corrections
 
Acknowledgements
----------------

Based on suggestions from several users of alt.philosophy.objectivism
either posted publically or sent to me privately.

My thanks to Austin Moseley, Brian Yoder, Magnus Kempe, Jay Allen and many
others for their assistance in compiling this file.  It was originally
composed in March 1993.

(12/19/93) Revised bibliography and expanded references to Jay Allen's
ORG file. 

(2/2/94) Changed section I to focus more on Ayn Rand's views on philosophy
as well as presenting some essentails of her ideas.
 
References for Quotes
--------------------- 

"The Ayn Rand Lexicon", edited by Harry Binswanger.  
Copyright 1986 by Harry Binswanger.  Publisher, New American Library

"The New Left: The Anti-Industrial Revolution," by Ayn Rand. 

ARI (Ayn Rand Institute) biography of Ayn Rand

Purpose of this FAQ
-------------------

Since the formation of alt.philosophy.objectivism, there has been a need to
get a few basic questions answered about Ayn Rand and her philosophy.
This FAQ is different from most FAQ's on the internet in that there are
better sources of information already in print on Rand's ideas than can be
presented in a FAQ.  I have decided to tantalize the reader with a 
little bit of Ayn Rand and then indicate where to find out more about her.

Extensive information on Objectivist organizations and publications may be 
found in Jay Allen's "Objectivist Resource Guide" posted on the same 
newsgroups as this FAQ.  

Disclaimer
----------

Copyright 1993 (C) by Chris Walker except where specified.

This is not an official presentation of Ayn Rand's philosophy.  The author
supports the activities of the Ayn Rand Institute and associated organizations
but does not represent these organizations in any way.  In my judgement,
only those individuals listed in the reading list as Objectivists have 
demonstrated that they are qualified to present Ayn Rand's ideas accurately
with professional quality.

There is no guarantee that Ayn Rand's ideas will be accurately represented 
on alt.philosophy.objectivism group or any other electronic forum.  With 
the exceptions that I list in this FAQ, the best source for Ayn Rand's 
ideas is Ayn Rand herself.  This must be overstated because Rand is 
frequently misinterpreted, misattributed and misunderstood.

Distribution
------------

This list may be distributed anywhere provided that it is distributed in
full and that all of the header information is retained.  The bibliography
and reading list may be distributed in full or in part separately provided 
that appropriate credit is given.  Otherwise, no deletions or modifications
may be made.  Some quotes are from copyrighted works.  Any new version 
posted on USENET by me supersedes any previous version.

As with Jay Allen's list, if any altered versions of this file are 
being distributed, please notify me at cwalker@zycor.lgc.com or 
chrisw@wixer.bga.com. 
 
Corrections
-----------

Please send suggestions and updates to cwalker@zycor.lgc.com

QUESTIONS
---------

I.    What is Objectivism and the Role of Philosophy in Human life?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Ayn Rand had the following to say about the nature of philosophy:

"Philosophy is the science that studies the fundamental aspects of the
nature of existence.  The task of philosophy is to provide man with a
comprehensive view of life.  This view serves as a base, a frame of 
reference, for all his actions, mental or physical, psychological or 
existential.  This view tells him the nature of the universe with which
he has to deal (metaphysics); the means by which he has to deal with,
i.e., the means of acquiring knowledge (epistemology); the standards
by which he is to choose his goals and values, in regard to his own 
life and character (ethics)--and in regard to society (politics); the
means of concretizing this view is given to him by esthetics."

"The Chicken's Homecoming," from "The New Left: The Anti-Industrial
Revolution," p107

Objectivism is the philosophy of Ayn Rand and is her discovery.  It is
her answer to the questions posed in these five broad areas regarding
the nature of the universe, how man comes to know it, the standards
by which he lives and and how to live with others in society.  She also
addresses the nature of the ideal of moral perfection and the ideal
art form in her philosophy of art.  

Ayn Rand summarized her philosophy in "The Objectivist Newsletter" in 1962 as

1. Metaphysics:  Objective Reality
2. Epistemology:  Reason
3. Ethics:  Self Interest
4. Politics: Laissez-faire capitalism
5. Aesthetics: Romantic Realism

[point 5 was not included in her "standing on one foot" presentation of 
Objectivism ]

1.  Reality exists as an objective absolute--facts are facts, independent 
of man's feelings, wishes, hopes or fears.

2.  Reason (the faculty which identifies and integrates the material 
provided by man's senses) is man's only means of perceiving reality, his 
only source of knowledge, his only guide to action, and his basic means 
of survival.

3.  Man--every man--is an end in himself, not the means to the ends of
others.  He must exist for his own sake, neither sacrificing himself to 
others nor sacrificing others to himself.  The pursuit of his own rational 
self-interest and of his own happiness is the highest moral purpose of 
his life.

4.  The ideal political-economic system is laissez-faire capitalism.  
It is a system where men deal with one another, not as victims and 
executioners, nor as masters and slaves, but as traders, by free, 
voluntary exchange to mutual benefit.  It is a system where no man may 
obtain any values from others by resorting to physical force, and no 
man may initiate the use of physical force against others.  The 
government acts only as a policeman that protects man's rights; it uses 
physical force only in retaliation and only against those who
initiate its use, such as criminals and foreign invaders.  In a system 
of full capitalism, there should be (but historically has not yet been)
a complete separation of state and economics, in the same way and for 
the same reasons as the separate of state and church."

The Ayn Rand Lexicon (HC) p344 quoted from "Introducing Objectivism,"
TON, Aug. 1962, 35.

Chris Walker's comments:

1.  In short, Objectivism is the philosophy of rational, free men
of good character who believe in heroes and the possibility of happiness
here on earth.  Objectivism sanctions those men and women who live 
by means of reason and do it well, holding that this-worldly success
is good and that man is deserving of happiness and that there is no
evil in rationally chosen pleasures.  Objectivism is a philosophy that
CAN be practiced and which rewards men of integrity who do so. 
It does not punish integrity, unlike other philosophies or religious
beliefs which claim applicability to this world.  Neither altruism nor
Christian morality can be practiced consistently, as in the first case,
one becomes a slave and in the second, it would be necessary to join
a monastery (or a convent).
  
An Objectivist is an individual who takes Ayn Rand's philosophy seriously
and practices it to the extent of his knowledge in accordance with his
rational values.  Properly, this requires taking the facts of reality 
as the ultimate arbiter of one's conclusions with one's hierarchy of values
and chosen purposes as the basis of one's actions.  This has
the corollary of taking the terminology and methodology of Ayn Rand's
philosophy as the standard in the resolution of basic issues of life
including one's work and relationships all of which are the concern of 
philosophy.  This includes not knowingly advocating ideas, advocates of
ideas or men of poor character which repudiate this standard.  

Thus to label oneself an Objectivist is to take on a great challenge, a 
challenge to explicitly apply philosophical ideas to the art of living, 
and the responsibility of living up to that challenge.  Just has Objectivism 
had to be discovered, so each person must discover the methods appropriate 
to his chosen purposes and profession and is ultimately responsible 
for the success or failure of his actions in pursuing them.  Objectivism
provides a prerequisite of success--it is a starting point--but it is
the individual, you, who must learn to take advantage of knowledge
available in our fantastic civilization to succeed, to discover, to 
create and achieve happiness as a result.

2.  The mark of an Objectivist according to Leonard Peikoff in 
"Fact and Value" (TIA, May 1989) is one's approach to values. This includes 
fundamentally a passionate search for truth and evaluation of every 
fact of reality. This is done with regard to its relevance to one's life, 
with the acceptance of all metaphysical facts as they are and the 
ability to rationally evaluate "man-made" facts such as political 
institutions and movements.  This applies especially to a man's character 
as man is a "being a self-made soul." 

As you judge the character of others, so you must do so for your own, 
including your ideas, the methods of thinking that you use, and the
effort expended to improve these aspects of yourself. Don't look upon a 
weakness as an affront but an opportunity as self-improvement and let 
Objectivism be your guide to finding the answers.  

If you find that in your sincere efforts, Objectivism clashes with the world, 
check your premises and the methods by which you think.  Applying principles
apart from reality (rationalism) or thinking without principles 
(Empiricism) are endemic in modern culture.  Treating Objectivism as
a substitute for the Bible or as a series of memorized slogans will fail.
Peikoff addresses these false thinking methodologies in his course,
"Understanding Objectivism."

3.  With regard to the time not to call oneself an Objectivist, if you find
that you disagree with any fundamental idea of Rand's philosophy, you 
should not do so.  A fundamental idea in Rand's philosophy as I take it
is any idea if omitted or altered would repudiate or undercut Rand's
philosophy. If your disagreement is rational, you will eventually 
find that your conclusions will be similar or identical to Objectivism 
in the long run.  Until then, the proper action is to say that you find 
value in Rand's ideas, but disagree with her.  To call yourself an 
Objectivist in such a case is an act of deception.

There are those who do persist in calling themselves Objectivists 
despite strong disagreement on the relationship of facts and values, a
fundamental aspect of Rand's philosophy.  This is the issue of the
relevance of facts of reality to one's life, especially man-made facts. 
The consequence of holding the view as advocated by Kelley and others
is not being willing to evaluate a man's character on the basis of the
ideas that he advocates until he demonstrates willful irrationality. 

Metaphysical facts have value significance and are evaluated as relevant,
ie. good or bad, in the appropriate context.  That is why we normally
don't worry about sharks when we're not swimming in the ocean or
concerned about the number of leaves on a tree, but each fact could become
relevant in some context. With regard to man-made facts, ie. a man's ideas, 
these must be judged as being not only true or false, but good or evil.  
A man's ideas are a window to his soul, both in what he thinks and 
how he thinks.  Ignoring these in an individual is bad enough but with 
regard to an association of individuals, such as a political movement, is 
even worse.  Judgement of another person takes considerable effort in 
most cases, especially if that person has values to offer.  However, 
once the principle of that person's actions is identified, or the actions 
and beliefs of a collection of individuals, you cannot suddenly make 
exceptions because you feel like it, which is precisely what I have 
observed in such people. 

4. In response to a certain amount of confusion from some people with whom
I have spoken about Objectivism, Objectivists are not so-called 
"Secular Humanists."  Though there appear to be agreements in the advocacy
of reason and science in books written by Adler, LaMont and Kurtz, 
Objectivism is a philosophy of rational egoism which secular humanists
repudiate. 

II.  Who is Ayn Rand?
---------------------

Ayn Rand (1905-1982) was a Russian-born American writer.  She grew up in
St. Petersburg during the Russian Revolution and graduated from the
University of Petrograd in 1924.  As a child at the age of nine, she had
decided that she would become a writer.  Being directly exposed to the 
Soviet system, she rebelled even as a child against the doctrines and
practices of that oppressive culture.  In 1926, at the age of 21, 
she went to the United States to become a Hollywood screen writer 
and married in 1931.

She went on to write not only several screen plays but eventually several
novels including the "We the Living" (1936), the best-selling 
"The Fountainhead (1943)" and "Atlas Shrugged (1957)".  Ayn Rand 
considered her novels to belong to the school of art known as 
Romanticism as opposed to Naturalism.  Additional works include a 
novelette called "Anthem" and several plays including "Night of January 
16th."

>From the ARI biography:

  "'The Fountainhead', the story of an intransigent creator who refuses to 
surrender his integrity or his intellectual independence to a world of 
second-handers was published in 1943--after having been rejected by twelve
publishers.  It brought Ayn Rand international fame.  With the publication 
of 'Atlas Shrugged' in 1957, Ayn Rand's position in history -- both 
as novelist and philosopher -- was established.  'Atlas Shrugged' tells 
the story of what happens to the world when its most intelligent and 
productive members, the men of the mind, go on strike against the creed
of self-immolation.  This novel challenges at the root the altruist and 
philosophical ideas of the 2000-year-old Judeo-Christian tradition." 

Subsequent to "Atlas Shrugged", she published several newsletters 
including "The Objectivist Newsletter (1962-1965)", "The Objectivist 
(1966-1971)", and "The Ayn Rand Letter (1971-1976)"  All of these 
newsletters are still available in print.

In the last 20 years of her life, she published several non-fiction works
including "Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal (1966)",  "Introduction to
Objectivist Epistemology (1979)", "The Virtue of Selfishness (1964)",
"For the New Intellectual (1961)", "The Romantic Manifesto (1969)",
and "The New Left: The Anti-Industrial Revolution (1971)"  In addition, 
she appeared on radio and television talk shows, wrote editorials in such 
newspapers as the "LA Times", spoke to enthusiastic audiences at 
events sponsored by such institutions as "The Ford Hall Forum" in Boston, 
and taught and helped teach courses on her philosophy and romantic 
fiction.

After her death, the seminal "Philosophy: Who Needs It (1982)",
"The Early Ayn Rand", and "The Ayn Rand Column" were published by her
intellectual heir, executor, and closest associate Dr. Leonard Peikoff.

Ayn Rand is buried in a cemetery near Valhalla, New York.

There is some biographical information in the now out-of-print
"Who is Ayn Rand" from the early sixties.  I do not recommend any other
biographical works from the authors of this book as they were written
subsequent to Ayn Rand's death so she couldn't answer their contents,
the authors are openly hostile to Rand, and make allegations of fact that
cannot be verified independently.  

III.  Ayn Rand's Debt to Aristotle
----------------------------------

  "The only philosophical debt I can acknowledge is to Aristotle.  I most
emphatically disagree with a great many parts of his philosophy--but his
definition of the laws of logic and of the means of human knowledge is
so great an achievement that his errors are irrelevant by comparison."

"About the Author," Appendix to "Atlas Shrugged" quoted from 
"The Ayn Rand Lexicon", p344

IV.  Ayn Rand on Aristotle
--------------------------

  "Aristotle's philosophy was the intellect's Declaration of Independence.
Aristotle, the father of logic, should be given the title of the world's 
first intellectual, in the purest and noblest sense of that word.  No 
matter what remnants of Platonism did exist in Aristotle's system, his 
incomparable achievement lay in the fact that he defined the basic 
principles of a rational view of existence and of man's consciousness:  
that there is only one reality, the one which man perceives--that it 
exists as an objective absolute (which means: independently of the 
consciousness, the wishes or the feelings of any perceiver)--that the 
task of man's consciousness is to perceive, not to create, reality--that 
abstractions are man's method of integrating his sensory material--that 
man's mind is his only tool of knowledge--that A is A.
  If we consider the fact that to this day everything that makes us 
civilized beings, every rational value that we possess -- including the 
birth of science, the industrial revolution, the creation of the 
United States, even of the structure of our language -- is the result 
of Aristotle's influence, of the degree to which, explicitly or 
implicitly, men accepted his epistemological principles, we would 
have to say:  never have so many owed so much to one man."

Quoted from "For the New Intellectual, HC(20),pb(22)" from "The Ayn Rand
Lexicon", p35

V.  Was Ayn Rand a Conservative or a Libertarian?
-------------------------------------------------

  "The "libertarians"...plagiarize Ayn Rand's principle that no man may
initiate the use of physical force, and treat it as a mystically revealed,
out-of-context absolute....
   In the philosophical battle for a free society, the one crucial 
connection to be upheld is that between capitalism and reason.  The 
religious conservatives are seeking to tie capitalism to mysticism; 
the "libertarians" are tying capitalism to the whim-worshipping 
subjectivism and chaos of anarchy. To cooperate with either group is to 
betray capitalism, reason, and one's own future."

Binswanger, "The Ayn Rand Lexicon", p254 from "Q & A Department: -
Anarchism," "The Objectivist Forum", Aug. 1981, 12.

Though some thinkers discussed the relationship of force and rights,
it does not change the fact that Rand made the evil of the initation
of force and its relationship to man's means of survival--reason--
clear and explicit.  

The definitive answer to this question if provided by the article,
"Libertarianism: The Perversion of Liberty" by Peter Schwartz.  This
tract and a revised version which appears in "The Voice of Reason:
Essays on Objectivist Thought" are available at Second Renaissance
Books.  (address below)  

-----
A note:

Common cause for freedom cannot be made with Conservative or Libertarian
groups.  Conservatives observe and complain about the rampant moral
relativism taking over the world, but offer in its place a return to
Judeo-Christian values and "The Bible."  Libertarians make many statements
which appear to be pro-freedom, but the arguments that they have to 
offer for justification amount to "do your own thing."  

In my opinion, based on my personal investigations of such groups, 
many of the individuals participating in these movements
are sincere.  The fundamental failing of such people in the United
States is that most do not understand the concept of proof and often
intersperse true and often brilliant insights with other claims that 
fail to withstand even casual criticism.  Moreover, many cases made by
Conservatives are interspersed with statements that are so fantastic
as to be unbelievable, even if they were true, yet are not given 
the extraordinary proof that they require.  
 
Hence, to use any such materials in building your case for freedom must 
be done with caution.  Rand herself addressed this very same issue
in the article "What Can One Do?"  I suggest that you read this article
which is published in her non-fiction. 

Clearly then, on avowedly religious mailing lists, libertarian lists,
or conspiracy lists, I would suggest that it would undercut your case
for Objectivism to engage in philosophical debates there.  I have found
some valuable information on some of these groups, but the risk of sanction
makes participation undesirable at best.   To debate Objectivism on 
these lists trivializes your position and only teaches such people techniques
to use against other rational individuals in the future.  

Posting on other lists including alt.philosophy.objectivism or other 
philosophy lists requires caution.  Before plunging in a debate, make sure
that the people involved are truly seeking answers or are instead engaged
in word games that will consume the time that you do not have.


VI.  Where can one find out more about Ayn Rand's ideas?
--------------------------------------------------------

Ayn Rand's books and the most important works of the advocates of her
philosophy, especially "Objectivism: The Philosophy of Ayn Rand" by
Leonard Peikoff and "The Ayn Rand Lexicon" by Harry Binswanger
can be found in most metropolitan bookstores or can be ordered from
the publisher or from Second Renaissance Books.

The most complete collection of the works of major interpreters of 
Objectivism and of works which support the values of reason, individual 
achievement, and individual rights and capitalism may be found at:

Second Renaissance Books
P.O. Box 4625
Oceanside, CA 92052

For information, call 619-757-6149, or fax 619-757-1723.

For free information on Ayn Rand's ideas including the following 
pamphlets:

"Playboy's Interview with Ayn Rand"
"Philosophy of Objectivism: A Brief Summary" by Leonard Peikoff
"Man's Rights and the Nature of Government" by Ayn Rand
"Philosophy: Who Needs It?" by Ayn Rand before West Point 

and many more, please contact: 

The Ayn Rand Institute
4640 Admiralty Way, Suite 715
Marina del Rey, CA 90292

Additional sources of information about Objectivism:

The Jefferson School (TJS) (Offers weekend and two week summer seminars)
P.O. Box 2934
Laguna Hills, CA 92654

Conceptual Conferences
P.O. Box 339
New York, NY 10040

The Intellectual Activist (Publication of articles, reviews, current events)
P.O. Box 262
Lincroft, NJ 07738

Second Renaissance Conferences
130 Federal Road, Suite 56
Danbury, CT 06811

VII.  What about other electronic forums where her ideas are discussed?
----------------------------------------------------------------------- 

There are several private e-mail discussion groups on which Ayn Rand's
ideas are discussed.  

I can endorse the activities of one moderated group called 
OSG (Objectivist Study Group).  It is intended for serious 
students of Objectivism and it costs money to subscribe to it. 

To find out more, please send mail to "info@osg.com" to receive a 
standard packet of information and a contract.

For information on other moderated E-MAIL groups, please post your 
request on alt.philosophy.objectivism.    

Other public discussions on Ayn Rand's ideas occur on sci.philosophy.meta,
talk.philosophy.misc, sci.philosophy.tech and more.   Since most
of these groups are unmoderated, it is up to the reader to decide 
if a posting which is critical of Rand's ideas is basing this criticism
on fact or is based on an irrational premise or hasty generalization. 
[see disclaimer]   
 
VIII.   What about audio and video recordings of Ayn Rand and others?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Ayn Rand appeared on several TV shows including the Tonight Show, Donahue,
and others.  She spoke before West Point, before businessmen and the 
aforementioned Ford Hall Forum.  The majority of her extant recordings are
available at Second Renaissance Books.  This includes other prominent
Objectivists.

IX.   What about campus clubs?  Where can I find out how to start my own?
------------------------------------------------------------------------

An extensive list of campus clubs can be found in Jay Allen's Objectivist
Resource Guide.

The Ayn Rand Institute now supports more than 60 campus clubs throughout
the United States and Canada.  

To quote from the ARI Campus Club Manual, "Campus clubs operate independently
of ARI. We do not officially endorse or sanction any clubs. We provide
assistance to those in harmony with the principles described in our
Intellectual Charter. Our role is solely that of helper as we work together
to achieve our common goal: the advancement of Objectivism" (p. ii)

Please contact the ARI at the following address:

The Ayn Rand Institute
4640 Admiralty Way, Suite 715
Marina del Rey, CA 90292
 

X.  Bibliography of Published Articles in Academic Journals
-------------------------------------------------------------

This is bibliography of works by individuals of whom I am certain
are in agreement with the fundamental principles of Ayn Rand's
philosophy.  This bibliography contains works in academic
journals, magazines or collections of articles.  
 
Other Objectivist works are referred to in the "Reading List on 
Objectivism."

This is combines an edited version of the bibliography distributed
by Thomas Gramstad from an anonymous source and a bibliography recently 
posted on OSG by Jerry Nilson (12/11/93).  
 
An excellent source for other Objectivist works is to consult
the book catalog from Second Renaissance Books.

ARTICLES IN ACADEMIC JOURNALS

Author: Harry Binswanger
Title: Volition as Cognitive Self-Regulation
Journal: Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes
         1991, 50, 154-178

Author: Harry Binswanger
Title: Life-based Teleology and the Foundations of Ethics
Journal: The Monist, 1992,

Author: Allan Gotthelf
Title: Aristotle's Conception of Final Causality
Journal: The Review of Metaphysics, 1977, 30, 226-254

Author: George Reisman
Title: Getting Parallels Straight
Journal: Reason, June 1983

Author: John Ridpath
Title: Ayn Rand's Novels: Art or Tracts
Journal: The American Journal of Economics and Sociology, 1976, 35,
         211-17

Leonard Peikoff: 'Platonism's Inference from Logic to God', in 'International 
Studies in Philosophy', Vol. 16, p. 25-34, 1984.

Leonard Peikoff: 'Aristotle's Intuitive Induction', in 'The New Scholasticism', 
Vol. 59, p. 30-53, 1985.

Edwin Locke: 'The Contradiction of Epiphenomenalism', in 'British Journal of 
Psychology', Vol. 57, p. 203-204, 1966.

Robert Mayhew: 'Aristotle on Property', in 'Review of Metaphysics', Vol. 46, p. 
803-831, 1993.

Allan Gotthelf: 'The Place of the Good in Aristotle's Natural Teleology', in 
'The Proceedings of the Boston Colloquium on Ancient Philosophy', Vol. 4, 
p. 113-139, 1988.

Tara Smith: 'Why a Teleological Defense of Rights Needn't Yield Welfare 
Rights', in 'The Journal of Social Philosophy', Vol. 23 (3), p. 35-50, 1992.

Tara Smith: 'Rights, Friends, and Egoism', in 'The Journal of Philosophy', Vol. 
90 (3), p. 144-148, 1993.

Tara Smith: 'On Deriving Rights to Goods from Rights to Freedom', in 'Law and 
Philosophy', Vol. 11 (3), p. 217-234, 1992.

Tara Smith: 'Why Do I Love Thee? - A Response to Nozick's Account of 
Romantic Love', in 'Southwest Philosophy Review', p. 47-57, 1991.

Tara Smith: 'Moral Realism: Blackburn's Response to the Frege Objection', in 
'The Southern Journal of Philosophy', Vol. 25, p. 221-228, 1987.

ARTICLES IN MAGAZINES

Author: Leonard Peikoff
Title: Atlas Shrieked
Journal: Esquire, October, 1962

Author: Michael S. Berliner
Title: Capitalism and Selfishness
Journal: Commentary, March 1987

Author: Cynthia Peikoff
Title: Capitalism and Selfishness
Journal: Commentary, March 1987

Authors: Arthur Mode, Mike Berliner
Title: Ayn Rand (Replies to Herbert)
Journal: Book World

Ayn Rand: 'A Screen Guide For Americans', Plain Talk, Nov. 1947.

Ayn Rand: 'JFK- High Class Beatnik?', Human Events, Sept. 1960.

Ayn Rand: 'The New Left Represents an Intellectual Vacuum', New York Times 
Magazine, 17th of May 1970.

Edwin Locke: 'The Virtue of Selfishness', American Psychologist, Vol. 43 (6), 
p. 481, 1988.

Michael Berliner: 'Capitalism and Selfishness', Commentary, March 1987.

John Ridpath: 'Ayn Rand's Novels: Art or Tracts', The American Journal of 
Economics and Sociology, Vol. 35, p. 211-217, 1976.

Jerry Kirkpatrick, 'Ayn Rand's Objectivist Ethics as the Foundation of Business 
Ethics', p. 67-88, in 'Business Ethics and Common Sense', ed. Robert W. McGee, 
Quorum Books, 1992.

E
ARTICLES (OR CHAPTERS) IN BOOKS

Author: George Reisman
Title: Classical Economocs Versus The Exploitation Theory
Book: Essays in Honor of F. A. Hayek, 1984

Author: George Reisman
Title: Freedom of Opportunity, Not Equality of Opportunity
Book: Essays in Honor of Hans Sennholz, 1992

Author: George Reisman
Title:  The Toxicity of Environmentalism
Book: Rational Readings on Environmental Concerns, Edited by Jay Lehr

Author:  Richard Sanford
Title:  Being verified 
Book: Rational Readings on Environmental Concerns, Edited by Jay Lehr

XI. Reading List on Objectivism
---------------------------------

This is my reading list for learning Objectivism.  All works listed
are by Ayn Rand unless specified otherwise.  In addition, I list some
other works recommended in the past by Objectivists to broaden
your study.  Credit goes to Austin Moseley for his suggestions and
thanks to everyone else for their corrections and assistance.

For those who have little or no familiarity with philosophy, the
best introduction to Objectivism is through Ayn Rand's fiction.  
Ayn Rand was primarily a novelist.  In order to write the novels
about the kind of men worth writing about who could and should exist
in the world, she developed Objectivism to support it.  This philosophy
of hero worship captures the spirit of youth and its concomitant love
of life. 

A note on selection.  I have freely borrowed from the reading list
in the Second Renaissance Books catalog and from other sources. 
My general criterion is to point people to works whose writers
provide models of rational discourse and will enable readers to 
find the same spirit in whatever works they encounter on their own.


Ayn Rand's Novels
-----------------

"We The Living"  -- Ayn Rand considered this novel to be the ideal Romantic
                    novel.  This novel is about the destruction of the human
                    spirit under dictatorships.  The specifics are the
                    Soviet dictatorship, but it addresses all such societies.
                    It was made into a movie in Fascist Italy without 
                    permission and when the authorities finally realized 
                    its anti-authoritarian message, the movie was banned. 

"The Fountainhead" -- The leitmotif of this novel is independence, of
                    the worship of man as heroic creator of values
                    through means of the use of his own mind.  Howard
                    Roark is the hero who remains true to himself in the
                    entire novel, never allowing his work to be compromised
                    no matter the temptation.  He wins.

"Atlas Shrugged"  --This is Ayn Rand's 'magnum opus', a great novel beyond
                    ordinary greatness.  It is a novel of the role of man's
                    mind in civilization, of its enslavement to the 
                    looters who refuse to use their own mind to produce
                    the values they need to live.  The plot is in answer to
                    the question, "What if the men of the mind were to 
                    go on strike?"  Read it and find out.  

"Anthem"  --        This is a novel of the rediscovery of the most 
                    important word in all of human life, without which, 
                    true human existence is impossible.
              

Introductory Philosophical Works by Ayn Rand
--------------------------------------------

These works present basic aspects of Objectivism and discuss the
value of philosophy.  They also address the most important issues
of philosophy for everyday life.

"Philosophy:  Who Needs It?", edited by Leonard Peikoff
"For the New Intellectual" 

Basic Philosophical Essays by Ayn Rand
--------------------------------------

"The Virtue of Selfishness: A New Concept of Egoism"
"Capitalism:  The Unknown Ideal"
"The New Left:  The Anti-Industrial Revolution"
"The Romantic Manifesto" 

Introductory and Intermediate Objectivist Works
-----------------------------------------------

These works are intended for those who already know the basic
principles of Ayn Rand's ideas and are ready to flesh out their
knowledge.

"The Ayn Rand Lexicon" by Harry Binswanger
"Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology" by Ayn Rand
"Objectivism:  The Philosophy of Ayn Rand" by Leonard Peikoff
"The Ominous Parallels" by Leonard Peikoff
"The Voice of Reason:  Essays in Objectivist Thought" by Leonard Peikoff

Study Aids
----------

"A Study Guide to Leonard Peikoff's Objectivism:
   The Philosophy of Ayn Rand" by Gary Hull (Highly Recommended)

Recommended Courses/Lectures by Leonard Peikoff
-----------------------------------------------

These courses and taped lectures are currently for sale from
Second Renaissance Books.  Having heard the majority of these courses,
they are of superior quality. 

Objectivism courses:

"The Philosophy of Objectivism" -- 12 lecture introductory course presented
                                   in 1976 with Ayn Rand in the Q&A 
"Understanding Objectivism"  -- 12 Lecture course.  This is his 
                                best course to my knowledge. 
"Objectivism:  The State of the Art"  -- 6 lecture course
"Objectivism: The Philosophy of Ayn Rand" -- 15 lecture advanced course 
                                             1-6 (1990), 7-15 (1991)
"Certainty and Happiness"--achieving success in thought and action

Grammar, Rhetoric and Logic:  (This is the trivium of classical heritage)

"The Philosophy of Education" -- 5 lecture course
"Introduction to Logic"  -- 10 lecture course
"Principles of Grammar" -- 8 lecture course
"Objective Communication" -- 10 lecture course (Principles of Communication, 
                             Writing, Speaking, Arguing)  Ayn Rand in
                             Q&A on lecture 1

Polemical Presentations:
                             
"The American School:  Why Johnny Can't Think"
"Medicine: The Death of a Profession"
"Assault from the Ivory Tower"
"Religion vs. America"
"The Ominous Parallels"
"Some Notes about Tomorrow"
"Philosophy and the Real World Out There"

Misc:
                                
"My Thirty Years with Ayn Rand:  An Intellectual Memoir" 

Important Polemnical Essays
---------------------------

"Libertarianism:  The Perversion of Liberty" by Peter Schwartz
"The Toxicity of Environmentalism" by George Reisman
"Education and the Racist Road to Barbarism" by George Reisman

OTHER WORKS TO EXPAND YOUR HORIZONS
-----------------------------------

These works have been recommended in the past by Objectivists
or I have found them valuable in my own personal studies. 

Philosophy
----------

"The Basic Works of Aristotle" by Richard McKeon
"Aristotle" by John Hermann Randall, Jr. 
"A History of Western Philosophy" by W.T. Jones (in 5 volumes)
"Philosophical Issues in Aristotle's Biology" edited by Allan Gotthelf
   and James G. Lennox.
"Religion vs Man" by John Ridpath (2 lecture course)
"A History of Philosophy", Wilhelm Windelband, 2 vols., New York: Harper 
Torchbooks. (This book is out of print but it sometimes reappears in 
used book stores) 

Economics
---------

"The Government Against the Economy" by George Reisman
"Economics in One Lesson" by Henry Hazlitt
"Socialism" by Ludwig von Mises
"Human Action" by Ludwig von Mises
"Introduction to Pro-Capitalist 'Macroeconomics'" -- 6 lecture course
"Economic Sophisms"  by Frederic Bastiat
"Economic Harmonies" by Frederic Bastiat
"Planning for Freedom" by Ludwig von Mises

History
-------

"Modern Times" by Paul Johnson
"History of Christianity" by Paul Johnson
"Birth of the Modern" by Paul Johnson
"The Discoverers" by Daniel Boorstin
"The Creators" by Daniel Boorstin
"The Story of Civilization" by Will and Ariel Durant
"How the West Grew Rich" by Nathan Rosenberg and L.E. Birdzell
"John Locke's Political Philosophy" by Harry Binswanger -- 3 lecture course

Science
-------

"The Beginnings of Western Science"  David C. Lindberg
"Flim-Flam" by James Randi

Environmentalism
----------------

"Rational Readings on Environmental Concerns" edited by Jay H. Lehr
"Trashing the Planet" by Dixie Lee Ray
"Environmental Overkill" by Dixie Lee Ray
"Toxic Terror" by Elizabeth Whelan
"Panic in The Pantry" by Elizabeth Whelan and Fredrick J. Stare

Politics
--------

"The Law" by Frederic Bastiat
"Second Treatise on Civil Government" by John Locke


XII.   Major Objectivist Events
------------------------------

-The Ford Hall Forum frequently hosts Leonard Peikoff as a guest speaker.
They did so on November 7, 1993 on the topic "Modernism and Madness" 
which drew the "astonishing similarity between modern art and 
schizophrenia."  Ford Hall Forum can be reached at (617)-373-5800 for
schedules and for information on how to make donations.

-Second Renaissance Conferences will hold a two week summer conference
in July 1994.  It will take place in Secaucus, NJ.  The title of the 
conference is "Ideas for the Rational Mind."  Leonard Peikoff will be
the principal lecturer on the topic of "Reading and Writing" with 
six other lectures included with the conference package.  There are over
sixteen optional lecture courses additionally.  For more information,
write to

	Second Renaissance Conferences
	130 Federal Road, Suite 56
	Danbury, CT 06811 

XIII.  Local Events and Groups
------------------------------

The most complete list of local groups may be found on Jay Allen's list.  

-The next Texas Objectivist conference will be held in Houston in 1994.

The Hill Country Objectivist Conference held October 30-31, 1993
was a big success.  The papers and presentations were of high quality.
I anticipate the same when the Houston Objectivist Society hosts it in 1994.

-The Austin Objectivist Society (TAOS) holds monthly meetings on the third
Sunday night of each month.  "The purpose of The Austin Objectivist Society"
is to promote the understanding and increased awareness of the Objectivist
philosophy through educational activities in the Austin metropolitan 
area."  

It publishes the "GoodPremises" newsletter, not to be confused with a 
newsletter of a similar name out of Chicago, on a monthly basis.  

For membership information, please write to:

The Austin Objectivist Society
12300 Painted Bunting
Austin, TX 78726

[There are membership restrictions--Chris Walker]

XIV.  Suggestions and Corrections
---------------------------------

Please direct your suggestions, complaints, praise, and updates for this
FAQ to Chris Walker, cwalker@zycor.lgc.com

-- 
Chris Walker
cwalker@zycor.lgc.com


-- 
Chris Walker
cwalker@zycor.lgc.com
