Newsgroups: rec.scouting,rec.answers,news.answers
Path: bloom-beacon.mit.edu!news.kei.com!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!xlink.net!scsing.switch.ch!bernina!macman
From: stolz@fnalv.fnal.gov (Mike Stolz)
Subject: rec.scouting FAQ  #3: Games (2/3)
Message-ID: <scouts-games2_757739703@bernina.ethz.ch>
Followup-To: poster
Last-Modified: 93/07/14 11:15:00 CST
Keywords: games fun campfire kids scout wolf cub pack troop faq
Sender: macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener)
Supersedes: <scouts-games2_755147705@bernina.ethz.ch>
Organization: Pfadi Glockenhof, 8001 Zurich, Switzerland
Date: Wed, 5 Jan 1994 03:15:25 GMT
Approved: news-answers-request@MIT.Edu
 
Archive-Name: scouting/3_games/part2
Expires: Fri, 18 Feb 1994 03:15:03 GMT
Lines: 1181
Xref: bloom-beacon.mit.edu rec.scouting:6044 rec.answers:3574 news.answers:13724

This file contains a number of games collected on rec.scouting, misc.kids and 
scouts-l, for your pack, den or troop activities.  Due to its size, this FAQ 
has been split into 3 separate postings.

If you know a good game that hasn't been included in this FAQ,
please do all of us a favor and post it on rec.scouting.  Sending copies to

	macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener) - and/or -

	stolz@fnal.fnal.gov (Mike Stolz)

will ensure that it gets included in this file.

This file is in digested format, like all FAQ files on this newsgroup.  If 
you're using nn as newsreader, simply type 'G %" to split the digest into 
individual postings  In bn or rn, typing control-G should cause the reader to 
skip to the next posting within this file.

 **
 ** from Mike Stolz, current maintainer **
Okay folks - here goes.  I'm going to split the games listing into 3 files to
start with, and will expand to 4 as needed.  the first 2 files will be based on
the SCOUT-L.GAMES files that came from TCUBVM.BITNET.  A lot of effort went
into producing that compendium, and I intend to take advantage of it.  You will
find the updated index for SCOUTS-L about a page down from here, and also at
the top of FILE2.  Lots of folks have sent in additions that will fit nicely
into the SCOUTS-L format - there are both variations of existing games, and new
games that fit the already defined categories.  In file 3, I intend to put
'long explanation' games, along with any that don't seem to have an existing
category. This organization is a bit different from Danny's current format, the
difference being that I will sort the new additions and put them in the same
'Chapter' as the SCOUTS-L games. 

Games that have come from the net will have headers indicating who posted them 
- 
If there are no headers, the game was part of the original SCOUTS-L file. 
For U.S. readers, the SCOUTS-L games use British Scout terms.  A 'Sixer' is a
den or patrol, clothes pegs are clothes pins, and a 'bat' is a long, flat
Cricket bat. If anyone spots other terms they're not familiar with, please let
me know and I'll add it to this explanation! 

Internet: stolz@fnal.fnal.gov   Bitnet: Stolz@fnal
Snail mail: 589 Lochwood, Crystal Lake, IL, 60012, USA

------------------------------
Subject: 3_GAMES INDEX
From: stolz@fnal.fnal.gov (Mike Stolz)

******************************
file 3_GAMES_PART1.

 Subject: GAME BOOKS
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Tips and Miscellaneous items
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Games needing little or no equipment
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Wide Games

******************************
file 3_GAMES_PART2.

 Subject: Game Compendium -- Memory Games
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Pencil and Paper Games
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Party Games
 Subject: Halloween party for Cubs
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Water Games
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Games with Bats or Sticks
 Subject: More games you may wish to consider.
 Subject: Game Compendium -- One on one challenges [ACTIVITY]
 Subject: Summer Olympics games
 Subject: Winter Games

******************************
file 3_GAMES_PART3.

 Subject: Game Compendium -- Relay Games
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Strategy Games
 Subject: LONG GAMES
 Subject: Space Training Game
 Subject: Desert Survival Game
 Subject: Fire Safety Game
 Subject: Games for Pirate Theme Birthday Party
 Subject: Bop Sticks
 Subject: Christmas Games

------------------------------
Subject: Game Compendium -- Memory Games
From: LISTSERV@TCUBVM.BITNET (Listserv Archives)

**
SILHOUETTE KIMS GAME
You will need:
  *) About twelve different shaped items, a sheet or back
  *) projection screen and a slide projector or strong light
     (Note: clear bulbs are better than pearl)

A number of objects are held, one after the other, behind the screen, eg.
scissors, bulldog clip, flower.  After all the objects have been seen, a short
time is given for the lads to write down or tell to the leader, the objects that
they saw in the correct order of viewing.

**
BATTLESHIP KIMS GAME
You will need: (for each six or patrol)
  *) A table, a piece of chalk and ten items 

Each patrol gets a table set up on it's side in their corner as a barrier, so
that the other patrols can't see behind it.  On the floor they draw a 747 grid,
and mark horizontal axis A to G and vertical axis 1 to 7.  They then take ten
items and place them at random on their grid.  The patrols ar now given five
minutes to look at each others grids and try and memorize the locations of as
many items as they can.  After five minutes they each retire behind their
barricades.  Each patrol in turn fires three shots.  For a shot they must say
the name of the patrol they are firing at, the grid reference and what item is
at that grid reference.  If they are correct then they capture that item.  Each
patrol only gets 3 shots per round.  After a set number of rounds, the patrol
that has captured the most items are the winners.  Please note that this is a
memory game, no pencils and paper allowed.

**
KIMS GAME Variant
You will need: (for each six or patrol)
  *) Two bowls or buckets on chairs
  *) ten mixed items

Teams or patrols stand in single file facing the front of the hall.  At the
front of the hall facing each team is a bucket or bowl on a chair.  In each bowl
there are ten items (the same items for each team).  At the back of the hall
opposite each team is an empty bucket or bowl.  The scout leader calls out an
item and the first man in each team has to run to the front, get that item 
place it into the other bucket at the back of the hall and then run back to the
back of his team.  The first team with their man back get a point.

As you continue playing this the objects will be distributed between the front
and the back buckets.  If the scouts have good memories they will remember what
items are in what buckets.  This will save them time.  If an object is called by
the leader and it is in the back bucket then it has to be placed in the front
bucket and vice versa.  The reason for the bucket being on a chair is so that
the scouts can't look in to see what is in the bucket.

**
PATIENCE
You will need: (for each six or patrol)
  *) A suit of cards Ace to ten 
     (one pack of cards will supply four teams)

The ten cards for each team are laid out at random, face down on a table in
front of them.  One at a time the boys run up and turn over a card. If it is not
the Ace then they turn it face down again and run back to their team and the
next player has a go.  When the ace is turned up they can lay it face up at the
front of the table.  The next card needed is the two and so on. Play continues
until one team has all its cards turned face up in the correct order.

**
COMPASS SKILLS PATIENCE
You will need:
  *) Sets of cards having the compass points printed on them

This game is played the same way as the previous game, but this time the boys
have to place the cards at the correct compass position for that card.
Suggested order for laying down cards:   North,  South,
  East,  West,  North East,  South East,  South West,  North West.
  NNE,  SSW,  NNW,  SSE,  ENE,  WSW,  ESE,  WNW

**
IT'S UNDER A CUP
You will need:
  *) A number of plastic cups and
  *) objects to fit under them (e.g. a ball, a ring, a key etc.)

Two teams one each side of the hall.  Each team is numbered 1 to N with boys
with the same number on each team of similar size.  The object are placed in the
centre of the hall in a row and the plastic cups placed over them.  The leader
now calls out an object and a number.  The two boys with that number have to
rush to the row of plastic cups, find the correct cup and take the object to the
leader.  The lad who gets the object to the leader wins a point for his team.

**
RUBA DUB DUB
You will need:
  *) Twenty four 35mm film cannisters, these should be opaque and all look
     the same.  Into twelve of these you place a marble, fishing bell or
     anything that will make a noise when the cannister is shaken.

The boys sit in a circle and take it in turn to pick up two cannisters
at a time and give them a shake.  If they both rattle then a prize or point is
given to the boy who picked them.  These cannisters are then removed from the
game and the next boy has his turn.  If both cannisters do not rattle then they
are both replaced where they were picked up from and the game continues.  The
game gets more difficult as more are removed as there are then more empty ones
left in the game than ones that rattle.  You could make it more difficult by
having a larger number of containers to begin with.  You could also guild the
lilly by putting numbers on the cannisters but I have not found this to be
necessary.  You can use this as a team game, the winning team being the one
with most points or as individuals against all the rest.

**
POST OFFICE
You will need: (for each six or patrol)
  *) 2 chairs
  *) coins adding up to 50 pence

The boys stand in their patrols or sixes, in straight lines across the middle of
the hall.  In front of each patrol is a chair, this chair is the post office. 
On this chair at the beginning of the game is an assortment of coins. We use
coins that add up to 50 pence.  Each teams post office,has the same number and
value of coins.  Behind each patrol is placed another chair, this chair is the
'BUREAU DE CHANGE'.  The leader calls out a sum of money, say 20 pence.  The
front man in each team then runs to the post office and has to leave 20 pence on
the post office chair.  Any extra coins must be taken and placed on the BUREAU
DE CHANGE chair.  On finishing his move the player runs
back and joins the back of his team.  The first man back gets a point for his
team.  If a value is called which is higher than the value on the post office
chair, the boys must run to the BUREAU DE CHANGE to collect the coins they
need.  Great fun can be had by calling out 49, a lot of them will start
counting the coins out, but the smart ones soon realize that they only have to
leave one coin at the BUREAU DE CHANGE to get 49 at the post office.  Calling
out the value that is already at the post office also causes a laugh.

**
OBSTACLE COURSE IN THE DARK
You will need:
  *) Various items that will fall over easily such as skittles
  *) plastic bottles and short lengths of wood or plastic tube

Give each team the same type and number of objects.  Allocate each team a lane
down the length of the hall across which they must lay out the obstacles.  You
could mark these lanes with chairs if you wished.  When the teams have completed
their task, line them up at one end of the hall and then get them to swap lanes
with one of the other teams.  This way if they have made the obstacle too easy
then they will give this advantage away to another team. After allowing them a
minute or two to look at the lane they are in, turn out the light and get them
to walk down the lane to the other end.  The patrol leader or sixer should be
the leader for his team.  At the finish end of the hall, one of the leaders
could flash a torch on and off at random to give them a bearing.  Points are
deducted from each team for the number of obstacles they have knocked over.

------------------------------
Subject: Game Compendium -- Pencil and Paper Games
From: LISTSERV@TCUBVM.BITNET (Listserv Archives)

**
CUB 2000
You will need: (for each six or patrol)
  *) A sheet of paper fanfolded into 6 sections
  *) a pen or pencil

The cubs or beavers sit in a circle in their six.  The sixer is given the fan
folded sheet of paper and a pen.  The rest of the six close their eyes, this
makes the final result more fun.  The sixer then draws on the first section, a
hat suitable to be worn by a scout in the 21st century.  Paper is passed onto
the next cub who draws the head on the second section.  This is continued with
the shoulders body legs and feet.  Open out the paper at the end to see the
strange 21st century cub that the six have drawn.

**
MIME and/or KIM'S GAME
You will need:
  *) A sheet of paper and a pen or pencil for each cub, or for
     sixers only if you do not have enough equipment.

The cubs sit in a circle with paper and pen in front of them on the floor or
just in front of the sixer.  Akela sits in the circle with the lads and takes
imaginary objects out of a sack in front of him and mimes the object. Cubs can
either write the objects down as they are mimed, or wait until the end and then
write them all down.

Suggested items to mime:
Hammer and nails, Necklace,  Tea cup and saucer,  Teapot, Telephone,
Powder compact,  Soap and flannel, Shoes, Watch,  Hoola-hoop,  Paper clip,
Earrings, Hair spray and many more, limited only by your ingenuity.

**
PICTIONARY
You will need: (for each six or patrol)
  *) Sheets of paper and a pen or pencil

This is a game which has been commercialized in England.  One member from each
patrol comes up to the scout leader, who whispers a word or phrase to them.  The
patrol member then goes back to his patrol and attempts to draw on a sheet of
paper, what the scout leader said.  They are not allowed to give clues by
actions, speech or writing.  The first patrol to guess correctly win the point.

**
TIME TABLES
You will need: (for each six or patrol)
  *) A set of time tables 
  *) Paper and pens
  *) A prepared set of destinations and arrival times

If you go to a couple of your local travel agents, you should be able to pick up
some airline flight time tables.  If you have four patrols then you will need
five copies all the same, one for the leader and one for each of the patrols. 
You have to make up a list of destinations and times that you would like to
arrive there.  Put in some interesting ones that will need flight changes and
different airports.  You could also throw in things like certain flights only
going on certain days.  You could if you prefer, use railway or bus time tables,
but airlines will give you more exotic destinations.  This is a good training
game for teaching the youngsters how to read and use time tables.

**
ANAGRAMS
You will need:
  *) Cards with anagrams on pinned around the room
  *) pen and paper for each player or 1 per team

There are so many variations that you can try with this, for example books of
the Bible, rivers, towns, famous people.

**
CIRCLE LINE
You will need:
  *) 6 cards with lists of railway stations on them in two columns
  *) Pen and paper for each player or 1 per team

In England there is a circular underground line called would you believe it 'The
Circle Line' .  The object of the game is for each player or team to make their
way all the way round the circle line.  You start each player or team off at a
different station.  They then have to look at all the cards until they find
their station in the first column, they then have to move across horizontally on
that list to the second column which is the destination station, this they write
down on their paper.  The new station is now the one they are looking for in all
the lists in the first column.  To prevent players from cheating you can put in
a few red herrings ie stations that are not on that line and which will send
them in the wrong direction if they do not play correctly.

------------------------------
Subject: Game Compendium -- Party Games
From: LISTSERV@TCUBVM.BITNET (Listserv Archives)

**
PIRATE'S TREASURE MAP
You will need:
  *) A map drawn on a large sheet of paper
  *) small sticky labels and a pen to write names on the labels

Often you will find that at the beginning of a party where you are running the
games, not all the children have arrived when you start.  To overcome this a
game was needed that could be played by the children as they arrived.  I drew a
pirate's treasure map on a sheet of paper that I stuck to a board.  On top of
this I stuck a sheet of clear adhesive film 'FABLON'. Between each game I ask a
few children up and ask them their names.  I write their names onto small sticky
labels about the size of a thumb nail.  The children then stick these onto the
map where they think that the treasure is buried.  At the end of the games
session I turn the map around and show that I had stuck a label on the back of
the map to mark where the treasure was buried. The closest person to this wins
the prize.  If you need to pad it out a little, you can tell a short story about
the pirate coming ashore with his treasure chest, and deciding on the different
places that he might bury his treasure. This game can be used with any age
group.  Because the map is covered in plastic film you can easily peel the
labels off, you can then use the map for repeat shows.

**
SOUND EFFECTS
You will need:
  *) A tape player and a tape with sounds that you have recorded

This is another game that is good at the start of a show if not all the children
have arrived.  Borrow some sound effects records from your local library.  The
B.B.C. do quite a large selection of these records.  They are used by drama
clubs and film makers.  Record different sounds onto a tape leaving short breaks
between each sound.  Put in some easy ones such as a dog barking and chickens
clucking, but put in some hard ones as well, such as submarine asdic noises and
music boxes.  Tell the children, that you are going to play them sounds from the
television and the cinema. The first person with their hand up, will get the
prize if they can say what the sound is.  Tell them not to put their hand up
until they are certain what the sound is.  This game can be played by any age
group.  A variation on this is to use the first few notes of popular songs.

**
FIRST PERSON TO ME

This game can be used with large numbers of children.  It keeps them interested
and can play for as long as you have questions.  The object of the game is for a
child to bring you an item that you ask for.  The first child to you with that
item gets the prize.  Listed below are some examples.

 A Loose tooth
 A rose coloured shirt dress or blouse. (any colour will do)
 A picture of the queen (a coin or banknote)
 Three hands on one wrist (a watch with hands)
 A pair of white socks
 A hairclip

Tell the children to be very careful that they don't bump into anyone as they
are running up to you.  If you run out of ideas you can look to see what
different people are wearing.  You often find a child that won't join in with
the games as they never win anything.  Choose something that only they have,
this will make them want to take part.

**
BOAT OR CAR RACE
You will need: (for each six or patrol)
  *) A toy boat or car connected to a long length of string on a roller

This is an oldie but very good when you have a large group to keep amused and
interested.  You will need four toy boats or cars.  These are attached to long
lengths of twine which are wound around pieces of dowel or broom handle. 
Rotating the dowel winds on the twine and drags the toy car or boat along the
floor.  Split the group into two teams and sit each team on opposite sides of
the hall.  Choose the biggest person from each team, explaining to the children,
that these people are going to try and win points for their team.  My boats are
red, blue, green and yellow.  The first race we use the red and the blue boat. 
One team is told to shout for the red and the other team to shout for the blue. 
After the first race I change the boats for the other two boats.  I tell the
children that this is to ensure that there was no advantage, as perhaps the
boats could have been different weights.  I then run the new boats out  and we
have another race.  The children get very excited during this game, but you have
complete control.  You only have to direct the two children running the boats. 
The rest of the children are sitting at the sides cheering their boat in.

**
ISLANDS
You will need:
  *) Four different coloured skittles or bean bags
  *) Four coloured beads or balls to match the colour of the skittles
  *) A small cloth bag to keep the balls in
  *) A whistle or other noise maker, I use a siren whistle

This is a variation on musical chairs, but the kids will not realize this the
way that it is played.  Place the four coloured skittles at the four corners of
your playing area.  Tell the lads that these are islands.  When you say "GO"
they must run around the outside of the four islands in a clockwise direction,
when you shout "CHANGE DIRECTION" they must run the other way round. When you
blow the whistle, they must go and stand next to one of the islands. You do this
a couple of times with no forfeits and nobody out, then you introduce the bag
with the coloured beads.  You reach into the bag and take one out, all the boys
standing next to that colour has to do ten press-ups.  You then sort them all
running again.  This time all the lads who land on the colour you pick out of
the bag are out and have to sit in the middle (This keeps them out of the way). 
You then take away that skittle and it's matching coloured ball.  The next time
round all the lads on the chosen colour have to do a hand stand.  The next time
all the lads on the selected colour are out and sit in the middle.  You again
remove the selected skittle and it's matching coloured ball.  So you are down to
two skittles.  By this time most of the boys will be out and you just keep
playing with the two skittles until you get to a final winning boy.

**
PASS THE PARCEL UPDATED
You will needt
  *) A timer or alarm clock with a loud ring - this should be in a small box

Pass the parcel is a bit old hat but the lads will enjoy this updated version. 
A timing device with a loud alarm connected to it is passed in a box around the
circle.  The person holding the box when the alarm goes off is either out or has
to do a forfeit.  There was a toy put out on the market several years ago that
did just this.  It had some name such as "TIME BOMB" or "GRENADE" you may have
seen it.

**
THE LIMBO
You will need:
  *) A tape recorder with recorded music
  *) A dowel, flat on 1 side, to act as a bar
  *) 2 large clothes pegs or bulldog clips to balance the bar on
  *) 2 upright stands

These can be made from two pieces of dowel about one and a half metres high with
a flat wooden base to make them stand upright.  Place the two stands about four
feet apart.  Put one of the clothes pegs on each stand at about four feet from
the ground.  Balance the bar on the clothes pegs.  If one clothes peg falls off
then use two clothes pegs per stand.  Mark out the hall with four chairs and
tell the players that they must walk around the outside of all the chairs.  This
prevents them bunching up, you only want one person at a time going under the
bar.  To begin you get all the players to stand in a single line at one side of
the hall.  You show them how to go under the bar, they must lean backwards and
bend their knees to get under the bar. They must not touch the floor with their
hands and they must not knock the bar off, anyone who does so is out.  When
everyone has been under the bar once it is lowered down a few inches and the
process repeated  Prizes are give to those who can get under the bar at the
lowest setting.  Ideal for all ages, girls or boys and can be played with any
number.  All you have to do is play the music and keep lowering the bar as they
go around.

**
ANIMAL SNAP
You will need:
  *) Get several packs of animal snap type picture cards
  *) make sure you have the same number of each animal card

Distribute these cards one to each person but tell them not to look at the
picture.  On the command go they must look at their card and by making the noise
of that animal they must find all the other people in the hall with that card. 
A very noisy game ideal as an ice breaker at mixed parties.  Don't forget to get
your cards back afterwards.

There are quite a few spectator games where only a few take part but the rest
cheer the others on.  Listed below are a few of these.

**
STOP
You will need:
  *) 2 sets of large cards - there are four cards in each set
     and the letters on the cards spell  S T O P

You get up eight people and stand four on each side of you facing the audience. 
Give each team member one of the cards from their set of STOP cards. To start
with they should spell out STOP as viewed from the audience.  The idea is that
they have to rearrange themselves to spell out the word that you tell them.  The
first team to finish each word are the winners.  The words you can have are
STOP, TOPS, POST and SPOT.  There is lots of room for fun here, try telling them
to spell a word they are already lined up spelling and see what happens.

**
CLOTHES PEG PEGGING
You will need:
  *) Two lengths of rope or clothes line
  *) Coloured plastic clothes pegs

Have two small groups at the front.  This time they have to peg clothes pegs on
a length of line.  The rest of the kids cheers their team on.  Two people on
each team hold an end of the line the third person dashes to pick up the pegs
and put them on the line.  You can make it more difficult by using coloured
plastic pegs and getting them to peg them on in a certain order.  The team with
the most pegs on correctly in a given time are the winners points are deducted
for every peg that is wrong.

**
YES NO INTERLUDE
You will need:
  *) A minute timer
  *) a gong to strike when they say "YES" or "NO"

Only do this with half a dozen kids.  One at a time they have to talk to you for
a minute answering your questions.  They must not say YES or NO to any of your
questions.  If you word your questions correctly then they have to think very
quickly.  Tell them they will be out if they do not answer, if their answer does
not make sense, or if they hesitate.

**
SWITCH BOX
You will need:
  *) 3 table lamp switches push ON/push OFF type, panel mounting
  *) 1 small bulb and a holder for it
  *) A battery of the same voltage as the bulb
  *) Connecting wire
  *) A small box to fit the whole lot into

Drill holes in the top of the box for the three switches and the light.The
switches have the numbers, 1, 2 and 3 painted against them.  Wire the three
switches in series with the lamp and the battery.The battery can be fixed into
the box with a `TERRY` clip or a strip of 'VELCRO' material.  You can solder the
wires to the battery or better still, if the battery has lugs on it, use
crocodile clips.  In use, all three switches must be closed before the bulb will
light.  Get the cubs or scouts in a circle and explain to them that the box has
a brain.  By pressing the switches in the correct sequence, the brain will cause
the bulb to light.  Demonstrate by pressing the switches until the bulb lights. 
Now pick up the box, and tell them that you are going to change the program. 
Press one of the switches and put the box down again.  The bulb will now be out. 
One at a time they take it in turns to come up and press one switch.  If the
bulb lights, then they get a prize or points for their team. If the first person
to come up, presses the switch that you pressed, to switch the bulb off.  The
bulb will light and they will win.  This means that they have a one in three
chance of winning.  If however they press one of the other switches, it means
that two switches are now open and need to be closed before the bulb will light.

EXAMPLE. 1
Switch 1 closing will light the lamp.
First person presses switch 1 and wins.

EXAMPLE 2
switch 1 closing will light the lamp.
First person presses switch 2, this means that 1 and 2 are now open.
Second person presses switch 3.  All the switches are now open.
Third person presses switch 2.  1 and 3 are now open.
Fourth person presses switch 1.  Only 3 is open now.
Fifth person presses switch 3 and wins.

**
IMPROVED SWITCH BOX

Available at the present time is a range of LED's (Light Emitting Diodes) which
have a flasher circuit built into them.  These will run off any voltage between
6 and 12 volts with no series resistor.  The one that I have fitted into my
switch box in place of the lamp, is 8mm in diameter, and it has a light viewing
angle of 140 degrees.  The device is called a "SUPER BRIGHT" red LED in the
catalogue that I have.  It is also available in 5mm and 10mm sizes.  There is
also an ultra bright device, which is at least twice as bright, but the viewing
angle is only 90 degrees.  All these devices flash at a rate of about two
flashes per second and they are very bright.  I have changed the battery in my
switch box to a PP3 type 9 volt battery.  It is now a much simpler job to change
the battery, as the battery connector just pushes on. While I was rebuilding the
switch box, I wired in another switch at the side of the box for testing the
battery.  This switch is wired across the three switches that are wired in
series.  When you press this switch the l.e.d. flashes if the battery is ok.

------------------------------
Subject: Halloween party for Cubs
From: jrholman@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu (James R Holman)
Date: Tue, 20 Oct 1992 19:47:26 GMT

A game we tried that the kids really liked at Halloween was
blindfolded pumpkin carving.  no no no no no no.  NOT with knives!
(Unless your Webelos need a lot of Readyman training!)

You give the kids already inflated orange balloons and a black
magic marker, blindfold them and see how they do. You can give
prizes for the 'best', most original, worst, etc.  Then you can

**
>From: rusa@diku.dk (Bjarne Steensgaard)
Date: 20 Oct 92 21:58:24 GMT

Something that may be a bit to scary for the Cub Scouts, but is great
for the older scouts, is a "feely box" that grabs your hand!  You take
a plastic bucket; cut out a circle in the bottom, and glue a rubber
glove in its place, just like gloves in sterile boxes.

You should not blindfold people, but instead to this in an almost
place.  Have buckets with spaghetti, liver, etc, in addition to the
"grabbing" bucket.  The buckets should all be filled with water, and
the special bucket should be last.  People get a good scare when
feeling for something in the bucket, and then suddenly this something
grabs their hand and pulls down !!  The downward pulling makes the
shock even greater than just a grabbing hand.

--Bjarne Steensgaard

------------------------------
Subject: Game Compendium -- Water Games
From: LISTSERV@TCUBVM.BITNET (Listserv Archives)

**
WATER BOMB FIGHT
You will need: (for each six or patrol)
  *) An endless supply of paper squares to construct water bombs from
  *) A jug of water

Each patrol is given the same number of sheets of paper and a jug of
water.  On the word go they have to fold the papers into water bombs.  Fill
them with water and splatter the other patrols.  You will find the instructions
for water bombs in any good origami book and also in many scouting books.  This
game is best played out of doors.

**
BALLOON VOLLEY BALL
You will need:
  *) A volleyball net or a rope over which the balloons can be tossed
  *) An endless supply of balloons a quarter filled with water

This is a very messy game and is therefore ideal for hot days at camp.
Your net or  rope is stretched between two poles or trees just above head
height.  You have two teams and one balloon a quarter filled with water.  If
you put too much water into the balloons then they tend to burst too easily.
The object of the game is to lob the balloon over the net and try and soak the
opposing team.  There is a lot of strategy in this game on such things as
catching the balloon without bursting it and ways of lobbing the balloon to
make it difficult to catch.  When the balloon bursts on one side then a point
is awarded to the other side, and a new balloon is brought into play.

**
WATER BALLOON TOSS
You will need:
  *) An endless supply of balloons one-quarter filled with Water.

Players form two lines facing each other about 2 metres apart.  Players
in line 1 each toss a water balloon to opposite players in line 2.  Any players
who have a balloon burst are out.  After each balloon bursts, a new balloon is
brought into play,  both lines take one step backward and toss again.  Repeat
until only one pair of players remain.  There are on the market very tiny
balloons known as water bombs.  If you are going to use vast quantities, then
these may be more economical to buy than regular balloons.

**
WATER RACE
You will need:
  *) A bucket of water, a table spoon, and a plastic drinking  cup

Form the players into teams (number and size of teams depends on number
of players available).  players form parallel lines.  Lead player of each line
has a bucket of water next to him and a table spoon in his hand.  At some
distance (10 - 30 meters) from each line is a drinking cup sitting on the
ground.  Lead player gets a spoonful of water and quickly takes (walk or run)
the water to the cup and dumps it in.  He then RUNS back to his line and hands
the spoon to the next player in the line who is now the lead player.  The
former lead player goes to the end of the line.  The whole process is repeated
until one team fills it's cup to overflowing.

**

TILT
You will need: (for each six or patrol)
  *) A billy can  half filled with water 
  *) An aluminium foil cake container 
  *) 1 Alka-Seltzer tablet 

For each patrol, put an Alka-Seltzer tablets in each foil cake dish and
then float one cake dish in each patrols billy can.  The patrols must now
transport the billycan through an obstacle course without the tablet getting
wet or falling into the  water.  They are not allowed to touch the foil disk or
the tablet.  The patrols could either carry the billy cans by their handles, or
if you are feeling very mean, you could get them to pick them up between two
poles.

**
WATER PISTOL FIGHT
You will need: (for each six player)
  *) A water pistol or a washing up liquid squeezy bottle 
  *) A flack jacket made from a double sheet of newspaper with a hole in the 
     centre for the players head to go through
   *) A supply of water

This game should be played out of doors and could come into the wide
game category.  The trouble with shooting type games, is knowing when someone
has been hit.  This is the object of the newspaper flack jackets.  Any hits on
the jacket will be easily visible.  Any players with wet patches on their flack
jackets, are not allowed to fire on an opponent and must return to their home
base for a replacement flack jacket.  The team that has the most dry flack
jackets at the end of the game are the winners.  Obviously you can't use this
idea if it is raining.

**
BUCKET LINE
You will need: (for each six or patrol)
  *) 2 buckets, one filled with water
  *) A supply of paper or plastic cups

This is a great game for hot days on camp.  Teams stand in lines.  They
have a bucket full of water at the front of the line and an empty bucket at the
rear.  The object of the game is to transfer the water from the front bucket to
the rear bucket.  To do this the team members must pass the cups of water over
their heads to the person behind.  Empty cups must be passed back to the front
in the same fashion.  To play the game fairly you could weigh the buckets at
the start and finish to see how much water has been lost.  Penalty points could
then be taken into account when working out the winning team.

------------------------------
Subject: Game Compendium -- Games with Bats or Sticks
From: LISTSERV@TCUBVM.BITNET (Listserv Archives)

**
HOCKEY
You will need:
  *) 6 hockey sticks and a block of sponge rubber as the puck

The troop is split into two teams, and each team numbers off from 1 to
15, or however many scouts there are.  One hockey stick is placed in each goal
mouth, the other four are placed, two each side of the centre line.  Instead
of a ball, we use a small sponge rubber block.  A kitchen scourer pad is about
the right size.  We have found that it is better than a ball for indoor use, it
doesn't roll too far and doesn't cause any damage.  This is placed in the
centre at the start of each game.  No sticks may be raised above ankle height
during play to reduce accidents, any player doing so has committed a foul.  The
scout leader calls out three numbers, eg. 1,2 and 3.  The first number called
is the goalkeeper.  The second number is the defender, and the third number
called is the attacker.  The scouts from each team with those numbers, run and
pick up their sticks and try to get the sponge into the opposite teams goal.

The goal keepers are not allowed out of their goal areas, but they are allowed
to pick up the sponge or kick the ball.  Any scouts committing a foul of any
sort, have to spend 30 seconds in the Sin bin.  The game continues until a goal
is scored.  The sticks and the sponge puck, are then replaced in their starting
positions, and three new numbers are called.  We continue playing, until each
scout has played in all three positions.  We also play another version of this
game using only four sticks.  In this game we have rush goalies, where the
goalie can come out of his area.  This version is also a very fast game.  When
we play this version we usually put one of the leaders on each team.  Every so
often we call out the leaders number,  as either the goal keeper or the
attacker.  We therefore have a leader and a scout on each side.

**
2 BALL HOCKEY GAME
You will need:
  *) 2 hockey sticks
  *) 2 balls or sponge pucks
  *) 4 chairs
  *) 6 skittles or liquid dishwashing soap squeeze bottles.

Two equal sized numbered teams on each side of the hall.  Two chairs each
end for a goal, with a hockey stick and puck in each goal mouth.  A line of
skittles between each goal mouth.  When a number is called, the two scouts with
that number race to their goal mouth, pick up the stick and then dribble the
puck between the skittles slalom fashion until they reach the end of the line
where they can shoot at the opposing teams goal.

**
CROCKER
You will need:
  *) 2 stumps a yard apart for the wicket
  *) A stump for the bowler 8 yards in front of the wicket
  *) A stump 7 yards to the left of the wicket to run round
  *) A large ball such as a football
  *) A baseball bat or rounders bat

The ball must be bowled under arm from the bowlers stump.  The batsman
must run round the running round stump, every time he hits the ball in front of
the wicket.  The bowler can bowl as soon as the ball is returned to him.  The
batsman is out if the ball passes between the wicket stumps, it hits his legs
twice (leg before wicket) or if he is caught out, in front of or behind the
wicket.  To speed the game up, you could make the whole team out if someone is
caught out.

**
PANCAKE RACE
You will need:
  *) A bat, frying pan or tennis racket 
  *) a ball or frisbee

Half of each team stand at one end of the course and half at the other
end.  The first player has to run to the other end and give the frying pan to
the first man at the other end who runs back with it.  This is continued until
each player has run the number of times the leader decides.  On each run the
frisbee or ball must be tossed and caught twice without dropping it.  If the
player drops it on the floor they must go back to where they started from and
do their run again.  On pancake day use real pancakes.

**
FRENCH CRICKET
You will need:
  *) A cricket bat or baseball bat
  *) a tennis ball

All players form a circle and the batsman stands in the centre of the
circle facing the player who has the ball first.  The player with the ball can
bowl under arm at the batsmans legs or pass the ball to another player around
the circle to bowl.  The object of the game is to hit the batsmans legs.  The
batsman must stay facing the man who first had the ball, but he is allowed to
move the bat around him to protect his legs.  When the batsmans legs are hit,
he swaps places with the player who bowled the ball.

**
NO BOWLER CRICKET

Set up as for any other cricket type of game, but in this variant there
is no bowler.  In this version the batsman has to balance the ball on his bat,
flip the ball in the air and then hit it.  The batsman must run if he hits the
ball or not.  Any fielding team player can stump the batsman if he is not at
his wicket or catch him out.  The batsman may also be out if he drops the ball
onto his own wicket.  When a batsman is out a new batsman, if one is available
takes his place.  When all batsmen are out then teams change over from fielders
to batters.

------------------------------
Subject: More games you may wish to consider.
From: Jack W. Weinmann <bk233@CLEVELAND.FREENET.EDU>

**
DONKEY RACE

Two boys straddle a broomstick, back to back.  On signal, one runs forward
and the other runs backwards about 50 ft.  They then run back to the
starting line, but this time they change positions (forward becomes
backward runner) then the next two team members go.

**
FOOTBALL GAME

One team gets on each side of a table.  Each side tries to blow a ping-pong
ball off the opponents' side of the table.

**
EATING RACE

Give each boy two double crackers.  The boy who can eat them all and
whistle, or blow up a balloon wins.

**
FIFTY YARD SWIM

Each boy hops on one foot carrying a paper cup of water.  First one over
the finish line wins.  (Could also be done as a relay.)

**
DODGE BALL

Divide boys into two teams.  One team makes a circle and the other team
stands inside it.  The boys forming the circle throw a large ball at the
boys inside the circle, who are running around trying not to be hit.  The
inside boys may not catch the ball.  A ball hitting a boy on the head does
not count.  Only boys in the outside circle may catch and throw the  ball.
Boys who are hit join the outside circle and try to hit the inside boys.

**
CENTIPEDES

Divide the boys into two teams.  Establish two lines about fifty to one
hundred feet apart.  Line the two teams up on the starting line.  Have the
first four (three or five if needed) boys in each line straddle a
broomstick and with their left hand grasp the stick.  On signal the
centipedes race to the far line, turn around and race back to the finish
line.  The centipede may only advance when all four boys are holding the
broomstick.  Then the next four boys form a centipede and continue the
relay.

**
POTATO JUMP RACE

Establish a start and a finish line.  Line the boys up on the starting
line.  Give each boy a potato (ping-pong ball, balloon, etc.) to put
between his knees.  On "Go" see who can jump to the finish line first
without dropping the potato. (May also be done as a relay.)

**
CLOTHESPIN RELAY

Divide into teams.  Each team member must run from the starting line to a
team bottle placed a distance away, attempt to drop a wooden clothes pin
into the bottle  (Each boy has only one attempt to get the clothes pin in
the bottle) and run back to tag the next team member, who then repeats the
action.
The rules are to hold the clothespin with a straight arm at shoulder height
or with a bent arm at waist height (as long as all do it the same way.
When all the teams are done the team with the most clothespins in their
bottle wins the game.

**
NAIL DRIVING RELAY

Stand one 2x4 block for each team on edge and start two or three 16 penny nails
to the same height in the edge.  Place the blocks about fifteen feet from
the starting line and put a hammer next to each of the blocks.  On "GO!" one
boy from each team races to the block, picks up the hammer, and swings ONE
blow to drive the nail into the block.  He then lays the hammer down and
returns to his team, tagging the next boy in the relay.  The race
continues, with each boy in turn going as many times as it takes for one
team to drive all of its nails flush into the block.  Be ready to
straighten bent nails.

**
DISTANCE CLOVE HITCH

Using a very long rope and either a tree or a pole, the object of this game
is to tie a clove hitch around the tree (pole) without getting near the
tree.  Draw a circle around the object that the knot is to be tied to and
tell the boys that they must not go inside that circle.
The knot can be tied, but only through the cooperation and teamwork of the
two boys.  (Hint: One boy is a runner and the other stands in one spot.)
We did this at a Loggers Day for the Boy Scouts and it was as much, if not
more fun for the adults to try it as it was for the boys.  It's not
anywhere as easy as it sounds ---- TRY IT, YOU'LL SEE FOR YOURSELF ... 8-)

I must also thank Indian Nations Council for most of the above games, as
well as those of my previous post to the list.

------------------------------
Subject: Game Compendium -- One on one challenges [ACTIVITY]
From: gjh@ukc.ac.uk (G.J.Harewood)
Date: 9 Jan 93 16:39:22 GMT

I shall refer to the two people from time to time as Alan and Bertie (my old
math teacher's terminology. For reference there were also Charlie, Dick, Edward
and Freddie.)  I prefer to use these challenges with paired off Patrols if
possible, PL vs PL, APL vs APL and so on.

**
ARM WRESTLING

Easy enough; it can be done lying on the floor, so you don't need a table.
You're supposed to keep your elbows together and hold hands so that your
thumb muscle is in the other person's palm.

**
TRACTORS/TANKS

Here the pair is working together to get from one end of the hall to the other
in the shortest time. Alan lies on the floor on his back.
Bertie stands facing him with his feet either side of the first person's
head; Alan grasps Bertie's feet around the ankles. Alan then lifts his legs
up in the air, and Berties grasps Alan's ankles in much the same way.

It should now be possible for Bertie to dive forward, tucking his
head in, and end up with his back on the floor beyond Alan thus reversing
their positions. Repeat until you reach the finishing line.
And you know the best part is that is really doesn't hurt if you do it right.
It requires a little faith and tuition, but do dive properly, never let go
of the other guy's ankles and tuck your head in!

**
ARM KNOCKOUT

Alan and Bertie face each other on the floor, press up style. Feet should
be together and bodies should not be bent.  The object is to knock out
the other guy's arms and thus make him collapse - you may not grab the
other guys arm with an open hand. Clearly the best way to do
this is to fake him out and knock his one arm out when his other arms is
trying to knock your wrong arm out of the way. Got that? Terrific.
This is particularly painful with short sleeves.

**
BACKLIFT

Anne and Brian (variety...) stand back to back and interlock arms at the
elbows. On the word `Go', each has to attempt, by leaning forward, to be
the first to lift the other clear of the ground. You'll want to try to
match heights quite well for this one.

**
LEG PULL

I would organize this one with all the pairs of boys down the long
axis of the hall; Alans will have their backs to one long wall, Berties
with have their backs to the other long wall. OK. Good.
Now each person lifts his left leg in the air and holds onto his partners
left leg. Upon a suitable command, each player has to hop backwards trying
to pull his partner with him. The one to touch his back on his own wall (or
to corss a line - safer) wins.

**
SLAPS

This one comes from the playground and you may be a little wary to encourage
your little angels into such violence, but here we go.  You should probably
slip a coin in each case to see who goes first, but we shall assume Alan
goes first.

Each player holds his hands together in a prayer position, such that
his fingers are pointing at the other player in front of him and his hands
are at chest height.  Some suggest that the two players hands should be
close enough that fingertips are touching and this can be enforced.
Since Alan is going first, he will be attacking. (:-) This involves his
moving one of his hands and swinging it so as the slap Berties hand, for
example Alan may decide to use his right hand, in which case he would slap
Bertie's left hand.

Bertie's role in this is to try to remove his hands, and so foil Alan's
swipe. Bertie however may not move his hands until Alan's fingertips have
broken apart; if Alan successfully fakes Bertie into doing so, then Bertie
is required to hold his hands in place while Alan exercises his right to
a free slap. This can inevitably be somewhat harder than combat slaps as
preparation time is available. It is observed that players wishing to retain
friendship with their opposition do not necessarily slap any harder here than
at any other time.

So far Bertie has done rather badly out of the arrangement. However
a further important rule is thus; if Bertie successfully removes his hands
entirely and Alan thus misses, play changes over such that Bertie is now
attacking Alan.

The game finishes when one of the players submits to the other and
admits defeat. This is or course subjective.

Slaps is an excellent spectator sport, particularly in watching the colour
of their hands. My campers and PFC Summer camp picked this game up rather
slowly at first (I noted this softness in general in American kids), but
enjoyed in immensely once taught.

**
CHINESE LADDERS

This games only belongs here insofar as the boys are likely already arranged
in the right format to play it.  The should sit down the length of the hall
facing their partners, with their feet touching those of their partners.

+-------------+
|             |
|   O== ==O   |
|   O== ==O   |
|   O== ==O   |
|   O== ==O   |
|   O== ==O   |
|   O== ==O   |
|             |
+-------------+

...like so. Starting at the top end of the diagram, upon command, the boys
jump up, and run down the hall over the legs of their team (who may not
move those legs!) and then touch the end of the hall. They run back around
the outside, touch the top wall, and then make their way over any legs back
to their place, whence the next boy may do the same. It's a race.

Note the way I have described it so that each boy must sit down beyond
the next person in his team; this helps prevent cheating by starting
early.

This game can be made more interesting by providing simple obstacles
around the two outside edges of the hall, eg car tyres to get through,
turned gym benches to walk along, or chairs to go under.

**
INDIAN LEG WRESTLING
>From: kdc5072@ultb.isc.rit.edu (Kevin D. Colagio)
Date: Sat, 9 Jan 1993 19:33:43 GMT

Picture first: (laying on the floor)

  Person A (Jim)
   ]==<>O     ( [] = feet,  == = legs)

   O<>==[     ( <> = body    O = head)
  Person B (Tom)

Jim and Tom (with the inside hand) grab the other persons forearm.  This
will cause the (roughly) pivot point.  A count of 1, 2 is given, and on
each number the inside leg is raised to the vertical position.  On the count
of 3, the legs are interlocked at the knees.

The Objective is to get you opponent to turn from the original starting
position.  It is kind of hard to explain, but if you get a partner and try
it, you will see what I mean.

------------------------------
Subject: Summer Olympics games
From: Peter Van Houten <Peter_Van_Houten@SIMULACRUM.WV.TEK.COM>

Here's a brief description of the games we'll be using in our Summer Olympics.

1)  Water Relay race -- Transport water from point A to point B holding
water can above head.  Water can has small nail holes in bottom edge
resulting in a shower effect on the carrier.  Team that has the most water
average per den wins.

2)  Obstacle Course -- Standard obstacle type course described in Ideas
book, with the addition of slip N slide water slide, and Rope swing over
small swimming pool.  Best den average through course wins.

3)  Electric Isotope -- Combined teamwork to remove coffee can from center
of circle using ropes tied to a small inner-tube.  Boys cannot cross rope
circle.  Best time wins.

4)  Water Balloon Sling Shot Catch -- Using a large slingshot made from
surgical tubing and a inner tube cup, three boys will launch the water
balloons toward the objective.  The objective is three boys holding a small
plastic swimming pool, who will try and catch the water balloons.  The team
with the most catchs wins.

5)  4x4 Races -- Using two 4x4"s (6 ft lengths) with robes tied every 12
inches, six boys standing on the 4x4 will attempt to lift and walk a short
distance.  Requires teamwork and cooperative effort.  Fastest time wins.

------------------------------
Subject: Winter Games
From: hayesj@rintintin.Colorado.EDU (HAYES JAMES MICHAEL JR)
Date: Wed, 25 Nov 1992 22:56:08 GMT

THE SNOW SNAKE GAME

Native American winter game, reached highest levels of sophistication among the
nations and tribes near the Great Lakes. Seneca tribe of the Iroquois Nation
called it Gawasa, I believe. (Also the name of the oldest winter training
program in the BSA I believe, now well over 50.  In the Land of the Oneidas
council upstate New York) 

On a long, 1/4 mile or more , level surface, build a long pile of snow, 2 feet
high, 2 feet wide.  This will occupy a winter camporee of about 100 scouts for
an hour or so.  Make a V shaped trough in the pile, smooth and ice it
thoroughly. 

All contestants have previously carved a snow snake.  It should be 5 to 7 feet
long, about 1 1/2 inches high at the 2 to 4 inch long head.  The eyes of the
snake are where it is weighted.  The snake should never be wider than 3/4 inch
and is usually only a 1/2 inch high, behind the head.  The bottom is rounded,
the top, behind the head is flat.  The underside of the head should curve up
like a ski. Decorations and carvings should be done on the non-sliding
surfaces. 

The snow snake is held in the throwing hand with the index finger at the end of
the snake, like a sling.  The snake is supported with the non throwing hand
during a running head start.  The arm movement is a crass between a baseball
side-arm pitch and a bowling delivery. 

Using these directions, at the defunct Iroquois Council's 1973 Gawasa, a 14
year old scout threw a snow snake more than 1/4 mile down the trough.  I have
seen the Huron Nation build troughs on Lake Michigan over 3 miles long, and one
year saw a television report of a Huron throwing a snow snake over 2 miles down
a trough ( about 1978 ) 

The younger scouts get really impressed when they see what they are capable of.

------------------------------
>From: gandersn@unixg.ubc.ca (George HN Anderson)

**
MORE WINTER GAMES

I have seen all sorts of things done at winter camps, and while I have no
specific suggestions as to games, there are variations you can use on other
sports/games, such as: Golf (use tennis balls coffee cans and expect to lose
a few balls), volleyball (careful, the ball gets quite hard, but playing this
game knee or waist deep in powder is not to be missed.), campfire building
and so on. As I type this I remember building kitchen areas with tables and 
seats by digging into the snow. Wide games are a lot of fun in the snow (see
other thread) and I imagine "stalker" would be trickier on snowshoes...
One winter camp here in BC (Rovent for you BC'ers who have seen a lot of this
before) also features a gateway contest and snow-sculpture contest.

In general I think that you can do a lot of things at a winter camp that
you can do in the summer, you just have to remember to stay dry. One final
note, Hot Chocolate tastes GREAT at -20 C!!! Enjoy!

------------------------------
End of part 2, File '3_games'


