Newsgroups: rec.scouting,rec.answers,news.answers
Path: bloom-beacon.mit.edu!xlink.net!scsing.switch.ch!bernina!macman
From: stolz@fnalv.fnal.gov (Mike Stolz)
Subject: rec.scouting FAQ  #3: Games (1/3)
Message-ID: <scouts-games1_757739703@bernina.ethz.ch>
Followup-To: poster
Last-Modified: 93/07/14 11:15:00 CST
Keywords: games fun campfire kids scout wolf cub pack troop faq
Sender: macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener)
Supersedes: <scouts-games1_755147705@bernina.ethz.ch>
Organization: Pfadi Glockenhof, 8001 Zurich, Switzerland
Date: Wed, 5 Jan 1994 03:15:13 GMT
Approved: news-answers-request@MIT.Edu
 
Archive-Name: scouting/3_games/part1
Expires: Fri, 18 Feb 1994 03:15:03 GMT
Lines: 1102
Xref: bloom-beacon.mit.edu rec.scouting:6043 rec.answers:3573 news.answers:13723

This file contains a number of games collected on rec.scouting, misc.kids and 
scouts-l, for your pack, den or troop activities.  Due to its size, this FAQ 
has been split into 3 separate postings.

If you know a good game that hasn't been included in this FAQ,
please do all of us a favor and post it on rec.scouting.  Sending copies to

	macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener) - and/or -

	stolz@fnal.fnal.gov (Mike Stolz)

will ensure that it gets included in this file.

This file is in digested format, like all FAQ files on this newsgroup.  If 
you're using nn as newsreader, simply type 'G %" to split the digest into 
individual postings  In bn or rn, typing control-G should cause the reader to 
skip to the next posting within this file.

 **
 ** from Mike Stolz, current maintainer **
Okay folks - here goes.  I'm going to split the games listing into 3 files to
start with, and will expand to 4 as needed.  the first 2 files will be based on
the SCOUT-L.GAMES files that came from TCUBVM.BITNET.  A lot of effort went
into producing that compendium, and I intend to take advantage of it.  You will
find the updated index for SCOUTS-L about a page down from here, and also at
the top of FILE2.  Lots of folks have sent in additions that will fit nicely
into the SCOUTS-L format - there are both variations of existing games, and new
games that fit the already defined categories.  In file 3, I intend to put
'long explanation' games, along with any that don't seem to have an existing
category. This organization is a bit different from Danny's current format, the
difference being that I will sort the new additions and put them in the same
'Chapter' as the SCOUTS-L games. 

Games that have come from the net will have headers indicating who posted them 
- 
If there are no headers, the game was part of the original SCOUTS-L file.  For
U.S. readers, the SCOUTS-L games use British Scout terms.  A 'Sixer' is a den
or patrol, clothes pegs are clothes pins, and a 'bat' is a long, flat Cricket
bat. If anyone spots other terms they're not familiar with, please let me know
and I'll add it to this explanation! 

Internet: stolz@fnal.fnal.gov   Bitnet: Stolz@fnal
Snail mail: 589 Lochwood, Crystal Lake, IL, 60012, USA

------------------------------
Subject: 3_GAMES INDEX
From: stolz@fnal.fnal.gov (Mike Stolz)

******************************
file 3_GAMES_PART1.

 Subject: GAME BOOKS
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Tips and Miscellaneous items
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Games needing little or no equipment
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Wide Games

******************************
file 3_GAMES_PART2.

 Subject: Game Compendium -- Memory Games
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Pencil and Paper Games
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Party Games
 Subject: Halloween party for Cubs
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Water Games
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Games with Bats or Sticks
 Subject: More games you may wish to consider.
 Subject: Game Compendium -- One on one challenges [ACTIVITY]
 Subject: Summer Olympics games
 Subject: Winter Games

******************************
file 3_GAMES_PART3.

 Subject: Game Compendium -- Relay Games
 Subject: Game Compendium -- Strategy Games
 Subject: LONG GAMES
 Subject: Space Training Game
 Subject: Desert Survival Game
 Subject: Fire Safety Game
 Subject: Games for Pirate Theme Birthday Party
 Subject: Bop Sticks
 Subject: Christmas Games

------------------------------
Subject: GAME BOOKS
From: macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener)
Date: Fri, 15 Sep 1992 12:00:00 GMT

The "BSA Cub Scout Leader How-To Book"  It is built to help the cub scout pack 
and den leaders running programs that kids enjoy  A section of 50 pages is 
dedicated to games  ISBN 0-8395-3831-6.

**
>From: viking@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu (Jon W. Backstrom)
Date: 1 Apr 92 15:00:14 GMT

GSUSA publishes a book called "Games for Girl Scouts" which has helped me out in 
a pinch.  The book is divided into sections such as "Travel Games", "Quiet 
Indoor Games", "Relays", etc.  I believe it only costs 11 US dollars, and is 
available through the office of most Girl Scout councils.  If anyone outside of 
the US is interested in getting copies of it, I'd be willing to act as a 3rd 
party.  I don't know how easy it would be for someone in another country to get 
a GS council office to ship them a book!  I wish I could give you more info on 
the book and some examples of games, but one of the girls in my troop borrowed 
it (that should tell you something--they love it!).

This book can be ordered directly from the National Equipment Service.
The Address is:

Girl Scouts of the U.S.A
National Equipment Service
830 Third Avenue
New York, NY 10022
Phone: 212-940-7655 (customer service only..no orders)

The item number is:  20-902  Games for Girl Scouts.  $6.00

Overseas delivery should include estimated shipping charges with payment.
Remittance in US funds only, checks drawn on US banks only.  Master Card or 
Visa.  Prepayment required.  No CODs.

**
>From: stolz@fnal.fnal.gov (Mike Stolz)
Date: 15-FEB-1993

I don't know how useful this info is, but I have a very nice little hardcover 
book called "Indoor Games for Scouts".  Unfortunately, it was published in 1951, 
and mine is the 6th printing (1965).  Whether it's still available seems 
unlikely.  This is a British book, part of 'The New "GILCRAFT" series - Number 
Two'.  The publisher is C Arthur Pearson Ltd., Tower House, Southhampton St, 
Strand London.  If anyone discovers that this book IS still available, please 
contact me at the above address.

------------------------------
Subject: Game Compendium -- Tips and Miscellaneous items
From: LISTSERV@TCUBVM.BITNET (Listserv Archives)

**
SIN BIN

It is often a problem in games where the people who are out lose interest in the 
game and start to mess about.  The Sin Bin gets over this problem very nicely.  
Somewhere in the hall you put six chairs in a line, this is the Sin Bin.  As 
each person is out they go and sit in the first vacant chair in the line.  When 
the line of chairs is filled up, the next person out changes places with the 
first person who was out who then goes back into the game.  This can be 
continued for as long as the games last and keeps the boys interested in the 
games.

**
HOW TO GET EQUAL SIZE/ WEIGHT TEAMS

In many games where there are two teams, it is a good idea if opponents
are similar sizes.  An easy way of achieving this is given below:

1. Get all the lads to line up at one side of the hall, tallest at the left

shortest to the right.
2. Tell the lads to count off in twos down the line.
3. Get all the number two's to take two steps forward.
4. You now have two teams, get each team to count off left to right 1 to N.
5. Tell team 2 to walk in a line anti-clockwise around the hall until they

are lined up along the opposite wall of the hall.

You will now have two teams of boys where each number on one team has an
opponent on the other team of a similar size.  Another advantage of this
system is that if lads have to race to the center, they will have an equal
distance to run.

**
LEADERS ARE FRAGILE

Please try not to get involved with actually playing the games.  Although we as 
leaders are probably a lot bigger than the lads, we are also more fragile.  By 
this I don't mean that we are all a load of old codgers, but we don't heal as 
quickly and our bones are more brittle.  TAKE CARE!!!!!

**
GIVING OUT INSTRUCTIONS

You will find that prior to starting a game, it will help if you get
the lads to sit down when giving the instructions on how the game is to be
played.  This ensures that they are not walking about or looking somewhere
else, so they are more likely to be listening to what you are saying.

**
EMERGENCY GAMES BOX

Over the years this has proved to be a real blessing.  My box is a
small plastic toolbox.  In this box I have an assortment of bits and pieces
with which I can make up games and other activities at very short notice.
Listed below is a list of items that you could put together to make a similar
emergency games box.

A large bag of elastic bands (rubber bands).
Boxes of chalk, white and coloured.
4 candles or night lights, 1 per patrol.
Boxes of safety matches.
A miniature cricket bat, wicket and small soft ball for indoor cricket.
Ball point pens.
Markers or felt tip pens.
Short lengths of soft white rope with the ends whipped for knotting games.
Round balloons.
Pipe cleaners.
A reel of cotton for making trip lines for minefields.
Roll of sticky tape.
Blu-Tak or similar for sticking things to walls.
A couple of large dice.
Blank cards or small sheets of paper for writing instructions.
Box of thumb tacks or drawing pins.
A small torch (flashlight) with spare bulb and rechargeable batteries.
4 small pairs of scissors.
A pack of playing cards.
A packet of Alka-Seltzer tablets or similar.
Various whistles and noise makers.
Paper clips
Safety pins
4 triangular bandages

>From Mike Stolz: I also have a game box.  Some of my items include:

4 orange plastic 'Track cones' (highway departments also use these)
An assortment of balls (soccer, basket, Nerf football, etc)
Assorted balloons

Cloth strips in 3 colors
 25 strips (each) are 3 inches wide and 18 inches long
    (great for arm bands or blindfolds)
  5 strips are 6 inches wide, with an overhand knot in the middle
    (great for 'Bacon', or 'Capture' flags)

**
MOTION DETECTORS

It is often useful to know when an object has been moved beyond a
certain amount or with what severity it has been moved.  There are many ways of
doing this some of these are listed below:

1. An oblong tobacco tin with a layer of paper punch chads sprinkled in the
bottom.  A thin layer of something sticky such as syrup is smeared on the
underside of the lid and the lid placed on the tin.  If the tin is tipped over
or subjected to violent movements, some of the bits of papers will stick to the
lid.  Penalty points may then be deducted for the number of chads that are
stuck to the lid of the tin.

2. A mercury tilt switch can be connected in series with a small electro-
magnetic relay and a battery.  There should be a set of hold on contacts on the 
relay.  These should be connected across the mercury switch, so that when there 
is even a brief connection of the mercury switch, the relay will hold itself on 
through it's hold on contacts.  When the relay actuates it could also be wired 
to sound a buzzer or switch a light on.  As an alternative to a mercury switch 
you could have a simple hanging metal rod or pendulum within a metal ring.  Any 
severe movement would cause the pendulum to touch the metal ring and complete 
the circuit.  There are available on the surplus market re-settable electro-
magnetic counters, you could use one of these in place of your relay and it 
would count the number of times that the device had been moved.

3. A number of small ball bearings on a dish inside a box.  Any slight movement 
will cause the balls to move.  Severe movements will cause the balls to roll off 
the dish.  Penalty points are taken off for every ball off the dish.

4. When laying out obstacle courses or minefields, it is nice to have trip
lines that will operate switches to set off lamps, buzzers etc.  A simple but
effective switch for this can be made from a spring loaded wooden clothes peg.
A metal drawing pin or thumb tack is pushed into the inside of each jaw and a
wire is connected to each one.  The heads of the drawing pins are the switch
contacts.  A piece of card connected to your trip line is pushed between the
contacts to open the switch.  When a player snags your trip line, the card is
pulled from the jaws of the clothes peg and the circuit is made.  How you fix
the clothes pegs is left for you to decide.

**
PRESSURE PAD

What devious people we leaders are, but isn't it fun.  How about pressure pad 
switches to put on the floor which will switch on a circuit when stepped on.  
You can make these very easily and can throw them away when the game is 
finished.  All you need is two sheets of aluminium foil about the size of a 
standard sheet of paper for each switch and some paper or plastic drinking 
straws.  The aluminium foil should be as flat as possible.  Connect a wire to 
each sheet using a small crocodile clip or paper clip.  Lay one sheet on the 
ground where it is likely to be stepped on.  On top of this lay some drinking 
straws, these are to keep the two sheets apart.  Lay the second sheet on top of 
the straws.  Wires can be taped to the floor or covered with carpet.  [Connect 
the wires to a battery and small light bulb.  when the sheets of aluminum foil 
touch each other, the bulb should light up.]

------------------------------
Subject: Game Compendium -- Games needing little or no equipment
From: LISTSERV@TCUBVM.BITNET (Listserv Archives)

**
SPEAK AND DO THE OPPOSITE

I couldn't think of a better title for this, but it is fun to play both for kids 
and adults.  Each team sends a person to challenge a member of another team.  
The person challenging says something like "I AM PATTING MY HEAD" but in fact 
they are rubbing their tummy.  The person being challenged has to say in reply 
"I AM RUBBING MY TUMMY" and at the same time be patting their head.  If they 
fail to do it properly in a given time or get it the wrong way round, then the 
challenging team wins a point.

**
KEEP TALKING

This is a knockout competition, it is played in two's.  Each person has to keep 
talking at the other person.  It doesn't matter what they are talking about, but 
there must be no repetition or pauses.  You will need a referee to decide the 
winner of each pair.  We have played this several times and it has proved very 
popular.  Each time we have played it we have been surprised at the eventual 
winner.  Often the younger scouts have walked all over the older scouts in this 
game.

>From Mike Stolz: We played this with our Boy Scouts - they loved it.  A likeable 
8th grade 'motor mouth' won easily, his only competition was our Jr. Asst. 
Scoutmaster, who was quoting plays, the Gettysburg address, etc, but eventually 
ran out of material.  We needed to set down a few ground rules though.  The 
pauses had to last at least 2 seconds, 'common strings', like letters, numbers, 
months, etc. could only be a maximum of 12 in a row, you could not touch your 
competitor, and ONLY the (adult) judge could call a boy out for repetition.  
This is a great 'I need it in a hurry' game!

**
COLOURED CIRCLES
You will need:
  *) 5 different coloured pieces of chalk, Red, Blue, Green, Yellow and Brown.

Split the troup or pack into equal teams and get them to number themselves off 
in their teams.  Then draw a number of coloured circles on the floor, several of 
each colour.

The leader now calls out an object and a number e.g. "GRASS 2", the
number two in each team now has to run and stand in a circle that matches the
colour of the object.  The first person standing in the correct coloured circle
wins a point for his team.

suggestions:
RED    =Blood, Cherries, Ruby
BLUE   =Violet, Sapphire, Electric
GREEN  =Grass, Emerald, Cucumber
YELLOW =Lemon, Primrose,Sulphur
BROWN  =Earth, Potato, Leather

Please remember that some lads may have trouble with colours and so you
may have to point out which circles are which.

**
CAR TEAM RACE

Sixes stand in teams and are numbered.  Each number is given the name
of a car.  When the number OR the name of the car is called out, they have to
race to the end of the hall and back to their place, using the method they have
been told.  e.g.

1. Mini-crawl
2. Volkswagon - hop
3. Jaguar-run
4. Jensen - pigeon steps
5. Skoda - walk sideways
6. Cavalier - skip

**
CRABS CROWS AND CRANES

This is a running about game which is good if you are in a large hall or outside 
with a lot of boys.  Split them into two teams, in two lines across the hall.  
There should be a gap of about ten feet between them.  Near each end of the hall 
should be a home line for each team.  Don't make it too close to the wall or 
they will run into it.  One team are the crows, the other team are the cranes.

If you shout cranes, the cranes team must run to their home line without getting 
tagged by the crows team.  Any member of the cranes that gets tagged has to join 
the crows team.  If you shout crows, the crows team has to run to their home 
line without getting tagged by the cranes team.  Any member of the crows that 
gets tagged has to join the cranes team.

If you shout crabs they must all stand still.  Anyone that moves must
join the opposing team.  You start off each time with both teams lined up
across the hall facing each other.  The game ends when one team has all the
players.  You can have a lot of fun rolling your RRRRR'S with this.
CRRRRRRRRABS, CRRRRRRROWS, CRRRRRRANES.

**
SNAKE DODGE
You will need:
  *) A ball

This is a continuous game with no winners or losers.  Five or six players stand 
in a line, in the center of the circle formed by the rest of the troop or pack.  
Each player in the line puts his arms round the waist of the player in front.  
The object of the game is for the players around the circle to hit the player at 
the end of the line or snake, below the knees with the ball.  The snake can move 
around inside the circle to make this more difficult.  When the player at the 
back of the snake is struck by the ball, he leaves the snake and moves into the 
circle of throwers and the player who threw the ball, joins on as the front man 
of the snake.  The game carries on for as long as you wish.

**
TURN TURTLE

If your scouts or cubs like rolling around on the floor then they will
love this quickie.  I would advise activity dress, so as not to dirty uniforms.
Pair the scouts off in size.  One boy in each pair lies on his back on the
ground.  On the word go the other scout has to try and turn him over onto his
stomach.  The scout on the floor tries to prevent this by spreading out his
arms and legs and moving around on the floor.  No tickling or foul play is
allowed.

**
TAIL GRAB
You will need:
  *) A rope or cloth tail for each patrol or six

Each patrol stands in a line behind their patrol leader.  Each man holds the 
belt or waist of the man in front.  The last man has a tail tucked into his 
trousers.  On the word 'GO' the patrol leaders have to move around the room and 
try to get as many of the other patrols tails as possible.  Any patrols that 
break their chain are disqualified.  The winning patrol is the one with the most 
tails.

**
HUMAN BOAT RACE

Each boat is made up of eight to ten players each in full knees-bent
position.  Each player has his hands on the shoulders of the man in front.
Facing the line of players in each boat is a 'COX'.  The cox holds the hands of
the front player in the boat.  When the race starts, the boats move forwards by
all players in a boat springing together off both feet.  The cox for each boat
shouts encouragement for his team and calls out the rhythm for the spring.
During the race, any boat that breaks up into two or more parts is deemed to
have sunk and is disqualified from the race.

**
SIGNALS
You will need:
  *) Various noise makers such as whistles, rattles and bells

This game is similar to the game where you shout out Port and Starboard.  The 
players are told what action they must perform when a certain sound is heard.  
Play this a few times with nobody being out, then start taking out people who do 
the wrong action or who are the last ones to do the action.

**
CITY TOWN COUNTRY

Players sit in two lines team A and Team B, each line numbered 1 to N.
Player 1 in team A says to player number 1 in team B the name of a city, town
or Country.

We will suppose for example that he says 'GERMANY".  Player 1 in team B must
now say a town city or country, beginning with the last letter of Germany.  Let
us suppose that he says "YORK".  Player 2 in team A now has to say a city, town
or country beginning with the letter K.  This goes on all the way down the
line.  If a player fails to give a correct answer or duplicates a previous
answer, then a point is awarded to the other team.  When the end of the line is
reached play begins at player number 1 again.

** 
COMPASS GAME
>From: johnh@prism.CS.ORST.EDU (John Holeman)
Date: 22 Apr 92 20:31:18 GMT

A game I used to play in scouts was the compass game.  Everyone stood spread
out around the room and was told to orient themselves to "north".  North could
be real north or a convenient wall or corner in the room.  Everyone except for
the caller and the referees closed their eyes (blindfolded if you don't think
the honor system will work).  The caller then calls out a direction, like
"east" and then everyone turns (eyes still closed) and points in the direction
of east. The referee the goes around and taps the shoulder of anyone not
pointing in the right direction.  They are out.  The game continues until one
player is left. It gets interesting when you start calling headings and
bearings. 

This is a good game as it only discriminates by your sense of direction, which 
improves as you play.

**
SUBMARINES
>From: medic@hardy.u.washington.edu (Travis Lauricella)
Date: 9 Dec 92 01:35:47 GMT

A troop 53 favorite.  In a large, pitch black room, with light
switches on each end, the troop is split in half.  Each half gets on their
hands and knees near the light switch that they are protecting.  On the 
Scoutmaster's signal, the scouts, staying on their hands and knees, attempt to
turn on the light on the other end of the room while protecting their own.
Like British Bulldog, this game can get a bit violent, what with kids fighting
in the dark to get to the switch.  This game would probably have to be modified 
for other meeting areas (especially those with hard floors!)

**
SARDINES (HIDE & SEEK)
>From: medic@hardy.u.washington.edu (Travis Lauricella)
Date: 9 Dec 92 01:35:47 GMT

We turn all the lights off in the entire church (including those intended to be 
left on permanently).  One scout stays in the meeting room and  counts to 
twenty, the rest of the scouts hide anywhere (except for pre-set off limits 
areas) in the building.  "It" begins looking for the scouts.  Once a scout is 
found, he joins "it" in the hunt.  The last scout found is the winner.  The 
scouts especially enjoy jumping out of a dark corner and scaring their 
scoutmaster.

**
SPUD
>From: medic@hardy.u.washington.edu (Travis Lauricella)
Date: 9 Dec 92 01:35:47 GMT

Each scout is assigned a number between one and x, x being the number of
scouts.  In a circle outside (we circle around a flagpole) one person throws
a ball (tennis, racquet, or similar) as high as he can, straight up, and calls
out a number.  The scout whose number is called catches the ball as the rest
of the scouts fun away from him as fast as possible.  Once the called scout
catches the ball, he yells "STOP!" at which time all retreating scouts are
_supposed_ to stop dead in their tracks.  (This is where the most argument
comes in in this game...) The scout with the ball is allowed to take three
_really_ long steps (more like standing long jumps) so that he can get as
close to the nearest scout as possible.  He then attempts to hit the scout with
the ball (not in the head or other vital organs).  The scout being shot at is
allowed to twist and bend, but may not move his feet.  If the scout is hit, he
gets to retrieve the ball while the rest of the scouts get back in a circle.
He is also given a "spud," or a point.  If the scout is missed, the throwing
scout chases after the ball and gets a spud.  Once the ball is retrieved, 
the game begins again, with the number called and the ball thrown.  The scout
with the least number of spuds at the end of the game wins.

**
WHOMP 'EM

Scouts get in a circle facing in, with both hands, palms up, behind their backs.  
Scouts must be looking into the circle.  One scout, with a rolled up newspaper, 
walks around the outside of the circle.  When he chooses, he  puts the newspaper 
into the hands of a scout, who then proceeds to "whomp" the scout to his right.  
The scout being "whomped" runs as fast as he can (unless he enjoys being 
whomped) around the circle back to his starting position.  The scout now holding 
the newspaper walks around the outside of the circle, looking for a scout to 
whomp the person to his right, as above.  No winners, everyone wins.

------------------------------
Subject: Game Compendium -- Wide Games
From: LISTSERV@TCUBVM.BITNET (Listserv Archives)

**
ELEPHANT HUNT
You will need:
  *) Coloured wool to match up with six's colours
  *) talcum powder
  *) plastic plant identification labels
  *) TIME to lay the trail

Tell story to the pack about the elephants who have escaped from the local 
circus, who have asked for the cubs help in getting the elephants back.  The 
circus tell us that each elephant is wearing a coloured mat on it's back, each 
mat matches one of the sixes colours.  So each six can look for the elephant 
wearing their sixes colour on it's back.

The cubs then follow a trail of wool, picking up their colours as they go.  They 
must not pick up any other colours.  You could tell them how many pieces they 
should find.  The trail divides and finally the coloured wool disappears.  All 
that can be seen is large (talcum powder) elephants footprints on the ground.  
These all lead to one place where the elephants can clearly be seen, wearing 
tatty mats on their backs, (parents or leaders).  But the elephants have been 
caught by a gang of thieves who will sell them back to the cubs for #200 no 
more, no less.

The cubs are then told that they can gather this money from around a certain 
bush.  This money is the plastic plant tabs, stuck into the ground around the 
bush.  Each label is marked with an amount of money. Each six must only take 
labels to exactly #200 and pay the thieves for their elephant .  They then take 
their elephant back to the circus where there is sure to be a reward.

**
MIXED UP NAMES
You will need:
  *) A name card for each activity base leader and an activity for them to
     look after at that base

Each of the leaders or the people manning the bases is given a card similar to
the ones described below:
1.  You are "THUNDER FIST".  Tell them they must find "THE KRAKEN".
2.  You are "THE KRAKEN".  Tell them they must find "THORIN".
3.  You are "THORIN".  Tell them they must find "THE HULK".
4.  You are "THE HULK".  Tell them they must find "Robin Hood".
5.  You are "Robin Hood".  Tell them they must find "THUNDER FIST".

You can of course vary the number of bases that you have.  Each person manning a 
base is also given an activity that the cubs or scouts have to complete at that 
base.  The base men are sent out and hide within a given area. The patrols are 
then sent out, each having been given a different "NAME" to find.  When a 
baseman is found, the scouts or cubs have to ask him if he is the name they are 
looking for.  If he is not then they have to keep looking.  If he is then he 
asks them to complete a simple scouting exercise such as tying a bowline.  He 
then gives them the name of the next person they have to find.  A point is given 
for completion of an exercise to the satisfaction of the baseman.  The winning 
patrol is the one that finds all the basemen and completes the most tasks.

**
BRASS RUBBING RACE
You will need:
  *) A sheet of heavy duty paper or brown wrapping paper
  *) for each six or patrol and a thick wax crayon

On the command go, each patrol leaves the hut in search of roadsigns to
rub.  They have to make up the phrase " BE PREPARED " on the sheet of paper.
They have to brass rub the letters onto the sheet of paper with the wax crayon,
from the road signs.  The first patrol back with the completed phrase are the
winners.  This is an excellent game as it makes the scouts think of all the
road names in their locality that might contain the letters they need.  You can
of course use other phrases for repeated use.  It is also a good idea to supply
each patrol with a damp cloth, this is to clean the road sign of wax crayon
should the paper split.

**
ROCKETS AND INTERCEPTORS
You will need:
  *) a bucket or large tin
  *) a large number of coloured balls or plastic clothes pegs all
  *) the same colour
  *) Skittles or rope to mark off the target area

This is played by two teams.  The attacking team are called the rockets and the 
defending team are called the interceptors.  The target area is marked off and 
the bucket or large tin is placed in the center.  Only rockets are allowed to go 
inside the target area.  Up to four interceptors are allowed to hover around the 
target area.  The rockets have a base at which they pick up their warheads.  
Each rocket can carry only one warhead to the target area.  If a rocket is 
tagged by an interceptor before going inside the target area, they must hand 
over their warhead and return to their base.  20 warhead units in the bucket or 
tin destroy the interceptor target area.  All the coloured balls count for 1 
warhead unit.  The five white balls are special multi warheads and count as 5 
warhead units for each white ball.  If the interceptor target area is not 
destroyed after 20 minutes then change over the teams so that everyone has a 
turn at attacking and defending. This game is best played where there is a bit 
of cover for hiding and creeping up on the target, or at night when visibility 
is reduced.

**
NAVAL COMBAT
You will need:
  *) Coloured wool (or cloth) to be worn on the arm for each team
  *) 6 cards bearing the name "DESTROYER"
  *) 4 cards bearing the name "SUBMARINE"
  *) 2 cards bearing the name "BATTLESHIP"
  Instead of cards you could use coloured counters or plastic clothes pegs

This is best played with three or more teams.  Each team is given a base which 
is their naval shipyard.  Each player is allowed to take one card from their 
shipyard to take part in the combat.  When they take a card, they also take a 
length of their teams coloured wool to tie round one arm.  A combat area is 
marked off in the center of the field and combat may only take place within this 
area.  Combat takes place in the following manner, a player will tag a player 
from an opposing team.  Both players then compare their cards as follows:

A battleship takes a destroyer, a destroyer takes a submarine and a submarine
takes a battleship.  The losing boy hands over his piece of wool to the winner
and returns to his shipyard for a new piece of wool.  Combat can only take
place between two players who are each wearing a piece of wool.  If both
players have craft of equal status such as two submarines then it is an even
match and there is no victor, they then have to go and challenge somebody else.
A boy can exchange ships only at his shipyard when he is getting a new piece of
wool.  The winning team is the one which has collected the most pieces of wool
at the end of the game.

**
LAMP CHICANE
You will need:
  *) 4 lamps such as hurricane lamps

The game is played in the dark between two teams.  Two lamps are placed about 
100 metres apart.  These are the home bases.  Another two lamps are placed about 
40 metres apart, and at right angles to the first two lamps.  They should be 
about halfway between the first two lamps.  One team is split into two, one half 
going to each home base lamp.  Their object is to get to the other homebase 
lamp, without being caught.  They must go between the other two lamps to get 
there.  There is no restriction on how far out they go to either side to get to 
the other home lamp, but they must go between the two 40 metres apart lamps.  
For each member who reaches the other home base, their team wins a point.

**
STEAL THE BACON
>From: cronin@en.ecn.purdue.edu

You will need:
  *) a hat, scarf or some other 'bacon'

Divide the troop into two halves (not three halves, nor one half).  Number off 
EACH half separately.  If there are 30 boys in the troop, then you would have 
two groups, each numbered from 1-15.

Line them up facing each other, about 30-40 feet apart.  In numerical order. 
Place your 'bacon' between the lines.  Now the field will look kinda like this:

  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

           X               O  <--- SPL or Scoutmaster

 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

The idea is for a scout to go out and retrieve the object.  The SM calls out a 
number, and each scout with that number runs out and tries to get the object and 
go back behind his line.

Once the object is touched, the scout that touched the object can be tagged by 
the other scout.  There are two ways to win a round: Either get the object and 
bring it behind your line without being tagged, or tag the other scout after he 
grabs the object and before he makes it past the line.

Variation:  tell a story instead of just calling out numbers:

"Once, THREE scouts went on a hike.  They saw TWO deer and FIVE trees..."

Variation:  Call out more than one number

It usually ends up with two scouts circling the object, waiting for an opening, 
with the other scouts shouting, etc.  If nobody makes a move, call out another 
number so there will be four scouts instead of two out there.

As for physical builds, strength is NOT a factor in this game, but speed and 
planning is.
*
Variation:  From Mike Stolz: We also play a variation of this game.  We put 2 
'Bacons' out of different colors.  We then read out True/False questions (often 
on First Aid, or from the Tenderfoot or Second Class rank requirements).  When 
we call out a number, the boys have to make a choice - one Bacon is True, the 
other is False.  If you grab the wrong color and take it across your line, you 
lose.  Naturally, if you grab the wrong color and your opponent tags you, HE 
loses!

Variation:
>From: castaldi@heroes.glassboro.edu
  JOHN CASTALDI- CHAIRMAN - TROOP 55 - TUCKAHOE, NJ, USA
Date: Wed, 25 Nov 1992 15:24:00 GMT

INSTEAD OF CALLING NUMBERS, ASK QUESTIONS THAT RESULT IN A NUMBER LIKE:
HOW MANY LEAVES ON POISON IVY?
HOW MANY SCOUTS ARE THERE IN THE BUDDY SYSTEM?
HOW MANY FIRST AID HURRY CASES ARE THERE?
HOW MANY MINUTES CAN SOMEONE SURVIVE WITHOUT OXYGEN?

The possibilities are endless - and it's not just another meaningless game that 
is a waste of time.

Variation:
>From: Vance Kochenderfer
 - Eagle Scout, Asst. Scoutmaster Troop 967, Baltimore Area Council

We made it interesting by doing math problems (2 plus 4 divided by 3 or some 
such).

Variation:  
>From: Stan Bimson - ASM Troop 406

 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 (n)  (team A)
 2
 1


F T              O  <--- SPL or Scoutmaster


 1
 2
 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 (n)  (team B)

No numbers are called, True/False questions are asked of the next person in 
line.  Good type of questions deal with First Aid, Scouting history, use of 
knots, just about anything dealing with Scouting, like "how far can you go into 
the woods?"

Questions can slow scout's reaction time leaving the starting position as the 
idea is to know whether the answer is T or F.  The idea is to take the bacon of 
the correct answer, color of the bacon denotes the T and the F bacon.  A Scout 
taking the correct answer bacon and returning to Home gets a point, if he is 
"tagged" then the other team gets the point.  If a Scout takes the wrong answer 
bacon then the Scout from the other team doesn't have to try and tag him.  
Taking the Wrong answer bacon gives the other team a point.  But if the Scout 
takes the wrong answer bacon and IS tagged by the Scout from the other team 
then 
the Scout's team taking the bacon gets the point even though he selected 
incorrectly.  Two wrongs don't make a right but I have seen older boys take the 
wrong one and then "slip" so that they can get caught.

This opens up many more chance to win even if your team members are the 
fastest, 
it adds the element of knowledge into the game.

**
TROGLODYTES
>From: edmonds@–mprgate.mpr.ca (Adam Edmonds)
  1st Kanata Knights of the March Rover Crew
  5th Burnaby Mountain Cub Pack
  Secretary for Ontario Rover Round Table
Date: Wed, 25 Nov 92 19:34:36 GMT

You will need:
  *) some candles
  *) some matches

Here is a wide that we call "Troglodytes" although I think that it's common
name is burning bridges.  The premise behind the game is that Troglodytes have
landed on our planet from another galaxy and are preparing to take over the
world.  The troglodytes have a faulty spaceship which will explode if it is set
on fire. 

The scouts job is to sneak up to the troglodyte ship and blow it up.  However, 
The troglodytes are more advanced then humans and have laser blasters that can 
kill the scouts.

The game is played on a dark night in a large field with many hiding spots.

The leaders place a candle and some matches at a designated location.  The 
leaders then pick a place near the candle but not right up close to it.  Each 
leader carries a flashlight and is not allowed to move from his/her location.

The scouts start at one location and must sneak up and light the candle.  If a 
leader hears a scout he/she turns on his/her flashlight and blasts the scout.  
If a scout is hit with the flashlight then he is out.

The game continues until a scout can light the candle or until all scouts are 
dead.

Note that the flashlights can only be used for a short burst.

**
ZORCH (much like TROGLODYTES)
>From: rickcl@pogo.wv.tek.com (Rick Clements)
  credit to: Joe Ramirez - Life Scout
Date: 25 Nov 92 01:06:53 GMT

You will need:
  *) a flashlight
  *) a pot

This game has to be played on a rather dark night.  Playing this game on a hill 
is preferable.  One player sits at the top of the hill with the flashlight, the
rest of the people start at the bottom of the hill.  The object of the game is
to advance up the hill and touch the pot with out being "zapped" by the person
with the flashlight.  If a person is zapped they have to go back down to the
bottom of the hill and has to start over.  The first person to get the pot is
the winner.  He then becomes the person with the flashlight and the game starts
over.  My troop has played this game for hours on end.  It is really fun and
even some of the adults get in on the action. 

**
STALKING
>From: anthropo@carina.unm.edu (Dominick V. Zurlo)
Date: 24 Nov 92 22:48:39 GMT

This is one game we used for years.  It's called "Stalking", but I have
heard different titles:
1) one person is the "stalked, and stands at the top of a wooded or 
   rock-formation-ridden hill/slope.
2) other players start at bottom of slope.
3) the stalked player counts to 10 out loud.
4) the other players rush up the slope towards the stalked player.
5) when the stalked player is done counting he turns around and any other
   player he can visibly see must return to the bottom of the slope.  
6) after the stalked can no longer see anyone, he begins counting again.
7) this cycle is repeated until one of the players reaches the stalked player
   and takes his place.  

This should be done so that it would take a player several cycles to reach
the top.  It is a lot of fun in large groups.

**
THE OTHER GUY'S OBSTACLE COURSE
>From: rickcl@pogo.wv.tek.com (Rick Clements)
Date: 25 Nov 92 01:08:39 GMT

Standard set-up, but small: tire to go through, chest-high rope to go over,
"creek" to cross, bell suspended out-of-reach to ring.  Trick is, you may not
do anything to maneuver yourself thru any obstacle - the other people in the
Patrol have to push/pull/carry/ lift/etc. you thru!  First Scout lies down, and
is stuffed thru the tire, whereupon he may help pull subsequent Scouts thru. 
At the over-the-rope obstacle, each Scout must be lifted over by the others &
deposited on the other side (getting the last one over can take ingenuity!). 
To go over the "creek", the Scout whose turn it is may not "get wet", but
everyone else may.  The most amusing effective solution I've seen was a Patrol
that had their strongest Scout carry the 3 smallest across at one time, then
had the small guys go to hands-&-knees in the creek, pushed the big guy over
across the kneeling Scouts' backs, & had him pull the others over.  Build a
human pyramid to reach the bell.  Timed event, starts at ref's "Go!", ends when
bell rings. Lots of tumbling around.  :-) 

**
CAPTURE THE FLAG
>From: rickcl@pogo.wv.tek.com (Rick Clements)
 credit to: Joe Ramirez - Life Scout 
Date: 25 Nov 92 01:07:44 GMT

You will need:
  *) 2 flags
  *) for night play - 2 or more lanterns

First you pick out two even teams.  Once you have the teams you set boundaries 
for the game.  The boundaries can be wherever you want them.  What you should 
end up with is a large rectangle or square.  Once you have decided on the 
boundaries, you should draw a line through the middle of your playing zone.  
This line is divides the two sides.  Each team should be able to choose where 
they want their flag and jail but they have to show the other team where they 
are and both teams have to agree on the placement of the flags and jails.

Once this is done, each team goes to their own side of the playing field.  Once 
the game begins, the teams are free to go at the others flag.  If a team member 
is caught on the other teams side, (To be caught you must be "tagged" by a 
player on the opposite side on his own territory), he will be sent to jail.  
This player must sit in jail until either the game ends or he is freed by a 
member of his own team.  To be freed, you have to be touched by a "free" member 
of his own team.  The freed player gets a free walk to his own side of the 
playing field.  The person freeing the player is on his own, he may still be 
tagged and put in jail.  To win the game you must capture the other teams flag 
and return it to your own side with out being captured.

It is up to the team on how they want to place their members.  When we play, we 
usually have two players guard the flag and one player be the jail guard.  Two 
or more players stick around and help provide the defence.  The rest go for the 
flag.

Variation:  From Mike Stolz: Our troop plays this on every overnite campout.
For night play, we use 2 or 4 lanterns.  Two are used to mark the center line,
while the other two can be used to show the 'approximate' area where the team's
flag is.  Our flag guards MUST remain at least 15 feet (5 meters) from their
own flag unless chasing someone, and the flags must be completely exposed (no
stuffing them into holes in the ground, or tying them to trees).  When the
teams are small, we do away with the jail.  Instead, we create 'Check Point
Charlie' at the centerline.  Captured prisoners can be exchanged for a point. 
In case of a tie (equal games won, or no winner at all), the team that earned
the most points is declared the winner. You will need:   *) 

**
GAME OF LIFE
>From: germain%sanctum.cs.utah.edu@cs.utah.edu (H. James de St. Germain)
Date: 31 Aug 92 11:50:49

I learned a game at national scout camp which I forget the name of, but
basically goes like this.  All the scouts save one (or a couple) start out side
of the woods.  They are considered the prey of the forest (deer, antelope,
small game).  In the forest you place a large number of objects (hats, chips,
scarves, etc) which represent food.  The prey must go into the forest and
gather three items of food (and return them to the safety zone) or risk
starvation during the winter. 

The one scout who is not prey is considered a predator (wolf, grizzly, eagle, 
etc).  The predators job is to capture the prey.  he does this by simply 
touching the prey.  The prey has three methods of defense.

1) RUN - deer use it, (Be careful if you allow running at your camp.)
2) FREEZE - a prey that is totally immobile is considered to by camouflaged, 
   and cannot be touched until he moves (looks around, etc)
3) HIDE - touch a tree to symbolize hiding in the tree.

Each prey carries one object to symbolize themselves.  If they are "eaten" by 
the predator, they must give their chip to the predator that got them.  They 
then become a predator for the next year.  If the predator doesn't get three 
prey, he starves for the winter.  Any predator that starves becomes prey for
the next year. 

Note, you should start with only a small number of food in the forest the first 
year (maybe 2 * number of prey) (remember they need three to survive).  

The game is fun and shows how there must be a balance between the prey and the 
predators.  I'm sure you can adapt this game to many environments and change 
the 
rules where needed to make it more fun and or educational.

**
BRITISH BULLDOG
>From: vkochend@isis.cs.du.edu (vance kochenderfer)
Date: 1992-Apr-22

Another game is British Bulldog.  One person stands in the center of a 
rectangle.  He's the bulldog.  Everyone else lines up along one side of the 
rectangle.  At the bulldog's command, everyone dashes across the field toward
the opposite side.  The bulldog's job is to grab someone, and hold him
completely above the ground while saying "one, two, three, British Bulldog." 
If he succeeds, the caught player joins him in the middle.  Repeat until
everyone is caught.  The last player left becomes the bulldog for the next
round. 

This was particularly interesting in our troop, since we had a 250+ pound guy.  
It took quite a few of us to lift him.

** WARNING ** 
>From: fell@sol.UVic.CA (Stuart Fell)
Date: Thu, 23 Apr 92 03:17:22 GMT

We do play this game but not that much anymore.  With the scouts I have in
my troup, this game gets too dangerous.  We can expect at least one person to
get hurt each time it's played and/or someone's uniform loses at least one
button, etc.

**
>From: stolz@fnal.fnal.gov

I've also banned this game because of injuries.  For reasons I don't
understand, whenever we allow this game, kicking, choking, tripping and
'clotheslining' suddenly become acceptable tactics.  When I was a kid, our
troop played it all the time, and I don't remember anyone getting injured back
then. 

**
>From: medic@hardy.u.washington.edu (Travis Lauricella)
Date: 9 Dec 92 01:35:47 GMT

I was under the impression that British Bulldog had been banned by the BSA as 
well, but upon seeing it described in _Scouting_ magazine a few months ago, I 
put it back into the program.  Even though it's rough, and there are nearly 
always minor injuries, I let the scouts play.  And I let them know that they 
have the option to sit out, if they so desire.

Played as previously described, with the added rule that instead of lifting the 
scout up for the count of "British Bulldog- one-two-three!" the scout can be 
pinned as well.  Both shoulders to the turf.

**
JAIL BREAK
>From: rickcl@pogo.wv.tek.com (Rick Clements)
Date: 25 Nov 92 01:10:26 GMT

There are two "cops" and one "jailor".  The rest of the people are "robbers".
The number of "cops" and "jailors" can vary depending on the number of players.
A fairly central location is designated as "jail", The jail should be fairly
out in the open and the boundaries definite.  A picnic table can work great as
a jail (those in the jail would sit on top of the table). 

All robbers are given some designated time to go hide (like hide-and-go-seek
maybe 30-60 seconds).  After the appropriate hiding time, the cops go looking
for the robbers.  The robbers usually are not in the same spot all of the time
for reasons I will describe in a minute.  The cops catch a robber by one of
many methods (this is where the variations come into play).  The robber may be
tagged, hit with a light beam, person identified correctly, or combinations of
these.  When a robber is caught, they are taken to jail by the cop. 

The big difference between this and hide-n-seek is, if someone is quick and sly
(someone being a robber), they can cause a "jail-break" and let all that are in
jail get out of jail.  This is done by sneaking up into jail (not being caught
by the jailor), stepping IN the jail (or touching the table with both hands),
and yelling "JAIL BREAK!"  At this point, all that are in jail are FREE.  The
jailor must give everyone that was in jail and the breaker some time to get
away (maybe 15 seconds).  Sometimes this game has gone on for hours for one
game. 

Sometimes it is a fairly short game (but not too often).  If you want, you can 
have the game continue on by having the final (in this example) 3 people to be 
the cops and jailor.

**
SCOUT STAFF TREASURE HUNT
>From: M.S.Wileman1@lut.ac.uk
Date: 29 Nov 92 16:51:09 GMT

A wide game that is popular in our scouts is to distribute various
items of a trangia around our local village, on the ScoutLeaders
doorstep, and the Exec.'s etc, and send the scouts off on a kind of a
treasure hunt, with the aim to make a cup of tea for the S.L. and the
A.S.L. at the end(It was good!!;-)

The hunt started with a note telling them where to find the next item
of the Trangia, and then the next note was on the next item, etc...  It
also helped the scouts to learn who their Exec. were, as the notes
told them it was in the Secretary's garden, and it helped immensely if
they knew *who* the secretary was...

Glossary: Tragia: Swedish outdoor cooker, I'm not at all sure if it's
known at all in the U.S., but it is very popular over here.  It's
light weight, and uses meths to run, but Butane attachments are
available now.  Mine splits up into several pieces, and so was ideal for
this exercise.

**
RACE AROUND THE RING
>From: mpg92118@dit.upm.es (ANDRES CANCER ABREU)
Date: Tue, 1 Dec 1992 20:03:31 GMT

Here is a short game for cubs.

Make pairs with the  boys in the pack, place the couples in a circle, one
kid behind the other looking both towards the center. Select a 'victim' and
a 'catcher'. Well after my poor English the game is like that.

The catcher tries to catch the victim who runs around the external part of
the ring. The victim can stop behind a couple and then the kid in the inner
part is the catcher and the catcher is the victim. The new catcher must touch
his ankle before beginning to run.

I make a draft of the exchange between victim and catcher so i am clear. (sorry
my English is not that even) :)

              c3
	      c4

      c1 c2       c6 c5 <-- V

     V <-- C  c8   C
	      c7

They get so confused with changing sides that it's really amazing.....
------------------------------
End of part 1, File '3_games'


