Newsgroups: rec.scouting,rec.answers,news.answers
Path: bloom-beacon.mit.edu!xlink.net!scsing.switch.ch!bernina!macman
From: macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener)
Subject: rec.scouting FAQ  #2: Scouting around the World
Message-ID: <scouts-world_757480503@bernina.ethz.ch>
Followup-To: poster
Keywords: WOSM world brotherhood scout wolf cub pack troop faq
Sender: macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener)
Supersedes: <scouts-world_754888503@bernina.ethz.ch>
Organization: Pfadi Glockenhof, 8001 Zurich, Switzerland
Date: Sun, 2 Jan 1994 03:15:10 GMT
Approved: news-answers@uunet.uu.net
Expires: Tue, 15 Feb 1994 03:15:03 GMT
Lines: 1395
Xref: bloom-beacon.mit.edu rec.scouting:5948 rec.answers:3530 news.answers:13591

Archive-name: scouting/2_scouting-around-the-world
Last-Modified: 1993/11/12

This file contains descriptions on how scouting organizations are
set up around the world, and other worldwide information of interest.

If you have been in a scouting organization that hasn't been described
in this FAQ, or if you would like to add something to an existing
description, please do all of us the favour. Write it up, post it
on rec.scouting and send a copy to me so that it can be included in
future issues of this FAQ.

IMPORTANT NOTE: As I'm reaching the size limit for FAQ files, I had
to edit the largest articles to reduce them to their essential parts.
I also moved all references to local versions of the Scout Law & Promise
to a single article at the end of this file.

I saved the full original articles on ftp.ethz.ch in the directory
rec.scouting/worldwide.

This file is in digested format, like all FAQ files on this newsgroup.
If you're using nn as newsreader, type 'G %" to split the digest into
individual postings. In bn or rn, typing control-G should cause the
reader to skip to the next posting within this file.

There are nine FAQ files in the rec.scouting FAQ series. The FAQ files
are posted in regular intervals (one file every three or four days)
on rec.scouting, rec.answers and news.answers. They can also be
retrieved through anonymous FTP from ftp.ethz.ch (path: rec.scouting/).

As the FAQ files are updated regularly, make sure that you have the
latest copy in your hands. The release date of this FAQ is indicated
in the line starting with "Last-Modified:" at the top of this file.
Files older than three months should be considered as outdated.

This file or parts of it may be freely used, printed and re-distributed
as long as you enclose this paragraph and keep the references to the
respective contributors and to the maintainer (listed below) intact.

-- Danny Schwendener         macman@bernina.ethz.ch
   Wolfsmeute Nidau/Glockenhof, Sihlstr. 33, CH-8001 Zurich, Switzerland

--------------------------------
From: macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener)
Subject: Scouts worldwide - the figures
Date: Tue, 12 May 1992 09:58:26 GMT

I just went over the 92 figures of the WOSM, and thought that they
might be of interest to this group.  I think that they will amaze more
than one here.

Members of scouting organizations, regrouped by regions:

Far East:          7'000'000
North America:     4'200'000
Europe:            2'000'000
Africa:              500'000
Middle East:         500'000
South America:       300'000
Australia/Oceania:   200'000

Note: these figures cover member organizations of the World Organization
of the Scouting Movement (WOSM) only.


--------------------------------
From: chick@hilbert.maths.utas.edu.au
Subject: Scouting in Australia
Date: Wed, 25 Mar 1992 05:55:18 GMT

Here in Oz (alias Australia!) our Scouting system works as follows:

_Section_               _Age Range_     _Oz Grade Range (approx.)_
Joey Scouts             6 - 8           Kindergarten/Preparatory-Grade 2
Cub Scouts              8 - 11          Grade 2 - Grade 5
Scouts                  10.5 - 15       Grade 5 - Grade 9/10
Venturer Scouts         14.5 - 18       Grade 9 - Grade 11/12
Rover Scouts            18 - 26         Adult (University +)

Joey Scouts is new for us - the children  don't wear full uniform,
just the scarf of their local group (all our sections are mixed
boys/girls now ... if the leaders of the local troop/unit/group
(Oz name) so decide, although males are still in the majority).
All the other sections have been around for quite a while, and
are fully uniformed.  Adult leaders may obtain their "Warrant"
(basic qualification for leadership) after they are 18.
Most of the local groups will have a Cub Scout and a Scout section
at the very least (depending on the size of the area), Venturer
units are the next most likely, followed by Joey mobs (in Australia
a joey is a baby kangaroo, and the collective noun for kangaroo
is "mob") and then Rover crews.  (This is roughly how it is in
Tasmania, at any rate.)  Some groups are big enough to support
a couple of Cub packs, but this is about the only area in which
doubling up occurs.  A number of groups make up a district (there
are 9 or 10 groups in our district), and a district is  usually a
(reasonably) well-defined geographical area.  A few districts will
make up a region, and in little ol' Tassie it takes three regions
to fill the state.


--------------------------------
From: oakes@rtsg.mot.com (Ronald Oakes)
      and smh@cbnewsm.cb.att.com (s.m.henning)
Subject: Scouting in the USA (BSA)
Date: Wed, 25 Mar 1992 19:28:25 GMT

_Section_       _Age Range_     _U.S. Grades_   _Unit/Program_
Tiger Cubs      (6)             1st             Pack/Cub Scout
Wolf Cubs       (7)             2nd             Pack/Cub Scout
Bear Cubs       (8)             3rd             Pack/Cub Scout
Webelos         (9-10)          4th and 5th     Pack/Cub Scout
Boy Scouts      (10.5)-17       6th - (12th)    Troop/Boy Scout
Varsisity       14-17           (9th - 12th)    Troop (Team)/Boy Scout
Venture         14-17           (9th - 12th)    Troop/Boy Scout
Career Awareness
 Exploring      (14-16)         9th or 10th     Post/Explorer
Explorers       14-20           (9th - Adult)   Post/Explorer
Sea Explorers   14-20           (9th - Adult)   Ship/Explorer
Air Explorers   obsolete
Adults          18-             (Adult)         Any (not Scoutmaster
                                                until 21)

Tiger Cubs are eqivlent to the Australian Joey's.  They are a highly
parent/son orinteated activity.  The Tiger's do meet with the cub pack.
Wolf and Bear dens make up the "traditional" cub scout program.
Webelos are a transition from Cubs to Scouts (Webelos means "We'll
Be Loyal Scouts).

About 3 years ago the Boy Scout (10.5-18) program was rearranged to
incude Varsitity teams and Venture crews within the troop for the
older boys.  The varisty program emphisizies sports, the Venture
emphisizes High Adventure.  Both of these programs are supposed to
be more Boy run than even the normal troop.  Varsity Teams may also
be  indepentant (I think).

Explorers is normally emphasized towards carreers.  However, a number
of "High Adventure," and hoby posts exists.  The Sea Explorers has
seperate positions and awards and uses sailing.  Air Explorers appears
to be the flying equivlent to Sea Explorers (I only know they exist
from looking through my Insigana Guide the other day).

At this time Girls may only join Explorer type units.  However,
unregistered girls may participate in Venture and Varsity activities.
Also, no adult position is restricted by Sex.  Personally, I suspect
that girls will be  allowed in all levels of scouting sometime in the
next 10 years.

 In addition to the normal program, scouts may be elected to become
a member  of the Order of the Arrow, an honor camping orginazation.
These activities should be in addition to normal troop, team or post
activities. The Order of Arrow is primarily a service organization.
Unfortunately many boys and adults join for the honor and forget the
obligation to service.

Alpha Phi Omega is an service fraternity orginazation that is closely
associated with scouting. See the separate message for more information.

Any boy with special needs can be placed in any program at any age and
stay in that program as long as it is appropriate to his ability.

We also have a new program called Learning For Life which is fully coed
and is designed to be used in schools.  It primarily uses lesson plans
the are related closely to life skills for disadvantaged students.
It does not use rank, uniform or anyting labeled scouting.

Traditional scout programs can also be used in schools during class
room time, but they only register the boys unless the students are
over 14.  Career Awareness Exploring is an in school program which
brings speakers into the school to describe various career choices.
It is supplemented with traditional explorer posts that concentrate
in more detail on careers.

Address for further information:

Boy Scouts of America
National Office
Irving, Texas 75015-2079

Check your phone book for the local Council Office


--------------------------------
From: millard@acsu.buffalo.edu
Also-From: dmahoney@eniac.seas.upenn.edu
Also-From: oconnell@rye.cs.unm.edu
Subject: Scouting in the USA (BSA) - General Organizational & ethical Info

  Scouting began as a world-wide movement that was established in all parts of
the world, and attempts to further the education, moral standards, and ethics
of young people around the globe.  The scouting movement does much, much more
than educate boys about the outdoors and camping.  It provides a learning
institution in which a young man can acquire such things as leadership skills,
public speaking abilities, and the techniques needed to run a large scale
organization in cooperation with several other people.

  Boy Scouts of America is primarily involved in character-building and
values-training. So, unfortunately, this often can limit the extent of
their focus on backcountry activities or environmental information.
Different troops are different.  Find the best ones.

  A large part of scouting has emphasis on the outdoors.  Many of our themes,
and the skills that we teach are centered on the theme of camping, and the
respect for mother nature.  We educate these boys about such things as knots,
cooking, and firebuilding, and we also instruct them on ideals such as low
impact camping (which is being practiced more and more) basic backpacking,
and canoeing to name a few.

  In order to let many troops experience the outdoors, there are
thousands of camps located through-out the country.  The majority of these
are run by local councils (many troops in one area constitute a council, and
there are many councils in a state); however, there are a few larger camps
which are run by the national office.  One of the most popular of these
is Philmont Scout Ranch located in Cimarron, New Mexico.  This is an area of
land that has hundreds of miles of backpacking trails which runs semi-guided
trips for troops all over the nation and world.  This is typically a
wonderful experience since it promotes low impact backpacking.  The scouts
are taught about the proper equipment to use such as boots,stoves,packs,etc.
There are several other National High Adventure Bases located around the
country, such as the Florida Sea Base, the Robert Service Canoe Base, located
near the Minnesota boundary waters.

  Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts are unfortunately and strangely distant from each
other.  Only Scouts and Explorers can attend the "High Adventure" bases.
Eventually, the increasing number of women Scoutmasters (they do exist)
will ask why they, their son and husband can receive what their daughter can't.
Some quasi-merger or cooperation agreement is likely in the future.

  Quite recently, scouting as a national organization has come into the
media concerning several court cases involving moral, as opposed to
environmental issues.  Specifically the evidence about discrimination in
various circumstances have come into question.   There are cases pending
in court about the dismissal of a gay scoutmaster, the refusal of the
regional headquarters to admit a young girl into cub scouts, and the issue
of religious influence on scouting.


--------------------------------
From: naraht@drycas.club.cc.cmu.edu (Randy Finder)
Subject: Alpha Phi Omega (USA)
Date: Fri Jan 22 1993 19:02:22 GMT

Alpha Phi Omega is a National Service Fraternity whose cardinal
principles are Leadership, Friendship and Service. Out program of service
is directed to four areas: Campus, Community, Nation, and Fraternity.
We were founded by former Boy Scouts who wanted to contine Scouting ideals
in the college setting.

We have about 350 active chapters in the United States and more than 225,000
students have chosen Alpha Phi Omega. There are about 150 chapters of Alpha
Phi Omega, Phillipines and we are interested in extending to other countries.

We were founded in 1929, until 1967 membership was only former Boy Scouts,
however today membership is now open to any college student, male or female.
We are not a social fraternity. We have no selective or exclusive membership
requirements and there is absolutely no hazing.

We maintain strong ties to its scouting roots.  HOWEVER, the BSA does not
finance or govern the fraternity in any way. Examples of Service to Scouting
include sponsoring Scout troops, staffing camporees and other functions,
cleaning up Scout camps and assisting in fundraising.

Address for further information:

Alpha Phi Omega National Office
14901 E. 42nd St.
Independence, MO 64055-9932


--------------------------------
From:  szafrans@copper.ucs.indiana.edu (Pam Furlong Backstrom)
Subject: Scouting in the USA (GSUSA)
Date:  2-APR-1992

ORG:  The Girl Scouts of the United States of America (GSUSA)
      830 Third Avenue
      New York, NY 10022

Break down of Program Age Levels  (Girl Scouting is for Girls only)

  Daisy Girl Scout  5-6 yo  K
  Brownie Girl Scout 6-8 yo  1-3 grade
  Junior Girl Scout 8-11 yo  3-6 grade
  Cadette Girl Scout 11-14 yo 6-9 grade
  Senior Girl Scout 14-17 yo 9-12 grade

Girl Scout Motto:   Be Prepared
Girl Scout slogan:  Do a Good Turn Daily

[Girl Scout Promise & Law: see separate article at the end of this FAQ -- Ed.]


--------------------------------
From: db14@hp825.bih.no (Vegard Engen)
Subject: Scouting in Norway.
Date: 26 Mar 92 13:03:44 GMT

[Note: Jan Pharo <jan.pharo@euronetis.no> has posted more information
 on the administrative and organizational parts of NSF. I have stored
 this article on ftp.ethz.ch in the directory rec.scouting/countries.]

In Norway we have several scout-associations, NSF, YMCA and YWCA.
However, they are cooperating well, I think (At least so in this town,
Bergen). NSF (Norges SpeiderForbund = Norwegian Scout Association) is
mixed boys and girls, they were two separate associations, but joined
their forces in '78. YMCA (KFUM in Norwegian) is only men, as the name
suggests, however I think they are closely linked with YWCA nowadays,
and there may be exceptions, such as female scoutmasters. YWCA is the
female counterpart.

I will after this speak about NSF only, since that's the organisation
I'm a member of. Most of it will apply for the other assications too,
though, at least the major parts.

NSF is divided into 4 age-groups:
6-7:   Bever scouts (this one is fairly new, not so many have them yet).
8-10:  Cub scouts.
11-16: Scouts (I really have no other name for them. :-))
16+  : Rovers.

The lower age for a scoutmaster is 17 years, however it is possible
to become an assistant scoutmaster from the age of 16 years.
Many scoutmasters are also rovers, and scoutmasters and rovers are
often two names of the same group of scouts. There IS no official
higher age for rovers, but the natural limit is somewhere around
22-23 years, when one often go away, get married or simply get
other interests.

In Norway we belive that scouting is outing, and try to do as much
of our activities as possible in the nature. We have national camps
every 4th year, and regional camp every 4th year, in such a way
there will be two years between every major camp. In addition the
groups have camps of their own, and there is also arranged national
camps for rovers in particular, since they will often have other
interests than younger scouts. A typical size for a national camp
nowadays is 19.000 scouts, and the last regional camp in Bergen
counted 650 scouts. This was with guests, though, there is always
guest from other countries at our camps, and even at our last
regional camp we had 150 foreign guests, some even from so far
away as Spain.

Last, a little tip for all those who leave their group for studies:
In Norway we have own scout-groups for students in the larger towns,
so those who want to continue with scouting when they leave town
can join those groups. I know they have a lot of fun, and at least
the one in Trondheim is a large resource when it comes to arranging
national evenements. However, I guess Bjoern Arne can tell you more
about that (arneberg@idt.unit.no).


--------------------------------
From: dtchn@sage.cc.purdue.edu (Dih!-ty / Dicksen Tanzil)
Subject: Scouting in Indonesia
Date: 26 Mar 92 15:19:04 GMT

The Scouting Movement of the Republic of Indonesia has a membership
of about 15 million people (out of a population of 190 million) which
is PROBABLY the largest in the world. It is open to both sex
and is organized as follow:
        Siaga (Cub Scout/Brownie) ................ 6-10 yr old
        Penggalang (Boy/Girl Scout)............... 11-15 yr "
        Penegak (Venture Scout) .................. 16-.... (I forgot)
        Pandega (Rover Scout) .................... (Also forgot)

Indonesia Scout groups is also open to all religions and, in fact,
MAY NOT have any religious affiliation even though when it is
sponsoured by a church or a mosque.
My Scout Group is affiliated to a Church but not to Christianity.....


--------------------------------
From: hung@octel.com (Hung Le)
Subject: Scouting experiences in Vietnam
Date: Wed, 1 Apr 1992 14:52:09 GMT

My name is Hung Le, and  I'm a  former cub scout, boy scout,
venturer, rover scout and scouter of BSVN (Boy Scout of Vietnam).
Currently,  I'm  with  the  Santa Clara County Council, BSA
as a unit commissioner.

I would like share with all fellow scouts out there on  the  Net-
work some personal experiences that I have had with the scout or-
ganizations, especially with the BSVN. These experiences  are  so
valuable  to my life and my children as well... When I joined the
Boy Scouts of Vietnam, my country was  torn  apart  by  the  war.
Everywhere  I  went, there were always fighting leftovers. It was
dangerous to travel, abeit going camping, but even so, we managed
to  have  wonderful  times,  troop  leaders were very creative in
finding places for kids to camp,  to  have  a  meeting  location.
Scout  meeting  was  always  outdoors,  in the open air. A lot of
times we went camping without a scoutmaster because of the  mili-
tary  draft. During my 6 years as a boy scout, I had three scout-
masters and their average age was about 19 years old.

I remember taking my Panther patrol (yes, a Blank Panther), on  a
trek  to a remote waterfall. Each member had to be separated by a
distant of 10 meters, so that a bobby trap grenade would not  de-
cimate  the whole patrol. I learned valuable survival skills from
the boy scouts, during the war, not only to help myself, but help
to  my family and other beings as well. Beside learning knots and
semaphores, we also learned camouflaging, how to recognize  booby
traps, different type of ordnance (by default), and servicing re-
fugee camps.  Servicing refugee camps was a constant activity for
the  troops and the posts. Sometimes the pack would chip in their
help in making greeting lines for some big  shots  who  come  and
visited  refugee  camps. During the Tet offensive of 1968, my ex-
plorer post managed a makeshift refugee camp  in  Dalat  province
for  more than 3 months. This included security for people in the
camp (A lot of problems came from rowdy bands of government  sol-
diers trying to intimidate the female refugees, but when they saw
the scouts, they thought another military unit was  handling  the
refugee  camp). This also included searching for food (mostly, by
contacting GI units and the government in the area) for refugees.
Sanitation  was  always  the  biggest task of the day: Talk about
cleaning the out-houses for refugees!!!  At  times  we  organized
'dare-devil'  teams  to go into battle areas to retrieve civilian
and, sometimes, military bodies to bury or to take  back  to  the
city morgue. The morgue was always full during those days. In the
city, there was another youth group organized by the  Red  Cross,
and we competed with them in collecting the wounded and the dead,
along with other war trophies.  One time we collected a  "broken"
bomb  and  decorated  it  as a gate for our refugee camp.  It was
quite a deterrent for those who passed through that gate.

The war also took a personal toll in my life. My very first  cub-
master  was  blown  up  in his Jeep from an ambush. I went to his
funeral without seeing his face since there were nothing left  to
see. The second cubmaster was killed and left behind his pregnant
wife and two small girls. The third cubmaster  spent  almost  ten
year  in  the  re-education  camps. My first patrol leader volun-
teered for Airborne division at the age of 17, and came back in a
light casket.  His mother told me that after he was killed in the
DMZ area, he had to wait for a few months for  transport  of  his
body  back  home...  There  were  so many Vietnamese scouts in my
area that I know never made it to 18th  year  birthday.  Frankly,
without scouting, it would be very hard for me to find solace for
those senseless killings. Looking back, I admired all of my scout
leaders.  They  were true men (unfortunately, I never had any fe-
male leaders, even at cub age) of their word,  who  lived  up  to
scout  promises  and  scout  laws.   At times, they weighed their
lives light as a feather, but sometimes, as heavy as the  biggest
mountain in the north.  At that time, deserting from the Army was
rampant, but I rarely saw or heard of scouts were deserters.

Even in that bloody environment, I had a  blast  when  I  was  in
scouting.  I  had so much opportunities to learn about myself and
about other people. Nowhere else in life have I found  such  deep
and emotional relationships. It was not unusual that my whole pa-
trol attended Christmas mass with one Catholic member, although 6
out  7  members  were  Buddists.  My favorite patrol member was a
Chinese who came to the scout meeting with Chinese  goodies  from
his  father.  Many times my patrol went camping near the National
Military Academy so that at night times, we  could  look  at  the
sky,  watching  the  yellow flares in searching for communist in-
truders. During teen age, I traveled up and  down  the  coast  of
Vietnam,  hitch  hiking with two other scouts to the Delta areas.
We spent two days in a notorious, scary Cambodia village near the
border  with Vietnam, and had a chance to observe how people were
trafficking at the border. A few times, my troop went camping out
of town by trekking to the military airstrip. We got in there be-
cause we knew well the soldiers at  the  entry  post.  Besides  I
heard  that the American Senior Military Advisor there was also a
former eagle scout. We waited for the  next  empty  cargo  plane,
asked  the  pilot  where is his next stop, then asked for a ride.
Many times we had to camp at the dirt spot nearby. It was  adven-
turous and a lot of fun, and a lot of disapointment too.

During the Spring offensive of 1972, I went to the national  jam-
boree with more than 10,000 scouts camping in one of the very hot
spots near Saigon.  The GI Star and Stripes newspaper  called  it
the  "Warboree".  Every  night, there were skirmishes between two
ranger batailons and the local communists from  the  neighborhood
village.(It  was possible that some of the local boys also parti-
cipated in the Jamboree). The opening night  was  festooned  with
"Fire  Dragons"  tracers,  shot  from  C-47  aircraft circulating
ahead. Laying their backs on a  green  grass  field,  the  scouts
tried  to  decifer  beautiful  colors  from  different flares, or
'pfuff pfuff' noise from different types of gunship  helicopters.
Unforgettable experiences!!

The Boy Scouts of Vietnam Association, ceased officially to exist
as  a  member  of the World Scout Bureau when the communists took
over the South in 1975, but thousands of  Vietnamese  still  join
scout  organizations  in  the country they resided in. Many scout
units were formed in the refugee camp  in  Philippine,  Malaysia,
Singapore, Thailand and Hong Kong.  I believe in France, there is
an official Vietnamese  Scout  Association  operating  under  the
Scout  Federation  of France. It is estimated that there are more
than 3000 Vietnamese scouts in Vietnamese scout units world-wide.

In 1990, we had the Third International  Vietnamese  Jamboree  in
Cutter  Camp, Boulder Creek, California, with more than 700 Viet-
namese scouts from 6 countries. The event was also to commemorate
the 60th anniversary of the Boy Scout of Vietnam.


--------------------------------
From: macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener)
Subject: Scouting in Switzerland and Liechtenstein
Date: Wed, 25 Mar 1992 12:38:55 GMT

_Branch_                _Age Range_   _Uniform_
Wolves (Cub Scouts)        6 - 12      blue
Scouts                    10 - 18      beige
Rover/Ranger Scouts       17 - 25+     dark red
Leaders                   18 - 30+     dark green

The reason why the age groups overlap is because we move a kid to the
next level according to his/her maturity, not his/her age.

Our organization is mixed at all levels. The only thing that still
reminds of the old separation between girl and boy scouts is that girl
Rovers are (still) called Rangers.

The young age of our leaders is a tradition. Even members of the
district or national committees are rarely older than 30. The result:
more freedom at the unit level, no discrimination, and a very important
experience in leadership for  young people.

Special scout units include Sea Scouts around the major lakes and PTA
scouts for handicapped kids (PTA means "scouts despite all" in german).

The mandatory parts of our uniform are the shirt, the tie, any kind of
good hiking boots, a firelighter and a swiss army knife. Optional parts
are belt, scout jeans, hat, dagger, etc. A kid receives his/her tie and
vulgo (scout name) from his unit leader in an initiation ceremony.

Troops, patrols and packs meet every saturday afternoon for 3-4 hours.
We spend 98% of our time outside in the woods or in the field. I get
inside with my cubs three or four times a year, when the weather is
clearly unbearable (temperature below -25 Celsius or snowstorm).
Otherwise, we're outside.

The Swiss Scouting Movement is a member of J+S, a governmental
institution which promotes sports among youths. Camps for kids in the
12-18 age range are subsidized by J+S, and we also receive some basic
material (tents, denim square units, ropes) from J+S for these
occasions.  J+S is also deeply involved in leader training (because
unit leaders are basically special youth sport trainers).

A major challenge for the national committees (and every nationwide
company) is that Switzerland is divided in four language areas. As a
result, there's not too much documentation available from National.
There's no national scouting handbook per se. There's a handbook on
scouting techniques which is edited by our council and has become the
de facto reference book distributed by National. This book however
is purely technical and does not handle the human and ethical
aspects of scouting.

Every 'ordinary' scouting event is embedded into a story over here.
And the emphasis on story embedding is even higher for cub scouts, the
idea being for the kids to live an adventure instead of watching them
on TV. We end up doing the standard scouting activities out in the
woods, but the reason why we do these activities and the results they
lead to relate to pure fantasy. So when we mounted a giant eight-side
"Berliner" tent out of 62 x 62" tent units, it was because we needed a
flying saucer to escape from the planet Gorgonzola, and when we built
a hang-bridge over the river, it was the gate between the spacelab and
the station Mir, with millions of miles of empty space around us.


--------------------------------
From: per@aber.ac.uk (Peter David Roberts)
Subject: Scouting in the UK
Date: 3 Apr 92 11:27:34 GMT

Scouting in the UK still follows many of the ideas of the origional
movement Over the years the age ranges and training awards have
varied and in the last 18 months the Scout Association has agreed
that if sections wish to be co-ed they may be. The Girl Guide
movement is separate and I shall leave someone else to post on
their format. UK Scouting is divided into 5 sections which I
consider in turn

Beavers
age range 6-8
no specific training program aimed at fun and companionship and
organised soley by the leaders. Lodge based.

Cub Scouts
age range 8-10.5
three stage training program(can't remember full details as it
changed  recently) also a diverse range of proficiency badges.
Run by the leaders but with inputs from the sixers in a sixers
council. Six based

Scouts
age range 10.5 - 15.5
The main training section with 4 stages of training leading up to the
Chiefs Scout Award. Again a wide range of proficiency badges available.
Program is decided by the patrol leaders council and put into practice
by the PL's with the help and expertise of the leaders. Patrol based
with emphasis on cooperation.

Venture Scouts
age range 15.5 - 20
The final of the training sections only two awards available the
highest being  the training award in scouting the Queens Scout Award.
Emphasis is on self  developement and community help. The unit is run
by an executive of its members and the main task of the leader is as
an advisor and keeping everything legal.

Scout Fellowship
age range 20+
Section usualy at the district level available to anyone who wishes to
stay involved in scouting but without taking out a leadership warrent.
Generaly more social than scouting but offering a very good source of
experience for scouters in need of specific help.

Link
age range 20+
Similar to Scout fellowship only orgainsed by the Guide association
Link also tend to be more active with social events.  Link is an
international organisation.

SSAGO (Student Scout and Guide organisation)
Based around Universities and colleges, these cater for Students.
Programmes are both active and social much like a Venture Scout or
Ranger Guide unit.

The last three sections take part in major organised scout events
(Competition hikes etc.)


--------------------------------
From: bcockburn@acorn.co.uk (Bruce Cockburn)
Subject: Scouting in the UK - F.S.E.

ORG:  F.S.E. (Fe`de`ration du Scoutisme Europe`en) of Great Britain.

The F.S.E. is a very small traditional Scout organisation and has
nothing to do  with the mainstream organisation "The Scout
Association".   The F.S.E. of GB is a member of an organisation
called C.E.S. (Confederation of European Scouts), a pan-european
organisation which binds traditional Scouting organisations together
across Europe.

National Commissioner:
   Mr Richard Hyde,
   68 Glebe Road,
   Deanshanger,
   Milton Keynes,
   England,  MK19  6LU

Section: Wolf Cubs
Wolf Cubs (often shortened to just Cubs, but never referred to
as Cub Scouts) is for boys and girls between the ages of seven and
ten and a half years.  Cubs are organised into "Sixes", with a Sixer
and a Second.  The Cub syllabus is as follows:

   Tenderpad, tests to be passed before Investiture.
   First star, Second star, Proficiency Badges, Wolf Cub Award.
   Leaping Wolf, only Wolf Cub badge to worn on the Scout uniform.

[Wolf Cub Law and Promise: see separate article at the end of this FAQ -- Ed.]

Section: Scouts
Scouts is for boys and girls between the ages of ten and sixteen years.
Scouts are organised into Patrols each patrol has a Scout as the Patrol Leader
and the Assistant Patrol Leader.  The Scout syllabus is as follows:

   Tenderfoot, tests to be passed before Investiture.
   Second Class, First Class, Proficiency Badges, Explorer Cord.
   Baden-Powell Award, the only Scout Badge worn on the Rover or
   Leader's uniform.

[Scout Law and Promise: see separate article at the end of this FAQ -- Ed.]

Section: Rovers
Rovers is the section for boys and girls over the age of 16, there
is no upper age limit.  The Rover syllabus is as follows;

   Ramblers Badge, Project Badge.

Rovers use and live by the same Law and Promise as the Scout
section.
--------------------------------
From:  rickcl@POGO.WV.TEK.com, rcraig@library.carleton.ca
Subject:  Scouting in Canada
Also-From:   Patrick De Gagne, Peter Choi, Bill Hately
Date: 29 Sep 93 23:55

Beavers 4-7

Well, Beavers are the youngest members of Scouting.  They're being
introduced to the movement thru games and fun.  Their Moto is "Sharing
Sharing Sharing". Adult members take care of all the work. Colony
leaders are responsible for delivering the program including taking the
youth members on camps.  Parents are usually encouraged to participate
in the program and are required at camp outings.


Wolf Cubs 8-11

The Canadian Cub program is similar to Cubbing in the UK.
(They are not subdivided as in the US.  Cubs play games and perform
activities that involve more instruction than what is offered in the
Beaver program.

The program, through its motto encourages youth to "do their best" and to
be responsible for what they do and say.  Members of the pack participate
in choosing program activities through "Sixer Councils".  The program is
on the most part run by the Pack Leaders with some help from the youth.
Cubs camp more often, in tents during Fall, Spring and Summer, but only in
cabins during Winter and extreme cold weather at other times of the year.


Scouts 11-14

Most of their activities are geared towards badge work, instruction and
camps.  They still play, but not much.  Scouts camp quite often and
almost always in tents or in shelter.  As well, the Scouts are
responsible with the duties of camp.  Scouts participate in small group
activites through which values of team work and the importance of each
member is taught.


Venturers 15-17

Venturers are young men and women who are challenged to democratically
plan and run their own activities. The group is accountable to an
Advisor who does just that...he advises. The Company is a group of
typically 5-10 teens (co-ed), The size varies having an executive
consisting of (but not all) President, Vice-President, Secretary,
Treasurer and a Quartermaster.

The Venturers Motto is "Challenge". Meetings vary in the operation from
"executive meetings" similar to that of a board of directors to "social
meetings" such as games or activities nights. They do all their planing
themselves, they plan trips, camps, fund raisers, social events... The
advisor is there to provide guidance and assistance and to ensure that
Scouting and legal obligations are met.


Rovers 18-26

The oldest youth members of Scouting (not counting leaders of course!).
Their Moto is "Service".   Individually or in small teams, Rovers pursue
service activities contributing to personal development.  Crews are
provided guidance through an Advisor who assists and ensures that Scouting
and legal obligations are met.  Rovers participate in social camping
activites called Moots.  A moot is a gathering of their peers for camping,
fun and friendship.


In November of 1993, the National Council of Scouts Canada officially
made Scouts Canada a fully co-ed organization.  For years, Venturers and
Rovers have been Co-ed and for the past three years,(since 1989), the
other sections have been co-ed on an experimental basis.

--------------------------------
From: snippala@toty.joensuu.fi (Satu Nippala)
Subject: Scouting in Finland

[Note: This article has been edited, leaving only the essential
       parts. The full article can be retrieved from ftp.ethz.ch
       in the directory rec.scouting/countries -- Danny]

			GUIDING AND SCOUTING IN FINLAND

Guiding and Scouting were established simultaneously in Finland
in 1910.   The two separate Unions were merged to form a single
National Organization in  1972. The assosiation is called The Guides
and Scouts of Finland (Suomen  Partiolaiset - Finlands Scouter ry)
and consists of 18 Member Districts,   one of which is swedish-
speaking (Finlands Svenska Scouter rf - The Swedish-speaking
Guides and Scouts in Finland). The organization is affiliated to
the World Organisation of the Scout Movement (WOSM) as well as to
the World Assosiation of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts (WAGGGS).

The membership figure including all age-groups is around 80,000.
The members  belong to about 850 local troops of 20 to 300 members,
which form the Districts (at 10 to 140 troops per district) .
There are Guides and Scouts from the southernmost tip of the country
to far beyond the Artic Circle.

GUIDING / SCOUTING PROMOTES :
	*a positive attitude towards religion
	*loyalty to one's country
	*international understanding
	*the ideal of service
	*respect for the convictions of others
	*responsability for one's own life and the environment
	*involvement in social activities
	*a healthy way of life

THE WAYS AND MEANS BY WHICH GUIDING AND SCOUTING WORKS :
	*Ideals and Promise
	*the Patrol System
	*a Program that advances by progressive stages
	*training for Leadership duties at different levels
	*teamwork
	*learning by doing
	*the use of creative imagination
	*games and activating projects
	*outdoor activities
	*activities with international and/or religional emphasis

LEVELS

(7)-10 years : Wolf Cubs ("Sudenpentu")

Wolf cubs meet in packs of 10-20 kids. Some of the packs are  mixed,
the boys and girls sharing all activities at all stages. A Sudenpentu
Leader is over 16, with a required training and experience background.
The programme is sub-divided into five progressive stages:
	*Welcome
	*Pikkuhukka (pet name for a wolf cub)
	*Hukka (pet name of folk origin for a wolf)
	*Susi (wolf in finnish)
	*Transition stage

The Finnish Sudenpentu-members participate in traditional Guiding and
Scouting activities: outings, camps in the summer, crosscountry skiing
and skating in the winter, games, excursions, day or weekend trips,
competitions, handicrafts etc. The children also take part in various
service projects.

10-14 years : Scouts ("Vartioik{inen")

Translated, Vartioik{inen means "at Patrol age". The Programme for this
age-group is diversified  -- the way it is carried out depends on the
interests of each patrol.
Programme and Pins:
The programme for the Vartioik{inen - level is divided into three
progressive stages: the Third Class, the Second Class and finally
the First Class. There is also a number of interest badges.
The badges are made of metal. The third class badge is the symbol
of Scout movement, the second one is simply with the text :
Be Prepared and the First one is the Finnish lion - our states
symbol on the scoutflower.
The Patrol leader is called Vartionjohtaja, or VJ for short.
Their programme is divided into five sectors:
	*Guide and Scout ideology, their ideal of service
	*outdoor and camping skills
	*knowledge of Guiding and Scouting and Society
	*nature and its conservation
	*handicrafts, skills

over 15 years of age : Rangers & Rovers ("Vaeltaja")

Vaeltaja operate in groups of varying sizes.  Their leader is often
of the same age as the eldest members in his or her group. The group
plans its own programme. All Vaeltaja activities are based on developing
a positive attitude towards service. Hobbies are also very important. The
programme is based on six ideals:
	*knowledge of Guiding and Scouting and Society
	*service
	*outdoor activities, physical exercise
	*hobbies
	*nature and its conservation
	*Guide and Scout ideals
The ideal of service can be realized e.g. by participating in
voluntary rescue service teams. International activities
are also an important aspect of Guiding and Scouting, especially at
this level.


SPECIAL SCOUT UNITS include Sea-, Handicap- ("Sisu") and Radio Guiding
and Scouting units.

SPECIAL PROGRAMMES include the promotion of international understanding
and the Child and Youth Political Programme ("Nuopo").

--------------------------------
From: rusa@diku.dk (Bjarne Steensgaard)
Subject: Scouting in Denmark

In Denmark we have several Scout associations; the major ones being
The Danish Guide and Scout Association (Danish: Det Danske
Spejderkorps = DDS), YMCA Scouts, and YWCA Scouts.  Minor
organizations are The Baptist Scouts of Denmark (Danish: Dansk Baptisk
Spejderkorps) and The Yellow Scouts (I do not know if these still
exist!).  There is one additional uniformed organization called
FDF/FPF, but they insist on NOT being scouts (they originate from the
British Boy's Brigade) even though they have a program that resembles
the scout programs very much.  They do however insist more on
involving the whole family.

DDS is mixed boys and girls.  There used to be two separate
organizations, but they merged in 1973.  The YMCA Scouts is for both
boys and girls, but I believe there is still a majority of boys.  The
YWCA Scouts is only for girls.  FDF/FPF is mixed.

The uniform of DDS Scouts is dark blue.  The uniform of YMCA/YWCA
scouts are dark green.  All three organizations supplement the uniform
with a neckerchief according to the groups choice.  The uniform of
FDF/FPF is light blue without a neckerchief.

I believe that there around 25.000 members of each of the three major
scouting organizations out of a population of 5.000.000 people in
Denmark. FDF/FPF have a similar membership figure as far as I recall.

DDS is (I believe) the only Danish scout organization that does not
require religion to be a part of scouting.  The only requirement being
that the scouts "Find their own faith and respect others'" (part of
the Scout Law). All the other associations are based on Christianity.

DDS use the following age division guidelines:
	6-8: Micro Scouts
	8-10: Mini Scouts
	10-12: Junior Scouts
	12-16: Scouts
	16-23: Senior Scouts
The age-divisions are only suggestions.  Approximately one-fourth of
the groups does not distinguish between mini and junior scouts and
have both age groups in the same pack.

The other Scouting organizations have slightly different age divisions
and generally use more inspiring names.  In general the youngest
scouts are around 6 and the oldest are above 20.

All Scouting organizations in Denmark are based on groups.  A group is
usually a combination of a unit from each of the age groups.  It is
normal to stay in the same group in all of your scouting life.
Leaders move from group to group, but scouts seldom do.

In DDS, the groups are organized in districts (divisions) that must
have at least 500 scouts.  The districts are combined in areas.  I
cannot remember how many areas there are, but a guess would be between
5 and 10.

Leaders are from almost all age groups.  It is not unusual that a unit
have leaders of quite different age.  Leaders are both old scouts and
parents.  I believe there is a majority of non-parents.  It is not a
tradition that parents follow their kids through the different age
groups; instead they tend to stay in the same unit a number of years.

There is no notion of ranks (like Star, Life, Eagle in the BSA) in any
of the major scouting organizations in Denmark.  A few groups
implement something on their own, but the general emphasis is not on
advancement.  There are merit badges for mini scouts, junior scouts,
and normal scouts, but in many places these are not very used.  In my
pack, the cub scouts (mini AND junior scouts) rarely have more than 5
merit badges, of which one is the "knife award" that they have to take
before they are given a scout name.

--------------------------------
From:  rickc@POGO.WV.TEK.com
Subject:  Cub Scouting in Canada


This is from "Scouting Try It!" published by Scouts Canada.  It talks about
all their levels of Scouting.  I will just type the sections on Beavers and
Wolf Cubs.  The text in brackets are my notes.  Their address for more
information is:
    Scouts Canada
    National Council
    1345 Baseline Rd
    PO Box 5151, Stn. F
    Ottawa, Ont CANADA
    K2C 3G7

Beavers (5-7 years)

[From Stevie] "In my neighbourhood most activites are for older kids so when
my best friend Ross told me about Beavers I ran home from school and asked
Mom to sign me up right away.  The first meeting was strange because all the
other kids had vests and hats with tails on them.  Now I don't think it's so
strange, actualy it's really neat!  We do tail slaps, make crafts, go on
outings and best of all, Ross and I are in the same lodge."

Wolf Cubs (8-10 years)

[From Ryan] "When I was little my Dad would tell me stories about when he was
young.  His favourite story is about the time he went to a Cub camp and the
Cubs in his six [den] thought they had tricked Akela [Cubmaster] into taking
them on a late night hike to watch for UFO's.  When they got to the lookout
the other leaders were there with hot chocolate and cookies.  All along Akela
had planned it anyway.  So when I went to my first Cub camp I wasn't
surprised when our Akela woke us up at midnight.  But I didn't expect to be
introduced to the Scouts from our group [One unit from each age is in a
group.  This way the Scouts feed into the next old unit.] who were set up in
the next valley ready to give us a great campfire and sing song.  Cubbing is
fun, I already have 2 stars."

--------------------------------
From: michell@canada.hp.com
Subject: Scouting on the Air: Radio Amateur Scout Technical Info
Date: 15 Feb 93 16:05:59 PST

The information I have is that there are two International Scout Nets
operating regularly - the European one on 14.290khz on Saturdays at
0930 GMT and the World net on Saturdays on 21.360khz at 1800 GMT.  I
received this via JOTA in 1988 (I have been organizing a JOTA station
for the District for the last 8 years and have been an Amateur Radio
for the last year).  I have tried listning in to the World net a few
times with no luck, I would like to know if it is still on.

--------------------------------
From: macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener)
Subject: Scouting on the Air: JOTA (World Jamboree On The Air)
Also-From: David Miller, Peter Swynford
Date: 3 Mar 93 10:23:38


JOTA is a yearly worldwide scout jamboree (meeting) on radio-amateur
frequencies. The event takes place on the third weekend of October.
In 1993, it is scheduled on October 16-17.

As a first for 1993, a JOTI (Jamboree On The Internet) will be held
as off-stage event during the JOTA. To participate, connect to the
Internet Relay Chatter (IRC) by using the irc client on your local
host or by telnetting to <host name to be supplied>. There will be
a channel named "Scouting" (I think) where JOTers will meet
during that time.

JOTA is a worldwide event.  Units may operate for 48 hours, from
Saturday 00.00 h until Sunday 24.00 h local time.  Due to the world's
time differences, this period is not the same for everyone.  To
determine the times at which you can most likely contact a certain part
of the world, calculate a time difference and ask your amateur radio
operator about the radio propagation prediction (a sort of weather
forecast for radio waves).

Any authorized frequency may be used to establish a contact.
Just call "CQ JAMBOREE", or answer Scout stations who are calling
to establish a contact. National radio regulations must be strictly
observed (in most countries, a licensed amateur radio operator must
be present and a logbook must be held).  To find each other easily,
listen on the agreed World Scout Frequencies listed below.

Another hint to inprove your success rate: in the weeks preceding
the event, keep an eye on rec.scouting for other stations and arrange
meeting times and frequencies with them in advance.


                      World Scout Frequencies
               Band    SSB (phone)          CW (morse)
               80m      3.740 & 3.940 MHz    3.590 MHz
               40m      7.090 MHz            7.030 MHz
               20m     14.290 MHz           14.070 MHz
               17m     18.140 MHz           18.080 MHz
               15m     21.360 MHz           21.140 MHz
               12m     24.960 MHz           24.910 MHz
               10m     28.990 MHz           28.190 MHz

                Also worth listening to in the UK
                2m    144.325 MHz SSB
                2m    145.325 MHz FM

World Federation of Great Towers
================================
The World Federation of Great Towers (WFGT) is an organization in which
large towers all over the world co-operate for special activities.  It
was founded in 1989 with the aim to stimulate communication and
exchanges of all sort between the people of the world.

The WFGT invites Scouts to take part in the JOTA from the top of their
Towers.  Amateur radio stations will be installed on the towers and
professional communication facilities to contact the other towers will
be made available also.

The following towers are expected to take part: Centrepoint Tower in Sydney
(Australia), Donauturm in Vienna (Austria), CN Tower in Toronto
(Canada), Empire State Building in New York (USA), Tour Eiffel in Paris
(France), Euromast in Rotterdam (Netherlands), Ostankino Tower in Moscow
(Russia), Blackpool Tower in Blackpool (United Kingdom) and British
Telecom Tower in London (United Kingdom).

Some of these stations may use special call signs as well.  It is
usually planned to establish a television link between New York, Paris and
Moscow at some time during the weekend.  This will make it possible for
the scouts at those towers to have a forum discussion.  Further details
are not yet known, but can be obtained from the World Bureau's radio
station HB9S during the JOTA.


--------------------------------
From: chris@scout.demon.co.uk (Christopher T Wilkinson)
Subject: Network Russia

After the downfall of the USSR, scout units are emerging again in all
the former Soviet republics. Scout UK has launched several programs to
help the development of scouting in Russia. One of the visible products of
this project is a publication called Network Russia.

Network Russia's goal is to encourage assistance to Russian Scouting
and to ease relations and exchanges.  You can get at least 3 copies of the
printed edition each year by sending 2-50 to Network Russia, Oxfordshire
County Scout Association, 22nd Oxford Scout HQ, Meadow Lane, Donnington,
Oxford OX4 4BJ. To get a copy of the premium issue, ftp to ftp.ethz.ch and
look in the directory /rec.scouting/misc/ for the file "network-russia-9306".
--------------------------------
From: johnw@psychnet.psychol.utas.edu.au (John Wanless)
Also-From: Bob Kenyon, Jan Pharo, Pam Backstrom, Bruce Cockburn, Dr J R Stockton et al.
Subject: Re: Laws and Promises around the world
Date: 12 Nov 1993 (update)

Fellow Scouters,

These are a listing of the  Promise and Laws that have been posted to
me and Rec.Scouting with corrections as at 1/11/93 [Plus additions
as of 93/11/12 -- Ed.]

Again I apologise in advance for any further mistakes and ask for
copies of any variations that you can send me which I will post up in
addition to these given. You can email me direct direct  or post to
Rec.Scouting.

I am also missing the following, can anyone email these to me please,
Australian Browie & Guide Laws & or promises
Canadian Scout Laws
Czech Scout Laws
Finland Scout Laws
Greek Scout Laws

*** Australian Cub Promise (8-10 yrs)
On my honour,
I promise that I will do my best
to do my duty to my God, and
to the Queen of Australia
to help other people, and
to live by the Cub Scout Law

*** Australian Scout Promise (10-14 yrs)
(as from September 1st 1989)
On my honour,
I promise that I will do my best,
to do my duty to my God, and
to the Queen of Australia
to help other people, and
to live by the Scout Law

*** Canadian Beaver Promise (5-7 yrs)
I promise to love God
and to help take care of the world

*** Canadian Cub Promise (8-10 yrs)
I promise to do my best
to love and serve God
to do my duty and to the Queen
to keep the the law of the Wolf Cub pack
and to do a good turn for someone every day

*** Canadian Scout Promise (11-13 yrs)
On my honour,
I promise to do my best
to love and serve God,
my Queen, my country, and my fellow man,
and to live by the Scout Law.

*** Canadian Venturer Promise (14-17 yrs)
On my honour
I promise to develop myself so that I may better
  * love and serve God,
  * respect and help my fellowman,
  * honour and render service to my country.

*** Canadian Rover/Scouter Promise
On my honour,
I promise to do my best
To do my Duty to God and the Queen,
To help other people at all times,
And to carry out the spirit of the Scout Law.

*** Chile Scout Promise
I promise on my honor
to do all that I can
to do my duty to God and my Country,
to help others at all times,
and to obey the Scout Law.

*** Czech Promise
On my honour, I promise that I will do my best,
to love my country, Republic of Czechoslovakia,
and serve it faithfully in all times,
to fulfil all my duties and keep the Scout Law,
day & night to be ready to help my fellow men
(God might help me to do so)

*** Finland Promise
I will love,
my God and my fellowmen,
my country and mankind,
in my life I will carry out Scout ideals.

*** Greek Promise
On my honour I promise,
to do my duty to God and the country,
to help every person at all times,
and to obey the Scout Law.                   .

*** Norwegian Scout Promise
I promise to do my best to serve God,
help others and live according to the Scout Law.

*** South African Promise
On my honour, I promise that I will do my best,
to do my duty to God and my country,
to help other people at all times,
and to obey the Scout Law.

*** Swedish Scout Promise
we have a scout promise that says (in english transation)
I promise to do my best to follow the scout law.

*** Swiss Scout Promise:
I promise that I will do my best to live by the Scout Law.

(optional addendum for religious scouts:
I ask god and my friends to help me reach this goal).
Important note: None of the two texts play an important role in
the life of a swiss scout.  A scout promise is considered as something
very special. It is only meaningful if you really, really, really
plan to keep that promise.
It's a good guideline for the scout leader, though.
In day-to-day life, a swiss scout learns to live by the law in a
very natural way, by following the example of his/her leader and
his/her companions.

*** UK Scout Promise (B-P's original)
On my honour I promise that I will do my best,
to do my duty to God and the King,
to help other people all the time,
to obey the Scout Law.

*** UK Scout Promise (current)
On my honour,
I promise that I will do my best
to do my duty to God
and to the Queen,
to help other people
and to keep the Scout Law.

*** UK (?) Scout Promise (F.S.E.)
(a European scouting body in Great Britain)
On my honour I promise that I will do my best,
to do my duty to God, the Queen,
my country and Europe,
to help other people at all times,
and to obey the Scout Law.

*** UK (?) Wolf Cub Promise (F.S.E.)
I promise to do my best, To do my duty to God, the Queen,
my Country and Europe, To keep the law of the Wolf Cub
Pack, And be helpful each and every day.

*** USA Promise (Boy Scouts of America)
On my honor, I will do my best, to do my duty,
to God and my country, and to obey the Scout Law,
to help other people at all times,
to keep myself physically strong ,
mentally awake, and morally straight.

*** USA Promise (Girl Scouts of the USA)
On my Honor, I will try to serve God and my country
to help people at all times and to live by the Girl Scout Law

*** Australian Cub Scout Laws
Cub Scouts are loyal and obedient
Cub Scouts do not give in to themselves

*** Australian Scout Laws
A Scout is trustworthy
A Scout is loyal
A Scout is helpful
A Scout is friendly
A Scout is cheerful
A Scout is considerate
A Scout is thrifty
A Scout is courageous
A Scout is respectful
A Scout cares for the environment

*** Chile Scout Law
The Scout places his honor in being worthy of trust.
The Scout is loyal.
The Scout is useful and helps others, without thinking of compensation.
The Scout is a friend to all and a brother to any Scout.
The Scout is courteous and gentlemanly.
The Scout loves Nature and protects animals and plants.
The Scout smiles and sings in difficult times.
The Scout is obedient.
The Scout is thrifty.
The Scout is clean and pure in thought, word and deed.

*** Norwegian Scout Law
A Scout is open to God and His word;
A Scout accepts responsibility for himself and others;
A Scout is helpful and conciderate;
A Scout is a good friend;
A Scout is honest and thrustworthy;
A Scout knows and protects the Nature;
A Scout thinks and acts independently, and tries to understand other people;
A Scout does his best in difficulties and troubles;
A Scout is thrifty;
A Scout works for peace and understanding between people.
('himself' also means 'herself')

*** South African Scout Law
Our actual laws are based on an abbreviated version of the British laws:
1.  A Scout's Honour is to be trusted
2.  A Scout is loyal.
3.  A Scout's duty is to be useful and to help others
4.  A Scout is a friend to all and a brother to every other Scout
5.  A Scout is courteous
6.  A Scout is a friend to animals
7.  A Scout obeys orders
8.  A Scout smiles and whistles under all difficulties
9.  A Scout is thrifty
10. A Scout is clean in thought, word and deed.

We use a rhyme to remember the laws:
  "Trusty, loyal, helpful,
   Brotherly, courteous, kind,
   Obedient, Smiling, Thrifty,
   Clean in body and mind"

*** Swiss Scout Law (english translation, with no warranties)
A scout is honest towards him-/herself and the others
A scout stands to his/her belief [whichever it is]
and respects the belief of others.
A scout takes care of the nature and all living beings
A scout helps wherever he/she can
A scout is a good companion
A scout keeps his/her self-control
A scout can integrate him-/herself in the community
A scout overcomes difficulties with humor
A scout can renounce
A scout is ready [willing] to take responsibility.

*** UK Scout Law
1. A Scout is to be trusted.
2. A Scout is loyal.
3. A Scout is friendly and considerate.
4. A Scout belongs to the world-wide family of Scouts.
5. A Scout has courage in all difficulties.
6. A Scout makes good use of time and is careful of
   possessions and property.
7. A Scout has self-respect and respect for others.

*** UK Cub Law
Cub Scouts always do their best, think of others
before themselves and do a good turn every day.

*** UK (& other?) Cub Law (F.S.E.)
The Cub honours his parents and obeys his leaders,
Always does his best and is a friend to all.

*** UK (& other?) Scout Law (F.S.E.)
1.  A Scout's honour is to be trusted.
2.  A Scout is loyal to his Queen, his Country, his
    Scouters, his Parents, his Employers, and those under him
3.  A Scout's duty is to be useful and to help others.
4.  A Scout is a friend to all, and a brother to every other
    Scout, no matter to what country, class or creed the other belongs.
5.  A Scout is courteous.
6.  A Scout is a friend to animals and to all other created things.
7.  A Scout obeys the orders of his parents, Patrol Leader,
    or Scout Master without question.
8.  A Scout smiles and whistles under all difficulties.
9.  A Scout is thrifty.
10. A Scout is clean in thought, word and deed.

*** USA Scout Law (Boy Scouts of America)
A Scout is...
   Trustworthy,
   Loyal,
   Helpful,
   Friendly,
   Courteous,
   Kind,
   Obedient,
   Cheerful,
   Thrifty,
   Brave,
   Clean, and
   Reverent.

*** USA Scout Law (Girl Scouts of the USA)
I will do my best:
   to be honest
   to be fair
   to help where I am needed
   to be cheerful
   to be friendly and considerate
   to be a sister to every Girl Scout
   to respect authority
   to use resources wisely
   to protect and improve the world around me
   to show respect for myself and other through
      my words and actions

*** Rover Prayer
By the spirits of the just,
Made perfect in their suffering,
Teach us in our turn Oh Lord,
To serve thee as we aught,
To give and not to count the cost,
To fight and not to heed the wounds,
To toil and not to seek for rest,
To labour and not to seek for any reward,
Save that of knowing that we do thy will.

-------------------------------- End of FAQ #2 --------------------------------
