Newsgroups: rec.scouting,rec.answers,news.answers
Path: senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!xlink.net!scsing.switch.ch!bernina!macman
From: macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener)
Subject: rec.scouting FAQ  #6: Cub Scout Leader Hints
Message-ID: <scouts-cubs_756184503@bernina.ethz.ch>
Followup-To: poster
Keywords: scout wolf cub pack faq
Sender: macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener)
Supersedes: <scouts-cubs_753592504@bernina.ethz.ch>
Organization: Pfadi Glockenhof, 8001 Zurich, Switzerland
Date: Sat, 18 Dec 1993 03:15:08 GMT
Approved: news-answers@uunet.uu.net
Expires: Mon, 31 Jan 1994 03:15:03 GMT
Lines: 650
Xref: senator-bedfellow.mit.edu rec.scouting:8444 rec.answers:3386 news.answers:15943

Archive-name: scouting/6_cub-leader-hints
Last-Modified: 1993/10/22

This file contains a number of ideas for the Cub Scout Leaders.
It shows ways to reward your cub scouts for their behaviour and
attendance, how to deal with kids suffering from Attention Deficit
Disorder (ADD) and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD).
It also gives a couple of program ideas and games for your cub meetings, 
and general information on jungle book names and cub scout promises.
 
If you know a good idea that hasn't been included in this FAQ,
please do all of us the favour and post it on rec.scouting. Drop me
a copy too to make sure that I include it in this file.

This file is in digested format, like all FAQ files on this newsgroup.
If you're using nn as newsreader, type 'G %" to split the digest into 
individual postings. In bn or rn, typing control-G should cause the 
reader to skip to the next posting within this file.

There are nine FAQ files in the rec.scouting FAQ series. The FAQ files
are posted in regular intervals (one file every three or four days) 
on rec.scouting, rec.answers and news.answers. They can also be
retrieved through anonymous FTP from ftp.ethz.ch (path: rec.scouting/).

As the FAQ files are updated regularly, make sure that you have the 
latest copy in your hands. The release date of this FAQ is indicated
in the line starting with "Last-Modified:" at the top of this file.
Files older than three months should be considered as outdated.
 
This file or parts of it may be freely used, printed and re-distributed
as long as you enclose this paragraph and keep the references to the 
respective contributors and to the maintainer (listed below) intact.

-- Danny Schwendener         macman@bernina.ethz.ch
   Wolfsmeute Nidau/Glockenhof, Sihlstr. 33, CH-8001 Zurich, Switzerland

--------------------------------
From:  macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener)
Subject:  Cub recognitions - should we use them at all?
Date:  1 Mar 93 10:00:00

Whether cubs should be given awards or advancement ranks is a much
discussed item. Some will argue that kids are already overstressed 
at school so that an additional pressure in the free-time program is 
not productive. Others underline that a small reward is one of the
few very effective ways to boost the participation of the kids in
the program. I personally think that both sides have their good points.
There is, however, one thing you have to keep in mind all the time:

A reward is only a valid option if *all* kids are physically and mentally
able to obtain it. You should also be very careful not to create a
fault between a group of kids who always get all rewards and the rest
of the kids. 

The bottom line: If you use awards, use them with intelligence.

--------------------------------
Date:  Wed, 23 Sep 1992 10:31:01 -0700
From:  (Peter Van Houten) <Peter_Van_Houten@SIMULACRUM.WV.TEK.com>
Subject:  Cub Immediate recognition - Den Leader Hints

I know this has not been solicited, but here are some ideas for immediate
recognition for Cub Scout dens that have been working in my Pack, and others
that I have come in contact with.

1)  Arrowhead Necklace --

Using Dough Art dough cut out arrowheads.  Use a spoon to mark texture on
the face of the arrowhead.  Bake until hard.  Drill hole at top of arrowhead
for lace.  Paint arrowhead using Glossy Black spray paint (comes out looking
like obsedian).  Glue white/black feather to the back of the arrowhead, and
thread leather lace through hole.

You now have a recognition necklace the boys can wear and display how far
they are along on their Wolf or Bear trail.  I had the boys make their own
necklaces, but they couldn't start wearing them until they've completed the
Bobcat.  So the Arrowhead represents they've earned their Arrowhead.  As
they progress along the Wolf trail they receive a White Wolf's tooth (also
made from Dough Art) for each of the 12 Wolf requirements.  This can also be
used with Bear Claws for the Bear trail.  To help separate the teeth, the
boy can earn beads to go on his necklace.  A white bead for attending the
den meeting or pack meeting, a black bead for attending in uniform.  When
done you'll have a very impressive necklace (as well as, by having the boys
make them you are doing one of the arrow point achievements for making
something with a feather).

2)  Another tip for rewarding behavior, attendance, uniforming, etc. is to
have a grab box or treasure chest.  In the treasure chest you accumulate all
sorts of trinkets (pencils, cards, key rings, etc.) that they boys can
choose from when they've met your criteria.

For example:  All boys that show up in full uniform for a den meeting will
get to choose from the treasure chest.  Or the boys that pay their dues on
time get to choose something.  Maybe the boys have exemplified themselves
during the den meeting (your house isn't destroyed) and you want to reward
them.

So where do you get the trinkets?  Make friends first with every marketing
person you know (most of them are involved in scouting).  Companys give away
tons of stuff to promote their products, most of which is cheap and fun
(things like sun glasses, small footballs, pencils/pens, key rings,
stickers, buttons, hats, etc.).  Ask and ye shall receive.  Also, check out
the discount stores for cheap items, such as pencils with different style
erassers on them.  Check out garage sells for old souviners...these can be
very, very cheap.

Bottom line is that immediate recognition for achievement and behavior is
necessary to support future achievements and success.  KISMIF -- Keep it
Simple, Make it Fun!


--------------------------------
Date:  Thu, 15 Oct 1992 17:58:35 -0500
From:  (Peter Van Houten) <Peter_Van_Houten@SIMULACRUM.WV.TEK.com>
Subject:  Recognition Dinner Ideas


HELPING HAND AWARD -- Stuffed glove on a dowel rod for the person who always
lends a helping hand.

WET SPONGE AWARD -- A piece of sponge mounted on cardboard.  For the newest
leader who needs help soaking up all the new info in the Cub Scout program.

ON THE BALL AWARD -- A styrofoam ball with a pipe cleaner Cub Scout on top
for the energetic person who has it all together.

GOOD EGG AWARD -- An egg made out of felt mounted on a piece of cardboard
for the special person who has been a good sport by helping the pack.

BIG HEART AWARD -- A big stuffed heart pillow in red.  For someone who shows
real dedication to the Cub Scout program.

PURPLE HEART AWARD -- A big stuffed heart in purple, for anyone injured 'in
the line of duty'.

LIFE SAVER AWARD -- A roll of lifesavers mounted on cardboard.  This might
be for someone who has assisted the Pack with a problem.

FIRST AID AWARD -- Home made first aid kit for a dedicated unit leader.

GO-FOR AWARD -- Plastic or model car on a handmade trophy stand.  For the
person who picks up awards or runs errands for the Pack.

GO GETTER AWARD -- This is an inflated balloon full of 'Hot Air' for the "Go
Power for the Go Getter".

OLD FOSSIL AWARD -- A rock or an arrowhead for the person who has been in
scouting the longest.

BOUNCE AWARD -- A sheet of 'Bounce' fabric softener for the Den Leaders to
bounce back and to soften their hearts.

BRIGHT IDEA AWARD -- Spray a light bulb gold and mount to a plague.  Present
to the person who always has good ideas.

BANQUET AWARD -- A large wooden spoon painted Blue and Gold.  Attatch a
ribbon and present to the Chairman of the Blue and Gold Banquet.

GOLDEN PEAR AWARD -- Attatch a plastic fruit pear to a plaque.  Present to
the pair (Couple) who has done so much for the Pack.

LINK TO SCOUTING AWARD -- Attatch a few pieces of chainlink fence to a
plaque and present to the leader who has helped prepare the boys for Boy
Scouts.

GOLDEN KNOT AWARD -- This is a good award for a Cubmaster.  Use rope, tie an
overhand knot and spray gold.  Attatch to a plaque and award to the person
who has tied it all together.

MARF AWARD -- MARF (Maintain Absolute Rigid Flexibility).  Cut a piece of
wood or cardboard in an odd shape.  Put the letters M-A-R-F on it and
present to anyone who works with the boys.

--------------------------------
Date:         Wed, 19 Feb 1992 08:43:03 EDT
From:         "Larry W. Gracie" <NINRLWG@PEELE.BAS.NCSU.EDU>
              Jaana A Antikainen <jantikaicc.helsinki.fi>
Subject:      The Cub scout promise in other languages
 
THE PROMISE IN OTHER LANGUAGES
 
SPANISH:
 Yo prometo hacer todo lo posible para
 cumplir con mis deberes para con Dios y
 mi patria, para ayudar a los demas y obedecer
 la Ley del Pack.
 
FRENCH:
La promesse du Louveteau:
 Je promets de faire mon devoir de mon
 mieux envers Diey et ma patrie, d'etre
 honnete et d'obeir aux lois de mon groupe.
 
GERMAN:
Unser Versprechen heisst:
 Ich verspreche mein Bestes zu tun fur
 Gott and mein Vaterland, erlich zu sein
 und das Gesetz des "Pack's" zu befolgen.
 
ITALIAN:
La promessa del Lupetto:
 Io prometto di fare il possible, di fare il
 mio doverse a Dio e alla nazione di andare
 diritto e di obbedire la Legge del Gruppo.

 
FINNISH:
Lupaus                          The promise
Lupaan parhaani mukaan		I promise to do my best
rakastaa Jumalaani,		to love my God,
toteuttaa sudenpentujen lakia	to keep the cub law
ja olla toisille avuksi 	and to help other people
joka paiva.			every day.

In the last word, you should have two little dots on each "a", but I
seem to be unable to find this letter from my keyboard right now...

The "wolf cubs", "sudenpennut" in Finnish, are scouts aged 7-10. They
are organized as packs ("lauma"), there is usually 2 or 3 packs in every
troop ("lippukunta"). Cubs have weekly meetings, sometimes excursions and
campouts, They learn scouting and every day skills following a program,
which is right now changing, so I will tell more about it next year...

SWISS:
  Although officially there is a cub scout promise,
  cub leaders are discouraged to use them, because at
  the cub scout age, kids are just too young to keep
  the promise seriously. Leaders are however encouraged 
  to set up their individual pack law.

[Note: More information on how cub scouting is lived in foreign countries
 can be found in FAQ#2 'Scouting around the World' -- Danny]

--------------------------------
From: bcockburn@acorn.co.uk (Bruce Cockburn)
Subject: Jungle Book / cubs names (UK)
Date: 11 May 92 22:18:38 GMT

  The following may be of interest to scouters not familiar with the Jungle
Book nomenclature.  It is reproduced from the Gilcraft book entitled "Wolf
Cubs", my copy is dated 1948.

  This is a table of accepted pronunciations.  I have used the "*" character
to bracket text which was printed in an italic font.  The term <a-acute>
refers to a single character "a" with an acute accent over it.  It may help
to print this out if you can to aid understanding.


      Akela             Ah-k<a-acute>y-la*h*
      Bagheera          Ba*r*-gheer-a*h*
      Baloo             Baa-loo
      Bandarlog         B<u-acute>nder-loag
      Chil              Cheel
      Hathi             H<a-acute>*r*-ty
      Kaa               Ka*r*
      Mowgli            Mow(as in "now")-gly
      Nag               Na*r*g
      Rikki-tikki-tavi  Rikky-tikky-tay-vy
      Shere Khan        Share-kha*r*n
      Tabaqui           Tar-b<aacute>rk-i


  The following (also from the same source) is a list of "Jungle Names for
the Cub Pack".

      (i) Names held "Ex Officio"

      Akela                     Cubmaster.

      Baloo         }        
      Bagheera      }           Assistant Cubmasters.
      Raksha        }

      Black Plume   }
      Brown Tip     }
      Grey Brother  }           Sixers.
      Red Fang      }
      Tawny Fur     }
      WhiteClaw     }

      Sahi (the Porcupine)      Pack Scribe.

      White Hood                Pack Storekeeper.


      (ii) Names Awarded for Prowess in Cub Activities

      Ahdeek        (the Reindeer)            Team Games.
      Apukwa        (the Bulrush)             Weaving.
      Blue Smoke                              Signalling.
      Chil          (The Kite)                Singing.
      Crimson Arrow                           Throwing and catching.
      Dahinda       (the Bull-frog)           Leapfrog, cartwheels, etc.
      Ferao         (the Scarlet Woodpecker)  Woodwork.
      Golden Quill                            Artist.
      Hawkeye                                 Observation.
      Hiawatha                                All-round athletics.
      Iagoo         (the Story-teller)        Telling stories.
      Jacala        (the Crocodile)           Acting.
      Kaa           (the Python)              Tree-climbing.
      Karela        (the Bitter Vine)         Knotting.
      Keego         (the Fish)                Swimming.
      Keneu         (the Great War Eagle)     Running.
      Kotick        (the Seal)                Wrestling.
      Kwasin        (the Strong Man)          Boxing.
      Limmerskin    (the Wren)                Message-carrying.
      Little Beaver                           Lair-building.
      Mysa          (the Wild Buffalo)        Good hearing.
      Nag           (the Cobra)               First Aid.
      Nushka        ("Look!")                 Guide.
      Oonai         (the Wolf)                Reciting.
      Pukeena       (the Grasshopper)         High Jump.
      Scarlet Feather                         Fire-lighting.
      Sea Catch     (the Seal)                Diving.
      Shaw-shaw     (the Swallow)             Skipping.
      Singum        (the Lion)                Book-carrying.
      Rann          (the Eagle)               Good eyesight.
      Tilji-pho     (the Lark)                Musician.
      Toomai                                  Folk-dancing.
      Wabeeno       (the Magician)            Walking the Plank.
      Wawbeck       (the Rock)                Modelling.
      White Elk                               Long Jump.
      Won-tolla                               Hopping.


      (iii) Names Awarded by Akela at his Discretion

      Hathi         (the Elephant)            Punctual and regular
                                                attendance.
      Jeebi         (the Ghost)               Fattest Cub.
      Kim           (Little friend of
                      all the world)          Helpfulness.
      Ko            (the Crow)                Noisiest Cub.
      Mang          (the Bat)                 Obedience.
      Mor           (the Peacock)             Tidiness and cleanliness.
      Onaway        ("Awake!")                Alertness.
      Shada         (the Pelican)             Perseverance.
      Rikki-tikki-tavi (the Mongoose)         Cheeriness, or Courage.
      Mowgli                                  Friend to animals.
      Sona          (the Himalayan Bear)      Good manners.
      Suggeema      (the Mosquito)            Smallest Cub.
      Tall Pine                               Tallest Cub.



--------------------------------
Date:         Thu, 28 May 1992 03:51:44 -0400
From:         "Jack W. Weinmann" <bk233@CLEVELAND.FREENET.EDU>
Subject:      Cub-A-Ree Ideas (USA)
 
One of the districts in my council is having its first Cub-A-Ree.
Here is a description of the stations:
 
Station 1: Citizenship
   Part 1:  Den conducts flag ceremony of its choice - up to 5 points
            awarded for correct etiquette, originality & overall
            performance.
   Part 2: Den selects 5 questions to answer on citizenship & national
           heritage from 10 sealed questions. (1 pt. per correct answer)
    Beads:  Gold  9-10 pts,    Blue 6-8 pts,    Red under 6 pts
 
Station 2: Knots
            (square, bowline, clovehitch, sheet bend, & taughtline hitch)
           Station leader asks 5 boys to tie one knot each.  If a boy is
           not assigned a knot, he may help Scouts who have been assigned.
   Scoring: 2 pts for each knot completed in a 2 min. period
    Beads:  Gold  10 pts,    Blue  6 or 8 pts,  Red  under 6 pts
 
Station 3: Rope Toss
           The den has a 20 ft. rope and has 3 tosses to hit a graduated
           bullseye.
   Scoring: 10 pts (Gold bead) if best throw hits within 2-ft square
             8 pts (Blue bead) if best throw hits within 4-ft square
             6 pts (Blue bead) if best throw hits within 6-ft square
             2 pts (Red bead) if best throw hits outside of square
 
 Station 4: First Aid and Safety Message Game
            Station leader presents 5 first aid and safety situations
            to the den, in sequence.  Den has 1 min. for each situation
            to reply to each situation and/or demonstrate appropriate
            technique to use.  (2 pts per correct answer)
   Beads:   Gold  10 pts,   Blue  6-8 pts,   Red  under 6 pts
 
 Station 5: Obstacle Course
            Entire den runs course consisting of a tire, rope swing, pylon
            run, and ramp climb.  Each Cub timed and the average for the
            den determined.
   Scoring: Average time up to 60 sec.     10 pts -- Gold Bead
            Average time 60 - 90 sec.       8 pts -- Blue Bead
            Average time over 90 sec.       6 pts -- Red Bead
 
 Station 6: Nature Trail
            Station leader presents den with a list of 10 items to point
            out on the nature trail.  When they find an item, they point
            it out to the station leader. Max. time on trail -- 5 min.
   Scoring: 1 pt per item.  Gold  9 - 10 pts, Blue  5 - 8 pts,  Red under 5 pts
 
 Station 7: Rain Gutter Regatta
            In relay fashion, 3 Scouts selected by their den blow a walnut
            shell boat the length of a 10 ft. gutter.
   Scoring: Based on how fast it takes to complete the task.  Exact times
            will be determined and be available at the station.
            Ratings: "Hydroplane" ----- 10 pts. ---- Gold
                     "Motorboat"     5 - 8 pts. ---- Blue
                     "Rowboat"    under  5 pts. ---- Red
 
 Station 8: Marble Shooting Contest
            A range set up consisting of a 5-ft. diameter circle with 13
            marbles placed in center-cross fashion.  Rotating shots, each
            den has 3 min. to shoot as many marbles out of the ring as
            possible.
   Scoring: 11 - 13 marbles knocked out = 10 pts ---- Gold bead
             6 - 10    "       "     "  =  7 pts ---- Blue bead
             0 -  5    "       "     "  =  5 pts ---- Red bead
 
 Station 9: Uniforms
            Points awarded to the den based on the uniforming of
            participating den members.
   Scoring: All Scouts wearing proper shirt & neckerchief -- 10 pts - Gold
            1/2 or more wearing proper shirt & neckerchief -  6 pts - Blue
            Less that 1/2 wearing proper shirt @ neckerchief  2 pts - Red
 
Station 10: Skit Competition
            At 4:00, the dens should gather at the pavillion area to
            present their skits.  Each den has 3 min. to put on their skit.
            Points awarded on originality, style, content & presentation.
   Scoring: Up to 10 pts. as determined by the judge.
            Gold Bead -  8 - 10 pts, Blue -  4 - 7 pts, Red -  0 - 3 pts
 
Note: Dens (2 or more boys).  Games are a DEN effort.  Stations are geared
      so that it takes TEAM effort.  All station activities taken from the
      Wolf, Bear, & Webelos Handbooks. (Their statement - our ideas could
      have other sources!)
      Although there is no limit to the number of boys in a den, it is
      recommended that dens be in the 8 boy range.  Larger dens could
      be split into two dens for the competition so all boys are able
      to participate in the contests.

--------------------------------
From: joec@fid.morgan.com (Joe Collins)
Subject: Chemical Experiments for cubs
Date: Tue, 12 Jan 1993 14:02:18 GMT


[always with adult attendance - Ed.]

As a younger child, my son LOVED mixing baking soda and vinegar in
zip lock bags and watching the bags fill with CO2. We then 'poured'
the CO2 into a plastic pail and lowered a lit match into it (by hand).
The match goes out when it passes into the CO2. But if you can get a
strip of magnesium, ignite that and lower that into CO2 - it won't
go out but will instead strip the oxygen off the CO2, leaving carbon
dust floating in the pail. It is also good because its sparks brightly
and makes loud popping noises. Be using magnesium - perhaps
do it outside 

Get a stalk of celery and cut it lengthwise about 2/3 of the way up.
Get two drinking glasses and fill with water. Place them side by side.
Add two different colors of food coloring into the glasses, i.e. red
in one and blue in the other. Place the celery such that
one part is in one glass and the other part is in the other (which is
why you cut it 2/3 of the way.)
Come back the next day and look at the stalks.

Get an ordinary egg and put in a glass. Pour in vinegar sufficient to
cover it with perhaps 1" to spare. Let sit overnight. The next day take
out the egg and feel it....the vinegar has dissolved the calcium carbonate
in the shell and the shell is gone. You are feeling the membrane that
lined the shell and it has a rubbery feel. Rinse with plenty of water.

Get calcium carbonate (blackboard chalk is perfect). Heat up real hot in
a propane blowtorch (put the chalk in a vise). This will drive the 
CO2 out of the CaCO3. This leaves CaO (lime). When you heat up lime, it
gets bright - which is where the word LIMELIGHT comes from. Drop in water
when done.

Go to radio shack and buy magnets of all types (square, circular, etc).
Give them to you child, along with paper clips, bobby pins, iron nails, etc
You child will have a ball with it.

Then get wire at radio shack and wrap many many turns around an iron nail.
Connect that to a battery and you have an electromagnet. Show your child
how it also picks up paper clips, etc.

Go a hardware store and get root killer. Look at the package - it should be
copper sulfate pentahydrate. When you open it up, it will be blue crystals.
This is good stuff to work with but be careful - poisonous - wash your hands
after touching it. Anyway, drop some in a glass and dissolve in water. 
Then get an iron nail and sandpaper it a bit to make it shiny. Drop it in 
and wait a few hours. It will get copper-plated. (Has to do with the 
relative activity of metals)

Now dissolve more in water- this time to excess, i.e. have crystals sitting
on the bottom. Connect an old spoon to a wire and connect that wire to 
the negative pole of a DC powersupply. Connect some copper wire to the 
positive pole of the DC powersupply. The other end of that copper wire should 
be stripped clean and dropped in the water. Don't let the two touch while 
in the water. After a while, the copper wire in the water will start to 
shrink in size but the spool will get a copper coating. (Copper plated).
The DC power supply can be batteries but use at least 3 volts or so.

Get a small piece of aluminum foil, about 4" square. Fold it in 1/2 two
times and this will give you 1" square. Get some lye from the grocery store
or hardware store (Caution - corrosive, dangerous stuff). Get a 3-4 crystals
of lye and place on the foil, dead center. Place the foil on a paper plate
and plate this in a sink. Add 1 drop of water to the crystals and step back.
The water will dissolve the lye. The lye is now in solution and in
contact with the aluminum foil. The aluminum foil is covered with a
thin layer of aluminum oxide (invisible). The lye solution starts to react
with the aluminum oxide and breaks it down. It then hits the foil and
reacts with that. As the reaction gets going, it heats up. This causes the
reactants to mix it up even faster and get even hotter. Finally, you run out
of either lye or aluminum. 
Rinse thoroughly with water when done. Moral - never mix lye with aluminum.

A slow burn - get plain old steel wool (non-detergent) and plain old 
strong clorox (again - non-detergent). Place the steel wool in a large
bowl or glass. Pour the clorox over it, covering it. Let sit overnight.
Come back tomorrow and most of the steel wool is gone and you now
have plain old rust. (P.S. this will make the clorox quite warm - let it
sit in a sink overnight in case it breaks - don't squeeze the steel
wool before you use it. Just put in as-is - if you squeeze it or
stretch it, the reaction will go faster and become hotter).
Rinse thoroughly  with water when done.

Keep the chemicals away from your child - potent stuff.
Don't mix chemicals on your own without knowing what you are doing.
Some household chemicals and combinations thereof are EXTREMELY dangerous.

Have fun and hope that helps....

Mail me if you want more experiments or have questions on the above.

--------------------------------
From: choffman@adobe.com (Charles Hoffman)
Subject: Attention Deficit - Hyperactivity Disorder
Date: 9 Nov 92 17:54:36 GMT

When I posted by request for information about the  ADD and ADHD boys in my 
Webelos Den, the following information was sent to me.  These suggestions have
made my meetings much easier.:

Keep all activities down to 15 minutes or less.  I would add that allowing 
and encouraging the boys to be creative in their projects helps tremendously.

Separate the ADHD boys from each other, and from other boys who are liable to
follow the ADHD boys' lead in going wild.  I seat my boys in a "U" shape
with the Den Chief and my Asst Den Leader at the bottom of the "U".  The three
ADD and ADHD boys along with the most reactive of the other boys are seated in
an alternating arrangement with the quieter boys.  The two ADHD boys are seated
right next to the leaders (DC and ADL) to allow for personal one on one control
and the ADHD boys work harder at self control as they can get immediate words
of praise from the leaders.

Let the boys know the plans for the meeting at the begining.  Give them a goal
and keep reminding them why they are doing what they are doing.  Give 
recognition in the meeting for their achievements.

Maintain control of the meeting.  I use a carrot and stick approach.  The 
carrot is the "good conduct jug".  Each boy places a bead in a clear water 
bottle at the start of each meeting.  When disruptive or dangerous behavior
happens, the Denner removes a bead.  There are lines on the jug that will take
about 3-4 months to cover.  We just had our first reward, by their choice a 
trip to a local pizza/game center.  The stick is first to "signs up", while 
using direct eye contact with the boys.  A firm, non-stressed voice helps.  
Don't dwell on control, but quickly move to the focus activity.  

Use short simple sentences.  Ask the boys to repeat requests and directions
back to you.  

Have the boys draw up their own den meeting rules.  I have a list that my boys
made up posted in our meeting room.  They point out infractions to each other.

Serve refreshments last.  My boys do a round-robin for "snack".  Every kid 
seems to prefer red drinks.  The food coloring used, plus sugar in the cookies
is guaranteed to have the kids bouncing off the walls in a half hour.  Snack
is a time for quietly going over the days activities and letting the boys know
what will be done at the next meeting.

Be prepared.  I prepare a month in advance what will be done at each meeting,
and what must be done at home for each boy to earn the current activity pins.
Having a well thought out plan gives me the freedom to adapt as the situation
changes.  In addition make one or more of each craft in advance so the boys
have a model to "touch and feel" and so that you know how to do it, and that
the boys are capable of doing the tasks needed for the craft.

Get the quick boys to help the slower boys.  With supervision this can be a 
help.  But watch out.  Boys this age switch from cooperative to competitive 
modes very fast.

Keep the boys focused. ADHD boys are very easily distracted by external 
stimuli.  I and my leaders constantly walk among the boys asking them to tell
us what they are doing, complementing creativity.  This seems to help in the
longer more complex Webelos crafts. 

Many ADD and ADHD boys take drugs (Ritalin, etc)  to allow them to control
their responses.  Parents try to give the boys their dose about 1/2 hour 
before the meeting.  But in real life, this does not alway happen.  Be
prepared for lasts week's angel to be this week's terror.  My Asst Den Leader
will become the terror's shadow when this happens.  This is vital to a
controlled meeting.

Contact the ADD Warehouse, which has a catalog of reading and other things
relevant to ADD/ADHD.  You can call them at (800) 233-9273.  I sat down with
my ADD/ADHD parents and selected books that covered symptoms that were most 
common with their boys.  The public library in my town had several books that
gave me a good insight to the problem, but be warned, my parents told me that
some the information was out of date. 

ADD/ADHD kids need even more complements than other kids.  But don't forget 
the other boys.  Make the complement real, and word it in such a way as to
encourage future growth.  One of my ADHD boys has become quite an innovator 
in fishing for complements.  He is begining to understand what actions will
and will not earn him a complement and his behavior is slowly improving.

Don't treat the ADD/ADHD boys as if they have an "unusual" problem.  

Cycle your activities.  I have an active gathering game, den business, a 
focused activity, another short game, and then snack/reflection all within a 
1 1/4 hour period. 

My parents stay away from den meetings unless we are doing an activity that
requires lots of supervision or assistance.  The parents state that their 
boys are learning that all adults (Akeylas) require the same behavior, not
just parents and teachers.   

Relate information and activities to "doing" things.  Somatic language that
connotes physical activity helps.  Many ADD boys learn best by doing, and are
very poor at memorizing remote facts.  This can slow meetings down, but will 
improve the experience for everyone.

--------------------------------
From: macman@bernina.ethz.ch (Danny Schwendener)
Subject: Game ideas for cub scouts [pointer]
Date: 21/4/93

Here's a pointer for those who are looking for games which you can play with 
cub scout dens or packs: I have received a collection of cub scout games from
Jim Speirs. Eventually, it will end either as an addition to FAQ#3 'Games'
or as a separate FAQ (I haven't decided it yet), but in the meantime, the
collection can be retrieved by anonymous ftp from ftp.ethz.ch; log in as 
'anonymous' with your E-mail address as password. The file is called
'cub-games.prerelease' and is stored in the directory: rec.scouting/more

In addition, it is always a good idea to look into FAQ#3 'Games', even
though the games are more directed towards scouts and a few of them may 
not be suitable for younger cubs.

-------------------------------- End of FAQ #6 --------------------------------

