>From: rick@usenix.UUCP (Rick Adams)
Newsgroups: comp.org.usenix,news.admin,news.stargate,comp.sources.d
Subject: UUNET Communications Service Available
Message-ID: <43389@beno.seismo.CSS.GOV>
Date: 11 Apr 87 04:50:54 GMT
Date-Received: 11 Apr 87 06:15:58 GMT
Expires: 31 Jul 87 04:00:00 GMT
Sender: rick@seismo.CSS.GOV
Reply-To: rick@seismo.CSS.GOV
Followup-To: news.misc
Distribution: na
Organization: Usenix Association
Lines: 124
Xref: bu-cs comp.org.usenix:107 news.admin:292 news.stargate:91 comp.sources.d:552

The Usenix Association is pleased to announce the funding of the UUNET
project on an experimental basis.  This continues the association's
goals of fostering innovation and promoting the import and export of
new ideas.

UUNET is a non-profit communications service designed to provide access
to USENET news, UUCP mail, ARPAnet mail, and various source archives at
low cost by obtaining volume discounts.  There are no restrictions on
what you may send nor on redistributing what you obtain from or through
UUNET. UUNET is effectively a common carrier. Charges are calculated to
recover costs.

Operationally, UUNET consists of a 10 processor Sequent Balance 21000
located in Arlington, VA. The system is connected to Tymnet via a
high-speed leased line. It can easily handle 25 simultaneous uucico
transfers and will be upgraded to match demand. It is administered by
the same people who are currently administering "seismo" (everybody's
favorite mail relay...). Operations personnel are on site 24 hours/day
Monday - Friday and someone is always on call on weekends. Availability
and reliability of the system will be high. The system is dedicated to
UUNET and has no function other than as a communications relay.
Currently the UUNET machine is tightly coupled to "seismo". This means
that having a connection to UUNET is effectively having a connection to
seismo, i.e. a well connected news and mail relay.  UUNET should be
fully operational on May 1.

To access the UUNET system from within the United States, you dial a
local phone number (from thousands of US cities) and connect to
Tymnet.  You are then connected to UUNET via the Tymnet X.25 public
data network.  International sites may access UUNET via direct
host-to-host X.25 connection.   No special hardware or software is
required. The connection to Tymnet is made with an ordinary modem
(V.22bis/Bell 212A/Bell 103).  The standard UUCP communications
protocols are supported. Accessing UUNET will be as easy as with any
other UUCP connection.

The cost is $3 per hour of connect time during off-peak times ($5 per
hour from Hawaii). Off-peak times are 6:00 PM to 7:00 AM Monday -
Friday and all day Saturday and Sunday. (Your time zone is used to
determine peak or off-peak time, not necessarily the time zone in which
the UUNET system is located).  It is anticipated that the most traffic
will take place during off-peak rates.  Access is available during peak
rate times at substantially higher rates ($20 - $32 per hour depending
on location). There is a membership charge of $30 per month (less than
$1 per day) to cover administrative costs.

By comparison, ATTMAIL charges $2 per month membership and about $30
per connect hour. ATTMAIL does not offer off-peak rates. CSNET charges
a membership fee in the thousands of dollars annually, $54 per connect
hour during peak times and $30 per hour during off-peak hours. UUNET is
not intended to compete directly with either ATTMAIL or CSNET. Their
higher fees include additional services and a much larger support
organization.  If you do not need (or can't afford) their extra
services, then UUNET may be for you.

There are several reasons why you should use the UUNET service.

1) Cost: If you are currently paying for long distance calls to send
uucp mail or news, then you should save a substantial amount of money
in communications costs.

2) Reliability: UUNET exists as a communications relay. It will never
be unavailable because some other project needs it. Nor will it be
unavailable because no one has the time to maintain it. It is run as
a business, not as sideline nor as a favor to other sites. The number of
intermediate hops for news and mail will be greatly reduced, thereby
increasing the reliability.

3) Availability: UUNET will be the best connected news machine in the
country.  ANYONE can be directly connected to a backbone site and not
have to depend on the kindness of others to redistribute newsgroups
that are important to you. Of course, you may have a full newsfeed, a
partial newsfeed, or none at all. You get what you are willing to pay
for. (A full news feed would cost about $150 per month in connect
time.) UUNET will always carry all newsgroups. This includes any new
news categories that may appear other than the "standard" set.

4) Accessibility: UUNET will be able to function as an official gateway
into the ARPANET. This also means that you will be able to directly
access other networks that are similarly gatewayed into the ARPANET
(E.g.  BITNET, CSNET, etc). In the future, gateways to other existing
mail services will be provided (E.g. MCImail, Telemail, etc). UUNET can
also act as the mail forwarder for your domain.

5) Archives: UUNET will make available for uucp access an extensive
archive of publicly available Unix software. At a minimum, this will
include the latest GNU software, the latest Kermit distributions (for
many cpu types, not just Unix), all the ARPANET RFCs, access to the
Simtel-20 archives, and the netlibd archives at Argonne (EISPACK,
LINPACK, etc). Again, you pay only for the cost of transferring the
software. You will never again have to worry about how to obtain
software that is "available for public ftp". It will be made available
for you to uucp.

As previously mentioned, Usenix has funded UUNET for an experimental
period.  Currently funding exists through July 31. To offer these
services at these prices, UUNET must generate a large volume of
traffic. If a large enough volume of traffic is seen by the end of
July, Usenix will spin off the UUNET experiment into an independent
non-profit organization that will continue the service with the same
basis. If a large enough interest is not shown to allow UUNET to
recover its operating costs, Usenix will regrettably have to
discontinue funding.

In summary, if your organization has come to depend on electronic mail
and news as part of its daily business, you need a professional
communications service that you can depend on. If you are considering
subscribing to UUNET, please do so soon. If enough early support is not
shown, the service may not be available when you decide you need it.

As an incentive, any organization subscribing to UUNET in April will
have its May membership fee waived. (So, for the first month, your only
risk in trying the service is the hourly connect charge).

For a subscription form or for further information, please contact:

	Peter Salus
	UUNET/Usenix
	P.O. Box 2299
	Berkeley, CA 94710
	+1 415 528 8649
	{seismo,ucbvax,cbosgd,ames,amdahl}!usenix!peter

---rick


>From bu-cs!husc6!seismo!uunet!rick 
Article 189 of comp.org.usenix:
Relay-Version: version B 2.10.3 4.3bds beta 6/6/85; site bu-cs.BU.EDU
Path: bu-cs!husc6!seismo!uunet!rick
>From: rick@uunet.UU.NET (Rick Adams)
Newsgroups: comp.org.usenix
Subject: UUNET Project Progress Report
Message-ID: <123@uunet.UU.NET>
Date: 21 May 87 23:45:57 GMT
Date-Received: 22 May 87 01:02:23 GMT
Organization: UUNET Communications Services, Arlington, VA
Lines: 54

The UUNET project has been in service for a week providing news
and mail service to 34 sites. Well over 100 sites have requested
subscription information and the responses so far have
been very enthusiastic.

Overall, performance has been very good. Most sites are averaging
about 1000 bps throughput on a 1200 bps modem and 1950 bps on a
2400 bps modem. The long delays observed with services like 
PC Pursuit have not been experienced.

The machine availability has been 100% (i.e. no down time yet...).
Source archive access should be available soon. We expect to provide
an archive server similar to the others currently in use.

The biggest problem encountered so far was determining that certain
older uucps terminate the strings that they send to log in with a 
\n instead of a \r (This is a bug. It is fixed in 4.2/4.3 BSD and Honey
DanBer at least). This \n confused the login program and 3 sites
could not get logged in. Changing their L.sys entries to an explicit \r\c
solved that problem.

Following is a current uucp map entry for the uunet machine.

---rick

[This is intended to be a progress report and not a commercial. If you
want more information, send email to usenix!peter]


#N	uunet
#S	Sequent Balance 21000; Dynix 2.1.1
#O	UUNET
#C	Rick Adams
#E	uunet!postmaster
#T	+1 703 276 7900
#P	P.O. Box 2299, Berkeley, CA 94710
#L	38 53 40.5 N / 77 04 34.5 W
#R	Physically in Arlington, VA
#W	rick@seismo.CSS.GOV (Rick Adams); 20 May 87
#U	seismo pcrat swlabs ccicpg lll-winken ukma tg iscuva madhat
#
# siamese twin
#
uunet	seismo(1)
#
uunet	usenix(DEMAND), micropro(DEMAND), rodan(DEMAND), ccicpg(DEMAND),
	grand(DEMAND), tg(DEMAND), peregrine(DEMAND), pcrat(DEMAND),
	ednor(DEMAND), tekbspa(DEMAND), housun(DEMAND), pilchuck(DEMAND),
	wp3b01(DEMAND), siia(DEMAND), oswald(DEMAND), swlabs(DEMAND), 
	crdnl(DEMAND), hpda(DEMAND), quick(DAILY), epicb(DEMAND),
	unrvax(EVENING), lll-winken(DEMAND), desint(DEMAND), garfield(DEMAND), 
	iscuva(DEMAND), hnsurg3(DEMAND), rosevax(DEMAND), virginia(DEMAND), 
	madhat(DEMAND), ukma(DEMAND), ora(DEMAND), arnold(DEMAND),
	metasoft(DEMAND)


>From rick@usenix.UUCP Thu Jun 25 14:29:31 1987
Article: 589 of news.misc:
Path: bu-cs!bloom-beacon!husc6!seismo!usenix.UUCP!rick
From: rick@usenix.UUCP (Rick Adams)
Newsgroups: comp.org.usenix,news.misc
Subject: UUNET Communications Service Available
Date: 24 Jun 87 22:45:26 GMT
Date-Received: 25 Jun 87 01:44:50 GMT
Organization: Usenix Association
Keywords: new improved
Xref: bu-cs comp.org.usenix:250 news.misc:589


                    UUNET General Information

     At the Winter 87 USENIX Conference in  Washington,  DC,  the
USENIX  Association announced the funding of the UUNET project on
an experimental basis. UUNET  became  operation  in  mid-May  and
currently has over fifty subscribers.

     UUNET is non-profit communications service that provides ac-
cess to USENET news, UUCP mail, and many standards (including the
Internet RFCs and comp.std.unix archives). UUNET  is  the  newest
experimental project of the USENIX Association and has the unpre-
cedented cooperation of DARPA.

     For this experiment, DARPA has authorized  the  use  of  the
Center  for  Seismic  Studies personnel, resources and communica-
tions facilities.  This allows UUNET to house its  host  computer
at  a  well-staffed and maintained computer center and to provide
the high quality services necessary for this project.   In  addi-
tion,  DARPA  has  authorized  use  of the ARPANET gateway at the
Center on an experimental basis to test the feasibility  of  mail
forwarding between ARPANET and non-ARPANET sites.

     This is the first time a joint project like  this  has  been
initiated  and  the experiment will be carefully conducted to as-
sure that all ARPANET and  Center  policies  are  followed.   The
technical  results  of  the experiment will be presented to DARPA
for their consideration of the long term possibilities of contin-
ued  interconnection  and  to USENIX for their funding considera-
tion.

                     Why Should I Subscribe?

1) Cost: If you are currently paying for long distance  calls  to
     send  uucp  mail or news, then you should save a substantial
     amount of money in communications costs.

2) Reliability: UUNET exists as a communications relay.  It  will
     never  be  unavailable  because some other project needs it.
     Nor will it be unavailable because no one has  the  time  to
     maintain  it.  It  is  run  as a dedicated service, not as a
     sideline nor as a favor to other sites.  The number  of  in-
     termediate  hops  for news and mail will be greatly reduced,
     thereby increasing the reliability.

3) Availability: UUNET will be the best connected news machine in
     the country.  _A_n_y_o_n_e can be directly connected to a backbone
     site and not have to depend on the  kindness  of  others  to
     redistribute  newsgroups  that  are  important  to  you.  Of
     course, you may have a full newsfeed, a partial newsfeed, or
     none  at  all.  You  get what you are willing to pay for. (A
     full news feed would cost about $175 per  month  in  connect
     time.) UUNET will always carry all newsgroups. This includes
     any new news categories that may appear other than those  in
     the _s_t_a_n_d_a_r_d set.

4) Accessibility: UUNET has been authorized to function as an AR-
     PANET mail gateway. Gateways to other networks and mail ser-
     vices will also be set up. UUNET can also act as the ARPANET
     mail forwarder for your domain.

5) Archives: UUNET will make available for uucp access an  exten-
     sive  archive  of  publicly  available  UNIX  software. At a
     minimum, this will include the latest GNU software, the  la-
     test  Kermit  distributions  (for  many  cpu types, not just
     UNIX), all the ARPANET RFCs, the latest UUCP map information
     (updated  daily from the master copy), access to the Simtel-
     20 archives, and the netlibd archives at  Argonne  (EISPACK,
     LINPACK, etc). Again, you pay only for the cost of transfer-
     ring the software. You will never again have to worry  about
     how  to obtain software that is _a_v_a_i_l_a_b_l_e _f_o_r _p_u_b_l_i_c _f_t_p. It
     will be made available for you to uucp.

                        How Does It Work?

     Operationally, UUNET consists of a 10 processor Sequent  B21
located  at the Center for Seismic Studies in Arlington, VA.  The
system is connected to Tymnet via a high-speed  leased  line.  It
can  easily  handle  25 simultaneous uucico transfers and will be
upgraded to match demand. It is administered by the  same  people
who are currently administering _s_e_i_s_m_o (everybody's favorite mail
relay...).  Operations personnel are on site 24 hours/day  Monday
-  Friday and someone is always on call on weekends. Availability
and reliability of the system will be high. The system  is  dedi-
cated to UUNET and has no function other than as a communications
relay.  Currently the UUNET machine is tightly coupled to _s_e_i_s_m_o.
This  means that having a connection to UUNET is effectively hav-
ing a connection to _s_e_i_s_m_o, i.e. a well connected news  and  mail
relay.  The UUNET system is now fully operational.

     To access the UUNET system from within  the  United  States,
you  dial  a local phone number (from thousands of US cities) and
connect to Tymnet.  You are then connected to UUNET via the  Tym-
net  X.25  public  data  network.  International sites may access
UUNET via  direct  host-to-host  X.25  connection.    No  special
hardware  or  software  is required (other that the standard UNIX
UUCP programs).  The connection to Tymnet is made with  an  ordi-
nary modem (V.22bis/Bell 212A/Bell 103).  Accessing UUNET will be
as easy as with any other UUCP connection.

                       What Does It Cost?

     The cost is $3 per hour  of  connect  time  during  off-peak
times  ($5  per  hour from Hawaii). Off-peak times are 6:00 PM to
7:00 AM Monday - Friday and all day Saturday  and  Sunday.  (Your
time  zone is used to determine peak or off-peak time, not neces-
sarily the time zone in which the UUNET system is located).  Time
is charged by the minute, with a 3 minute minimum per connection.
It is anticipated that most traffic will take place  during  off-
peak  rates.   Access is available during peak rate times at sub-
stantially higher rates ($20 - $32 per hour  depending  on  loca-
tion).  UUNET  can  also  call  you for $20 per hour.  There is a
membership charge of $30 per month (less than $1 per day) to cov-
er administrative costs.

                             Summary

     As previously mentioned, USENIX has funded UUNET for an  ex-
perimental  period.  Currently funding exists through November 1.
To offer these services at these prices, UUNET  must  generate  a
large  volume  of traffic. If a large enough volume of traffic is
seen by the middle of October, USENIX will spin off the UUNET ex-
periment  into  an  independent non-profit organization that will
continue the service with the same basis. If a large  enough  in-
terest  is  not  shown  to  allow  UUNET to recover its operating
costs, USENIX will regrettably have to discontinue funding.

     If your organization has come to depend on  electronic  mail
and  news  as part of its daily business, you need a professional
communications service that you can depend on. If you are consid-
ering  subscribing  to  UUNET, please do so soon. If enough early
support is not shown, the service may not be available  when  you
decide you need it.

For a subscription form or for further information, please contact:
                           Peter Salus
                          UUNET/USENIX
                          P.O. Box 2299
                       Berkeley, CA 94710
                         +1 415 528 8649
  {seismo,uunet,ucbvax,cbosgd,ames,amdahl}!usenix!uunet-request



>From rick@uunet.UU.NET Fri Aug 28 15:32:27 1987
Article: 305 of comp.org.usenix:
Path: bu-cs!bloom-beacon!husc6!ut-sally!seismo!uunet!rick
From: rick@uunet.UU.NET (Rick Adams)
Newsgroups: comp.org.usenix,news.misc
Subject: UUNET progress report
Date: 26 Aug 87 22:54:01 GMT
Date-Received: 28 Aug 87 09:20:44 GMT
Organization: UUNET Communications Services, Arlington, VA
Xref: bu-cs comp.org.usenix:305 news.misc:826

This is a short progress report on the UUNET experiment sponsored by
the Usenix Association.

As of today, we have 92 sites using the system. Of those 92, 65
are getting some amount of news. (It is always interesting to see
what news groups people are willing to pay for). We are averaging
about 65-70 connect hours per day and have had as many as 17 simultaneous
connections. The system seems to be able to handle the load with no problem.

A majority of the connections that were using seismo have moved to
the uunet machine. This includes all of the foreign connections via x.25.
(When seismo retires next week, the only way to get to most of those
sites will be through uunet.)

800 service is due to be installed on Sept 1, which will allow
a reasonable rate to be charged ($15 per connect hour) during the day
instead of the absurd $20 currently being charged if Tymnet is used.

We have been testing some of the newest Telebit Trailblazer modems
with the uucp g protocol 'spoofing'. They have worked well and
will be available on the 800 numbers as well as via a normal dialup
connection. We have been getting an honest 10,000 bps throughput
with these modems. Since this is about 5 times better than a 2400 bps
modem, if you use a trailblazer on the new 800 service, you would
be spending effectively $3 per hour to transfer the same data that you
would spend $15 per hour with a 2400 bps modem. This is extremely
cost effective for daytime mail.

Telebit is offering a great deal for existing usenet sites. A 50%
discount on one modem (This brings the price to under $700!). Watch
for an official announcement from Telebit soon.

The final status of uunet will be decided at the October board of
directors meeting. Things look fairly good at this point, but only
if new signups continue at the current rate.

---rick
