GENERAL

A = Punch 
B = Kick
C = Throw

General History: It's the year 3091, an entity called Geegus is threatening the 
planet. The entity studied earth technology and was able to defeat the 
toughest soldiers, so a scientist using a time machine travelled through time 
to find heroes that Geegus didn't fight and were able to defeat him.


HANZO 

Nation: Japan       Occupation: Iga Ninja

History: Hanzo is a Iga Ninja from the XVII century, who developed secret 
techniques. He wants to crush everyone who crosses him.


Shuriken Star: Down, Down-Forward, Forward + A

Flying Blades: Down, Down-Back, Back + B

Serpentine Spiral: Forward, Down, Down-Forward + A

Double Air Jump: Up, Up.


Ending: No sign is found of Hanzo except a note saying something like, "I have 
gone on in search of more worthy opponents, so this is sayonara."


FUUMA

Nation: U.S.A.       Occupation: Fuuma Ninja.

History: Fuuma is the last Ninja of the clan Fuuma, eternal enemies of the Iga 
clan. Son of an american woman, he left Japan with his mother when his father 
died and trained secretly in the Fuuma techniques. With no entusiasm he agreed 
to fight side-by-side with Hanzo to defeat Geegus. He lives in the middle 
XX century.


Shuriken Star: Down, Down-Forward, Forward + A

Flying Blades: Down, Down-Back, Back + B

Serpentine Spiral: Forward, Down, Down-Forward + A

Double Air Jump: Up, Up.


Ending: Fuuma concentrates and transforms into a blonde businessman, who is 
chastized for being late to work by his boss.



DRAGON

Nation: China         Occupation: Karateka.

History: Dragon is a legendary karateka from the middle of the XX century. 
Accused of false fighter, he accepted the invitation to fight against Geegus.


Multi Punch: Tap A quickly.

Dragon Kick: Back, Forward + B


Ending: Dragon is offered a series of movie contracts by a Hollywood agent. "A 
new star is born!"



JANE

Nation: France      Occupation: Fencer.

History: A XV century feminist, who protects the circus who raised her, proved 
to be one of the toughest fencers of her time. Accepted the invitation to 
defeat Geegus, only to prove that women are tougher that men.


Arivana Bird: Back, Forward + A

Flaming Sword: Down, Up + B

Sword Hop: Jump, Down + A

Slap: B (Close)


Ending: Janne decides that none of the men are worthy to wed her, and goes off 
in search of tougher opponents.



RASPUTIN

Nation: Rusia            Occupation: Sorcerer.

History: A phylosopher of the XIII Rusia, was also a known alchemist and 
sorcerer. He discovered a way to expand his members so he could fight at 
distance. Acepted to fight Geegus because he saw Geegus as a Dark Angel.


Fireball: Down, Down-Forward, Forward + A (Can be done in air)

Razor Spin: Down, Down-Back, Back + B


Ending: We see him preparing to go home in the time machine, but he becomes 
lost and winds up in the Age of Dinosaurs, being chased by a pack of 
Tyrannosaurs.



MUSCLE POWER

Nation: U.S.A.             Occupation: Wrestler.

History: Heavyweight Wrestling Champion of all asociation in middle of XXI 
century, Muscle Power (pro name) was the first one to do it. Acepted to fight 
Geegus because he look Geegus as a challenger of his multiple belts.


Muscle Bomb: Back, Forward + A

Spinnig Back Breaker: Circle 360 clockwise beginnig in Forward + A

Back Flip: Back + any button (Close)

Skull Squeeze: C (Half step away)

Toe Stomp: Forward + B (Half step away)

Back Slam: Forward + B (Close)

Butt Crunch: Up, Down + B 

Drop Kick: Jump, B, B

Aerial Punch: A, A


Ending: "Even on the pro wrestling circuit, Muscle Power remains a force to be 
reckoned with."  "Yeah, he keeps bragging about winning all the championship 
belts."


JENGHIS CARN

Nation: Mongolia       Occupation: Marauder.

History: One of the top officers and personal bodyguard of Genghis Khan, was 
fierce and merciless in hand-to-hand combat. He joined the other World Heroes 
to fight Geegus by boring. 


Mongolian Smash: Back, Forward + A

Mongolian Dynamite: Down, Up + A

Flying Buns of Doom: Jump, B, B


Ending: J. Carn is celebrating his victory when Janne approaches him, pleading 
with him to wed her. He tells her to get lost, she's not his type. But she 
doesn't give up _that_ easily...



BROCKEN

Nation:Germany           Occupation: Cyborg Soldier

History: The Ultimate Soldier of the XXIII century. He alone his able to defeat 
an army. Invited to defeat Geegus and acepted by orders of his superiors.


Missile: Down, Forward + A

Electric Shield: Tap A quickly

Diagonal Force Field: Down, Forward, Down-Forward + A

Flying Charge: Jump, Forward + A


Ending: Close-up of Brocken activating his shades, commenting, 
"I didn't even work up a sweat."
