@

Conf : Pompeii Pirates
Msg# : 103  Lines: Extended  Read: 7
Sent : Sep 27, 1991  at 10:58 PM
To   : Little Lulu
From : Kc Slim at {{{Lulu's BBS @378}}}
Subj : Re: <102> Anti-Gravity


 > Its not the first time someone has posted about a BBS having pirated war
 > on it. Remember Software Junkie? Or the Warehouse?
 > Nothing new I don't think starting rumors that he is going to get busted
 > is well the right thing to do.. UNLESS you KNOW. And how could that be?
 > Hmmmmm
 
  /b7
 Atari-ST RoundTable
 Category 25,  Topic 4
 Message 14        Wed Sep 25, 1991
 J.WENZEL2 [ J R ]            at 22:03 EDT
 
 N O T I C E :
 
 It has come to our attention that the Anti-Gravity BBS (408-223-7630)
 has an illegal copy of Prism-Paint (serial # 70) posted in it's down-
 load area. If you are the purchaser of this product you will be
 contacted shortly by both the telephone company and the FBI in regards
 to copyright violations. The legal owner of the telephone listed above
 and the purchaser of Prism-Paint (serial # 70) will be held fully
 responsible for all costs and legal fees in regards to this copyright
 violation.  LEXICOR Software will prosicute any and all violaters of
 it's copyrights to the fullest extent of the law.
 
 It is worth noting, that once notified telecommunications systems,
 such as telephone companies, on line services, and radio or television
 networks are required by law to persue and prosecute all cliants using
 their services in the commition of a crime (i.e. copyright infingment
 under title 17 )
 
 Further it is worth noting that the telrphone company maintains all
 telephone number contacts, and that all persons involved with this
 suspected copyright infirngment, will be traced and included in any
 copyright prosicution.
 
 Lee Seiler
 LEXICOR Software.
----------
 
#: 29183 S8/Hot Topics
    25-Sep-91  23:17:28
Sb: #Pirates on the run
Fm: LEXICOR SOFTWARE 75300,763
To: 1
 
Notice:
 
It has come to our attention that a priate BBS in the 408 telephone
area code zone is offering a priate copy of Prism Paint
 
Lexicor has already tracked down the telephone owner and has filed a
criminal complaint with the Telephone criminal use enforcement division
and the FBI. Both agencys have begun the investigative process. Lexicor
also has the name of the original buyer of the Priate copy and will be
prosicuting this person along with the Telephone number owner and those
associated with that person to the limits of the law.
 
Just a generl note of interest: the criminal penelities for
copyright infringment and the use of the telephone for criminal fraud are
a maximum of 15 years in jail and $25,000 in fines for each infringment.
in addition any one knowingly downloading a stolen program has the same
liability. This means that every person who loged on to this Pirate BBS
risks being named in a criminal and civil complaint. The phone company
must by law disconnect any telephone used in such manner. This boils down
to anyone who's tel number appears on the telephone co's computer records
as having logged into this BBS, "WILL BE DISCONNECTED" with our notice and
will not be restored untill the proper authorties have completed there
investigation.
 
This notice is just to let every one know how serious we are about
our software and protecting our authors work.
 
Lee Seiler Lexicor Software
 
#: 29210 S8/Hot Topics
    27-Sep-91  00:10:08
Sb: #29197-#Pirates on the run
Fm: LEXICOR SOFTWARE 75300,763
To: Dan McNamee 70007,5166 (X)
 
Dan,
 
the board name is ELITE
 
AS of today both the Pac bell Legal Department and Agent R. Goldman have
requested our documentation. Once this is in place The US Distric
attorneys office will be asked for a probibal cause finding.
 
At that point the telephone subscriber and all connect number subscribers
will be subject to perminent phone disconnect and criminal prosicution.
 
In addition Lexicor will be given this same list for cival litigation.
 
I have started notifing all the commerical software people who are also
being ripped off, Maby we can make an example of this guy and his buddies.
 
Lee
 
