This is Citadel in the year 2002.
Just going to write a little explanation about these three log files.

Back in 1996 I didn't know much about computers, first family computer
was a 386sx in 1990.  in 1996 I was just figuring out what a modem was,
checking out bbs's downloading files with my Zoom internal 28.8.
Found an 800 bbs listing file and starting dialing them up.
and found this TOP BBS some Zenith/Government BBS.

Just let me say that I always feel really bad when I look at these files
and remember back then 'cause see I didn't get all of the posts off this
BBS, I only got 200 out of the totally 400.  only half :/

I said earlier that I didn't know much then,  didn't know about unix/linux
systems.  I remember I loaded up ..  lets see.. Com..
damn I forget the name of the program.  Com something I could find out later.
I dialed into the BBS and then turned on logging to a file, and then set
the bbs to just dump all the posts.  well then I must have had a big file,
'cause I would load up that log file with edit.com (yea had dos 5.0 only
version that came With Qbasic I beleave).  OUT OF FAR MEMORY... or something
like that.  I knew I could 'type file.log'  but that wasn't cool.
so I knew I better save it into parts.  I'm not sure if I ever had the entire
400 posts and then deleted the.. that would have been sucky.

Anyway,.. so I logged back on, started at post 1 and just kept pressing enter
for awhile.  then stopped that log file.  Then started a new one.
ok makes sense.  Thats how I got these files we have now.

The crazy part about this is I'm at home...  Mom calls me to dinner.
Damn  time to eat..  ok I have to do this later.
I call it up the next day.  or mabye it was even later that night!
but they fucking disconnected it right then!  I must have been the very last
person to access the thing remotely.  I'm like  uhhh  shit!
I remember it didn't give a carrier anymore.. forget exactly  but I do remember
saying 'damn...'   and then reading what the hell I just got.

it gets most interesting at the end of log 3.   just wish I had all of it.

if anyone out there was one of these people that used this BBS back in 1996
or knows someone that might have been on it.  or anything that could help.
Would be really cool to complete these logs.

email me at
citadel@nerp.net

I don't know if I'll get a chance to append anymore files to this...
(or will have the time)

later all.



