
 Area: MONTY PYTHON 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
  Msg#: 248             Rec'd                        Date: 03-01-94  00:32
  From: Jason Levine @1:3603/280*                    Read: Yes    Replied: No 
    To: All @1:124/3114*4                            Mark:                     
  Subj: Galaxy
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
 -----    The Galaxy song from Monty Python's The Meaning of Life    -----
 
 <spoken>
 Whenever life gets you down, Mrs. Brown,
 And things seem hard or tough,
 And people are stupid, obnoxious or daft,
 <sung>
 And you feel that you've had quite eno-o-o-o-o-ough,
 
 Just remember that you're standing on a planet that's evolving
 And reolving at nine thousand miles an hour.
 It's orbiting at nineteen miles a second, so it's reckoned,
 The sun that is the source of all our power.
 Now the sun, and you and me, and all the stars that we can see,
 Are moving at a million miles a day,
 In the outer spiral arm, at fourteen thousand miles an hour,
 Of a galaxy we call the Milky Way.
 
 Our galaxy itself contains a hundred million stars;
 It's a hundred thousand light-years side to side;
 It bulges in the middle sixteen thousand light-years thick,
 But out by us it's just three thousand light-years wide.
 We're thirty thousand light-years from Galactic Central Point,
 We go 'round every two hundred million years;
 And our galaxy itself is one of millions of billions
 In this amazing and expanding universe.
 
 <waltz>
 
 Our universe itself keeps on expanding and expanding,
 In all of the directions it can whiz;
 As fast as it can go, that's the speed of light, you know,
 Twelve million miles a minute and that's the fastest speed there is.
 So remember, when you're feeling very small and insecure,
 How amazingly unlikely is your birth;
 And pray that there's intelligent life somewhere out in space,
 'Cause there's bugger all down here on Earth!
                                                           -- Eric Idle
 
Not the best movie, but this was a great song!
 
 * OLX 2.1 TD * No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.

-!- GEcho 1.00
 ! Origin: Barter Town BBS*Pinellas Park, FL*(813)-545-1492 (1:3603/280)
