
 Area: MONTY PYTHON 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
  Msg#: 11              Rec'd                        Date: 02-14-94  14:17
  From: Jim Maciorowski @1:3619/2                    Read: Yes    Replied: No 
    To: Darren J. Mcleod @1:124/3                    Mark:                     
  Subj: Re: Lumber Jack Song
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
> Could someone repost the lumber jack song or tell me the filename and node
> number where I can FREQ it from.  Thanx.

BARBER: Oh, I'm a lumberjack and I'm okay.
I sleep all night and I work all day.

MOUNTIES CHOIR: He's a lumberjack and he's okay.
He sleeps all night and he works all day.

BARBER: I cut down trees, I eat my lunch,
I go to the lavatory.
On Wednesdays I go shopping
And have buttered scones for tea.

MOUNTIES CHOIR: He cuts down trees, he eats his lunch,
He goes to the lavatory.
On Wednesdays he goes shopping
And has buttered scones for tea.
He's a lumberjack and he's okay
He sleeps all night and he works all day.

BARBER:  I cut down trees, I skip and jump,
I like to press wild flowers.
I put on women's clothing
And hang around in bards

MOUNTIES CHOIR: He cuts down trees, he skips and jumps
He likes to press wild flowers
He puts on womens clothing
And hangs around in bars....?

(During this last verse the choir has started to look uncomfortable but
they brighten up as they go into the chorus):

He's a lumberjack and he's okay
He sleeps all night and he works all day

BARBER: I cut down trees, I wear high heels,
Suspenders and a bra.
I wish I'd been a girlie
Just like my dear Mama.

MOUNTIES CHOIR:
(starting  lustily as usual but tailing off as they get to the third line>

He  cuts  down  trees,  he  wears  high  heels,
(spoken, rather than sung) Suspenders....and a bra?...

(They all mumble.  Music runs down.  The girl looks horrified and bursts
into tears.  The choir start throwing rotten food at him).

GIRL: Oh Bevis!  And I thought you were so rugged.


ETH NED.

... NEVER use a virus killer older than 3 months!
 * Q-Blue 1.0 [NR] *

-!- 
 ! Origin: Ground Zero 813-849-4034 New Port Richey, FL NEC (1:3619/25)
