
Message #2760 on "MAGICKNET"  (public)
Date : 28-Oct-91 18:53
From : Simon Novali
To   : All
Subj : Conference Rules (1 of 3)

Greetings,

Following are the conference rules for the MagickNet Triad.  They will be
posted once a month on a rotating basis in one of three echoes.

These echoes have the tagnames of: MAGICKNET, MUNDANE, and METAPHYSICAL.  If
they are not designated by those names on the boards you are posting from,
please inquire as to which message areas corresponds to each of these three
echoes.  Sysops are encouraged to make such identification as easy as
possible for new users.

I rely on your assistance in maintaining the integrity of these echoes.


Regards
--Simon
^^


--- QM v1.00
 * Origin: *Northern Lights*  Citrus Heights CA  (916)729-0304 (1:203/444.0)
Message #2761 on "MAGICKNET"  (public)
Date : 28-Oct-91 19:16
From : Simon Novali
To   : All
Subj : Conference Rules (2 of 3)

2.1  MAGICKNET...... Neopaganism, Witchcraft & Magick

This remains the normal Neopaganism, Witchcraft & Magick echo.
Newcomers and the casually curious are welcome.  As an aid to
such folks, we will compile a few messages' worth of standard
questions and answers which will be automatically re-posted to
the echo every month.  However, discussions of only marginal
relevance to the topic(s) will be strongly encouraged to move to
MUNDANE.
2.2  METAPHYSICAL... Neopaganism, Witchcraft & Magick (articles)

This portion of the echo is intended to encourage members of the
magickal community to discuss points in common and points of
difference in detail; to promote scholarship and depth of thought
in the magickal community.  Only messages of magazine-article
quality should be posted in Metaphysical.  Replies to articles
posted in METAPHYSICAL should be posted in MAGICKNET.  It is the
responsibility of each sysop to ensure that messages which belong
in MAGICKNET or MUNDANE do not get posted here.  For example, the
sysop may choose to have users submit potential messages as files
to be converted (by the sysop) into messages, or alternatively
may only give access privilege sufficient to post into METAPHYS-
ICAL to trusted users who have had the policy explained to them.
However, UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES should unvalidated, first-time
callers be permitted to post in METAPHYSICAL.


2.3  MUNDANE........ Neopaganism, Witchcraft & Magick (sidetrack)

Many members of the original Magick echo derived great pleasure
and satisfaction from being able to discuss mundane and political
matters with other members of the magickal community.  Unfortu-
nately, left unchecked such discussions can tend to crowd serious
magickal discussions.  To allow both types of dialog to exist
side-by-side, the MUNDANE echo was formed.  If a discussion
starts in either the MAGICKNET or the METAPHYSICAL echo that is
irrelevant to their topics, the parties to that discussion will
be =strongly= encouraged to move the discussion over to MUNDANE
(if not completely away from the Neopaganism, Witchcraft and
Magick Conference).

This should not be confused with a wide-open general chatter
echo.  While the topics may range freely, only members of the
magickal community or those with interests in magickal topics are
encouraged to post here.


--- QM v1.00
 * Origin: *Northern Lights*  Citrus Heights CA  (916)729-0304 (1:203/444.0)
Message #2762 on "MAGICKNET"  (public)
Date : 28-Oct-91 19:19
From : Simon Novali
To   : All
Subj : Conference Rules (3 of 3)

3.1  Nodes Required to Provide All Three Echos

All systems which distribute this conference or make it available
to the public are required to carry all three echos.  Mail-only
and/or point systems which do not distribute the Neopaganism,
Witchcraft and Magick conferences or make them publically
available are exempted from this rule but are strongly encouraged
to carry all three echos in order to be able to follow
discussions which are moved to other tracks.

3.2  Notify Coordinator of Local Distribution

Any system carrying all of the MagickNet echos may further
distribute them to any private or FidoNet node within their local
calling area.  However, they are required to notify the
coordinator of this hookup at once, and to distribute to that
node or point the current version of this document.


3.3  Request Permission for Non-Local Distribution

No system except the main hubs may distribute all or part of the
MagickNet echos to a node or point outside their local calling
area without first securing permission from the coordinator.
(The other two hubs may do so, but should notify the coordinator
as soon as possible.)


3.4  No Illegal Messages

No message which is blatantly illegal in content shall be entered
into the MagickNet echos.  The only exception will be for
messages regarding legitimate religious practices or beliefs
which are or may be made illegal, in violation of the First
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution and the U.N. Statement on
Human Rights.


3.5  No Harrassing Messages

No message which is intended to harrass someone because of their
religious beliefs, or to convert them to another religion, shall
be entered into any of the MagickNet echos.  No exceptions will
be made to this rule, even in the MUNDANE echo.


3.6  No Irrelevant Messages

No message which is irrelevant to the topics of Neopaganism,
Witchcraft, and Magick shall be entered into MAGICKNET or into
METAPHYSICAL.  For this rule, a warning will be issued, and in
general the conversation will be permitted to continue in the
MUNDANE echo.


3.7  No Personal Insults

No message which contains unnecessary profanity or personal
insults shall be entered into any of the MagickNet echos.  Only
one warning will be issued to any violator.  (If you wish to
continue to insult each other, please use personal FidoNet mail.)
This includes messages in the MUNDANE echo.


4.  Enforcement

If a user of any bulletin board system or point operator under a
Fidonet node naively violates one of these rules, it is the
responsibility of the local sysop to take whatever action is
necessary to prevent it from happening again.  In the event the
local sysop is unaware of the violation, the coordinator will
notify him or her.

If the sysop of the local node does NOT take such action, or is
the person responsible for the violation, then the coordinator
will request that system to leave the MagickNet echos at once.
If it does not, then the coordinator will request of the system
by which it is linked into the MagickNet echos that they cease to
deliver messages to or accept messages from that system, and it
will be forcibly exiled from the echos.  Anyone who knowingly
provides a "feed" to a sysop who has been exiled from the
MagickNet echos will suffer a like fate. Likewise, if the exiled
system's feed refuses to cut the link, the link above the feed
will be cut - as high up as is necessary to successfully exile
the offending node.


[Excerpted From Mag-Pol.Txt v1.2]


--- QM v1.00
 * Origin: *Northern Lights*  Citrus Heights CA  (916)729-0304 (1:203/444.0)
