
            3 WAY CALLING           
       Written by The Mortician      
 
 
 
     1) To do this you need two phone lines with the jacks somewhat near each
other, or at least access to each jack from a comman place as you will have to
run wires between the two different jacks.
 
     2) Now open up each jack and take a look at the inside. (You can open it
by unscrewing the center screw on most modular jacks.) You will see 4 terminals
(Places where wires meet) There should be one Red, One yellow One Green, One
black. Now what you will do is take two extra wires(Preferably one Red and the
Other Green from your garage or where ever you keep that shit). Now take your
red wire and attach one end to the Red terminal. Do the Same with the green.
 
      3) Repeat step 2 with the jack for the other line. So Now you will have a
Red and Greed Free wire for each Line.
 
      4) Now Get a Single Pole Double Throw Switch From Radio Shack(Like $.28)
Or where ever you can find one.

      5) Now put the switch in between the two green wires and the two red
wires. Such that when you turn the switch on the green wires will be connected
and the Red will be too. If you have any questions call The Morgue and leave me
feedback and I will get back to you.

            (201)376-4462. A Truly Great BBS. Run on an IBM PC.
 
 
       Use: Well Say your two lines are 6666 and 7777.
Who cares about the prefix. Any way I will call them 6 and 7. Pick up 6 and
call somebody. Now call another person on line 7. Throw the switch. The Person
on 7 will now be able to hear the person on 6 and vice versa. You can also hang
up one of the phones and talk through the other and both will still hear you.
Because of the way this is set up the person on 6 will hear the peron on 7
faintly but it isn't that bad. That is true for 7 hearing 6 too. Fool around
with id and see what you get.
 
This file brought to you by The Mystic.
---------------------------------------

