
    AT&T TAKES NEW STEPS TO STOP CALLING CARD FRAUD
	
[ Internal AT&T Document, provided to the masses by 
George Bush/TGH. I will upload a scanned Gif of this letter during the
next few days, what is in '[]' is my own writing ] 

----------------

					[AT&T Logo]


July 9, 1993

	Document number 427 

Classified information, for AT&T business executives rank
senior or higher [underlined] only. 


Everything below is copyright (c) American Telegraph &
Telephone company. It may not be reprinted or reproduced in any
way. Neither is anyone allowed to mention or discuss the contents 
of this document with anyone apart from the people
mentioned in the first line. Anyone violating this concept 
will be charged for breaking copyrights, fired
(if an employee of AT&T) and sued for potential damages.
The remedies set forth in this statement are in lieu of any
others, oral or written, expressed or implied.



As previous information sheets have told, (# 177,253,287)
AT&T calculates with an measurable loss caused by 
abuse of the AT&T calling cards. 
The loss has so far been 70% less than at the same
time last year, but it still shows. In order to further 
reduce the cost of calling card abuse AT&T plans to
introduce C M R  (Computerlinked Matching and Reporting).

CMR is software, hardware and humans working together to
detect and act upon calling card abuse.

As mentioned in previous information sheets 
(# 112, 177, 253, 287), calling card accounts are being
transferred by BBS' (Bulletin Board Systems) to all over the
world, leading several identical calling card accounts to 
being abused at the same time.

This will not be possible any longer with the introduction
of CMR.

CMR will automatically match all calling cards in operation
continuously and when two matching calling cards are found 
to be in operation at the same time, an AT&T operator will
be notified. The computer will then automatically try to
locate the calling card users (working on the presumption
that only one calling card is usually being used at a time),
and detect the kind of conversation. The computer will 
[Bold Underlined] not tape any voice conversations, it will 
merely register the kind of conversation, being it voice, 
data or other.
This information will be stored in a record and the original 
owner of the calling card will be contacted and asked if
permission has been given, if that is not the case AT&T will
take legal actions towards the abusers.

AT&T Hopes this will reduce the abuse of the AT&T calling
cards, and benefit our customers.

CMR is planned to be introduced in February 1994.

Detailed information concerning the CMR is available upon
request to executives with proper authority.


AT&T Technical director, Jonathan Biss 
			[signature]

---------

[ Bush: Well, fellow CC users, this is not good, assuming this
will go in order it seems AT&T will be able to match, and
then trace any call and its contents, as we all know, there
are few CC's and a LOTS of users, and if anybody are using
the same CC at one time..BANG. But if we handle this with
care, it wont mean to much. As we all know, Ripco is the
leading BBS (Nice to see you're in business again),
thus TGH has decided that Ripco shall be the place were we
discuss this. As we know, Ripco has one of the tightest
validations schemes, yet over 400 users, with regular
number bulletins, we are currently working on a system which
will make you, the users of Ripco safe from CMR, provided
everybody follows the rules. Further information concerning
this will start appearing at Ripco during the next few
months, so if you are not registered at Ripco we cant help
you. Because of this new CMR the sysop at Ripco has agreed
to extend the user roof to 750 users. Validation will
continue until August, then it will become a permanently (?)
closed system. We feel that with 700-800 users Ripco will be
able to provide and be provided with enough necessary 
information so that its users will not have to fear CMR. 
REMEMBER!: If you have any new information, dont be a lamer
and sit on it, we must exchange all information with each
other. ]



