                  :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                 :          The Dark Council Digest          :
                :           Issue #1     Article #0           :
               :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                :   Brought to you by Helium and other Dark   :
                 :  Council Members.  Writen just for you!!  :
                  :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  


So, you think  you want  to become a phreaker, or  maybe a Hacker.  Got some
sort of interest in Bombs?  Well, the members of the  Dark Council bring you
this.  The Dark Council Digest; offering  you some ideas,  and tips  on what
should  be done, when  you are attempting to do something of a weird nature.

Included in this feature, is  School hacking  (J.A.N.E.T), a  political view 
of things, and another article that will just simply BLOW you away.

In the Issues to come, are going to be .GIF graphics, of schematics and other
wonderfull drawings, more tips, and idea...  If you are interested in writing
some articles for us, or becoming a Dark Council member, call the Inner Space
with the number listed at the end of these articles.


But....  On with the show...

   Article #1 --  The World Today
   Article #2 --  (not)Just another Network
   Article #3 --  Kaabooom!
  March 3,1991
-------------------------------------------------------------------Article #1                       1991 <---> 1984
                                       ---
                           Is Big Brother Watching You?
                                       ---
                         Editorial Commentary by Lithium
                              Of the Dark Council
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"The old civilizations claimed they were founded on love or justice. Ours
    is founded upon  hatred.  In our world, there will be no emotions except
    fear, rage, triumph and self-abasement. Everything else we shall destroy
    -- everything."

    An imaginary 1984 pictured by George Orwell in his book : "Nineteen Eighty
    Four".
-------------------------------------------------------------------
 You  may laugh at the future that George Orwell predicted, that of a society
of  tyrants, destroying  humanity  and keeping them  under grip.  Yet that is
exactly what is happening to our world today.  Every government in the world
has  the power to control, manipulate  and eavesdrop on it's citizens.  Every
police force or secret service has the power  to arrest, detain and even have
you  murdered, in the name of "justice".  And the scary thing is, they aren't
afraid to use it.

 Most people place censorship, extreme propaganda, and subliminal advertising
as something that  only happens in countries such as Iraq, Cuba, or the USSR.
Yet it happens everywhere in the world, France, England, Germany, and Canada,
all so called "developed"  nations.  And yes, the  worst offender of them all
is my souther neighbour, the United States of America.

 Unknown to  them, the  people of  these countries live under a conspiracy, a
conspiracy  of politicans searching for  power.  A conspiracy  of businessmen
grabbing out of the working man's pocket.  And a conspiracy to keep an empire
-- built by the power of nuclear weapons and multinational corporations --
in the hands of the United States and it's capitalist allies.

 You may laugh  at me, and deny these facts.  Yet by doing so, you are only
proving the extent that nationalist, greed driven propaganda has had on you.

 In former U.S. President Eisenhower's memoirs, he wrote :

     "My feeling  was then, and  still remains,  that it would  be
      impossible for the U.S. to maintain the military commitments
      which it now  sustains  around the world  did we not possess
      atomic weapons and the will to use them when necessary."

 What  this  amounts to is a  large American  controlled  empire.  An empire
controlled  by business  interests and  military  power.  These commitements
that  President  Eisenhower spoke  are  not other NATO  countries or allies,
they  are COLONIES,  colonies that  dare not  rebel against the iron hand of
Uncle Sam.  The U.S.  has more  than 25 of these "commitments".  Commitments
in which the government openly uses torture, capital punishment, propaganda,
and mass executions to control there people and remain in power.  One of
these "colonies" was Iraq.

 Yes, Iraq.  The U.S. supported Iraq for many years, and the only reason for
doing so was it's own business commitments.  Iraq shakes off U.S. chains and
attacks a U.S. PUPPET MONARCHY (don't give me this bullshit about "restoring
freeom to Kuwait")?  Threaten to "kick butt" (George Bush).

 Where does the U.S. get off going against Iraq for something they  have done
so many times in the last twenty years?  Vietnam, Afghanistan, Iran/Iraq War,
and Panama.  What  is the  difference.  All  made some  attempt  to shake off
colonialist shackles, and all ended up fighting a war against a country twice
their size and power.

 "So what?", you say, "Those people live thousands of miles away, why should
I care?".

 The  reason you  should  care is that it is beginning to happen in the
developed world as well.  ESS, government crackdowns on phreaks, hacks,
cracks, and anarchists, a large tendency towards nationalism all across
North  America, sinking economys, growing  deficits, sickening culture,
biased media, lies from politicians, loss of individual  pride, racism,
commercialization  of  music, art, and  drama, and a  general ignorance
among the populations.

 This is the festering  wound in North American culture,  and it is  also the
beginning of an unhealthy trend towards a cosmetic, controlled, yet efficient,
world.

 Read  the letter section of your newspaper sometime.  Listen to radio
talk shows.  Look at the political conversations on BBSs.  What do you
see?  A disillusioned youth, growing up ignorant of the real problems.

 It is time we all woke up and looked around and DID something  about this
world.
	
I don't  mean singing some songs  and sitting around smoking dope. No people,
that isn't going to bring down the  most  corrupt society since
the "Holy" Roman Empire.  What is going to bring it down is an underground
united with the public.  New Utopians, people who are  willing to destroy,
and  rebuild  aftewards. Rebuild from the   ground  up, a society with the
virtues that all mankind strives for --  Liberty, Equality, Fraternity.

 Tear down, anihilate, rebuild.

                                                          Lithium

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------- Article #2                                                                  -
-           System Hacking. An Adventure In Exploring a School..              -
-                                                                             -
--------------------------------------------------------------------                                                                             -
-          Written and experienced by Beryilium of the Dark Council           -
-                                                                             -
-------------------------------------------------------------------
	
All this hacking shit began when I owned one of those nice big,
powerfull 1 MHz C64's in about '86.. I was into hacking games and was
given hints and tips from one of the better hackers up here in Edmonton
(Yes, we had them way the hell up here in the Country of the Ice Age..)
Anyways, I hacked a couple games and made a couple title screens, got into
assemble language then and made Basic programs unlistable unless you did a few
poked here and there first... But when I got my Amiga, all that
basically changed. I still wanted to hack shit and do what I like doin but
I was limited - I was new to this lump 'o power.. But this doesn't really
have much to do with this article yet..

CORVUS:
 
Grade 8 was about my first (not to mention first successfull) attempt at
hacking into a computer system. And since then, I found myself a new school
hobby. What I hacked into way the hell back then was a system
called Corvus. It is a network that hooks up all the Cripple //e's (Apple
//e's) and Cripple compatibles (Laser 128's) that we had all together so
we wouldn't need disks. Well, hacking into this system didn't take much
brains what-so-ever.. Since I was framiliar with assembler I knew what one can
do. The Cripple //e's were shit for this because when you list out
memory on those paperweights they won't give you text, just the desembled
code. I needed to see what the hell was in memory to figure out this network..
	
Laser 128's are (Im my oppinion) total worthless peices of shit, like most
compatibles are.. But that were good for one thing. Displaying text along
with a disassembled code in the Cripple Monitor. This was my theory on how
to get into the system.. 
 
   If I could get the teacher to logon to show me how to do something or
something he made that is in HIS area, that I couldn't access, then I
would be set. So, being the anal pumper he is, he went on the system as him,
and just as I predicted he had to help some other jerk off who couldn't
comprehend why you have to type RUN and not GO to make a program work.
Anyways, he left his terminal, and I jumped on and entered the monitor. I
searched the entire memory of the system untill I found out his logon name.
It came up about 5 mins later (Cripples are so fucking SLOW!)
and just about 1 K later, came up a nice word called "Antonspc". I had to
assume it was the password, eventhough there were other words like random
characters here and there so I just copied a bunch of that shit down and
rebooted the system for him, went back to my nice terminal and booted the
system up. I entered his name, and a couple of the passowrds.. Nothing..
Piss me off.. Then I entered that "Antonspc" and vola! I was in the system
maintence area and I had control of the whole system.
	
Since this guy (The computer teacher) doesn't think that anyone is capable of
shit like this, he didn't think about checking our areas for added sections..
and I must say that   had access to everything in my own area.. Oh well..
 
JANET: (Just Another NETwork) (c) University of (heh) WaTeRlOo..

	
Ahh, yes. This system (Especially for the Edmonton Area in most
High Schools) should be quite framilar with. Not like the cheap Cripple
setup, this was on real - true to life - Cast Iron IBM Pc's. These were
the actual thing. You could pick up the steel keyboard, accidently (Of
course!) drop it onto the desk and watch a crack develop as well as
totally freaking out the teacher thinking that you are abusing the
equipment (Nahhhhhh...!). And unlike the Corvus system, it was a bit more
complicated and sofisticated. No assembler was gonna help me with this
one. But I have my ways.. :)
	
I got my first taste of Janet in Grade 10. To me, I was a bit amazed, but most
of us are when you can finally use a real computer and quite pissing around
on Cripples. I wasn't really "on" the system then, I was in Computer 10
Programming, and unlike now, it was on fucking Cripple //gs's. I didn't mind
these THAT much, although they could never beat what my Amiga could do, but
that again is a different story. I had a modem (1200 Baud) back then when
1200 baud was the in baud rate <gasp!> and I was currious 
if the school had a modem.. Of course being the nice little boy they THOUGHT
I was, the computer teacher told me that there was, and it was in the IBM
lab, and that I need SpEcIaL permission to go down there and use that
"intricate" system of metal. Anyways, I got it and soon enough I was on the
system and making attempts (Successfull ones though) of hacking into the
system.

Seriously, I couldn't believe how STUPID the teacher thought I
was! Or how STUPID -SHE- was! I was using this cheap peice of shit program
called "Enable" for my telecom use. Wwll, for the first couple days I was
happy enough about being able to use the modem.. But as time goes by as it
usually does, I got bored as hell with that shit and decided to hack into
the system. I found a nice "Exit to DOS" command which every program
hopefully has, and I was on my way.. I was out exploring the system and this
is what I found out:
 
 - You have 6 drives, labeled  A: B: C: D: E: F:

 - There were funny commands that I have never seen on an IBM before like:

      - Access
      - PSWD
      - Detach
      - KillPrt
  
 - MAJOR .BAT files containing these nice new commands.

 - Ran in sections called "Minidisks"

 - Resetting the computer, printing, and loggin in and out are RECORDED.

 - Teachers freak out when they see you in dos because they don't know how to
do it themselves.

I turned around just in time to see a really fucked up beyond belief face
and a screaming voice : "How did you get in there?! What areyou doing?! Get
out of there!!!" shreiked the Comp Teach, "Don't ever do
this again or your outta here!"

And of course my thoughts were "Fuck you, lose another vibrator up
in the dark abyss? Fuck off before you get the 'ol stainless steel
keyboard across the face!" But I knew I couldn't say such things like that
becasue I have to play brown nose to the teacher so she will fall
helplessly into my clutches (Not that I wanted to touch that afro bitch)..
"Well, I pressed CTRL-C, and I ended up here. I don't know how to get out.
I was trying to log on and..."
	
"Ok, ok, just type LOGOFF." (Idiot!)
	
"K.." So I did, and I was back into the logon screen. Heh.. I think I
had her fooled.. Untill one day when I broke into a teachers file. I take it
you wanna know how I did this too. Well, Fine... I dunno about computer
teachers in this school, but they seem to leave the room very often, giving
me a nice oppertunity to play "Search for Passwords in her desk", which I
did. I found some and I felt the need..  Untill one unfortunate day I was
printing something out in a teachers minidisk and I left the monitor on and
was across the room. (Yup, you guessed it, she was out of the room). Anyways,
 she just happens to walk in and over to my computer and see a nice directory
with the heqading of the minidisk I was in (You have to watch out for these).
Well, she had a total cow, and kicked me out of the lab for the rest of the
year..  HAHA, but what will THAT solve?! For I have gotten what I wanted!
(There are nice things that don't beloing to you in certain placed of which
you are not allowed but must go into to make these things yours.. Like Well..
Printer paper, ribbons, power adapters, extension cords, etc..) But we will
leave these out since they SHOULD come by common sense to take stuff that is
in a school that doesn't belong to you - and make it belong to you.
	
Grade 11 - Computers 20 Programming. Awww, and it just happens
that in this course it's 5 credz (Semestered) and I have lots of nice
pretty time to play "Operation Janetkill". Well, I got my ID and my
classmates got theirs, which I just happened to copy down for future
reference.. and time went by as I explored the system in more depth
finding lots of nice things out like repeated passwords. I have found that
almost everyteacher likes to have some of the passwords the same so
he/she/it won't have to remember a whole mess of them. Some of the ones I
found were R, W, GVECR, GVECW, WUGGIER, WIGGIEW.. I tried accessing other
minidisks with these same passwords and I got access to them, read some more
BAT files, found more minidisks and passwords, and continued like that for a
while.
	
Grade 12 - This (I don't know WHY) didn't occur till Grade 12.. I had
access to almost EVERYTHING, including the system Maitenence disk, which
will let you edit ANYTHING in EVERY Minidisk (Even Create or Delete
them). But what I never thought about before was these big fuckin minidisks
called  HDISKC and HDISKD. They were about 31Megs each. Well,
knowing me now, I had to explore them thouraly this year. One of them
(HDISKD I think) Just had 1 Meg Sysfiles on it, which is acutally the
whole system, compacted into one little file (Sector Editor helped me).
HDISKC was great. It had everything! Nortons, More Terms, and Janit.Dir.
What the hell is that?! Oh, only an every Disk Accessed updated file of
EVERY minidisk and read/write password, storage space, and other shit. Not
much at all.. :) I do believe I hit the jackpot there.
	
I made a basic program to read all the garbage and print it to the
screen nicely..  The first prg I made kinda looked like this:

10 CLS:?
20 open "R",1,"F:Janet.Dir",36
30 Field 1, 8 as N$, 8 as R$, 8 as W$, 12 as G$
40 For T=1 to 999
50 Get #1:?N$,R$,W$
60 Next
70 Close 1

	
N$ is the name of the minidisk, R$ is the read password, W$ is the
write passowrd, and G$ is a bunck of garbage that is just long integer #'s
for shit that isn't important. I modified this thing to actually look
good, and to end printing this shit out when it reached the end of the
minidisks. I put 999 just incase there were that many, and shit, it came
damn close.. Over 900.. What this thing will do is basically read that
garbaged up file and print a neat list to the screen of Name, and R/W
passwords. Works great. and it's MAJOR accurate. I changed my password,
and I ren that prg, searched for my minidisk, and it had my new password
up for it. So you can get into ANYONES minidisk now.. No one is safe from
your wrath.. :)
	
There is one other thing that you might want to hac into. It's called
JAM. This prg is on a board that I saw, so you can call there and
d-load it if you haven't hacked into Sysadmin yet. Be carefull! I tried to
run this prg last year and it asked for a password, I entered one, and it
was worng, and it printed that to the main screen for everyone (Including
the teacher) to see..  So fuckin watchout! This system probably has a
couple booby traps!
 
-------------------------------------------------------------------Article #3
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=-   Explosives, What works and what doesn't      =-=
-=-   by Neon                                      =-=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=


	
Well hello everyone and welcome to the first in a series of reviews
about explosives and what happens. This is not a how-to file so if your 
reading this, you should or have tried some of the stuff I will discuss later
to relate to this.  Have fun and trust me on some of these. I have a big cut
from an explosive that didn't quite do what I wanted it to, so I know (hah)
what I am talking about.

	
First of all the Nitric acid and resin mix. This is supposed to create
a small explosion. However, in the ratio that was suggested, but a small flame
popped up. This is a big dissapointment. Stay away from this.  Barium Nitrate
and Magnesium makes an awesome explosion that burned small iron plate to shit.
Very good I recommend this one.

	
There is a file that says that Ammonium Nitrate is a "very unstable and
highly explosive compound", this is bullshit. Only in immense quantities is it
explosive..and then you need a high burning point to set it off, usually
sulfur mix'll do it, but not very efficient.

	
If you want results, I recommend the Sulfur, potassium nitrate and
sugar mix. Remember when I said I cut my hand all to hell?, well this is what
did it. Very, very high boiling point and specific heat capacity is created
when this is mixed, around 1300 degrees Celsius. Awesome. We tried this is a
metal container with a piece of rocket engine explosive in it, and it created
a 25-30 foot radius blast..I was very impressed.

	
The Nitroglycerin formulas you see laying around are not worth the
trouble of making them, as you will probably blow yer head off when mixing
it, because it is extremely unstable. Try the Plastique mixture..this works. 

	
As for fuses and shit...when you are making the potassium nitrate and
water/coffee filter fuse, let it dry for about 8-9 hours untill it becomes
semi-brittle. Then it will be good for use. The capacitor-battery fuse is
also good to use but requires a bit more precision. The timer fuse is good
too..if you get the right kind of watch. I have friends who have given me
shit watches to use and they suck for it..use a timex.

	
Oh yeah, when making flash powder, I find when you use less aluminum
and more strontium nitrate, that you get better results.

	
The Molotov Cocktail files that are circulating are good too, very workable
shit.  Some of the stuff is garbage and not worth the d/load time so be
careful what you get.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
Well, you may not like what you have just read, but that is tough.  None of
this information is to be taken serious, we are all dreaming, and didn't
realize what we were writing.   If you can prove that we wrote this, go ahead.
Innocent until proven guilty.  So says the Justice System.   
All rights worth shit.

__________________________________________________________
