
                       C O D E   T H I E F   D E L U X E
                      B y   B r e w   A s s o c i a t e s
        A N   O F F I C I A L   P H O R T U N E   5 0 0   P R O D U C T

                       CODE THIEF REVISION 3.5 (DELUXE)
             DETAILING NEW FEATURES SINCE CODE THIEF REVISION 3.0
    
    INTRODUCTION

         Welcome to the Deluxe edition of Code Thief.  ÿThis is Code ÿThief 
    Revision ÿ3.5, ÿÿthe next logical upgrade from Code Thief ÿ3.0.  ÿÿThis 
    documentation assumes that you have Code Thief 3.0 ÿand wish only to go 
    over ÿthe ÿnew ÿfeatures in Code Thief Deluxe 3.5.  ÿIf Code ÿThief ÿis 
    TOTALLY ÿnew to you, ÿread THIEF35.DOC for more detailed information on 
    Code Thief.

    UPGRADES TO HACK LONG DISTANCE SERVICES

         After selecting the start and stop times, ÿand weather you wish to 
    quit ÿto ÿDOS after the specified stop time, ÿyou ÿare ÿpresented ÿwith 
    another screen before hacking.  On this screen you will be asked if you 
    wish ÿto stop hacking after Code Thief finds a number of ÿvalid ÿcodes.  
    If you answer yes, ÿyou are prompted to enter the number of valid codes 
    to ÿstop after.  ÿThen you are prompted as to weather Code Thief should 
    quit to DOS after finding this number of valid codes.  If you have quit 
    to ÿDOS ÿfor both the TIME and the NUMBER OF CODES, ÿÿwhatever ÿhappens 
    first will cause Thief Deluxe to quit to DOS. 

         Now you are asked the number of seconds to pause between attempts.  
    This ÿis ÿa ÿfeature ÿto throw off the long ÿdistance ÿcarrier's ÿhack-
    detection ÿsoftware.  ÿÿIf ÿyou have a lot of flagged extenders PLUS ÿa 
    delay ÿtime ÿbetween ÿattempts, ÿit greatly decreases the LD ÿcompany's 
    software ÿfrom ÿdetecting ÿhacking.  ÿÿIt is best to ÿhack ÿduring ÿthe 
    DAYTIME, and a delay will help guarantee that a valid customer calls in 
    and uses their code so ÿthat ÿyour hacks will be more spread apart.  ÿA 
    lot ÿof ÿflagged ÿextenders ÿalso ÿdecreases the possibility ÿof ÿbeing 
    detected even MORE.  ÿFace it, ÿmore people are being busted every day.  
    Use ÿCode ÿThief ÿDeluxe with all of the ÿCode ÿThief ÿcapabilities ÿto 
    greatly ÿheighten your safety.  ÿNote that if you hit RETURN for ÿdelay 
    time, ÿÿCode Thief Deluxe will not pause between attempts (also if ÿyou 
    hit "0" <return> which is the same thing). 

         When Code Thief is DELAYING, you will be shown the countdown.  ÿIf 
    you wish to stop the delay and just go on to the next attempt, ÿhit the 
    [SPACEBAR].  ÿÿHitting ÿESCape during the countdown will ÿquit ÿhacking 
    mode. 
    
    UPGRADES TO EDIT EXTENDER CONFIGURATIONS

         Now ÿaccepted in the code template is [#] and [*].  ÿThis ÿis ÿfor 
    hacking PBX's that need these. 

    UPGRADES TO DELUXE EXCHANGE SCANNER

         The ÿCode ÿThief ÿDeluxe exchange scanner is a ÿmultiple ÿexchange 
    full-screen exchange scanner.  ÿAlso, you can now scan the 1-800 ÿarea.  
    When ÿyou hit [F] from the main menu, ÿyou are taken into the ÿexchange 
    editor.  ÿIf no exchanges exist, a ÿdummy first record will be created.  
    Hit ÿ[R] to Replace the first record and enter the exchange, ÿÿstarting 
    number and ending number of the exchange.  ÿNow, ÿyou can add exchanges 
    by ÿhitting ÿ[A], ÿÿdelete exchanges by hitting [D], ÿflag ÿand ÿunflag 
    exchanges by hitting [+] and [-] respectively, ÿas well as use the left 
    and ÿright arrow keys on the numeric keypad to move around in the file.  
    Also ÿnote ÿthat ÿyou ÿcan ÿenter the ÿexchange ÿrecord ÿnumber ÿto ÿgo 
    automatically ÿto ÿthat ÿexchange record, ÿjust like ÿin ÿthe ÿextender 
    configuration section.  ÿThe [SPACEBAR] toggles weather the exchange is 
    in the 1-800 area or not. 

         If ÿyou ÿwish to not scan exchanges, ÿjust hit [Q] to quit to ÿthe 
    main menu.  ÿBut to begin scanning exchanges, ÿjust hit [G] from ÿhere.  
    Note ÿthat ÿto scan, ÿÿat ÿleast one exchange must be flagged.  ÿIf ÿno 
    exchanges are flagged Code Thief will tell you.  You are also asked for 
    the modem timeout (in seconds). 

         During scanning, ÿif the ending number for an exchange is reached, 
    Code Thief will stop scanning that exchange by unflagging it.  When all 
    of ÿthe ÿflagged ÿexchanges ÿbecome unflagged, ÿCode ÿThief ÿwill ÿquit 
    exchange scanning.  Of course you can also quit by hitting ESCape, ÿand 
    the ÿlast number dialed in all exchanges will be saved in your exchange 
    configurations.  ÿÿThen all you have to do is hit [F] then [G] from the 
    main menu to pick up from where you left off. 

    UPGRADES TO SET MODEM PARAMATERS/DEFAULTS;MODEM SPECIFICS

         Hang ÿup mode has been changed.  ÿCode Thief now NEEDS to drop DTR 
    to hang up, so set your modem DIP switches accordingly.  The option has 
    been ÿreplaced ÿby ÿLOCAL DIALING.  ÿIf you ÿonly ÿhave ÿpulse ÿdialing 
    services ÿ(not touchtone) ÿthen set this option to PULSE.  ÿÿOtherwise, 
    TONE ÿis the default.  ÿOf course when Code Thief DOES connect ÿto ÿthe 
    extender, TONE will be used for the remainder of the hack.  This should 
    go without saying. 

                           MODEM INPUT/OUTPUT WINDOWS

         All ÿI/O to the modem is now monitored.  ÿAlso, ÿCode Thief Deluxe 
    should work with more modems.  ÿDuring hacking or scanning you will see 
    the ÿI/O ÿwindows, ÿalong with a timer on the top of the screen.  ÿÿThe 
    first ÿwindow is INPUT from the modem, ÿthe second window is OUTPUT ÿto 
    the modem.  ÿCode Thief will now re-send commands if errors occur, ÿtry 
    commands ÿagain if they elicit no response, ÿrecover from ÿmodem ÿscrew 
    ups, ÿand generally be more well behaved.  For instance, ATX4 ÿis right 
    as a user string for my COM3: ÿmodem, but creates an ERROR for my COM2: 
    modem.  ÿIf I use a user string of ATX4 for my COM2: modem, ÿCode Thief 
    will recognize it and keep sending ATX4 ÿa ÿnumber of times to my COM2: 
    modem.  Of course it keeps getting errors.  ÿThen after about 5 retries 
    Code ÿThief ÿwill ÿabort ÿhacking.  ÿÿNow ÿI ÿcan ÿlook ÿat ÿthe ÿmodem 
    configuration and say to myself: ÿAh!  ÿI ÿneed to get rid of this user 
    string.  ÿAlso note that when waiting for a carrier if no modem ÿresult 
    code ÿis ÿreceived in the time specified as TIMEOUT for ÿyour ÿextender 
    (can be edited using the extender editor) ÿCode Thief Deluxe will ÿknow 
    and move on.  ÿCode Thief Deluxe uses your PC's clock to keep track ÿof 
    seconds that have elapsed. 

    MULTIPLE TARGET CONVERSION UTILITIES / TYMFIX.COM

         Consult ÿÿCONVERT.DOC, ÿÿwhich ÿhas ÿbeen ÿupdated ÿand ÿÿincludes 
    information on TYMFIX.COM and its use.  Convert version 2.0 is included 
    in your Code Thief Deluxe ZIPfile. 
    
    SUMMARY

         Well, ÿthat's about it for the new features in Code Thief ÿDeluxe.  
    The major changes have been incorporated in the modem I/O which took ÿa 
    bit ÿof programming, ÿbut are easy to document on paper.  ÿAlso, ÿÿCode 
    Thief ÿhas grown quite complex for a hacker type program.  ÿIn creating 
    Code ÿThief I have attempted to take most of the popular features ÿfrom 
    other ÿCode ÿHackers, ÿÿwhatever language they were ÿwritten ÿin, ÿÿand 
    incorporate them ÿinto ÿthe "wish-list" ÿfor Code Thief and Code ÿThief 
    Deluxe.  ÿÿI ÿÿwould ÿalso like to thank the many ÿpeople ÿwho ÿoffered 
    suggestions as to additions and modifications. 

         If you are just getting Code Thief Deluxe when it's new, upload it 
    everywhere so people can move on up to Code Thief Deluxe Revision ÿ3.5.  
    Besides, ÿÿit ÿwill get you upload points and a ÿbetter ÿupload ÿratio.  
    Everyone benefits. 

    CODE THIEF DELUXE
    CODE THIEF REVISION 3.5 DOCUMENTATION
    WRITTEN BY BREW ASSOCIATES / AUTHOR: CODE THIEF DELUXE v3.5

