GTE's new PC-Pursuit Service -- 08/26/85
----------------------------------------
Though not yet available in this area, I thought I would pass along a note 
describing the new service from GTE which allows nearly UNLIMITED long distance
data calling for a flat fee every month. As this service branches out to more 
cities, it could become a *VERY* inexpensive alternative to standard LD 
services for your data communications calls. This service also cuts down 
drastically on the usual long distance noise experienced. This information was 
uploaded to the TBBS SYSOP support board by a user in the Houston area.


.                  INFORMATION ON PC-PURSUIT:

New User Information

For just $25 a month, you can establish an unlimited number of connections to 
free telephone-accessible databases, bulletin boards and other communicating 
PCs in 12 major metropolitan areas.

The PC PURSUIT service can save you up to 75 percent over long-distance 
telephone charges for your home PC. It's the first cost-effective alternative 
for home PC users who have been using standard public telephone services to 
make long-distance connections.

With PC PURSUIT, you can explore a wealth of free resources and even discover 
more uses for your PC. In any of the locations accessible to PC Pursuit, you 
have the ability to:

* Call and send real-time information to other communicating PCs.

* Access public bulletin boards to exchange messages. (GTE Telenet is not 
associated with these bulletin boards or their services.)

* Access free databases for information that can be entertaining and 
educational.

* Download/upload public domain software.

* Shop and advertise in electronic catalogs.


.                     How to Use PC PURSUIT

After you are a registered user, you must do the following to use PC PURSUIT:

a) Use your modem to call the local PC PURSUIT access number.

b) Request the city and destination phone number you wish dialed.

c) Hang-up and then receive your call-back.

d) Await the connection and out-dial; then proceed just as if you had dialed 
the destination phone number yourself.

Example:

You live in Houston and have an area code and phone number of (713) 123-4567, 
and you wish to call a bulletin board in San Francisco in the 415 area code at 
765-4321.

a) Dial the Houston access number of 227-5742 to reach PC PURSUIT.

b) When request session begins, answer the questions as in this example:

--Welcome to Telenet PC Pursuit

--Enter your 7-digit phone number (XXX-XXXX): 123-4567

--Which city do you wish to call? SAN FRAN

--Enter the phone number you wish to call: 765-4321

--You are #( ) in the queue. Do you want to wait, or restart?
--(Y/N/R)? Y

c) When you key in the N(o) to the last question, your call will be 
disconnected. If you key in a Y(es), you will see the following:

--Your request is being processed.

--Please hang up and wait for your call-back. Good bye!


At this point, you should set your modem and/or PC software to the AUTO ANSWER 
mode.

d) In about 20 seconds, you will receive a call-back from PC PURSUIT. You will 
see the following banners:

--This is your call-back. Please stand by ...

--Please wait for 3-step call completion.

1) Network request submitted 2) Network connection complete. Placing request
call 3) Connection complete

****

e) You now are connected to your requested destination city and and phone 
number. If you've accessed a public bulletin board, most require that you enter
two carriage returns or a Ctrl-C.

f) To disconnect from the PC PURSUIT service, just disconnect by hanging up 
from your communication software, modem and/or PC.

g) Customer Service - If you have any difficulty using PC PURSUIT, call Telenet
Customer Service at (800)336-0437.

PC PURSUIT Cities:

Atlanta         Boston          Chicago         Dallas          Denver Detroit 
Houston         Los Angeles     New York        Philadelphia San Francisco  
Washington DC


Local Access Number in Houston: (713) 227-5742


Equipment Requirement
---------------------

.      To use PC PURSUIT, all you need are --

- a telephone line
- an auto-answer modem - 300 or 1200 bps
- a terminal or a PC with asynchronous communications software

Parameters:
-----------

Communication parameters for your hardware should be set-up consistent with the
PC or BBS or host computer you wish to dial. We recommend you use the 
parameters given below, although several other parameter settings also work 
fine on PC PURSUIT:

.            Data Bits: 7
.            Stop Bit: 1
.            Parity: Space
.            Duplex: Full
.            End of Line: Carriage Return Only


Service Hours and Billing

The PC PURSUIT service is provided from 6 pm to 7 am Monday through Friday and 
on weekends from 6 pm Friday to 7 am Monday (local time).

The more you use the service, the more cost efficient it becomes!

A PC PURSUIT subscription includes a one-time registration fee of just $25. 
Then, you pay a flat monthly fee of $25 for virtually unlimited use of the 
service. Each connection can last 60 minutes.

You are billed monthly through your VISA or MasterCard account.





.       Call GTE Telenet at 1-800-336-0437 for information.

