


Type P to Pause, S to Stop listing

               Project Verify
              
              by Fred Steinbeck   
 
  
     I did some more research, and found that
RING FWD doesn't send 90V out on the forward
part of the loop.  Instead, it disconnects the
forward part of the loop from the position for
a short period of time (less than 0.5 seconds).
On an overseas call, this would make the inward
operator's CLG light flash on and off, signaling
her to stop doing her nails and get on with the
call.
 
     What this does to verify circuitry is 
anyone's guess. If the connection is long
distance, the winking of the TSPS console
would send 2600 Hz momentarily at the verify
circuitry, which might be a possibility...
  
     Anyway, operators generally don't use 
routing codes anymore, except in a few
areas (I wish I knew of a few of them).  Now
what an operator does to verify or interrupt
is the following:

     Assume you have dialed 0+7D, and the 7D
is the number you want verified.  The operator
then classes charge as "station paid" and hits
VFY.  If VFY lights, it means the number can
be verified.  She then presses HOLD on loop 1,
and ACS (access) on loop 2.  She then presses
ST, which completes the verify call.  If there
is speech on the line, she will hear encrypted
speech.  Assuming so, she then hits EMER INT
(emergency interrupt), tells them what's going
on, and then hits REL FWD (release forward, 
which drops the call on loop 2).  She then
hits POS REL on loop 2, and ACS on loop 1,
bringing her back to you.  She then reports,
hits REC MSG (record message, which charges
you) and then POS REL, position release.
 
     Most areas no longer have "TSPS Maintenance
Engineers" or frame calling the operator.  
However, if you do, you might waht to try this.
"Operator, class charge as station paid, and hit
verify plus start.  Now hit emergency interrupt,
no AMA, and postion release."  This should have
the effect of throwing you into the call as a
3rd party, for free.  I wouldn't do this from
home, however, because when you call the 
operator, you are not free of her until she
position releases.  Therefore, if she gets 
suspicious, you can hang up, but it won't do
you any good...
 
Paraphernalia
 
     B & F Enterprises (P.O. Box 3357, Peabody, MA
01960), says Agent NDS, sells a "telephone loop
pickup coil", for $4.88.  I would assume it is
much like the Trinetics PC-48 inductive coupler.
I have not checked this place out, but it would
seem to be a good deal.
 
     Bay Technologies-(408)-737-8180 sells the
NSC 800 series of microprocessors and support
devices.  To find a supplier closer to you,
try calling National Semiconductor at (408)-
737-5000, and ask for your local distributor.
 
     American Microsystems, Inc. (AMI) produces
what they call the "Telecommunications Design
Manual".  This fine book, which is actually
a combination of AMI semiconductors, circuit
layouts, schematics, articles, and an informative
glossary, can be had for the price of a call
to (408)-246-0330.
 
     Bell System locks are a special brand: BEST.
They are what they claim to be.  I have never met
a person who could pick them.  What to do?  Take
a hacksaw to the lock from the top and cut the 
doorknob off.  Then throw the bolt with a 
screwdriver.  It takes about 20 minutes, but
it can be worth it.
 

Type Selection or M for list, 
P to set protocol, <CR> to exit: 
