                    ษอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออป
                    บ         Making A Silver Box         บ
                    บ         ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ         บ
                    บ             Lex Luther              บ
                    ฬอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออน
                    บ Edited, Formated to 80 Columns, and บ
                    บ     Formated to Lower Case By...    บ
                    บ              Caveman                บ
                    ฬอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออน
                    บ Didactic Gallery      (507)282-6053 บ
                    บ Courier 9600 HST                    บ
                    บ                                     บ
                    บ Ripco International   (312)528-5020 บ
                    บ Courier 9600 HST                    บ
                    ศอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออผ


Tools and materials :  Soldering Iron, Solder, Some 22 ga.wire, a SPDT switch,
and a screwdriver.


1) Unscrew your phone (must be a touch tone, desk type)
2) Remove the mounted pad and take the clear plastic cover from the bottom.
3) Hold the pad with the numbers 0, *, # facing you, and turn it upside down, 
   so you can see the yellow pc board.
4) You should see 2 black round doughnuts.
5) Position the board so the solder points for the left doughnut face you.
6) Count over four points from the left, and attach a (green) wire to that
   point.
7) Between you and the doughnuts, there should be 2 long yellow capacitors.  To 
   the right of these, and on the edge of the board there should be 3 gold 
   contacts. We will use the one on the left.
8) The contact originally is spot welded, so snip it open.
9) To the one nearest you, attach a (red) wire to the other one, a (yellow)
   wire.
10) Run the wires out of the phone, and solder the switch.
11) The orientation should be (red) to center. The switch will now alternate 
    between normal and 1633hz fourth column tones.


			Silver Box Documentation

The silver box transforms keys 3,6,9,# to A,B,C,D.  

Those tones stand for:

A - Flash
B - Flash override (priority)
C - Priority communication
D - Priority overide (top military)

	Those keys only work on certain networks.  Now what do you do with  
those extratones?  Call any long distance directory by dialing (area code)
555-1212 and while it rings press the # key then as the operator answers you 
will disconnect them instantly and hear a pulsing tone, press 6 (normal tone
and it will stop.  Then, if another person does the same thing on another
line and then presses 7 you should have a voice link.  414 A/C is good for one
that.  You can screw around with the tones and see what you get.