                 ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                 ³                                          ³
                 ³  ÛÛÛÛÛÛÛ»      ÛÛÛÛÛÛ»      ÛÛÛÛÛÛ»      ³
                 ³  ÛÛÉÍÍÍÍ¼     ÛÛÉÍÍÍÛÛ»     ÛÛÉÍÍÛÛ»     ³
                 ³  ÛÛÛÛÛÛÛ»     ÛÛº   ÛÛº     ÛÛÛÛÛÛÉ¼     ³
                 ³  ÈÍÍÍÍÛÛº     ÛÛº   ÛÛº     ÛÛÉÍÍÛÛ»     ³
                 ³  ÛÛÛÛÛÛÛº ÛÛ» ÈÛÛÛÛÛÛÉ¼ ÛÛ» ÛÛÛÛÛÛÉ¼ ÛÛ» ³
                 ³  ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼ ÈÍ¼  ÈÍÍÍÍÍ¼  ÈÍ¼ ÈÍÍÍÍÍ¼  ÈÍ¼ ³
                 ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ


        ßßßßßß  ßßßßßß  ßßßßßßß  ßßßßß  ßßßßßßß ßßß   ßß ßßßßßßßß  ßßßßß
        ßß   ßß ßß   ßß ßß      ßß      ßß      ßßßß  ßß    ßß    ßß
        ßßßßßß  ßßßßßß  ßßßßß    ßßßßß  ßßßßß   ßß ßß ßß    ßß     ßßßßß
        ßß      ßß  ßß  ßß           ßß ßß      ßß  ßßßß    ßß         ßß
        ßß      ßß   ßß ßßßßßßß ßßßßßß  ßßßßßßß ßß   ßßß    ßß    ßßßßßß

                    How to get Free Premium Cable Channels
                               By: Dave S.O.B.

_0.1_Introduction_

     Welcome to yet another fun filled document from your friends at S.O.B.
Now I'm sure you have heard various way to 'unscramble' premium cable 
channles with copper wire and all that crap. Well here is an easier way that
requires: No Metal, No Saudering, No electronic parts, and no intelegence
and at the same time can make you alot of money from the wondering idiots
that you call friends.

_0.2_S.O.B._

     S.O.B. or Servants of Babuska is a small group that has been together
for about two years now. Our field of expertice ranges from hacking to 
electronics. We have tried to stay local and take advantage of everything
we could, but we found we couldn't get acess on some systems that let you
in by reputation alone, so now we are releasing some documents that will
hopefully prove ourselves to fellow SysOps.

_0.3_Disclaimer_
                
     The Information provided here is made to eduacate the masses of the      
computer world. In no way to I condone or disapprove of what this document
states. If you are caught pirating cable channels I will not be held 
reponsible.

_0.4_Warning_

     Though it is unlikely that you will ever get caught with our proven 
method of cable channel descrambling it may happen. If a cable repair man 
ever comes to your house make sure to put all the equipment in a closet
away from the TV.

_1.1_The Table O' Contents_

_0.1_Introduction
_0.2_S.O.B.
_0.3_Disclaimer
_0.4_Warning
_1.1_Table O' Contents
_2.1_Cable Channel Descrambling in other documents
_3.1_TCI and other cable companys cable scrambling methods
_4.1_How to get these magic cylinders?
_5.1_How do I install these cylinders?
_6.1_How do I know this is safe?
_7.1_The Money Part
_8.1_Rapping it up

_2.1_Cable Channel Descrambling in other documents_

     In past documents I have read I have seen many a person claiming to have
the miracle cure to cable channel scrambling. The methods I have seen range
from rapping a copper coil wire around the Cable Input on your television to
getting your VCR to do it.. what we are about to explain here is the way
that TCI cable vision scrambles and descrambles there premium cable channels
and how you can use this knoweldge to get your own free channels.

_3.1_TCI and other cable companys cable scrambling methods_

     The wire that most companys use is 16hrz. If you just had a cable wire
from the company hooked up to your house you would recieve all the channels
they had except for those electronicly sent scrambled by the cable company.
How do they unscramble these channels and scramble others sent unscrambled
you ask? They use a small metal cylinder made by Eagle Electronics. We call 
them simply 'filters'. Though it may very from town to town each cylinder
etched by Eagle Electronics A-Z can scramble or descramble a channel. And
a seperate 'filter' must be added for each channel that is wanted to be 
scrambled or descrambled. 

     To explain the scambling of channels more throughly I will go more into
depth. Some channels are sent to your Television pre-scrambled to see these
channels the cable company attaches a filter for that channel that 
unscrambles the signal sent. While other channels are sent clear to your 
television set, the cable company puts a scrambling filter for that channel
to scramble it on your television. See the accomping ansi picture to see
what these filters look like.

_4.1_How to get these magic cylinders_

     These cylinders are attached to your main cable line. It is either on
a telephone poll or in a cable box some where on your block where many houses
are hooked up. Usually there in cable boxes. Cable boxes are usually small,
metallic, unlocked and unmarked. Just walk up to one and flip it open. You 
should see alot of cable wires and attached to it alot of small metalic 
cylinders, some of which may have a color band on it, these color bands are
used so the cable men can easily distinguish between the filters. Simply
reach inside that box and either take your time and unscrew it from the wire
and screw the wire back, or the prefered method: Rip the cylinder from the
wire, close the box and run like hell to your car or house near by. 

_5.1_How do I install these cylinders?_

     Easy, the cylinders plug directly into the back of your television. Just
hook it into the cable input and run the cable wire into the filter. Then 
scan the premium channels <HBO, Cinemax, etc..> and see which channels are 
unscrambled or if some channels are descrambled. You should try to find all
the filters in use by your cable company to find out which ones control
which channels. Also the great part of these filters are that the company 
can't detect them, and if they are coming over you can take them off the
TV and put them in a drawer some where. 

_6.1_How do I know this is safe?_

     To prove the point that a cable man cannot tell that you where or are
using these filters I called for a repair man to come and tell me why some
of channels where coming in staticy. I took the filters off, put them in a 
drawer in my room and waited for him to come. He did, he looked around and
found that the wire leading into the house was bad and replaced it. To him
nothing seemed out of the ordinary, and he left without even thinking that
I was pirating cable channels.

_7.1_The Money Part_

     Heres the part I'm sure you where waiting for, how do I make money off
these little God given wonders. Simple, sell them to friends, family and 
the dolts around school at any price, from 10-50$. You would be amazed at 
how many people will be willing to give generously for your stolen 
merchandise. The good part is that there is no overhead. They cost you 
nothing. The only people it costs is the cable company who have to replace
them when you steal them, because of which there will always be more to take.

_8.1_Rapping it up_

     Well, I hope you enjoyed this document and the others that our coming
out. If you see me on a BBS or anywhere else drop me a note and tell me you 
read this. I would be intrested in knowing if this works in every city. So
until the next document this is Dave S.O.B. signing off.
