
                    ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                    ³ÛÛÛÛÛÛÛ»      ÛÛÛÛÛÛ»      ÛÛÛÛÛÛ»     ³
                    ³ÛÛÉÍÍÍÍ¼     ÛÛÉÍÍÍÛÛ»     ÛÛÉÍÍÛÛ»    ³
                    ³ÛÛÛÛÛÛÛ»     ÛÛº   ÛÛº     ÛÛÛÛÛÛÉ¼    ³
                    ³ÈÍÍÍÍÛÛº     ÛÛº   ÛÛº     ÛÛÉÍÍÛÛ»    ³
                    ³ÛÛÛÛÛÛÛº ÛÛ» ÈÛÛÛÛÛÛÉ¼ ÛÛ» ÛÛÛÛÛÛÉ¼ ÛÛ»³
                    ³ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼ ÈÍ¼  ÈÍÍÍÍÍ¼  ÈÍ¼ ÈÍÍÍÍÍ¼  ÈÍ¼³
                    ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ


        ßßßßßß  ßßßßßß  ßßßßßßß  ßßßßß  ßßßßßßß ßßß   ßß ßßßßßßßß  ßßßßß
        ßß   ßß ßß   ßß ßß      ßß      ßß      ßßßß  ßß    ßß    ßß
        ßßßßßß  ßßßßßß  ßßßßß    ßßßßß  ßßßßß   ßß ßß ßß    ßß     ßßßßß
        ßß      ßß  ßß  ßß           ßß ßß      ßß  ßßßß    ßß         ßß
        ßß      ßß   ßß ßßßßßßß ßßßßßß  ßßßßßßß ßß   ßßß    ßß    ßßßßßß

                        How to tap someone's phone line
                               By: Dave S.O.B.

1. Introduction

        I forgot to put this in the last document "How to patch into other
people's phone lines". So I decided.. what the hell... just put it in another
doc instead of trying to update the other before it get's spread around.

2. Disclaimer

        This information is intended for Informational and Educational 
purposes only. If it is used for any other purposes I am not responsible for
any outcomes.

3. Table Of Contents.

1. Introduction
2. Disclaimer
3. Table Of Contents
4. Overview
5. Method I
6. Method II
7. Rap Up

4. Overview

        Ever wanted to find out exactly what your girlfriend or brother or
neighbors are talking about when your not around.. ever want to just listen
to someone else's phone calls just for the hell of it.. well this document
was made for you.. in it we will describe to ways to record and monitor your
target's phone calls. 

5. Method I

        Both methods involve the phone patching equipment described in our
last document.. How to Patch Into Other People's Phone Lines. Simply find 
your target's line by doing this 

1) Find the box near the house
2) Dial an ANI <Automatic Number Varifaction> number to see what number you
   are calling from.

        Now that you have found the line simply take off the phone cord that
is spliced into the aligator clips and replace it with a cord from a 
microphone or earphones. Then hook the clips to the line and the cord to a 
voice activated recorder with plenty of tape. But all of this in the box and
lock it up.. The next night come back for it and either take the tape and 
leave or change tapes and take the one you have home for your listening 
pleasure.

6. Method II

        Also once again you need the phone patching equipment mentioned in
our last doc "How to Patch Into Other People's Phone Lines". This method
will allow you to listen to the calls as they are happening from the comfort
of any room with a FM radio. You first must find the person's line by once 
again.

1) Finding a box near their house
2) Dialing an ANI to find the right number

        Ok.. now that you have done that you need to find a wireless FM 
microphone.. you can find these little babies at radioshack.. and a bit more
sophistacted ones in the back of popular science or in a Ham Radio magazine. 
Now once again hook the equipment to the proper set of prongs, this time 
hook the aligator clips to a pair of mono headphones which you tape next to
your FM wireless microphone. Make sure that the wireless mic is tuned to a 
dead frequency so that you can hear it all. Now simply tune in the new
station and listen in privacy to their intimate secrets. 

        If you find a wireless mic with a mic slot or if you can splice into 
the mic in the wireless mic all the better.. you also won't pick up 
background noise.

7. Rap Up

        Oh well, that's all for now.. look for more quality documents from 
your friends here at S.O.B. .. Servants Of Babuska .. call our fine 
distributation sites..

        House Of Sin.. 217-864-4796
    Total Corruption.. 217-874-2324











































































