
                  ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                  ³ÛÛÛÛÛÛÛ»      ÛÛÛÛÛÛ»      ÛÛÛÛÛÛ»     ³
                  ³ÛÛÉÍÍÍÍ¼     ÛÛÉÍÍÍÛÛ»     ÛÛÉÍÍÛÛ»    ³
                  ³ÛÛÛÛÛÛÛ»     ÛÛº   ÛÛº     ÛÛÛÛÛÛÉ¼    ³
                  ³ÈÍÍÍÍÛÛº     ÛÛº   ÛÛº     ÛÛÉÍÍÛÛ»    ³
                  ³ÛÛÛÛÛÛÛº ÛÛ» ÈÛÛÛÛÛÛÉ¼ ÛÛ» ÛÛÛÛÛÛÉ¼ ÛÛ»³
                  ³ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼ ÈÍ¼  ÈÍÍÍÍÍ¼  ÈÍ¼ ÈÍÍÍÍÍ¼  ÈÍ¼³
                  ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ




      ßßßßßß  ßßßßßß  ßßßßßßß  ßßßßß  ßßßßßßß ßßß   ßß ßßßßßßßß  ßßßßß
      ßß   ßß ßß   ßß ßß      ßß      ßß      ßßßß  ßß    ßß    ßß
      ßßßßßß  ßßßßßß  ßßßßß    ßßßßß  ßßßßß   ßß ßß ßß    ßß     ßßßßß
      ßß      ßß  ßß  ßß           ßß ßß      ßß  ßßßß    ßß         ßß
      ßß      ßß   ßß ßßßßßßß ßßßßßß  ßßßßßßß ßß   ßßß    ßß    ßßßßßß
                        
                        PBXs-Private Branch Exchange
                           Your Friend and Mine
                              By: Dave S.O.B.

1. Introduction

        From the dawn of bell man has sought to make free phone calls. The
PBX was a corprate answer to the reduced rate long distance bill. The PBX
or Private Branch Exchange has been used for years by large companies so that
their employee's could dial out throgh a phone line and pay a flat fee per  
month instead of hundred's of little calling card bills. 

2. Disclaimer

        As always all the information provided here withen is made for 
Education and Informational purposes only. The acutal use of this information
in the real world is neither condoned nor approved apon by the author. The
author takes no liablity for the actual application of the information 
provided in this document.

3. Table Of Contents

1.Introduction
2.Disclaimer
3.Table Of Contents
4.Basic Knowledge
5.Why You Won't Get Caught
6.How To Find A PBX
7.How To Get The Code

4. Basic Knowledge

        When you plan to get into any system you need to know the basics of  
it to understand and take advantage of it. PBX's are the same way, if you 
don't understand them then you can't use them to their full extent. A PBX or
Private Branch Exchange are set up by companies to let their employee's call
and enter their acess code and dial out across the country <and sometimes if
your lucky the world>. Why not a calling card? Simple, when you have one 
phone line at WATS <1800> dicounted rate the long distance calls are also 
cheaper. When you combine that with a flat fee that is negotiated because of 
mass use of the long distance service for a company you can see how much 
money they can save with it. Now that you understand their purpose you can 
go a step farther. To protect them selves the company had to add a acess code 
for their empoyee's or group of employee's. The codes can range from 1-9 
digits. If it is 10 or more digits be carefull this could be a phone company 
calling card accepter. Now systems vary but usually you enter the code and 
then the number you are dialing. Though in some cases you can enter the number 
and then the code. The nice part about PBX's is how polite they are. If you 
entered the wrong code it will let you enter the number and then either give 
you a busy signal or a message that the code is invalid.

5. Why You Won't Get Caught.

       You must realize that a company which is large enough to offer a pbx
on a 1800 number <though their are local pbx's> must have made a deal with
the long distance company to pay a flat fee per moth. Also remember
unlike the federal goverment companies have a budget. They would rather 
change the code than try to get you and prosecute you.

6. How To Find A PBX

        Well, as much as I hate to say.. I have yet to find a program that
can actually find PBX's. Usually you have to do it by hand. The PBX's that 
are most ideal are found in the 1800 prefix's. 1800-000-XXXX through 
1800-999-XXXX can be scanned for PBX's. Most PBX's will give you a dial tone
once you reach it, enter the code and then give you another dial tone. Then
you enter the phone number. Though this can vary. Other PBX's will have a 
automated message that says please enter your acess code, etc.. etc.. To 
find the code length simply go to the part where you enter the code and enter
one digit at a time, when it responds stop, count how many you have just 
pressed and you have the code length.
       
7. How To Get The Code

        Once you find a PBX and find the code length their are a variety of
programs you can use that will scan codes to find valid ones. How does it do
that you ask? Easily, the program will enter code/number and then number/code
the number it enters <which you tell it> should be a TYMNET or Sprintnet or
any other never busy carrier you know of. The program will then wait for a 
carrier, if it connects within the time given then it logs the number as a 
valid code. One of the best code theifing programs out there is called Code
Thief. -Note the official release of Code Thief at this time 4-29-94 is 3.1-
I will include this program with this document. Code Thief has worked for me
in such away as in finding a code in min 10 mins max 2 hours. 
