Telco Equipment:

A general overview of som of the equipment used by Telco.


Analog subscriber carrier systems:

Type: U1 Manufacturer: WECO

A frequency modulated carrier telephone system that provides an additional
single party telephone circuit over an existing physical one party line.

Type: SLC1 Manufacturer: WECO

A solid-state anolog carrier telephone system that provides an additional part
telephone circuit over an existing physical one party line.

Type: AML Manufacturer: RELIANCE TELCOM

A single channel amplitude modulated carrier telephone system that provides
an additional private line telephone circuit over an existing cable facility.

Type: TH1A Manufacturer: SEISCOR

A double sideband analog carrier system that provides 11 carrier derived
circuits combined with 10 physical derived circuits or 21 VF circuits on
11 pairs of non-loaded cable.

Type: CM4 Manufacturer: RELIABLE

A four channel solid state double sideband amplitude modulaed carrier
system. It provides four cahaanels of single or multi party service over
non-loaded cable facility. the physical circuit is usable to serve
subscribers.

Type: CM8 Manufacturer: RELIABLE

A compandered, amplitude modulated system designed to provide eight
channels over a single exchange grade cable pair. Each circuit is derived by
analog carrier frequency technique utilizing standard carrier frequencies
and levels. Options are provided to obtain single or multi party ringing
and two party ANI service.

Type: SSC5A Manufacturer: SEISCOR

A five channel solid state double sideband amplitude modulated carrier
system, that uses one unloaded cable pair. The physical circuit can not be
used to supply suscriber telephone service on a meallic basis when being
used as a carrier frequency transmission path and power feed for the SSC5A
system.

Type: S6A & S6B Manufacturer: ANACONDA

Six channel and eight channel solid state double sideband amplitude
modulated carrier systems that use one unloaded cable pair. The physical
circuit can not be used to supply a subscriber telephone service on a
metallic basis. The S6A system provides six channel or multi party subscriber
lines. The S6B provides eight.


DIGITAL SUBSCRIBER CARRIER SYSTEMS:

TYPE: SLC40 Manufacturer: WECO

Provides 40 full time speech channels between a central office terminal and a
single remote terminal using a T1 type digital line over exchange grade
non-loaded cable.

Type: SLC96 Manufacturer: WECO

A 96 line, digital subscriber carrier system that provides single
party,muliti-party,coin and most of the D4 special services including DDS data
port capability up to 56 KBS. The system uses 4 T! carrier lines; one for
each 24 channels and a sepperate T1 line for automatic switching upon
falier of any one of the four T1 lines in service.

Type: ITT324S Manufacturer: I.T.T. Co.

A 24 line, digital subscriber carrier system that provides single party,four
party, and coin services using standard T1 lines.


This will help enlighten you on the types of subscriber carrier systems in use
today. These pieces of equipment are what is in use when you pick up your phone
and open what is called a subscriber loop, they make the connection between the
subscribers phone to the co.

<S><C><A><N><*><M><A><N>

