    
    =======================================================================
    
    
                       C o d e   T h i e f   D e l u x e
              R e v i s i o n   3 . 5   D o c u m e n t a t i o n
                      B y   B r e w   A s s o c i a t e s
    
        A N   O F F I C I A L   P H O R T U N E   5 0 0   P R O D U C T
    
    =======================================================================
    
    -> Introduction To Code Thief Deluxe 3.5 <-

       Well, here it finally is.  Code Thief Deluxe 3.5.  If you are new to 
    Code Thief, this is the file to read.  If you are already familiar with 
    Code ÿThief, ÿespecially if you have Code Thief 3.0 ÿalready, ÿyou ÿcan 
    check ÿout just the new additions and updates to Code Thief ÿDeluxe ÿby 
    reading DELUXE.DOC, included in your Code Thief Deluxe ZIPfile. 
    
       As an incentive to read the documentation, ÿI ÿhave tried to lay out 
    all ÿof the 'little things' ÿabout the program and its behavior.  ÿThis 
    will ÿhelp you understand more.  ÿAlso notice that Code Thief does ÿnot 
    make any direct screen writes.  ÿAll screen access is done through ÿthe 
    BIOS.  ÿIts fast enough as it is, and shouldn't a hacker be able to run 
    in ÿthe BACKGROUND so you can do something else?  ÿAs I am writing this 
    documentation I am in DesqView, with Code Thief running concurrently in 
    another window.  

    -> Disclaimer <-

       There ÿis ÿno disclaimer.  ÿCode Thief was written with ÿthe ÿintent 
    purpose of committing the crime of 'theft of services'.  ÿOf course you 
    don't have to use it, ÿbut then again, ÿdo you have all of the money in 
    the ÿworld ÿat your disposal to pay for calling out of ÿstate ÿbulletin 
    boards plus the mainframes/mini computers that you are trying to hack? 
    
    -> From The Author <-

       A LOT of work has gone  into  the  Code  Thief  project,  especially 
    revision  2.x/3.x  of the program.  ÿIf you support the program then be 
    sure to upload it to any and all of your favorite boards.  It's a great 
    way ÿto increase your file points and ratio while helping ÿyour ÿfellow 
    long distance 'users'.

    -> An Official Phortune 500 Product <-
    
       My thanks to the Phortune 500 ÿBoard of Directors, ÿand the Phortune 
    500 membership.  The Phortune 500 Board of Directors as of now consists 
    of: ÿÿBrew Associates (author of Code Thief), ÿRenegade Chemist, ÿAahz, 
    Quinton J. ÿMiranda, The Spiker, Striker, Red Knight, Major Havoc, ÿand 
    Lord Lawless. 
    
    -> Starting The Program <-

       To start the program normally,  enter THIEF from DOS.  You can  also 
    enter THIEF xx:xx from DOS (substitute a valid time for xx:xx) and Code 
    Thief  will  automatically  hack  the  flagged  multiple extenders with 
    multiple targets until the time specified,  then drop back out to  DOS.  
    This is great for a BBS's batch file.  For instance,  you can have your 
    BBS invoke a batch file at a certain time.  This batch file  could  say 
    something  like  THIEF 5:30.  This will invoke multiple target/multiple 
    extender hacking until 5:30 am.  Note that all times  are  in  24  hour 
    mode.  Also,  if  no  multiple  targets  are  found  the  defaults  are 
    automatically used.  This modification is on the request of an Opus BBS 
    sysop.  Hope it comes in handy.  

                       IF THE PROGRAM IS STARTED NORMALLY
    
       When you first start the program you will see the main option  menu.  
    At this and any menu you can use the up and down arrow keys to move the 
    highlight  over  an  option and press RETURN or the SPACEBAR to finally 
    choose the option.  I will try to move you through the running  of  the 
    program  to  get it working on your machine so it is suggested that you 
    print this documentation out and work the actual program  as  you  read 
    it.  

    -> Setting Your Modem Paramaters <-

       The first thing you will probably want  to  do  is  set  your  modem 
    paramaters.  Use  the up and down arrow keys to move the highlight over 
    option "H" on the main option menu then hit CR or RETURN,  or just  hit 
    "H"  then  CR  or RETURN.  You will be greeted with three more options.  
    First  choose  "Modem  Specifics".  This  is  where  you  can  set  the 
    paramaters  for your particular modem.  If a default doesn't match your 
    configuration then use the up and down arrow keys to move the highlight 
    over the option then hit RETURN or SPACE.  The highlight will disappear 
    and ÿyou ÿcan make an entry.  ÿIf it is a number or some ÿother ÿfield, 
    enter the new value to use.  ÿIf it is some kind of a toggle, ÿuse your 
    left ÿand right arrow keys until what you want comes into view.  ÿPress 
    RETURN when you are satisfied with your choice.  
    
                                MODEM SPECIFICS

    COM Port       - This can be eighter COM1: COM2:, COM3: Or COM4:.  ÿUse 
                     the left  and right arrow keys to select Port 1, ÿPort 
                     2, Port 3, Port 4.  Then hit RETURN. 
    Baud ÿRate     - Enter  the  baud rate to open the ÿmodem ÿat ÿwhenever 
                     hacking ÿor ÿscanning is performed.  ÿYour choices are 
                     300 ÿBaud, ÿ1200 Baud, ÿand 2400 ÿBaud.  ÿThe left and 
                     right ÿarrow keys move you through the choices.  ÿÿHit 
                     RETURN when you are satisfied. 
    PBX Mode       - Choices are Yes and No.  The left and right arrow keys 
                     moves you ÿthrough the choices and RETURN selects.  If 
                     you ÿare ÿin ÿa ÿbuilding with a PBX then you have ÿto 
                     enter Yes for this option.
    PBX Digit      - This ÿis the PBX  digit.  ÿWhen you are in a ÿbuilding 
                     with ÿa PBX installed a certain digit has to be dialed 
                     to receive an outside line.  ÿIf PBX mode is No, ÿthen 
                     N/A will appear for Not Applicable.  ÿTrying to change 
                     this with PBX mode to No will cause it to beep at you.  
    PBX Delay      - This ÿis the number of seconds after entering the ÿPBX 
                     digit ÿto wait for the outside line.  ÿN/A if PBX Mode 
                     is No. 
    Local Dialing  - Not everyone has Touchtone (tm) ÿÿdialing ÿfrom ÿtheir 
                     home.  If you don't change this to Pulse.  Just select 
                     it with the highlight, ÿhit return, ÿthen use the left 
                     or ÿright ÿarrow ÿkey ÿto select the ÿnew ÿoption ÿand 
                     another return will make it permanent. 
    Speaker On     - Choose ÿYes to keep the speaker on during hacking ÿand 
                     scanning or No to keep it off. 
    Dial Tone Wait - This ÿis ÿthe number of seconds the modem is ÿto ÿwait 
                     after picking up the line until starting to dial.  ÿIt 
                     does this through the Hayes (and compatibles) ÿcommand 
                     registers. 
    Carrier Detect - This is the number of 1/10 seconds that a carrier must 
                     be present for the modem to detect it as valid.  ÿThis 
                     defeats some LD ÿservice's ÿfake-carrier routines that 
                     send ÿa ÿfake ÿcarrier ÿfor a short ÿperiod ÿof ÿtime.  
                     Remember ÿthat ÿREAL carriers are ÿsent for ÿa ÿlonger 
                     period ÿof time than fake carriers.  ÿExperiment ÿwith 
                     this one.
    Dialing Speed  - This is the speed of the touchtone dialer.  This is in 
                     1/100 of a second.  ÿThis number can range from 50-255 
                     (at least with the modem I use). 
    User String    - If there is something entered here then it is sent out 
                     to the modem.  If you have an advanced modem, then set 
                     it to "ATX6" ÿto enable your extended result codes for 
                     such ÿthings ÿas VOICE, ÿetc.  ÿYou can over-ride ÿthe 
                     "Speaker ÿOn" ÿÿsetting by making this "ATM1".  ÿÿThat 
                     would be stupid, but it's just an example. 
    
                               MODEM RESULT CODES

       In this section you enter the result codes that your modem uses when 
    in  non-verbose  mode.  Note  that the defaults should suffice.  If you 
    have ÿa ÿstrange ÿmodem configuration you can change ÿthese.  ÿÿNumbers 
    aren't the only thing allowed here, ÿyou can enter symbols like ";" ÿor 
    ":", or etc.  Someone had a strange "Hayes Compatible" modem and wanted 
    this capability.  I aim to please. 
    
    -> Edit Extender Configurations <-

       The next thing you will want to do is create configurations for  the 
    different   extenders   you   wish  to  hack.   Choose  "Edit  Extender 
    Configurations" ÿÿafter you exit back to the main options menu.  ÿIf no 
    EXTENDER.DAT ÿfile ÿexists, ÿone will be created for you with ÿa ÿdummy 
    initial record (you will want to change this of course, ÿ1-800-000-0000 
    is ÿnot ÿa valid extender).  ÿIf you haven't screwed anything up, ÿÿyou 
    should ÿnow see the first record of the sample EXTENDER.DAT I ÿincluded 
    in the Code Thief archive file.  ÿThese are just some 800 ÿextenders to 
    get you started.  Note that you might want to change some delays, ÿetc, 
    to work for you.  As they are now they work for ME.  Your case might be 
    different.  Experiment.  ÿHitting [A] will ADD AN EXTENDER to the file.  
    Hitting ÿ[E] ÿwill ÿEDIT the current extender (there's ÿthat ÿhighlight 
    again!).  ÿHitting ÿ[D] ÿwill ÿprompt you to confirm the ÿDELETE of the 
    extender ÿrecord.  ÿÿHitting [Q] will quit the ÿextender ÿeditor.  ÿÿTo 
    understand ÿall ÿof the fields for the individual extender, ÿÿlet's ÿgo 
    through ÿthe process of ADDING an extender.  ÿYou will notice that Code 
    Thief is an extremely complex code hacker.  But also note that there is 
    so ÿmuch flexibility that you will be able to hack just about ÿanything 
    that is out there, no matter what kind of format it is.  
    
    ADD AN EXTENDER

    When you choose to ADD an extender you will be given the opportunity to 
    enter ÿthe ÿcomplete  ÿconfiguration  for  the extender.  ÿÿThe  ÿfirst  
    thing  is  the telephone number of the extender. ÿAfter that is a short 
    note ÿused ÿto identify  the  extender.  ÿNote  ÿthat ÿthroughout  ÿthe 
    program ÿin ÿvarious ÿsections extenders are refered to by ÿthis ÿshort 
    note,  so make sure it is something you can  easily  recall.  ÿYou  can 
    make ÿit the number of the extender if you wish.  ÿAnything goes ÿhere, 
    but the program will beep at you if you try to leave it blank.  Next is 
    the length of the codes.  ÿFor METRO it is 6, ÿMCI calling cards it ÿis 
    14,  ÿetc. ÿNo code lengths of ÿ0 are allowed (it will beep).  Next  is  
    the  code  template.  ÿThis idea is borrowed from Fuckin' ÿHacker ÿfrom 
    2af because I think it ÿis  ÿa  very  powerfull  feature.  ÿIf this  is  
    used it completely over-rides the code length,  hacking mode, ÿstarting 
    code, and sequential increment in your configuration.  Anyway, here you 
    are to construct a "template" for your  codes.  For  instance, entering  
    "444XXX"  will  make every code 6 digits and starting in 444.  Entering 
    "0X1X2X" ÿwill make set the first, ÿthird,  ÿand fifth numbers in every 
    code ÿto 0,1, ÿand 2 respectively and the second, ÿfourth, ÿÿand ÿsixth 
    number in each code will be totally random.  Commas are also allowed in 
    the code template and will cause the modem to pause for 2 seconds.  For 
    instance,  XXXX,9 will cause a random 4 number code to be sent, a pause 
    for 2 seconds,  then a 9 will be sent.  This is good for hacking  PBX's 
    that  require  a  code  be sent then need a number for an outside line.  
    Leave ÿthe code template blank if you don't wish to use it. ÿÿNext ÿyou 
    will ÿenter the code delay.  ÿThis is the number of  seconds  to ÿdelay  
    before  sending the code.  Then you will enter the target delay.  ÿThis 
    is ÿthe ÿnumber ÿof seconds to wait until entering the ÿtarget ÿnumber.  
    Notice that also in the config is an option to put the  code  first  or 
    not.  If  the  code  is  sent  first  then the Code Delay should be the 
    number of seconds to wait after dialing the extender until the code  is 
    sent  after the extender answers and provides a dial tone.  If the code 
    is not sent first then the  target  number  will  be  sent  first.  The 
    target  delay should be the number of seconds to wait after dialing the 
    extender until the target is sent at the extender's dialtone.  Then the 
    code delay is the number of seconds to  wait  until  sending  the  code 
    AFTER  the  target  number  is sent.  The timeout is next.  This is the 
    number of seconds to wait for your  TARGET  number  to  answer.  If  it 
    doesn't  ÿanswer  ÿwithin ÿthis time the code ÿis ÿconsidered ÿinvalid.  
    Basically, the target delay tells the modem how long to wait.  When the 
    modem times out it tells Code Thief, and Code Thief moves on. Now enter 
    a default Target number.  ÿThis is a number that always answers with ÿa 
    modem ÿ(is ÿnever busy).  ÿTelenet is perfect for this (so ÿenter ÿyour 
    local ÿTelenet ÿnumber).  ÿÿNote that Code Thief can ÿalso ÿuse ÿrandom 
    multiple ÿtargets ÿ- this is covered in the MULTIPLE TARGET ÿCONVERSION 
    UTILITIES ÿthat has been included as a Code Thief companion program ÿin 
    your ÿCode ÿThief ÿARChive.  ÿRead CONVERT.DOC ÿfor ÿinformation ÿabout 
    targets and multiple ÿtargets ÿat that. ÿNext is the hacking mode.  Use 
    your ÿleft and right arrow keys to move through the selections and ÿhit 
    RETURN when you are satisfied.  ÿYou can have Random codes, ÿSequential 
    codes, ÿor Both ÿ- ÿsequential ÿcodes ÿwith a random increment.  If you 
    choose ÿSequential or Both you are now prompted for the starting ÿcode, 
    otherwise this value is set to N/A.  ÿNext  ÿyou enter  the  sequential 
    increment only if Sequential hacking is chosen.  ÿIf sequential hacking 
    is chosen then this is the number to increment ÿeach code by.  ÿIf Both 
    is ÿchosen, ÿÿthen this number is random in the range ÿof ÿ1-100 ÿÿwhen 
    hacking.  ÿÿIf ÿBoth or Random hacking is your chosen method ÿthen ÿthe 
    Sequential ÿIncrement is N/A.  Note that the sequential increment is an 
    integer, therefore any value from 1 to 32767 is valid.  If "Sequential" 
    hacking or "Both" ÿhacking is chosen and the increment ever exceeds the 
    code length, ÿonly the length of the code up to the code length will be 
    used.  ÿÿFor example, ÿwith a code length of 4 and an starting code ÿof 
    9999, ÿif an increment of 1 is made your next code will be 1000.  ÿÿNow 
    you ÿwill be prompted as to if ÿthe code should be entered first.  ÿUse 
    the left and right arrow keys to select Yes or No.  ÿIf you choose Yes, 
    then ÿthe code will be sent first.  ÿChoose No and the target ÿwill ÿbe 
    sent first.  Next is the target prefix digit.  ÿThis is a number to add 
    to the beginning of the target  number.  ÿFor  example,  ÿfor  the  MCI  
    calling card service ÿyou ÿenter the target first and prefix it with ÿa 
    "0".  ITT requires that the target  be  sent first  and  be prefixed by 
    a ÿ"1".  ÿÿOther ÿservices require that the CODE is sent first and ÿthe 
    target  ÿhas  NO  prefix.  Next  is  the  multiple extender  flag.  ÿIf  
    Yes then  the  extender will ÿbe ÿflagged immediately as one to be used 
    when Multiple Extender hacking is chosen.  If you choose No, ÿthen this 
    extender will be put  on  reserve.  More  on this comes later.  Next is 
    multiple port mode.  ÿÿSay the ÿextender number is  950-1000  ÿand  the 
    extender ÿhas ÿmultiple ÿport hunt groups from 950-1000 ÿÿto ÿ950-2000.  
    Choosing Yes to multiple ÿport mode will prompt you for the ending hunt 
    number (in ÿmy example it's 2000).  ÿNow Code Thief will randomly ÿpick 
    950-1000 ÿÿto ÿ950-2000 ÿwhenever it dials the extender. ÿÿEnding ÿHunt 
    numbers ÿMUST be four digits ÿlong ÿ(that should be ÿself-explanatory).  
    Note ÿthat ÿif ÿyour extender ÿis 1-800-555-0000 ÿand your Ending ÿHunt 
    Number is 0099 ÿCode Thief ÿwon't ÿscrew up by dialing 1-800-555-99 ÿor 
    whatever number is chosen.  It will properly dial 1-800-555-0099 (or 1-
    800-555-0050 or 1-800-555-0026, ÿetc, ÿetc, ÿetc).  Next you will enter 
    the filename to place valid codes in.  ÿValid codes are logged with the 
    time and date for convienence.  ÿAll valid code ÿfiles  ÿend  with  the  
    ".COD" extention.  ÿWhen  finished  ÿentering  all extender information 
    it is saved to the EXTENDER.DAT file. 

    OTHER EXTENDER EDITOR COMMANDS
    
    To  ÿnavigate  through the configurations use the LEFT and RIGHT ÿarrow 
    keys.  ÿÿTo ÿflag ÿan extender for deletion enter "D".  ÿÿYou ÿwill ÿbe 
    prompted to enter "Y" ÿif you are sure or "N" if  you  are  not.  ÿOnce  
    an extender has been flagged for deletion it will be skipped over ÿwhen 
    you ÿuse ÿthe left and right  arrow  keys.  ÿHit  "Q"  ÿto  quit  ÿthis 
    section.  When  you  hit  "Q"  all  extenders  flagged for deletion are 
    physically deleted.  Another  nice  feature  in  this  section  is  the 
    ability to edit extenders.  Hit "E" to choose edit.  The highlight will 
    appear.  You  can  use  the  left,  right,  up,  and down arrow keys to 
    navigate the hightlight over the option you wish to  change.  Then  hit 
    RETURN  or  SPACE  to  enter a new value.  When finished entering a new 
    value (either by the keyboard or left and right arrow keys) ÿhit RETURN 
    and ÿthe ÿhighlight will re-appear so that you may  move it  over  ÿnew  
    things  to edit.  ÿWhen finished editing hit "Q" ÿwhen the highlight is 
    present.  Note that everything  in  the  configuration  is described in 
    the ÿprevious paragraph.  ÿTo choose a particular ÿextender ÿby ÿrecord 
    number, ÿjust enter the number.  ÿYou can't ÿsee ÿextenders flagged for 
    deletion (it will not go to them). 

    One ÿmore thing on deletion extender configurations.  ÿIf in the course 
    of ÿusing this section you delete ALL of your extender ÿconfigurations, 
    the program will not have any configurations left to go to and it ÿwill 
    automatically ÿquit this section deleting the entire EXTENDER.DAT file.  
    When ÿchoosing ÿthis section again, ÿa ÿnew EXTENDER.DAT with ÿa ÿdummy 
    record will be created. 
    
    -> Edit The Multiple Target File <-

       Navigate back to the main menu.  Choose "Edit  The  Multiple  Target 
    File".  You  will  then be shown the current multiple target file.  Now 
    you can either hit "1" to add to it,  "2" to delete entries from it  or 
    "3"  to  quit.  Everything here is self-explanatory.  A multiple target 
    file is provided with the program.  It is kept in ASCII file format for 
    easy editing with your word processor, ÿif you wish.  ÿUse the MULTIPLE 
    TARGET CONVERSION UTILITIES in your Code Thief ARChive to get quick and 
    painless ÿupdates of your multiple target MTARG.DAT file off Telenet or 
    even ÿÿTymnet ÿat ÿregular ÿintervals.  ÿÿCode ÿThief ÿis ÿa ÿÿcomplete 
    professional system that will solve all your hacking needs. 

    -> Flag Extenders For Hacking Mode <-

       Exit ÿto the main menu and choose "Flag Extenders For Hacking Mode".  
    This  is  the option to choose to change the flags on extenders.  If it 
    is flagged then it will be one of  the  extenders  used  when  multiple 
    extender  hacking is chosen.  The extenders will be shown,  ÿeight to a 
    page.  A "+" in front of the extender means it will  be  included  when 
    multiple  extender  hacking  is  chosen,  otherwise  it will not.  This 
    option is included because some people don't want to hack  all  of  the 
    extenders  they  have  configurations  for.  Editing  an  extender  and 
    changing the multiple extender flag does the same thing,  but  this  is 
    easier.  If  there are more than eight extenders then they will take up 
    more than one page.  You can flip through the pages by  choosing  "Jump 
    To  Next  Page"  and  "Jump To Previous Page".  Hitting RETURN or SPACE 
    when the highlight is over an extener toggles the flag.  

    -> Deluxe Exchange Scanner <-

       Navigate ÿback  ÿto  the  main  menu  and  choose  "Deluxe ÿExchange 
    Scanner".  ÿÿThe ÿCode Thief Deluxe exchange scanner is a ÿfull ÿscreen 
    exchange ÿscanner that can scan multiple exchanges from a database that 
    you ÿcan ÿconfigure.  ÿWhen you choose this option if no exchanges ÿare 
    defined, a dummy first record will be created for you.  ÿNow hit [R] to 
    replace this record and enter an exchange to scan, ÿthe starting number 
    in the exchange, then the ending number.  To flag the exchange just hit 
    [+] ÿnext.  ÿUnflagging is done by hitting [-].  ÿNote that to scan you 
    must ÿhave at lease one flagged exchange.  ÿYou can't scan nothing ÿcan 
    you?  ÿÿÿThe ÿexchange ÿeditor ÿis ÿa ÿlot ÿlike ÿthe ÿ"Edit ÿÿExtender 
    Configurations" section.  To jump to a particular exchange, ÿjust enter 
    the ÿnumber.  ÿTo move through the exchanges record by record ÿuse ÿthe 
    left and right arrow keys coresponding to the direction in the file you 
    wish ÿto ÿmove.  ÿUse [A] to add an exchange.  ÿUse [D] ÿto ÿdelete ÿan 
    exchange ÿfrom the database.  ÿUse the [SPACEBAR] to toggle weather ÿor 
    not a particular exchange is in the toll free 1-800 area.  ÿHitting [Q] 
    will quit the exchange scanner section, ÿbut to start scanning hit ÿ[G] 
    for ÿGo.  ÿYou will be asked the timeout (number of seconds a ÿcomputer 
    should ÿanswer ÿin).  ÿÿThen ÿCode Thief will check ÿto ÿsee ÿhow ÿmany 
    exchanges are flagged.  When scanning and Code Thief reaches the ending 
    number ÿin ÿan ÿexchange, ÿthe exchange will be unflagged.  ÿÿWhen ÿall 
    flagged ÿexchanges ÿare changed to unflagged (all ÿexchanges ÿare ÿdone 
    being ÿscanned in the limits you specified in the configuration) ÿÿCode 
    Thief will quit the exchange scanner. 

    THE ACTUAL EXCHANGE SCANNER

    This ÿis ÿa ÿfull screen exchange scanner ala the movie ÿWarGames ÿ(the 
    movie ÿsucked ÿby the way) ÿand  it will  show  each  of  the  ÿnumbers 
    dialed.  ÿÿNumbers where computers are detected are shown BLINKING.  If 
    the modem does not detect ÿa dial  tone when  trying  to dial (receives 
    the no ÿdial ÿtone result code) it retrys the line.  After 5 retries it 
    exits the exchange scanner.  If the modem sends a BUSY result code that 
    is ÿlogged ÿto the CARRIERS.TXT  ÿdisk  ÿfile along with ÿnumbers ÿthat 
    produced a CONNECT result code of any baud.  It will  specifically  log  
    it as ÿa BUSY number or a number that the modem CONNECTed to.  ÿYou can 
    then ÿconsult ÿthe log and dial these numbers back manually if you wish 
    to ensure that the numbers listed as  busy  aren't important.  When the 
    screen fills up, Code Thief goes back to the beginning. 

    -> View/Delete Code Files <-

       When  you choose this option from the main option menu the disk will 
    be searched for files with a .COD extention.  If  there  are  any  they 
    will  be  displayed.  If  there are no files with a .COD extention that 
    will be displayed also.  You have the option of viewing  one  of  these 
    files or deleting one.  If you view one it will be one screen at a time 
    so  nothing scrolls past you.  Note that the time and date the code was 
    found is logged for your convienence.  

    -> View/Delete Carrier File <-

       This option is also on the main  option  menu.  All  carriers  found 
    when   using   the  exchange  scanner  are  logged  to  a  file  called 
    CARRIERS.TXT,  as well as BUSY numbers if the modem sends a BUSY result 
    code.  When  viewing the file it will be showed one screen at a time so 
    nothing scrolls past you.  You can also delete the file.  Note that the 
    time and date the number was found is logged for your convienence.  
            
    -> Start Hacking <-

       After you choose this option you will be prompted as to weather  you 
    want   to   do   Single   Extender/Single   Target   Hacking,    Single 
    Extender/Multiple  Target  Hacking,   Multiple  Extender/Single  Target 
    Hacking,  Or Multiple Extender/Multiple Target Hacking.  ÿIf you choose 
    multiple target hacking of any kind  the  targets  will  be  read  into 
    memory  before  hacking begins to cut down greatly on disk access time.  
    If single extender hacking is chosen  you  will  be  prompted  for  the 
    extender  to  hack.  Use  the  arrow keys to highlight the extender you 
    want then press RETURN or SPACE.  If there is more  than  one  page  of 
    extenders  then  highlight  "Jump  To  Previous Page" and "Jump To Next 
    Page" to navigate around the list.  

                              WHEN HACKING BEGINS
    
    You will  be shown  the  complete  statistics for every extender.  Also 
    shown ÿis the number of codes found,  ÿthe last code found as ÿwell ÿas  
    the  number  of codes  found  for  that  extender plus other statistics 
    for the current hacking run for each extender.  The number of extenders 
    you ÿcan have at any time is limited only to disk space,  ÿof  ÿcourse.  
    Multiple  ÿtargets are limited to 500.  ÿThis is, ÿI ÿthink, ÿmore than 
    enough.  If you chose to quit hacking at a certain time, that time will 
    be displayed on the screen as a reminder.  ÿHit ESCape to quit ÿhacking 
    at any time.  If you forgot to configure your modem and it is connected 
    to ÿCOM2 ÿÿ(the default is COM1) ÿthen Code ÿThief ÿwill ÿautomatically 
    recognize that ÿsomething is wrong and exit the exchange scanner.  ÿYou 
    can ÿalso ÿhit the SPACEBAR to skip to the next ÿcode.  ÿIf you have ÿa 
    picky modem like mine, only use the ESCape key or the SPACEbar when the 
    modem is not sending any DTMF to the line.  ÿBut if you DO screw up the 
    modem Code Thief will know and will make the attempt to recover. 
    
                          POSIBILITIES DURING HACKING

       Many things can happen during hacking.  For instance,  if the  modem 
    connects  the code and extender is logged to it's respective disk file.  
    If the modem sends an ERROR result code the current attempt is  retryed 
    again.  If NO DIAL TONE is detected by the modem the current attempt is 
    retryed.  ÿÿIf NO CARRIER or VOICE is detected by the modem the program 
    moves on.  ÿThe  maximum  number  of  retrys that can ever be done in a 
    row ÿis five.  ÿOh,  ÿif the modem sends a RINGING result code that ÿis 
    also ÿshown ÿto  the user while the modem waits to timeout or ÿconnect.  
    Ringing ÿdoes ÿnothing ÿbut just display "Ringing...".  ÿIf ÿthe ÿmodem  
    receives  a  busy signal  it goes on to another attempt.  I origionally 
    planned ÿon ÿmaking ÿit ÿretry ÿthe code but ÿI ÿremembered ÿthat ÿsome 
    extenders ÿsend ÿa  re-order which  is a fast busy signal that ÿcan ÿbe 
    detected by the modem and send a BUSY result code.  
    
    -> Closing Notes <-

       I  hope you understood this new documentation.  Im not really a good 
    writer,  ÿso if you have any questions leave me a note  on  any board I 
    happen to be on ÿand ÿI ÿwill ÿtry to answer it.  ÿI hope you like Code 
    Thief and find it usefull as I put a LOT of hours and hard work into it 
    until I was satisfied.  If anything goes wrong with the program on your 
    machine,  or anything else in general then leave me a note.  I will try 
    to diagnose the problem and stamp it out.  

                    COMMUNICATIONS ADDRESSES AND INTERRUPTS

       Here ÿare the communications address and interrupts that Code ÿThief 
    uses to access the communications ports.  ÿCOM1: and COM2: ÿare correct 
    for ÿ100% ÿÿof the applications.  ÿCOM3: ÿand COM4: ÿas defined by ÿthe 
    program will be correct 99% of the time.  If you have a COM3: modem and 
    Code Thief set at Port 3 doesn't work with it then change your modem to 
    COM1: ÿÿor COM2: ÿif possible.  ÿIf you really need YOUR communications 
    addresses and interrupts for COM3: ÿand COM4: ÿleave me a note with the 
    correct ÿinformation on any board I am on and I will try to get ÿyou ÿa 
    new ÿTHIEF.COM ÿand ÿTHIEF.000.  ÿÿBut ÿnote ÿthat ÿthe ÿaddresses ÿand 
    interrupts ÿused for COM3: and COM4: are going to be correct more times 
    than not. 

              Address  Interrupt                Address  Interrupt
              -------  ---------                -------  ---------
        COM1: 3F8      IRQ4               COM3: 3E8      IRQ4
        COM2: 2F8      IRQ3               COM4: 2E8      IRQ3

            
      F i l e s   S u p p l i e d   W i t h   C o d e   T h i e f   3 . 5

       Make ÿsure that these are the files you received in your ZIPfile ÿof 
    Code  Thief revision 3.5.  If these are not the files then what you got 
    is ÿsomething that  someone  else  re-ZIPed  and  forgot  ÿto  ÿinclude 
    something  in.  I  ask  that  you only distribute the origional ZIPfile 
    because people have confused themselves in the past. 

     THIEF35.DOC - Code Thief Deluxe v3.5 documentation
      DELUXE.DOC - What's new since Code Thief 3.0?
       THIEF.COM - Code Thief 3.5 - The actual program
       THIEF.000 - Primary ÿCode ÿThief ÿoverlay.  ÿÿMust be ÿin ÿthe ÿsame 
                   directory ÿas ÿTHIEF.COM and you must be logged to ÿthat 
                   directory
       MTARG.DAT - Code ÿThief ÿmultiple target file - use Multiple ÿTarget 
                   Conversion Utilities to make your own also 
    EXTENDER.DAT - Sample 1-800 extender file to get you started
    
                      MULTIPLE TARGET CONVERSION UTILITIES
                       A CODE THIEF 3.5 COMPANION PROGRAM
                (be sure to read CONVERT.DOC to understand this)

     CONVERT.COM - Multiple Target Conversion Utilities - The program
     CONVERT.DOC - Multiple Target Conversion Utilities - The documentation
     TELENET.LST - Sample file off Telenet to get you started
      TYMNET.LST - Sample file off Tymnet to get you started
      TYMFIX.COM - You must run TYMFIX to make TYMNET.LST into ÿTYMNET.FIX.  
                   Only TYMNET.FIX ÿwill ÿwork ÿwith ÿthe ÿMultiple ÿTarget 
                   Conversion ÿUtilities.  ÿÿAlso use TYMFIX.COM to fix the 
                   listings you ascii-download off Tymnet. 

