

==)--- P TO PAUSE S TO STOP ---(==

THE TRACE

The trace is the demon that haunts every phreaks worst nightmare. It's the
one element that he has little control over.  Even so, the trace is effective
only on the phreak usually a leech) who overstays his welcome on a code
Secondary long distance services like Mci and Sprint do not have the
ability touse Ma Bell's ESS at the drop of a dime.  They must follow the same
procedures that a private citizen would use to have a trap placed on his own 
line.

Let's say you've been getting threatening or obscene phone calls at home
You call your local phone company and they'll refer you to the police
Step One is the making of a police report. 
Step Two is to make a request from phone company, with police report in hand, 
         that they trap the line.
Step Three is the installation of the tracer. What happens now?

Dirty Uncle Ernie's ANI will be recorded the next time he calls. You
are required to note the time of the call so it can be compared to the record
A warrant will be issued for Ernie's arrest and then the court system takes 
over. My experience is that the local Telco discourages this procedure. They 
take, what ms to me, to be an excessive amount of time to install the tracer 
on the line, as much as a week. It is safe to assume that Mci would get faster 
service, but not by much.

Imagine this senerio. An Mci agent is standing at the front desk you in a
police station, right next to the hooker that's just been dragged in screaming
her head off. The cop in the chair is pulling desk duty for a variety
of reasons. A. He's a fuck up. B. He's been injured in the field. C. He's
old and waiting to die.  In all three cases, he's usually bored shitless.
It doesn't make for a friendly attitude. The cop is making out a theft
report in pencil. Officer Boredom asks for a list of the accounts that have
been defrauded. Joe Mci whips out a computer printout that is twenty to
thirty pages long. OB pisses in his pants, he has to manually transcribe
all that crap to the report. He's less than thrilled. Joe Mci's legs are
starting to ache, he doesn't have a chair and OB is getting writers cramp.
Finished with the police report, Joe Mci crawls over to Ma Bell's office
They aren't thrilled to see him either. All of the phreaks cover
a ten node span. They have to allot the computer time and space to handle the
pinning of every phone number dialed in those nodes, a massive task.
It's highly unlikely that a trace could be accomplished in the three day
period the Inner Core's procedure dictate. It's a more remote
possibility that Mci would even bother.
~r
Mci's new port monitoring software is responsible for the apprehension
of a number of phreaks (See Mci) and there is every reason to believe
that more will follow. This software package is currently being marketed to the
telco community. It is interesting that Mci has just changed their
billings to show the destination number AND the area (in script). The prime
benefit being, it's easier for the customer to spot a phreaked call. The
obvious deduction is that the software system is flawed.

Mci in Los Angeles recently boasted they'd apprehended and prosecuted
forty phreaks in a six month period. This figure strikes me as pathetic
when compared to the total volume of free calls placed on their systems
The telco's don't make their phreak losses public and would prefer that
the practice didn't become public knowledge. My best guestimate is that the
number active phreaks can be put in excess of fifty thousand.  Forty arrests 
would be insignificnt if the number were only one thousand.  The telco's 
inability to protect their systems has led to some interesting mind games on 
the part of their security departments. Mci security is well aware of the 
structure of the hack world. News spreads quickly, particularily when it's a 
bust. One phreak recently snatched in the 714 area was told by agents that his
hacks had been detected by ESS Keep in mind, Mci doesn't have direct access to 
ESS. That they busted him by pulling the DNR's (dialed number records). This 
story was planted with the full knowledge that it would be circulating within 
the hacker network in a very short period of time. They were right.The DNR's 
are the records of every single phone call made, even local calls. This is one 
of the products of ESS. The telco's keep these records for billing purposes. 
The hacker that is presumably making one hundred to two hundred phones calls 
could be found out by pulling the DNR's.  However, communication attorneys tell
me that it would be a blatant violation of the public's civil rights to even 
permit Mci or any other telco the chance to read that information. It is 
inconceivable that any local telephone company would make it available. The 
product of prosecution for wire fraud based on the DNR's would be would tainted and unuseable in court The claim of ESS and DNR activity is an obvious ploy to 
deter hackers away from their systems.
Ded Engine



DOWNLOADED FROM P-80 SYSTEMS.....
                           


LIBRARY MENU # 7

<A>Operator Crunch
<D>Cable Descrambling
<H>Cracking Univ Prod Code
<I>Electronic Switching
<J>Free Electricity
<M>New Electricity
<N>Peacock Systems
<R>Packet switching
<S>Remotes
<T>Beating The Scantron
<U>Silver Box
<V>Tap XXVII
<W>Newsweek Pts 1-4
<X>Sixt