                              APTRONIX 
                       2150 North First Street
                          San Jose, CA 95131
                           (408) 428-1888 
                          Fax (408) 428-1884
                  FuzzyNet (408)428-1883  data 8/N/1
   What is Fide?
   -------------

   Fide (Fuzzy Inference Development Environment) is a complete environment
   for the development of fuzzy logic-based systems.  Fide provides system
   engineers with the most effective fuzzy tools in the industry and runs in
   MS-Windows(TM)  on 386/486 hardware.  The price is $1495 and is available 
   now from Aptronix and authorized Motorola distributors.  The software 
   package comes with complete documentation on how to develop fuzzy logic 
   based applications, free telephone support for 90 days and access to 
   the Aptronix	FuzzyNet information exchange.
   
   Fide employs a friendly and useful tool for each level of debugging,
   including data tracing, analysis and simulation.  These tools present the
   inference unit's behavior from the perspective of the user and enable
   interactive debugging of the fuzzy model and the inference process.  If
   the inference unit does not perform as expected, these tools lead the user
   to the bug location in the source code.  Engineers will feel comfortable
   developing applications with Fide because the interaction of the tools
   follow a traditional programming approach of design, simulation and
   analysis.
   
   Specify the fuzzy inference system effectively
   ----------------------------------------------

   Fide is based on a language called FIL (Fuzzy Inference Language).  Because
   FIL is a non-sequential language with English-like statements, using FIL
   is very easy.  Although simple to learn, FIL incorporates the most
   efficient inference methods and a rich variety of logic operators for
   different applications.  FIL also provides optimized flexibility for
   membership function representation and the data types required by separate
   target processors.
   
   Take advantage of an open architecture that offers easy compatibility
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   For the first time, a complete standard for fuzzy systems is combined into
   one unit called FSSE, Aptronix's fuzzy system standard environment.  In
   order to provide the user with an open architecture environment, Aptronix
   has made FSSE available to the public.  FSSE consists of data formats for
   membership functions, inference rules, inference units and other fuzzy
   inference parameters.
   
   Simulation instead of fabrication
   ---------------------------------

   Testing a system is usually expensive, time consuming and sometimes
   impossible.  With Fide engineers can design, simulate and perfect an
   entire dynamic system, including hardware, before building anything.  
   Engineers can perfect designs and examine trade-offs while avoiding costly
   errors in the fabrication or assembly stages of construction.
   
   Get the product to market faster
   --------------------------------

   Fide's integrated tools provide the most efficient environment to debug,
   analyze and simulate the behavior of a system.  The time from conceptual
   design to testing and implementation is reduced dramatically.
   
   

                    HOW TO USE FIDE IN THREE EASY STEPS
                    -----------------------------------

   A fuzzy logic system is based on fuzzy inference units integrated with
   non-fuzzy units.  Fide is designed to cover the entire spectrum of the
   system design process, both at the unit and system level.  To design a
   fuzzy inference unit, follow these three steps:
   
    
                      STEP #1 - Write the source code.
   
   All source code is written in FIL (the language for fuzzy inference). 
   Specify the input/output variables, the membership functions associated
   with them, and the inference rules with FIL.  If the system requires
   special logic operators and inference methods, FIL provides the capability
   to tailor the source code for specific requirements.
   
    
   Use the Fide graphic editor to draw a graph of the membership function (as
   opposed to using a text editor and FIL to describe a membership
   function.)  The editor automatically converts the graph into a segment of
   code.  The Fide compiler translates the source code into the Aptronix
   standard data structure.
   
   
                          Step #2 - Debug the code
   
   Fide provides an elegant way to view a unit from multiple perspectives via
   three powerful debug tools. 
   
                                   TRACER
   
    
         A. By using the Fide tracer, designers can set the input
         variable to any test value and observe the output
         value.  If undesired results occur, it is easy to
         trace into the details of the inference process, step
         by step, and locate the specific location where the
         source code can be edited and the bug fixed.
      
   
   
                                  ANALYZER
   
       
         B. The next debug tool is the Fide analyzer which
         displays a global view of the transfer function
         response.  Here, input/output relationships are
         displayed as a three dimensional structure.  Advanced,
         interactive 3-D graphics let users check the function
         in detail, examining the surface from a variety of
         perspectives.   Aptronix has made an important 
         advancement in debugging technology by combining the
         analyzer and simulator with the tracer.  Using a
         hot-link to the tracer, engineers can trace the
         inference process at any selected point on the surface
         -- even to the source level.
         
   
   
                                 SIMULATOR
   
      
         C.  The final debug tool is the Fide simulator.  It
         runs the unit with input values prepared in an input
         value file.  The  simulator displays curves of the
         output values and simulates the unit's dynamic
         behavior.  Again, a hot-link to the tracer is provided
         for immediate access to the source code level
         providing unprecedented debugging capability.
         
      
                  Step #3 -- Generate the real-time code.
   
    
         Once a processor has been selected for implementation,
         the corresponding Fide RTC (real-time code) generator
         can be used for that chip.  If the unit is implemented
         in software, the Aptronix run-time library, when 
         linked into a C program, performs the fuzzy inference
         computation.
         
         
             System integration with Fide using Composer
             -------------------------------------------
   
   There is a unique way of graphically simulating and testing a system
   of fuzzy inference units and application specific code with Aptronix
   Composer.  When using the Composer, a system is regarded as an open or
   closed loop consisting of units connected with data transfer
   channels.  In addition to fuzzy inference units, users can integrate
   other software modules, such as operation units (performing
   mathematical operations) and/or execution units (describing prepared
   software modules). 
      
      
      
                               COMPOSER
   
    
      Source code can be written or drawn using the graphical
      editor.  The system integration language, called FCL
      (Fide Composer Language) has textual and graphical
      representations.  In its graphical representation, a
      system is described by drawing a chart of data flow
      paths between units.  In its textual representation, a
      system is described by listing the units and the data
      transferred between them.
      
      The Composer textual editor and Composer graphical
      editor are used to design and modify the system and a
      built-in converter can change one representation to
      the other.  To test the system, the data flow viewer
      or the dynamic simulator is used.
      
      The data flow viewer allows testing of the unit by
      setting input values and observing the details of data
      flow in the system.  If a fuzzy inference
      unit is found to have an undesired response, a
      hot-link automatically takes the user to the tracer.
   
      The dynamic simulator analyzes the dynamic behavior of
      the system.  The user initializes the system with any
      values, sets terminating conditions and then lets the
      system run automatically.  When the terminating
      conditions are met, the values of all selected
      input/output variables are displayed as time-value
      graphs.
      
   

   Applications
   ------------
      
   Fuzzy logic can improve system performance and reduce design time and cost
   in a wide range of applications. Such as:
   
   Automotive
   
   In order to improve quality, performance, and shorten development cycles,
   major automotive manufacturers are now using fuzzy technology.  Typical
   applications include fuzzy engine control, fuzzy cruise control, fuzzy
   anti-lock braking systems and fuzzy transmission systems.
   
   Aerospace
   
   The aerospace industry requires real-time high-performance systems that
   present difficult problems for engineers.  Fuzzy technology proves new and
   useful methods of approaching design of these challenging systems.
   
   Appliances
   
   Fuzzy technology simplifies the product design and development cycle,
   lowers production costs, and improves product performance.  Many consumer
   manufacturers have been quick to implement fuzzy technology into new
   products such as washing machines, air conditioners, cameras, VCRs and
   televisions.
   
   Chemical
   
   The complexity of system modeling is a very difficult problem in the
   chemical industry. The descriptive modeling feature of fuzzy logic makes
   it an idea tool for complex systems design.
   
   General Manufacturers
   
   Fuzzy logic-based real-time diagnosis and control systems are invaluable
   for increasing equipment efficiency and diagnosing malfunctions.
   
   Civil Engineering
   
   Traditional system analysis and assessment are based on inexact conceptual
   models which may lead to errors in system analysis.  Since fuzzy
   technology describes the system more accurately, the assurance of systems
   analysis is increased.
   
   Finance
   
   Fuzzy systems provide a methodology for modeling the uncertainly in market
   trends and risk analysis.  Using fuzzy logic, the financial world can
   develop models that are more realistic.
   
   Education
   
   Academic institutions can use Fide to reach and perform research in fuzzy
   inference-based systems design and related work.  Aptronix has close ties
   with the research community through it's University Program.  Through this
   program, Aptronix shares important developments in fuzzy technology with a
   future generation of engineers.
   
   

                         APTRONIX COMPANY OVERVIEW
                         -------------------------
   
   Headquartered in San Jose, California, Aptronix develops and markets fuzzy
   logic-based software, systems and development tools for a complete range
   of commercial applications.  The company was founded in 1989 and has been
   responsible for a number of important innovations in fuzzy technology.
   
   Aptronix's product Fide (Fuzzy Inference Development Environment) -- is a
   complete environment for the development of fuzzy logic-based systems. 
   Fide provides system engineers with the most effective fuzzy tools in the
   industry and runs in MS-Windows(TM) on 386/486 hardware. The price is 
   $1495 and is available now from Aptronix and from authorized Motorola
   distributors.  The software package comes with complete documentation on
   how to develop fuzzy logic based applications, free telephone support for
   90 days and access to the Aptronix FuzzyNet information exchange.
   
   Aptronix Customer Support Services
   ----------------------------------
   
   When you contact Aptronix Technical Support, you have direct access to
   experience.  Each member of the Aptronix Customer Support Group works with
   Fide every day.  We consult with Aptronix programmers on design and
   useability issues, and we work regularly with application engineers who
   utilize Fide to build advanced fuzzy logic applications.
   
   Whether you are working on a deadline and need a quick answer, or cannot
   find the answer in your manual, call Aptronix Technical Support Services. 
   We have the experience -- and we have the answers.
   
   Get the Answers - Free For 90 Days
   ----------------------------------
   
   When you are getting started with Fide, call the experts at Aptronix any
   business day.  We provide 90 days of free telephone service from the time
   you send in your registration card.  Our telephone support hours are from
   9am - 5pm Pacific Standard Time. 
   
   After 90 days, you can continue to access Aptronix Technical Support by
   using the Aptronix FuzzyNet BBS, fax or mail.  All you need to do is
   register your copy of Fide.
   
   Aptronix one year extended support
   ----------------------------------
   
   For on going support and advice on more advanced uses of Fide, Aptronix
   provides its AES - Aptronix Extended Support services.  This program
   includes the following assistance:
   
   1. Tips and tricks for advanced uses of Fide
   
   2. An analysis of the fuzzy inference units you have designed and
   recommendations on how to optimize the performance of your inference
   unit(s).  Customers will need to send example Fide source code and a
   summary of the applications.
   
   3. Advice on how to integrate fuzzy inference units into applications to
   improve speed and performance of the overall system.
   
   The price for this service is $550 per year and it includes a 9600 baud
   external modem for high speed access to our FuzzyNet electronic BBS
   system.  Telephone support is also included with this service contract.
   As an option, users can purchase this service for $350 without the modem --
   although we highly suggest using a modem for access to our FuzzyNet
   system.
   
   Customer engineering solution services
   --------------------------------------
   
   Aptronix also provides Customer Engineering Services for a complete
   solution to your application.  Aptronix engineers can design your
   turn-key system and share our experience and expertise in fuzzy logic.  
   Through Aptronix, you get the best solution for your application so you
   will create better products faster.  This service is individually
   negotiated based on the scope of the project and requires a detailed
   description of your application.  Please call (408) 428-1888 for more
   information.
   

        
                           BACKGROUND INFORMATION
                           ----------------------
   
                            What is fuzzy logic?
   
   Fuzzy logic is a powerful problem-solving methodology with a myriad of
   applications in embedded control and information processing.  Fuzzy logic
   provides a remarkably simple way to draw definite conclusions from vague,
   ambiguous or imprecise information.  In a sense, fuzzy logic resembles
   human decision making with its ability to work from approximate data and
   find precise solutions.
   
   Fuzzy logic is based on fuzzy set theory.  Unlike traditional " either/or"
   set theory, fuzzy logic does not impose rigid classifications such as true
   or false, black and white, 0 or 1, etc.  Membership in fuzzy sets is a 
   continuous phenomenon, with values ranging from 0 to 1.  This allows
   programmers to model vague and subjective concepts such as "very hot,"
   "bright red," and "a long time".
   
   
                            Why Use Fuzzy logic?
   
   Using fuzzy logic, system designers can realize lower development costs,
   superior features, and better end product performance.  Most importantly,
   products can be brought to market faster and more cost-effectively. 
   Several factors make fuzzy logic desirable to the system designer.
   
   1. Describe and model solutions to a problem without having to use complex
   mathematical models for systems and development.
   
   2. Optimize a known solution in order to obtain a simpler and more
   effective implementation.
   
   3. Simplify the system design process, thereby decreasing development
   costs.
   
   4. Make the system more descriptive.  A system is more convenient to
   manage, maintain, upgrade and is easier to differentiate with less
   risk.
   
   5. Have a higher fault-tolerance and a better trade-off between system
   robustness and system sensitivity.
   
   6. Provide products with powerful features and performance within a price
   range unmatched by other solutions.
   
   
                      For Further Information Contact:
   
                                 APTRONIX 
                          2150 North First Street
                             San Jose, CA 95131
                              (408) 428-1888 
                             Fax (408)-428-1884
                     FuzzyNet (408)428-1883  data 8/N/1
   
   July 92



