   WHAT IS FUZZY LOGIC?
   
   Fuzzy logic is a powerful problem-solving methodology with a myriad of
   applications in embedded control and information processing.  Fuzzy logic
   provides a remarkably simple way to draw definite conclusions from vague,
   ambiguous or imprecise information.  In a sense, fuzzy logic resembles
   human decision making with its ability to work from approximate data and
   find precise solutions.
   
   Fuzzy logic is based on fuzzy set theory.  Unlike traditional " either/or"
   set theory, fuzzy logic does not impose rigid classifications such as true
   or false, black and white, 0 or 1, etc.  Membership in fuzzy sets is a 
   continuous phenomenon, with values ranging from 0 to 1.  This allows
   programmers to model vague and subjective concepts such as "very hot,"
   "bright red," and "a long time".
   
   
  WHY USE FUZZY LOGIC?
   
   Using fuzzy logic, system designers can realize lower development costs,
   superior features, and better end product performance.  Most importantly,
   products can be brought to market faster and more cost-effectively. 
   Several factors that make fuzzy logic so desirable to the system designer.
   
   1. Describe and model solutions to a problem without having to use complex
   mathematical models for systems and development.
   
   2. Optimize a known solution in order to obtain a simpler and more
   effective implementation.
   
   3. Simplify the system design process, thereby decreasing development
   costs.
   
   4. Make the system more descriptive.  A system is more convenient to
   manage, maintain, and upgrade, and is easier to differentiate with less
   risk.
   
   5. Have a higher fault-tolerance and a better trade-off between system
   robustness and system sensitivity.
   
   6. Provide products with powerful features and performance within a price
   range unmatched by other solutions.
   
   
                      For Further Information Contact:
   
                                 APTRONIX 
                          2150 North First Street
                             San Jose, CA 95131
                              (408) 428-1888 
                             Fax (408)-428-1884
                     FuzzyNet (408)428-1883  data 8/N/1
