I was reading the FAIRFIELD DAILY REPUBLIC yesterday when my eyes 
suddenly caught on a headline which really grabbed me. The article 
had to do with dogs and other animals receiving small computer 
chip identification 'tags'. The miniature chips are inserted into 
the animal via an ordinary syringe and, having been programmed, 
are read with a small radio device, which is capable of 
displaying information on the animal. 

Anyone with biblical background or upbringing can readily appreciate 
what this means to the average you and me. Ever recall hearing of the 
'Mark of the Beast'? Let me refresh your memory a little. In the book 
of Revelations, chapter 13, it mentions this 'mark' and the fact that 
it will be on the right hand or the forehead. It also mentions that 
no man will be able to sell or trade without having this mark on his 
body. In Belgium, there is currently a huge computer in operation 
which is named...you got it, The Beast. 
So, what does Rover's innocent, little ID chip have to do with us and 
this so-called 'Mark of the Beast'(666)? Well, think about it for a 
second... If we can insert a small chip into our little pet which can 
be read and programmed from the outside, then we can certainly program 
a miniature chip with our Social Security, bank, employment, and other 
pertinent information which would be essential for us to carry on in 
our daily lives. Why the right hand or forehead? Scientists are 
CURRENTLY working on a chip which CAN be imbedded in HUMAN flesh and 
it just so happens that the temperatures in the forehead and right 
hand, of the human body, are perfect for recharging the chip's 
rechargeable battery. Tests which placed the device in other parts of 
the body were unsuccessful in maintaining a charge. 
I've scanned the article and have included it here for your 
convenience. Read it and draw your own conclusions as to how this 
technology has future applications. 

The following article was taken from the Monday, November 8, 1993 
Fairfield Daily Republic on page A8.

High-tech dog tag

TOLEDO--Rover's dog tag is
entering the electronics age.
The newest thing in pet identi-
fication is a computer chip,
implanted beneath the animal's
skin, that has an identification
number programmed into it.
When a stray pet is found, an
electronic scanner is used to read
the number, which is then
checked against a register of own-
ers. The chip is a permanent
identifier that cannot be altered.
"It's injected with a needle
under the scruff of the neck in a
dog or cat explains veterinarian
David Thornton. "Birds are done
in the pectoral muscle, and the
needle is only inserted part way.
The procedure causes the pet
no more discomfort than an ordi-
nary rabies or distemper shot,
adds Thornton, who has implant-
ed 200 of the devices in pets.
