                               ษอออออออออออออออป
                               บCEREMONY OF THEบ
                               บ  NINE ANGLES  บ
                               ศอออออออออออออออผ

                             `The Satanic Rituals'
                              Anton Szandor LaVey
                                   (c) 1972

                                  Written by:
                             Dr. Michael A. Aquino


     [This ceremony is to be  performed  in a  closed chamber containing no 
     curved  surfaces  whatsoever.  No open flames are to be in the chamber 
     except for  a  single  brazier  or flame pot.  General illumination is 
     provided through controlled  starlight or moonlight,  or via concealed 
     ultraviolet devices. Above and behind the altar platform should appear 
     the outline of a regular trapezoid. The celebrant and participants all 
     wear masks or headpieces to  blur or distort the true facial features.

     All participants  assemble  in  a  half-hexagonal formation facing the 
     large trapezoid emblem.  The celebrant stands before the altar, facing 
     the participants.  He raises his left hand in the Sign of Horus:]

CELEBRANT:              N'kgnath ki'q Az-Athoth r'jyarh
                    wh'fagh zhasa phr-tga nyena phragn'glu.

                     Let us do honor to Azathoth, without
                   whose laughter this world should not be.

                       [Participants answer the gesture]

PARTICIPANTS:           Ki'q Az-Athoth r'jyarh wh'fagh
                        zhasa phr-tga nyena phragn'glu.

                         Honor to Azathoth, with whose
                      laughter this world should not be.

CELEBRANT:              Kzs'nath r'n As-Athoth bril'nwe
                        sza'g elu'khnar rquorkwe w'ragu
                         mfancgh' tiim'br vua. Jsnuf a
                       wrugh kod'rf kpra kybni sprn'aka
                      ty'knu El-aka gryenn'h krans huehn.

                     Azathoth, great center of the cosmos,
                     let thy flutes sing unto us,  lulling
                     us against the terrors of thy domain.
                     Thy merriment sustains our fears, and
                     we rejoice in the World of Horrors in
                                   thy name.

PARTICIPANTS:           Ki'q Az-Athoth r'jyarh wh'fagh
                        zhasa phr-tga nyena phragn'glu.

                         Honor to Azathoth, with whose
                      laughter this world should not be.

          [Celebrant lowers hand, then renders the Sign of the Horns 
          with his right hand.   All participants echo the gesture.]

CELEBRANT:            N'kgnath ki'q Y'gs'Othoth r'jyarh
                       fer'gryp'h-nza ke'ru phragn'glu.

                   Let us do honor to Yog-Sothoth,  without
                    whose sign we ourselves should not be.
               
PARTICIPANTS:             Ki'q Y'gs'Othoth r'jyarh
                       fer'gryp'h-nza ke'ru phragn'glu.

                     Honor to Yog-Sothoth,  without whose 
                       sign we ourselves should not be.

CELEBRANT:            Kh'run-mnu kai Y'gs-Othoth hrn-nji
                     qua-resvn xha drug'bis pw-nga s'jens
                       ni'ka quraas-ti kno'g nwreh sbo-j
                      rgy-namanth El-aka gryenn'h. Ky'rh
                     han'treh zmah-gron't k'renb phronyeh
                      fha'gni y'g zyb'nos vuy-kin'eh kson
                                  wr'g kyno.               

                      Yog-Sothoth, master of dimensions,
                     through thy will are we set upon the
                     World of Horrors. Faceless one, guide
                     us through the night of thy creation,
                      that we may behold the Bond of the
                      Angles and the promise of thy will.

PARTICIPANTS:             Ki'q Y'gs'Othoth r'jyarh
                       fer'gryp'h-nza ke'ru phragn'glu.

                     Honor to Yog-Sothoth,  without whose 
                       sign we ourselves should not be.

                 [Celebrant raises both arms away from him at 
                  a sharp angle.  Participants do likewise.]

CELEBRANT:            Z'j-m'h kh'rn Z'j-m'h kh'r Z'j-m'h
                         kh rmnu. Kh'rn w'nh nyg hsyh
                      fha'gnu er'ngi drg-nza knu ky cry-
                        str'h n'knu. Ou-o nje'y fha'gnu
                      qurs-ti ngai-kang whro-kng'h rgh-i
                       szhno zyu-dhron'k po'j nu Cth'n.
                               I'a ry'gzengrho.

                      The Daemons are, the Daemons were,
                     and the Daemons shall be again. They
                      came, and we are here: they sleep, 
                      and we watch for them.  They shall
                    sleep,  and we shall die, but we shall
                      return through them.  We are their
                     dreams, and they shall awaken.  Hail
                            to the ancient dreams.

PARTICIPANTS:                  I'a ry'gzengrho.

                          Hail to the ancient dreams.

                 [The celebrant now turns to face the altar.]

CELEBRANT:             Kh'rensh n'fha'n-gnh khren-kan'g
                      N'yra-l'yht-Otp hfy'n chu-si whr'g 
                       zyb'nos thu'nby jne'w nhi quz-a.

                     I call now to the unsleeping one, the
                    black herald, Nyarlathotep, who asureth
                   the bond between the living and the dead.

PARTICIPANTS:                 I'a N'yra-l'yht-Otp.

                              Hail,  Nyarlathotep.

CELEBRANT:              Kh'rengyu az'pyzh rz'e hy'knos
                       zhri ty'h nzal's za naagha hu'h-
                       nby jne'w nhi quz-al hjru-crusk'e
                         dzund dkni-nyeh ryr'ngkain-i
                         khring's naaghs pyz'm ry'gzyn
                        rgy-namanth El-aka gryenn'h tko
                         f'unga l'zen-zu dsi-r p'ngath
                    fha'gnu nig-quz'a i'a N'yra'l'yht-Otp.

                      O dark one, who rideth the winds of
                        the Abyss and cryeth the night
                       gaunts between the living and the
                      dead, send to us the Old One of the
                        World of Horrors, whose word we
                      honor unto the end of the deathless
                          sleep. Hail, N'yarlathotep.

PARTICIPANTS:                 I'a N'yra-l'yht-Otp.

                              Hail,  Nyarlathotep.

CELEBRANT:             I'as urenz-khrgn naaghs z'h hyle
                       fer-zn cyn.  I'as aem'nh ci-cyzb
                        vyni-weth w'ragn jnusf whrengo
                       jnusf'wi klo zyah zsybh kyn-tal-o
                                  huz-u kyno.

                  Hail to thee, black prince from the grotto 
                   whose charge we bear. Hail to thee and to 
                  thy fathers, within whose fane thou laughs 
                  and screams in terror and in merriment, in 
                   fear and in ecstasy, in loneliness and in 
                       anger, upon the whim of thy will.

PARTICIPANTS:          I'a N'yra-l'yht-Otp urz'n naagha.

                   Hail, Nyralathotep,  prince of the Abyss.

CELEBRANT:             V'hu-ehn n'kgnath fha'gnu n'aem'nh
                       Kzren ry'gzyn cyzb-namanth El-aka
                         gryenn'h kh'renshz k'rahz'nhu
                     zyb'nos y'goth-e vuy-kin'eh nals zyh.

                     In thy name let us behold the father.
                     Let the Old One who reigneth upon the
                     World of Horrors come and  speak with
                     us, for we would again strengthen the
                     bond that liveth within the angles of
                             the Path of the Left.

      [The celebrant stands directly  before  the  altar,  clenching both
      fists and crossing the left hand over the right against his chest.]

CELEBRANT:             I'a Sh'b-N'ygr'th aem'nh El-aka
                      gryenn'h. I'a aem'nh kyl-d zhem'n.
                      I'a zhem'nfni n'quz n'fha'n-gn ki-
                              qua hu[ehn zyb'nos.

                      Hail, Shub-Niggurath, father of the
                     World of Horrors. Hail, father of the
                      hornless ones. Hail, ram of the Sun
                      and deathless one, who sleepest not
                     while we honor thy name and thy bond.

PARTICIPANTS:                 I'a  Sh'b-N'ygr'th.

                             Hail, Shub-Niggurath.

            [The Goat of a Thousand Young appears. All participants
            clench their fists after the  fashion of the celebrant]

CELEBRANT:                        I'a aem'nh.

                                 Hail, Father.

PARTICIPANTS:                     I'a aem'nh.

                                 Hail, Father.

           SHUB-NIGGURATH:      Phragn'ka phragn. V'vuy-kin'e f'ungn
                     kyl-d zhem'n k'fungn zyb'nos Z'j-m'h
                       kyns el-kran'u. Fungnu'h zyb-kai
                            zyb'nos rohz vuy-kh'yn.

                     I am that I am. Through the angles I
                     speak with the hornless ones,  and I
                     pledge anew the bond of the Daemons,
                     through whose will this world is come
                      to be. Let us speak the Bond of the
                                 Nine Angles.

CELEBRANT AND PARTICIPANTS:

                        I'a aemn'h urz'vuy-kin w'fren'j
                         El=aka gryenn'h. F'ung'hn-kai
                         zyb'nos rohz  vuy-kh'yn n'kye
                        w'ragh zh'sza hrn-nji qua-resvn
                         k'ng naagha zhem v'mhneg-alz.

                     Hail, father and lord of the angles,
                      master of the World of Horrors. We
                      speak the Bond of the  Nine Angles
                      to the honor of the  flutes of the
                    laughing one, the master of dimensions,
                      the hearld of the barrier, and the
                           Goat of a Thousand Young.

ALL:                   V'ty'h vuy-kn el-ukh'nar ci-wragh
                          zh'sza w'ragnh ks'zy d'syn.

                     From the First Angle is the infinite,
                     wherein the laughing one doth cry and
                    the flute wail unto the ending of time.


                       V'quy'h vuy-kn hrn-nji hyl zaan-i
                         vyk d'phron'h El-aka gryenn'h 
                             v'jnus-fyh whreng'n.

                      From the Second Angle is the master
                      who doth  order  the planes and the
                      angles,  and who hath conceived the
                      World of Horrors  in its terror and
                                    glory.


                      V'kresn vuy-kn k'nga d'phron'g kr-a 
                    El-aka gryenn'h p'nseb quer-hga phragn 
                     uk-khron ty'h-qu'kre vuy-kin'e rohz.

                    From the Third Angle is the messenger,
                     who hath created thy power to behold
                      the master of the World of Horrors,
                     who giveth to thee substance of being
                     and the knowledge of the Nine Angles.


                         V'huy vuy-kn zhem'nfi d'psy'h
                      dy-tr'gyu El-aka gryenn'h f'ungn-ei
                      si'n si-r'a s'alk d'hu'h-uye rohz.

                      From the Fourth Angle is the ram of
                    the Sun, who brought thy selves to be,
                    who endureth upon the World of Horrors
                    and proclaimeth the time that was, the
                   time that is, and the time that shall be;
                    and whose name is the brilliance of the
                                 Nine Angles.


                         V'cvye vuy-kn kh'ren-i kyl-d
                       zhem'n lyz-naa mnaa r'cvyev'y-kre
                      Z'j-m'h gryn-h'y d'yn'khe cyvaal'k
                                 h'y-cvy-rohz.

                     From the Fifth Angle are the hornless 
                    ones, who raise the temple of the five
                   trihedrons unto the Daemons of creation,
                    whose seal is at once four and five and
                                     nine.


                        V'quar'n vuy-kn fha'gn Z'j-m'h
                       ki-dyus dyn-jn'ash cvy-knu ukr'n
                                   hy-rohz.

                     From the Sixth Angle is the sleep of
                      the Daemons in symmetry, which doth
                    vanquish the five but shall not prevail
                         against the four of the nine.


                    V'try'v vuy-kn djn'sh dys-u n'fha'g-nir
                     Z'j-m'h r'n hy-kre'snvy'k kr'n-quar.

                      From the Seventh Angle is the ruin
                     of symmetry and the awakening of the
                      Daemons, for the four and the nine
                        shall prevail against the six.


                      V'nyr vuy-kn hrn-njir vu'a lyz-naa
                    mnaa r'nyrv'y Z'j-m'h gry-h'y d'yn-khe
                            cyvaal'k h'y-cvy-rohz.

                     From the Eighth Angle are the Masters
                     of the Realm, who raise the temple of
                     the eight trihedrons unto the Daemons
                    of creation, whose seal is at once four
                              and five and nine.


                        V'rohz vuy-kn i'inkh-v zy-d'syn
                      ur'bre-el hy'j whreng'n nakhreng'h
                             yh'whreng'n kyenn'h.

                     From the Ninth Angle is the flame of
                    the beginning and ending of dimensions,
                   which blazeth in brilliance and darkness
                           unto the glory of desire.


SHUB-NIGGURATH:          K'fung'n zyb'nos Z'j-m'h kyns
                                  el-gryn'hy.

                       I pledge the bond of the Daemons,
                      through whose will this world hath
                                  come to be.

CELEBRANT AND PARTICIPANTS:

                        Ki'q zyb'nos k'El-aka gryenn'h

                 We honor the bond upon the World of Horrors.

SHUB-NIGGURATH:               Ki-iq kyl-d zhem'n.

                          Hail to the hornless ones.

CELEBRANT AND PARTICIPANTS:

                       Ki-iq Sh'b-N'ygr'th aem'nh El-aka
                                   gryenn'h.

                     Hail to Shub-Niggurath, father of the
                               World of Horrors.

SHUB-NIGGURATH:                Zhar-v zy-d'syn.

                       Unto the beginning and the ending
                                of dimensions.
               
CELEBRANT:                     Zhar-v zy-d'syn.

                       Unto the beginning and the ending
                                of dimensions.
               

               [The Goat of a Thousand Young no longer appears.
                    The celebrant faces the participants.]

CELEBRANT:              Ty'h nzal's kra naaghs n'ghlasj
                        zsyn'e ty'h nzal's za'je oth'e
                       kyl-d zhem'n f'ungh'n. Nal Y'gs-
                         Othoth krell N'yra-l'yht-Otp.
                     I'a Y'gs-Othoth. I'a N'yra-l'yht-Otp.

                     The gaunts are loose upon the world,
                      and we shall not pass; but the time
                      shall come when the gaunts will bow
                      before us, and man shall speak with
                     the tongues of the hornless ones. The
                      way is Yog-Sothoth, and the key is
                    Nyarlathotep. Hail, Yog-Sothoth. Hail,
                                 Nyarlathotep.

PARTICIPANTS:        I'a Y'gs-Othoth. I'a N'yra-l'yht-Otp.
                                 I'a S'ha-t'n.



                                     -oOo-
