A SURVIVOR SPEAKS...

One  would expect that if laws are passed then the evidence  presented
to  the  law makers was hard stuff. You don't change the  law,  unless
there's a good reason, do you?

By "ANNE".

Testimony As Presented To The Idaho House Jud./Rules Committee,  Idaho
Centennial Legislature. From File 18 Newsletter, April 1990.

"Mr. Chairman, my name is Ann. I'm here as a ritual abuse survivor.  I
was  ritually abused between the ages of three and fourteen. It  began
on  my  third birthday when my parents and  grandparents  relinquished
their  rights to me and dedicated me to Satan. From that  point on   the
 high  priest  of the coven my father and grandfather  belonged  to
had  control  over my life. I still lived at home and went to  school,
yet  there was a part of my life no one knew about. That part consisted
of  sexual  abuse,  bestiality,  pornography, drugs,  and  witnessing
and  participating in animal and human sacrifices.

My  abuse occurred in both Idaho and Washington. The coven that  I   was
 involved  in  was  1 of 12 covens linked together  who  came  together
several times a year in Idaho. There were approximately 125-175 people
at these meetings.

The  most vivid memory I have of the rituals that occurred in Idaho   is
 one  when I was five years old. All twelve covens where [sic]  at  the
ritual. Some  covens wore black robes and some wore white. The  high
priests of these covens made up a thirteenth coven led by a man called
the  Supreme. The Supreme had ultimate control over every  member  of
every coven.

During the ritual I went through a series of tests including  drinking
blood  from the two girls they had sacrificed earlier,  repeating  the
rules correctly, and killing a kitten. At the end, I was chosen to  be
a  priestess for my coven provided I completed the training that  was
required.

Another ritual that is vivid to me also occurred in one of these   large
 gatherings  in Idaho. At the age of eight, I was married to  the  High
Priest  of my coven. They said we were "bonded together as  one."  The
ceremony  started with a cleansing process in which I was  covered  in
blood from the three people they had sacrificed that evening.  Secondly,
 vows were exchanged between the Supreme, the High Priest, and  myself.
These vows were in a different language that they used frequently that
I never understood. Thirdly, the Supreme cut my finger and the  finger
of the High Priest and the blood was mixed together. This was followed
by  communion  in which blood and flesh of the  sacrifices  was  used.
Lastly, the High Priest had intercourse with me on the altar. This was
supposed  to  seal the bond between us. This was not the only  time  I
went  through  this ceremony; I also went through it at  the  ages  of
eleven  and  fourteen. Each time there were  numerous  sacrifices  to
purify and cleanse me and the High priest, as the purer we were in the
eyes  of Satan, the stronger the bond was supposed to be, or so I  was
taught.

I watched many human sacrifices during the twelve years I was   involved
 in  the coven. Usually after a sacrifice various organs or body  parts
were  removed such as eyes, ears, fingers, the heart, or the  ovaries,
to name a few. On several occasions I witnessed them peel off the skin
of  both  live and dead victims. The high priest of the  coven  I  was
involved  in  also  scalped  the  hair  off  of  many  of  his  female
sacrifices. On one occasion I watched some sort of acid solution eat
the  flesh off a sacrificed teenage girl. There ere [sic]  also  times
when they used chainsaws to cut the bodies up into pieces.

I was forced time and time again to eat flesh and drink blood of  both
animal  and  human sacrifices. I was also forced to drink  urine,  eat
feces, and to eat bugs.

When  I  was five I was put into a coffin with a teenage  girl  I  had
watched  murdered during a ritual. They closed the coffin and told  me
they  were going to bury me with her. I also remember being placed  in
an  open  grave with a dead cow that had been  sacrificed. They  then
threw dirt and bloody flowers in on top of me.

I was given drugs after every ritual. I never remember going home. The
last  thing I can remember is being given an injection and trying  not
to  go to sleep as I did not know what was going to happen to me if  I
did. I believe this was to hinder my recollection of what I saw. I was
also given drugs when I was not cooperating. Sometimes I was forced to
swallow  pills or held down while the doctor gave me an  injection. I
learned  to  do whatever they wanted without fighting [because]  if  I
fought they gave me the drugs and I lost total control of my body  and
my mind as they broke my resistance. At least, without the drugs, even
if  I  [was]  forced to do awful things, in my heart  and  my  mind  I
resisted.

I was continually threatened that I would die or my parents would  die
or they would kill my sister if I didn't do what they wanted. I had no
doubt they would carry out their threats as during the large ritual in
Idaho  when I was eight, I watched them sacrifice a member of  one  of
their own covens to pay for the wrongs of his coven.

When I reached the point that I didn't care what happened to me,  they
began hurting other children when I did something wrong. They know  my
guilt over the pain was far worse punishment than hurting me would  be
at that point.

I  was  also warned that if I ever told anyone what I saw  they  would
kill me and/or the person I told. When I was seven I made friends with
a  new  girl at school. The High Priest would  come  occasionally  and
watch me on the playground at recess. He observed us together  several
times. One day she quit coming to school. The next time I saw her  she
was  in the hands of the coven. The High Priest accused me of  telling
her. I insisted that I did not say anything to her. He began  hitting
her for every time I denied his accusation. Finally, I told him I  did
tell her to get him to stop hitting her. Then, he killed her.

I'm  telling  you this because I want to increase your  knowledge  and
awareness  about what has been and is going on in our society. It  is
only  through  awareness that we are going to be able to  do  anything
about  ritual abuse. As Idaho Legislature, you have an opportunity  to
put  into  action laws that will require offenders to  pay  for  their
crimes against children.

In  conclusion, I want to tell you about someone who was very  special
to me. Her name was Jenny. She had beautiful long, blond hair and   blue
 eyes. I was six when I met her; she was fourteen. The first time I saw
her  she was lying naked on a bed with a chain attached to one of  her
legs. She had bruses all over her body and a black eye. She also  had
cuts all over her body.

Jenny and I spent time together on several occasions. They would  let
me  into  her room and then leave us unsupervised for  hours. Jenny's
story  was  classic. She ran away from home because of  physical  and
sexual abuse. She told me she was on her way to her grandmother's when
my grandfather picked her up. She did not realise where my grandfather
was  taking her and what was to happen to her until it was  too  late.
Jenny and I got into an argument about this the last time they let  us
send  [sic]  time  together. I  did  not  want  to  believe  that  my
grandfather  would have actually taken her  to that  awful  place.  But
Jenny insisted that he did. She had a one-line argument that I had  no
comeback  for: "If he brings you here, why wouldn't  he  bring  me
here?"

Jenny was real special. She talked about the ocean, seagulls, and  her
little  sister. She tried to teach me her phone number  to  call  her
parents  for her but it was an impossible task. At six I did  not   know
 how  to  use the phone and I did not know where we were  to  tell  her
parents where to come and find her.

The night they murdered Jenny in a ritual was probably the worst night
of  my life. They told me that I had chosen the night of her death  by
daring  to  ask my grandfather that afternoon if he was  the  one  who
brought  Jenny  to  the High Priest. My grandfather  admitted  to  the
above,  which increased my sense of guilt. My ears rang  with  Jenny's
crying  and screams as they tortured her that night. The hardest  part
of  Jenny's death for me to deal with was the fact that my hands  were
on  the  knife under the hands of the high priest when Jenny  died. I
tried to get them out but he was much stronger than me.

I  never mentioned Jenny to anyone until I told my therapist a  couple
of  years  ago. There were several ways the coven assured  my  silence
about  her. I was told and forced to repeat over and over that  I  was
the  one who killed Jenny. I was also told that if I told a  policeman
that  the  policeman would put me in jail because I was the  one  that
killed  her. They showed me what jail was like by locking me in a  box
and  pouring  her blood on top of me. I was told I had to be  good  or
they would tell the police and the police would put me in jail forever
and ever.

I don't want to mislead you, Jenny was not murdered in Idaho. Yet, she
could  have  been from Idaho...I don't know where she  was  from. But
there  were  several other children that I saw murdered in  Idaho  who
were just like Jenny. Ritual abuse is a serious crime. We need   serious
 laws with serious penalties to fight back and protect our children."

QUOTE ENDS

Editorial  Note: Not a very nice story. But is it credible, or  is  it
the  product  of  a mind that has been under psychiatric  care  for  a
number  of  years? According to Larry Jones, the editor  of  File  18,
"Annes"  story is being investigated by the police force with  primary
jurisdiction. Since the abusers were members of "Annes" extended  and
immediate family, one would expect a result on this one. Anyone  fancy
a bet that the investigation will come to nothing?

Emotionally   charged,  unverifiable,  stories  like  this   are   the
"anti-satanists" stock in trade. One trusts that the Knight  Committee
will  have no truck with with this kind of pseudo-evidence. But  then
one believes in fairies... 


