                 Dark Shadows (T.O.S.) Synopsis                                 
                                                                                
Format:  Due to the extreme number of episodes and plotlines this               
synopsis will not go into full detail.  Those aspects of the show which         
follow its supernatural nature will be concentrated on.  The Dark               
Shadows Companion has been a great help in creating this.  Any comments         
on something I have forgotten or left out will be greatly appreciated.          
Please forgive any spelling or punctuation problems.                            
                                                                                
Background:  Dark Shadows aired on June 27, 1966.  It was on the air            
through 1971 and comprised over 1200 episodes and two full length               
movies.  While on the air the series was continually at the mercy of the        
ratings.  As a result it constantly tested the bounds of what had been          
done before on tv and what was considered acceptable.                           
                                                                                
                       Episodes 1 - 300                                         
                                                                                
     Dark Shadows began with the arrival of Victoria Winters to the             
Collinwood estate; hired as the new governess for the Collins family.           
Having been raised as an orphan she is convinced that a key to her past         
lies with this family in Collinsport, Maine.  She soon finds that the           
Collins family is far from normal.  Her ward, David, is a constant              
trouble and has a developing interest in the occult.  For the first             
couple of months the plot centers around attacks on Victoria's life and         
the grudge between the Collins family and businessman Burke Devin.              
Things remain pretty much like any other soap.  Nothing happens out             
of the ordinary until episode 70.  With failing ratings Dan Curtis              
decides to go out with a bang.  While playing in the Old House David            
discovers Josette's portrait, and subsequently her ghost.  In addition,         
after being locked(by David) in the closed off section of Collinwood            
Vicki encounters the ghost of Mallory, a recently murdered character.           
The plot proceeds with the hunt for Mallory's killer and Vicki's past.          
The murderer, Matthew, takes Vicki captive and hides her in the Old             
House.  David is convinced by Mallory's ghost to help her.  Josette's           
ghost appears and protects Vicki when Matthew tries to kill her.  He            
soon dies from fright after being visited by Mallory's ghost.                   
     Now that the murder has been solved the plot shifts.  Laura                
Collins, Roger's wife and David's mother, has returned to Collinwood to         
get a divorce and custody of David.  This is bewildering to all, as             
Laura supposedly died in a fire in Phoenix, AR.  Even more so when it is        
discovered that her body was positively identified in the remains.  It          
is then revealed that Laura is a phoenix, but the family doesn't know           
this yet.  The Collins family gradually gather clues.  After tracing            
Laura's maiden names through women who appear to die every hundred years        
a pyschic investigator, Guthrie, is called in.  Guthrie discovers that          
Laura has some sort of powers but is unsure what she is.  He decides to         
conduct a seance to contact Josette and expose Laura.  Guthrie is killed        
by Laura.  The seance goes ahead as planned.  Laura makes her move to           
destroy David and herself in flames.  However, Vicki has been warned by         
Josette's ghost and she saves David.                                            
     Having survived more trials, Dark Shadows is again plagued by              
ratings problems.  The supernatural was called on again to save the             
show, this time with a vampire.  Willie Loomis, a drifter, had been             
introduced briefly already in the series.  Willie was fascinated with           
the portrain of Barnabas Collins and the legend about a secret family           
treasure.  While searching for the treasure in the family crypt he              
discovers a chained coffin, the perfect place to hide jewels.                   
Unfortunetly when he opens the lid a hand emerges, grasping Willie              
firmly about the neck.  Thus is introduced Barnabas Collins.                    
     Barnabas assumes the identity of a cousin from England and                 
"arrives" at Collinwood.  A weakened Willie is found at the Blue Whale,         
with puncture wounds on his wrists.  He is diagnosed as suffering from          
blood loss.  Barnabas gains permission to move into the Old House, with         
Willie as his servant.  Barnabas sees a resemblance in Maggie to his            
lost love Josette.  He devises a plan intended to recreat Josette.              
After several night meetings with Barnabas Maggie becomes weaker and is         
hospitalized.  Everyone thinks she dies, until her body disappears.             
She is in fact being held captive by Barnabas.  To protect himself,             
Barnabas switches the blood samples Dr. Woodard took from Willie.               
Maggie eventually escapes through the aid of Sarah, the ghost of                
Barnabas' nine-year-old sister.  Maggie suffers from a memory loss              
and has reverted to her childhood.  She is found by Sam and Joe and             
secretly sent to the Windcliff Sanitarium.  Her doctor there is Julia           
Hoffman.  Barnabas has now switched his intentions to Vicki, hosting            
a costume ball to get Vicki in Josette's dress.  At the party a seance          
is held and Vicki goes into a trance.  Josette speaks though her.               
     Meanwhile, Julie Hoffman has been probing into Maggie's mind.              
She finds, under hypnosis, that Maggie is deathly afraid of the name            
Barnabas.  Julia decides to go the Collinwood to find the answers,              
posing as a visiting historian.  While at the Old House she notices that        
Barnabas casts no reflection.  She returns to find Barnabas in his              
coffin and offers to help him find a cure.  Dr. Woodard and Burke start         
to become curious about Barnabas.  At the same time Sarah helps Maggie          
escape.  She stumbles into the Blue Whale and collapses.  Julia is then         
forced to hypnotize Maggie to cover her memory of Barnabas.  However,           
Barnabas has come to the conclusion Maggie must be killed.  When he             
attempts to do this he is stopped by Sarah's ghost.  Barnabas' plans            
are in  doubt when Vicki decides to marry Burke.  Therefore, Barnabas           
decides that Burke must be destroyed.                                           
                                                                                
                        Episodes 301 - 600                                      
                                                                                
     Anxious to be with Vicki/Josette Barnabas urges Julia to hurry with        
the cure.  Julia has however become highly enamoured of Barnabas.               
Meanwhile Burke continues to investigate Barnabas, to Vicki's                   
disapproval.  Sarah starts to show up often.  She shows David the secret        
room in the crypt and leaves her shoe in Maggie's room.  All attempts by        
Barnabas to talk to her prove fruitless.  He becomes afraid that she            
will expose him.  David is locked in the secret room when he hides there        
from Barnabas and Willie.  Barnabas knows Sarah talks to him and is             
afraid that he knows the truth.  Sarah helps David out of the room and          
Burke arrives before Barnabas can do anything.  David does, however,            
start to have nightmares about Barnabas.                                        
     With Maggie's memory returning she is once again a threat.  The            
police shoot an intruder outside her bedroom, only to discover it is            
Willie.  Barnabas has decided to frame him for Maggie's kidnapping.             
Dr. Woodard diagnoses Willie as mentally unsound.                               
     Barnabas has now switched to scare tactics with David.  However,           
the boy sneaks into the Old House and finds the open coffin.  Julia             
manages to stop Barnabas from killing him.  David's story has caused a          
search to be conducted of the Old House by Burke and Dr. Woodard, it            
turns up nothing.  Unfortunetly, Sarah has been talking to Dr. Woodard.         
He confronts Barnabas and later steals Julia's notebook, containing the         
specifics of Barnabas' condition.  Julia is forced by Barnabas to help          
kill Woodard.  The death is made to look like a heart attack.                   
     Vicki becomes distraught when she learns that Burke's plane has            
crashed without survivors.  Barnabas takes this opportunity to get              
closer to her.  However, Julia is jealous and hypnotizes Vicki so               
that she finds Barnabas very unattractive.  Growing impatient Barnabas          
forces Julia to hurry the cure.  As a result he ages to his true age of         
200 years.  Carolyn coming to check on David's story sneaks into the Old        
House.  The aged Barnabas catches her and puts the bite on her.  Which          
causes him to return to normal, and with a new slave.  Carolyn catches          
Julia hypnotizing Vicki and Barnabas is furious.  He swears to kill her.        
Julia saves her life by blackmailing Barnabas with her notebook, which          
she has given to Tony Peterson for safekeeping.  Carolyn attempts to            
steal it but is caught.  Barnabas starts to play mind games with Julia.         
Sarah visits her but will not help her.  Sarah tells Barnabas that he           
must be "good".  A seance is held to determine if David is telling the          
truth.  While it is going on Vicki dissappears.                                 
     Vicki has been transported to 1795.  She meets Barnabas before he          
became a vampire.  There is a striking resemblance between the old and          
new Collins families.  Jeremiah, Barnabas' uncle, agrees to help Vicki          
get hired as the new governess.  Josette's maid, Angelique, arrives.            
She has her own plans for Barnabas.  When his fiancess arrives(Josette)         
Angelique uses witchcraft to cause Barnabas to nearly choke to death.           
She then uses her witchcraft to turn the Collins servant, Ben Stokes,           
into her slave.  She casts a spell causing Jeremiah and Josette to fall         
in love.  Millicent Collins, a family heiress, arrives.  When Jeremiah          
trys to leave town, Angelique turns Barnabas' father Joshua into a cat.         
Natlie suspects there is a witch but believes it is Vicki.  She urges           
Barnabas to hurry with the wedding.  Before it can occur Jeremiah and           
Josette run off together.  Unfortunetly, it does not change Barnabas'           
mind.  Natalie and Joshua's sister Abagail find Vicki's charm bracelet          
and are convinced she is a witch.  Jeremiah and Josette return.                 
Barnabas challenges Jeremiah to a duel, which he wins by mortally               
wounding Jeremiah.  Abagail has meanwhile solicited the aid of Rev.             
Trask, a fanatic who supposedly reveals witchs.  Barnabas and Nathan            
hide Vicki in Collinwood, which is under construction.  Upset by events         
Angelique takes it out on Sarah.  She promises to cure her if Barnabas          
will marry her.  Jeremiah, who has been in a coma, dies.                        
     Barnabas now agrees to marry Angelique.  As an added incentive, she        
has enlisted the aid of Jeremiah's ghost.  Barnabas is disinheirited for        
his wedding plans, but is given the Old House as a wedding gift.  Vicki         
tells Barnabas she is from the future.  Ben is caught by Abagail and            
confesses his part.  Thinking Vicki is in the Old House Rev. Trask              
exorcises it.  Angelique causes Vicki to run out of hiding into the             
Rev's waiting arms.  She is put in jail.  Ben is forced by Barnabas to          
reveal Angelique.  Barnabas tries to kill her but she threatens to kill         
Josette.  When Barnabas shoots Angelique she believes she is dying and          
puts a curse on Barnabas.  A giant bat is sent to him.  When she doesnt         
die she regrets this and tries to save Barnabas.  Josette believes Vicki        
is the witch and emplores her to help Barnabas.  Unfortunetly,                  
Barnabas dies anyway.  Angelique does not want him to revive as a               
vampire so she goes to stake him.  He rises and kills Angelique.                
     Sarah sees Barnabas and follows.  When he finds his first victim           
she is terrified and runs away.  Ben later finds her in the cemetary.           
She has contracted pneumonia and dies in Barnabas' arms.  Feeling               
remorse Barnabas tells Ben to put a stake through his heart.  The spirit        
of Angelique returns and prevents this.  She then summons Josette and           
Barnabas nearly bites her.  In a short time he can no longer hold back          
and bites Josette, the subsequent strange behavior of Josette does not          
go unnoticed.  Joshua discovers that Barnabas' coffin is empty.                 
     To stop Barnabas' plans at having a vampire bride, Angelique calls         
Josette to Widow's Hill and causes her to fall to her doom.  The                
witchcraft trial of Vicki begins.  Barnabas decides to revive Josette           
but is shocked by her disfigured face.  She wishes to return to death.          
Barnabas moves his coffin to the Old House basement but is caught by            
Abagail, who dies from fright.  Vicki is accused of being responsible.          
     During Vicki's trial Ben trys to tell the truth, but Angelique             
shows up to testify.  Vicki is sentanced to hang.  Barnabas knows that          
Trask is responsible for this.  He kills a woman and puts her in Trask's        
bed.  He later forces Trask to write a declaration of Vicki's innocence.        
After which he bricks Trask up in the Old House basement to die.                
Meanwhile, Joshua has discovered Barnabas' coffin and decides he must           
destroy Barnabas.  Millicent is bitten by Barnabas.  Joshua brings in a         
good witch, Buthia Mapes, to help Barnabas.  Unfortunetly, she goes up          
in flames with a little help from Angelique.  Vicki escapes from jail           
but is wounded.  Nathan tells Naomi that Barnabas is a vampire.  She            
takes poison and dies as she tells Barnabas that she forgives him.              
When Barnabas finds out it was Nathan who told her he plans to kill him,        
and does.  Joshua finds he is unable to destroy Barnabas so he chains           
his son in the coffin to protect the Collins name.  Vicki is hung.              
Peter vows to someday find her.  When the hood is removed Vicki is gone,        
replaced by Phyllis With.  Vicki has returned to the present.                   
     Barnabas is now afraid that Vicki learnt of his condition in the           
past, so he bites her.  He is terrified to learn she has bought a               
portrait of Angelique.  Barnabas convinces Vicki to marry him.  Before          
this can happen though Vicki wrecks the car they are in, when she sees          
a Peter look alike.  In the hospital, Barnabas is exposed to sunlight           
and learns he is partially cured due to a blood transfution.  The               
hospital doctor, Lang, has an assistant who looks just like Peter               
Bradford, Jeff.  Vicki believes he is in some way Peter and calls off           
the wedding.  Dr. Lang plans to finish the cure and give Barnabas               
Jeff's physical features, by transferring him to a body made of human           
parts.  Roger arrives with a new bride, Cassandra.  It becomes obvious          
to Vicki that she is actually Angelique.  Angelique renews Barnabas'            
curse with a dream curse, passed on to whoever it is told to.                   
Cassandra kills Lang.  Julia plans to finish his experiment but when            
she does the results are not right.  Barnabas is still alive, but the           
creature comes to life, as Adam.  Adam gradually matures and learns to          
talk.  Barnabas has Sam age the portrait of Angelique, and Cassandra            
ages as well.  Cassandra has it stopped by blinding Sam.  Willie taunts         
Adam and he escapes.  After he trys to kill Barnabas, Barnabas decides          
to kill Adam.  Adam kidnaps Carolyn but is later captured.  He is put in        
jail but escapes.  He saves Carolyn from leaping off Widow's Hill, and          
then jumps himself.  He is not killed however.  Julia and several others        
hold a seance to contact Trask in the hopes he can stop Angelique. Trask        
is set on revenge with Barnabas however.  He holds a mock trial with            
Barnabas' 1795 victims and finds Barnabas guilty.  When Julia sees              
Josette's ghost she realizes what has happened to Barnabas.  He has been        
walled up in the Old House basement.  Julia and Willie save him.                
     Meanwhile the dream curse has ended, because Sam dies before he can        
relate it to anyone.  Trask is finally sucessful in exorcising                  
Angelique.  However, Warlord Nicholas Blair arrives, posing as                  
Cassandra's brother.  He searchs for her and eventually brings her              
back.  Cassandra raises Sam so that he can tell the dream to Vicki.             
Barnabas tries to help her by listening to the dream.  He survives it           
but is then attacked by a bat and is believed to be dead.  Julia                
discovers that Adam is alive and knows Barnabas is because of the link          
they have.  Stokes and Julia save Barnabas, who is still human.                 
     Nicholas learns that Julia brought Adam to life.  He befriends             
Adam.  When Cassandra tries to kill Adam, Nicholas is upset and takes           
her powers away.  Cassandra confeses to Barnabas but he refuses to              
forgive her.  Adam is upset that Carolyn doesnt like him and demands a          
mate for him be made.  Vicki decides to marry Jeff but Adam kidnaps her.        
Nicholas brings Angelique back as a vampire under his control.  When            
Adam starts to get testy, Julia agrees to make him a mate.  Tom is              
killed by Angelique, and returns as a vampire.  He attacks Julia who            
then stops the experiment.  Barnabas comes to the rescue and stakes Tom,        
although the coffin is later missing.  Willie tells Nicholas how Adam           
was made and Angelique overhears.  She bites Jeff and uses him to start         
the experiment, intending to resurrect herself.  Vicki calls off her            
wedding because of Jeff's strange behavior.  Barnabas manages to stop           
the experiment but is beaten around by Adam for it.  Maggie's memory            
of Barnabas starts to return.                                                   
     Carolyn now volunteers to be the lifeforce for the next                    
experiment and Julia begins.  However, something goes wrong and Carolyn         
dies, but the body disappears.  She later reappears in full health.             
Danielle Roge is summoned by Nicholas to serve as a life force for his          
own experiment.  As it happens she was a very nasty person from the 18th        
century.  Danielle's body, Adam, and the new Eve all disappear                  
afterwards.  Eve appears to tell Nicholas about her hatred for Adam.            
                                                                                
                          Episodes 601 - 900                                    
                                                                                
     Barnabas plans to kill Eve, so Adam hides her in Nicholas'                 
basement.  When Barnabas goes there he finds Angelique waiting.  He is          
bitten by her and is put under her spell.  However, Nicholas forbids her        
from seeing Barnabas without his permission.  Joe is rejected by                
Angelique and tries to kill himself.  When Barnabas takes him to Julia          
they discover bite marks on his neck.  Nicholas sends Eve on a trip to          
the past to meet Peter Bradford, who she is in love with via Jeff.              
Unfortunetly, Peter does not feel the same way.  Nicholas proposes to           
Maggie but is turned down.  Barnabas is ordered to poison Joe by                
Angelique.  Joe in turn tries to strangle Barnabas.  Julia discovers            
that Peter has been bitten and tries to lock him up, but he escapes.            
Angelique tries to run off with Barnabas, but he escapes and is found by        
Vicki.  It appears that Angelique has been getting around when Julia            
finds that Adam too has been bitten.  Nicholas decides to destroy               
Angelique, but he cannot find her, the coffin is empty.  It appears that        
Angelique got wise and moved it.  She sends Eve back in time to 1796 to         
find Peter.  Peter is in jail, waiting to be hung.  He refuses aid from         
Eve but gives her a note just before he dies.  Eve returns and gives the        
note to Jeff, who then calls off the wedding with Vicki and goes to             
Peter's grave.  When he digs it up he finds it empty.  Adam kills Eve.          
Chris Jennings arives, mistaken by some for his brother Tom.                    
Angelique takes a field trip to the Netherworld to discuss some things          
with Diablos (aka Satan).  She tells him of Nicholas' love for Maggie.          
Subsequently, Diablos orders Nicholas to sacrifice Maggie in a Black            
Mass.  Vicki learns of these plans so Nicholas calls up Tom Jennings to         
stop her.  He is destroyed by Barnabas.                                         
     Adam tries to revive Eve but is stopped by Barnabas.  Around               
this time Nicholas is believed destroyed by a fireball.  Adam kidnaps           
Vicki in order to try once more at the experiment, but he fails.  Jeff          
discovers that he is indead Peter Bradford.  Jeff and Vicki are married         
but Jeff fades back to the past.  Amy, Chris' sister, moves into                
Collinwood.  David shows her a phone (disconnected) where she talks to          
Quentin Collins.  David and Amy then hold a seance to contact Quentin.          
Meanwhile, another seance is held so that Vicki can contact Jeff.  David        
and Amy are possesed by the ghosts of Quentin and Beth Chavey.  They            
then try to kill Roger.  As a result, a pyschic medium, Janet Findley,          
is brought in to investigate.  Unfortunetly, the children trap her and          
she dies of fright when Quentin pays a visit to her.  Jeff stops by the         
present one more time and takes Vicki to the past with him (in reality          
the actress was pregnant).  Maggie takes over as governess.                     
     Following several shadowy appearances, Chris transforms into a             
werewolf and attacks Joe.  With many strange things occuring Barnabas           
decides to take the children to Boston for awhile, for safety.  Joe             
starts having vampire and werewolf dreams and is put in Windcliff               
Sanitarium.  There is evidence that Vicki wants to return to the present        
and that she dies in the past.  Barnabas decides to time travel to save         
her.  Angelique offers to help in the past, but changes her mind.  Vicki        
is saved when Barnabas torches Angelique.  Barnabas has himself chained         
up in his coffin and is revived in the present by Julia and Willie.             
     All this while Liz was believed to be dead.  Actually she was              
paralyzed in her coffin (actually the actress was doing a play).  After         
she senses Carolyn is in danger, attacked by the werewolf, she revives.         
One of Carolyn's friends visits Chris and is killed by the werewolf.            
Chris is jailed for the murder, but is released when Barnabas provides          
an alibi.  Chris confides in Barnabas.  The ghost of Quentin recognizes         
Chris as his descendant and tries to poison him.  David is punished by          
Maggie and gets very upset, he vows revenge.  When Barnabas finds a             
child's coffin with a pentagram in it he calls in Ezra Raithwaite for           
assistance.  Ezra realizes who Quentin is but dies of fright.  Chris is         
protected on the next full moon by Barnabas.  David is punished for not         
following Quentin's orders.  Quentin starts to be a very annoying ghost         
and the family abandons Collinwood.  David sneaks back in and ends up in        
a coma.  Barnabas attempts an I Ching trance, to contact Quentin, but           
ends up in 1897.                                                                
    Barnabas uses the same line of being a cousin from England, but             
Quentin is suspicious.  Quentin has been trying to get his grandmother,         
Edith, to reveal the family secret.  She realizes that Barnabas is the          
secret.  Edith dies and Quentin has her will stolen.  Barnabas finds            
another Josette look alike in Rachel.  Quentin and Evan Hanley hold a           
ritual in order to obtain aid in dealing with Barnabas.  They get               
Angelique.  She puts Rachel under a spell and Barnabas must then get a          
amulet from the gypsy Magda to protect her.  Everyone is shocked when           
they learn Judith, the house mistress, is Edith's only benificiary.             
     Previously Quentin had married Jenny, but his eyes roamed.  He ran         
off with his brother's wife, Laura.  Leaving his pregnant wife at home.         
She has twins, a son and a daughter.  Since Jenny is considered to be           
insane the children are taken away and Jenny is locked in the tower             
room.  Quentin returned later.                                                  
     Now Jenny escapes and attacks Rachel.  Judith tries to hide Jenny,         
but she escapes whe she hears Quentin's music.  Jenny stabs Quentin and         
leaves him to die.  Angelique is summoned by Barnabas to help.  He is           
resurrected as a zombie, possesing Jamison.  When he starts misbehaving         
a ceremony is performed to try and bring things back to normal (or              
Collinwood's equivilent).  Rev. Gregory Trask attempts to exorcise              
Quentin from Jamison's body.  When things work out, Trask thinks he is          
responsible.  Barnabas bites his daughter Charity.  Laura Collins now           
returns to Collinwood.  Much to Quentin's anger, since he saw he burnt          
on a pyre in Egypt (the phoenix returns).  He tries to kill her and is          
injured.  Angelique offers to help, but only if Barnabas marries her.           
Laura is warned by Rachel about her children's treatment at Rev Trask's         
school.  When he refuses to return the children to her the school               
catches fire.                                                                   
     Quentin tries to destroy Laura's source of supernatural power.             
Laura calls on the god Ra for aid.  Clues gather for the rest of the            
family about Laura's true nature.  She admits to returning for the              
children.  It has decided by Quentin and Barnabas that they must destroy        
Laura.  However, she has already sent Jenny to stop them.  During a             
struggle, Quentin kills Jenny.                                                  
     It turns out the Jenny was the daughter of Magda, a gypsy witch.           
She places the werewolf curse on Quentin and his descendants.  Not              
realizing that she had grandchildren by him, who are also cursed now.           
     A character names Dirk, who works for Laura, finds a diary in the          
grave of Ben Stokes.  Laura learns from it that Barnabas is a vampire           
and plans to destroy him.  Quentin attempts another ceremony intended to        
destroy Laura.  Ra is again called on by Laura in order to destry               
Angelique.  Laura has written a letter to Judith describing Barnabas'           
condition.  Barnabas manages to destroy it after attacking Dirk.  Laura         
attempts to take the children into the fire with her, but she is                
destroyed by a spell Angeliques casts.                                          
     Quentin now devotes his time to the werewolf curse.  When Barnabas         
cannot get any straight answers he bites Beth, she becomes his slave.           
Barnabas is told by Magda about a possible cure for Quentin, but                
Barnabas has his own problems.  When Dirk reveals his secret Barnabas           
attacks him, he later rises as a vampire.  Dirk tries to get Barnabas           
to bring Angelique back to life, but then Edward stakes Dirk.                   
     Enter Count Petofi.  A powerful, yet eccentric, sorcerer.  Petofi          
had suffered as a werewolf and had killed the last unicorn in grief.            
In addition, for killing one of them, the gypsies severed his hand,             
where his power was centered.  It now travels the earth in its own              
box.  Magda returns afer a long trip with a mysterious, bearing the box.        
     Carl sees Barnabas enter the masoleum and is trapped there by              
Quentin.  Barnabas rises and kills him Carl.  Barnabas later finds his          
coffin chained up and with a cross on it.  Trask is now on Barnabas'            
trail and attempts to use Charity to trap him.  Trask marries Judith and        
reveals to her Barnabas' secret.  Magda uses the hand of Petofi in an           
attempt to cure Quentin.  However, the werewolf is caught in an animal          
trap and the hand stolen by Evan.  Judith has now come to the opinion           
that she is Minerva, Trask's recently deceased wife.  Minerva's ghost is        
raised by Trask and Evan.  Judith is "persuaded" to commit herself.             
Aristede, a new character addition, forces Quentin to relinquish the            
hand to him.  Quentin then goes to Angelique for help.  Unfortunetly,           
Angelique attempts a cure but fails.  A gypsy, Julianha?, persuades             
Barnabas that she can cure Quentin, if the hand is returned to the              
gypsies.  Aristede captures Quentin and threatens his life if he doesnt         
give Aristede the hand.  Julianha is found dead.  When she is contacted         
through a seance she refuses to help Quentin and curses Magda.  When            
Magda's loved ones start to die she tries to destroy the hand.                  
     A new character appears, Victor Fenn-Gillons.  Magda and Quentin           
soon discover that he is in fact Count Petofi, come for his hand.               
Petofi devises a cure for Quentin.  Charles Delaware Tate arrives to            
paint Quentin's portrait.  He has been given a power by Petofi.                 
Instead of Quentin turning into a wolf his portrait does, it also gives         
the effect of immortality.  Through a few plot manipulations Petofi is          
reunited with his hand.  Count Petofi tries to extort the secret of time        
travel from Barnabas.  He chains Barnabas in his coffin.  Quentin               
manages to release Barnabas.  Magda is placed on trial by the gypsies.          
Quentin now appears to be fully cured, but Petofi has made a deal with          
Edward to trap Barnabas.                                                        
     Back in the present, Beth's ghost appears and explains to Julia how        
Quentin dies.  Julia travels back to 1897.  Julia agrees to stay and            
cure Barnabas, but she is taken hostage by Petofi who wants the I Ching         
wands used in time travel.  Barnabas manages to rescue her.  He and             
Angelique make a deal to destroy Petofi.  Lady Kitty Soames arrives,            
and suprise, she looks just like Josette.  Before this can be expanded          
on, Barnabas is staked by a posessed Charity.  His coffin is sealed in a        
cave.  Petofi discovers that he needs a body in the future to time              
travel, so he begin manipulations to posess Quentin.  Julia is called           
back to the present.  Angelique is warned about the mind switch.                
     Now it is revealed that Barnabas was not killed (he actually took          
a vacation).  It was only a double created by Angelique.  In fact, he is        
human again (Julia's cure worked).  Kitty is becoming aware that she is         
Josette and goes to Barnabas.  Angelique is forced to tell Petofi how           
she created the double.  Petofi attempts to time travel but is called           
back.  Quentin manages to reverse the mind switch and orders Aristede           
to kill Petofi.  Judith has returned, fairly sane, with the knowledge           
that Trask is after the family wealth.  She has him bricked up in               
Quentin's room.  Though the effects of several sub plots, Petofi is             
destroyed in the burning studio of Tate.  Kitty fades into the past and         
Barnabas does likewise.  Josette believes that he has betrayed her and          
kills herself.                                                                  
     Barnabas is captured by the Leviathans.  A Lovecraftian race of            
ancient beings.  Barnabas is returned to the present with the task of           
finding a suitable couple to raise a Leviathan child.  There are two            
new inhabitants of Collinsport, Philip and Megan Todd.  They run a local        
antique shop.  Megan is given the box containing the essence of the             
Leviathan leader and the Leviathan comes to live with them.  Paul               
Stoddard now appears, Carolyn's father.  The book on the Leviathans is          
stolen by David.  Paul realizes that the Leviathan's want Carolyn, due          
to a deal he had made with them years ago.                                      
                                                                                
                        Episodes 901 - 1245                                     
                                                                                
     Evidence of the Leviathan child comes when Carolyn hears loud, and         
strange breathing coming from the baby's room.  Due to his sucess before        
in the series, Quentin is brought back.  While taking a drive Barnabas          
hits a man who mysteriously looks just like Quentin.  The man claims to         
be Grant Douglas, but Julia believes him to be Quentin.  Meanwhile the          
Leviathan child has aged rapidly into a little boy, and is introduced           
as Alexander.  The Leviathan's gain control of Liz and Paul realizes who        
Alexander is.  Julis attempts to restore Grant's memory as Quentin, but         
to no avail.  Julia discovers that Harrison Monroe is in fact Charles           
Delaware Tate.  Alexander ages further and is now introduced as Michael.        
Barnabas is ordered by the Leviathans to kill Julia, but tries to bring         
her into the group instead.  Paul escapes from Collinwood and goes to           
the police.  Chris goes to Tate in the hopes that he can cure him by            
painting his portrait.  Olivia Corey reveals that she is actually Amanda        
Harris and tells of a pact she made in 1897.  In order to survive she           
must get Quentin to remember.  Julia discovers that Angelique is back.          
She is married to Sky Rumson and wants nothing to do with the Collins           
anymore.                                                                        
     Michael traps Maggie in a secret passage and orders Megan to kill          
Philip, but Barnabas stops her.  Michael is ready to transform into the         
next stage but he is having second thoughts.  Barnabas decides to help          
Paul and saves him when he is attacked.  When Julia shows Quentin his           
1897 portrait his memory returns.  It was gone due to damage to the             
portrait.  Amanda and Quentin try to escape the mysterious Mr. Best but         
their plans go awry and Amanda is buried alive.  The sheriff                    
investigates the antique shop but only finds Jeb Hawkes, the fully grown        
Leviathan child.  Jeb believes it is Barnabas who has betrayed him.             
     Julia realizes who Jeb is and confronts Barnabas.  To Barnabas'            
rage Jeb proposes to Carolyn.  Barnabas then goes to Angelique and begs         
her for help.  Jeb hides Maggie in a crypt, with Sheriff Davenport (who         
he has raised from the dead).  A Leviathan follower arrives in town,            
Bruno.  Sabrina attempts to cure Chris with a special flower.  As it            
turns out the only thing which can harm a Leviathan is a werewolf.  Jeb         
gets edgy when he finds out there is one near.  Bruno tells Jeb that            
Sabrina can identify the werewolf.  Jeb's true nature is revealed to            
Carolyn in a dream.  The werewolf attacks, but doesnt kill, Jeb.                
Barnabas prevents Jeb from learning who the werewolf is and conducts a          
seance to contact Josette.  Philip attempts to steal the Leviathan box,         
but is caught by Jeb.  Due to Barnabas' treason against the Leviathans,         
Jeb decides to punish him.  Barnabas is bitten by a vampire bat, a              
becomes once more a vampire.  As revenge, Barnabas sets fire to the             
antique shop.  Julia agrees to try and cure him again.  Nicholas Blair          
returns to town to help the Leviathans, whose plans seem to be going            
wrong.  Barnabas makes Megan his servant.  Angelique discovers that her         
husband is a Leviathan.  Quentin saves Maggie from Barnabas.                    
     Without a husband, and just a little bit peeved, Angelique returns         
her sights to Barnabas.  She casts a spell causing Quentin and Maggie to        
fall in love.  Jeb decides he actually loves Carolyn and renounces his          
Leviathan ties.  Because of this Blair punished him with a shadow which         
follows him everywhere, growing larger.  A hanging man is seen in               
David's room.  Bruno learns that Chris is the werewolf and orders               
Davenport to destroy him during the next full moon.  He changes his mind        
and decides to get in good with the Leviathans by destroying Jeb.  He           
tricks Jeb into getting trapped with Chris just before the full moon.           
Megan is attacked by Barnabas.                                                  
     Jeb learns that Julia cured Barnabas once and has her kidnapped            
by an army of zombies, in the hopes that she can make him human.                
Nicholas warns Julia not to interfere.  Zombies bury Quentin alive.             
Carolyn has a dream and learns that Jeb killed her father.  Peter               
Bradford's ghost appears and threatens to destroy Jeb.  Philip falls            
off Widow's Hill to his death.  Angelique vows to destroy Jeb.  Carolyn         
and Jeb are married.                                                            
     With failing ratings a new twist to time travel is tried, this             
time sideways in time.  Barnabas discovers a room in the closed off east        
wing which looks into a parallel universe.  Julia informs Barnabas of           
Stokes' theory of parallel time.  Carolyn learns about the shadow which         
is stalking Jeb.  To protect Chris, Sabrina tries to kill Bruno.  Bruno         
takes her hostage and sets a trap for Carolyn, trapping her with the            
werewolf.  Angelique finally agrees to help Jeb, if he kills Nicholas.          
The shadow curse is transferred to Nicholas and he is killed by it.             
Sky vows revenge and pushes Jeb off Widows Hill, unfortunetly he was            
human enough to die.  Barnabas observes the paralled universe for a time        
and decides to enter, in the hopes that he will be cured of vampirism.          
     In the parallel universe things are different.  Julia is a                 
housekeeper in league with Angelique and Barnabas never became a                
vampire.  When he enters he is still a vampire though and attacks Willie        
Loomis' wife Carolyn.  Willie, who is an author (of the history of              
Barnabas Collins no less), traps Barnabas and learns everything.  He            
chains Barnabas in a coffin.  The newlyweds Quentin and Maggie return           
to Collinwood.  Quentins first wife, Angelique, is dead and his son is          
David.  David decides to drive Maggie away, he believes his mother is           
going to return.  Angelique's twin sister Alexis arrives.  Scientist            
Cyrus Longworth is experimenting with the good and evil sides of people.        
Maggie leaves Collinwood out of jealousy of Alexis.  Bruno thinks Alexis        
is Angelique and tries to dig up her grave but is stopped by Quentin.           
Cyrus tests his formula with Jeckyll/Hyde effects.  A seance is held to         
contact Angelique.  As a result Sabrina believes Angelique was                  
murdered.  Hannah Stokes informs Bruno that Angelique's spirit is at            
Collinwood.  Quentin and Alexis come to the opinion that Angelique              
isn't at rest.  Collinwood is haunted by the ghost of Damion Edwards.           
Under the influence of his potion, Cyrus becomes John Yaeger and flirts         
heavily with Buffie Harrington, the Blue Whale barmaid.  Bruno tries to         
kill Alexis, believing she is Angelique.                                        
     Angelique comes to life and kills Alexis, taking her place.                
Damion's ghost warns Quentin he'll die by hanging.  Angelique tries to          
get tid of Damion's ghost.  Gladstone finds out about Cyrus/Yaeger and          
blackmails him.  Daniel becomes mesmerized by Barnabas' portrait.               
Joshua Collins spirit warns there is an evil spirit at Collinwood.              
Yaeger discovers a passageway to the Old House basement and finds               
Barnabas' coffin.  Will stops him from opening it but is bitten by              
Barnabas, who "arrives" posing as an English cousin.  Quentin is                
suspicious of him.  Angelique reveals to Hoffman who she is and performs        
voodoo on Quentin.  Angelique brings Maggie back to Collinwood hoping to        
disolve her marriage with Quentin.  Angelique kills lawyer Larry Chase,         
using his body heat to survive.  Buffie is bitten by Barnabas and become        
becomes his spy.  Maggie is driven to suicide but Liz stops her from            
killing herself.  Barnabas confronts Angelique.  She goes to her father         
Timothy Stokes for help.  Yaeger kidnaps Maggie.                                
     Barnabas returns briefly to normal time.  He talks to Julia then           
returns to parallel time to save Maggie.  Yaeger kills Sabrina and              
tries to kill Maggie but Barnabas saves her, killing Yaeger/Cyrus in the        
process.  Julia arrives just in time to stop Hoffman from staking               
Barnabas.  She kills Hoffman and takes her place.  Julia discovers how          
Angelique is staying alive.  Barnabas and Julia find Stokes secret lab.         
Quentin is framed for Angelique's and Bruno's deaths.  Angelique panics         
when Barnabas takes a life force from the secret lab.  Angelique tries          
to get Barnabas' secret out of Will, but he jumps from the tower room to        
his death.  Barnabas manages to partially revive the life force (aka            
Roxanne Drew).  After various events Angelique finds out who Julia is.          
Roxanne comes fully to life, killing Angelique as a result.  Barnabas           
bites Roxanne and later rescues Julia.  However, Roxanne dies.                  
Barnabas is distraught over Roxanne's death.  Collinwood is set on fire         
by Stokes.  Julia and Barnabas return to normal time, but the year 1995.        
They find Collinwood deserted.  Carolyn is insane and living in a beach         
shack.  She is convinced that the family will return.  The sheriff warns        
Barnabas and Julia to leave.                                                    
Barnabas and Julia see Davids ghost.  They are warned of danger by              
Quentin.  Gerard's ghost appears to Quentin and Julia.  Quentin believes        
Prof. Stokes is responsible for Collinwood's disaster.  Barnabas finds          
out Carolyn is dead and discovers her description of the destruction of         
Collinwood.  The sheriff is killed by Barnabas.  Julia and Barnabas             
manage to return to the present by using a stairway through time.  It           
is learned the Daphne (who appeared as a ghost in the future) was the           
1840 governess.  Her and Gerard's graves are found.  Liz consults an            
astrologer after learning about the future.  Stokes niece, Hallie, is           
found dressed in 19th century clothing.  A west wing playroom is                
discovered by David and Hallie.  Daphne's ghost appears to Quentin and          
he discovers her diary.  Daphne tries to kill Quentin but he convinces          
her not to.  The spirit of Tad Collins speaks through David.  Barnabas          
meets Roxanne Drew, who is identical to the parallel time Roxanne.              
A dollhouse is found by David and Hallie.  The dolls look like them in          
19th century clothes.  They destroy the dolls but discover them back in         
the dollhouse.  Their 1840 counterparts are seen in the playroom.  It is        
learned that the stairway used by Julia and Barnabas was made by                
Quentin.  David and Hallie's 1840 counterparts motion them toward the           
staircase but it disappears.  Gerard's ghost menaces David.  Liz is             
warned by Sebastion that the stranger in her future may not be alive.           
Gerard possesses Liz and appears to David and Hallie.  Maggie colapses          
and Julia discovers bite marks on her neck.  Barnabas convinces her that        
he was not responsible.  Julia prepares to give Maggie a blood                  
transfusion.  After Carolyn sees Gerard she is possessed by Letricia            
Faye.  Barnabas and Julia decide they must get David and Hallie out of          
Collinwood.  However, Gerard leads David to the real Rose Cottage(aka           
the dollhouse).  David and Hallie are possessed by Tad and Carrie.  They        
conduct a ceremony to bring Daphne and Gerard back to life.  The newly          
risen Daphne talks to Quentin.  She refuses to help Gerard come back so         
he sets fire to the Cottage with her in it.  Carolyn (aka Letricia)             
stops him.  Julia finds that Daphne is alive.  Barnabas confronts               
Gerard.  Willie discovers Maggie next to an empty coffin.  The other            
vampire is Roxanne.  Barnabas stops Sebastion from killing her and              
chains her in the coffin.  Maggie is taken to Windcliffe.  Sebastian            
announces Gerard will take control of Collinwood.  Gerard kills the             
children.  Julia travels back in time to 1840 by using the stairway.            
     Julia hides from the current inhabitants.  She is saved from an            
insane Daniel Collins by Ben.  Ben and Julia set Barnabas free, but             
he doesn't recognize her.  Julia poses as Barnabas Collins sister from          
England.  Barnabas and Roxanne decide to spend eternity together.               
Julia tries to stop him and Barnabas attacks her.  The 1970 Barnabas            
possesses his 1840 body and saves her.  Daniel gives Barnabas the Old           
House.  Ben is shown the mystical head of Judah Zachery.  Judah's               
powers kill Ben.  The head also affects Desmond.  Samantha is surprised         
when her dead husband Quentin arrives.  He tells her that Tad is also           
alive.  Daphne meets Quentin and decides that he is the man she is              
going to kill.  Lamar Trask uses Letricia's powers to discover  what            
happened to his father, the Rev Trask.  Desmond discovers the vault             
containing the body of Judah.  Lamar's father warns of evil.  Judah's           
escapes and kills Tim Blaikwater.  Samantha tells Quentin that Tad is           
not his son and that she will stay married to Gerard.  Julia tries to           
warn Daphne.  Angelique discovers that Barnabas is free.  Julia and             
Letricia try to rejoin Judah's head.  Angelique warns Barnabas                  
that she will turn Roxanne into a vampire.  The jeweled mask of Judah           
is needed to reunite the head and body.  The mask is found and the body         
revived but in a coma.  A fire burns the body but the head lives.               
Angelique remembers Judah's original threats of revenge in 1692.  Gerard        
hides Judah's head.  With Charles Dawson's help Judah possesses                 
Gerard.  Barnabas meets Roxannes's brother.  Angelique hides Julia in a         
abandoned lighthouse.  Quentin reveals to Gerard his time travel                
therories.  Gerard (aka Judah) trys to bring Edith and Daphne into the          
coven.  Daphne admits she is the sister of Joanne.  Barnabas rescues            
Julie and Roxanne rises as a vampire.  Quentin is accused of being a            
warlock.  Randall is killed after finding Judah's mask.  Quentin is             
arrested for the murder.  Gerard and Charles talk David into changing           
his will.  Gerard convinces Angelique that Judah had possessed Quentine.        
David suffers a stroke and dies.  His sole beneficiary is Gerard.  The          
constable's wife dies in Quentin's cell and he is now on trial for              
witchcraft.  Samantha testifies that Quentin brought a spirit to                
Collinwood.  Ben's diary is found and subsequently Trask's skeleton.            
Lamar bricks up Barnabas in the basement.  Angelique realizes that              
Gerard may be Judah.  Desmond is arrested and admits to having Judah's          
head.  Prof. Stokes arrives from the future with information.  Barnabas         
shows up mysteriously as Quentin's lawyer.  Gerard has Mordenia Grimes          
killed to prevent testimony for Quentin.  Daphne sees paralled time in          
the east wing.  Quentin is convicted but he and Desmond escape.  Daniels        
ghost kille Gabriel.  Quentin and Daphne are trapped in the paralle time        
room but escape.  Joanna forces Samantha off Widows' Hill.  Daphne is           
put under a spell and marries Gerard.  Quentin is sent back to jail and         
Barnabas goes to Angelique for help.  Gerard takes away Angelique's             
powers.  But she still stops the execution by arriving with Judah's             
head, freeing Gerard.  Lamar shoots Angelique and she dies in Barnabas'         
arms.  Julia and Barnabas return to the present to find everything back         
to normal, history had been changed.                                            
    That ends the normal storyline and characters for Dark Shadows.  The        
last plotline took place in the paralled time of 1841.  Bramwell Collins        
(played by Jonathan Frid) tries to convince Catherive to marry him              
instead of Morgan Collins.  Before Justin Collins dies he gives Morgan          
a letter describing the curse on the family.  Morgan is put in charge of        
the lottery.  A drawing to determine which of the family is to spend the        
night in the cursed room.  If they come out sane the curse is broken.           
Bramwell abducts Catherine.  It is discovered Melanie Collins has a             
mental disorder.  She discovers Stella Young being held captive in the          
tower room, but Stella is stabbed and dies.  With a memory loss Melanie         
is not for sure if maybe she killed Stella.  Morgan and Catherine               
prepare to marry.  Bramwell loses his duel with Morgan, wounded in the          
process (he didnt fire his gun).  Gerard Stiles and Kendrick Young find         
the secret grave of Stella.  The family is warned during a seance that          
the lottery must take place.  Melanie gets the plague.  Gabriel Collins         
is chosen to stay in the room but escapes from Collinwood.  Quentin             
comes down with the plague.  Morgan returns Gabriel and he spends the           
night in the room.  The next morning Morgan discovers a villagers dead          
body in the room in place of Gabriel.  Justin's spirit warns the curse          
isn't over.  Having gone insane in the room Gabriel attacks Kendrick.           
Bramwell tries to marry Catherine's sister Daphne but Catherine trys to         
stop them, to no avail.  Catherine is pregnant with Bramwell's child.           
Catherine gets the next turn in the room but Morgan takes her place.  He        
comes out insane, possessed by James Forsythe, the man who placed the           
curse on the family.  The ghost of Brutus Collins haunts Morgan.                
Kendrick discovers Melanie has a split personality.  Catherine admits           
she loves Bramwell and Daphne becomes suicidal.  Julia is saved from            
Morgan by Quentin.  Forsythe's spirit reveals why he cursed the family.         
Daphne gets an undiagnosable illness.  Brutis ghost traps Morgan and            
Julia in a secret corridor with two bodies.  Morgan kills Gabriel.              
Josette Collins, Bramwell's mother, reveals to Melanie that she and             
Barnabas are her parents.  Daphne dies.  Melanie marries Kendrick but           
goes insane.  The lottery is held again and Kendrick draws the slip.            
Morgan learns Catherine is pregnant.  He traps Bramwell in the room and         
adds Catherine when he finds out the child is Bramwell's.  She is               
temporarily possessed by Amanda Forsythe.  Bramwell and Catherine banish        
the Brutus' ghost and break the curse.  Morgan wounds Bramwell and tries        
to kill Catherine but Kendrick stops him.  Melanie recovers.                    
     Two bite marks are found on Melanie's neck.  Ben comments there may        
be a vampire around.  However, the final voice over reveals that it was         
merely a wild animal loss on the estate.  So ends the original Dark             
Shadows series.                                                                 
