                            ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                            ³ WHAT IS SATANISM? ³
                            ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
                            1. FAQ Usenet Alt.SATANISM
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

1.   What is Satanism?

     At first glance this may look like a simple question to answer:  "Go
     look it up in the dictionary." would seem to be straightforward
     enough.  In fact, I'll do it for you:

          Satanism, n.  1.  the worship of Satan or the powers of
          evil.  2.  a travesty of Christian rites in which Satan
          is worshipped.  3.  diabolical or satanic disposition,
          behavior, or actions.

     [from _Webster's Encyclopedic Unabridged Dictionary of the English
     Language_, (c) 1989]

     Unfortunately it's not that easy.  There is no one set of beliefs that
     comprise Satanism.  Because there is no set of doctrines or scriptures
     agreed upon by a majority of Satanists, would-be practitioners must
     define their beliefs for themselves, based upon a minimum of shared
     information.  The issue is further confused by the fact that,
     historically, most records of real or imagined Satanism have been made
     by Satanists' traditional enemies, Christians.  However a few
     generalizations can be made:  the average Satanist disagrees with much
     of Christianity, believes in no absolute moral code, and places
     emphasis on the individual and personal rights.  If you think this
     sounds like Libertarianism, you're right; many Satanists consider
     themselves Libertarians or feel close to the party on social issues.

     There are several divisions one could make as to the belief systems of
     various "Satanic" groups. This (arbitrary) division is made more to 
     outline some belief systems than to categorize groups. Most defy 
     categorization. The Process Church, for example, is surely a gnostic 
     group, but neither of the two listed fit the Process very well.

          1.  The Dabblers:  adopt Satanic trappings for a brief
          period of time, usually for entertainment rather than
          serious purposes. Many modern youths fall into this category.

          2. Churches of Satan: are patterned after the teachings of
          Anton LaVey. These groups believe in individualism, gratification
          of the ego, self-reliance and the ideal of the Neitzchean Superman.
          These groups use Magick as a tool for earthly power. They see
          Satan as the driving force behind achievment in mankind. 
          The two main organizations in this category are Anton LaVey's
          Church of Satan and Michael Aquino's Temple of Set. The two groups
          differ philosophically and organizationally.

          3. Gnostics: can be divided into two major categories 
          3a. Promethian Gnostics: Believe in a literal "Satan", but believe 
          that the creator of the world (Jehovah) is the evil deity. Satan is
          seen as the "bringer of light"; a beneficient god. This is an old
          "heresy" seen in groups such as the Yezidis.
          3b.  Dark Gnostics:  Worship the dark force in nature. These groups
          follow the whims of a capricious god, which most westerners would
          see as being "evil." There are a few historical christian heresies
          which would fall into this category. Kali worshippers could also
          be categorized here.

          4.  Secondary Satanists:  follow a faith outside the Christian
          mainstream. Most would not consider themselves as being "Satanic"
          and strictly speaking should not be defined as satanists (as per se
          with some of the Gnostic groups), but the ignorant often categorize
          them as Satanists. Voodoun and Santiera could be grouped here, as
          could medeaval wicca (if it actually existed).
          
          5. Hellfire Clubs: Were a phenomenon of the 18th century. The
          first of these was founded by the Duke of Wharton in the early
          1700's. Most infamous was sir Francis Dashwood's Medmenham club
          (Often incorrectly called the hellfire club). Dashwood was a
          close freind of Benjamin Franklin, who may have been a member of
          this group. Franklin's description of the Medmeham club's
          secret chambers is one of the few we have, so his membership seems
          likely. In any case, Dashwood and Franklin co-authored the
          "Franklin Prayer Book" (often called the Book of Common Prayer) which is
          commonly used in america. Another famous member of the
          Medmanham club was the Earl of Sandwich, inventor of (guess
          what) the Sandwich. Hellfire clubs were exclusive groups
          dedicated to much political intrigue, partying, and some
          occasional occult activities.



     have read _The Bible_ or part of it.  They simply consider _The Bible_
     to be false and disregard it much like Christians would disregard
     books which represent the foundation of another religion.  Attempting
     to discuss Christianity will, in most cases, only get you flamed and
     not inform the Satanist of "something they didn't know".  If you are
     still tempted to post about _The Bible_ because you feel that we may
     have missed an important point, I suggest you seek out and read the
     alt.atheism FAQ before proceeding.  Many of its points are applicable
     to alt.satanism.

     9.   For the Christians among us:  should you feel inclined to preach.
     You are all going to hell.
     Jesus saves!

     Quite often, members of fundamentalist Christian groups see fit to
     post various evangelical messages in alt.satanism.  The reason for
     this is not clear.  It has been suggested by various members of this
     net, who I shall lump under the convenient category of "Satanist,"
     that the reason for this posturing is that many (perhaps most)
     Born-Again Christian types are closet masochists.  It has also been
     suggested that Christians need to save a certain number of souls to
     get a good seat in paradise, similar in spirit to selling candy-bars
     or magazines to fund various extra-curricular activities in school. 
     Presumably Satanist souls, being sold to the devil already, are worth
     more points.
          While these theories have some merit, considering the teachings
     of their (allegedly) chosen religion, an attempt should be made to be
     open-minded enough to see their side of things.
          Many Christians, when asked why they do this, respond something
     to the effect that it is charity, something they do out of the
     goodness of their hearts, out of concern for people etc. etc.  Well,
     if the Christian is really concerned with people, why not preach to
     those who have not heard the message?  Most "Satanists" are well
     acquainted with the messages of Christianity.  They have been preached
     to ad infinitum, and are fed up with it.  That is part of the reason
     they are Satanists instead of plain old agnostics.  Many Satanists are
     angered by such posts, and justifiably so.

     Now consider this:
          You will never convert a Satanist over USENET.  You either
               1) are too infuriating;
               2) look like a fool.

          There is NO logical reason to convert to Christianity.  The only
     appeals are to the emotions, and as stated before they either look
     foolish or infuriating.  Things like, "But Jesus LOVES you; he died
     for your sins!" or "Your soul is in danger!" are appeals to guilt and

---
 * Origin: Two Wheelers gateway <jpunix!urchin.fidonet.org> (1:106/88.0)

Message number 4984 in "Satanism"
Date: 02-26-93  12:28
From: Lupo 
To:   All
Subj: Pt 4/5: FAQ posting

SPLIT: 27 Feb 93  09:18:56 @106/88       506 04/05 +++++++++++
                                                      
PID: Fred 1.9n6
     fear respectively; not reason.  As most Satanists have chosen this
     path out of reason, these appeals will never work.  As for those
     Satanists who are so for emotional reasons, their minds are as closed
     as that of the Born-again Christian.  Perhaps, if indeed preaching is
     done for humanitarian, and not egotistical or masochistic reasons,
     your energies are better spent educating those who know little of your
     faith: those born atheistic, communists, buddhists etc.  If, as
     suspected, your purposes are more egotistical (look reverend; I
     converted a Satanist!) forget it.  There are no "lost souls," waiting
     to be found, in this community.
          For the masochistically inclined, we suggest self-flagellation. 
     It costs less disk space, is probably more satisfying, and is
     certainly less offensive to the general public.

     Otherwise; GROWL!  BOOGA BOOGA!  HASTUR, ASTAROTH, LEVIATHAN
     ISHTAR!!!!!!!!!  XILKA XILKA!  BESA BESA!  go away already...


10.  How can I get more information about Satanism?
     
     Recommended Reading:

     _The Satanic Bible_, by Anton Szander LaVey, Avon Books, 1969. 
     Presents the Satanic views and doctrines of the Church of Satan,
          along with an introduction to its rituals.

     _The Compleat Witch_ (the new edition is called _The Satanic Witch_), 
       by Anton LaVey, Lancer Books, 1971.
     _The Satanic Rituals_, by Anton LaVey, University Books, 1972.
          More books discussing LaVey's brand of Satanism.

     _The Secret Life of a Satanist_ by Barton Blanche, Mondo Press.
          The authorized biography of Anton LaVey, and a basic guide to
          Satanic philosophy.

     _The Second Coming_, by Arthur Lyons, 1970  [out of print]
          A history of Satanism through the Middle Ages and the modern era.

     _Satan Wants You_, by Arthur Lyons, Mysterious Press (Warner), 1988.
          Presents an overview of Satanism and the history of Satan, plus
          an in-depth look at popular misconceptions.

     _ABRASAX #4_ A magazine published by the American Gnostic Church.
          Issue #4 is dedicated to Satan & satanic matters generally.  They
          can be reached at:

               American Gnostic Church
               PO BOX 1219
               Corpus Christi, TX, 78403-1219

          (This is an old address--I have not checked yet.)


     _The Black Arts_, by Richard Cavendish, Perigee Books (Putnam), 1967.
          An objective introduction to magic, demonology, and classical
          views of Satanism.

     _Black Magic in Theory and Practice_, by Michael Aquino.

     _The Necronomicon_ [by the Mad Arab], Avon Books, 1977.
          Purported ritual book of great efficacy.  Generally regarded as
          fiction interspersed with translations of Mesopotamian texts. 
          Mileage may vary, depending on how seriously you take babble.

     _The Satan Seller_, Mike Warnke's imagination, Logos International,
     1972.
          A Christian presents his alleged experiences in a Satanic cult
          before his conversion to Christianity.

     _Cornerstone_, Volume 21, number 98, "Selling Satan," Jon Trott & Mike
     Hertenstein, 1992.
     This gets *highest* recommendation.  From a Christian magazine
          which does a great job of discrediting Mike Warnke's accounts
          mentioned in _The Satan Seller_ and elsewhere
     
     _Do What You Will_ by Geoffry Ashe
       A history of philosophers & groups who use this thelemic motto. 
       Especially nice history of the "Hellfire Clubs"

     _Satanism: The Seduction of America's Youth_, Bob Larson, Thomas
     Nelson Publishers, 1989.
          The facts on the *conspiracy* now coming to a lonely town near
          you!!! (You're reading the FAQ, so it's already here!)

     _Paradise Lost_ by John Milton.
          An epic poem telling the tale of Lucifer from when he is thrown
          out of heaven, to the Fall of Adam and Eve. It makes Lucifer
          into a heroic figure, whilst God is made out to be a little vague
          and weak.

     _The Divine Comedy_ by Dante.
          Another epic poem in three parts (Inferno, Purgatorio and
          Paradisio) covering the author's pilgrimage through them.

     _The Prince of Darkness_ by Jeffrey Burton Russell, Cornell University
     Press, 1988.
          Historian's work on the history of Satan from earliest history
          through the twentieth century. A summary of a four-book series
          (The Devil, Satan, Lucifer, and Mephistopheles, by the same
          author) which may be too much reading for casual interest.

     _The Old Enemy_ by Neil Forsyth, Princeton University Press, 1987.
          Another history of Satan focusing on the Middle East and early
          Christianity.

     _La-Bas (Down There)_ by J. K. Huysmans (1891?) translated by
     Keene Wallace.
          Fiction novel of the occult and the black mass in late
          nineteenth century Paris.

     H. P. Lovecraft, collected works.
          Classic horror fiction that has served as inspiration for many
          Satanists.

     Frederick Neitzsche, various works
     Neitzschean philosophies form the core of Satanism. Much of the _Satanic
     Bible_ owes its  philosophical and literary roots to works such as
     _Thus Spoke Zarastrutha_  and  _The Anti-Christ_ by  Neitzche.
     Michel Foucault, works
     Though not a direct influence on Satanic  thought, Foucault's work 
     extended and modernized that of Neitzsche, making it more applicable
     to the present day. He is also largely responsible for the "post-modern"
     philosophical movement.

     _The Occult_ by Colin Wilson
          An excellent objective introduction to the subject.

     _Cosmic Trigger_ by Robert A. Wilson
          This book describes various initiations and occult phenomena
          experienced by Mr. Wilson. 

     _Apocalypse Culture_ collected by Adam Parfey.

---
 * Origin: Two Wheelers gateway <jpunix!urchin.fidonet.org> (1:106/88.0)

Message number 4985 in "Satanism"
Date: 02-26-93  12:28
From: Lupo 
To:   All
Subj: Pt 5/5: FAQ posting

SPLIT: 27 Feb 93  09:18:56 @106/88       506 05/05 +++++++++++
PID: Fred 1.9n6
          A shocking work, depicting the worldviews of various "fringe"
          sects and individuals, ranging from necrophiliacs to ultra-right
          wing Christians.

     _Snapping; America's Epidemic of Sudden Personality Change_ by Flo
     Conway & Jim Siegelman.
          An interesting work utilizing information theory in the study of
          sudden personality change as occurs in religious cults, and the
          "Born-Again" phenomenon.

     _Who Wrote the Bible?_, by Richard Elliott Friedman, Harper & Row,
     1987.
          A biblical scholar attempts to answer the question of the title,
          and in the process comes up with some interesting reasons for
          events in _The Bible_ (why does Moses have horns? Why the scene
          with the golden calf?). An interesting read, and possibly 
          amusing for the cynic.

     _The Dead Sea Scrolls_
          There are many good books on this subject for those who need to
          debunk Christianity historically as well as philosophically. 
          Among them:

          _Dead Sea Scrolls & the Bible_ by Roland E. Murphy (a Roman
          Catholic at that) 1968

          _A Crack in the Jar; What ancient Jewish Documents tell
          us about the New Testament_ by Niel Fujita (also a
          Christian scholar) 1986

          _The Dead Sea Scrolls and the Christian Myth_ by John
          Allegro (one of the original Dead Sea Scholars) 1984

          Note than all of the above scholars are of the old school of
          scroll study.  While all do a good job of debunking Christianity,
          the latest generation of scholarly works is even more damning.

     Following are a number of works recommended dealing with Satanism's
     links with crime, multiple personality disorder, etc.

     _The Satanism Scare_, ed. James T. Richardson, Joel Best, and David G.
     Bromley (NY: Aldine, 1991): 145-172.

     _Satan's Power: A Deviant Psychotherapy Cult_, by William Simms
     Bainbridge, U of CA Press, 1978.

     _Battle for the Mind_, by William Sargent, Harper & Row, 1957.

     _In Pursuit Of Satan_, by Robert D. Hicks (Prometheus Books),

     _Satanism In America_, issued by the Committee for the Scientific
     Examination of Religion.

     "Occult Crime:  A Law Enforcement Primer"
          [To obtain a copy of this report, write to

               California Office of Criminal Justice Planning
               1130 K Street, Suite 300
               Sacramento, CA 95814

          (Phone: (916) 324-9100).  Request the "Research Update, Special
          Edition, Winter 1989-1990, Volume 1, Number 6" issue.  No mention
          is made of a donation, but it may be useful to inquire
          beforehand.]




---
 * Origin: Two Wheelers gateway <jpunix!urchin.fidonet.org> (1:106/88.0)
                              
