A Call to Heresy

Containing Biblical Quotations Regarding Women, Sex, Slavery, Race, and the
End of the World, as well as a Collection of Contradictions, Atrocities and
Absurdities, Biblical Facts and Commentary.  Compiled and Published in this
First Edition by Trevor Blake in August, September, and October of 1991 e.v.
(era vulgaris, the common era) and Based on No Small Amount of Research.

[The word "heresy"] comes from a greek noun form (hairesis) of a verb in the
middle voice (haireisthai) meaning "to take for oneself" -- to choose.  This
concept corresponds aptly to the conviction that there can be no faith without
personal decision...  There are... two principle ways people arrive at
convictions.  If a person's beliefs, however many or few, are to be really
his, he should choose maturely which of the two ways appears the more sound
and then apply its methodology to select or form such beliefs.  This is his
heresy: his choosing for himself.  The results of such choosing may also be
heresy in the other, more commonplace, sense of the word... Therefore, if both
the positive and negative meanings of hairesis are taken into account, every
truely believing individual is heretical in the positive sense, whether or not
what he has chosen to believe is heretical in the negative sense.  - Bishop
James Pike, If This Be Heresy.

This document has been prepared as an ASCII text file for IBM and compatable
computers, and may be reproduced and distributed by any means including BBS,
disk or in printed form.  If you find this document interesting, informative,
useful or amusing then please consider sending a Postal Money Order made out
to "Trevor Blake" for five dollars or more at the following address.  Do not
send any other sort of money order; send only a Postal Money Order, available
at most post offices.  Do not send checks or credit cards.  Well-hidden cash
or mint U.S. postage stamps of an equal value are also acceptable.  In
gratitude, you will receive a free issue of OVO magazine (send S.A.S.E. for
further information regarding OVO).  Send all additions, corrections,
amplifications and suggestions to the following address for consideration in
future editions of this document.

Trevor Blake, Post Office Box 23061, Knoxville Tennessee 37933-1061, United
States.

A Call to Heresy

Part One: Bible Quotations

The Bible on Women

Unto the women he (God) said "I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy
conception; in sorrow thou shall bring forth children and thy desire shall be
to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee." -Genesis 3:16

If a woman have conceived seed, and born a man child: then she shall be
unclean seven days... But if she bear a maid child, then she shall be unclean
two weeks...  
- Leviticus 12:2-8

And every garment, and every skin, whereon is the seed of copulation, shall be
washed with water, and be unclean until the even.  The woman also with whom
man shall lie with seed of copulation, they shall both bathe themselves in
water, and be unclean until the even.  And if a woman have an issue, and her
issue in her flesh be blood, she shall be put apart seven days: and whosoever
toucheth her shall be unclean until the even.  And every thing that she lieth
upon in her separation shall be unclean.  And whosoever toucheth her bed shall
wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
And whoever toucheth any thing that she sat upon shall wash his clothes, and
bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.  And if any man lie
with her at all, and her flowers be upon him, he shall be unclean seven days;
and all the beds whereon he lieth shall be unclean... This is the law of him
that hath an issue, and of him whose seed goeth from him, and is defile d
therewith; and of her that is sick of her flowers, and of him that hath an
issue, of the man, and of the woman, and of him that lie with her that is
unclean.
- Leviticus 15:17-33

Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as it is fit in the Lord.
-Colossians 3:18

Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands...
- 1 Peter 3:1

Likewise ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honor
unto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel...
- 1 Peter 3:7

[Women] are commanded to be under obedience, as also saith the law.  
- I Corinthians 14:34

But I would have you know, that the head of every man is Christ; and the head
of the woman is the man...  
- 1 Corinthians 11:3

Neither was the man created for the woman; but the woman for the man.  
- 1 Corinthians 11:9

But if thou hast gone aside to another instead of thy husband, and if thou be
defiled, and some man have lain with thee beside thine husband: Then the
priest shall charge the woman with an oath of cursing and the priest shall say
unto the woman, The LORD doth make thy thigh to rot, and thy belly to swell;
and this water that causeth the curse shall go into thy bowels, to make thy
belly swell, and thy thigh to rot: and the woman shall say Amen, amen.
- Numbers 5:20-22

But if this thing be true, and the tokens of virginity be not found for the 
damsel: Then they shall bring out the damsel to the door of her father's
house, and the men of her city shall stone her with stones that she die...
- Deuteronomy 22:20-21

It is better to live in a corner of the roof than in a house shared with a
contentious woman.
- Proverbs 25:24

Now that she is a widow indeed, and desolate, trusteth in God, and continueth
supplications and prayers night and day.  But she that liveth in pleasure is
dead while she liveth.
- 1 Timothy 5:5-6

Let your women keep silent in the churches: for it is not permitted unto them
to speak; but they are commanded to be under obedience, as also saith the law.
- 1 Corinthians 14:34

Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection.  But I suffer not a woman
to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence.
- 1 Timothy 2:11-12

Wives, submit yourselves unto your husbands, as unto the Lord.  For the
husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church...
- Ephesians 5:22-23

The Bible on Sex

It is good for a man not to touch a woman.
- 1 Corinthians 7:1

For there are some eunuchs which were so born from their mother's womb; and
there are some eunuchs which were made eunuchs of men; and there be eunuchs
which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake.  He that
is able to receive it, let him receive it.
- Matthew 19:12

Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly
lusts, which war against the soul.
- 1 Peter 2:11

For I would that all men were even as I myself [see Matthew 19:12]... I say
therefore to the unmarried and widows.  It is good for them if they abide even
as I.  But if they cannot contain, let them marry: for it is better to marry
than to burn.
- 1 Corinthians 7:7-9

The children of this world take wives and husbands, but those who are judged
worthy of a place in the other world and in the resurrection from the dead do
not marry...
- Luke 20:34-35

Whosoever lieth with a beast shall surely be put to death.
- Exodus 22:19

And if a man lieth with a beast, he shall surely be put to death: and ye shall
slay the beast.
- Leviticus 20:15

If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman, both of them have
committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall
be upon them.
- Leviticus 20:13

Now Jacob fled to the land of Syria, and Abraham served for a wife, and for a
wife kept he sheep.
- Hosea 12:12

And the man that committeth adultry with another man's wife, even he that
committeth adultry with his neighbour's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress
shall surely be put to death.
- Leviticus 20:10

If a man be found lying with a woman married to an husband, then they shall
both of them die...
- Deuteronomy 22:22

Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these; Adultery,
fornication, uncleanliness, lasciviousness.
- Galatians 5:19

Then Judah said to Onan, "Go in to your brother's wife, and perform your duty
as a brother-in-law to her, and raise up offspring for your brother." And Onan
knew that the offspring would not be his; so it came about that when he went
in to his brother's wife, he wasted his seed on the ground, in order not to
give offspring to his brother.  But what he did was displeasing in the sight
of the LORD; so he took his life also.
- Genesis 38:8-10

And whosoever lieth carnally with a woman, that is a bondsmaid... she shall be
scourged... And he shall bring his tresspass offering unto the Lord...
- Leviticus 19:20-21

The Bible on Slavery and Race

Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers.  For there is no power but
of God: the powers that be are ordained of God.
- Romans 13:1

Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh; not with
eyeservice, as menpleasers; but in singleness of heart, fearing God.
- Colossians 3:22

Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake: whether it be
to the king, as supreme: or unto governors...
- 1 Peter 2:18

... Then said the Lord to me, Go ye, love a woman, beloved of her friend, yet
an adulteress... so I bought her...
- Hosea 3:1

The Scribes and Pharises sit in Moses seat; all, therefore, whatsoever they
bid you observe, that observe and do.
- Matthew 23:2-3

I councel thee to keep the king's commandment... whoso keepeth the commandment
shall feel no evil thing.
- Ecclesiastes 23:2-5

Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall be unto his bretheren.
- Genesis 4:25

I will sell your sons and daughters into the hands of the children of Judah,
and they shall sell them to the Sabeans, to a people afar off; for the Lord
hath spoken it.
- Joel 3:8

Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear; not only to the good and 
gentle, but also to the foward.
- 1 Peter 2:18

Let as many servants as are under your yoke count their own masters worthy of 
all honor, that the name of God and his doctrine be not blasphemed.
- 1 Timothy 6:1

Servants, be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh, 
with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as unto Christ.
- Ephesians 6:5

Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters, and to please them well 
in all things; not answering again; not purloining, but showing good fidelity;
that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things.
- Titus 2:9-10

And if a man smite his servant, or his maid, with a rod, and he die under his 
hand; he shall be surely punished.  Notwithstanding, if he continue a day or
two, he shall not be punished: for he is his money.
- Exodus 21:20-21

If thou buy an Hebrew servant, six years he shall serve: and in the seventh he 
shall go out free for nothing.  If he came in by himself, he shall go out by
himself: if he were married, then his wife shall go out with him.  If his
master has given him a wife, and she has born him sons or daughters; the wife
and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out by himself.  And
if the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife, and my children;
I will not go free: Then his master shall bring him unto the judges; he shall
also bring him to the door, or unto the door post; and his master shall bore
his ear through with an aul; and he shall serve him for ever.
- Exodus 21:2-6

Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's...
- Matthew 22-21

For everyone that curseth his father or his mother shall be surely put to
death.
- Leviticus 20:9

Both thy bondsmen, and thy bondsmaids, which thou shall have, shall be of the 
heathen that are round about you; of them shall ye buy bondsmen and
bondsmaids.  Moreover of the children of the strangrs that do sojourn among
you, of them shall ye buy, and of their families that are with you, which they
begat in your land: and they shall be your possession.  And ye shall take them
as an inheritance for your children after you, to inherit them for a
possession...
- Leviticus 25:44-45

For ye, bretheren, became followers of the churches of God which in Judea are 
in Christ Jesus: for ye also have suffered like things of your own countrymen,
even as they have of the Jews: Who both killed the Lord Jesus and their own
prophets, and have persecuted us; and they please not God, and are contrary to
all men.
- 1 Thessalonians 2:14-15

And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write:The first and the last, who was 
dead, and has come to life, says this: I know your tribulation and your
poverty (but you are rich), and the blasphemy by those who say they are Jews
and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.
- Revelations 2:9

[Jews calling for the crucifiction of Jesus:] "... His blood be on us and on
our children!"
- Matthew 27:25

After these things Jesus walked in Galilee; for he would not walk in Jewry,
because the Jews saught to kill him.
- John 7:1

The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by our law he ought to die.
- John 19:7

[Jesus Christ addressing Jews:] "You are of your father the devil, and you
want to do the desires of your father... you are not of God."
- John 8:44-47

Then Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses because of the Etheopean woman whom
he had married, for he had married an Etheopian woman.
-Number 21:1

The Bible on The End of the World

But the end of all things is at hand...
- 1 Peter 4:7

Little children, it is the last time: and as ye have heard that antichrist
shall come, even now there are many antichrists; whereby we know that it is
the last time.
- 1 John 2:18

Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened, and
the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven... and
then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven, and then shall all the
tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of man coming in the
clouds of heaven... This generation shall not pass, till all these things be
fulfilled.
- Matthew 24:29-34

And [Jesus Christ] said unto them, Verily I say unto you, that there be some
of them that stand here, which shall not taste of death, till they have seen
the kingdom of God come with power.
- Mark 9:1

For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and 
then he shall reward every man according to his works.  Verily I say unto you,
there be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see the
Son of man coming in his kingdom.
- Matthew 16:27-28

... the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light and the
stars of heaven shall fall... And then shall he send his angels, and shall
gather together his elect from the four winds, from the uttermost part of the
earth... Verily I say unto you, that this generation shall not pass, till all
these things be done.
 - Mark 14:24-30

But I tell you as a truth, there be some standing here, which shall not taste
of death, till they see the kingdom of God.
- Luke 9:27

And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars...
Men's hearts failing them for fear... and then shall they see the Son of man
coming in a cloud... This generation shall not pass till all be fulfilled.
- Luke 21:25-32

Contradictions in the Bible

Think not that I come to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a
sword.
- Matthew 10:28

... all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword.
- Matthew 26:52
***
For wrath killeth the foolish man...
- Job 5:2

... let not the sun go down on your wrath.
- Ephesians 4:26
***
And no man hath ascended up to heaven, even the Son of man which is in heaven.
- John 3:13

... and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven.
- 2 Kings 2:11
***
If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true.
- John 5:31

I am one that bear witness of myself...
- John 8:18
[Jesus Christ was the speaker in both of these quotes]
***
A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children...
- Proverbs 13:22

Sell that ye have and give alms...
- Luke 12:33
***
Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord... Wealth and riches shall be in his
house...
- Psalms 112:1-3

It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich
man to enter the kingdom of God.
- Matthew 19:24
***
I and my father are one.
- John 10:30

... I go unto the Father: for my Father is greater than I.
- John 14:28
[Jesus Christ was the speaker in both of these quotes]
***
Thou shalt not kill
- Exodus 20:13

Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Put every man his sword by his side... and
slay every man his brother...
- Exodus 32:27
***
Remember the sabbath day to keep it holy.
- Exodus 20:8

The new moons and sabbaths, the calling of assemblies, I cannot away with: it
is iniquity.
- Isaih 3:22
***
Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of anything
that is in heaven... earth... [or] water.
- Leviticus 26:11

And thou shalt make two cherubims of gold, of beaten work shalt thou make
them.
- Exodus 25:18
***
For by grace are ye saved through faith... not of works.
- Ephesians 2:8-9

Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only.
- James 2:24
***
God is not a man, that he should lie: neither the son of man, that he should
repent.
- Numbers 23:19

And the Lord repented of the evil which he thought to do unto his people.
- Exodus 32:14
***
... the hour is coming, in which all that are in the graves shall hear his
voice, and come forth...
- John 5:28-29

As the cloud is consumed and vanisheth away: so he that goeth down to the
grave shall come up no more.
- Job 7:9
***
... thou shalt give life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for
hand, foot for foot, burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.
- Exodus 21:23-25

... resist not evil; but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn
to him the other also.
- Matthew 5:39
***
Honor thy father and mother.
- Exodus 20:12

If any man come to me, and hate not his father and mother, and wife, and
children, and bretheren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be
my disciple.
- Luke 14:26
***
Lay not up for yourself treasures upon the earth...
- Matthew 6:19

In the house of the righteous is much treasure...
- Proverbs 15:6
***
I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved.
- Genesis 32:30

No man hath seen God at any time.
- John 1:18
***
The son shall not bear the iniquity of the father.
- Ezekiel 18:20

... I the lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers
upon the children unto the third and fourth generation.
- Exodus 20:5
***
Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding.
- Proverbs 3:13

For in much wisdom is much grief; and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth
sorrow.
- Ecclesiastes 1:18
***
The Lord is good to all.
- Psalm 145:6

I make peace and create evil.  I the Lord do all these things.
- Isaiah 45:7
***
Whosoever shall say Thou fool, shall be in danger of hellfire.
- Matthew 5:22

[Jesus said] Ye fools and blind.
- Matthew 23:17
***
For all have sinned.
- Romans 3:23

There was a man... whose name was Job; and that man was perfect and upright.
- Job 1:1
***
Two and twenty years old was Ahaziah when he began to regin.
- 2 Kings 8:26

Fourty and two years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign.
- 2 Chronicles 22:2
***
If a man vow a vow unto the Lord or swear an oath... he shall do according to
all that proceedeth out of his mouth.
- Numbers 30:2

But I say unto you, swear not at all; neither by heaven... nor by earth.
- Matthew 5:34-35
***
... the earth abideth forever.
- Ecclesiastes 1:4

... the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works
that are therein shall be burned up.
- 2 Peter 3:10
***
... for I am merciful, saith the Lord, and I will not keep anger forever.
- Jeremiah 3:12

Ye have kindled a fire in mine anger, which shall burn forever.
- Jeremiah 17:4
***
... God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man.
- James 1:13

And it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt Abraham.
- Genesis 22:1
***
And God saw everything that he made, and behold it was very good.
- Genesis 1:31

And it repented the Lord that he had made man on earth, and it grieved him at
his heart
- Genesis 6:6
***
For now have I chosen and sanctified this house that my name be there forever;
and mine eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually.
- II Corinthians 7:16

Howbeit the most high dwelleth not in temples made with hands.
- Acts 7:48
***
[God dwells] in the light which no man can approach unto.
- I Timothy 6:16

The Lord said that he would dwell in the thick darkness.
- I Kings 8:12
***
And the Lord called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where art thou? And he said,
I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid.
- Genesis 3:9,10

Ye hath neither heard his voice, at any time, nor seen his shape.
- John 5:37
***
Then went up Moses and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of
Israel.  And they saw the God of Israel... They saw God, and did eat and
drink.
- Exodus 24: 9-11

Whom no man hath seen nor can see.
- I Timothy 6:16
***
With God all things are possible.
- Matthew 29:26

And the Lord was with Judah, and he drove out the inhabitants of the mountain;
but could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had
chariots of iron.
- Judges 1:19
***
God is not the author of confusion.
- I Corinthians 24:33

Out of the mouth of the most high proceedeth not evil and good?
- Lamantations 3:38
***
Those that seek me early shall find me.
- Proverbs 8:17

Then shall they call upon me but I will not answer; they shall seek me early,
but shall not find me.
- Proverbs 1:28
***
On the tenth day of this seventh month there shall be a day of attonement; it
shall be a holy convocation unto you; and ye shall afflict your souls and
offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord.
- Leviticus 23:27

For I spake not unto your fathers, nor comanded them in the day that I brought
them out of the land of Egypt, concerning burnt offering or sacrifices.
- Jerimiah 7:22
***
And the priest shall burn all on the altar to be a burnt sacrifice, an
offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the Lord.
- Leviticus 1:9

Your burnt offering are not acceptable, nor your sacrifices sweet unto me.
- Jerimiah 7:20
***
God is not a man, that he should lie
- Numbers 23:19

And if the prophet be deceived when he hath spoken a thing, I the Lord have
deceived that prophet.
- Ezekial 24:9
***
There is none other God but one.
- I Corinthians 8:4

And God said, Let us make man in our image.
- Genesis 1:26
***
When ye go, ye shall not go empty; but every woman shall borrow of her
neighbor, and of her that sojourneth in her house, jewels of silver and jewels
of gold, and rainment; and ye shall put them on your sons and upon your
daughters; and ye shall spoil the Egyptians.
- Exodus 3:21,22

Thou shalt not defraud thy neighbor, nether rob him.
- Leviticus 19:13
***

At the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of man.  Whoso
sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed.
- Genesis 4:5,6

And the Lord set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.
- Genesis 4:15
***
Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do
they spin... if God so clothe the grass of the field... shall he not much more
clothe you? Therefore, take no thought, saying what shall we eat? or what
shall we drink? or wherewithal shall we be clothed?... Take, therefore, no
thought for the morrow.
- Matthew 6:28, 30-34

But if any provideth not for his own, especially for those of his own house,
he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel.
- I Timothy 5:8
***
Be ye angry and sin not.
- Ephesians 4:26

Be not hasty in they spirit to be angry; for anger resideth in the bosom of
fools.
- Ecclesiastes 7:9
***
Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works.
- Matthew 5:16

Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them.
- Matthew 6:1
***
And Solomon stood before the alter of the Lord, in the presence of all the
congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands toward heaven...
- I Kings 7:22

When thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are; for they love to
pray standing in the synagogues, and in the corners of the streets, that they
may be seen of men...
- Matthew 6:5
***
And no razor shall come on his head; for the child shall be a Nararite unto
God from the womb.
- Judges 8:5

Doth not even nature itself teach you, that if a man hath long hair, it is a
shame unto him?
- I Corinthians 6:14
***
Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy.
- Exodus 20:8

One man esteemeth one day above another; another esteemeth every day alike.
Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind.
- Romans 14:5
***
For in the six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in
them is, and rested the seventh day; wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath
day and hallowed it.
- Exodus 20:11

And remember that thou wast a servant in the land of Egypt, and that the Lord
thy God brought the out thence through a mighty hand and by a stretched-out
arm; therefore the Lord thy God commanded the to keep the Sabbath day.
- Deuteronomy 5:15
***
There is nothing unclean of itself.
- Romans 14:14

Nevertheless, these shall ye not eat, of them that chew the cud or of them
that divide the cloven hoof; as the camel and the hare, and the coney; for
they chew the cud, but divide not the hoof, therefore they are unclean unto
you.  And the swine, because it divideth the hoof, yet cheweth not the cud, it
is unclean unto you; ye shall not eat of their flesh, nor touch their dead
carcass.
- Deuteronomy 14:7,8
***
Cursed is he that lieth with his sister, the daughter of his father, or the
daughter of his mother.
- Deuteronomy 27:22

And Abraham said... She is my sister; she is the daughter of my father, but
not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.
- Genesis 20:11,12
***
If bretheren dwell together, and one of them die and have no child, the wife
of the dead shall not marry without unto a stranger; her husband's brother
shall go in unto her, and take her to him to wife.
- Deuteronomy 25:5

If a man shall take his brother's wife, it is an unclean thing... they shall
be childless.
- Leviticus 20:21
***
He that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never forgiveness.
- Mark 3:29

And by him that believe are justified from all things.
- Acts 13:39
***
[John the Baptist] is Elias which was for to come.
- Matthew 11:14

And they asked him, what then? Art thou [John the Baptist] Elias? And he
saith, I am not.
- John 1:21
***

Now, after that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the
gospel of the kingdom of God.
- Mark 1:14

After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the land of Judea... and
John was also baptising Enon... for John was not yet cast into prison.
- John 3:22-24
***
And it was in the third hour, and they crucified him.
- Mark 25:3-4

And it was the preparation of the passover, and about the sixth hour; and he
saith unto the Jews, behold your king... Shall I crucify your king?
- John 19:14-15
***
They gave him vinegar to drink, mingled with gall.
- Matthew 27:34

And they gave him to drink, wine mingled with myrrh.
- Mark 15:23
[Jesus was the thirsty chap in both verses.]
***
And the men which journyed with [Paul] stood speechless, hearing a voice, but
seeing no man.
- Acts 9:7

And they that were with me [Paul] saw indeed the light and were afraid; but
they heard not the voice of him that spake to me.
- Acts 22:9
***
Abraham had two sons; one by a bonds-maid, the other by a free woman.
- Galtians 4:22

By faith, Abraham when he was tried offered up Isaac... his only begotten son.
- Hebrews 11:17
***
Therefore Michal, the daughter of Saul, had no child unto the day of her
death.
- II Samuel 6:23

The five sons of Michal, the daughter of Saul.
- II Samuel 21:8
***
And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he moved David
against them to say, Go, number Israel.
- II Samuel 24:1

And Satan stood up against Israel, and provoked David to number Israel.
- I Chronicles 21:1
***
All power is given unto [Jesus] in heaven and in earth.
- Matthew 28:18


And [Jesus] could there do no mighty work, save that he laid his hands on a
few sick folk and healed them.
- Mark 6:5
***
There shall no evil happen to the just.
- Proverbs 12:21

Whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.
- Hebrews 12:6

Atrocities and Absurdities in the Bible

And when the Lord thy God hath delivered it unto thine hands, thou shalt smite
every male thereof with the edge of the sword: but the women, and the little
ones, and the cattle, and all that is in the city, even all the spoils
thereof, shalt thou take unto thyself; and thou shalt eat the spoil of thine
enemies, which the Lord thy God hath given thee.
- Deuteronomy 20:13-14

For my love they are my adversaries... When he shall be judged, let him be
condemned... Let his days be few; and let another take his office.  Let his
children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.  Let his children be continually
vagabonds, and beg: let them seek their bread also out of their desolate
places.  Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; and let the strangers
spoil his labor.  Let there be none to extend mercy unto him: neither let
there be any to favor his fatherless children.  Let his posterity be cut off;
and in the generation following let their name be blotted out.
- Psalm 109:4-13

For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft...
- 1 Samuel 15:23

You shall not allow a soceress to live.
- Exodus 22:18

He who sacrifices to any god, other than to the Lord alone, shall be utterly
destroyed.
- Exodus 22:20

[Moses to his soldiers:] Now therefore kill every male among the little ones,
and kill every woman that hath known man by lying with him.  But all the women
children that have not known a man by lying with him, keep alive for
yourselves.
- Numbers 31:17-18

And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name they shall cast out
devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if
they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on
the sick, and they shall recover.
- Mark 16:17-18

But those mine enemies, which would not that I should reign over them, bring
them hither, and slay them before me.
- Mark 9:34

Many of them also which used curious arts brought their books together and
burned them... So mightily grew the word of God and prevailed.
- Acts 19:19-20

... if through falshood God's truthfulness abounds to his glory, why am I
still being condemned as a sinner? And why not do evil that good may come, as
some people slanderously charge us with saying? Their condemnation is just.
- Romans 3:7-8

You shall not round off the side-growth of your heads, nor harm the edges of
your beard.  You shall not make any cuts in your body for the dead, nor make
any tattoo marks on yourselves: I am the LORD.
- Leviticus 19:27-28

Behold, I will corrupt your seed, and spread dung upon your faces.
- Malachi 2:3

And thou shalt eat it as barley cakes, and thou shalt bake it with dung that
cometh out of man...
- Ezekiel 4:12

Lo, I have given thee cow's dung for man's dung and thou shalt prepare thy
bread therewith.
- Ezekiel 4:15

... Hath he not sent me to the men that sit upon the wall, that they may eat
their own dung, and drink their own piss with you?
- Isaiah 36:12

Wherefore my bowels shall sound like aharp for Moab, and mine insard parts for
Kirkarcsh.
- Isaiah 16:11

Happy shall he be, that taketh and dasheth thy little ones against the stones.
- Psalms 137:9

Jesus Christ on the Bible

Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets: I am not come to
destroy, but to fulfill... Till heaven and earth shall pass, one jot or one
tittle shall in no wise pass from the law...

- Matthew 5:17-18



Part Two: Facts About the Bible



1. John 3:2 refers to Jesus Christ as "Rabbi," but teachers of the Jewish law
   were not called Rabbis until after the destruction of the Temple in 70 e.v.  
   Jesus was supposed to have died several years prior.

2. Jesus Christ refered to himself as the "son of man." In some instances, the 
   word used for "son" could also be translated "invention." Jesus, the
   invention of man.

3. Mark 7:1-5 and Matthew 15:1-6 relate a controversy beween Jesus and the 
   Pharasees regarding the washing of hands before meals.  However, the
   institution of washing hands before meals took place only after the year 65
   e.v.

4  The "Golden Rule" was not an invention of Jesus Christ.  It is found in 
   Leviticus 19:18 and in Tobit 4:15 but was also stated by teacher Hillel a
   full generation before Christ when he said "Whatever is hateful to you, do
   not do to your fellow man."

5. Timothy 3:16, which states "All scripture is inspired by God," was writen 
   when there was no New Testament Canon; at most, it can only refer to the
   Old Testament and the Apocrypha.

6. In the seventh chapter of Mark Jesus is reported as going through Sidon on 
   his way to Tyre to the Sea of Galilee.  Not only is Sidon in the opposite
   direction, but there was in fact no road from Sidon to the Sea of Galilee
   in the first century AD, only one from Tyre.

7. Mark 10:12 represents Jesus as saying "If a woman divorces her husband and 
   marries another she is guilty of adultery." This would have been
   meaningless in the Jewish world, where women have no right of divorce.

8. The gospels were writen at least over two hundred years after the death of 
   Jesus Christ, and not by the apostles they are named after.

9. Although Paul's writings comprise a substantial proportion of the New 
   Testament, he was apparently entirely ignorant of Jesus' life.  He does not
   name Jesus' parents, where he was born, where he lived, or when.  His books
   contain no mention of Jesus' parables or "miracles," no reference to his
   trial before Pilot, nor of Jerusalem as the place of his execution.  On his
   own admission, Paul never knew Jesus and based his whole faith on a vision 
   he claimed to have received of the ressurected Jesus.

10.There is no historical corroberation that King Herrod killed children as 
   reported in Matthew 2:16, although a wealth of information on Herrod is
   known.

11.In Isaiah 7:14, "The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son," the 
   passage used to justify the Messiah-status of Jesus in Matthew, the
   original text of Isaiah used the word 'almah, which simply means "young
   woman." Only in the 3rd century e.v. was the Greek word parthenos (virgin)
   inacurately used as a translation for 'almah.  Further, Mark 6:3 lists
   Jesus' brothers and sisters, entirely dismissing Jesus' claim to a virgin
   birth and Mary's status as a virgin mother.

12.Luke announces the birth of Jesus as taking place in the reign of Herod the 
   Great, who is known to have died in 4 BC.  In Luke 2:1-3 it is said "Now at
   this time Casaer Augustus issued a decree for a census of the whole world
   to be taken.  This census -- the first -- took place while Quirinus was
   governor of Syria, and everyone went to his home to be registered..." The
   first-ever census among Jews did take place during Quirinius' governorship,
   but this did not and could not have happened until at least 6 e.v, the
   first year that Judaea came under direct Roman rule, when it was reliably
   recorded by Josephus as an unprecedented event of that year.


13.The releasing to the multitude of any one prisoner whom they wanted during 
   the feast of the governor where Barabbas was chosen over Jesus as reported
   in Matthew 27:15 has no historic corroberation.

14.According to Matthew 1:16 Joseph, surrogate father of Jesus, was the son of 
   Jacob.  According to Luke 3:23, Joseph was the son of Heli.

15.According to Isaiah 11:12 and Revelations 7:1, the world has four corners.  
   Other bible verses speak of the earth as a flat object with massive caves
   underneith and a bowl-shaped sky above.  The sun and moon move under the
   bowl of the sky, and stars are small holes in the dome of the sky.



Part Three: Commentary on the Bible and Christianity



As a literary monument the Bible is of much later origin than the Vedas; as a
work of literary value it is surpased by everything writen in the last two
thousand years by authors even of second rank, and to compare it seriously
with the productions of Homer, Sophocles, Dante, Shakespeare or Gothe would
require a fanatacized mind that had entirely lost its power of judgement.  Its
conception of the universe is childish, and its morality revolting, as
revealed in the malicious vengance attributed to God in the Old Testament and
in the New, the parable of the laborers of the eleventh hour and the episodes
of Mary Magdalen and the woman taken in adultry.  Historical investigations
have revealed to us the origin and growth of the Bible.  We know that by this
name we designate a collection of writings as radically unlike in origin,
character and contents, as if the Nibelungen Lied, Mirabeu's speeches, Heine's
love poems and a manual of zoology had been printed and mixed up
promiscuously, and then bound into one volume.  We find collected in this book
the superstitious beliefs of the ancient inhabitants of Palestine, with
indistinct echoes of Indian and Persian fables, mistaken imitations of
Egyptian theories and customs, historical chronicles as dry as they are
unreliable, and miscellaneous poems, amatory, human and Jewish-national, which
are rarely distinguished by beauties of the highest order, but frequently by
superfluity of expression, bad taste, and genuine Oriental sensuality.  - Max
Nordau, Conventional Lies of Our Civilization

Our study of pornography, our living of life, tells us that the myth of
feminine evil lived out so resolutely by the Christians of the Dark Ages, is
alive and well, here and now.  Our study of pornography, our living of life,
tells us that though the witches are dead, burned alive at the stake, the
belief in female evil is not, the hatred of female carnality is not.  The
Church has not changed its premises; the culture has not refuted those
premises.  It is left to us, the inheritors of that myth, to destroy it and
institutions based on it.  - Andrea Dworkin, Women Hating

Leaders in the field of marketing products of divinity, the Christian churches
have bowed to the pressures of the commodity system and put on a display of
contortionism which will not cease until their trade-mark, the chameleon-like
Jesus, has been discared entirely.  Son of God, son of a whore, son of the
virgin, worker of miracles and maker of loaves, militant and steward, pederast
and puritan, accuser and accused, convict and astronaut... no role is outside
the range of this amazing puppet figure.  He has been a hawker of suffering,
waiter dispensing favors... he has been a sansculotte and socialist, a fascist
and anti-fascist, a stalinist and barbudo, a Reichian and anarchist.  He has
marched on every side under every flag; he has been in every self-doubt and
stood at both ends of the lash, and present at most executions where he has
held the hand both of the executioner and of the executioner's victim.  He has
his place in police-station and prison and school, brothel and barrac k,
department store and guerilla-held territory.  He has been used as a pendant
and dipstick, as a scarecrow standing guard over the resting dead and the
kneeling living; he has been used as torment and short rations: and once the
hawkers of the blessed foreskins have rehabilitated sin as a commercial
proposition he will serve as a dildo... Jesus Christ, superdrug and superstar,
all the images of the man who sold out to God, caught up in the hard sell of
the Godhead.  - Raul Vaughnaheim, The Subsistence Society

... Most of the world is ruled by Biblical religious beliefs -- even Africa 
now.  I want to encourage anything that's a statement against Christianity, 
because over the past 500 years Christian missionaries systematically 
destroyed virtually all of world's diverse cultures, making the world a much 
less interesting place.  No other religion -- Buddhism, Islam, Confucianism, 
Paganism -- did anywhere near the damage Christianity did.  Bishop Landa 
burned almost all the one-of-a-kind Mayan codices -- an incalculable 
historical loss.  There have been so many atrocities (like the Inquisition and 
the Salem witch trials) in the name of Christianity that -- it can't be too 
soon to be rid of that alien belief plague.  In fact, aliens from Outer Space 
could hardly have devised a more crippling weapon against the people of planet 
Earth than the Christian religion.  - V. Vale, Re/Search #12: Modern 
Primitives

With all of the contradictions in the Christian scriptures, many people 
currently cannot rationally accept Christianity the way it has been practiced 
in the past.  Great numbers of people are beginning to doubt the existence of 
God, in the established Christian sense of the word.  So, they have taken to
calling themselves "Christian Athiests." True, the Christian Bible is a mass
of contradictions; but what could be more contradictory than the term
"Christian Athiest?" If prominent leaders of the Christian faith are rejecting
the past interpretation of God, how then can their followers be expected to
adhere to previous religious traditions?  With all the debates about whether
or not God is dead, if he isn't he had better have MEDICARE!  r- Anton LaVey,
The Satanic Bible

The mind that becomes soiled in youth can never again be washed clean.  I know
this by my own experience, and to this day I cherish an unappeasable
bitterness against the unfaithful guardians of my young life, who not only
permitted but compelled me to read an unexpurgated Bible through before I was
fifteen years old.  None can do that and ever draw a clean, sweet breath again
this side of the grave.  - Mark Twain.

I do not find in Christianity one redeeming feature.  - Thomas Jefferson,
quoted in Salvation for Sale by Gerard Thomas Straub

The Bible is not my book, and Christianity is not my religion.  I could never 
give assent to the long, complicated statements of Christian dogma.  - Abraham
Lincoln, quoted in Salvation for Sale by Gerard Thomas Straub

Those who do not violently set themselves against religion, the bogus God, the
parasitic priests -- these professors of resignation are assimilable to the
pact with the countless vermin of Christianity, vermin which must be
exterminated.  - Andre Breton, What is Surrealism?

Christianity -- the religion dominant in our present society -- has had a
history that is simply FILLED with examples of disregard of individual
liberty, equality of men and women, and the dignity of all races of people.
The religion has exhibited over a period of almost two thousand years... a
self-righteous desire to impose itself on anyone and everyone through law, and
a total intense suppression of criticism and questioning of itself.  How can
anyone with any shred of love for freedom call himself or herself part of THAT
tradition?  Religion is a terrible and opportunistic thing.  The fact is that
something in it will always attempt to seize on anything in the world that can
lever it into an even more secure position of dominance.  If the spirit of the 
time is for slavery, then it is for slavery; if the tendency evolves towards 
fascism, it is fascistic.  And true to form when protest is the hallmark of an 
age, the churches turn into abodes of singing nuns with guitars, or earnest 
young ministers decrying nuclear weapons.  - Fred Woodworth, Strike

There is nothing more negative than the result of the critical study of the 
life of Jesus.  The Jesus of Nazareth who came foward publicly as the Messiah,
who preached the ethic of the Kingdom of God, who founded the Kingdom of
Heaven upon earth, and died to give his work its final consecration, never had
any existence... This image has not been destroyed from without, it has fallen
to pieces, cleft and disintegrated by the concrete historical problems which
came to the surface one after another...  - Albert Schweitzer, The Quest for
the Historical Jesus.

I do indeed think that we can now know almost nothing concerning the life and
personality of Jesus, since the early Christian sources show no interest in
either, are moreover fragmentary and often legendary.  - Rudolf Bultmann

An old adage says, "Where a priest has trod, no grass will grow!" That means, 
in other words, if a person is once in the clutches of the priests, his
intellect becomes barren -- his intellectual functions cease to operate in a
normal way, and instead religious maggots and divine worms wriggle through his
brain.  He resembles a sheep that has the staggers.  These misguided, unhappy
wretches have been defrauded of the real object of life; but what is worse,
they form the great crowd in the train of the opponents to science and the
march of reason, to revolution and to liberty.  Whenever new chains are to be
forged for mankind, they are willing to work at the anvil as if possessed by 
demons...  Away, then, with the Christian theology! Away with a god invented 
by preachers of the bloody faith, who, without their important nothing, by 
means of which they explain everything, could no longer revel in superfluity; 
no longer glorify poverty and live in luxury themselves; no longer preach 
submission and practice arrogance; but who would, through the march of reason, 
be hurled into the deepest depths of oblivion.  - Johann Most, The God 
Pestilence


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 The Salted Slug                          Strange              408-454-9368
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 Tomorrow's 0rder of Magnitude            Finger_Man           415-961-9315
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
