Message #6 board "P_Metaphysical (Mag Articles)"
Date : 22-Jan-93 15:57
From : Simon Novali
To   : All
Subj : Lanning (3 of 11)

(symbols on rock albums, graffiti on walls, desecration of 
cemeteries, vandalism, etc.), the implication is that it is all true 
and documented. Material produced by religious organizations, 
photocopies and slides of newspaper articles, and videotapes of 
tabloid television programs are used to supplement the training and 
are presented as "evidence" of the existence and nature of the 
problem.

All of this is complicated by the fact that almost any discussion of 
satanism and the occult is interpreted in the light of the religious 
beliefs of those in the audience. Faith, not logic and reason, 
governs the religious beliefs of most people. As a result, some 
normally skeptical law enforcement officers accept the information 
disseminated at these conferences without critically evaluating it 
or questioning the sources. Officers who do not normally depend on 
church groups for law enforcement criminal intelligence, who know 
that media accounts of their own cases are notoriously inaccurate, 
and who scoff at and joke about tabloid television accounts of 
bizarre behavior suddenly embrace such material when presented in 
the context of satanic activity. Individuals not in law enforcement 
seem even more likely to do so. Other disciplines, especially 
therapists, have also conducted training conferences on the 
characteristics and identification of "ritual" child abuse. Nothing 
said at such conferences will change the religious beliefs of those 
in attendance. Such conferences illustrate the highly emotional 
nature of and the ambiguity and wide variety of terms involved in 
this issue. 

4. DEFINITIONS

The words "satanic", "occult", and "ritual" are often used 
interchangeably. It is difficult to define "satanism" precisely. No 
attempt will be made to do so here However, it is important to 
realize that, for some people, any religious belief system other 
than their own is "satanic". The Ayatollah Khomeini and Saddam 
Hussein referred to the United States as the "Great Satan". In the 
British Parliament a Protestant leader called the Pope the 
Antichrist. In a book titled _Prepare For War_ (1987), Rebecca 
Brown, M.D. has a chapter entitled "Is Roman Catholicism 
Witchcraft?" Dr. Brown also lists among the "doorways" to satanic 
power and/or demon infestation the following: fortune tellers, 
horoscopes, fraternity oaths, vegetarianism, yoga, self-hypnosis, 
relaxation tapes, acupuncture, biofeedback, fantasy role-playing 
games, adultery, homosexuality, pornography, judo, karate, and rock 
music. Dr. Brown states that rock music "was a carefully 
masterminded plan by none other than Satan himself" (p. 84). The 
ideas expressed in this book may seem extreme and even humorous. 
This book, however, has been recommended as a serious reference in 
law enforcement training material on this topic.

In books, lectures, handout material, and conversations, I have 
heard all of the following referred to as satanism: 
	
-- Church of Satan
-- Ordo Templi Orientis
-- Temple of Set
-- Demonology
-- Witchcraft
-- Occult
-- Paganism
-- Santeria
-- Voodoo
-- Rosicrucians
-- Freemasonry
-- Knights Templar
-- Stoner Gangs
-- Heavy Metal Music
-- Rock Music
-- KKK
-- Nazis
-- Skinheads
-- Scientology
-- Unification Church
-- The Way
-- Hare Krishna
-- Rajneesh
-- Religious Cults
-- New Age
-- Astrology
-- Channeling
-- Transcendental Meditation
-- Holistic Medicine
-- Buddhism
-- Hinduism
-- Mormonism
-- Islam
-- Orthodox Church
-- Roman Catholicism

At law enforcement training conferences, it is witchcraft, santeria, 
paganism, and the occult that are most often referred to as forms of 
satanism. It may be a matter of definition, but these things are not 
necessarily the same as traditional satanism. The worship of lunar 
goddesses and nature and the practice of fertility rituals are not 
satanism. Santeria is a combination of 17th century Roman
Catholicism and African paganism.

Occult means simply "hidden". All unreported or unsolved crimes 
might be regarded as occult, but in this context the term refers to 
the action or influence of supernatural powers, some secret 
knowledge of them, or an interest in paranormal phenomena, and does 
not imply satanism, evil, wrongdoing, or crime. Indeed, 
historically, the principal crimes deserving of consideration as 
"occult crimes" are the frauds perpetrated by faith healers, fortune 
tellers and "psychics" who for a fee claim cures, arrange 
visitations with dead loved ones, and commit other financial crimes 
against the gullible.

Many individuals define satanism from a totally Christian 
perspective, using this word to describe the power of evil in the 
world. With this definition, any crimes, especially those which are 
particularly bizarre, repulsive, or cruel, can be viewed as satanic 
in nature. Yet it is just as difficult to precisely define satanism 
as it is to precisely define Christianity or any complex spiritual 
belief system. 

-- a. WHAT IS RITUAL?

The biggest confusion is over the word "ritual". During training 
conferences on this topic, ritual almost always comes to mean 
"satanic" or at least "spiritual". "Ritual" can refer to a 
prescribed religious ceremony, but in its broader meaning refers to 
any customarily-repeated act or series of acts. The need to repeat 
these acts can be cultural, sexual, or psychological as well as 
spiritual.

Cultural rituals could include such things as what a family eats on 
Thanksgiving Day, or when and how presents are opened at Christmas. 
The initiation ceremonies of fraternities, sororities, gangs, and 
other social clubs are other examples of cultural rituals.

Since 1972 I have lectured about sexual ritual, which is nothing 
more than repeatedly engaging in an act or series of acts in a 
certain manner because of a *sexual* need. In order to become 
aroused and/or gratified, a person must engage in the act in a 
certain way. This sexual ritual can include such things as the 
physical characteristics, age, or gender of the victim, the 
particular sequence of acts, the bringing or taking of specific 
objects, and the use of certain words or phrases. This is more than 
the concept of M.O. (Method of Operation) known to most police 
officers. M.O. is something done by an offender because it works. 
Sexual ritual is something done by an offender because of a need. 
Deviant acts, such as urinating on, defecating on, or even 
eviscerating a victim, are far more likely to be the result of 
sexual ritual than religious or "satanic" ritual.

From a criminal investigative perspective, two other forms of 
ritualism must be recognized. The _Diagnostic and Statistical Manual 
of Mental Disorders_ (DSM-III-R) (APA, 1987) defines "Obsessive- 
Compulsive Disorder" as "repetitive, purposeful, and intentional 
behaviors that are performed in response to an obsession, or 
according to certain rules or in a stereotyped fashion" (p. 247). 
Such compulsive behavior frequently involves rituals. Although such 
behavior usually involves noncriminal activity such as excessive 
hand washing or checking that doors are locked, occasionally 
compulsive ritualism can be part of criminal activity. Certain 
gamblers or firesetters, for example, are thought by some 
authorities to be motivated in part through such compulsions. Ritual 
can also stem from psychotic hallucinations and delusions. A crime 
can be committed in a precise manner because a voice told the 
offender to do it that way or because a divine mission required it.

To make this more confusing, cultural, religious, sexual, and 
psychological ritual can overlap. Some psychotic people are 
preoccupied with religious delusions and hear the voice of God or 
Satan telling them to do things of a religious nature. Offenders who 
feel little, if any, guilt over their crimes may need little 
justification for their antisocial behavior. As human beings, 
however, they may have fears, concerns, and anxiety over getting 
away with their criminal acts. It is difficult to pray to God for 
success in doing things that are against His Commandments. A 
negative spiritual belief system may fulfill their human need for 
assistance from and belief in a greater power or to deal with their 
superstitions. Compulsive ritualism (e.g., excessive cleanliness or 
fear of disease) can be introduced into sexual behavior. Even many 
"normal" people have a need for order and predictability and 
therefore may engage in family or work rituals. Under stress or in 
times of change, this need for order and ritual may increase.

Ritual crime may fulfill the cultural, spiritual, sexual, and 
psychological needs of an offender. Crimes may be ritualistically 
motivated or may have ritualistic elements. The ritual behavior may 
also fulfill basic criminal needs to manipulate victims, get rid of 
rivals, send a message to enemies, and intimidate co-conspirators. 
The leaders of a group may want to play upon the beliefs and 
superstitions of those around them and try to convince accomplices 
and enemies that they, the leaders, have special or "supernatural" 
powers. 

The important point for the criminal investigator is to realize that 
most ritualistic criminal behavior is not motivated simply by 
satanic or any religious ceremonies. At some conferences, presenters 
have attempted to make an issue of distinguishing between "ritual", 
"ritualized", and "ritualistic" abuse of children. These subtle 
distinctions, however, seem to be of no significant value to the 
criminal investigator.

-- c. WHAT IS "RITUAL" CHILD ABUSE?

I cannot define "ritual child abuse" precisely and prefer not to use 
the term. I am frequently forced to use it (as throughout this 
discussion) so that people will have some idea what I am discussing. 
Use of the term, however, is confusing, misleading, and 
counterproductive. The newer term "satanic ritual abuse" 
(abbreviated "SRA") is even worse. Certain observations, however, 
are important for investigative understanding.

Most people today use the term to refer to abuse of children that is 
part of some evil spiritual belief system, which almost by 
definition must be satanic.

Dr. Lawrence Pazder, coauthor of _Michelle Remembers_, defines 
"ritualized abuse of children" as "repeated physical, emotional, 
mental, and spiritual assaults combined with a systematic use of 
symbols and secret ceremonies designed to turn a child against 
itself, family, society, and God" (presentation, Richmond, Va., May 
7,1987). He also states that "the sexual assault has ritualistic 
meaning and is not for sexual gratification".

This definition may have value for academics, sociologists, and 
therapists, but it creates potential problems for law enforcement. 
Certain acts engaged in with children (i.e. kissing, touching, 
appearing naked, etc.) may be criminal if performed for sexual 
gratification. If the ritualistic acts were in fact performed for 
spiritual indoctrination, potential prosecution can be jeopardized, 
particularly if the acts can be defended as constitutionally 
protected religious expression. The mutilation of a baby's genitals
for sadistic sexual pleasure is a crime. The circumcision of a 
baby's genitals for religious reasons is most likely *not* a crime. 
The intent of the acts is important for criminal prosecution.

Not all spiritually motivated ritualistic activity is satanic. 
Santeria, witchcraft, voodoo, and most religious cults are not 
satanism. In fact, most spiritually- or religiously-based abuse of 
children has nothing to do with satanism. Most child abuse that 
could be termed "ritualistic" by various definitions is more likely 
to be physical and psychological rather than sexual in nature. If a 
distinction needs to be made between satanic and nonsatanic child 
abuse, the indicators for that distinction must be related to 
specific satanic symbols, artifacts, or doctrine rather than the 
mere presence of any ritualistic element.

Not all such ritualistic activity with a child is a crime. Almost 
all parents with religious beliefs indoctrinate their children into 
that belief system. Is male circumcision for religious reasons child 
abuse? Is the religious circumcision of females child abuse? Does 
having a child kneel on a hard floor reciting the rosary constitute 
child abuse? Does having a child chant a satanic prayer or attend a 
black mass constitute child abuse? Does a religious belief in 
corporal punishment constitute child abuse? Does group care of 



--- msgedsq 2.1a
 * Origin: The Northern Lights 916-729-0304 (1:203/444)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
