                     Membership In The Church Of Satan

Note: This file is a transcription of a prepared booklet that was being
used by certain youth in my community before one of them was saved.
While being involved in the Satan worship, animal sacrifices were
preformed and other acts. This textfile is presented only for the
purpose of educating the Christian community as to the actions of some
children and we might be more informed as to what is taking place
behind our backs.
 
Dear Member,

Welcome to the good times ahead:

First off Satan and his organization would like to thank you for
showing faith and solidarity: we are sure that through our mutual help
of one and other we will defeat the diseased minds of the priests of
the churches and temples of the world that seek to slander our mighty
lord Lucifer: Eventually, our mighty leader Satan will regain his
position of prominence: Those who help in our crusade will be rewarded
handsomely, your every dream will be fullfilled: Those who work against
our master will be punished:

In all our years of research of the different ways to make contact with
the mighty Satan, our experience has taught us that the most effective
way is as follows: First you must get yourself a table which will serve
as your altar. Next, you need a sword to lay on the altar. Use a long
knife if no sword is available. Next you need a chalice or a goblet
filled with wine. Next you need a parchment or a piece of brown paper
if a piece of commercial parchment is unavailable. Do not kill an
animal if none is available. Next you need a black candle. As far as
clothing is considered, it is definatily prefered to ware a black robe.
If black is unavailable, simply get any color and dye it black.

Now you must wait until the sun sets and it is dark. Next you must be
totally and completely alone in your house or apartment. Satan does not
make group meetings. This is an extremely personal and confidential
affair. Place all the elements on your altar. Turn off your light.
Light the candle and repeat:

"Emperor Lucifer, master of the rebellious spirits, I beg you to be
favourable to me, when now I call for your minister, the great Lucifuge
Rofocale, as I desire to sign a contract with him. I beg also that
Prince Beelsebub may protect my enterprise. O  Astaroth, great count,
be favourable likewise, and make it possible for the great Lucifuge to
appear to me in human form and force, without bad ordour, and that he
grant me, by the agreement which I am ready to sign with him, all
riches I need. O great Lu cifuge, I pray that you leave your dwelling
wherever it may be to come here and speak to me."

Next you must write on the parchment whatever you desire. (You only do
this for the first time till your wish is fullfilled. After just place
the inscribed contract on the altar.) Do youself a favour and set your
sights on logical goals, it takes time f or Satan to gradually take you
inti his confidence.

Next take a small pinch of the sacred powder and sprinkle it over the
candle. Now chant the following 3 times:

In the name of Satan, the Ruler of the earth, the King of the world, I
command the forces of Darkness to bestow their Infernal power upon me:

Open wide the gates of Hell and come forth from the abyss to greet me
as your brother (sister) and friend:

Grant me the indulgences of which I speak:

I have taken thy name as part of myself: I live as the beasts of the
fields, rejoicing in the fleshly life: I fovor the just and curse the
rotten:

By all the Gods of the pit, I command that these things of which I
speak shall come to pass:

Come forth and answer to your names by manifesting my desires:

After you have done this you should take the sword, hold it with both
hands straight in front of your self and state:

     Hail Satan:
     Hail Satan:
     Hail Satan:

Behold: The mighty voices of my vengenance smash the stillness of the
air and stand as monoliths of wrath upon a plain writhing serpants. I
am become as a monstrous machine of annihilation to the festering
fragments of the body of he (or she) who whould detain me.

It repenteth me not that my summons doth ride upon the blasting winds
which multiply the sting of my bitterness; And grant black slimy shapes
shall rise from brackish pits and vomit forth their pustulence into his
(her) puny brain.

I call upon the messengers of doom to slash with grim delight this
victim I have chosen. Silent is that voiceless bird that feeds upon the
brain-pulp of him (her) who hath tormented me, and the agony of the is
to be shall sustain itself in shrieks of pa in, only to serve as
signals of warning to those who would resent my being.

Oh come forth in the name of Abaddon and destroy him (her) whose name I
giveth as a sign.

Oh great brothers of the night, thou who makest my place of comfort,
who rideth out upon the hot winds of Hell, who dwelleth in the devil's
fane; move and appear: Present youselves to him (her) who sustaineth
the rottenness of the mind that moves the gi bbering gaggling tongue
and close his (her) throat, Oh Kali; Pierce his (her) lungs with the
stings of scorpions. Oh Sekhmet: Plunge his (her) substance into the
dismal void, Oh mighty Dagon:

I thrust aloft the bard of Hell and on its tines resplendently impaled
my sacrifice through vengeance rests:

     Hail Satan:
     Hail Satan:
     Hail Satan:

Now you take a few sips from the goblet.

Once you have completed the first half of the ceremony you are ready to
begin the second half. Before you do, however you must understand
several things. They are as follows: You must realize that all things
belong to the mighty Satan and that you can o nly have tempory use of
them. You must not be so vain-glorious as to think that you own
anything. You come into the world destitute of everything and go out of
it with nothing except character -- and some go with out that: While
you remain here you may bo rrow from Satan something or nothing
according to you manner of thinking.

Now you should go over to your bed and lie down on your back with your
arm stretched out by your side. Your legs should also be stretched out
and not crossed. Now in order to draw from the vast reserviour of
infernal power residing in out master you mus t guide your mind as
follows:

FIRST: Meditate and ask Satan if there is any reason why you should not
have the thing you desire to create.

This removes all uncertainty from your mind about the advisability of
creating it. Uncertainty produces a negative condition, disturbs your
aura and therefore delays the materialization of your creations. When
you have received the answer that is rig ht and proper for you to have
the thing you desire, you are then in a positive condition of mind and
can forcefully draw from Satans vast reservoir of infernal power.

SECOND: Having decided to create something make you mental picture of
it and demand it unfalteringly until it comes.

A person after having received a favorable answer from Satan often
commences his creations, but abandons them after a time because his
objective mind suggests that he may have been mistaken about his answer
from Satan and it is not best to continue w ith his demmands. Do not
listen to the suggestions from your objective mind, but once having
decided upon your creations go on with them to the end.

THIRD: A positive demand accomplishes more and better results than a
request or a petition.

The mental attitude while making a demand should always be reverential
but very positive.

FOURTH: Demand from Satan specifically what you want. Every word of
this rule is important. First you must make a demand. Then that demand
must be specific. Make your mental picture clear-cut. The clearer your
mental picture, the sooner it will material ize. Demand speifically
what you want -- not what some one else wants you to have, not what you
believe it is your duty to want -- but what you believe you yourself,
wish to have.

The converse of this rule is equally important. Never demand what you
do not want. If you want money do not demand work. Almost everyone
makes that mistake when the begin to make demands from Satan because it
is hard to break the customs of many year s. Diseased bodies and
unhappy conditions of mind are the result of selfish demands made to
our mighty master without proper patronage paid to him.

FIFTH: Only demand when your desire is strong.

When you feel the need of a thing , your desire for it is strongest.
Many followers of our leader begin enthusiastically to make their
demands, but soon grow lukewarm. A good way to intensify your desires
is to think of the pleasure the possession o f the thing would give
you, and when the desire for it comes sweeping over you then make a
demand for it. Do not demand only when the hour set apart for demanding
and paying homage to our lord Satan has come, or because you regard it
as duty you have assu med. Demands made under such conditions amount to
nothing, and the time put into work of this kind is wasted.

SIXTH: Mind works best when the body is still.

If you are drumming with your fingers or swinging your feet while
making demands, a part of your mental force goes into physical motions
you are making; and your forces being devided , the mental work is
robbed of much of its power. You should conser ve your force. At
intervals during the day you may think of your demands and you can hold
them sub-consciously in mind much of the time; and while this kind of
picture-making does not accomplish as much as when the body is at rest
it does help in increasi ng your ability to draw from the infernal
power of Satan.

SEVENTH: Never demand when excited.

You may have a strong desire but no excitement. A demand made during
intense excitement is always met forcefully. This is an important rule,
the observance of which may save you much inconvience. At times it is
quite likely that you may become impati ent and are tempted to make
postitive and often violent demands. It is a dangerous thing to do as
we shall show you through this illustration.

At one time we had a follower of CASH who had met with several
misfortunes. Disasters followed each other till everything he had on
the material plane was swept away. But after joing CASH he learned how
to make demands from Satan. He demanded ten tho usand dollars from
Satan, which to him was financial opulence. However the demand was not
met immediately, and our follower became impatient and finally angry.
And when he awakened one morning to find himself without money enough
to pay for his breakfast, he walked to the park, threw himself upon the
ground and lay there for several hours with his teeth set, hands
clenched and with perspiration standing out all over his body, so
intense was his excitement while making his demand for money he has
pictured.

The next day he boarded a freight train and after the usual delays and
inconveniences attending upon transporttion of that kind, out member
managed to reach a western town. But he had no sooner entered the place
than a cyclone came along and swept it off the face of the earth. When
our member came to consciousness he was lying on the ground some
distance from the place where he was at the last moment of his
recollections. His body was a mass of bruises, and when he tried to
rise to his feet he found one leg broken. Bodies of dead animals and
men lay around him and wagon loads of debris were strewn in all
directions; but just within reach of his arm lay a plethoric leather
wallet. Our member reachet his best arm out and got the wallet and
immediately exam ind its contents. There were just ten-one thousand
dollar bills in it and not a scrap of paper or card to tell whom it
belonged. He placed the money in his pocket of his ragged coat and
crept on his hands and knees for some distance till someone came to h
is relief. He was cared for and finally got well. The owner of the
money count not be found, and our member kept the money as an answer to
his violent demand which nearly cost him his life.

We are not saying that our member caused the cyclone. But he was drawn
into it and suffered the horrors of it because of his own tempestuous
mental condition when making a demand which had to be met after the
manner that it was made.

EIGHTH: Always be deliberate and quiet but positivd when demanding help
from Satan.

Never demand in a hurry. Mental perturbation engendered by hurry,
delays Satans help in the materialization of your creation.

NINTH: Avoid speculating on the time when or the way in which your
demands will be met by Satan.

When you begin speculating about the ways and means by which your
demonstrations will come, immediately the infernal power of Satan
becomes scattered or divided and a repellent expectancy arises. There
is an expectancy that draws and also one that re pels. The quiet
expectancy, is helpful in drawing to you whatever you have demanded.
But the impatient expectancy of your objective mind is repellant
because it causes your aura to become disturbed and then nothing you
want can reach you.

For example: You have made a demand from Satan and have commenced to
wonder through whom Satan will fullfill your demand. Your objective
mind suggests Mr. Blank as the most probable person, and if you accept
the suggestion when you meet mr. Blank you are not mentally poised
because of your impatient expentancy. Mr. Blank feels your mental
condition and if he were inclined to form a business connection with
you he would hesitate and become uncertain because of your perturbed
condition; thus the ways a nd means that you expected to bring your
demonstration would not be used because of your repellant expectancy.
The member who violates this rule is likely to make bad investments

TENTH: Anger, discontent, envy and lack of self-control repel and delay
a demand.

If you make a mental picture of a thing and hold it for a long time it
will materialize, but it will be delayed if you indulge in any of the
mental attitudes just mentioned; because any of these puts your aura
into a perturbed condition, which is rep ellant.

This rule is one of the hardest to observe but like anything else it
can bve followed. It is the disregard of this rule which leads
investigators and beginners to disbelieve in the infernal power of
Satan and which makes too many followers of the alm ighty Satan finally
abonden in despair their efforts to tap a part of this tremendous
generator of power.

ELEVENTH: The earnestness with which a demand is made, the frequency
with which it is made and the persistency with which the mental image
is consciously held in mind hastens the demonstration. The earnestness,
the frequency and the persistency of your demands and concentration
draw it faster and faster. Never destroy a mental picture.

TWELVETH: The realization that you are using an immutable law hastens
your demands from Satan.

THIRTEENTH: After your creation is made and you have demanded it the
declaration, "Satan has met my demand"' hastens the material
manifestation of the demonstration.

Once you have understood the above mentioned rule you are well on your
way towards drawing from the infernal powers of the mighty Satan.
However you must understand that you must as well work mentally in
order to acomplish what ever you desire. Remember , results are
absolutely certain if all laws are complied with.

If you will but persist in your faith in Satan and continue to practice
the procedure we have outlined there can be no limit to your
possablities. If you can get Satan to demonstrate a piece of carpet
three feet long you can get him to demonstrate a mil lion dollars for
you. If he can cure a headache, in the course of time he can cure any
disease; if he can get you a seat in a streetcar he can get you a seat
in the congress in the course of time. The more you follow and serve
him the more he will do for you.

It rests with you wheather you will or you will not serve him. There
are some of you who will. There is always a percentage of persons who
succeed and a percentage of persons who give up. Each of you can do
with your knowledge what you choose. However t his much is true, if you
persist for one year to consciously help Satan you can be sure that at
the end of the year your environment will be sufficiently better and
demonstrations will have been made to prove to you that you are dealing
with the infernal power of the mighty Satan:

Looking forward to hearing from you and all your new accomplishments:

         HAIL SATAN!



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
