   *********************************************************************
                        ***-   MIGHT IS RIGHT   -***
                           **********************

                                   * * *
I.
        In this arid wilderness of steel and stone, I raise up my voice
that you may hear. To the East and to the West I beckon. To the North and
to the South I show a sign proclaiming: Death to the weaklings, wealth to
the strong!
        Open your eyes that you may see, O men of mildewed minds; and
listen to me, ye laborious millions!
        For I stand forth to challenge the wisdom of the world - to
interrogate the "laws" of man and of "God".
        I request reason for your golden rule, and ask the why and
the wherefore of your Ten Commands.
        Before none of your printed idols do I bend in acquiescence,
and he who saith "thou shalt" to me is my mortal foe.
        I demand proof over all things and accept with reservations even
that which is true.
        I dip my forefinger in the watery blood of your impotent, mad
redeemer and write over his thorn-torn brow  "The true prince of Evil - the
king of the Slaves!"

        No hoary falsehood shall be a truth to me; no cult or dogma shall
encramp my pen.
        I break away from all conventions. Alone, untrammelled. I raise up
in stern invasion the standard of the strong.
        I gaze into the glassy eye of your fearsome Jehovah and pluck him
by the beard; I uplift a broadaxe and split open his worm-eaten skull.

        I blast out the ghastly contents of philosophic whited sepulchers
and laugh with sardonic wrath!
        Then reaching up the festering and varnished facades of your
haughtiest moral dogmas, I write thereon in letters of blazing scorn: "Lo
and behold all this is fraud!"
        I deny all things! I question all things!
        And yet! And yet!
        Gather round me, O ye death-defiant, and the Earth itself shall be
thine, to have and to hold.


II.
        Behold the crucifix; what does it symbolize? Pallid incompetence
hanging on a tree.

        All ethics, politics, and philosophies are pure assumptions. They
rest on no sure basis. They are but shadowy castles in the air erected by
day-dreamers, or by rogues, upon nursery fables. It is time they were firmly
planted upon an enduring foundation. This can never be accomplished until
the racial mind has first been thoroughly cleansed and drastically
disinfected of its depraved, alien, and demoralizing concepts of right and
wrong. In no human brain can sufficient space be found for the relentless
logic of hard fact, until all pre-existing delusions have been finally
annihilated. Half measures are of no avail; we must go down to the very
roots and tear them out even to the last fibre. We must be like nature,
hard cruel, relentless.

        To long the dead hand has been permitted to sterilize living
thought. Too long right and wrong, good and evil have been inverted by
false prophets. In the days that are at hand, neither creed nor code must
be accepted upon authority - human, superhuman, or "divine". Morality and
conventionalism are for subordinates. Religions and constitutions and all
arbitrary principles, every mortal theorem, must be deliberately put to the
question. No moral dogma must be taken for granted, no standard of
measurement deified.There is nothing inherently sacred about moral
codes.Like the wooden idols of long ago, they are all the work of human
hands; and what man has made, man can destroy.
        He who is slow to believe anything and everything is of great
understanding, for belief in one false principle is the beginning of all
unwisdom.The chief duty of every new age is to upraise new men to determine
its liberties, to lead it towards material success - to rend the rusty
padlocks and chains of dead customs that always prevent healthy expansion.
Theories and ideals and constitutions that have meant life, hope and
freedom for our ancestors may mean destruction, slavery, and dishonor to
us. As environments change, no human ideal standeth sure.
        Whenever, therefore , a lie has built unto itself a throne, let it
be assailed without pity and without regret; for under the dominance of a
inconvenient falsehood, no nation can permanently prosper. Let established
sophisms be dethroned, rooted out, burnt, and destroyed- for they are a
standing menace to all true nobility of thought and action.Whatever alleged
"truth" is proven by results to be but an empty fiction, let it be
unceremoniously flung into the outer darkness, among the dead gods, dead
empires,dead philosophies and other useless lumber and wreckage.
        The most dangerous of all enthroned lies, is the holy, the
sanctified the privileged lie - the lie that everyone believes to be a
model truth. It is the fruitful mother of all other popular errors and
delusions. It is hydra-headed. It has a thousand roots. It is a social
cancer. The lie that is known to be a lie is half- -eradicated. But the lie
that even intelligent persons regard as a sacred fact - the lie that has
been inculcated around a mother's knee - is more dangerous to contend
against than a creeping pestilence. Popular lies have ever been the most
potent enemies of personal liberty. There is only one way to deal with
them: Cut them out, to the very core, just as cancers are. Exterminate them
root and branch, or they will surely eat us all up. Annihilate them, or
they will us. Half and half remedies are of no avail.
        However, when a lie has gone to far - when it has taken up its
abode in the very tissue, bones, and brains, of a people, then all remedies
are useless. Even the lancet is of no avail. Repentance of past misdeeds
cannot "save" decadents from extermination. The fatal bolt is shot, and
into the fiery furnace of wholesome slavery they must go, to be there
righteously consumed. From their ashes something new, something nobler, may
possibly evolve; but even that is the merest optimistic supposition.
        In nature the wages of sin are always DEATH. Nature does not love
the wrong doer, but endeavors in every way to destroy him. Her curse is on
the brow of the "meek and lowly".Her blessing is on the very heart's blood
of the strong and the brave. Only Jews and Christs and other degenerates
think that rejuvenation can ever come though law and prayer. "All the tears
of the martyrs" might just as well have never have been shed.


III.                            
        "Love one another", you say, is this the supreme law. But what
power has made it so? Upon what rational authority does the gospel of love
rest? Is it even possible of practice, and what would result from its
universal application to active affairs? Why should I not hate mine enemies
and hunt them down like the wild beasts they are? If I "love" them, does
that not place me at their mercy? Is it natural for enemies to "do good"
unto each other? And what is "good"? Can the torn and bloody victim "love"
the blood-splashed jaws that rend him limb from limb? Are we not all
predatory animals by instinct? If humans ceased wholly from preying upon
each other, could they continue to exist?
        "Love your enemies and do good to them that hate you and
dispitefully use you" is the despicable philosophy of the spaniel that
rolls upon its back when kicked. Obey it, O reader, and you and your
posterity to the tenth generation shall be irretrievably and literally
damned.They shall be hewers of wood and carriers of water: degenerates,
Gibeonites. But hate your enemies with a whole heart. If a man smite you on
one cheek, smash him down! Smite him hip and thigh for self-preservation is
the highest law.
        He who turns the other cheek is a cowardly dog - a Christian dog.
        Give him blow for blow, scorn for scorn, doom for doom - with
compound interest liberally added thereunto! Eye for eye, tooth for tooth -
aye, four-fold, a hundred-fold! Make yourself the Terror to your adversary;
and when he goeth his way, he will possess much additional wisdom to
ruminate over. Thus shall you make yourself respected in all the walks of
life, and your spirit- your immortal spirit - shall live: not in an
intangible paradise, but in the brains and thews of your aggressive and
unconquerable sons. After all, the true proof of manhood is a splendid
progeny; and it is a scientific axiom that the timid animal transmits
timidity to its descendants.
        If men lived "like brothers" and had no powerful enemies to
contend with and surpass, they would rapidly lose all their best qualities
- like certain oceanic birds that lose the use of their wings because they
do not have to fly from pursuing beasts of prey. If all men had treated
each other with brotherly love since the beginning, what would have been
the result now? If there had been no wars, no rivalry,no competition, no
kingship, no slavery, no survival of the toughest, no racial extermination,
truly what a festering "hell fenced in" this old globe would be!


IV.
        If this struggle is ordained of us, why not enter into it with
kindly courage, with dauntless delight? Why not go forward daring all
things, to conquer or to die? Is it not better to perish than to serve?
"Liberty or Death" is not a meaningless phrase. No, it is of tremendous
import to those who - comprehend.
        What is death that it should make cowards of us all? What is life
that it should be valued so highly? There are worse things than death, and
among them is a life of dishonor. All men lead dishonorable lives that
serve a master with hand or brain.
        Life itself is but a spark in  the gloom  that flashes out and
disappears. Why therefore not make the most of it here and now,here and
now! There is no "Heaven of glory bright", and no hell where sinners roast.
There is no right; there is no Wrong- nor God- nor Son - nor Ghost.
        Death endeth all for every man
        For every "son of thunder" :
        Then be a lion in the path,
        And don't be trampled under.
        For us there is no rest - no Kingdom of Indolence, either on this
Earth or beyond the skies- no Isles of the Blest- no Elysian Fields - no
garden of the Hesperides. NO! NO! All these magical legends are but
fanciful dreams - fiction of mortals of yore.
        Here and NOW is our day of torment! Here and NOW is our day of Joy!
Here and now is our opportunity! Choose ye this day, this hour, for no
redeemer liveth.
        Every attempt made to organize the future must necessarily
collapse. The present is our domain, and our chief duty is to take
immediate possession thereof upon strict business principles. Strive
therefore against them that strive against you, and war against them that
war against thine. Lay hold of shield and buckler or their equivalents;
stand up! Be a terrible one in thine own defense. Raise up also the
clenched hand, and stop the way of them that would persecute you. Say unto
thine own heart and soul: "I, even I, am my own redeemer."
        Let them be hurled back into confusion and infamy, who devise thine
undoing. Let them be as chaff before the cyclone, and let the Angel of
Death pursue them, nay, overtake them. In a pit they have hidden a trap for
thy feet; into that very destruction let them fall. Then, exultant, "sound
the loud timbrel". Rejoice! Rejoice! in thine own salvation. Then all thy
bones shall say pridefully, "Who is like unto me? Have I not delivered
myself by mine own brain? Have I not been to strong for mine adversaries?
Have I not spoiled them that would have spoiled me?"


V.
Blessed are the strong, for they shall possess the Earth.
Cursed are the weak, for they shall inherit the yoke.

Blessed are the powerful, for they shall be reverenced among men.
Cursed are the feeble, for they shall be blotted out.

Blessed are the bold, for they shall be masters of the world.
Cursed are the humble, for they shall be trodden under hoofs.

Blessed are the victorious, for victory is the basis of right.
Cursed are the vanquished, for they shall be vassals forever.

Blessed are the battle-blooded. Beauty shall smile upon them.
Cursed are the poor in spirit, for they shall be spat upon.

Blessed are the audacious, for they have imbibed true wisdom.
Cursed are the obedient, for they shall breed creeplings.

Blessed are the iron-handed; the unfit shall flee before them.
Cursed are the haters of battle; subjugation is their portion.

Blessed are the death-defiant; their days shall be long in the land.
Cursed are the feeble-brained, for they shall perish amidst plenty.

Blessed are the destroyers of false hope; they are true messiahs.
Cursed are the God-adorers; they shall be shorn sheep!

Blessed are the valiant, for they shall obtain great treasure.
Cursed are the believers in good and evil, for they are frightened by
   shadows.

Blessed are those who believe in nothing; never shall it terrorized their
   minds.
Cursed are the "lambs of god" they shall be bleed "whiter than snow".

Blessed is the man who has powerful enemies they shall make him a hero.
Cursed is he who "doeth good" unto others; he shall be despised.

Blessed is the man whose foot is swift to serve a friend; he is a friend
   indeed.
Cursed are the organizers of charities; they are propagators of plagues.

Blessed are the wise and brave, for in the struggle they shall win.
Cursed are the unfit, for they shall be righteously exterminated.

Blessed are the sires of noble maidens; they are the salt of the Earth.
Cursed the mothers of strumous tenderlings, for they shall be shamed.

Blessed are the mighty-minded, for they shall ride the whirlwinds.
Cursed are they who teach lies for truth and truth for lies, for they are -
   abomination.

Blessed are the unmerciful; their posterity shall own the world.
Cursed are the famous wiselings; their seed shall perish off the Earth

Thrice cursed are the vile, for they shall serve and suffer.

                                 * - * - *

                           Typed in by [unknown]
                      Edit by Graeme Wilson (O.L.H.P.)

If you want more info on any OLHP productions or want more info on
Satanism, contact me via the following computer networks:

        Fidonet:  3:770/505
                  (Southern Vortex BBS, ph: +64 0-3-454-3900, 14.4k modem)
        Usenet:   fenris@otago.ac.nz

Also I may be contacted on other NZ BBS's:

        Alternative Reality: +64 0-3-471-0414
        Southern Lights:     +64 0-3-455-6016
        The Left Hand Path:  +64 0-3-454-5763 (my own BBS)
        Bad Dreams BBS:      +64 0-9-528-3577 (leave message to 'Lucifer')

If you wish to contact me via mail to swap texts, ideas, etc. then write
to:

                              Graeme Wilson
                              129 Scott Street
                              Waverley
                              Dunedin
                              South Island
                              New Zealand

