                             Quotes To Ponder

  "Evil personified appears at first sight repulsive.But the more we study
the personality of the Devil, the more fascinating it becomes.  In the
beginning of existence the Evil One is everything bad, evil and immoral.
He is hatred, destruction, and annihilation incarnate, and as such he is
the adversary of existence, of the Creator, of GOD.  The Devil is the rebel
of the cosmos, the independent in the empire of the tyrant, the opposition
to uniformity, the dissonance in the universal harmony, the exception to
the rule, the particular in the universal, the unforeseen chance that
breaks the law; he is the individualizing tendency, the craving for
originality, which bodily upsets the ordinances of God that enforce a
definite kind of conduct; he overturns the monotony that would permeate the
cosmic spheres if every atom in unconscious righteousness and with pious
obedience slavishly followed a generally prescribed course."
  Paul Caurus, The History of the Devil

  "The fact is that far more crime and child abuse has been committed by
zealots in the name of God, Jesus and Mohammed than has ever been committed
in the name of Satan.  Many people do not like that statement, but few can
argue it."
  Kenneth V. Lanning, FBI Report on Occult Crime, Oct. 1989

  "The Satanist does not weakly, meekly and humbly 'pray', he does not beg
to Satan, nor does he perform any knee-bending exercises or blood
sacrifices before him.  He recognises the god within and works to actualize
it.  His ceremonies and rituals are Satanic affirmations to evoke the
bowers of his own being, and draw upon energies which are only now being
recognised by the mundane science."
  Faustus Scorpius, Order of the Left Hand Path

  "Glory and praise to you, Satan, in the heights of heaven where once you
reigned, and in the depths of hell where, vanquished, you dream in silence.
Grant that my soul, some day, may rest beside you, under the Tree of
Knowledge, at the hour when on your brow, like a new Temple, its branches
will spread!"
  Baudelaire, The Litanies of Satan, 1846

  "Ware, nor for good nor ill, what aim hath act?
Without its climax, death, what savour hath
Life? an impeccable machine, exact
He paces an inane and pointless path
To glut brute appetites, his sole content
How tedious were he fit to comprehend
Himself! More, this our noble element
Of fire in nature, love in spirit, unkenned
Life hath no spring, no axle, and no end.
His body a blood-ruby radiant
With noble passion, sun-souled Lucifer
Swept through the dawn colossal, swift aslant
On Eden's imbecile perimeter.
He blessed nonentity with every curse
And spiced with sorrow the dull soul of sense,
Breathed life into the sterile universe,
With love and Knowledge drove out innocence
The Key of Joy is disobedience."
  Aleister Crowley, Hymn to Lucifer
