                    The Right Wing Left Hand Path
                    =============================
                                   
                                  By
                                   
                           Elizabeth Selwyn
                                   
              === From Black Flame Winter XXIV A.S. ===
                                   
 The connection between Satanism and Fascism in Britain is  well-known, 
 though  not  well-explained.  Nor  has it  been  understood  why  this 
 particular  malaise has not, in general, crossed the Atlantic.  Before 
 attempting to examine the reasons why British Satanism has for so long 
 been  stained by this association, it may clarify matters to  consider 
 in  some  detail  the major exponents of British  Satanism  and  their 
 political affiliations, past and present.
    
 The  name  Dark Lily is alleged to have been originated by  a  Satanic 
 group  in  the first decade of the present century. As far as  can  be 
 ascertained,  there  is only hearsay evidence for this, but  it  seems 
 irrelevant to the present study. The magazine Dark Lily first appeared 
 in  duplicated news-sheet format in 1977, allegedly the organ  of  the 
 Anglian Satanic Church - not to be confused (though it often was) with 
 the Anglo-Saxonic Church, which was Odinist and which will be  refered 
 to later.
    
 The  Anglican Satanic Church was run by Father Raoul Belphlegor  (yes, 
 that is how he spelled it), real name Thomas Victor Norris, and Mother 
 Lilith, real name Magdalene Graham. It claimed vast resources, numbers 
 and  magickal powers which would be bestowed on members in return  for 
 money  and/or  (in the case of young female members) sex.  Norris  had 
 earlier acquired a liking for brothel-keeping, involving his wife  and 
 daughters,  aged eleven and thirteen. On his release from  a  six-year 
 sentence resulting from this, he restored his fortunes with the aid of 
 a  rather  naive  eighteen-year-old (she was not  concerned  with  his 
 occult  activities and has since now made a new life for  herself,  so 
 her name will not be mentioned).  
   
 Norris'  Occult  involvement brought him into contact  with  Magdalene 
 Graham,  who  was  editing an Occult magazine on  broadly  LHP  lines. 
 Norris  persuaded her to take over production of his  magazines,  both 
 Occult and political (fascist), including the occasional news-sheet of 
 his Odinist Anglo-Saxonic Church (another paper organisation). Despite 
 holding  similar political views, Ms. Graham was, at first,  reluctant 
 to  be  associated  with  the disreputable  Norris,  but  was  in  the 
 vunerable  position of having just been diagnosed as suffering from  a 
 disabling illness and was desperately seeking a cure. That  particular 
 illness  is  subject  to  recession  and  Ms.  Graham  experienced  an 
 improvement  (presumably psychologically induced), which, for  a  time 
 convinced her.  
    
 She eventually became disillusioned and tried to leave. Impeded by her 
 physical  disability,  she sought help from a Satanist who was  not  a 
 fascist  (possibly  the  only representative of  that  rare  breed  in 
 Britain  at the time) and he eventually re-started the  magazine  Dark 
 Lily  as  the organ of non-political Satanism in  Britain.  Ms  Graham 
 remains  typist, sometimes designated editor, although it is  doubtful 
 whether she has executive powers It appears that she is now  convinced 
 that  Occultism  cannot be associated with  politics.  Certainly  Dark 
 Lily,  despite  its history, has, since coming under  new  management, 
 shown  no sign of political allegiances and has, in fact, warned  that 
 to divide one's energies between politics and Occultism means that one 
 will succeed at neither. 
    
 While   Dark   Lily  may  have  purged  itself,   the   same   cannot, 
 unfortunately, be said for a magazine called Fenrir (an Odinist  word) 
 produced by a Satanic group called the Order of the Nine Angles.  They 
 claim  an  ancient  pedigree,  but their  writings  appear  to  be  an 
 ill-digested  mixture of Satanism (on the Black Mass level),  fascism, 
 ("Roman  Salutes"  as  part of  the  ceremony!),  sado-masochism  (the 
 inevitable scourge), alchemy, ritual magick and a paranoiac insistence 
 that  they are the only upholders of the Satanic  tradition.  Although 
 referring to them in the plural, the effective long term membership of 
 the  Order  of the Nine Angles remains at one: a gentleman  who  calls 
 himself Anton (yes, really, Anton!) Long. His aliases include  Stephen 
 Brown, David Myatt and Algar Langton.
    
 The Order of the Nine Angles first appeared in Leeds in 1975, but  its 
 founder  was  rather more preoccupied with his  political  attachments 
 (the   now-defunct   National  Socialist  (Nazi)  Movement   and   its 
 successors), so the Occult aspect was not prominent. 
   
 The  magazine Fenrir first appeared in 1988; it will be noted that  it 
 is  dated in the Nazi tradition YF99 (Year of the Fuhrer).  Mr  Long's 
 other writings have included pamphlets  for Liberty Bell  Publications 
 (American  readers will presumably not require further explanation  of 
 the nature of such literary efforts), a Black Mass to commemorate  the 
 one-hundredth  anniversary of the birth of Adolph Hitler, and  various 
 rituals.  Mr  Long  is at present  experiencing  difficulty  with  his 
 publisher,  who  appears somewhat discouraged by the contents  of  the 
 rituals.
    
 We  referred  to the former National Socialist Movement and  must  now 
 introduce  another of the Occult luminaries of that  organisation,  Mr 
 David  Austin. Without digressing too far into the convoluted  history 
 of Fascism in Britain, the National Socialist Movement was founded  by 
 Mr  John  Colin  Campbell Jordan (generally known  as  Colin  Jordan). 
 Following  his  release from a prison term imposed  for  sedition,  he 
 changed  the  name of his organisation to  British  Movement.  Shortly 
 thereafter, Mr Jordan was fined for shoplifting a pair of ladies'  red 
 knickers   from  a  (Jewish-owned)  supermarket,  and   deposed   from 
 leadership of the BM. The new "fuhrer," Michael McLaughlin, instituted 
 his  own  little  knight  of the Long Knives to  remove  all  whom  he 
 considered  to be "perverts" from the BM (disregarding the  fact  that 
 this would leave him with only twenty-eight members) and David  Austin 
 was one of those booted out.
   
 Mr. Austin, whose previous history included several years as a  Mormon 
 "missionary,"  has since joined the U.S. based Temple of Set  and  was 
 formally ordained to their priesthood in May of 1989.
   
 There  are (unfortunately) other Satanic organisations in  Britain.  I 
 say  unfortunately because none appear to have escaped  the  political 
 adherence which bedevils (if one may use that word) British  Satanism. 
 However,  they are too small and ineffectual to be included  here  (if 
 they are getting ideas above their station, this may be considered  to 
 only a temporary reprieve).
    
 Let us now turn to the question of WHY. Yes, the Satanic question. Why 
 is a valid and highly potent way of life so often (on one side of  the 
 ocean,  at  least)  soiled  by  association  with  an  inadequate  and 
 life-denying political creed? To Occultists, Fascism may be defined as 
 the  new "English Disease," but the condition which has for  centuries 
 been so entitled is Masochism, and the two are closely related.
    
 It  has been said that those who hold anyone else to be worthless  are 
 really  projecting the fact they believe themselves to  be  worthless; 
 this  is demonstrably true. Even a brief acquaintance with  a  Fascist 
 will reveal that he/she suffers from a severe inferiority complex. The 
 phrase  "racial  masochism" is well-known. Most  right-wing  bookshops 
 used to sell (possibly they still stock it, we haven't checked lately) 
 a volume  purporting  to  explain  in  pseudo-medical   jargon   why 
 circumcision  is for the purpose of increasing virility. On  the  same 
 theme,  the  only  quotation that anyone can ever  remember  from  The 
 Protocols   of  the  Learned  Elders  of  Zion  is  the   contemptuous 
 description  of  the  Ayrian race as "hewers of wood  and  drawers  of 
 water."
   
 One must also survey the poseurs. The High Priest in his dramatic robe 
 or the Nazi in black uniform and jackboots. Where's  the  difference? 
 The answer is that the Satanist understands the real reasons why he is 
 "dressing  up;"  the  Nazi does not. The Nazi  is  not  intellectually 
 capable  of realizing that such trappings are a  masquerade,  utilized 
 for the  purpose of reinforcing an image when (in his case)  no  real 
 authority  exists.  Dominance  has  no  connection  with  threats   or 
 violence.  One  who  is in control does not need them;  in  fact  they 
 negate  potency.  The power comes from within himself and  it  has  no 
 visible  show;  especially not a form of apparel which  represents  an 
 external  conferring  of  jurisdiction,  or, in  some  cases,  is  the 
 semblance  of domination without any validity or competence.  In  such 
 circumstances,  a  uniform is a pretence, in the  manner  of  children 
 playing games. It reveals the psychological deficiencies of those  who 
 resort  to  fancy dress to augment their macho  appearance.  Yet  some 
 people   are   able  to  direct  others  and  order   action   without 
 accoutrement. This is the phenomenon known as the ability to  command. 
 You  want  an  example?  Look at a genuine Satanist.  To  some  of  my 
 readers, the direction may be re-phrased: look in a mirror. 
    
 Having  briefly refered to Odinism, it must be said that followers  of 
 that  path, in Britain, are, almost without exception,  Fascist.  This 
 aspect  of Occult political involvement is outside the scope  of  this 
 article. However, the digression on Odinism is merely for the sake  of 
 completeness.  The subject is Satanic Fascism and the question is  why 
 such  a  diversion should appeal to those who purport  to  be  seeking 
 Occult knowledge. To say that they are affected by masochism (which is 
 an  extraordinarily  powerful  sexual  motivation)  is  certainly  the 
 explanation  in  many  cases.  Alternative  answers  which  have  been 
 propounded are as follows: (A) that those who are politically-inspired 
 are  looking for something other than Occult power and  knowledge  and 
 are  attracted to the sinister image of Satanism; (B)  since  Fascists 
 naturally  expect to be hated, they gravitate to a theology  which  is 
 hated; (C) the proponents of the politics of fear are  subconsciously 
 seeking persecution.
    
 (To confuse the issue, it has been argued that Satanism has  more  in 
 common   with   Judaism,  especially  in  the  matter   of   suffering 
 persecution. Witch-burnings or gas chambers? How many million?)
    
 As an  afterthought, let us contrast the foregoing with  Dr.  LaVey's 
 clear  sighted  understanding that the Nazi's were capable  of  Lesser 
 Magic  and mind manipulation but with obvious limitations. He had  the 
 courage not to avoid this thorny issue, as shown in the Satanic  Bible 
 and elsewhere, but makes it plain that the Church of Satan will  never 
 succumb to "the English disease."
    