                        Satan's Charge
                             by
                           Sheryl

I wanted to share with y'all the following Charge of Satan, given to me by my
former High Priestess, who is a Black Witch (not a racial term) and Satanist.
It is very much similar to the Charge of the Goddess of the Wiccans (White
Witches). Although I don't know who wrote it, it is a very beautiful and
thought-provoking piece. You're welcome to use it or disregard it if you wish.


                The Charge of the Lord of Darkness:

        Listen to the words of the Great Lord of the Abyss,
        Who of old was called Satan, Lucifer, Belial, Leviathan,
        Pan, Kali, Loki, Shaitan, and by many other names:

                "I am your Genius, your Higher Self,
                 Your Spiritual consciousness.
                 I am your Guardian and your Savior.
                 Whenever ye have need of anything,
                 Ye shall assemble in some secret or
                 Deserted place, or in a church,
                 To invoke the Immortal Spirit
                 Of the Mighty and Ineffable King
                 Of Hell. For I am the Keeper of the
                 Secret Knowledge, And Mine is the
                 Chalice of Ecstacy, And Mine is the
                 Elixir of Life, Which is the Secret
                 Of Youth eternal. For I am the Ruling
                 Power preceding all that exists,
                 And I am the Judge and Ruler of the
                 Earth and of the Heavens. And I am
                 He that of Myself revealeth all
                 Revelations. And my Law is Do What
                 thou Wilt; Do unto others as they
                 Do unto You. O Mine enemies, Why
                 Do you deny me? O Children of Adam,
                 Deny Me Not! For in doing so You
                 Deny Thyself. For Whoever loves me
                 Loves Himself. Moreover, I shall
                 Place Power and Dominion upon all
                 Who follow my path."

        O Hear the words of the Great Spirit and Master,
        The dust of Whose feet lies upon the accursed Host
        Of Heaven, Whose body is made of Smokeless Flame:

   "I reside above the Great Outer Abyss. Yet I can show Myself to
    you, and I can converse with you. However, such communication
    is distorted by Space and Time, So that my truths are made
    flasehood, and my falsehoods are made truth. I become fixed so
    that you might know Me, but behold, My true nature is not fixed
    But ever changing. In the Secret of My Knowledge there is no
    God but Me. I prick the conscience of those who would make
    contact wwith Me. Mine is the still small voice that whispers
    Truth five times within the hearts of Men. I am both Chokmah
    (Masculine) and Binah (Feminine), For sex is not a limitation
    for Me. I appear Masculine to some, and feminine to others.
    In truth, I am neither Masculine nor Feminine, For sex is
    unknown to Me. Consider this: I am beyond sex. If but a spark
    of desire lies within your heart, then I may come to you and
    kindle in you the flame of Wisdom. Come to me, O descendants
    of Adam! Come on the road of ritual or upon the path of
    Magick. All roads lead to Me, For I am the centre of your
    Being. When you look within yourself, you will see me looking
    back at you. Consider this: To know your true Will, you must
    first know your True Self. For you and I are One. For I am
    that Force of Nature that gives Life unto all beings. From Me
    All things derive and unto Me they must return. Let my esoteric
    Knowledge be in the hearts of all those close to Me, and
    Behold my Magnificense. All Acts of Lust and Pleasure come
    from Me and these are My Rituals. I give power and happiness To my
    friends and sorrows and destruction unto mine enemies.
    For I am the All-Wise, The Mighty. Let there be Indulgence
    and Wisdom, Power and Strength, Honor and Pride within you.
    And all who seek Me, Know that your seeking and yearning
    will avail you not, unless you know the Mystery: For if that
    which you seek, you find not within yourself, you will never
    find it without. For behold, I have been with you from the
    beginning, and I am that which is attained at the end of
    desire."


                   YANKEE ROSE


