                           T H E   W A T C H E R
                           =====================

                  NEW ZEALAND VOICE OF THE LEFT HAND PATH

                  P.  O.  Box 38-262, Petone, Wellington
----------------------------------------------------------
November 1990CE XXV AS                                                  No.  5
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     ANTI-SATANIST HYSTERIA SPREADING

        NZ newspapers have recently carried a few items on 'Satanism' which
give us an inkling as to the nature of the hysteria that has been whipped
up in the USA by Christian preachers and their dupes in media and police
depts.
        The latter-day witch-hunt began in the USA with all manner of
stories of Satanic child abuse, ritual murder of animals and babies,
'infiltration' of day-care centres, etc.  These wild and weird allegations
were quickly picked up by sensationalist-mongering journalists and
talk-hosts who gave an instant and credible platform for all manner of
neurotics to parade before t.v.  audiences with their tales of how they had
been molested by Satanists as children.
        Despite the publicity that has been given to such allegations, and
the fervent Christian policemen who have made a personal crusade out of
combating the devil's disciples, an FBI study has concluded that the claims
are baseless.  Of course this does nothing to diminish the paranoid
delusions of Christians, nor does it hamper those who have made their
reputations and careers out of anti-Satanism, as can be deduced from the
article reprinted below relating to yoga classes being cancelled due to
fear of encouraging 'Satanism'!
        Now the anti-Satanist lunacy is spreading to England and South
Africa.  At least the police in England appear to be made of stuff more
rational than their counterparts in the USA and South Africa.
        Several newspaper reports have reached us from SA showing that the
embryonic witch-hunt there is taking on truly idiotic proportions.  The
Sunday Tribune (10 June 90) and Personality (14 May 90) have reported on
the testimony of an ex-High Priest (isn't everyone?) named Peter.  Among
Peter's revelations are that in most sects it's the rule to sacrifice
humans, and that high-ranking members of the military and judiciary are
involved.  At coven meetings a demon appears in the form of a shadow, and
of course sex and drug orgies are engaged in, including the centuries-old
past-time of copulating with demons.  The latter appear in half-man,
half-animal form, naturally.  The focus on recruitment is in a 10-16 year
age bracket.  These young girls are sexually assaulted while drugged.
        Peter told Tribune that he was obliged to have sex with his mother,
the high priestess, as part of his initiation.  On the other hand, Peter
states to Personality that his mother was and is 'a big Christian' who knew
nothing of his Satanic involvement.  (The Devil certainly has poor Peter
mixed up).  Nevertheless, his story is treated with the utmost seriousness
by these papers, and by his Church congregation, for Peter has now been
saved by Jesus.
        A Freudian analyst would have a field-day here:  a classical
Oediups complex; incestuous, cannibalistic and paedophiliac fantasizing;
the need for public recognition and belonging.
        Personality also features the good workers of Major Jonker,
commanding officer of the East Cape Murder & Robbery Unit.  His stories are
almost as bizarre as poor Peter's, despite his responsible position.  His
story begins with hysterical schoolgirls enslaved by Satan, and the heroic
Major discovering the HQ of the Satanist church in SA.
        The girls, having been introduced to the Satanic cult, steal Bibles
from their school and rip them up (some torn pages accompany the article as
documentary evidence).  The girls tell the Major that they can't sleep at
night; the high priest appears at their bedroom windows (in one case three
stories up).
        Visiting the high priest's black painted house, he confiscates (on
what grounds we're not told) black candles.  Placing these on top of a
'witch-craft' book in a cupboard, the Major "was amazed to see that the
candles had burned two neat holes in the plastic cover containing the
book."
        The Major's heroic battle against the hordes of Hell has given him
nationwide attention, and he is campaigning for legislation to ban
Satanism.  "Although there are many factors that attract young people to
this awful cult, there is only one way out - and that is to return to the
Christian faith," pontificates the Major.

        "The fact is that far more crime and child abuse has been committed
by zealots in the name of God, Jesus and Mohammed than has ever been
committed in the name of satan.  Many people don't like that statement, but
few can argue with it.
        "The author has discovered that the facts of so-called 'satanic
crimes' are often significantly different from what is described at law
enforcement training conferences or in the media.  The actual involvement
of satanism or the occult in these cases usually turns out to be secondary,
insignificant, or nonexistent.
        "After all the hype and hysteria is put aside, the realization sets
in that most satanic/occult activity involves the commission of NO
crimes..."
-K.V.  Lanning, Satanic, Occult, Ritualistic Crime:  A Law Enforcement
Perspective, national Centre for the Analysis of Violent Crime, FBI
Academy, Va., Oct 1989.

Refs: Christchurch Star, Wednesday, September 19, 1990 - Satanic abuse
        probe
      Evening Post, 8/9/90 - Practice of yoga linked to devil cult
      The Evening Post, Tuesday, October 9, 1990 - Church warning as
        hysteria grows in UK over Satanic cults

        [articles were originally re-printed in The Watcher, but have been
        omitted for convenience]

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         THE LAW of the FORBIDDEN

THE SECRET LIFE OF A SATANIST
by Blanche Barton

        Anton Szandor LaVey has been called "the most dangerous man in the
world," "a charlatan," an "evil genius." What secrets lurk within the man
who shaved his head on Walpurgisnacht, 1966, and declared the formation of
the Church of Satan?
        Written with the cooperation of her mysterious subject, Barton's
fascinating biography reveals what has previously been hidden from public
view, including:  the dark origins of Satanic ritual; LaVey's early career
as hoodlum, carny, lion tamer, burlesque house musician, and ghost hunter;
LaVey's erotic involvements with Marilyn Monroe and Jayne Mansfield.
Includes many pages of rare photos, and previously unpublished essays and
documents by Anton LaVey.  $19.95 (Cloth) ISBN:  0922915-03-2

                      ALSO AVAILABLE FROM FERAL HOUSE

The Magician's Dictionary:  An Apocalyptic Cyclopaedia of Advanced
Magic(k)al Arts & Alternate Meanings by E.  E.  Rehmus.  "Surprising and
delightful.  I am learning from the book, something I have not said of
anything since Cosmic Trigger and Valis." - Frater Belarion, Abrasax.
$12.95 ISBN:  0922915-01-6

Apocalypse Culture edited by Adam Parfrey.  Big new edition.
"Extraordinary...  unlike anything I have ever encountered." - J.G.
Ballard.  $12.95 ISBN:  0922915-05-9

                                FERAL HOUSE
           P.O. BOX 861893  *  Los Angeles  *  CA  *  90086-1893
(Add $1.50 per book for shipping.  Send S.A.S.E.  for newsletter/catalogue.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BOOK REVIEW
        The Secret Life of a Satanist:  The Authorised Biography of Anton
LaVey, by Blanche Barton (Feral House 1990).
        Barton is uniquely placed as LaVey's confident and secretary to
write his biography.
        In the opening chapter we are told that LaVey was born on 11 April
1930, in the sign of the horned ram, Aries, His ancestry is a mixture of
French, Alsatian, German, Russian, Roumanian, Gypsy and Jewish.
        By the age of 7 he was fascinated with the occult and supernatural,
consulting his Jewish-Gypsy grandmother for illumination on what he read,
who related to him the tales of her folk.  Unsatisfied with the usual
grimoires and popular occult authors, he found the most valuable sources to
be those dealing with practical hypnosis, and the utilization of imagery,
and the tales of Lovecraft, et al.
        Although an individualist, LaVey's leadership qualities were
recognized by other boys.  School did not provide for the subjects which
really interested him, and was a place to escape from.
        Since 5 his musical aptitude was recognised and at 15 LaVey was
playing for the San Francisco Ballet symphony Orchestra as second oboist.
In the same year he dropped out of High school, hanging around poolhalls,
in the company of gamblers, pimps, prostitutes, hustlers and pool sharks.
He delighted in the incongruity of looking like a 'hood' while continuing
to pursue his interests in painting, music, magic and philosophy.
        Assisting his uncle in business at the newly emerging Las Vegas,
LaVey came to know such underworld figures as Bugsy Seigel and his
lieutenants, who imparted their social philosophy to him:  Everything is a
racket, including the Church.  The superior man recognizes these facts and
uses the rackets to work for himself rather than being a slave to others
and a conventional life.
        Feeling his alienation from the norm, LaVey sought out a suitable
environment and considered both the Foreign Legion and the circus.  He
chose the latter.  In 1947 he became a cage boy; at 17 he was performing
with 8 Nubian lions and 4 Bengal tigers.  He also became a master player of
the calliope and various obscure instruments, and began to learn the magic
effects of music on both animals and people.  LaVey became and remained a
legend among some of the great stars of the circus.  He also came to know
the revival preachers, who latched on to the circus, as con-men, and saw
the carnal as the dominant influence on people, despite whatever dose of
religion they are threatened with.
        As a police photographer he was confronted with the worst aspects
of human nature, and concluded that there is no personal god who cares for
humanity.  Man must be his own god, and take responsibility for his own
actions.
        LaVey realized the need not of a Holy Father, but of a 'rebellious
brother'; that progress had been achieved by those who rebelled against
God, Church and convention.  Satan had been the rebellious figure who had
traditionally defied the gods to bestow wisdom to mortals.
        LaVey was assigned to investigate the 'crank' calls for the police,
those strange noises coming from the cellar and the like.  He also utilized
his abilities as a hypno-therapist, and eventually clients began to ask him
for more esoteric forms of help such as charms and spells.
        With his odd pursuits and pet leopard he was by this time already
attracting the attention of the media.
        Influential and eccentric friends met a LaVey's 'Black House' for
informal discussions and from this emerged the Magic Circle.  This became
more formalized, with LaVey performing rituals and opening his House to the
public for seminars.
        In 1966 the Church of Satan was formed from these activities.
        From the mid-70s LaVey withdrew from public life, leaving his
daughters and others to deal with the interviews and lectures, to
concentrate on other fields of Satanic pursuit.
        LaVey sees magical potency in isolation from the mainstream, and
remains reclusive.  He defines Satanists as those rare individuals who
instinctly stand aloof from the mass in thought, lifestyle and cultural
taste.
        Music continues to be a predominant factor in his life, as does
interest in old cinema and the production of 'humanoids'.
        The latter are considered a major project for satanism, and the
next great consumer industry.  They are LaVey;s answer to a number of human
problems; artificial companions, which will give man's creativity and
fantasy free-reign, rather then being programmed by t.v.
        LaVey believes that Satanism will become the major religion in the
USA, and points to the idolization of Satan by increasing numbers of youth
as the 'Rebel King'.  He believes that the current anti-Satanist hysteria
whipped up by christians will back-fire, as people start questioning their
idiotic allegations and asking what Satanism really stands for.
        "No one ever 'gets to know' Anton LaVey", writes Barton.  "If
you're lucky you glimpse enough to know you don't know much about him."

Fire & Ice:  Magical Teachings of Germany's Greatest Secret Occult Order by
Dr S Edred Flowers, Llewellyn Publications, Mn.  1990, 215pp.
        Dr Flowers is a scholar and author of international repute, best
known for his works on German occultism and the runes.
        He is also a leading initiate of the Temple of Set, and has
dedicated this book to Re-en-Set, acknowledging the assistance of, among
others, Dr Aquino and James Lewis of the Temple.
        The book deals with the hitherto little-known Brotherhood of
Saturn, from its inception in 1926 to 1970, after which its ritual and
philosophy was reformulated.  Dr Flowers draws on the Brotherhood's
previously secret documents, brought to light in 1970 as the result of an
internal dispute, and was assisted in his research by several saturnians.
        Fire & Ice is the only book in any language on the Fraternitas
Saturni (FS).  Its cosmology is a Luciferian-Gnostic one, the basis of
which is the planet Saturn upon which are concentrated the Luciferian and
Satanic 'higher and lower octaves' respectively, which influence the Earth
and govern the Aeon of Aquarius (along with Uranus).
        The FS initiates concentrate upon the Luciferian 'higher octave',
regarding Lucifer as the Light bearer unto mankind.  Saturn is the Guardian
of the Threshold between man and godhead which the aspirant achieves
through gnosis.
        The astrological characteristics of Saturn are:  practical,
cautious, constructive, responsible, patient, ambitious, thrifty, reliable
and self-disciplined.  Negatively:  mean, narrow-minded, severe, aloof,
dogmatic, heartless, and cruel.  Some of the Saturnian characteristics were
taken over by Uranus, which is humanitarian, friendly, kind, independent,
original, inventive, strong-willed, versatile, loathing restriction.
Negatively:  eccentric, perverse, rebellious.
        A synthesis of these characteristics gives the Saturno-Uranian
complex which comprise FS philosophy.
        Saturn is held to be the Great Judge and carrier of reason and
intelligence.  Saturnus breaks cosmic order and stasis, causing
regeneration and change.  He is equated with Prometheus and the Genesis
Serpent, the giver of knowledge (gnosis) to mankind.
        The FS was formally established in 1928 by Gregor A Gregorius and
other initiates of the Pansophical Lodge and OTO.  The FS founders included
those within the German OTO who accepted Crowley's Thelema; however the FS
retained independence from both Crowley and the OTO.  To the Crowleyan "Do
what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law; Love is the Law, Lover under
will" the FS added the words "compassionless love".  Dr Flowers states that
this reflects the Saturnians "Thelemic-Nietzschean" philosophy, a severe,
pityless self-overcoming on the path to individual godhood.  A Nietzschean
solitude was also cultivated; an aloofness from the masses.
        The FS was organised along Masonic lines, and comprised a synthesis
of OTO/Tantric sex-magick, gnosticism, Thelema, astrology, alchemy,
Rosicrucianism and the traditions of various religions.
        Dr Flowers provides several rites of the FS, including the
'notorius' sex rite of Gradus Pentalphae, only alluded to by others.
        (NZ readers order from:  Pathfinder Books, Old Customhouse, Auck.).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Brimstone, in cooperation with KaliYuga Productions presents:
The Silver-mirrored Pentagram on Black Disk (9 inches in diameter). An
absolute MUST for any Satanic altar!
Only $US19.95 + $4.00 shipping from:
Brimstone Productions P.O. Box 660, Marstons Mills, MA 02648, USA

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      ZEALOTS PUSHING FOR ARMAGEDDON
                           By Elisha ben Azazel

        In early October Zionist Zealots (ZZ) attempted to lay the
foundation stone for a synagogue on the site of the Dome of the Rock and
the Aqsa Mosque.  This site is the third holiest in Islam, from whence
Mohammed is said to have ascended to heaven.
        The Israeli Army, backed by the Government, responded by killing
Palestinians demonstrating against the Orthodox Jews responsible.
        Considering the ferment Islam is already in over the annexation of
Kuwait by Iraq and the consequent Western move into Saudi Arabia (where
Mecca is situated) this action by the ZZ can only be viewed as a calculated
provocation of Islam.  The motive is clear:  to force a religious war
between Moslem and Jew in the belief that the Jews will mobilize behind the
ZZ and their plans for an Israeli Reich.
        This is not conjecture.  The ZZ have been open about their
intentions for a century.  Whoever thinks that the ZZ are content with a
little chuck of land in the midst of Arabia is ill-informed.  According to
the Torah the promise of Jehovah to Abraham was that his descendants will
inherit the lands between the Nile and the Euphrates.  Zionism was created
to fulfill the Jehovic covenant politically.
        In 1948 A Abrahams, political advisor of the Zionist World
Revisionist Executive, declared:  "We must regard ourselves as the mighty
nation that we are and not as the third rate state conditioned by the small
territory we at present hold.  We shall triumph and shall be restored in
full strength and power...  the return of all Israel to the whole of the
land of Israel."
        In 1952 Gen.  Dayan stated:  "Our task consists of preparing the
Israeli Army for the new war approaching in order to achieve our ultimate
goal, the creation of an Israeli Empire."
        In 1969 Dayan predicted that Israel would extend beyond Jordan and
into central Syria.  (London Times, 25 June 1969).

DOME OF THE ROCK
        The ZZ have coveted the site of The Dome from the start.
        In 1967 the Israeli Army entered Jerusalem, the Army's Rabbi, Goren
held a religious service in front of the Mosque, and the Israeli flag was
hoisted.
        The ZZ have long declared their aim to be the rebuilding of the
Temple of Solomon on the site, and have published plans and photographs of
the model.
        In 1929 Klosner, president of the Society for the Defence of the
Wailing Wall, wrote:  "The Aqsa Mosque is situated on the sanctuary of
sanctuaries in the Temple and it belongs to the Jews." (Palestine Weekly, 6
Aug.  1929).
        On the 8 Aug.  1929 the Jerusalem daily Dowar Hayoum published a
statement by Grand Rabbi Ishaq Cook before a Jewish rally at Jerusalem:
"Jewish youth demonstrated their Macabi Military strength.  They are ready
to sacrifice their lives in order to redeem their holy temple at present
occupied by the Aqsa Mosque."
        That year ZZ tried to capture the Mosque.  Another attempt was made
during the 1948 war; the area of the Mosque was bombarded.
        In 1969 a Christian Fundamentalist attempted to burn down the
Mosque.  This put the Moslem world in ferment, and no Arab Govt.  accepted
Israel's innocence in the matter.
        The leader of the Oct ZZ demonstration, Gershon Salomon, stated:
"The occupation of the Temple Mount by the Arabs must be finished."
        With Islam in ferment, and the Moslems (including the Palestinians)
responding to Iraq's call for a Jihad, the ZZ calculated that the time was
ripe to make a move on The Dome, provoking a Holy War of their own.  It
would also be assured that the West would be favourably disposed to ZZ
ambitions in its current anti-Iraqi state:  US troops in Saudi Arabia would
provide a shield.
        Fortunately, these is no longer super-power rivalry in the region,
since the fall of the Soviet Empire and the Russian economy.  However,
Islam may one day soon pose a new military threat to parts of Europe, as in
centuries part, and already have their potential fifth columnists and
terrorists throughout Europe in the form of a large Moslem immigrant
presence.
        Whether the Law goes forth from Zion or from Mecca, Satanists
should view with adversity the prospect of the unleashing of resurgent
religious fanaticism of the world-encompassing proportions.  A plague on
both their houses.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               PUBLICATIONS

Brimstone, quarterly journal of the Ancient Brotherhood of Satan.
Editor:  John Dewey.  Annual sub.  $US18.00.  Box 660 Marstons Mills, MA
02648, USA

Cry of the Raven, quarterly journal of the Church of the Raven.
Annual sub.  $US15.00 from:  Night Owl, Box 321, Meredosia, Ill.  62665 USA

Dark Lily Quarterly.  Sub 6 Pounds overseas.  BCM Box 3406, London, WC1N
3XX England.

Exeat, a forum to explore the forbidden.  Sub.  10 Pounds; Overseas air,
$US35.  Thormynd Press, Box 4, Church Streeton, Shropshire, England.

Factsheet Five Reviews of anything & everything.  Sample $US 3.00, overseas
$7.  6 Arizona Ave.  Resselaer, NY 12144 USA.

The Black Flame, quarterly affiliated to Church of Satan.  Sub.  $US12.00;
Overseas $16.00.  Box 499, Radio City Station, NY, NY 10101-0499 USA.

To The Left, quarterly journal of Thee Ministry Ov Satanic Qabala (formerly
88 Temple Ov Deities).  Good source for rituals.  Sub.  by donation to:  A.
Souto, Box 4546 Miami Florida 33014-0546, USA.

Trident, Embassy of Satan, monthly.  Sub.  $US 36.00, Overseas $50.00.
Box 666 Whitehall, Pa.  18052, USA.

THEE TEMPLE OV PSYCHICK YOUTH European Station Bulletin, for a sample send
3 IRCs to:  Psychick Release PCP, PO Box 26067, S-10041 Stockholm, Sweden.

Fenrir - Journal of Satanism & The Sinister (Order of the Nine Angles)
Cheques payable to "Brekekk", P.O.  Box 109, Newport, Gwent NP6 1XZ Wales,
U.K.

                                    ---

        Rebecca Chandra Lance        A Wolf In Sheep's Clothing is the
              Rip Read               title of a tape produced by Black Sun
        Black Sun Productions        Productions, run by Priestess Lance
            P.O. Box 4090            and Adept Reed of the Temple of Set.
         Berkeley, CA 94704                  Their group is called The
                                     Children, dedicated to expressing
                                     the beauty of Satanism.
                                              The tape may be obtained from
                                     Black Sun Productions for $US8.00.

------------------------- LETTERS TO THE EDITOR ------------------------------

        Thanks for the letter you sent me.  It really raised questions in
my mind.  Yes, I deliberated intensely as to how I should answer your
question on what such terms as 'death' band and 'brutal death metal' mean.
You see, this term 'brutal death metal; has something to do with 'black
metal' music.  Though there do exist bands in the same style as us they are
not Satanic bands, and I felt that my acts belie my words.  And gradually
it dawned on me:  there is quite a big conflict with our lyrics and TRUE
Satanism.  And I'm referring to your brilliant editorial in The Watcher
(Sept.  1990CE) "Satan:  God or Anti-God?".  It was a most pleasant reading
experience, and contained the fundamental Satanic affirmations.  You say
that "the only 'god' the Satanist worships is his own Self, leading towards
a Godhead of our own conception." We do have a song, quite old though,
called 'Goat-Worship' on our 'Demonomancy' demo.  Yes, I emphasised 'old'
because nowadays we have started to recognise the god within in our lyrics.
Now we are into praising the absolute greatness and beauty of Satanism,
instead of worshipping Satan or anything else.
        Maybe our music could be consider 'black metal' but I can assure
you that our band BEHERIT doesn't have anything to do with the things you
mentioned (drunkeness, attempted suicide and animal sacrifice).  Why should
I call our music 'brutal' then?  It's just that the music we play is very
speedy, but suddenly it can turn into something we call 'doom'-part:  they
very heavy part.  So, one could say it is brutal.
        As for the term 'death metal', I think it is just one of those
stupid cliches that 'heavy metal' has been full of from the early bands of
the 70s.  Bands which play 'death metal' just seem to sing about death.  In
our case you could say we sing about the death of christianity, and the
label 'death band' is just a lousy joke; ignore it.
                                        Satanic Greetings
                                        Demon Ov Fornication
                                        Satanic Metal Temple, Finland

        Many thanks for your initial contact and for the copy of The
Watcher.  We're working towards the same goals (whatever they are...),
that's for sure!  Fraternal Greetings.
                        Vade Ultra! Hail Satan! Carl Abrahamsson,
                        Thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth, Sweden

        Thankyou for issues 3 & 4 of The Watcher.  Your articles, "Satan:
God or Anti-God?" and "Crime and Punishment" are lucid expositions.  You
might be interested in my article, "Eugenics:  the Orphaned Science," found
in the anthology Apocalypse Culture (Amok Press, 1987).
        Your refusal to be drawn into intra-fraternal squabbling is quite
admirable.  It's unfortunate that so many adherents of the left-hand path
are drawn to the dubious ego-enhancements of grandiose titles, petty power
plays, exclusive claims to the Truth, and other comedies straight out of a
Keystone two-reeler.
                        Hail! Hail! The Gang's All Here!
                        Adam Parfrey, Feral House, L.A.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       THEE TEMPLE OV PSYCHICK YOUTH

What we do and why we do it!

        We are composed of many Individuals, some more active, some less,
some very central, some distant.  As a Magickal Order, we will always be
furiously flexible and in a state of constant daring development.  What you
put in is what you get out.  Thee Temple Ov Psychick Youth is the sum of
its active Individuals.  If all, by chance, should suddenly become
interested in the very same topics, we would be representatives of those
specific interests or focal points, and if we turned to becoming more
scattered in our directions, we would be a multi-directional group.  To put
it simply:  It goes where You take it...
        There seem to be some common topics of interest within our league
of noble members, the main one being Magick in all its possible and
impossible manifestations.  A desire to improve oneself, one's abilities
and the Universe around you.  To turn the guilt-ridden, weak, fearing,
ultra-controlled piece of lead into lead into a shining, proud, brave, and
will-strong nugget of the purest gold.
        We believe that all repressive elements, whether they are social,
personal or whatever, should be seen as obstacles o your path that you
should seek to remove with Joy.  The Joy of Life, the Joy of Will, and the
Joy of Magick.  there are constantly "evil" forces at work, trying to
control you and ensnare you into the web of their will.  Never accept this!
They will claim being "good", when in fact they are "evil", and they will
keep you down by imposing anxiety and anguish in order to have their way
from the very first day of your Live!  Beware!
        The definition of "evil" must always be "that which is anti-you".
The definition of "good" must always be "that which is pro-you".  When
looking for "morals", seek "nature".  It's all very, very simple.  In fact,
so simple that most people seem to find it hard to grasp.  Most people
accept the "truth" from above.  Most people won't question the core of the
meaning of their own existence.  And if they should do so, they very rarely
change those things they find obstructive and repressive.  We, on the other
hand, do!
        We refuse control on every level there might possibly be.  It may
all sound very grandiose and pompous, but, in fact, it's actually true.  We
do this by indulging in the tasks, the thinking, the creativity, the
intelligence, the power, the love, the energy, the awareness and the
results that are all part of our Great Work!  You must be the Master of
Your Own Fate!  If you're not, then you can bet (your Life) that someone
else surely will be!
        In its present shape, T.O.P.Y.  is the most dynamic and extrovert
of today's Magickal Orders.  We are involved in many areas of what we call
"Occulture".  There is really no need for us to throw slogans in the face
of the rest of the World.  It is usually a very pointless and inefficient
technique of producing real, profound, change.  Every little think we do
though; each project, each event, each success, each new interested
Individual, is a magnificent triumph in itself, a proof to the Afterworld
that there was actually once intelligent Life on planet Earth.
        By action you change.  Action is the expression of confidence.
Confidence is the proof of Will, and strong Will is the fundamental quality
of the person who is really and truly free from the restrictions of other
people's views and manipulations.
        T.O.P.Y.  is a world-wide network with Stations (headquarters and
administrative offices), Access Points (local offices, providing
information and guidance to the interested) and Points of Information
(exactly that).  We are involved in bookpublishing, record and
tape-producing, cinema and video, public events and performances and many,
many other expression of 20th century culture.
        Since Thee Temple was founded in 1981 era vulgaris maximus, an
incredible amount of Work has been performed very successfully.  By trying,
you learn.  By learning, you Work.  By working, you grow.  By growing, you
gain experience.  Experience makes existence worthwhile, make the
Individual human, makes your path appear clearer and straighter.
Therefore:  Vade Ultra!
        We are, structurally, a non-hierarchic organisation.  We welcome
anyone who wants to put in intelligence, energy, Work and devotion.  If
there is such a thing as a hierarchy of respect in our expanding tribe, it
is based on the amount of Work actually put in.  Higher Levels of awareness
and devotion bring new and expanded frontiers of energy for you to use in
Your Own Great Work.
        Our Initiates, Kalis (Female) and Edens (Male), develop individual
Magickal systems, based on information and techniques from earlier
Initiates through the millennia.  Our Initiates are the strong backbone of
our Order, beautiful Individuals who have chosen to take control over their
circumstances and gradually learn how to direct the forces of Nature to
their own benefit.  It is the only way to go if one wants to be 100% human!
Otherwise, it sadly seems, one will always remain at least one part dog and
one part sheep...
        We hereby invite the rest of the World to participate in this
interesting and very well needed emancipation of the human Mind, Body and
Spirit through MAGICK - "the art and science of causing change to occur in
conformity with Will".  More information on the philosophies, activities,
products, events, subscription fees, etc., etc., etc.  of Thee Temple Ov
Psychick You Can be Obtained from:

In Europe:              In England:             In the U.S.A.:
Psychick Release PCP    T.O.P.Y.U.K.            T.O.P.Y.U.S.
P.O.Box 26067           c/o Rapid Eye           P.O.Box 18223
S-10041 Stockholm       P.O.Box 23              Denver
Sweden                  Brighton BN24AU         CO 80218
                        Great Britain           U.S.A.

        None of the above offices will reply unless you enclose three
International Reply Coupons, or, in case you reside in the country in
question, a sufficient amount of stamps (three times the regular letter
postage).

        In Light, L_OV_E, Life and Liberty - Fraternal Greetings from Eden
162, T.O.P.Y EUROPE STATION.
                            Vade Ultra!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           Temple of Set            |                BREKEKK
                                    |
The Temple of Set was incorporated  |  Fenrir - JOURNAL OF SATANISM AND
in 1975CE by Dr M.  Aquino and      |           THE SINISTER
other senior initiates of the       |  VOL.1:£10 - US$26 including Airmail
esoteric.  The Temple's philosophy  |
is based on the evolution of        |
individual psychecentric            |          FENRIR VOL II no. 1
consciousness towards its own       |             £2.50 - US$5
divinity through the deliberate     |
exercise of the intelligence and    |
will, a process of becoming         |      OPFER (FENRIR VOL II no. 2)
(Egyptian Xeper).  Write:  Box 4507 |             £3.50 - US$7
St.Louis, MO 63108 USA              |
                                    |        THE BLACK BOOK OF SATAN
                ---                 |     A Guide to Sinister Ceremonial
                                    |                Magick
   LEARN THE FACTS ABOUT SATAN!     |              £15 - US$36
                                    |
BRIMSTONE quarterly is a journal of |
The Ancient Brotherhood of Satan!   |                 NAOS
Be challenged by masters of         |  A Guide to Sinister Hermetic Magick
demonology & witchcraft!  See how   |              £18 - US$44
you fit in!  FREE DETAILS.          |
                                    |
Sample/$5.           1 yr./$18.     |   Note: None of the above items can
U.S. funds payable to:              |  be sold to anyone under the age of
          BRIMSTONE                 |   18 (UK) or 21 (USA). Please send
          P.O. Box 660              |       age statement with order.
          Marstons Mills            |
          MA 02648                  |         Checks etc payable to
BRIMSTONE...                        |  BREKEKK P.O.  Box 109, Newport,
Keeps the hellfires burning!        |  Gwent NP6 1XZ Wales UK.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            Satanic Priesthood

Make your parents proud...  become a Priest/ess.  Correspondence course in
Satanism.  For details send SAE (overseas, 3 IRCs) to Box 38-262 Petone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               THE DARK GODS

       "They lurk at the threshold of existence
        Preening their wings and eyes and sounds
        which they send forth to all who have
        ears to hear and minds to know.  And they
        wait and reside in the space between
        worlds, the space that is the corner of
        the meeting of dimensions.  They are the
        destroyers...  he bornless forever who
        wait for our call.  Soon they will come to
        collect that blood which is required by
        Them.  To understand Them is to pass that
        Abyss beyond which the man ceases to be."

                                The Message of the One of Thoth

        Much has been uttered - 'in shrivelled hallways untidy with the
Blackest Inventions' - concerning the entities/energies known as the Dark
Gods.  Hitherto, all information regarding 'They who will have Blood' has
consisted of misrepresentations and absolute rubbish.  q.v.  the works of
H.P.  Lovecraft, who intuitively grasped vague hints of the genuine Dark
Tradition, whilst presenting it within the context of the 'opposites' (as
with 'The Necronomicon' in its many hoax forms).  Those who wish to know
the Dark Gods are required to pass the Abyss - the experience of going
beyond 'opposites' - to understand what these energies are in essence (i.e.
they just ARE) and to remain sane and in one piece.
        From an uninitiated viewpoint, the Dark Gods are indeed the most
hideous and terrifying manifestations of the acausal on this causal plane.
Due to the Nazarene Tyranny establishing evolutionary regression, very few
can comprehend even the most remote hint of Chaos (or The Dark Gods) in its
primal state, i.e.  they do not perceive the essence hidden by appearance;
they are bound by 'moral projections'.  ('He is the damned, the baser for a
moral corrupt'.)
        While the Dark Gods may be perceived as 'convenient abstractions'
or Archetypal Energy, they may also be regarded as having an actual
existence (and it is up to the individual to decide which of these, or
neither, is the correct for him/herself).  The Dark Tradition, continued by
small numbers of Adepts since the Hyperborean Aeon to the present day,
contains many tales of the origins of the Dark Gods.  Whether one chooses
to see these as myth or mythos, is, at the end of the day, a matter of
personal taste according to which viewpoint is the most magickally useful.
        Previously, weakening a Star Gate (or nexion, a physical link
between the causal and acausal) and bringing the Dark Gods has involved
hideous rites of sacrifice and suffering, and in terms of results, vile
uncertainty principles.  Refined magickal techniques (such as the Rite of
Nine Angles) have replaced many of these bloody shamblings (the Blood
remains, mostly in menstrual form) and the Return of the Dark Gods is now
an easier proposition, both in terms of what can be done ceremonially,
hermetically and how mass Consciousness can be effected by Aeonic
techniques.  However, certain cases involving those who, unprepared and
otherwise, have attempted to bring the Dark Gods, have resulted in madness
and/or death.  Such events are always followed by the shedding of blood on
a larger scale - the Darkest of negations must have sustenance.  And is
bloodshed necessary anymore?
        Returning the Dark Gods will fulfill the Destiny (in its dying
form) of this Aeon - the Western, still about 350 years left to run- by
establishing the next Aeon, which has no word since it is Chaos itself.
This Aeonic progression has been a gradual opening of various acausal - or
magickal - centres on this terrestrial plane.  It is important to remember
that there never was a 'golden age' way back when from which the human race
toppled and has been trying to grovel back to ever since, armed with hints
of 'lost knowledge' constituting the various 'mysteries' (not in the Greek
sense of the word) we have today.  In one one sphere of evolution, we have
reached an intuitive stage - the culmination so far of the Aeonic
progression - where we can decide our own destiny.  For this reason, it is
generally agreed that the terrestrial centres are now exhausted - the new
Aeon may very well be 'Galactic' in form (either symbolically, i.e.
representing the forward looking nature of civilisation, or literally, the
consequence of the same).
        Establishing a forward looking civilisation reveals the nature and
purpose of Satanism.  Those (for example) qabalistic magicians who think
they are contributing towards this progression should think again.
        The Return of the Dark Gods will bring torment, gnashing Darkness
and Death to some, and bounty to others.  As stated, we have reached a
point in consciousness to recognise that the world is up for grabs.  The
strong will survive and the weak will perish - an obvious statement, though
difficult for those bound by Nazarene morality to accept.
        To invert the Established is only a starting point, a means to an
end.  For most, that stage beyond may be realised in time.  But for now, it
is enough just to start.  As Derek Farr, bastion of the film noir, so
eloquently said in his early film 'Lethargy':

                       "It seems there is no finer point
                        Than that which is lodged with the cranial index
                        of a dying priest."


                                                Christos Beest

                                                Order of the Nine Angles

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     INVERSE PENTAGRAM BADGE/LAPEL PIN
                     BLACK BACKGROUND, WHITE DESIGN,
                     25mm. $5.00 each from Realist
                     Publications, Box 38-262 Petone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              THE FIRST REBEL
                              By Illuminatus

        "Satan is the first free-thinker and Saviour of the World.
        He frees Adam and impresses the seal of humanity and liberty
        on his forehead, by making him disobedient."
        Thus stated Mikhail Bakunin, the Russian Anarchist philosopher.
        Jehovah, Allah and many other god-concepts have been used since the
dawn of humankind to enslave the individual and stifle his ascent, at the
behest of vested interests, ruling the cliques and coteries.  Often it is
that Government and Church have worked hand-in-hand to crush the human
spirit.
        What then of Satan, whom Bakunin praised as the first free-thinker
and liberator of man?  Is it a paradox that this Father of Anarchism should
identify with such a figure, for is not Satan simply another God-despot?"
        No!  Satan - whether defined as a symbol, an archetype or a literal
entity - is not God, but Anti-God.
        What did Bakunin mean, with his allusion to the freeing of Adam
through disobedience?  Turning to the Judaeo-Christians' own scriptures we
find that it was Satan who offered humankind the choice of free-will, or
continued enslavement to the tyrant-god.  The first archetypical human
couple chose freedom, and willfully disobeying the godly-tyrant partook of
the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge, gaining self-consciousness and the
ability for independent thought.  (Genesis 2-3).
        Satan is representative of freedom from godly-tyranny and the
worship of ignorant superstition.  Satanism and 'devil worship' are
antithetical rather than synonymous, for the latter simply substitutes
Satan for Jehovah/Jesus; the devil-worshipper is an inverse-Christian.

WHAT IS SATAN?
        Who or what then is Satan?  A malevolent figure of hideous aspect
demanding that his adherents kiss his arse in homage> Reading the Old
Testament and The Revelation this sounds more like Jehovah.
        The following is a more apt description of Satan, as given by Paul
Carus, author of The History of The Devil:
        "Evil personified appears at first sight repulsive.  But the more
we study the personality of the Devil, the more fascinating it becomes.  In
the beginning of existence the Evil One is the embodiment of everything
unpleasant, then of everything bad, evil and immoral.  He is hatred,
destruction, and the annihilation incarnate, and as such he is the
adversary of existence, of the Creator, of God.  The Devil is the rebel of
the cosmos, the independent in the empire of the tyrant, the opposition to
uniformity, the dissonance in universal harmony, the exception to the rule,
the particular in the universal, the craving for originality, which bodily
upsets the ordinance of God that enforce a definite kind of conduct; he
overturns the monotony that would permeate the cosmic spheres if every atom
in unconscious righteousness and with pious obedience slavishly followed a
generally prescribed course."

        Satan is the embodiment of those forces which lead to progress and
human ascent by upsetting the static order.  Thus we see the rationale for
Bakunin's championing of Satan, for he is the proto-Anarchist.

COSGNI (Anarchist) Box 58-524, Auckland.

Social Dis-Ease (Anarchist), $3.00 from:  Anarchy Organisation, Box 14156,
Kilbirnie, Wgtn.  NZ.

Euphoria (Anarchist) from Tom McPhee, 41 Osborne St.  S.  Yarra, Vic.3141,
Australia.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

"Normality should be your total difference from it."
        -Austin Osman Spare

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - CUT HERE- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

                         SUBSCRIBE TO THE WATCHER

Name_____________________________________________

Address_______________________________________________________________________

One Year - NZ:  $4.00; Overseas - Surface:  $5.00; Air:  $10.00

                 Cheques payable to "Realist Publications"

To:  P.O.  Box 38-262, Petone, Wellington, New Zealand

IF A TICK APPEARS IN THE BOX YOUR SUBSCRIPTION IS NOW DUE [ ]

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - CUT HERE- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

Notes:

        The Watcher is brought to you in a slightly altered form on the
computer.  It lacks the pictures and title art of the original and has been
slightly restructured with respect to placement of advertisements and
subscription form.
        These issues of The Watcher are fairly old.  If you are considering
ordering anything from this issue it may be advisable to check out the
latest prices first.

                                 * - * - *

                    Typed in by Graeme Wilson (O.L.H.P.)

If you want more info on any OLHP productions or want more info on
Satanism, contact me via the following computer networks:

        Fidonet:  3:770/505
                  (Southern Vortex BBS, ph: +64 0-3-454-3900, 14.4k modem)
        Usenet:   fenris@otago.ac.nz

Also I may be contacted on other NZ BBS's:

        Alternative Reality: +64 0-3-471-0414
        Southern Lights:     +64 0-3-455-6016
        The Left Hand Path:  +64 0-3-454-5763 (my own BBS)
        Bad Dreams BBS:      +64 0-9-528-3577 (leave message to 'Lucifer')

If you wish to contact me via mail to swap texts, ideas, etc. then write
to:

                              Graeme Wilson
                              129 Scott Street
                              Waverley
                              Dunedin
                              South Island
                              New Zealand

