                           T H E   W A T C H E R
                           =====================

                  NEW ZEALAND VOICE OF THE LEFT HAND PATH

                  P.  O.  Box 38-262, Petone, Wellington
----------------------------------------------------------
February 1991CE                                                         No.  6
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       THE MAKING OF A SATANIC MYTH

        ....That was the headline carried across page 8 of The Independent
(Sunday ed.  12 Aug 90), a leading British newspaper.
        The topic was that dealt with by The Watcher #5, in which we
examined the spread of lunatic christian smear-mongering against Satanists,
from the USA to Britain and South Africa.  In that article ("Anti-Satanist
hysteria spreading") we pointed out that christian fundamentalists, and
those neurotics and worse claiming to have been sexually abused by
Satanists, to have witnessed blood sacrifices and demonic manifestations,
etc., were receiving support and superficial 'respectability' from allies
in the tabloid press and police depts.
        Although the anti-Satanist lunacy pushed by the tabloids and the
christian crusaders has been taken seriously by social workers,
psychiatrists, et al., fortunately a responsible paper such as The
Independent has done a thorough job on the allegations.
        The Independent backgrounds the hysteria in the US and UK, and
exposes the origins which are apparently to be traced back to British
Columbia, Canada.  Here in 1976 Michelle Smith, a 22 yr.  old who was under
the care of a psychiatrist after having miscarried, began to remember the
long repressed events of her childhood.  From the age of four she had
suffered sexual, physical and emotional abuse at the hands of a satanic
coven, which included her mother.  She witnessed blood rites, including the
sacrifice of babies and the mutilation of animals.
        Michelle and her therapist, Lawrence Pazder, went to the Vatican
"to alert the church about the previously unheard of dangers to children
from Satanic cults worldwide." To warn the world they wrote Michelle
Remembers, published in the US in 1980 and in Britain the following year.
        Thus was born from a psychiatrist's couch the anti-Satanist
hysteria which over the next decade was to spread throughout the USA, and
which is now cropping up in the UK and SA, with fallout in NZ arising
occasionally in the form of teenage 'Death Metal' fans performing bloody
rites and christian bookstores stocked full of books on the Satanic dangers
of yoga, acupuncture, eastern Mysticism, etc.  ready and waiting for the
hysteria to reach NZ shores.
        The Independent relates that in early August a conference on incest
was held at a London hospital, where a woman claimed "she had been the
victim for 16 yrs.  of ritual abuse by Satanists", and told delegates "that
human foetuses were being killed and eaten by members of 'Satanic sex
rings.'"
        Perhaps the most alarming aspect that emerges from the anti-Satanic
hysteria is that the wild and whacky tales are taken seriously by people in
responsible community positions.
        The heavily-publicized incest conference was co-organized by a
Harley St.  psycho-therapist, Vera Diamond, who stated that several
children had been killed at Satanic rituals in Britain.
        Psycho-therapist Norman Vaughton said that there were an estimated
10,000 human sacrifices a year in the USA, most of them "foetuses that have
been bred specially."
        The Independent reports that over the past two yrs.  the British
public has been hearing increasing reports of 'Satanic ritual abuse' from
social workers, therapists, and churches.
        The paper states that having investigated the claims it has found
that "nobody has produced evidence."
        "There have been police investigations across the US, in Canada,
the Netherlands, and now in Britain.  They have produced no evidence, no
bodies, no bones, no covens, no underground tunnels, no animal carcasses,
no blood-stains.  Nothing.  Just the occasional court case where the
pretence of supernatural powers was used to obtain silence and submission."
        Continues The Independent, "our investigations have revealed that
the Satanic abuse myth originated in the US.  It has been spread largely in
fundamentalist christian circles, and it is now accepted as fact by many
psychotherapists and police officers.
        "The allegations began to surface only after the publication of the
book Michelle Remembers."
        The co-author, Dr Pazder, now married to Michelle, began organizing
"Satanic cult crime" seminars across the US for therapists and the police.
Panic began to spread.  From 1984-1989, 100 people were charged with ritual
sexual abuse.  Of those approx.  50 were charged and half were convicted of
child abuse.  "No evidence of satanism was found in these cases."
        "In other cases the allegations were dismissed as the worst
outbreak of mass hysteria since the Salem witchhunt."
        (A plot hatched by a military chaplain against Dr Michael Aquino
and his wife Lilith, of the Temple of Set, resulted in the police officers
involved being disciplined, a shake-up of the SF police dept.  procedures,
and the total exoneration of the Aquinos, the doctor himself being a
respected member of both the military and academe).
        In establishing how the "Satanic child abuse myth" spread from the
US to Britain, the article cites the work of Robert Hicks, an analyst with
the criminal justice dept.  in Virginia, who "blames 'a loose network' of
therapists, fundamentalist christians, serving and ex-police officers and
also the media for 'perpetuating the myth'".
        He told The Independent, "there were no such stories before the
publication of Michelle Remembers."
        Dr Sherrill Mulbern, an anthropologist from the Uni.  of Paris, who
has studied self-declared Satanic abuse survivors, notes the interpretation
between therapists, patients, and the hysteria, which results in a
"paranoid reading of the data" by supposed 'experts.'
        The article relates the story of a woman who claimed to a C of E
vicar (with whom she now stays) that she had been initiated into a satanic
coven when a six week old baby, married to Satan when 11; raped by coven
members and by demons; and witness to blood sacrifices.  Some of the
happenings were conducted in a public park, but Satan made the coven
invisible (this explanation being sufficient to convince the vicar).
        The Independent is to be commended for producing a responsible
report debunking the "satanic abuse myth" (as it is referred to).  No doubt
the paper is now blacklisted by Christian zealots as being under Satanist
control.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     THE HERESY OF THE LEFT HAND PATH
                  by R. Parker, Editor, "Exeat", England


        One of the fundamental principles of the LHP in general and
Satanism in particular is the desire to know - in the senses of
understanding and experience.  This principle is expressed by an attitude
of living, an attitude often evident in the personality of the individual -
there is acceptance of challenges, a desire to explore or create but above
all an instinct for excellence.  The follower of the LHP is seldom
satisfied, a natural rebel who has an instinctive aversion to accepting
authority.  He or she needs to find out by personal experience rather than
by accepting something dogmatically.  He or she wants and needs to be a
leader rather than a follower.
        Our societies, however, instead of producing such strong, proud and
truly defiant and truly individual people, produce a conformist herd - and
what is startling is that most of this herd is created and moulded and
maintained for the most of this herd is created and moulded and maintained
for the most part not by compulsion but rather by ideas.  It is ideas which
keep the vast majority in enslavement - ideas accepted, enshrined in dogmas
and made the basis for Institutions and state structures.  The educational
systems of all our societies are based on certain ideas and these ideas are
inculcated into the young.
        It will not surprise many readers that the majority of these ideas
- so detrimental to true individualists and thus conscious evolution -
derive from the poisonous philosophy of the Nazarene.  One of the most
pernicious of these ideas is the concept of equality (qv.  the article by
Faustus Scorpius in issue #2 of Exeat, "Contemporary Dogma").  Another is
what is inaccurately called 'democracy' and yet another 'freedom'.  All
these are abstract notions, idealized forms, and such incapable
achievement, except on a purely individual forms, and as such incapable
achievement, except on a purely individual basis.  Yet generation after
generation are tricked into believing in and trying to achieve these goals
on a State and supra-state level.
        Consider, for example, 'democracy.' This is defined in many ways,
but in essence is taken to mean 'free elections' and a government of
elected officials who decide matters of policy.  Any person actually
possessed of the faculty of thought will know the sham that is this
'democracy' - where promises are made but seldom kept, and where in general
'minority interests' are more important than 'majority interests' because
in electoral terms a minority vote is very crucial.  Theorists trace
democracy to Greece -whereas anyone actually studying the wholesome society
of ancient Greece states would know that genuine 'democracy' was possible
only within a small 'polis' composed of people related by ties of blood.
At the time of writing, hundreds of thousands of American are poised to go
to war in the Middle East in an attempt to bring about a more 'democratic'
State and to end what is regarded as 'tyranny.' Whether or not this in
reality is so is irrelevant - as is the fact that the US Government may or
may not in reality be fighting for oil or to keep Israel safe.  What is
important is that the 'ideas' behind the 'crusade' are accepted by millions
who are prepared to fight and die for them - the herd are so mesmerized by
the ideas and the rhetoric that they are not in any sense themselves free
and cannot, for instance, understand that even in their own country, the
US, those ideals do not exist in reality.  Their government complains of
'human rights' violations yet ignores the daily brutality within America;
spends vast sums to fight a foreign war but cannot keep peace on its own
streets - talk about high ideals but ignore the death of Kimberley Harbour
of Boston gang raped, mutilated and murdered....  The pursuit of the ideal
keeps individual mentality and consciousness on the level of the herd.  In
short, the State (and its dogma) reign, and the individual is ignored.

POSITION OF THE LHP
        The LHP has always stood opposed to abstract ideas and collectivist
thinking.  It has always given individuals the opportunity to create from
direct personal experience a way of living and a way of thinking truly
original.  Of course, this was and is a hard way, a hard school - full of
danger.  But that very danger ensured that those of herd feeling and herd
instincts perished while the naturally strong, the naturally gifted
survived and flourished.  The LHP enhanced life, gave increased vitality to
the individual - and created a lasting and genuine insight both personal
and supra-personal, which in time gave birth to wisdom.  Thus was evolution
achieved.
        What should be happening is that this evolution should be spreading
to more than a few individuals scattered across the globe - there should
have been, due to the insights of creative individuals within
civilizations, a general upsurge towards insight:  in short the emergence
of more and more 'Promethean' individuals imbued with creativity and zest -
race after race of 'higher men' going forward to the very limits of
evolutionary possibility.  Instead there has been more and more conformity
- not less; more and more acceptance of anti-life and anti-natural ideas.
The triumph of the weak, the scum, the cowardly - rather than their defeat
and demise.
        However, even the LHP and satanism have been infected by the
diseases of the herd:  the fawning mentality which accepts rather than
desires to experience, that softness nurtured by society where extremes are
classified and subjected to analysis and thus rendered safe; that desire to
make dogma and deify worthless individuals.  Satanism and the LHP are
concerned with direct, personal experience - of going to extremes - of
learning from those experiences and extremes, or being destroyed in the
attempt.  There is no acceptance of others, of groups, of dogmas, ideas or
systems - there is only a prideful, fierce strong desire to achieve the
ultimate, to experience the essence of Being, and this desire is
individual, never collective.  What the LHP has done is to offer
opportunities - a certain guidance perhaps, or a way:  if the way of
yesterday does not work or is insufficient, discard it, destroy it - but
create something new which enhances individual life and expands evolution.
There is nothing sacred.
        Today, morons of the herd are accepting - or beginning to accept -
some self-appointed authority within the LHP and satanism.  There is no
such thing!  For the genuine satanist would defy even Satan Himself!  Of
course, such Masters need to be fawned upon, need herd individuals - that
is the natural way of things, and good luck to those 'Masters' in their own
evolution.  But such types, and their modes of being, must not become
accepted as the 'norm', as authoritative - there must be someone to defy
them and there ways, someone or some others to carry on the inner task of
the LHP - of making more and more achieve genuine insight and fulfil the
potential of divinity within us all.
        The question is:  which type are you - slave, or Master?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               Temple of Set

The Temple of set was incorporated in 1975CE by Dr M.  Aquino and other
senior initiates of the esoteric.
The Temple's philosophy is based on the evolution of individual
psychecentric consciousness towards its own divinity through the deliberate
exercise of the intelligence and will, a process of becoming (Egyptian
Xeper).  Write:  Box 4507 St.  Louis, MO 63108 USA

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BOOK REVIEW

Naos:  A Practical Guide to Modern Magick.  Thurston West, 1989, Order of
the Nine Angles, Coxland Press, The Studio, Chalkpit Farm, Englefield
Estate, Berkshire RG7 5EE England
        If you have found the medieval grimoires ridiculous, and the wiccan
rites bland and childish, if you despaired that the Satanic "Black Book"
only existed in works of occult fiction, you will be delighted to have
Naos, for here is a truly Satanic grimoire.
        The work begins with "Physis magick", internal magick used for
personal self-development.  The whole system is based on the Order's
Septenary Traditions (the Seven Fold Way).
        External magick is described as being the changing of events
according to the Will of the magician.
        The "Sinister Tarot", its use, layout and attributes is given, and
will be of special interest to Satanists who have been obliged to use the
Judaeo-Christian based Tarots, or the Crowley one at best.
        The "Star Game" is a modern magickal innovation invented by the
author, a type of complex chess using seven-layered boards, and Jungian and
alchemical symbolism as a magickal system in itself, to which prime
importance is attached in the ONA system.
        Stages of initiation are described and consist of practical but
rigorous exercises:  physical and mental tests, tarot and other meditations
and visualization.

        Part Two is concerned with "Esoteric sorcery".  The methods of word
vibration and esoteric chant are given, along with the correspondence of
specific chants to spheres of energy.
        "Frenzy magick" is defined as "becoming possessed by acausal
energies by creating through specific techniques a physical and emotional
frenzy" with the use of dance, breathing exercises, physical exhaustion and
music.
        Visualisation technique is briefly and simply explained.  Sigil
magic here involves the use of the Star Game and its alchemical symbols.
        Sexual magick is the use of energies generated by the sexual act.
It is suggested that the act is ritualized to a certain extent, by use of
the appropriate incense, coloured candles and planetary alignments,
visualization and chant.
        Dark Pathways outlines the means of integrating the 'shadow'
aspects of the Self by utilizing the spheres and pathways of the Septenary
system through spiral dance, chant/vibration and sigil visualization.  A
table of correspondence of Path, Word of Power, sigil and Tarot image is
provided.  A second table comprises descriptions of the forces; e.g.
"Shugara" (corresp.  to Tarot XVIII:  The Moon), a dangerous energy invoked
for a destructive working, G Major being the key for invoking chant.
"Shaitan" is identified as the earth-bound representative of the Dark Gods;
Perfume/incense is sulphur; stone, opal, etc.
        The section on "The Dark Gods" explains that we are not solely
dealing with energies drawn from the individual unconscious, but with the
Dark Gods as actual entities, which can be made manifest by the use of
techniques which reach the appropriate levels of the psyche.  The 'Abyss'
is defined as that which separates everyday consciousness from that which
apprehends the Dark Gods.  The ordeal of the abyss involves the confronting
of these entities and acceptance of their existence as being apart from our
concepts of 'good and evil'.  The Dark Gods may enter our universe through
"star gates", physical gates in the galaxy.  The star gate in our solar
system is said to be located near Saturn.
        A section of appendices describes such topics as:  the Left Handed
Path, the Septenary system, Magickal symbols and scripts, Hermetic
(individual, internal) rituals.  The LHP, including 'traditional Satanism'
is defined as "the use of magickal energies to enhance the evolution of the
individual", a willed act of confronting via symbols the 'dark' or hidden
side of consciousness and integrating it as part of the Self.
        The Septenary system of the ONA is based on the symbolic map of
consciousness and the unconscious as depicted on the Tree of Wyrd, a
European equivalent to the Hebrews' Cabbalistic Tree of Life.  Each sphere
has its own Tarot, incense, and colour attributions, etc., which when used
in ritual can awaken that particular sphere of energy within the
individual.  The Septenary Tree of Wyrd utilizes the Norse/Anglo-Saxon
pagan god-names, Odin, Thor, Loki, etc., with the connecting paths
attributed to Tarot images.
        The final section comprises a number of ONA MSS.  defining terms,
providing further correspondences, and notes on music, symbols, alchemy...
        A note on the acausal/causal explains that these terms refer to
universe(s) parallel to our own physical one, the 'goal' of sentient life
being to increase the flow of energy from the acausal, and thereby become
part of the acausal.  Initiation and the 'Mysteries' (i.e.  the Seven Fold
Way) are the means to achieve this.  The acausal and causal 'coincide'
within the individual psyche, archetypes being causal apprehensions of
acausal energy flowing from the acausal into our universe.
        This reviewer looks forward to Thurston West's next book, also to
be published by Coxland Press, The Black Book of Satan.

SPECIAL OFFER TO WATCHER READER
        The published price for NAOS is 26 pounds + 3 Pounds postage
($US68.00).  Coxland Press has kindly offered Watcher readers a discount.
NAOS may be ordered direct from Coxland Press for 20 pounds + 3pounds p&p
by quoting The Watcher issue number.  Write to:  Coxland Press, The Studio,
Chalkpit Farm, Englefield, Berkshire RG7 5EE, England.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             NEW PUBLICATIONS

        The Heretic is the name of a new Satanist journal.  Most of the
first issue comprises commentary on contemporary issues, with observations
on politics, education and censorship.  Such a journal is to be welcomed as
there is a need for more Satanists to assert their philosophy and how it
relates to society, politics, culture...., an alternative ready to replace
the dying Old Order.
        Send a large SAE or International Reply Coupons for a sample to:
The Heretic, PO Box 2042 Fairview Heights, Il.  62208, USA.

        Balder, the name of both a society and a journal, is open to males
of at least 18 years.  (plans are afoot to set up a Sisterhood section,
invoking the Earth/Maternal element.).  Fees:  30 Pounds yearly, or 35
Pounds in any other currency.  The journal Balder is published monthly and
is free to members.  "Articles by leading Brothers from all over Europe on
magick, mythology, folklore, history, aeonics, Physis Training, and
contributions from various secret societies", are included in the journal.
        Members also receive a parchment membership scroll, 20% discount
off the Albion Pilgrimage (a tour of England's mystical and historic
sites), minimum 25% discount off all books and other items produced by the
society, participation in quarterly celebrations, future provision for
participating in workshops (those far away can do this via correspondence),
contacts, and studies in various subjects leading to Grades.
        Adds Stephen Cox:  "Above all is the dynamic of the pan-European
potential.  Members now come from 9 countries and their combined knowledge,
experience, comments, and communication serve to stimulate all of us.
Promote awareness of the individuality of each nation/tribe and rediscovery
of the identity of each, and yet an appreciation of the 'folk' mission of
the tribes combined.  A tall order - but in even a little way we play our
part!" Balder may be contacted c/- Stephen B Cox, The Studio, Chalkpit
Farm, Englefield, Berkshire RG7 5EE, England.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Profound instrumental music composed by altruistmystic:
ILE MAUZAR cassette only $US4.00 to:  J.S.  PO Box 134, Waynesville MO 65583.

22 year old mystic eager to correspond with others of the LHP - into King
Diamond, Fates Warning and Yngwie Malmsteen, solitude, reading, nature,
ambiotic propagation.  John PO Box 134 Waynesville MO 65583 USA

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED

BRIMSTONE, quarterly journal of the Ancient Brotherhood of Satan.  Editor:
John Dewey.  Annual sub.  $US18.00.  Box 660 Marstons Mills, MA 02648, USA

CRY OF THE RAVEN, Quarterly of the Church of the Raven.  $US15.00 from:
Night Owl, Box 321, Meredosia, Ill.  62665 USA

DARK LILY Quarterly.  6 Pounds overseas.  BCM Box 3406, London, WC1N 3XX
England.

EXEAT, a forum to explore the forbidden.  10 Pounds; Overseas air, $US35.
Thormynd Press, Box 4, Church Streeton, Shropshire, England.

FACTSHEET FIVE Reviews of anything & everything.  Sample $US 3.00, overseas
$7.  6 Arizona Ave.  Resselaer, NY 12144 USA.

THE BLACK FLAME, quarterly affil.  to Church of Satan.  $US12.00; Overseas
$16.00.  Box 499, Radio City Station, NY, NY 10101-0499 USA.

TO THE LEFT, Thee Ministry Ov Shaitanic Quabala.  Sub.  by donation payable
to:  A.  Souto, Box 4546 Miami Florida 33014-0546, USA.

TRIDENT, monthly, Embassy of Satan.  $US 36.00, Overseas $50.00.  Box 666
Whitehall, Pa.  18052, USA.

THEE TEMPLE OV PSYCHICK YOUTH European Station Bulletin, for a sample send
3 IRCs to:  Psychick Release PCP, PO Box 26067, S-10041 Stockholm, Sweden.

FENRIR, Journal of Satanism & The Sinister.  Cheques payable to "Brekekk",
P.O.  Box 109, Newport, Gwent NP6 1XZ Wales, U.K.

THE HERETIC, Box 2042 Fairview Heights Il.  62208 USA.  SAE or IRCs.

BALDER, send donation for membership details.  The Studio, Chalkpit Farm,
Englefield, Berkshire RG7 5EE, England.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    |
   LEARN THE FACTS ABOUT SATAN!     |        Daab-Soul Destruction
                                    |   Live at the Slap Club (edited)
BRIMSTONE quarterly is a journal of |
The Ancient Brotherhood of Satan!   | (1) THEE EVANGELIST THEORY (2)
Be challenged by masters of         | INTRAVENOUS THERAPY (3) THREE
demonology & witchcraft!  See how   | FRIENDLY FACES OF FATE (4) RADIO
you fit in!  FREE DETAILS.          | CHAOS (5) THE INVOCATION OV BREATH
                                    | 
Sample/$5.           1 yr./$18.     |    © all rights reserved..AUMVUX
U.S. funds payable to:              | 
          BRIMSTONE                 | $US4.00 per tape ($US6.00 overseas)
          P.O. Box 660              | from:  Thee Ministry Ov Shaitanic
          Marstons Mills            | Quabala PO Box 4546 Miami Fl.
          MA 02648                  | 33014-0546 USA Cheques & MOs                                    
BRIMSTONE...                        | payable to A.L.  Souto.             
Keeps the hellfires burning!        |

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                  RELIGIOUS ZEALOTS AIMING AT WORLD RULE

        Both Christianity and Islam derive from Judaism.  All three have
'divinely inspired' visions of World conquest.
        In centuries past the Jesuit Order played a Machiavellian role in
world politics.  Today the christian New Right has become a factor in US
politics.  Pres.  Reagan and his guru Falwell openly spoke of the
'apocalypse generation' and confrontation in Israel between the USA and
USSR fulfilling the biblical prophecy of Armageddon.
        Pat Robertson, Evangelist and Republican presidential candidate,
has written:  "We can embrace the religious world in one arm and the
political world in the other.  With this great ideology, if you are not
confident to do this you had better die."
        Those not embracing the christian dispensation of the New Right are
called renegades by Robertson, and marked for annihilation in true
apocalyptic fashion.
        Zionism was created to fulfil politically the messianic visions of
Judaism.  The establishment of Israel is only the first part of the
programme.  The second part is the creation of an Israeli Empire stretching
from the Nile to the Euphrates, in line with the Jehovic covenant with
Abraham.  Ultimately the goal is the creation of a Universal state under
the Israeli flag and an heir to David enthroned in Jerusalem, capital of
the world.
        These Zionist aims have been alluded to at various time by Zionist
leaders such as Ben Gurion, Moshe Dyan et al., and were set forth as a
consistent political programme in 1932 by Prof.  Michael Higger in The
Jewish Utopia, endorsed as an accurate reflection of messianic Judaism by
the Kallah of Texas Rabbis, and deposited in a private Jewish collection.
Higger writes:  "The people of Israel will conquer spiritually the nations
of the earth, so that Israel will be made high above all nations in praise,
in name, and in glory...  Only the messianic flag will remain, and all the
nations will centre around the emblem."
        The zionist programme for world domination is fully outlined in the
Torah; the christian one in The Revelation; both are thus readily
assessable to all 'with eyes to see'.
        However for several years now the attention of the world has been
focused on a renascent Islam.  With the death of Khomeini, Iraq's Hussein
took over as a latter-day Mahdi who is calling for a Jihad against the
infidel as in days of old.
        Islam, like its two Leventine relatives, sees itself as having a
world mission:  the conversion of all to the faith of Mohammed.
        Even Thatcher warned a NATO conference this year that "there is no
guarantee that threats to our security will stop at some imaginary line
across the Atlantic.  With the spread of sophisticated weapons, and
military technology to areas like the Middle East, potential threats to
NATO territory may originate outside Europe."
        Islamic countries having chemical and biological missiles include
Iraq, Iran, Syria, Libya and Pakistan.  The Centre for Strategic and
International Studies has warned that "the great powers are no longer
distant and disapproving observers of regional follies of developing
nations."
        Seth Carus, A Fellow of the Naval War College Foundation, stated
that "Rome itself would be threatened by such weapons in the hands of the
Libyans.  If armed with chemical warheads such a weapon could kill
thousands of unprotected civilians in the crowded confines of Italy's
largest cities."
        When Khomeini took over Iran he was heralded as the Mahdi of Islam.
The Tunisian monthly Al-Ma'arifa (Sept.  1979) wrote:  "Iran was elected by
the Prophet for LEADERSHIP OF THE WORLD."
        Now Iraq has that honoured responsibility, and should Hussein fall
another will eventually take his place to challenge an indecisive West.
        On a rational basis the dream of a revived Islamic Empire
encroaching upon European territory is of course quite mad; but we are not
dealing with the rational, we are dealing with religion.  Many of the
impoverished Islamic masses will gladly suffer martyrdom and thus be
assured an honoured place in Paradise.  According to the Koran Allah sends
'invisible forces' to fight alongside the true believer and makes the plans
of the enemy 'go astray', "whatever their strength."
        It is just such mysticism which could once again inflame Islam to
take on Western nations, under a Mahdi, as their forefathers were apt to do
until comparatively recently when confronting the colonial powers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    |
          SATANIC ARCHIVE           |          EQUIPUS SPIRITAE
                                    |
   Thee Ministry Ov Shaitanic       | We are now available for the
Quabala is looking to put together  | manufacture of made-to-order occult
a file on now-defunct Satanic       | paraphernalia:  Swords, pentacles,
organizations.  Any information,    | staffs, etc.
books, photos, xeroxes, news        |
clippings and/or propaganda by the  | We also do quality illumination and
following institutions:             | calligraphy for Grimoires, Books of
   Process Church, Global Satanic   | Shadows, Handfasting certificates,
Network, Church of Satanic          | etc.
Liberation, Brotherhood of the Ram, |
Church of Satanic Brotherhood,      | Please direct all correspondence
CASH, Four Pi Movement, Illuminati  | to:
of Texas, Lady of Endor Coven,      |          EQUIPUS SPIRITAE
Ophite cultus satanus, Esoteric     |          P.O. BOX 183
Order of Dagon, Order of Black Ram, |          PAHIATUA
Ordo Templi Satanas, Orthodox       |
Satanic Church of Nethilum, Shrine  | All enquiries and orders will be
of the Little Mother, Warlords of   | dealt with discreetly and
Satan, Thee Satanic Church, Third   | confidentially.
Temple of Baal, First Church of     |
anti-Christ, Gnostic Temple of      |
Satan, Order Ov Blood Axis, Lodge   |
666.                                |
   Reasonable prices paid for good  |
quality information.  Contact:      |
 A L Souto, Box 4546, Miami Fl.     |
33014-0546                          |
                                    |
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR.....

        Thankyou for sending me the July issue of The Watcher, The Bible
Reconsidered, & Essays on Satanism.  There's not much I can say to you
work, other than "well done." "Shuti", Magister Templi
                                       Temple of Set, USA


        I found the new Essays on Satanism to be even better than the
first, and you know how I feel about the first one.
        Radio Werewolf saw my address on one of your issues of The Watcher
and now do not answer my letters, and have cut off my membership to the
Werewolf Order.  Who cares?!  Believe me, it is their loss for not
communicating with individuals such as yourself, Gilmore (ed.  The Black
Flame) and myself!
        Hail Shaitan!  A L Souto, Thee Ministry Ov Shaitanic Quabala USA.


        Thankyou for the ten copies of The Bible reconsidered.  I have
received no attempted refutation of it from any of the Christian
organizations I have challenged (IS that surprising?), although it might
interest you to know that shortly after sending my challenge to the Greater
Minneapolis Council of Churches someone took a flashbulb photo of me from
across the street one night as I was walking home.  What this means I have
no idea.
        Why do I do it?  Basically it is this:  World communism collapsed
practically overnight when it became blatantly obvious to the world -
through it modern communication networks - what an unworkable failure it
is.  When I read The Bible Reconsidered I get the idea that a far older and
even more decrepit belief system has the potential to go to same route.
        Yours in Satan, S.McL.  Priest, OLHP.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          SANCTUS TEMPLI SATANAS

        That's the name of a new Finnish Satanic Order, which will be
connected with the OLHP.  The Order's initiator writes that while its
primary concern at this stage is to reach local people with the message of
Satanism, they also welcome contact with Satanists worldwide.
        STS has already produced an introductory pamphlet, Anti-Kristus,
utilizing some OLHP material, which will be printed in a forthcoming
Watcher along with translations of other material in the pamphlet.
        STS is spearheaded by a group of young musicians and artists, and
they have a very professional approach which can be seen from the quality
of their first publication.  As a result of one adv.  in a rock magazine
STS has already received 20 inquiries.
        STS's logo appears on the right.  These finnish Satanists may be
contacted at :  PL 36, 90521, Oulu, Suomi, Finland.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                FERAL HOUSE
                                -----------

                         THE MAGICIAN'S DICTIONARY
An Apocalyptic Cyclopaedia of
Advanced Magic(k)al Arts and Alternate Meanings
by E. E. Rehmus
Demystifies the linguistic & philosophical convolutions of contemporary
occultism.  "Surprising and delightful...  I am learning from the book,
something not said of anything since Cosmic Trigger and Valis" - Frater
Belarion, Abrasax.
$12.95 ISBN: 0922915-01-6

                       THE SECRET LIFE OF A SATANIST
                  The Authorized Biography of Anton LaVey
by Blanche Barton
Forty rare photos and rare revelations pepper this insider's demonography
of Anton LaVey, founder of the Church of Satan.  Finally, here are the
unexpurgated stories behind the origins of Satanic ritual.  LaVey's erotic
involvements with Marilyn Monroe and Jayne Mansfield, LaVey's early career
as a hoodlum, carny, burlesque house organist, lion tamer, terrorist, and
ghost hunter for the San Francisco Police Department.  With texts by LaVey,
including an essay on lycanthropy previously rejected by publishers for
fear of provoking a "bloodbath"
$19.95 (Cloth) ISBN: 0922915-03-2

                             THE SATANIC WITCH
by Anton Szandor LaVey
The forbidden knowledge of seduction and manipulation made plain by the man
whose tutelage in the dark side of human behaviour is a thing of legend.
Introduction by LaVey's bewitching daughter, Zeena.
$9.95 ISBN: 0922915-00-8

                            TORTURES & TORMENTS
                         of the CHRISTIAN MARTYRS
by Rev. Antonio Gallonio
The most gruesome Catholic document in history, complete with remarkable
illustrations by today's most outre artists and lethal criminals.  Includes
a myth-busting forensic examination of the Crucifixion by pathologists at
the Mayo Clinic.  With the original woodcuts by Tempesta and a colour
frontispiece by Joe Coleman.
$12.95 ISBN: 0922915-02-4

                            APOCALYPSE CULTURE
                       Expanded and Revised Edition
Edited by Adam Parfrey
Over 400 pages of mind-blowing millennial arcana, including new articles
on:  The Lyman Family, the monkey gland affair, the Invisible War, the mass
psychology of misery, cereal box conspiracies, and J.S.  Downard's The Call
to Chaos.  "These are the terminal documents of the 20th Century." - J G
Ballard.  "Parfrey has edited a new book of revelation, a collection which
is almost as awesome and terrifying as the original biblical texts." -
Edwin Pouncey, NME.
$12.95 ISBN: 0922915-05-9 Available Oct. Advance orders accepted.

                                FERAL HOUSE
             PO Box 861893  *  Los Angeles, CA  *  90086-1893

          Add $1.50 each book for shipping. Foreign, add $4 each.
        Send S.A.S.E. for The Feral House Intelligencer newsletter

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            CONTEMPORARY DOGMA
        (This article, written by the Editor of The Watcher originally
         appeared in the English Satanist journal, Exeat).

        The stated aim of Exeat 'to explore taboo subjects tending to
undermine conventional ideas and morality', is indeed a noble one in the
best traditions of satanic heresy.
        There is I believe, a pervasive taboo subject underpinning morality
today.  It is a dogma every bit as far-reaching as the christian dogma of
past centuries, and to question it is to subject oneself to virtual
inquisition.  Let us here throw a heretical, Luciferian light upon this
dogma:

EGALITARIANISM
        The myth of universal human equality, of humanity as an
undifferentiated mass, is a doctrine that is so patently false, yet so
universally insisted upon by the high priests of press, pulpit and
parliament, that it has taken on religious proportions.
        The egalitarian dogma is a hang-over from christianity, which has
been taken over by political creeds such as liberalism, and has become
entrenched in every facet of society with the full and coercive force of
the state.
        The egalitarian ethos was set down in the New Testament by Paul who
wrote:
        "You are all, in fact, sons of God through your faith in Jesus
christ:  there is no Jew nor Greek, their is neither slave nor freeman,
there is neither male nor female; for you are all one in union with christ
Jesus."
        The christian gospel has elevated the meek, weak, humble and bloody
worthless to divine status, against the 'mighty, wise and noble'.  As
Nietzsche pointed out, this is also the gospel of the Marxist and the
liberal.
        In 1988 Pope John Paul declared at Salzburg that "Every human
life...  is endowed by God with a dignity which no one should assail."
        The proliferation of the worthless at the expense of the
intelligent and creative is gleefully watcher and promoted by politicians
who have votes to gain, by christians who have souls to save, and by
corporate executives who have expanding mass markets to plan for.  As Dr
Elmer Pendell has pointed out past civilizations have collapsed when
genetic selection is no longer operative and the least creatively and
intellectually-endowed expand at the expense of the culture bearing
minority.  (Pendell, Why civilizations Self-Destruct).
        To state this hard but obvious fact publicly is to bring the charge
of heresy down upon one's head.  Leading scientists such as the late W M
Shockley, Richard Herrnstein, Hans Eyseck, et al.  who have been bold
enough to state the truth have been met not be intelligent debate but by
violence and slander.  They have stated, to quote Francis Crick, 'all men
are not created equal." and the effect has been to state, 'the emperor has
no clothes.'
        Egalitarianism offers a simple solution to all problem of social
and economic differences between individuals:  Levelling.  If the inferior
cannot be elevated, then the superior must be humbled.  This is the spirit
of Bolshevism alive and well and resident in the West.
        Let the sage advice Friedrich Nietzsche, one of the great satanic
magus' be heeded lest the best be engulfed by the worst:
        "You preachers of equality, thus from you the tyrant-madness of
impotence cries of 'equality':  thus your most secret tyrant-appetite
disguises itself in words of virtue.
        "Soured by self-conceit, repressed envy....  they burst from you as
a flame and madness of revenge...  For justice speaks thus to me:  'Men are
not equal.' And they should not become so either!  For what were my love of
the Overman if I spoke otherwise?" (Nietzsche, Thus Spoke Zarathustra, Of
the Tarantulas).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       JUST RELEASED... ALL NEW !!!!

        Thee Black Grimoire:  Satanic rites & ceremonies, by Faustus
Scorpius.  Includes:  Self-Deification, Steps in ritual formulation,
Initiation, Black Mass, Death Rite, Rites of Ishtar & Kali, Templar rite,
Luciferian Mass, Rite of the Beast & Babylon.  $3.00 overseas order:
please add $2.00

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - CUT HERE- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

                         SUBSCRIBE TO THE WATCHER

Name_____________________________________________

Address_______________________________________________________________________

One Year (Four Issues): NZ:  $5.00; Overseas - Surface:  $6.00; Air:  $10.00
             Cheques & MOs payable to: "Realist Publications"
             P.O.  Box 38-262, Petone, Wellington, New Zealand
ADVERTISING RATES: Full page: $40.00; half page $20.00; quarter page $10.00
                   or by  exchange arrangement with other publications

IF A TICK APPEARS IN THE BOX YOUR SUBSCRIPTION IS NOW DUE [ ]

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - CUT HERE- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

Notes:

        The Watcher is brought to you in a slightly altered form on the
computer.  It lacks the pictures and title art of the original and has been
slightly restructured with respect to placement of advertisements and
subscription form.
        These issues of The Watcher are fairly old.  If you are considering
ordering anything from this issue it may be advisable to check out the
latest prices first.

                                 * - * - *

                    Typed in by Graeme Wilson (O.L.H.P.)

If you want more info on any OLHP productions or want more info on
Satanism, contact me via the following computer networks:

        Fidonet:  3:770/505
                  (Southern Vortex BBS, ph: +64 0-3-454-3900, 14.4k modem)
        Usenet:   fenris@otago.ac.nz

Also I may be contacted on other NZ BBS's:

        Alternative Reality: +64 0-3-471-0414
        Southern Lights:     +64 0-3-455-6016
        The Left Hand Path:  +64 0-3-454-5763 (my own BBS)
        Bad Dreams BBS:      +64 0-9-528-3577 (leave message to 'Lucifer')

If you wish to contact me via mail to swap texts, ideas, etc. then write
to:

                              Graeme Wilson
                              129 Scott Street
                              Waverley
                              Dunedin
                              South Island
                              New Zealand

