                           T H E   W A T C H E R
                           =====================

                  NEW ZEALAND VOICE OF THE LEFT HAND PATH

                  P.  O.  Box 38-262, Petone, Wellington
----------------------------------------------------------
September 1990CE XXV AS                                                 No.  4
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         SATAN : GOD, OR ANTI-GOD?

        Often it is that we come across the terms 'Devil-worshipper' and
'Satanist' used synonymously:  in the sensationalist tabloids, fundy
smears, t.v.  dramas, Hollywood horrors, and even among Satanists
themselves.
        What is the nature of this worship, and is it an appropriate
manifestation of the Satanic philosophy?
        'Devil-worshippers' there undoubtedly are.  As far as they exist in
the Western world they can be seen primarily among adolescents and
psychotics/neurotics.  Typically they are big on Denis Wheatley-type
theatrics, but philosophically lacking.  Some are rebelling against
parents, trying to shock, or escape from reality by pandering to fantasy.
In so doing the Devil-worshipper has substituted Satan for Jehovah/Jesus.
He has become an inverse-Christian, but is a long way off from the truly
Satanic.
        Satan is the 'god' of such types, but Satan is not God; he is
Anti-God.

"THE FALL"
        According to the Judaeo-Christian mythos, Man was separated from
his 'Creator' when he partook of the Tree of Knowledge, thereby gaining
wisdom and self-consciousness.  This was offered, promethean-style by The
Serpent, Satan.  This put him on the road to potential godhood; thus
mankind fell from the state of grace in the eyes of the Creator.  (Gen.
Ch.  2-3).
        The Gen.  legend is a Hebraic elaboration of the Babylonian
Creation epic, which recounts more vaguely that Man drew wrath of the Gods
by similarly acquiring a godlike capacity for wisdom.  A serpent is also
involved somehow.  (Chaldean Account of Genesis, Tr.  by G.  Smith).
        In both the Genesis and Babylonian legends the central theme is the
separation of Man from God(s), after acquiring godlike attributes from a
Being considered 'evil' by the godly on that account.
        The Satanic gift is thus one of separating man from divine
subordination and dependence, and from the dull, static contentedness of an
'Eden' in which nothing changes from millennium-to-millennium, accept by a
godly whim.
        It is precisely god-worship which Man was liberated by the
'Serpent', just as Satan liberated himself and a large percentage of the
Angelic host from the divine-tyrant, as brilliantly rendered by John Milton
in Paradise Lost, and Dr Michael Aquino, High Priest of Set, in The
Diabolicon.

"BLASPHEMY"!
        God-worship of any kind, including and especially devil-worship, is
quite clearly blasphemy unto Satan.  Devil-worship is the negation of the
very Gift of Satan, for his promise to Mankind was that we shall 'be as
gods', by freeing ourselves from godly tyranny.  Today psychologists call
it self-actualization; self-proclaimed Anti-Christ philosopher Nietzsche
call it self-overcoming; in both instances the emphasis is on the Self,
freed from the bondage of herd-conformity, whether prescribed by priestly
superstition or herd-morality.
        The only 'god' the Satanist worships is his own Self, leading
towards a Godhead of our own conception.
        Worship other than this is to render worthless the Gift of Satan.
This principle was wonderfully stated by Anatole France in his The Revolt
of the Angels.  Satan launches an attack on Heaven and is victorious.  He
casts Ialdabaoth (Jehovah) into Hell and assumes his throne...
        "And Satan found pleasure in praise and in the exercise of his
grace; he loved to hear his wisdom and power belauded...
        "Satan, whose flesh had crept, in days gone by, at the idea that
suffering prevailed in the world, now felt himself inaccessible to pity.
He regarded suffering and death as the happy results of his omnipotence...
the savour of the blood of victims rose upwards towards him like sweet
incense.  He fell to condemning intelligence and to hating curiosity.  He
himself refused to learn anything more, for fear that in acquiring fresh
knowledge he might let it be seen that he had not known everything from the
very outset...
        "Dense fumes of Theology filled his brain...
        "Thus centuries passed like seconds.  Now, one day, from the
altitudes of his throne, he plunged his gaze into the depths of the pit and
saw Ialdabaoth in the Gehenna where he himself had long lain enchained.
Amid the everlasting gloom Ialdabaoth still retained his lofty mien.
Blackened and shattered, terrible and sublime, he glanced upwards at the
palace of the King of Heaven with a look of proud disdain, then turned away
his head.  And the new god, as he looked upon his foe, beheld the light of
intelligence and love pass across his sorrow-stricken countenance.  And lo!
Ialdabaoth was now contemplating the Earth and, seeing it sunk in
wickedness and suffering, he ...  rose up ...  and hastened hither to
instruct and console mankind..."
        But all this was only a nightmare Satan was having.  He had not yet
begun his war against God, and he awoke bathed in sweat...
        "Comrades," said Satan to those standing around him, "no - we will
not conquer the heavens.  Enough to have the power.  War engenders war, and
victory defeat.
        "God conquered will become Satan; Satan, conquering, will become
God.  May the fates spare me this terrible lot; I love the Hell which
formed my genius.  I love the Earth where I have done some good...  Now,
thanks to us, the god of old is dispossessed of his terrestrial empire, and
every thinking being on this globe disdains him or knows him not.  But what
matter that men should no longer be submissive to Ialdabaoth if the spirit
of Ialdabaoth is still in them; if they, like him, are jealous, violent,
quarrelsome, and greedy, and the foes of the arts and beauty?...  As to
ourselves...  we have destroyed Ialdabaoth, our Tyrant, if in ourselves
alone that we have destroyed Ignorance and Fear.
        "...It is in ourselves and in ourselves alone that we must attack
and destroy Ialdabaoth."
        The Satanist does not pray, he does not beg to Satan, nor perform
any knee-bending exercises.  He recognizes the god within and works to
actualize it.  If he performs rituals or declares Satanic affirmations
these are to evoke the powers of his own Being, latent or otherwise, and
draw upon energies which are only being realized now by the mundane
sciences.

THE SATANIC PRINCIPLE
        Who or what is Satan?  A malevolent figure of hideous aspect
demanding that his adherents kiss his arse in homage?  Reading the Old
Testament and The Revelation the description seems more fitting for
Jehovah, as Anatole France clearly recognised.
        The following description of the 'Devil' by Paul Carus, author of
The History of The Devil states well the nature of Satan as perceived today
by thinking Satanist:
        "Evil personified appears at first sight repulsive.  But the more
we study the personality of the Devil, the more fascinating it becomes.  In
the beginning of existence the Evil One is the embodiment of everything
unpleasant, then of everything bad, evil and immoral.  He is hatred,
destruction, and the annihilation incarnate, and as such he is the
adversary of existence, of the Creator, of God.  The Devil is the rebel of
the cosmos, the independent in the empire of the tyrant, the opposition to
uniformity, the dissonance in universal harmony, the exception to the rule,
the particular in the universal, the craving for originality, which bodily
upsets the ordinance of God that enforce a definite kind of conduct; he
overturns the monotony that would permeate the cosmic spheres if every atom
in unconscious righteousness and with pious obedience slavishly followed a
generally prescribed course."
        Satan can be seen from the above description to be the embodiment
of those forces which lead to progress by upsetting the static order where
necessary, which led Man from primal, animalistic existence towards that
which is truly 'human'.  This is the real significance of the Genesis
legend, and the 'Fall' of Man away from 'God'.
        Satan then is not God, but Anti-God.  His demand is that he is not
worshipped, but rather that Man worships the God within and thereby strives
towards higher forms of Being, for in doing so we truly honour both
ourselves and Satan.

----------------------------  BOOK REVIEWS  ----------------------------------

The Church of Satan by Dr Michael A Aquino VI°, High Priest of Set (Temple
of Set, 1989).
        Dr Aquino is uniquely placed to write the church's history, having
been an intimate friend of the LaVey's, principal advisor and
trouble-shooter, second only to the LaVey's themselves in the Church.

        Dr Aquino draws heavily on correspondence in documenting the
Church's history from its foundation in 1966, until his departure in 1975
to form the Temple of Set.  This is neatly fitted together with his
commentary, analysis and humour.
        The first part consists of 374 pages in which LaVey and other
leading Satanists are brought to life.

        The second part of The Church of Satan consists of 143 appendices
covering over 400 pages.  Included are early C/S documents on magick and
philosophy, magazine articles, early rituals, accurate translations of
Yezidi scripture, many articles reprinted from the now-defunct Cloven-Hoof,
Dr Aquino's wonderful treatise on Satanism - The Diabolicon - and much
else.  Also included are over three dozen illustrations.
        The book is essential reading for every Satanist, and of course for
every Setian, but due to copyright restrictions is available only to II°+
Setians and approved I° for religious and educational purposes.  It is
produced on a non-profit basis, and is available to both US and overseas
Setians for a donation of $US50.00, most certainly a bargain for the wealth
of information provided.

                                    ---

Dr Faustus by Christopher Marlowe
        This review is based on the 1924 Metheun ed.  of the 1604 version
of Marlowe's play.  The introduction is by Prof.  R S Knox, and includes
the Faustbuch published in Germany in 1587, upon which Marlowe based his
play.
        From Know we learn that Marlowe was an atheist who led a hedonistic
lifestyle and had a rebel temperament.  His first plays, Tamburlaine (1587)
and Faustus (1589) are reflections of Marlowe's fascination with the great;
he rarely wrote of ordinary people.  Such a background would qualify his
well today as a potential 'Satanist'.
        He was, writes Know, "unable to brook the calmer ways of life or
the shackles of prescribed thought." With a warrant for his arrest issued
by the Privy Council, Marlowe was fatally stabbed in a tavern brawl before
reaching 30.
        John Faustus is said to have been born in Weimar.  A Doctor of
Divinity, he rejected Theology in favour of medicine, mathematics,
astrology and the Black Arts becoming a wandering scholar.
        Legend has it that Dr Faustus, with a lust for knowledge, summoned
Mephistophilis, a minister of Lucifer, using the techniques of ceremonial
magic current among scholars of the time.  Mephistophilis became the
servant of Faustus in exchange for the latter's soul after 24 years.
        Whereas the Faustbuch is a rather vulgar rendering of Faustus' life
and death, Marlowe's treatment of the legend portrays the "greatness of
mind behind Faustus' impatience with mortal knowledge and his resolve to
seek further by the Devil's aid...  In the medieval magic, indeed, in his
refusal to abide within the bounds prescribed for mortals, in his wreckless
daring, and in his suffering [Faustus] rises above himself." Marlowe's
treatment of Faustus' aspirations and tragic death draw upon the reader's
sympathy, in contrast to the treatment given him in Faustbuch.
        Some of the ridiculous portrayals in the original History are
reworked by Marlowe to endow the "Evil spirits" with "new dignity".  "Like
Milton after him he has refused to accept the medieval conception of devils
as grotesque and ridiculous figures." (p.  35).
        Indeed, Mephistophilis appears as an amiable character and obliging
servant, and one might even say 'friend', while the Doctor himself is
popular among students and scholars, generous to his friends, and showing
no tendency to misuse his powers for malicious ends (other than to inflict
some indignities upon the Pope and his entourage at a banquet - no doubt to
the amusement of the Protestant audiences of the time).

Faustian soul
        It is the motivation of Faustus which is of principal interest to
the Satanist.  Indeed the Satanic 'soul' can aptly be termed 'Faustian'.
        In Scene I we are told that Faustus found both theology and
medicine limiting.
        "These metaphysics of magicians [promised] all things that move
between the quiet poles" to be at one's command.
        A dominion that exceeds those of emperors and kings "stretcheth as
far as doth the mind of man", to godhood.
        "A sound magician is a mighty god; Here Faustus, tire thy brains to
gain deity."
        Being one's own deity:  truly is Satanic.  The theme is that of a
'passionate struggle to reach beyond the grasp of ordinary mortals...  the
goal which Faustus strives to attain is a godhead." (Knox).
        "Marlowe takes this old story of the medieval magician who sells
his soul to the devil for 24 years of pleasure and the gift of all
knowledge, and gives it a significance akin to that of such world-old myths
as Eve's eating the apple and Prometheus' defiance of the gods.  The
Faustus legend becomes for us a symbol of humanity's splendid struggle to
reach the stars, the tragedy of infinite aspiration..." (p.  7.)
        "Infinite aspiration" is a term which summarizes well the satanic
ethos.  We find it again reflected in the philosophy of Spengler who
defines the "Faustian soul" in similar terms, and in that of Nietzsche's
call for Self-Overcoming and the Over-Man.
        That peril is the chiefest way to happiness
        And resolution honour's fairest aim.
        What glory is there in a common good
        That hangs for every peasant to achieve?
        That like I best that flies beyond my reach.    Faustus.

                                    ---

The Church of Satan by Blanche Barton, 167pp, illustrated, Hell's Kitchen
Productions Inc., Box 370, Times Sq.  Station, NY, NY 10108-0370, USA.
$US8.95 +$1.50 postage; $5.00 overseas.
        Not to be confused with the book of the same title by Dr Aquino,
High Priest of the Temple of Set (reviewed on p.  4).
        Blanche Barton has been a C/S member since 1976, and a Church
administrator since 1984.
        The book covers the founding of the C/S in 1966 from a group called
the Magic Circle, which met at LaVey's house where he gave lectures on an
array of occult subjects.  Members included the grandson of a US president,
underground filmmaker Kenneth Anger, and sci-fi and fantasy writers such as
August Derleth.
        We are given a background of LaVey's fascinating life as
lion-tamer, second oboist for the San Francisco Ballet Orchestra,
travelling musician, police photographer, and investigator of 'nut calls'
for the SF police.
        Barton deals effectively with the anti-Satanist hysteria which has
been whipped up in recent years by fundamentalists, disposing of their
accusations of blood sacrifice, child molestation, etc.  by drawing on
sources such as FBI agent Kenneth Lanning's special report Satanic, Occult,
Ritualistic Crime:  A Law Enforcement Perspective and Satanism in America,
a scholarly study by the Committee for the Scientific Examination of
Religion.
        LaVey's Satanic political programme is outlined, including
stratification of society based on the inequality principle.  LaVey
recommends selective breeding, elitist stratification, and polygamous
relationships based in eugenic considerations as productive forms of
protest against the present norm.
        Much material is based on interviews with LaVey.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             EMBASSY OF SATAN

        An official communique has been received declaring that the Church
of S.A.T.A.N.  us undergoing a change of identity to divest itself of any
religious connotations.  The Church of S.A.T.A.N.  (Survival And The
Androgyne Nation) led by Rev.  Yaj Nomolos (reported in The Watcher #2)
should not be confused with the Church of Satan led by Anton LaVey.
        The new name of Rev.  Nomolos' movement is to be The Embassy of
Satan (EMBASAT).  Details available from:  Box 666, Whitehall,
Penna.  18052 USA.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             "SATANIC MAD LAB"

        Satanic Greetings have been received from Satanya.  She is pictured
below with Mad Doctor Schivo during what she describes as a 'hedonistic
study'.
        Satanya runs the Satanic Witch Fellowship, and is an Agent and
Coordinator of The LaVey Bible Study.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           PROFILE : JOHN DEWEY

        John Dewey first joined the Church of Satan in 1970 and is today an
Adept in the Temple of Set.
        Also known by his magickal name of The Daimon Egan, he is editor of
Brimstone Quarterly, journal of the Ancient Brotherhood of Satan (ABOS).
        The purpose of ABOS is described as being to "change consciousness
by known ignominious methods", "to restore Satan's proud legacy and to
resurrect His traditional role as 'The Adversary'.  To unleash all the
Powers of Hell.  Igniting chaos to achieve freedom from tyranny."
        ABOS follows the tradition of the early German order, the
Fraternitas Saturni.  Their philosophy is described as 'Nietzschean
Thelemism.'
        In common with the OLHP, ABOS sees an apocalyptic situation
confronting mankind:  "Mankind has reached a crucial stage...  it is the
challenge posed by the Over Man!
        "Technology is now being used...  to transgress the natural order.
Should we continue on this path, a Great Annihilation most definitely will
occur.
        "We must create with the same zeal with which we annihilate!  Then,
and only then, may we proceed to the next evolutionary step and transcend
the natural order altogether!  We shall move beyond the skies and live
among the stars!
        "Like it or not, we are the Ruling Elite.  Satanists must use their
strong influence either directly or indirectly to avert catastrophe.  The
time has come for the reign of the Illuminati!", write Dewey.
        John Dewey has a background in the Army, National Guard, computers,
commercial art, and entertainment.  He is now an independent movie
producer.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
                        ---------------------------

Thank  you  for  having  sent the courtesy copy of The Watcher.  I found it
interesting  reading.  Dr.  Aquino had sent me a copy of the correspondence
between  yourself  and  the  pathetic  "Radio  Werewolf"  group.  RW has an
eccentric  presentation  and  I  doubt  they will be very long-lived.  Your
reply  to  Escott  Placed cards on the table and so you may or may not hear
back  from  him:   people  who  play fantasy games do not generally like to
associate  with  those  who  will not agree to indulge in the same fantasy.
Still, that is his loss, not yours.


Other  points  of interest in The Watcher were "Crime & Punishment" and the
1000  BCE article.  The idea of encouraging eugenic measures in one form or
another  is  an  ideal,  but  I  doubt  the  Godly  would  dare allow such,
particularly  since  it  would effectively remove they themselves.  One has
only  to deal with the public to see how true it is that mankind in general
is sitting in deck chairs on the Titanic watching the sea grow higher!

And  so  with  that I am off to work on further correspondence.  My warmest
wishes to you and may you have continued success with The Watcher.

                           Xeper and Remanifest.

                                James Lewis

                           [Ipsissimus VI°, Temple of Set]


        Well done on the magazine.  I can appreciate the work that goes
into newsletters, having just finished the Albion Chronicles, the news
magazine for the Gates of Albion Pylon.  - Xeper & Remanifest, David Austen,
                                           Priest of Set III°, U.K.


                                                        CHAOS INTERNATIONAL

                                                          BM SORCERY.
                                                          LONDON
                                                          WC1N 3XX

Thanks for the material you sent Chaos International.  I will give the
watcher a mention in C.I.  if you would do the same for us in The Watcher.

I always find it amusing the way you Satanists keep slagging each other
off; one would have thought you had enough outside enemies without
aggravating the problem - still, keeps the hellfires burning I suppose!

                              Yours in Chaos,

                                 Ian Read

                                  Editor

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               Temple of Set

The Temple of set was incorporated in 1975CE by Dr M.  Aquino and other
senior initiates of the esoteric.
The Temple's philosophy is based on the evolution of individual
psychecentric consciousness towards its own divinity through the deliberate
exercise of the intelligence and will, a process of becoming (Egyptian
Xeper).  Write:  Box 4507 St.  Louis, MO 63108 USA

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Brimstone, in cooperation with KaliYuga Productions presents:
The Silver-mirrored Pentagram on Black Disk (9 inches in diameter).  An
absolute MUST for any Satanic altar!
Only $US19.95 + $4.00 shipping from:
Brimstone Productions  231 Kennedy Dr. #130, Malden, MA. 02148

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A Wolf In Sheep's Clothing is the title of a tape produced by Black Sun
Productions, run by Priestess Lance and Adept Reed of the Temple of Set.
        Their group is called The Children, The Children, dedicated to
expressing the beauty of Satanism.
        The tape may be obtained from Black Sun Productions for $US8.00.

                           Rebecca Chandra Lance
                                 Rip Reed
                           Black Sun Productions
                               P.O. Box 4090
                            Berkeley, CA 94704

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

"Normality should be your total difference from it." -Austin Osman Spare

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             CRY OF THE RAVEN

Quarterly journal of the Church of the Raven.  Editor:  High Priest Luther.
Annual subscription:  $US 15.00, from:
                               The Night Owl
                            BOX 321, Meredosia
                            Ill. 62665, U.S.A.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                TO THE LEFT

               Quarterly journal of the 88 Temple Ov Deities
                     Box 4546 Miami Fl. 33014-0546 USA

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       LEARN THE FACTS ABOUT SATAN!

                            BRIMSTONE quarterly
                            is a journal of The
                            Ancient Brotherhood
                            of Satan!
                            Be challenged by
                            masters of demonology
                            & witchcraft!
                            See how you fit in!
                            FREE DETAILS.

                            Sample/$5.   1 yr./$18
                            U.S. funds payable to:
                            BRIMSTONE
                            231 Kennedy Drive
                            #130, Malden MA 02148

                            BRIMSTONE...
                            keeps the hellfires
                            burning!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

EDITORIAL BABBLE-ON....
                           IRAQ & MILITANT ISLAM

        Because of the historic antagonism which existed in Centuries past
between Christianity and Islam, Satanists should not be deluded into
thinking that in the latter we have an ally against our historic enemy.
(The same principle applies to Judaism and its politicized offshoot
Zionism).  Christianity, Islam and Judaism are all of a similar nature,
aiming at a world dispensation.
        Islam has historically imposed itself by force.  The old European
colonial structures held it at bay for a time, and quickly put down any
flare-ups.  Now that the West has long since abdicated its position through
weakness, Islam is renascent and ready not only to oust remaining Western
influences from its own traditional realm, but to impose its belief-system
upon the Infidels as well, as in centuries past.
        Religious factionalism, reinforced by the megalomania of the
various Arabic political leaders contending for pre-eminence in the Arab
world, has long-served to keep Islam in check.
        Now Saddam Hussein, fired with the faith of his destiny as leader
of Islam, has emerged as the latest Moslem Messiah.  He has reached an
accord with his former Iranian enemy, and is by-passing those more
conservative Arab leaders who oppose him by appealing to their subjects for
a Jihad against the Infidel.  The potential exists for a united militant
Moslem response should the Arab masses perceive a threat to the holy
shrines of Islam in Saudi Arabia.
        What should have been the West's attitude from the start?
Blockades?  Economic sanctions?  UNO denunciations?  Crap!  The West,
because it is itself weak and lacking an Ideal, cannot conceive of
self-sacrifice and fanaticism, the sheer POWER of an Ideal such as Islam.
        The response from the USA should have been instant and devastating;
a direct assault on Iraq itself.  Clearly, air-power is the answer in such
circumstances, and to use troops for some type of land-confrontation is
madness.
        As of writing US troops have landed in Saudi Arabia, Pres.  Bush
has evidently finished playing gold, and the impotent cries of moral
indignation from British and US spokesman continue.  Whatever the outcome,
because the USA and its Allies were so slow and feeble responding, nothing
has been done to insure that militant Islam will not again be troublesome.
Just as the US should have immediately crippled Iran when hostages were
taken instead of showing its weakness before all Islam, it has again lost
its chance to contain Moslem fanaticism by its hesitant response when
dealing with Hussein.  Saddam Hussein may well be ousted fro Kuwait in the
present round, but Islam will have by no means been deterred in
contemplating future military adventures.  And next time the Moslem hordes
may be even better equipped than now, and covet those parts of Europe which
they had once occupied for so long.
        One factor which should be contemplated is the USSR as a potential
ally against Islam.  The Russians have long been guided by realpolitik,
rather than by the communist humbug they discarded over 60 years ago, other
than a means of undermining other nations.  Shedding their peripheral
Empire of Asiatics and Christians, the 'Great Russians' can only strengthen
their position.  Sixty million Moslems within the USSR can only be viewed
with suspicion by the Russians, when the rest of Islam is in ferment, and
considering the previous experience in Afghanistan, where Moslems in the
Soviet Army were given menial, non-combat roles.
        With the possibility of a future Jihad against the Infidel, as of
old, the Russians would be a valuable - perhaps a crucial ally.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                DEFINITIONS

(From An Alien's Dictionary, pp14-15):

Catholic:  Someone who feels they are being watched all the time (see
Guilt).

Christ:  The name of a man who died on a hill with the Cavalry (now known
as Cavalry Hill).
        Christ had twelve disciples called Matthew, Mark, Luke, John,
Genesis, Exodus...  and a few others.  He was buried in a tomb but he
didn't like it there so he now lives in God's right hand.  It is very
spacious and full of people who have been through the eye of a camel and
there is hardly anything boring on the television.
        Christ is famous for coming back to life every Christmas.  He used
to be a lamb of God but is now the Saviour which just shows what hard work
and dedication can do.  He is made of bread.

Christening:  an occasion where a baby human gets told who it is so it can
tell everyone who it is and then the adults get drunk.

Christmas:  a two-week period where people receive things and try to make
themselves ill.
        Three wise men, a donkey, some shepherds, and a baby called Chris
all have their birthday around this time.

Church:  a building where people meet every week.  They talk about christ
and living inside his body, which seems a bit odd to me.  There's also some
nasty business about drinking blood (See DRACULA).
        The man who stands at the front of the church has to make everybody
feel guilty and wave his arms about a lot (See ORCHESTRA).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is your great moment of reality- the living flesh...  these
self-frightened saints who bleat- "All is illusion"-; they offer fewer
alternatives to reality than half a wet dream.        - Austin Osman Spare

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

        SHOW YOUR SUPPORT...

Subscribe to The Watcher.  Literary contributions, art-work and
advertisements welcome.  Signed articles do not necessarily reflect the
views of the Editor.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - CUT HERE- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

                         SUBSCRIBE TO THE WATCHER

Name_____________________________________________

Address_______________________________________________________________________

One Year - NZ:  $4.00; Overseas - Surface:  $5.00; Air:  $10.00

                 Cheques payable to "Realist Publications"

To:  P.O.  Box 38-262, Petone, Wellington, New Zealand

IF A TICK APPEARS IN THE BOX YOUR SUBSCRIPTION IS NOW DUE [ ]

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - CUT HERE- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

Notes:

        The Watcher is brought to you in a slightly altered form on the
computer.  It lacks the pictures and title art of the original and has been
slightly restructured with respect to placement of advertisements and
subscription form.
        These issues of The Watcher are fairly old.  If you are considering
ordering anything from this issue it may be advisable to check out the
latest prices first.

                                 * - * - *

                    Typed in by Graeme Wilson (O.L.H.P.)

If you want more info on any OLHP productions or want more info on
Satanism, contact me via the following computer networks:

        Fidonet:  3:770/505
                  (Southern Vortex BBS, ph: +64 0-3-454-3900, 14.4k modem)
        Usenet:   fenris@otago.ac.nz

Also I may be contacted on other NZ BBS's:

        Alternative Reality: +64 0-3-471-0414
        Southern Lights:     +64 0-3-455-6016
        The Left Hand Path:  +64 0-3-454-5763 (my own BBS)
        Bad Dreams BBS:      +64 0-9-528-3577 (leave message to 'Lucifer')

If you wish to contact me via mail to swap texts, ideas, etc. then write
to:

                              Graeme Wilson
                              129 Scott Street
                              Waverley
                              Dunedin
                              South Island
                              New Zealand

