** ZOMBIE.TXT **

ZOMBIE MAGICK -- AN OPINION

        I guess this is an article I've wanted to write
for some time. It seems to me that there is a lot of
occult misinformation being bantered about. And a lot
of people are not being very nice about it. What I
write here is from the standpoint of an insider within
the occult community. I've noticed some very questionable
practices. Unfortunately, there doesn't seem to be much
that we can do to put a stop to them.
        Some of the more vocal members of the Christian
community do speak out against the occult. Unfortunately,
those that do are speaking out against *all* the occult.
They are missing the point completely. I feel there is
absolutely nothing wrong with the occult or 'new age'
(so called) per se, but there is indeed a problem with
*some* of it. For those who use the Christian Bible
as a rationalization for their condemnation of anything
occult (or anything else which they don't understand
or don't agree with) I can only hope they will study
and think more deeply on the matter. I suggest that
even the Bible does not condemn occultism in general,
but that it is critical regarding certain *types of
practices* -- something many people have overlooked.
I guess the best way to explain what I mean is with
some examples.
     Recently, Phil Donahue ran a television program
about 'Voodoo'. It managed to insult almost everyone,
and to malign legitimate voodoo, witchcraft, magick,
and Catholocism. It also contained a great amount
of misinformation. But the primary thing about it
which I take exeption to was the idea put forth by
a guest of the program who claimed to be a 'Voodoo
priestess', when she suggested that a love spell
was good magick. Wrong. Wrong. Wrong. Wrong. Wrong.
       For the type of love spell which she
demonstrated on the program was potentially very
bad. It was designed to force a lover who had left
to return. That means it was designed to exert an
overpowering influcence on the lover's will. Now,
while I think this is possilbe. I also think that
it is a very evil thing to do. To control someone
in an occult manner like that is Black Magick.
It is also very unethical, immoral, and selfish.
In addition to everything else, if the spell
works it probably won't last, and if it doesn't
it may 'recoil' against the practicioner. Black
magick is dangerous. It has always been dangerous.
       So-called psychics advertise widely in
newspapers and magazines. Of course many (most?)
of them are simple frauds. Cheating the public
has always been a popular way to make a living.
Of course some psychics are gifted, but the ones
that are any good probably don't need to advertise
very much. What concerns me most however, are
the ads which suggest that the psychic will
cast a spell for you or against your enemies.
That part against your enemies is Black Magick
once again. And we are seeing a lot of it, all
in the name of 'New Age'. Fine new age this is,
where you can pay someone to harm your enemies...
All of it perfectly legal.
        Suppose for a moment that you utilize
an occult love spell of some sort to cause a lover
who left you to return. If it works, what do you
have? Someone whose will has been manipulated.
Since the process is against the natural order of
things, the result will wear off. Meantime, what
you have is a Zombie. You are like a pupeteer
who holds all the strings. Freedom of action has
been violated. It isn't nice, and it isn't fun.
It is instead Zombie magick.
        And so we have seen that there are certain
widespread occult practices which are very negative.
It isn't a conspiracy. And it doesn't seem to be
a network of evil groups. It is more insideous
than that, for it is in every city, maskeraiding
under the name of power-over-others. The law can't
touch it. Nobody's even trying to put a stop to it.
