
                      What the Doctor says
                          What the Doctor really means

"This should be taken care of right away."
  "I'd planned a trip to Hawaii next month but this is so easy and
   profitable that I want to fix it before it curse itself."

"Welllllll, what have we here..."
  Since he hasn't the foggiest notion of what it is, the Doctor is
  hoping you will give him a clue.

"We'll see."
  "First I have to check my malpractice insurance."

"Let me check your medical history."
  "I want to see if you've paid your last bill before spending any
  more time with you."

"Why don't we make another appointment later in the week."
  "I'm playing golf this afternoon, and this w  -or-
  "I need the money, so I'm charging you for another office visit."

"I really can't recommend seeing a chiropractor."
  "I hate those guys mooching in on our fees."

"Hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm."
  Since he hasn't the faintest idea of what to do, he is trying to 
  appear thoughtful while hoping the nurse will interrupt.
  (Proctologist also say this alot.)

"We have some good news and some bad news."
  The good news is he's going to buy that new BMW, and the bad news
  is you're going to pay for it.

"Let's see how it develops."
  "Maybe in a few days it will grow into something that can be cured."

"Let me schedule you for some tests."
  "I have a 40% intrest in the lab."

"I'd like to have my associate look at you."
  "He's going through a messy divorce and owes me a small fortune."

"How are we today?"
  "I feel great. You, on the other hand, look like hell."

"I'd like to prescribe a new drug."
  "I'm writing a paper and would like to use you for a guinea."

"If it doesn't clear up in a week, give me a call."
  "I don't know what the hell it is. Maybe it will go away by itself."

"That's quite a nasty looking wound."
  "I think I'm going to throw up."

"This may smart a little."
  "Last week two patients bit through thier tongues."

"Well, we're not feeling so well today, are we?"
  "I can't remember your name, nor why you are here."

"This should fix you up."
  "The drug salesman guaranteed that it kills all symptoms."

"Everything seems to be normal."
  "I guess I can't buy that new beach condo after all."

"I'd like to run some more tests."
  "I can't figure out what's wrong. Maybe the kid in the lab can
  solve this one."

"Do you suppose all of this stress could be affecting your nerves?"
  He thinks you are crazy and is hoping to find a psychiatrist
  who will split fees.

"Why don't you slip out of your things."
  "I don't enjoy this any more than you do, but I've got to warm
  my fingers up somehow."
 -or-
  "I haven't had a good laugh all day."

"If those symptoms persist, call for an appointment."
  "I've never heard of anything so disgusting. Thank God I'm off
  next week."

"There is a lot of that going around."
  "My God, thats the third one this week. I'd better learn something
  about this."
