Newsgroups: alt.folklore.college
From: betel@camelot.bradley.edu (Robert Crawford)
Subject: The Kloo Gnomes
Message-ID: <betel.728428720@camelot>
Sender: news@bradley.bradley.edu
Organization: Bradley University
Date: 30 Jan 93 21:18:40 GMT
Lines: 229

	This is something that has been spreading around Bradley
University for the last year or so. This is the chief explanation, but
the basic idea is that Kloo Gnomes bring people the clues they need to
get through life. People who are apparently clue-less have "killed
their Kloo Gnomes." (The one documented example involves  someone who
dropped a brick on a squirrel when they were a kid. They thought it
was a rat.)

               The Not-So-Sacred Book of Kloos
 
                        Dedication
 
        This is dedicated to all the world's Kloo Gnomes,
 
                "The Kloo Gnomes Giveth, and
                        The Kloo Gnomes Taketh Away."
 
                        Forward
 
        I first saw my Kloo Gnome one night while I was in 
High School. I was calmly driving along after a date, when I 
heard a voice from the seat next to me. It definitely wasn't 
the radio, since I had Pink Floyd's Momentary Lapse of Reason 
in the player, and it was in the middle of an instrumental. 
The voice said something that truly surprised me:
        "Uh, do ya think ya could slow down a little?"
        This was surprising because I had been with my friend 
Mark when he took that very same curve at 80 in his Daytona.
        "Yeah, well, that was a Daytona. This is a Subaru. 
Your gonna kill us both."
        Apparently the voice was telepathic. I chanced a look 
over into the passenger seat, and saw him. He was a little 
guy, standing about 8 inches tall, wearing a ridiculous purple 
hat with a golden 'K' emblazoned upon it. Besides that 
ridiculous hat, his clothes were relatively normal -- jeans 
and a sweatshirt.
        "Who and what in the hell are you?" I asked, showing 
my typical level of tact.
        "Oh, shit," he responded, "you got me. OK, OK, I'm 
your Kloo Gnome."
        "Clue gnome?"
        "No, _KLOO_ Gnome, with a K and a capital G."
        "KGlue gnome?"
        "Buddy, your using your clues up fast. That's K-L-O-O 
G-N-O-M-E."
        "And what the fuck is a Kloo Gnome?"
        "Yah finally got it! I told the Director you weren't 
that dense!"
        "Thanks, I think."
        "Well, anyway, Kloo Gnomes are responsible for handing 
out clues."
        "Kloos?"
        "Clues."
        "Ah, OK."
        "Anyway, could ya slow down a little and let me out? 
That's all I'm required to tell you, so I'm free to go now."
        "Required to tell me?"
        "Well, when ya catch a leprechaun, its gotta tell you 
where its gold is, right?"
        "If you say so."
        "Well, all Kloo Gnomes gotta do is tell you what a 
Kloo Gnome is. It is, after all, the Ultimate Clue. Now will 
ya slow down, please?"
        "I'm only doing eighty."
        "Yeah, well, my squirrel can't just _start_ out at 
eighty, ya know."
        "No, I didn't. Squirrel?"
        "He's in the back seat. Don't worry, he's house 
trained."
        "Ok..."
        "Good, you're below sixty now. Goodbye!"
        With that he disappeared, and I could have sworn I saw 
a little figure riding a squirrel flash in my headlights for a 
split second.
 
        Needless to say, after that I calmly drove home. I was 
determined to find out more about Kloo Gnomes.
 
        Since then I have managed to catch my Kloo Gnome in 
the act four times. Each time I have been able to entice more 
information out of him. I have even been able to see some of 
the Sacred Books of Kloos, the history texts of the Kloo 
Gnomes. This, along with the information of others that have 
been Klooed in, has gone into the production of this text, The 
Not-So-Sacred Book of Kloos.
 
                        Kloo Gnomes
 
        Origin
        Early in human history we were, to put it mildly, 
clueless. A primitive woman brought a burning branch back to 
the campsight to provide warmth and light. One of the tribes 
men pissed on it, to put it out. A primitive woman shaved her 
legs with her husbands spear, resulting in his spear being too 
dull to bring down the next weeks meals. It was a sorry state 
of affairs.
        Whatever force put humanity on this planet (the Sacred 
Books of Kloo neglect to mention the nature of this force) 
decided Something Had to Be Done. And so it/he/she brought 
forth the Kloo Gnomes.
        In these days Kloo Gnomes were everywhere, busily 
spreading clues to humanity. They tried to concentrate certain 
clues no certain areas, but mistakes were made. For this 
reason nearly every culture on the planet developed the bow at 
the same time. Two culture were given the clues about 
pyramids. But the Kloo Gnomes got better at their trade.
        The very legends of the ancients speak of the Kloo 
Gnomes -- the SBOK mentions one called Prometheus, who gave 
fire to the wrong tribe, and was chained to a rock in the 
Sinai where hamsters nibbled at his penis for months on end. 
The legend was obviously altered for a more sensitive human 
audience.
        During this time the Kloo Gnomes developed into five 
distinct classes. The Grunt Kloo Gnomes were the field 
operatives, the guys in the field who delivered clues to 
humanity. There is one of them for every human being.
        The second class is the Bureaucrat, that group of Kloo 
Gnomes whose responsibility it is to decide who gets what clue 
when. It is remarkable to note that despite the Kloo Gnome's 
having developed bureauracracy, they still get things done.
        Third is the Researcher Kloo Gnome, the Gnomes that 
actually compile the clues. Theirs is the ultimate in pure 
research -- they have no idea who is going to get the clues 
they produce, and the products of their labor are meaningless 
to them.
        Fourth there is the Noble Kloo Gnomes. There are only 
a few dozen of these, for these are the rulers of the Kloo 
Gnome realm. One of them is King Kloo himself, the others 
include various princes and the heads of the Grunts, 
Bureaucrats, Researchers, and the Kavalry.
        The Kloo Kavalry is the military arm of the Kloo 
Gnomes. More about them later.
 
                        Leprechauns
 
        Early in the days of the Kloo Gnomes, some of the 
Gnomes decided that they would rather keep the clues for 
themselves. This group, under the leadership of Kloo Gnome 
Khan, split and took off for parts unknown. Since the split, 
the Kloo Gnomes have treated them like lepers, and thus their 
name, Leper-Khans.
        The leprechauns (to use the English corruption of the 
Klooish) have tried ever since to intercept the Grunt Kloo 
Gnomes, to kill them and steal the clues being delivered to 
humanity. They have even degenerated so far as to begin eating 
Kloo Gnomes, a practice that started sometime after the Great 
Clover Famine.
        The Kloo Gnomes haven't let this go unanswered, 
however. The Kloo Kavalry was formed to protect Grunts as they 
go about their business, and has been responsible for all of 
the anti-leprechaun measures that have been developed.
        The first battlefield between the Gnomes and the 
leprechauns was Britain. It was there that the Kavalry 
discovered that leprechauns didn't have the sense to step over 
a closed circle. The Kavalry built stone circles to serve as 
sanctuaries for the Grunts, the most famous of which is 
Stonehenge. The paths worn by the Grunts running from circle 
to circle have gone down into legend as the ley lines.
        This battle raged on for centuries, and sadly the 
leprechauns began to win. They forced the Gnomes back into the 
sanctuary of the civilization that had most benefited from 
their activities, Imperial Rome.
        The Romans had somehow realized the power of circles 
for increasing the supply of clues. Every city the Romans 
built included a circular Coliseum, where unbeknownst to the 
Romans, the Kloo Gnomes could seek shelter from the leprechauns.
        However the leprechauns knew how the Roman 
constructions were saving the Kloo Gnomes. They were now in 
control of northern Europe, and set the Germanic tribes to 
marching south.
        We all know the result of this war. The Kloo Gnomes 
were stuck in Byzantium until the Moslem minarets began to 
appear, creating yet another sanctuary for the Kloo Gnomes.
 
                        Squirrels
 
        Most Kloo Gnomes ride specially bred squirrels 
equipped with FTL drives. This allows them to deliver clues in 
a timely manner and has even allowed them to branch out to 
delivering clues to extra-terrestrials. The choice of 
squirrels is apparently a religious matter, and not all Grunts 
ride them. For example, the Mongolian Kloo Gnomes ride 
gerbils, the Western US Kloo Gnomes ride prairie dogs, and the 
Australian Kloo Gnomes had an aborted experiment with riding 
wallabies.
        Every member of the Kloo Kavalry rides a squirrel. 
These are special squirrels, brought up on campuses like 
Bradley's, and renowned for their ferocity and loyalty. In 
many ways they are the war-horses of the forest world.
        Leprechauns have never been seen riding animals, and 
in fact have their FTL systems rammed up their asses. Some of 
them, especially those born since WWII, have been seen 
hitching rides on vehicles, primarily Harley-Davidsons, 
Gremlins, Yugos, and Corvettes.
 
                        Circles and Clovers
 
        As mentioned above, Kloo Gnomes find refuge in 
circles. Leprechauns do not know they can step over the 
circle, so end up running around and around it until they pass 
out from exhaustion.
        On the other hand, leprechauns are attracted to 
clovers, and the large number of clover-leaf interchanges that 
have sprouted across the U.S. has been linked to the poor 
state of education.
        The appearance of crop circles in Britain in the last 
few years marks the development of a new Kavalry tactic. They 
bait some leprechauns, and them take off in a run. The 
leprechauns get ingrossed in the chase, and don't realize when 
the Kavalry has closed the loop and formed a circle within the 
high plants. The chase goes on until the circle is fully 
formed, and then the Kavalry retreats to the center of the 
circle to rest. The leprechauns realize that not only are they 
kept from the Gnomes by a circle, but that they are also 
within a circle. Trapped, they run continuously until they 
pass out. Then the Kavalry rides out and finishes them off.
        Most of the time the simple circle isn't enough, and 
the Kavaly ends of forming complexes of circles with lines 
between them. One ambush was ruined by a group of college 
students who tried to form their own crop circle, to prove 
that they were hoaxes.
 
     

--
Drink Tree Frog Dark!

Daffyd ap Madoc	ap Caradoc ap Conan merch Llwellyn ap Clydno ap Kynon
 