                           Guide to safe FAX

Q:  How well should I know the person to insure having safe fax?

A:  It generally helps to know the person you are faxing,
    especially if you want meaningful fax.  But there are many people who
    safely fax complete strangers every day.

Q:  If I fax something to myself, will I go blind?

A:  Certainly not. But you should not allow faxing yourself to
    interfere with faxing others.

Q:  I fax numerous times a day.  Is this normal?  My friends say
    I fax to much.

A:  Yes, it is normal.  But be careful to allow enough time for
    other activities such as eating and sleeping.  And about your
    friends: They're probably just jealous.

Q:  There is a place down the street where you can go paty for
    fax.  Is this legal?

A:  Yes.  Many people have no other outlet for their fax drives
    and must pay a professional when their need for fax becomes to great.

Q:  Should a cover always be used when faxing?

A:  Unless you are really sure of the person you are faxing, a
    cover should be used to insure safe fax.

Q:  I have a personal and a business fax.  Can transmission
    become mixed up?

A:  Being bi-faxual can be confusing, but as long as you use a
    cover with each one, you won't transmit anything you're not supposed
    to.

Q:  Is it ethical to fax your co-workers?

A:  Yes.  Faxing is okay between consenting adults, but be
    certain that you are not engaging in faxual harassment or else you may
    lose your job, or worse end up in jail.

Q:  How old do you think someone should be before they can fax?

A:  Faxing can be performed at any age, as long as the person
    knows which switches to flip, which buttons to push, and what is
    inserted where.

Q:  What happens when I incorrectly do the procedure and I fax
    prematurely?

A:  Don't panic.  Many people prematurely fax when they haven't
    faxed in a long time.  Just start over.  Most people won't mind if
    you try again.
