

Info gleaned from various sources


THE RELEASE OF THE COOPER MATERIAL

There are many hazards regarding the exposing of information regarding UFOs. It
has not been until quite recently that any degree of safety at all has been
available for people releasing such information. Were it not for the fact that
Cooper released his information so far and wide and it filtered to so many
people at once -- newspapers, legislators, heads of state, people in important
positions all over the world -- he would have suffered severely. But because it
was scattered so quickly, it would have been fruitless to silence him after the
information had been released. It would only have added to the credibility of
the information. At the beginning of 1990, there was still an active debate in
certain circles about what to do about Cooper -- whether to deal with him in a
threatening manner or to simply discredit him. A campaign planned to use
approximately one million dollars worth of effort to discredit him. The money
was to be used to imply that Cooper made up or gathered information from
various sources and threw it together for a personal financial motive. It was
not to come through normal media channels, but through UFO magazines and
newsletters in the form of articles and exposes and through UFO groups, most of
which are controlled. Alternate UFO scenarios were also to be released so that
by the time 1990 ended, many different scenarios would be floating around.
People would be unable to decipher which one was true and which one wasn't. As
long as interest was shown in the Cooper material by only a small group of
people who happened to be curious about UFOs, there was to be no action taken.
But if Cooper's material was taken seriously by credible people, these would be
the target for the efforts to discredit him. Enormous amounts of previously
highly classified information have been brought out into the open. We now have
a situation where, individuals, instead of being forced to remain silent for
fear of assassination are not afraid to tell what they know. Too many have
seen. Too many have witnessed. They cannot all be silenced. This is the
beginning of the end of the security surrounding this situation. Therefore, the
following information shall be released.

THE SPECIES CLASSIFIED The present number of alien types having contact with
the earth right now is nine, with seven being relatively permanent and five
being influential. Contrary to the information that the government might
release, not all UFO inhabitants are friendly representatives from the Galactic
Space Confederation.


ZETA RETICULI GREYS -- SMALL Zeta Reticuli Greys come from Zeta Reticulan, near
Barnard's Star, which is a neighboring star system to Orion. They are very
short (about 3 1/2 to 4 feet tall), grayish silver in color and have no sexual
or digestive parts to their bodies. They are created through a cloning process
of alien genetic engineering. They are an ancient race and have reproduced
themselves for thousands of years. They have very limited facial features. They
have large eyes, a very small slit for a mouth and no nose to speak of. The
eyes are large almond-shaped and black. They have evolved beyond the sexual
reproduction process so that all sexual organs and their digestive tracts have
totally atrophied. They are no longer capable of eating or indulging in sexual
activities. They are a close relative to the insect family. The Zetas are the
ones involved in the cattle mutilations. They absorb certain substances from
parts of the cattle that stabilize them during the cloning process. This can be
placed under the tongue to give sustenance and stability for some time. It is a
substance that comes from certain mucus membranes: the lips, nose, genitals and
rectum, and also from certain organs. These glandular substances serve as
nutrients in lieu of eating. Resting the substances under the tongue is not the
only way they get nutrition. You may have noticed that the cattle mutilations
generally result in all the blood being drained from the body. The Zetas have
in their bases canisters and vats in which animal and human organs float along
with a purple liquid to hold these parts in suspension. The Zetas swim in the
mixture and absorb the nutrients through their skin. They use hydrogen peroxide
in both the absorption and elimination process. The hydrogen peroxide also
helps to preserve the liquid and organ mixture to keep it from spoiling. They
have no digestive tract and eliminate through the skin. To eliminate, they need
to pass the substance through some part of their body, much the same way plants
eliminate through their skin or outer shells. They use hydrogen peroxide for
helping with that elimination as well. The Zetas have also been referred to as
the Little Green Men because they tend to turn a shade of green when they have
not received sufficient food. When they are in this state, they are very
vicious. The cloning of these aliens can be done quite quickly, reproducing
synthetic replicas. They have a technology that is much beyond that of humans
and that has led to the agreements with the United States government whereby
exchanges of these techniques could occur. The Zeta Reticuli Greys are not
masters of their own fate. They are, rather, subservient to a reptilian race of
people from their home planet. The Zetas seek, but are fearful of, freedom from
their masters. They seem to have some desire to work closely with humans in an
effort to retain the freedom they have on earth, which they have never
experienced before. In their desire to retain that freedom from their reptilian
masters, they would hope to play the role of being masters here on earth, or at
least having enough control so as to be safe from slavery by any other species.
The Zetas are of two social classes, one being hawkish, the other more
dove-like. The more dove-like Zetas are more refined and capable of more
business-like behavior toward humans, while the other type is more abrupt,
blunt and crude in their directness. The Zetas desire the help of humans in an
expected future confrontation with the reptilian masters who are expected to
follow soon, within the next 20 years. This refers to the so-called asteroid
that is on its way toward earth. It is housing approximately 30 million
reptilian aliens. It has, however, temporarily diverted its path as it moves
into the constellation of Draco.

BELLATRAX GREYS -- SHORT The short Grey, which is shorter than the Zeta
Reticuli, is from a star system near the Orion constellation, near the shoulder
of the figure in a star system called Belletrax. They are shorter, much like
dwarves (about 1 1/2 feet tall). They are more indirect, but just as vicious
towards humans as the Zetas. Both the Bellatrax Grays and the Zeta Reticuli
Greys are related genetically from the same root race and look very much alike
except for size.

ORION GRAYS -- TALL The other type of Grey is the tall, big-nosed Grey. They
have large noses and stand about 7 or 8 feet tall. They are based in the
Aleutian Islands and recently were witnessed in a park in the Eastern part of
Russia. These creatures are hostile, but less vicious toward humans. They tend
to try to influence through the use of political controls. They have certain
powers and technologies that allow them to perform actions that appear
miraculous. In the Russian incident, a woman whose leg was deformed was picked
up by these Orion Greys and was released thousands of miles away. Her leg was
healed. The aliens did not heal her leg. They transplanted a new leg onto her
body. The Orion Grays give the impression that they are benevolent towards
humans, but they are heavily into genetic engineering. They use humans as
guinea pigs to conduct various experiments. They have grown arms and legs and
other body parts in a formless matrix made from human flesh. A leg may grow out
of a torso, hands might grow from the middle of the torso's stomach. All this
is done through the injecting of certain genomes into flesh and the application
of electromagnetic charges. In this way they can grow human body parts to help
deformed or injured humans -- or for their own purposes of food and sustenance.
They are interested in controlling the masses of the earth through certain
negotiated agreements with those in power.

ALL GREYS The Greys are all, to some degree, influencing human history at this
time. The nature of the Greys, especially the Zeta Reticuli and the short
Greys, is that they do not have deep emotional feelings or compassion. They are
very calculating, cold intellectuals and see humans as being inferior. They
look at humans much the same way a farmer looks at his cows. They understand
the passions and compassion of humans to the degree it is observable by them.
But they do not have feelings. These aliens are on the equivalent human level
of cannibals. They see humans being an inferior species. They are carnivorous.
The Zeta Reticuli Greys feed upon glandular secretions of humans and are quite
capable of killing people for that secretion, or abducting humans and
extracting the secretions for themselves. The genetic manipulation is one way
that the aliens see as evolving and saving their dying race. In a sense, humans
are suddenly the saviors of the souls of the aliens. But at least it is a way
that humans may have an influence on the aliens. This is not the first time
that a civilization has attempted to absorb an enemy rather than defeating it.
While the enemy invader may assume that they are taking over, they are in fact
being absorbed. The Tartars invaded Russia and within a hundred years were
absorbed into Russian society.

PLEIADEANS Of the five, those from the Pleiades are entities who are distant
relatives of humankind. They are related to and are the forefather race of the
genetic creation of humankind. They are of a higher spiritual development than
most people on earth at this time. They have a kinship towards humans, and are
essentially the only aliens who can to be trusted by humans. They have blonde
hair and fair skin. They are allied with the Intergalactic Space Confederation.
That doesn't mean that all entities of human appearance in space craft can or
should be trusted, for there are humans from this planet from various
governments who are working for the Zeta Reticuli Grays. Some from the Pleiades
are subordinates to the Grays, having been abducted as children or offspring of
the abductees. They have been raised and trained by the Grays as servants. The
humans from the Pleiades have made several earth contacts, but in recent times
have suspended visitations to earth. The government was told that this was
because of a space law that states that the destiny of a people shall not be
interfered with unless it threatens themselves or others in the galaxy. If the
threat of nuclear war became strong enough, these entities indicated that they
might interfere, but only to the degree of reducing that threat. That could
also set up a conflict between the Pleiadeans and the Zeta Grays, to whom a
limited nuclear war is seen as beneficial. Since the humans have made an
agreement and pact with the Zeta Greys, even though there were warnings by the
Pleiadeans against this, there is now a "hands off" policy. The Pleiadeans feel
that the humans have made their bed and now they must lie in it. It is not
likely that humans will be rescued from planned events simply to make things
easier for humans to overcome the masters they have agreed to work with.

DRACO MOTHMEN In the constellation of Draco, there is another race of entities
which has in the past visited Earth. They are 8-foot-tall. dark, nocturnal
aliens who appeared around graveyards and parks. They have red eyes that glow
in the dark and wings to fly. They are referred to by us as Mothmen. They are
also the source of legends of the past relating to gargoyles and Valkeries.
Even some qualities of vampires have been taken from the qualities of this
creature -- the ability to fly and nocturnal habits. The Mothmen have no
particular influence on earth at this time other than as causing panic and a
cause for curiosity. They are mostly hidden underground and do not wish to
attract attention.

DEROS/TEROS There are also underground civilizations of non-humans that have
been referred to as Deros and Teros. The Teros are more friendly and help keep
the Deros, who are more demented, from having excessive power. They live
underground in tunnels, cities and sometimes under the sea. Most of the legends
of the past of leprechauns and trolls refer to these non-humans from the inner
earth. The Deros are competitors with the Greys, but they have similar
qualities and cannot be trusted.

THE GOVERNMENT CONNECTION Crisis management is a term used by the government to
describe the scenario where a crisis situation is created and then the people
are presented with solutions, usually three, which they would be reluctant to
accept prior to the crisis. The solutions always involve the shoring up of
security, which necessarily means the loss of some freedoms. When the situation
has reached the crisis stage, it appears as if there is no other alternative.
It appears as if the crisis just happened rather than being carefully planned.
Crisis management is a way to create the illness for which the pill has already
been invented. By creating a problem in order to supply a cure that would not
have been acceptable without the problem, the government is able to manipulate
the people, making it look as though it is benevolent in handing the situation
on behalf of the people, when in fact, it is directing the movement of the
people along a specific path that has already been chosen. The current drug
crisis is a case in point, although there is a connection to alien base funding
that makes it a very special scenario. A tremendous amount of information has
linked the United States government with the drug trade since at least the
1960s. The Christic Institute filed suit, but was successfully neutralized. The
government information that is being released is a subtle form of convincing
the public that the military must be used to do what is really the job of the
local police; for the military to shoot down airplanes suspected of carrying
drugs; for the military to be used in foreign countries. The coming currency
call-in is related to drug money laundering. There is a continuing call for the
banning of all firearms because of their use in criminal activity, particularly
drug-related crimes. The ban on assault weapons will soon be extended to every
gun. A declaration of martial law, with the resulting major security upgrade to
deal with the alien crisis, will be much easier when these things occur. The
drug situation started out as a social experiment back in the 1800s. There was
a question of whether people could be controlled by the use of drugs and to
what extent. There was at one time a belief that by getting the population
hooked on drugs, they would work at a cheap wage, with only the reward of food,
shelter and drugs to keep them satisfied. The experiment, however, resulted in
the realization that those on drugs are not satisfied with working. They want
to steal from others and are willing to become violent to do so. The experiment
also revealed that while crime increases in the United States would justify
creating a police force, the economic structure at that time was not sound
enough to pay for such a police state. The entire concept became less appealing
and more hazardous to the government. The experiment ran its course, and
yielded little in terms of the controlling effects that were desired. The side
benefit, however, was billions of dollars in profits from the selling of drugs.
The drug situation has assisted the funding of the aliens in building their
underground civilization. Much of this money has gone into helping them in
their efforts to establish bases underground. In exchange, the United States
got technology a promise that the aliens would not go to war with the United
States or other countries of the world. The aliens gave the United States and
the Soviet Union particle beam weapons, laser technology, Stealth technology,
some supercomputer technology, information on cloning and synthetic genetic
duplication of humans, some medical breakthroughs, and technology associated
with frequencies, vibrations and the electromagnetic spectrum such as ELF waves
and rail gun technology. The techniques of interdimensional travel have still
been kept secret from humans. About 15 percent of human genetic coding has been
researched by universities in the United States. It has allowed them to splice,
remove, delete and add to the genetic code in order to change it. It can be
used for destroying or creating diseases, destroying or creating plants,
animals and other life forms -- anything that may be tampered with genetically.
This effort to map out and decode all of the DNA available is one of the
reasons that many of the creatures on Level 6 of the Dulce Base were created or
altered genetically. There has recently been a breakthrough in the need for
blood by these aliens, in that cattle blood has been altered so that it suits
their needs. It is a side-effect from the experimentation that involved the
cattle mutilations. Much of the blood and tissues that they need could be
supplied from slaughterhouses and there would be no more mutilations. There has
been a continuing massive effort to fund the aliens through various means --
not only drugs, but manipulated oil prices and other methods -- to keep them
pacified long enough to determine how best to deal with them. The choice was to
coexist with them while secretly expanding the country's technologies in order
to deal with them in the event of a conflict. This has given greater time for
the technology of humans to close the gap with the technology of the aliens. It
has been assessed that in recent years that the aliens have not been honoring
the treaties and agreements and therefore, are not to be trusted. The effort to
cut off their funding has begun, and one of the routes for cutting off funding
is to shut down the drug traffic and the influx of money from the drug cartel.
Noriega was one of those involved in helping set up the money chain that
assisted the aliens. His arrest is a strong signal that the pipeline of money
to the aliens will no longer be open. The Colombian Cartel is also ceasing
operations. The shutting down of the drug cartel is a first step in removing
the power of the aliens and pulling back from the agreements. Government
projections indicate that pulling support from the clandestine drug trade will
curtail the United States drug problem by 1993, unless it is artificially
stimulated again as a pretext to martial law. It may not be necessary however,
if the release of certain information makes national security paramount. It
must be understood that there was an enormous problem for the government when
it discovered that the earth was actually being held hostage to an alien
influence and that there was no reasonable technology for dealing with this
alien influence. President Truman made a considerable effort to engage in
combat with these aliens, but the technology of the United States at the time
was not advanced enough to even begin to have an effect. Therefore, the only
option -- short of total obliteration of the human race in an all-out war --
was to form agreements for building, expanding and funding these bases.
Americans may judge harshly the government for its action, but it was put in a
very difficult and desperate situation in regard to national security. One
choice was to inform the people. Projections were that they would become
outraged, perhaps destroying the very fabric of society. Mobs were projected to
demand military action against a force which the government knew would be far
superior. Projections also indicated people would demand the resignation of
persons in office. They would be perceived as having been making deals with an
alien enemy without the people knowing of this. Under normal circumstances and
under the Constitution, that could be classed as treason. The government has
functioned in a manner it perceived to be in the best interest of humankind.
Yet it has also been put in a predicament whereby it could be misjudged as
having worked in collaboration with a foreign invading army. Had the government
opposed the invaders, however, it would have lead to mass destruction of
humanity. Even nuclear weapons had little usefulness in dealing with foreign
invaders on our own soil. The public cannot begin to understand what these
people have gone through in terms of soul-searching and trying to find the best
way to deal with the crisis which they were forced to manage. The option of
informing the people appeared less viable and workable than to silently make
negotiated deals with the aliens to keep them pacified over a period of time in
an attempt to find a peaceful way of coexistence. MJ 12 and those who have been
subordinate feel they have done everything possible and appropriate for the
intense situation of hosting aliens with much greater technology on the earth.
It has done all it felt was proper to preserve peace and to gain information
from the aliens in order to develop higher technology. It has also hidden vital
information and shielded certain knowledge when necessary from the aliens in
order to create weaponry that may be used against them in the event of
conflict. There is now some division and debate between those in the upper
echelons as to whether they should simply inform the people of the problem or
continue to keep it quiet. Until this debate swings one way or the other, it is
relatively hazardous to release too much information on this. If it is decided
that this information must be kept quiet, many of the sources that are
releasing this information will become targets for harassment or assassination.
But the scenario now reveals that unless information is released by the
authorities and is accepted by the vast majority of people, most Americans will
not accept the information from an individual that claims to have inner
knowledge of the government's cover-up. There was an attempt to test whether
the public would panic at the thought of invasion from aliens. It was the radio
broadcast of Orson Welles in 1938. The public reacted with panic and many
committed suicide. There is an effort now to condition the people to be more
willing to accept an alien presence as a possibility using movies and
television -- Star Wars, ET, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Aliens, V,
Alien Nation and War of the Worlds. All of these are presenting various images
and scenarios to condition the human mind to be open to what may soon be
reality. The government does not direct a studio to make these movies or TV
shows, but scripts are submitted certain people who are silent partners with
certain agencies encourage the script to be used and help find funding sources
to keep the script alive. The alien Nation scenario conditions the human mind
to accept the presence of aliens who are relatively friendly and who can
coexist with humans. War of the Worlds, which contains a scenario of humanoid
replicas and aliens living underground, shows the conflict between the aliens
and humans. ET allows people not to be paranoid or fearful when thinking of
aliens, as they may in fact be friendly. It gave people the capacity to deal
with frightening information that may otherwise cause serious insecurity. Right
now there are so many different types of aliens being offered to the human mind
that people can accept or reject any or all of them. People are gradually being
conditioned to the possibility of being informed officially. If that time
comes, there will not be a great shock. In 1938, people did not have the
preparation, and even though aliens on earth were already a reality, they were
not even prepared for a fictional representation. Only now are people being
told about the plan to set up a moon base that would later lead to a Mars
landing and a Mars base. There has been a moon base for quite some time, in the
crater Copernicus. The United States officially controlled the base until 1979,
when it was learned that the aliens were working with both the Soviets and the
Americans. The Soviets gained the advantage at that time and took over the
base. But even though there are competitions here and there, much of the cold
war was actually a facade in order to extract huge sums of money for other
purposes. Much of it was being diverted to developing technologies that have
yet to be brought out and that may be needed in the event of conflict. The
Tesla approach has for many decades been ignored by the United States. But it
has been developed and used in the Soviet Union. It is now being used in the
United States as a part of the Star Wars program to enhance and move further
into the higher technologies. The Star Wars technology is essentially designed
to assist in dealing with the alien factor and the potential conflict. The
Soviets already have laser cannons, beam weapons, certain types of shielding
fields, anti-detection fields that can be used to meet with other humans and
speak about plans without being monitored by the aliens. Much of the apparent
corruption of the government is actually based on this dilemma of how to deal
with this alien situation. There were certain benefits derived from agreements
with the aliens as indicated in the works of Cooper, especially in regards to
the Trilateralists and those who were involved in direct relationships with the
aliens. But this government was not alone in dealing with the alien situation.
The aliens were also connected with the Bolsheviks in the Soviet Union and also
the Nazis. Much of the technology that the Nazis were developing during the war
was actually given them by the aliens, who were in part behind the Nazi rise to
power and the influences associated with some of the hidden philosophies of
Hitler and those of the inner group. During the time immediately following
World War II, the sightings of UFOs in various parts of the world were quite
frequent, with an aura of mystery and much government scrambling to discover
what the purpose of the aliens were. The government was aware of their presence
and had agreements that reached back to 1933, although they were not always
sure what the aliens were up to during all of this time. Later, the technology
exchange between the United States and these aliens began to have its greater
influence and the funding action began. It was in the 1930s that the Nazis had
closer ties with the Zeta Reticuli Greys. More on that in another upload.

ALIEN BASES There are alien bases in Brazil, Argentina, the United States, the
Aleutian Islands, China, the Arctic and Antarctica, New Zealand and Australia,
Canada and those that are underwater in various oceans on the earth. There have
been a number of bases within the United States. Some of these were closed by
secret raids of government teams that were especially established to defuse the
influence and presence of these bases, particularly during the 1960s and early
1970s. These DELTA teams would go down into various caves to shut down certain
computers and in the event they ran into any aliens inhabiting the caves, there
would be an engagement. They were successful in some areas and failed in
others. This occurred in many more areas than just the Dulce Base. Later these
teams were stopped by MJ-12 and a cooperative effort was made to work with the
aliens until it was again discovered that the aliens were not honoring their
agreements and were not to be trusted. Most who were involved with such teams
have since died for one reason or another, often under mysterious
circumstances. Many of those who were working to hinder the aliens were
covertly killed, especially those who had special skills in raiding these
caves. Most caves in the United States in general are usually safe unless there
are straight, carved walls and smooth floors. Those are generally artificially
created entrances to an underground base. They should be avoided unless you
would like to end your existence. Likewise, those who see a spacecraft would be
foolish to walk up to it or approach it. Those who have been abductees do not
usually report great benefits from the experience. Generally, abductees have
been used as guinea pigs for experimentation and have disappeared permanently.
Many of the missing children have, in fact, been taken by aliens.

ABDUCTIONS About one in every hundred people has been abducted by a UFO whether
they know it or not. There is a blue ray which they use during the abductions
that captures people and beams them up into the ship. The action of being
beamed into the ship with a blue ray actually suffocates the person, casing all
oxygen to be sucked from the person's cells, so that they hover near death for
a moment. Upon arrival in the ship, they are revived by another ray that
restores oxygen into the cells. Many abductions are of a quite cruel nature.
Humans would not want to remember what happened in some of the clinical
experimentation or examinations that occurred. The aliens have a vacuum tube
that follows up through the rectum and around into the intestines, sucking out
fecal matter, which they examine for purposes of their own research. They are
looking at the kinds of food that was eaten and examining the effects on the
person's health. They implant chips through the nose, the back of the neck and
the back of the head near the right ear during times when the subject is
conscious, but in a state of mental and physical paralysis. The subject is not
unconscious as if they were sedated. The aliens have the ability to block the
memory of the experience through the use of certain injections and drugs into
specific areas of the brain. Zeta Greys abduct humans and use them for genetic
experiments. They take the souls from those humans and put them in replicas and
release them after having altered them to some degree. They may appear to be
the same person -- and the soul is in fact the same, the body is new -- and
certain aspects of the memory and personality have been altered slightly. The
aliens create replica bodies into which souls are transplanted from one body
into another. This has been portrayed on the television series War of the
Worlds. This is a means by which these aliens snatch bodies and control people
to make them their own. Much of this occurs in underground caverns. When people
who have been disappear for some time and then are released, there is a
possibility that this has occurred to them. The aliens do not see this as
cruel. It is simply their unusual culture. They have been abducting humans for
centuries. They see the earth as a big farm and have been raising humans for
their harvest. They often abduct them and take them back to their home planet
to raise there as a form of animal husbandry. Their main problem is with their
cloning process. In the recloning, each copy of each copy of each copy weakens
repeatedly so that they are, in effect, a dying race. This has stimulated their
interest in creating a new being through genetic engineering, using human or
some other source as a new genetic substance to renergize the cloning process,
or to create a merging of their own race with another.

END OF COLD WAR, REPTILIANS HEADING THIS WAY There is much that has not been
released in the Cooper information, which is generally very accurate as far as
it goes. Much more will surface in the coming decade, eventually being given by
people within the government. There is now a conflict between two factions
within the government agencies. One faction sees the necessity of working with
the aliens to set up a One World government in which it sees itself as being
the power behind the throne. The other faction sees the aliens as a threat to
humanity and wishes to expose the information, let the public know and prevent
the aliens from gaining control of the planet. Those who are collaborators with
the aliens do not want the information released. They are continuing the
cover-up out of fear that the people would blame them, consider them traitors
and hold them responsible for for all that is due to an alien presence. There
was a time when these leaders realized that many humans were being sacrificed
to feed the alien appetites. They had a choice of making a clean break with the
aliens or at least of telling the people or of continuing the cover-up. They
chose not to. The alien threat is the single major factor in the attempt to
unify and harmonize nations of the earth. The threat is not only from those who
are already present on the earth in their bases, but also from craft that have
been recognized as being on their way to earth. To stop this cooperative
effort, there are certain elements attempting to stir up heavy conflicts in
certain areas, particularly to bring down Gorbachev and his reforms. These are
being influenced by the aliens, through their agents. There are many people who
have been implanted with chips over the years and they are being activated now.
It doesn't appear there is sufficient energy behind the the alien endeavor at
this time, however. The money supply for the aliens which has been extorted
from governments and government agencies is gradually diminishing. It's being
cut off and is hindering the construction and development of many of their
projects and plans. This has weakened them. There is a hidden war in progress,
but one that is not highly charged. It is on a level of quiet competition
between the aliens and the governments of the world. But there are certain
elements of humans that are working hand in hand with the aliens trying to help
regain control of the governments which the aliens once controlled. Within
Cooper's material, there is a reference to the Fatima prophecy, being that
which aliens pulled out of the future. The aliens claim to have the ability see
into the future and have helped bring about this apparition. Before the aliens
revealed it, a longstanding theory by this government was that the unreleased
third Fatima prophecy dealt with a nuclear war and its aftermath. This prophecy
was kept hidden from the people. What was not revealed, however, was that the
alien situation was directly linked to this nuclear war prophecy. In truth, the
aliens were hoping to contribute to instability on this earth so that nuclear
war would come. It was their intention to bring about enough devastation on the
earth so as to make the planet easily conquerable, while still retaining some
degree of human life to serve them as slaves. With their technologies, they can
eliminate radioactive contamination. They planned to inhabit the remains of the
earth without any threat of human domination. But the scenario of the Fatima
prophecies is in no way preordained. Rather, it was a timetable of the alien
plans to conquer the earth. It was scheduled to begin in February 1990, but it
was not written in stone. It was simply the intention of the aliens to begin
then. At that time, it was intended by the aliens that the information about
them be released by the government so that humans would be prepared to accept
the inevitable outcome. They had hopes of triggering the exchange of nuclear
weapons -- preferably in the Middle East where people are expecting Armageddon
to begin -- and then suddenly stop the escalation with their own technology.
They would then pass themselves off as divine beings and bring forth the
Millennium. There are certain efforts which are being attempted at present to
use the Book of Revelation to create the appearance of a coming Messiah. This
timetable for the Armageddon/Second Coming scenario has been dashed recently by
the lessening of the threat of nuclear war. It was at a fever pitch in the
early and mid-1980s, but has since died down. The aliens have, in effect,
missed that window of opportunity. The people are not now expecting a nuclear
war and the Fatima timetable is of little use to the aliens. But they have not
abandoned it. It has simply been shifted to begin around 1992. The government
believes, however, that the people will not accept this scenario as being true.
Many have been conditioned by the Book of Revelation into believing that they
will be rescued, but for the most part people will not believe it and will
assume it is in fact, one of the false prophet Biblical scenarios predicted
before the actual Second Coming. There is a strong potential that during this
decade the aliens and humans will clash in combat over domination of the earth.
There is a potential that this could be covert, but it may become overt. The
possibility of reconciliation is growing more remote as the aliens seem less
ready to negotiate a situation in which coexistence can occur. It should not to
be ruled out, however. Pressures are now being put on the aliens which may lead
to a more conciliatory stand. This following information been deemed unsuitable
for the public at this time and there have been and will be more killings to
keep such information secret. There is a threat of an invasion of 30 million or
more reptilian aliens which control of the Greys. There are smaller numbers of
smaller ships heading this way, but nothing compared in size to the small
planetoid that is heading toward this planet, which is approximately the size
of the state of Pennsylvania. It does not travel at above light speed as do
other craft because it is so enormous and holds so many aliens. It passed near
the planet in 1989, dropped off some reptilian aliens and headed out to the
Draco constellation in early summer of 1989. The timetable for the arrival back
to earth is approximately 2020, depending on what may happen near Draco. The
Hubble Telescope has as its primary mission the task of tracking the return of
the craft. The base in Dulce, New Mexico now has 100,000 aliens living within
it at this time. Another 100,000 more have moved through the Dulce Base to
other bases. The aliens continue to enter the earth at a rate of 20,000 per
month. The base at Ada, Oklahoma is still very active. The recent floods
artificially created and allowed there were an attempt to slow and hinder
activities there. The aliens are attempting to move their entire planetary
population from their dying planet as quickly as possible, prior to the arrival
of the Draco reptilians. Presently, the assessment of those in the inner
circles who are dealing with the alien invasion threat is that the Reptilians
have every intention of ruling this planet. There are many who feel that the
aliens have such a high technology that they cannot be defeated. The next
potential scenario in relation to the expected invasion is the release by the
government of of the information relating to the Grays and their earth bases,
but releasing it in such a way that is favorable to the government. Claims will
be made that any other version is but that of troublemakers. If the release of
information comes before 1996, and especially if it occurs prior to 1995, you
can be correct in assuming it is staged by the government to set up the
atmosphere for a One World government. If it is held off until 1996 or
thereafter, you can assume the information released is real and that the
Reptilian ship is heading this way and poses a real threat. The Draco
Reptilians do not really need the earth. They have more room than they need to
grow and thrive. They simply want the earth as a kind of strategic point in
their battle to conquer the entire galaxy. The Pleiadeans may return by 1993,
and you would know them by their ships, which have the symbol of a serpent
climbing a vine. The symbol for the Reptilians is a dragon. The Grey's symbol
is a cobra. There is also a potential for martial law occurring in this
country, in which many of those troublemakers, who hold to the story that the
government was involved with the aliens in the abduction of humans, would be
rounded up and imprisoned along with many who have been implanted because of
potential threats to this country's security. People who are releasing this
information are not fully out of danger just because many people know about it.
You may recall that in China, just about everyone knew what occurred in
Tiananmen Square, and yet today, you will not find anyone in China who will
talk about it. There is now an open window in which people can talk, spread the
word, discuss it, show the videos and photographs. The more that occurs now,
before a martial law crackdown, the more chance there is of having the truth
come out. Once that window is closed, if enough people are not already
informed, the information could still be curtailed and hidden. At present, only
2 to 3 percent of the United States population has half of the story and only
one half percent has the full story.

                                                                                                                        \   \   Zt Format Convert Other Macros ExVarious.TXT   TEXTMSWD          TEXTMSWD                        ¢Ÿ4L  ¢ç  ∂    McSk   	         ˇˇˇˇˇˇ            ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ            ˇˇˇˇˇˇ              P     MSWD    	          ˇˇˇˇˇˇ       @ 	Monaco      4ˇ ñ ‹ˇˇ   † E.ñˇ Y.   êˇ     [î                 &   &     \   \   Z B˙j    Z EFNT   ETAB   &EPO

