MISSION IMPOSSIBLE
------------------

You've always wanted to be a secret agent, right?  Right! Well, now you have 
the chance... and there isn't much time left, so it's best to get started.
Play the tape recorder, and listen carefully. Then get the recorder, and go
west and south to the grey room. Sit in the chair, then push the red button
first and the white one next. Now, get up and look. There's a picture of you
here. Pick it up; it's important!

Now comes the hardest part of the game. You have to kill a little time until
the saboteur croaks, then look in various rooms until you find him. There's
nothing you can do about that, so for a while you're just going to be on your
own. Think of it as a good opportunity to practice map-making skills.

Once you've found the dead saboteur, frisk him ("Frisk Saboteur"). Get his
picture, then get him (yes, you're going to be lugging a dead body around for
a while). Now, make your way to the white door. There's no way I can give you
directions for this, since there's no telling where you found the saboteur
(that's why you should have made a map!). When you get there, "Show Picture."
The program will always assume you're showing the right one, if you have it.
The door will open and you will be inside. Now, drop the saboteur (whew! he
was heavy!), and break the window with the tape recorder.

The TV camera will come on and scan the room. "Show Picture" again... this
time, it's the picture of the saboteur. The camera will scan the picture, then
the saboteur, and turn itself off. Now you can go out the window and pick up
the yellow key on the window ledge. Go back inside, and drop the two pictures
you're carrying, since you won't need them anymore. Push the white button and
the door will open, allowing you to leave. Now, go South, down, and South
again to the grey room.

Sit in the chair and unlock the yellow button. Press the yellow button first,
then the white one. Stand up and get the picture, then head North, down, and
North to the maintenance room. Get the mop and shake it. Drop the mop and get
the key. Also pick up the wirecutters. Now, head back East to the corridor and
push the yellow button. Drop the picture, then go South, up, and South to the
grey room again.

Sit in the chair and unlock the blue button. In this order: blue, red, white,
press each button and get out of the chair. Drop the key, get the picture, and
go North. Then turn West and pick up the pail. Now, go East, North, and North
to the blue door, and show the picture. Once inside, drop the key and go West
to the store room. Get the radiation suit and wear it, then fill the pail with
water. Return East and open the control room door. It won't be easy, but you
can do it! After that, go East into the break room and leave the pail there.

Now, go West into the control room, then down to where the bomb is. Cut the
wires and get the bomb. Then, go up and East to the break room. Get the pail,
then pour water. WHEW!!! The bomb is deactivated! You have successfully
completed your mission!!! (Now you can take it easy for a while... let's just
hope you don't start glowing in the dark!)
