         Programming the Payphone 190

Caution

If, whilst programming your Payphone 190, the display shows ----, then you
should key ****, which will cause the display to show FAIL followed by
prog. If however, keying in **** causes a display of PPPP, then keyin your
PIN followed by #.

 Programming the personal indetification number (PIN) 

The payphone 190 requires programming with a PIN before the payphone can be
used. Until this has been done, the display will show 999 whenever the
handset is lifted. the PIN also allows the Payphone 190 to be used as a
ordinary telephone,that is, to make calls without inserting coins.

Normally, with the handset in place, the display shows ---- and youmust
program your PIN following the instructions given below. If, however the
display is blank, ignore these instructions and carry out the procedure
entitled Changing you personal identification number (PIN). Choose a four
digit PIN and key this on the keyboard using any of the digits 0 to 9. The
display shows the last four digits keyed.

 Note - The * key, Next Call or Press on Answer buttons(if fitted)may also
be used as part of your PIN if you require. These are shown as P, F and F
respectively on the display.

 When you have the required PIN ont he display, key #, and the
displayflashes prog.

 If you have a self contained Payphone 190, you must now program thetime of
day and the day of the week and then any other facilites you require.

 If you have a meter pulsed Payphone 190, you may either program thetime of
day and any other facilties you may require, or key # again, and the
display shows a steady prog. To clear this display, key Next Call. The
payphoneis now ready for use.

 Changing your personal identification number (PIN) 

 We recommend that you change your PIN regularly in the interestsof
security.

 CAUTION Changing thte PIN requires reprogramming all of the other Payphone
190 facilites you may have previously programmed. The audio facility cash
records will aslo be reset.

 After changing your PIN, check the list of programming facilitesin the
section Programming the payphone with other facilites to reprogram the
facilitesyou require.

 To change your PIN, follow the instructions below: 

 1 Leave the handset inplace. 

 2 Open case. 

 CAUTION Unplug the connection to the telecommunications network before
openingthe battery compartment

 3 Open the battery compartment, by unscrewing the single cross headscrew
at the higher end of the batyery compartment cover.

4 Remove at least one of the batteries. 

 5 Wait for at least five minutes. 6 Replace the battery (ensure that it
faces the correct way).

 7 Close the battery compartment and screw shut. 

 8 Close the case and turn the key to the unlocked position and backto the
unlocked position. The display shows ----.

 9 Choose a new four digit PIN and key this on the keypad using anyof the
digits keyed.

 Note - The * key, Next Call or Press on Answer buttons(if fitted)may also
be used as part of your PIN if you require. These are shown as P, F and F
respectively on the display.

 10 When you have the required PIN on the display, key #, and thedisplay
flashes prog.

 If you have a self contained Payphone 190, you must now program thetime of
day and the day of the week and then any other facilites you require.

 If you have a meter pulsed Payphone 190, you may now program thefacilites
you require. If you have a meter pulsed Payphone 190, you may now program
the facilites you require, or if none are required, key # again, and the
display shows a steady prog. to clear the dispay, key Next Call. The
payphone isnow ready for use.

 Programming the payphone with other facilites 

 To program your Payphone 190 with the other facilites (apart froma PIN) it
is necessary to:

 - enter the programming mode 

 - perform the required programming 

 - and the leave the programming mode. A programming template is provided
as an aide memoire to assist in programming additional features on the
payphone. This may be found at the back of the guide.

 Note - It is important that you decide how you wish to program eachof
these facilites, as they can affect the amount of money collected by your
Payphone 190. In particular , those marked * below must be checked and
changed if necessary.

 Programmable facilites: 

 - Time of day (only applicable to self contained version) 

 - Day of week (only applicable to self contained version) 

 - Loop disconnect or tone dialling (normally set to loop disconnect) 

 - Cash compartment size * 

 - PABX access digits and pause * 

 - The audit facility (cash records) 

 - Directory enquiry numbers. * 

 Entering the programming mode 

 1 With the handset in place key * twice (slowly). The display shows ----.

 2 Key in your four digit PIN. the display shows prog (if the correctPIN is
keyed) or FAIL 9if an incorrect PIN is keyed).

 Note - If the display shows FAIL indicating that an incorrect PINhas been
entered the payphone will revert back to the start of the sequence withthe
display blank.

 When the display shows prog you are in the programming mode. 

 If three unsuccessful attemps are made to key int he PIN, you cannotretry
for thirtys econds. This is to avoid unauthorised users from trying to
discover the PIN by repeated attemps.

 Programming loop disconect or tone dialling 

 The Payphone 190 is capable of dialling numbers using the pulsed(loop
disconnect)or dual tone signalling (tone) system. the phone is preset touse
the loop diconnect system and this need not be changed. However it canbe
programmed to use the tone system. This is often the preferred system when
connecting your Payphone 190 to a private exchange (PABX).

 1 Enter the proramming mode as described previously in this section. 

 2 With the display showing prog, key 1. The dispaly shows the
previossetting (LOOP or tonE)

 3 Key * to change between LOOP or tonE as required. 

 4 key #. The display shows prog. 

 You can now leave the programming mode as described at the end ofthis
section or program any other facilites you require.

 Programming the PABX access digits and the pause 

 General 

 This is only neccessary if you have a self contained Payphone 190which is
connected as an extension to a PABX (telephone switchboard) which requires
access digit(s) to be dialled and a pause, before dialling the number tobe
called. The Payphone 190 will automatically insert the digit(s) and the
pause; the user need only dial the number required. The PABX pause is
normally set to three second. Alternative setting will depend on the type
of PABX you have.

On PABX systems which return a secondary proceed indication (dial tone),the
delay should be set to not less than four seconds for dual tone working.

 On PABX systems which do not return a secondary proceed indication (dial
tone), the pause should be set to zero to speed up the progress ofthe call
and to eliminate a possible premature time out of some PABXs.

 Consult you PABX supplier for further information. 

 Programming 

 1 Enter the progamming mode as described previously in this section. 

 2 With the display showing prog, key 5. The display shows the previously
programmed access digit(s), for examle PA-9 or PA--.

 3 Key one or two digits that are required by the PABX as prefix digits to
obtain an exchange line. The display shows the access digit that you have
programmed.

 For example, for a PABX that requires a 7 as a prefix digit to obtainan
exchange, key . The display shows PA-7. Note - To clear the display, key *
twice (slowly) until the display shows PA--.

 4 Key #. If no access digits were programmed, the display now shows prog
and youcan either leave the programming mode as described at the end of
this section,or program any other facilites you require.

 If you have progrred an access digit(s), the display now shows theprevious
pause, for example PP 3. Proceed to step 5.

5 To program a pause, key one digit from 0 to 9. This is the delay in
seconds required by the PABX between the prefix digit(S) and the number to
be called.

 6 Key #. The display shows prog. 

 You can now either leave the programming mode as described at theend of
this section, or program any other facilites you require.

 Leaving the programming mode 

 When you have completed the programming you require, you must leavethe
programming as follows:

 1 With the display showing prog, either 

 - lift the handset to obtain dial tone then replace it, or 

 - press Net Call (if the Payphone 190 is not connected to the telephone
line.), or

 - press Press on Answer (if fitted). 

 2 The display goes blank. You have now left the programming mode. 

 godhead/med 

