Title: The Proven existance of 9 dimensional planes


Intro: In order to understand these files, one must assume the following is
completely true. If not assumed, one will be completely lost in the text of
the following files. You may laugh if you wish, but if you want to understand
the theory you must make compensations on your part. Ok, on with the file...


Volume I: Defining the 9 planes

Written by: Starmaster and Locust


1st dimensional plane: This plane consists of only the single dimension
of length. It is not advised to try to envision this dimension for it may
cause insanity, seriously.

2nd dimensional plane: This plane consists of both length and width. It
is not adviable to envision this either. The first and second planes are
not the same as the fourth dimension and are uncomprehendable except by
entities "living" in that plane of thought and sight.

3rd dimensional plane: This is the plane of depth. This one is easily
imagined by 4th dimensional entities, because they are so close to it, and
had just passed out of it.

4th dimensional plane: This is the plane that the entities that we call
beings "live" on. It consists of the forward movement of time. It is the one
we are on right now.

The cross-over: This is a place where the 4th dimensional entities make their
way into the 5th and above. It is often refered to as death, yet it is only a
cross-over point. At this point, all knowledge of the 4th and below
dimensions is lost.

5th dimensional plane: This plane consists of the backwards movement of
time. Although considered impossible by 4th dimensional entities, those
entities are only thinking in the 4th dimensional phase. Remember everything
else from here on out is done in metaphysical thinking.

6th dimensional plane: This is the plane of clairvoyance. Remember, all of
this you must assume, or no comprehension of the later explanations
will be understood. Not much is known about this plane, except you "inhabit"
the sense of clairvoyance.

7th dimensional plane: This is the plane of telekinesis. This is even less
understood than the plane of clairvoyance, yet it does exist. This
often thought of as "supernatural", when in fact it a real thing.

8th dimensional plane: This is the plane of perception. It is the highest any
entity can evolve to. It consists of all the planes from five and up.

9th dimensional plane: God. Refered to by many, but understood by few. All
cultures and beings, be it from our world or others, have this vision. God
created all life, so all life lives by him.



These are the explanations of all the dimensional planes. Dimensional planes
are achieved by the evolution of the mind/soul/entity, which are all the
same thing. Evolution is a continual learning process. As we evolve we
understand more, yet raise more questions. This theory is to help those
understand the answers to many questions concerning God and the
"supernatural". One thing is assumed. We are not the only lifeforms in this
universe. All lifeforms were created by God, and will evolve through the
process God laid forth unto us. The universe is infinitely large, which
shows God's power is also infinitely large.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Volume II: Explanation of the Planes and their signifigance to the supernatural

Intro: This is the second part to the previous file on the proven existance of
9 dimensional planes. As stated in the last phile, one must assume all things
true in order to understand and comprehend the intensity of this phile. This
one will deal with the questions brought about by the theory itself.

One thing must be understood in this file. All the entities, in all the
dimensional planes, co-exist with one another in this one universe. There is
but one universe, in which all entities live in. There are no "outside"
universes. Everything co-exists in this one universe.

Explanation of "Insane Persons":

An insane person is thought of as a person without the ability to think clearly
and comprehend things on a 4th dimensional basis. They are not "insane". That
is a term 4th dimensional entities give to those entities which are not on the
the same thought plane that the other entities are on. Every plane is just a
level of thought process. In the past file I stated that evolution is a
continuing process of learning. The "insane" persons of a 4th dimensional
community are not on the same thought plane we consider ourselves on.

Explanation of "supernatural" powers

This deals with the idea of persons who are able to channel their psychic
powers to do physical things. This also deals with fortune tellers and People
who can see the future, i.e. Nostradameus. These occurances are also explained
by the thought level that these entities are on. They are actually 6th or 7th
dimensional beings stuck in a 4th deminsional body. Because 99.8% of the
population of the 4th dimension only thinks in 4 dimensions, they are often
considered "supernatural", "witches", "prophets", ect. You then will ask, if I
came up with this, how come I can't bend spoons with a thought. The answer is
simple. I am now just discovering this phenomenon. I have an upbringing of this
not really happening, but being a science-fiction thing. The people who do know
how to do these things have been concentrating all their lives to use this
"super" power givin to them by God. If everone thought on the 8th dimension,
there would be no use for a God. It is all a process of learning and
comprehending.

Explanation of "Ghosts, Spirits, and Poltergeists"

This is about the simplest thing to explain. As I stated above, all entities
co-exist in the same universe, for there is only one, which is infinite.
Sometimes, 4th dimensional beings see things they aren't "supposed" to see.
People are brought up with the idea ghosts are science-fiction, when in fact
they are a real thing. Sometimes these entities are accidently crossed back for
a few seconds, years, or minutes.

Explanation of Heaven or the Kingdom of God

This is fairly easily comprehended, if one thinks beyond the 4th dimension. It
is but the enternity at the other side of the cross-over. What do you think the
"light at the end of the tunnel" is? It is the "other side" or 5th dimension.
People lose their physical bodies and are "able to fly" around. This also
explains the angels 4th dimensional beings continually say are immortal.

Explanation of Immortality

Immortality is an easily comprehendable concept, if one thinks of a positive
charge and a negative charge. When thrown together, they cancel each other out.
This is the same priciple when you combine forward and reverse time together.
After you make the cross-over, your mind adapts to backwards time, yet when
backwards time collides with forward time it cancels it out. Therefore the
state of immortality is reached.

The one constant

There is but one constant in all the dimensions. Plank's constant is only
valuable in 4th dimensional science and so is the speed of light. There is only
one constant in all of the 9 dimensions. It is the emotions. No one can explain
emotions except this phile. Emotions are the only constant of the co-existant
universe. Think about it. Why do you think the "ghosts" are happy, sad, angry,
ect., ect., when you see them. It is because of the power and intensity of the
emotional constant. When emotions of the 5th and above dimensional entities
gains great intensity, it then is transfered to all other dimensions.


That about does it for this file. That pretty much explains everything that I
can think of dealing with the unexplainable. If you can think of any more,
leave mail on Centre of Eternity for Starmaster (#75). I will ponder for the
answer, until I can get a suitable one using this theory. None will be turned
away. Who knows, maybe I'll get enough quetions to write another phile. Slatez
dudes.


Greets to all metaphysical thinkers. This should answer some of your questions.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Call Centre of Eternity-(615)552-5747/ 40 megs on-line/ 12/2400 baud.
     HQ of The Esoteric Society and Toxic Shock
Call Ripco-(312)528-5020/ 12-9600 baud/ 60+ megs on-line
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
