
                         WHO Murdered Africa
               The Greatest Murder Mystery of all Time

    There is no question mark after the title of this article because
the title is not a question.  It's a declarative statement.  WHO, the
World Health Organization, murdered Africa with the AIDS virus.  Thats
a provocative statement, isn't it?

    The answers to this little mystery, Murder on the WHO Express will
be quite clear to you by the end of this report.  You will also 
understand why the other suspects, the homosexuals, the green monkey
and the Haitians, were only pawns in this virocidal attack on the 
non-Communist world.

    If you believe the government propaganda that AIDS is hard to catch
then you are going to die even sooner than the rest of us.  The common
cold is a virus.  Have you ever had a cold?  How did you catch it?
You don't really know, do you?  If the cold virus was fatal, How many 
people would be left in the world?

    Yellow fever is a virus.  You catch it from mosquito bites.  Malaria
is a parasite also carried by mosquitoes.  It is many times larger than
the AIDS virus ( like comparing a pinhead to a moose head ) yet the
mosquito easily carries this large organism to man.

    The tuberculosis germ, also larger than that AIDS virus, can be 
transmitted by formites ( inanimate objects such as towels ).  The 
AIDS virus can live for as long as 10 days on a dry plate. You can't
understand this murder mystery unless you learn a little virology.

    Many viruses grow in animals and many grow in humans, but most of
the viruses that affect animals don't affect humans.  There are exceptions,
of course, such as yellow fever and small pox. 

    There are some viruses in animals that can cause very lethal cancer 
in those animals, but do not affect man or other animals.  The Bovine
Leukemia Virus ( BLV ), for example, is lethal to cows but not humans.
There is also another virus that occurs in sheep called Sheep Visna Virus
which is also non-reactive in man.  These Deadly viruses are " Retro -
Viruses ", meaning that they can change the genetic composition of the 
cells that they enter.

    The World Health Organization, in published articles, called for
scientists to work these deadly agents and attempt to make a hybrid 
virus that would be deadly to humans. " An attempt should be made to
see if viruses can in fact exert selective effects on immune function.
The possibility should be looked into that the immune response to the 
virus itself maybe impaired if the infecting virus damages, more or
less selectively, the cell responding to the virus."

   Thats AIDS. What the WHO is saying in plain english is " Let's cook
up a virus that selectively destroys the T-Cell system of man, an
acquired immune deficiency.  Why would anyone want to do this?  If you
destroy the T-Cell system of man then you destroy man. Is it even 
remotely possible that the WHO would want to develop a virus that would
wipe out the human race?

    If there new creation worked, the WHO stated, then many terrible
and fatal infectious viruses could be made even more terrible and more
malignant.  Does this strike you as being a peculiar goal for a health
organization?

    Sometimes Americans believe in conspiracies and sometimes the don't.
Was there a conspiracy to kill President Kennedy?  Twenty five years later
the debate still continues, and people keep changing there minds.  One day
it's yes and the next it's no - depending upon what was served for lunch,
or how the stock market did the day before.

    But it doesn't take a bad lunch to see an amazing concatenation of 
events involving Russian  and Chinesse communist nationals, The WHO, The
National Cancer Institute, and the AIDS epidemic.

   But what about the green monkey?  Some of the best virologist in the 
world and many of those directly involved in AIDS research, such as 
Robert Gallo and Luc Montagnier, have said that the green monkey may be
the culprit.  You know the story: A green monkey bit a native on the ass
and, bam - AIDS all over central Africa.

    There is a fatal flaw here.  It is very strange. Because Gallo, 
Montagnier and these other virologist know that the AIDS virus doesn't
occur naturally in monkeys. In fact it doesn't occur naturally in any
animal.

    AIDS started practically simultaneously in the United States, Haiti,
Brazil, and Central Africa. ( Was the green monkey a jet pilot? )
Examination for the gene structure of the green monkey cells prove that
it is not genetically possible to transfer the AIDS virus from monkeys
to man by natural means.

    Because of the artificial nature of the AIDS virus it will not easily
transfer from man to man unless it has become very concentrated in the
body fluids through repeated injections from person to person, such as
drug addicts, and through high multiple partner sexual activity such as
takes place in Africa and among homosexuals. After repeated transfer it
can become a " natural " infection for man, which it has.

    Dr. Theodore Strecker's research of the literature indicates that 
the National Cancer Institute ( NCI ) in collaboration with the WHO, 
made the AIDS virus in there laboratories at Fort Detrick ( now NCI ).
They combined the deadly retro-viruses Bovine-Leukemia Virus and Sheep
Visna Virus, and injected them into human tissue cultures. The result 
was the AIDS virus, the first human retro-virus known to man and now
believed to be 100% fatal to those infected.

    The momentous plague that we now face was anticipated by the National
Academy of Sciences (NAS) in 1974 when they recommended that "Scientists
throughout the world join with the members of this committee in voluntarily
deferring experiments linking animal viruses". What the NAS is saying in
carefully guarded english is: "For God's sake. Stop this madness!" The
green monkey is off the hook. How about the Communists? 

    Communist are in the process of conducting germ warfare from Fort
Detrick, Maryland against the free world, expecially the United States,
even using foreign communist agents within the US Army's germ warfare 
unit euphamistically called the Army Infectious Disease Unit.

    You don't believe it?  Carlton Gajdusek, an NIH bigshot at Detrick
admits it. " IN THE FACILITY I HAVE A BUILDING WHERE MORE GOOD AND 
LOYAL COMMUNIST SCIENTISTS FROM THE USSR AND MAINLAND CHINA WORK, WITH 
FULL PASSKEYS TO ALL THE LABORATORIES, THAN THERE ARE AMERICAN. EVEN THE
ARMY'S INFECTIOUS DISEASE UNIT IS LOADED WITH FOREIGN WORKERS NOT ALWAYS
FRIENDLY NATIONALS."

    Can you imagine that?  A UN-WHO communist trogan horse in our 
biological warfare center with the full blessing of the US government?

    The creation of the AIDS virus by the WHO was not just a diabolical
scientific exercise that got out of hand. It was a cold-blooded
successful attempt to create a killer virus which was then used in a
successful experiment in Africa.  So successful in fact that most of
Central Africa may be wiped out, 75,000,000 dead within 3-5 years.

    It was not an accident, it was deliberate.  In the Federation
Proceedings of the United States in 1972, WHO said : " In relation
to the immune response a number of useful experimental approaches can
be visualized ".  They suggested a neat way to do this would be to put
their new killer virus ( AIDS ) into a vaccination program, sit back and 
observe the results. " This would be particularly informative in 
sibships," they said.  That is, give AIDS to  brothers and sisters and 
see if they die, who dies first, and of what, just like rats in a 
laboratory.

    They used the smallpox vaccine for their vehicle and the geographical
sites chosen in 1972 were Ugunda and other African sites, Haiti, Brazil
and Japan. The present and recent past of AIDS epidemiology coincides
with these geographical areas.

    Dr. Strecker points out that even if the African green monkey could
transmit AIDS to humans, the present known amount of infection in Africa
makes it statistically impossible for a single episode, such as a monkey
biting someone, to have brought this epidemic to this point. The doubling
time of the number of people infected, about every 14 months, when
correlated with the first known cases, and the present known number of 
cases, prove beyond a doubt that a large number of people had to be
infected at the same time. Starting in 1972 with the first case from our
mythical monkey, and doubling the number of infected from that single 
source every 14 months you get only a few thousand cases. From 1972 to 
1987 is 15 years or 180 months. If it takes 14 months to double the number
of cases then there would have been 13 doublings. 1 then 2 then 4 then 8..
etc...In 15 years, from a single source of infection there would be about
8000 cases in Africa, not 75 million. We are approaching World War II
mortality statistics here - without a shot being fired. 

    Dr. Theodore A. Strecker is the courageous doctor who has unraveled
this conundrum, the greatest murder mystery of all time. He should get 
the Nobel Prize but he'll be lucky not to get "suicided." ( "Prominent
California doctor ties his hands behind his back, hangs himself, and 
jumps from 20th floor. There was no evidence of foul play." )

    Strecker was employed as a consultant to work on a health proposal
for Security Pacific Bank. He was to estimate the cost of their health 
care for the future. Should they form an HMO was the major issue. After
investigating the current medical market he advised against the HMO because
he found that the AIDS epidemic in all probability bankrupt the nation's
medical system.

    He became fascinated with all the scientific anomalies concerning AIDS
that kept cropping up. Why did the " experts " keep talking about 
green monkeys and homosexuals being the culprits when it was obvious that
the AIDS virus was a man-made virus? Why did they say it was a homosexual
and drug-user disease when in Africa it was obviously a heterosexual
disease? If the green monkey did it then why did AIDS explode practically
simultaneously in Africa, Haiti, Brazil, Japan, and the United States?

    Why, when it was proposed to the National Institute of Health that the
AIDS virus was a combination of two bovine or sheep viruses cultured in
human cells in a laboratory, did they say it was " bad science " when 
thats exactly what occurred? 

    As early as 1970 the WHO was growing these deadly animal viruses in
human tissue cultures.  Cedric Mims, in 1981, said in a published article
that there was a bovive virus contaminating the culture media of th WHO.
Was this an accident or a "non-accident"? If it was an accident then why
did the WHO continue to use the vaccine?

    This viral and genetic death bomb, AIDS, was finally produced in 1974.
It was given to monkeys and they died of pneumocystis carni which is
typical of AIDS.

    Dr. R. J. Biggar said in Lancet ( a Brittish journal ) that the AIDS
agent could not have developed de novo. That means in plain english that 
it didn't come out of thin air. AIDS was engineered in a laboratory by
virologists. It couldn't engineer itself. As Dr. Stricker so colorfully
puts it: " If a person has no arms or legs and shows up at a party in a 
tuxedo, how did he get dressed? Somebody dressed him. "

    There are 9000 to the 4th power possible AIDS viruses. ( There are 
9000 base pairs on the geneome. ) So the fun has just begun. Some will 
cause brain rot similar to the sheep virus, some leukemia-like diseases
from the cow viruses, and some that won't do anything. So the virus will
be constantly changing and trying out new esoteric disease on hapless 
man. We're only the beginning

    Because of the trillions of possible genetic combinations there will
never be a vaccine. Even if they could develop a vaccine they would 
un-doubtfully give us something equally as bad as they did with the Polio
vaccine ( cancer of the brain ), the Swine Flu vaccine ( a Polio-like 
disease ), the Smallpox vaccine (AIDS), and the Hepatitis vaccine (AIDS).

   There are precedents. This is not the first time the virologists have
brought us disaster. SV-40 virus from monkey cell cultures contaminated
Polio cultures. Most people in there 40's are now carrying the virus 
through contaminated Polio innoculations given in the early 60's. It is
known to cause brain cancer which explains the increase in this disease
that we have seen in the past 10 years.

    This is the origin of the green monkey theory. The Polio vaccine was 
grown on green monkey kidney cells. 64 million Americans were vaccinated
with SV-40 contaminated vaccine in the 60's. An increase in cancer of the
brain, possibly Multiple Sclerosis, and God only knows what else is the 
tragic result. The delay between vaccination and the onset of cancer 
with this virus is as long as 20-30 years. 1965 + 20 = 1985. Get the 
picture?

    The final piece of the puzzle is how AIDS devastated the homosexual
population in the United States. It wasn't from Smalpox vaccination as
in Africa because we don't do that any more. There is no Smallpox in the
United States and so vaccination was discontinued. Although some AIDS has
been brought to the United States from Haiti by homosexuals, It would not
be enough to explain the explosion of AIDS that occurred simultaneously 
with the African and Haitian epidemics.

    The AIDS virus didn't exist in the United States before 1978. You can 
check back in any hospital and no stored blood samples can be found 
anywhere that exhibit the AIDS virus before that date. What happened in
1978 and beyond to cause AIDS to burst upon the scene and devastate the 
homosexual section of our population? It was the introduction of the 
Hepatitis B vaccine which exhibits the exact same epidemiology of AIDS.

    A Doctor W. Schmunger, born in Poland and educated in Russia, came 
to this country in 1969. Schmunger's immigration to the U.S. was 
probably the most fatefull immigration in our history. He, by un-explained
process, became the head of one of the New York City blood bank. ( How 
does a Russian trained doctor become the head of one of the largest blood
banks in the world?  Doesn't that strike you as peculiar? )

    He set up the rules for the Hepatitis vaccine studies. Only males 
between the ages of 20 and 40 , who were not monogamous, were allowed to
participate in this study. Can you think of any reason for insisting that
all expermentees be promiscuous? Maybe you don't believe in the Communist
conspiracy theory but give me some other logical explanation. Schmunger 
is now dead and his diabolical secret went with him.

    The Centers for Disease Control reported in 1981 that 4% of those
receiving the Hepatitis vaccine were AIDS infected. In 1984 they admitted 
to 60%. Now they refuse to give out the figures at all because they don't
want to admit that 100% of the Hepatitis vaccine receivers are AIDS 
infected. Where is the data on the Hepatitis vaccine studied? FDA? CDC?
No, the U.S. Department of Justice has buried it where you will never see
it.

             What has the government told us about AIDS?

       *   It's a homosexual disease-----------------------WRONG
       *   It's related to anal intercourse only-----------WRONG 
       *   Only a small % of those testing positive
           for AIDS would get the disease------------------WRONG
       *   It came from the African green monkey-----------WRONG
       *   It came from cytomegalovirus--------------------WRONG
       *   It was due to popping amyl nitrate with sex-----WRONG
       *   It was started 400 years ago by the Portugese---WRONG
       *   You cant get it from insects--------------------WRONG
       *   The virus can't live outside the body-----------WRONG

    The head of the Human Leukemia Research Group at Harvard is a 
veterinarian. Dr. O. W. Judd, International Agency for Research on Cancer,
the agency that requested the production of the virus in the first place,
is also a veterinarian. The Leukemia research he is conducting is being 
done under the auspices of a school of veterinary medicine. Now, there is
nothing wrong with being a vet but, as we have pointed out, the AIDS virus
is a human virus. You can't test these viruses in animals and you can't 
test leukemias in them either. It doesn't work. So why would your 
government give Judd, a veterinarian, 8.5 million dollars to study 
leukemia in a veterinary college? As long as we are being used as 
experimental animals maybe it is appropriate.

    The London Times should be congratulated for uncovering the smallpox-
AIDS connection. But there expose was very misleading. The article states
that the African AIDS epidemic was caused by the smallpox vaccine 
"triggering" the AIDS in those vaccinated. Dr. Robert Gallo, who has been
mixed up in some very strange scientific snafus, supports this theory.
Whether the infection of 75 million Africians was deliberate or
accidental can be debated, but there is no room for debate whether the 
smallpox shots "awakened the unsuspecting virus infection." There is 
absolutely no scientific evidence that this laboratory-engineered virus
was present in Africa before the WHO descended upon these hapless people
in 1967 with their deadly AIDS-laced vaccine. The AIDS virus didn't come
from Africa, it came from Fort Detrick, Maryland, U.S.A.

    The situation is extremely desperate and the medical profession is 
too frightened and cowed (as usual) to take any action. Dr. Strecker 
attempted to mobilize the doctors through some of the most respected 
medical journals in the world. The prestigious Annals of Internal Medicine
said that his material "appears to be entirely concerned with maters of 
virology" and so try some other publication.

    In his letter to The Annals, Strecker said, "If correct human 
experimental procedures had been followed we would not find half of the 
world stumbling off on the wrong path to the cure for AIDS with the other
half of the world covering up the origination of the dammed disease. It 
appears to me that your Annals of Internal Medicine is participating in
the greatest fraud ever perpetrated."

    I guess they didn't like that so Stricker submitted his sensational
and mind-boggling letter with all of the proper documentation to the 
British journal, Lancet. Their reply : " Thank you for that interesting 
letter on AIDS. I am sorry to have to report that we will not be able to 
publish it. We have no criticism" but their letter section was " over
crowded with submissions ".

    They're too crowded to announce the end of western civilization and
possibly all mandkind? Doesn't seem reasonable. What can we do?  The first
thing that should be done is to close down all laboratories in this 
country that are dealing with these deadly retro-viruses. Then we must 
sort out the insane, irresponsible and traitorous scientists involved
in these experiments and try them for murder. Then maybe, just ,maybe, we
can re-populate and re-civilize the world.

                                    William Campbell Douglass, M.D.
                                  P.O. Box 38  Lakemont, GA  30552 



