
                           Anti-American Jewish League
                           ---------------------------



From: San Francisco Chronicle, Wed. Dec. 12, 1990 (Briefing Section)
----

The British Zionists were led by Chaim Weizmann, a brilliant chemist who
contributed to the war effort by discovering a new process for manufacturing
acetone, a substance vital for TNT that was until then only produced in
Germany.  Weizmann saw a historic opening for Zionism and began to lobby
influential British politicians.

Early in their talks with British politicians, it became clear to them that
only a British Palestine would be a reliable buffer for the Suez Canal.
Weizmann therefore assured Britain that in exchange for its support,       
Zionists would work for the establishment of a British protectorate there.
This suited Britain better than the agreement it had already made with
France for an international administration for Palestine.

So on November 2, 1917, Foreign Secretary Arthur Balfour made his famous
and deeply ambiguous declaration that Britain would "view with favor the
establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people..."
How did the pledge to the Zionists square with what had already been
promised to the Arabs in return for their support in the war against the
Turks?  The Arabs realized that they had been outmaneuvered.

Note - As you can see, the main reason our troops are in the Persian Gulf
       is because of the Zionist hunger for a national home in Palestine.
       Palestine was an independent land before 1917.  But after the
       totally unfair Balfour Declaration, written by British Zionists,
       Zionists (Jews) were given permission by Great Britain to take
       over Palestine and keep lands which do not belong to them.  And
       the US has not done anything about it.  Why?  Because of the
       better known media, which are all Zionists. (ie. Ted Koppell,
       Larry King, etc etc etc)  Many large corporations are also run
       by Jews, including many of the large corporations which make
       stuff for our military.  

Note - The American Anti-Jewish League in no way supports the naked
       aggression committed by Saddam Hussein against Kuwait.  He
       must leave Kuwait, even though Kuwait, contrary to popular 
       opinion, once WAS a PROVINCE of Iraq.  There is no doubt about
       this: just go to your public library and get a good book on
       Iraq, Kuwait, or British Foreign Policy in the Middle East.
       Once again, it was the British (and French) who set up the
       current boundaries which exist today.  However, what Saddam
       has done must be overruled, exactly as what the Jews have 
       done to Palestine must be stopped.  Do you know how much of
       our TAXES go to Israel every year?  Do you know how much
       trouble we've gone through to protect Israel?  Do you know
       that there are more Jews in the USA than in any other country
       in the world?  Do you know most Jews (especially the conser-
       vative and highly orthodox ones) are strong anti-Americans?
       Why then, are we supporting them?  Because many of our
       highest government positions are run by Jews.  They are
       practically running the US.  And what about the British?
       It is not Japan that owns more of the US than other countries.
       It is Great Britain.  They own more US land, corporations,
       stocks, interests, etc. in the US than the Japanese and 5
       other countries put together.  If you don't believe any of
       this, just print it out, and go to your local public library
       or ask an unbiased History professor. This is all true.
       Please spread the word around, and upload this and other
       files to as many BBS's as you can.  We must begin to stop
       this low-profile takeover of our country, or else it will
       be too late to control it.  Thank you for your time.



                             American Anti-Jewish League
                             ---------------------------



Have you ever wondered why so many people hate or dislike Jews?  From their
very first existence, they have been hated by people around them and people
who knew them.  Why?  All through these ages, anti-semitism is still strong.
Why?  It is true that some of this hatred is not founded for truly, such as
in the case of the Germans.  Hitler was looking for a people to accuse of
Germany's downfall, so he picked the Jews.  Although this is not the main
reason for Germany's weakness at that time, there is still something to it.
Jews were contributing, but very minutely, and in low-profile, to Germany's
problems.  Anyway, back to the main point. Now it is the Arabs who are after
the Jews, even though if you go back to Germany today, the majority of
Germans (although they will not admit it right away) are still anti-semitic.
Wouldn't you still be?  Just look at ALL these movies made and shown on
TV and at cinemas in which the world is pitted against the Germans, and
the Germans always lose.  These movies are still shown every day on TV and
cable.  Just turn on TBS, TNT, etc.  Anyway, now it is the Arabs.  And
now we have and soon will have more movies which bring down the Arabs.
(ie. the new Sally Field movie, which is grossly exaggerated)  Don't
forget who runs most of the TV networks and movie studios.  So why do
so many people hate Jews (also known as Zionists, semitic people (not very
correctly though), Israelites, Israelis)  The answer to this question
is very simple.  Jews believe that they are God's chosen people (they
honestly believe this, even though they will not admit it anymore di-
rectly) and that because they are so, then they are superior to all
other people.  All others must work for Jews, because no one else is
as gifted as they are.  It is true that most Jews have above-average
intelligence, and that they are very handy and dexterous, and work hard
(but only for themselves)  We are not denying this.  What we detest is
their attitude that they are superior to us, and therefore we must
be their slaves.  And they can do almost anything they want, because
they are the "chosen" ones.  Because of this belief of theirs, Jews
along with their other attributes have been slowly and quietly taking
over the most important world systems.  They cheat a lot; this is one
of their most distinguished characteristics.  What we mean by cheat
is not just cheating, but taking advantage of the right opportunities
to gain their objectives.  They are extremely well-known for their
"money habits".  They take advantage of less qualified peoples, using
them knowingly.  They help mostly only themselves, and have very close
ties with each other.  (they even have their owns BBs's, just look in-
side Computer Currents)  Because of this connections, they can get
things done easily.  If a Jew needs job, no problem.  There are other
Jews in all the top job areas, who will right away hire him/her first
over others.  They have extremely high-level propaganda machinery;
many TV and radio commentators are Jews, many reporters, book writers,
and magazines are Jewish.  AND very importantly, the many publications
companies are run by Jews.  If you have any doubts, just do some
research.  It might take you a while, but you will find out that, yes,
it is true.  And these people are ALL over the world: Israel, USA,
England, Canada, spread over in S. American, all over Europe, USSR,
etc etc.  They are practically in the highest-level positions all over
the world.  And they use their clear advantage to continually gain
more and more power.  The Middle East is the last bastion of true
anti-Zionism.  God only knows what would happen if they were to take 
over the Middle East and its oil too.  They already have the biggest
banks, corporations, communications systems, etc in the world.  All
they need now is oil.  And all throughout the ages, they have been
doing the same thing, and when successful, suppressing all opposing
views.  Now they have finally succeeded in turning the whole world
against Iraq, the 2nd biggest anti-Zionist country in the world.  This
of course, has been done in an indirect manner, and has taken them a
lot of time.  But it has worked.  Once Saddam is ousted, thanks to
our soldiers and money, they will then begin to slowly get control of
the region.  There is still Iran, Syria, and other countries, but they
can be taken care of too.  It will not be easy for them, because the
Arabs are tremendous anti-semites, and they are willing to do anything
to stop the Jews.  But, with the US, Britain, and other countries
helping them, the Jewish will have all the support they need to accom-
plish their goals.  And all because these countries are practically
run by Jews.  So please, become more informed on this subject.  Read
more books, newspapers, etc. about these people, making DEAD sure
that they are not written by Jewish authors, or published by Jewish
publication companies, or third-party Jewish-influenced writers.
We must stop these people from controlling the world.  We don't want
to kill them or hurt them, we want to let them know that they are
not superior to us, they are not God's chosen people, and that they
cannot do whatever they want.  Please, help us out.  Spread these
files around, call your senators and representatives, read more
about this stuff, etc.  JEWS MUST BE STOPPED... NOW!


                           American Anti-Jewish League
                           --------------------------- 



How would you like it if another peoples, with greater military capability
and more money came to the United States and started to control it.  If
they began to put strict restrictions on everything you did, and started
to take away your rights.  If they set curfews, so that you couldn't
come outside at times, and refused to let you go wherever you wanted.
If they refused to allow you to celebrate certain holidays.  If they put
down all opposition brutally, killing anyone who disobeyed their rules.
And to top if off, they were supported by the biggest military in the
world.  You could do nothing about it.  Nothing.  All tries have been
put down by force.  Anything you have done has ended in your people
being killed or injured.  How would you feel?  Be honest now.  Well,
this is exactly what is happening in Palestine now.  It's even worse
than this.  There is no way to describe it.  The only way to do so is
to sit down for a few minutes and imagine people coming into your
town and suddenly taking control of it.  You have to do everything
they tell you to.  If you go out and protest, they will injure you.  If
you get violent, they will kill you, saying that you have been wanted
for other offenses as well, and that you had done such and such.
And there is absolutely nothing that you can do.  Many people outside
are talking about this, but no one is really doing anything about it.
It feels terrible, doesn't it?  You are beginning to get really angry
now, that no one is listening to your cries.  You try more violent
methods - nothing.  So you decide the only way to make it known to
others is to use terrorist methods.  You hijack a plane.  Now the
whole world is against you.  More Jewish propaganda.  You are called
a barbarian, uncivilized.  Just throw a nuke on you, many say.  So
what do you do?  This is exactly what is happening to the Palestinian
people.  Please, do something about it.  Or at least, next time you
hear Jews, Jewish propaganda, or some other Jewish views, question
them, embarass them.  Don't believe everything they say.  Become
more informed.  STOP THEM BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE!


                            American Anti-Jewish League
                            ---------------------------


    Disclaimer - Any use of this info for illegal purposes is forbidden
                 and against the law.  All of the info in this file is
                 only for your personal knowledge.  If you use any of
                 this info in the process, the consequences are yours 
                 and yours alone.


    

    Useful Addresses and Phone Numbers
    ----------------------------------

1.  Consulate General of Israel
    220 Bush
    San Francisco, CA.

    (415) 398-8885

    Open M-F 10am to 1pm

2.  Adath Israel
    Rabbi Jacob Traub 
    1851 Noriega

    (415) 564-5665

3.  Ahavat Shalom
    150 Eureka

    (415) 621-1020

4.  Congregation Anshey Sfard
    1500 Clement
   
    (415) 752-4979

5.  Congregation Beth Israel-Judea
    Rabbi Herbert Morris
    625 Brotherhood Way

    (415) 586-8833

6.  Congregation Beth Sholom
    Rabbi Alexander Graubart
    14th Ave & Clement

    (415) 221-8736

7.  Congregation B'Nai B'Rit Ha Mashiach
    (415) 992-2079

8.  Congregation B'Nai Emunah (Conservative Jews - Give 'em HELL!)
    Rabbi Theodore R. Alexander
    3595 Taraval

    (415) 664-7373

9.  Congregation B'Nai Israel (also conservative)
    Rabbi Malcolm Cohen
    1575 Annie

    (415) 756-5430

10. Congregation Chevra Thilim
    751 25th Ave
    
    (415) 386-9570 

11. Congregation Emanu-El
    199 Arguello Bl.
 
    (415) 751-2535

12. Congregation Keneseth Israel
    1255 Post Suite 427
    
    (415) 771-3420

13. Congregation Magain David Sephardim
    351 4th Ave
  
    (415) 752-9095

14. Congregation Ner Tamid
    1250 Quintara

    (415) 661-3383

15. Congregation Sherith Israel
    2266 California

    (415) 346-1720

16. Hillel Foundation
    33 Banbury Dr.

    (415) 333-4922

17. Jewish Educational Center of SF
    538 29th Ave

    (415) 221-7045

18. United Synagogue of America
    425 Divisadero
    (415) 864-1051

Note - Some 42% of the problems of the US are a direct result of Jews.  This
       is not some hypothetical figure, it is thouroughly researched fact.
       One of the main reasons our troops are in the gulf is Israel. Why?
       They run practically all the biggest TV networks, newspapers, radio
       stations, higher posts, etc. in the USA.  



                             American Anti-Jewish League
                             ---------------------------

                                    UPDATE

So, now that Saddam Hussein has fired Scud missiles into Israel, and the
Jews have shown restraint, they immediately expect something from us.  Today
they asked for 13 billion more dollars (billion, not million).  In addition
to this, they have asked for another $10 billion from other countries. 
Why the hell do we have to send our tax dollars to them?  Why?  They have
everything they already need.  They have a huge air force, many nuclear
weapons, an army, navy, and money.  Why should we send them anything?  If
we are going to send money to someone, there are many other needier nations
on this planet who have none of the above.  Instead, we send this money to
a country which from its very beginning has caused trouble.  Possibly, no
other country has ever caused so many problems for humankind in history.
These Jewish pigs are now taking advantage of the circumstances to get many
of their ideas across, and thanks to Saddam, they are being very success-
ful.  All the TV networks (most of which are run by Jews (many of the news
directors are Jewish, plus anchormen as well, such as Ted Coppel, Larry
King, etc etc)) are interviewing Jewish state figures, and asking them
favorable questions.  CNN itself constantly interviews many Jewish heads
of state.  But very few Arab leaders/figures are interviews, and if done
so, not very rational figures are chosen so that people get the wrong
impression. (ie. those two Jordanian engineers on Nightline who do not  
reflect the majority opinion of Arabs)  All the Jewish pigs interviewed
have been saying: "Now the world knows what we have had to put up with
all these years", when in fact, it is exactly the opposite!  It is what
the Arab people have had to put up with, especially the Palestinians,
who unfortunately supported Saddam's aggression.  This is truly sad,
because it has given the Palestinians a very bad image, especially in
the USA.  Many of you are probably saying, "Oh, those poor Israelis,
look what they have to put up with.  If San Francisco was bombed, I
would do the same too."  And this is somewhat true; Saddam is a brutal
dictator, and the only thing he has done is help the Zionist pigs.
So here we go again; we've given them Patriot missile systems (each
Patriot missile costs $1 million - this is your TAX money!)  Now we're
about to give those pigs, who don't really need this money, another
$13 billion.  Of course the Arab countries will see us with an evil
eye.  Not only have we ignored them, but now we are putting the icing
on the Jewish cake.  This is enfuriating them.  The Jews are (they say
this, and it is true, but they also take advantage of inferior peoples.
Just trace Jewish history) smart people, they are literate, have schools,
money, etc.  Why can't they just get their own money?  They practically
run a third of our country.  Now, for restraining against immediate
attack (they will attack later though), they ask us for $13 billion.
This is an outrage! An absolute outrage!  Our economy is going down,
we are cutting from health care, and from education, there are many
programs here that need money, and what do we do?  We give those Jewish
pigs, who need the money less than we do, millions of dollars every
year.  So that they can in return take advantage of our resources.
I plead with you that you do something about this.  We have to stop
this.  Many of the people who run the USA our Jews.  Get them out
of their posts.  Please, we must do something about this NOW, before
it's too late to even start something.  Write letters.  Ask people.
Inform yourselves.  Read books (that are not biased - many of the
biggest publications companies are run by Jews)  Spread this file
around as many bulletin boards as possible.  Thank you for your 
time.

