"The Bermuda Triangle and Parapsychology" By Dave Beall


.    Although not embraced by the parapsychological community, the Bermuda
Triangle phenomena is an intriguing topic to the public.  Jane Roberts' Seth
claims the mysterious disappearances of ships and planes is the result of a
"coordination point", which is a place where time and space meet.  Supposed
energy "crystals" from the ancient culture of Atlantis, which Edgar Cayce
predicted would be discovered in the Atlantic Ocean, are suspected by some to
be responsible for the peculiar events in this region.  Some individuals
consider UFOs as the source of the phenomena.

.    A provacative theory has been proposed by geologists as a result of the
recent discover and subsequent laboratory analysis of an ice like substance
called hydrate.  A hydrate layer, formed by mixing cold sea water and natural
gas at immense pressures of the deep ocean, has been found on the ocean floor
in the triangle area, and this seal prevents natural venting of natural gas
from the large hydrocarbon desposits located there.

.    When a large natural gas pocket is suddenly released as a result of a
buildup in pressure or sea floor movement (i.e. faulting), ships can be
suddenly swallowed by the foamy mixture of gas and water and temporary
"islands" as much as one mile across can be visible on neighboring ship's radar
screens, as the gas enters the atmosphere.  Negative ions generated by agitated
sea water rise into the atmosphere along with the lighter-than-air-gas, causing
magnetic disturbances which could disrupt compass readings in the area.
Aircraft, passing over the gas blowout, could experience engine failure due to
oxygen starvation in the gas rich air and crash without a trace.

.    Any sinking wreckage from a plane or ship could be carried miles from the
accident site by the strong currents in the region, before being consumed by
thick bottom muds or hydrate accumulations, leaving no evidence.  The release
of trapped gas desposits ruptured by faulting in shallow ocean areas could
display similar characteristics, whithout hydrate, and the chance of a gas
blowout of this nature exists anywhere in the world's oceans where large
natural gas deposits are present.  In the case of the Bermuda Triangle
phenomena, it would appear that a reasonable explanation has been proposed.

.    Many aspects of parapsychology or related areas may not have solutions
which readily conform to known physical principles.  On the other hand, many
esoteric or metaphysical ideas may someday be explainable in purely physical
terms.  In an attempt to understand paranormal occurences, an individual should
remain open and objective until all of the evidence is in so that the
temptation towards premature and unfounded conclusions can be overcome.