From: (Spirit Of Truth)
Newsgroups: alt.astrology,alt.conspiracy,alt.war,sci.skeptic,sci.misc
Subject: CHERNOBYL WAS NO ACCIDENT...
Date: Tue, 23 Apr 96 22:11:49 EDT
Lines: 1096
Message-ID: <1777213825S86.JPA94001@UConnVM.UConn.Edu>
 
 
                    ***THE CHERNOBYL EXPERIMENT***
 
                              By J. Adams
                           April 23rd, 1996
 
 
       "...The  third  angel  sounded  and there fell a great star
    from heaven,  burning,  as it were a lamp,  and it fell on the
    third part of the rivers and upon the fountains of water;
 
       And the name of the star is Wormwood; and the third part of
    the  waters  became Wormwood,  and many men died of the waters
    because they were made bitter."
 
                         (Revelations 8:10-11)
 
 
       "The (Chernobyl) reactor was  consciously  driven  into  an
    extremely  dangerous  situation,  a  situation  known  for its
    dangers,  and then on top of  it  all  the  complete  security
    mechanisms  were  put  out  of  operation  - allegedly for the
    purpose of carrying  through  this  experiment,  even  if  the
    report  additionally  professes  that  at  least some of these
    switchoffs were not at  all  necessary  for  this  experiment.
    Under such conditions, according also to the knowledge of that
    time, one could not but know that one exposed the reactor to a
    dangerous   situation,   proceeding  from  which  unknown  big
    catastrophes became probable.  Nothing, nothing at all has the
    (Chernobyl)   catastrophe   to   do   with  a  coincidence  of
    unfortunate accidents.  On the contrary,  what  was  conducted
    there  must have lead directly to a ruinous accident,  exactly
    as driving a car with a speed of 140mph arround a corner  very
    probably leads to carrying the car out of the track."
 
         (From: 10th ANNIVERSARY OF THE CHERNOBYL CATASTROPHE:
      THE DECISIVE FACTS MUST AT LAST BE BROUGHT INTO THE PUBLIC)
 
 
    The Chernobyl disaster in the Soviet Ukraine on April 26, 1986 was
no accident.  To the contrary,  it was a sick,  intentional experiment
conducted  by  the  "former"  Communist government in Moscow to garner
knowledge about the effects of  radioactive  contamination.  For  what
reason?  To prepare to fight and survive a global nuclear war.
 
    For  those who have difficulty believing that Chernobyl was not an
accident, I suggest you first consider the rather profound connections
the reported "accident" had to astrology and biblical prophecy.
 
    On April 24th, 1986,  just preceding the fire and explosion at the
Chernobyl nuclear plant in the Soviet Ukraine, there was a total lunar
eclipse conjunct Pluto (the astrolog chart for  this  eclipse  and  an
excerpt from a related article I've written on "Kremlin Astrology" are
below).  At  first one might simply pass off as a coincidence the fact
that a  lunar  eclipse  occurred  in  connection  with  the  Chernobyl
disaster,  but what is key is that this eclipse was conjunct Pluto,  a
rare astronomic event.  What is even more significant  about  this  is
that  Pluto  is  the  planet  of explosive transformation and *nuclear
technology* (consider the word "pluto"nium).  Thus, Chernobyl happened
at  the  time  of  an  astrological  configuration  that   seemed   to
specifically  indicate  an explosive nuclear event.  This means people
in a position of  power,  i.e.,  Kremlin  leaders,  may  have  ordered
Chernobyl to occur at an astrologically appropriate time,  i.e.,  just
after the lunar eclipse conjunct Pluto on April 24th, 1986.
 
    If the evidence from astrology doesn't convince you that Chernobyl
was a planned rather than accidental event, consider the case that can
be made using biblical prophecy.  In the Bible's "Book of Revelation",
which  is  supposed  to  depict  the  fiery   conflict   called   "The
Apocalypse",  there  is  a  "Seventh  Seal" prophecy that many believe
specifically predicts a future nuclear war (see the  excerpt  from  my
article,  "The Truth",  below).  In this prophecy,  there is a passage
that mentions how the water will be poisoned by "Wormwood" (see above)
after  a  fiery  catastrophe.  This  is  most  interesting  since  the
Ukrainian word for "Wormwood" is "Chernobyl" (or  "Chornobyl",  as  is
explained in Mary Myco's article,  "A Legacy of Wormwood"- see below).
What this means is that the same powers who ordered Chernobyl to occur
at a *time* of ideal *astrological* significance also saw to  it  that
the disaster occurred at a *place* of key *prophetic* significance.
 
    Further  evidence  that  Chernobyl  was no accident comes from the
suspicious  circumstances  of the disaster.  As mentioned in the quote
above from "The 10th Anniversary  of  the  Chernobyl  Catatrophe:  The
decisive  facts  must at last be brought into the public" (see below),
the  series  of reported "mistakes" that went into the nuclear reactor
explosion at Chernobyl are literally *unbelievable*.  This is  because
what the world has been  told  is  a  lie.  Soviet  nuclear  personnel
intentionally  took  the  steps  necessary  to  generate a large-scale
explosion  at  the  Chernobyl  nuclear  power  plant.  As  the  author
explains:  "Nothing, nothing at all has the (Chernobyl) catastrophe to
do with a coincidence of unfortunate accidents.  On the contrary, what
was conducted there must have lead directly to a ruinous accident."
 
   Why would Kremlin authorities have staged the Chernobyl disaster?
 
    Most  likely  to  prepare  for fighting a nuclear war.  The events
that have been occurring according to  astrology  over  the  past  ten
years,  starting  with  the  Chernobyl  disaster,  appear to be geared
toward the outcome depicted in the Seventh Seal prophecy  of  a  fiery
Apocalypse, i.e., a future nuclear war.
 
    Chernobyl would have been a logical starting point  if,  in  1986,
Moscow  started  to  implement  a  multi-year plan,  say of ten years,
geared to fight and win a nuclear war against the West.  In  order  to
prepare  for  surviving  such a war,  the Kremlin first wanted to test
procedures and equipment that had been designed during  the  Cold  War
years  to  counter radioactive contamination and poisoning following a
nuclear war.  Also,  Communist leaders realized  the  need  to  garner
knowledge  about  the  immediate  and  lasting  effects of radioactive
contamination  on  people,  vegetation  and  livestock.   Accordingly,
during the mid-1980's, when Kremlin authorities decided to implement a
multi-year plan that would end in a nuclear war against the West, they
chose  to  first  stage  a  major nuclear disaster in the Ukraine as a
useful  preparatory  experiment.   From  this  diabolical  experiment,
Russian  scientists,  assisted by the West,  have gathered a wealth of
knowledge about the short-term and longer-term effects of radiation on
people, plants and animals.  Furthermore, the most effective equipment
and  procedures  have  been  developed  for  dealing  with radioactive
contamination and poisoning.  This,  of course,  will be of tremendous
value  if,  indeed,  Moscow  is planning to fight and survive a global
nuclear war.
 
NOTE:  For  those  of you who have a hard time accepting the idea that
Moscow is planning to wage a nuclear war against the West  based  upon
the  evidence  from  Chernobyl,  you  might  further  consider the new
underground command and control centre,  known as Kosvinskiy Mountain,
Russia  is  building  in  the  Ural mountains (see the related article
below or the recent New York Times article:  "Despite Cold War's  End,
Russia Keeps Building A Secret Complex";  4/16/96,  p.A1).  As US Navy
Admiral  William  Studeman,   former  Acting   Director   of   Central
Intelligence,  told  the  Senate  Armed  Services Committee last year:
"Preparedness for nuclear  conflict  with  the  United  States  -  not
withstanding  the  end of the Cold War - remains a resource allocation
priority (of Russia)." Why would this be  so  unless  the  Kremlin  is
planning to fight a nuclear war?
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                        ***KREMLIN ASTROLOGY***
 
                    'Zodiac and the Cross of Nero;
               How Astrology Guides Gorbachev's Russia'
 
                              By J. Adams
                          December 15th, 1995
                       Updated: April 23rd, 1996
 
    Astrology  was originally developed in ancient Persia,  especially
by the Babylonians.  King  Zargon,  for  instance,  had  his  scholars
compile   a   seventy-two  volume  astronomical  treatise  called  the
"Illumination Of Bel (their god)",  in which the  prophecy  above  was
included.  Astrology  was  important  to  Babylonian Kings like Zargon
because it was used for making important policy  decisions  like  when
and where to wage wars.
    The  use  of astrology by powerful dictators to make key decisions
and time important moves did not stop with Babylonian Kings,  however.
It is now widely recognized that Adolph Hitler used astrology to guide
his  important  moves.  Hitler  shaped his political moves and foreign
policy decisions,  like the timing of military campaigns in waging the
second world war, according to the stars. (See, for instance, Wilhwelm
T.   Wulff's  'Zodiac  &  Swastika;   How  Astrology  Guided  Hitler's
Germany', 1973).
    Today the evil dictators and conquerors of  the  world  are  again
relying   on   astrology   to   guide   their   moves.   Specifically,
*Gorbachev's* Russia (I believe Gorbachev is still the leading  figure
behind  the  scenes  in  Moscow today),  Saddam Hussein's Iraq and the
other authoritarian powers of the East are likely using the  stars  to
guide  a  multi-year  plan  to militarily destroy the West and thereby
conquer the world.  Thus,  upon  close  examination,  one  finds  that
almost all of the key events in Russia,  Iraq,  the former-Yugoslavia,
Chechnya, so on and so forth, over the past decade have coincided with
significant,  relatively rare astrological configurations.  (Note that
the  leadership  of the "opposing" factions in places like the former-
Yugoslavia and Chechnya are former Communist elite.  Thus,  no  matter
how much the opposite may appear to be the case, they are still likely
receiving their orders from the Kremlin.  That the Kremlin may control
all  sides  of  "staged"  conflicts  in  places  like the Chechnya was
revealed by KGB defector Anatoliy  Golitsyn  in  his  book  'New  Lies
For Old'.)
 
So  that  the use of astrology by the Kremlin and authoritarian powers
of the East is clear,  please consider the following examples of where
key    events   coincided   with   significant,    rare   astrological
configurations:
 
 
1.  *April 24th, 1986:  Total eclipse of the Moon conjunct Pluto.
 
      The following evening the Chernobyl disaster,  which was  likely
 no  accident  but  rather  a  sick experiment to garner knowledge for
 fighting a nuclear war, occurred in the Ukraine.
    Notably this configuration involved  the  planet  Pluto  which  is
 supposed   to  represent  explosive  events  and  nuclear  technology
 ("Pluto" is the root of the world "pluto"nium).
 
 
2.  *July 22nd, 1990:  Total solar eclipse.
 
    Marked when Iraq began massing forces on the Kuwaiti  border  just
 prior to the 1990 invasion.
 
 
3.  *August 2nd thru 7th, 1990:  Lunar eclipse squares Mars and Pluto.
 
    In  the  Market  Watch  section  of  the July 16th,  1990 issue of
 'Barron's',  there is an excerpt from  the  newsletter  of  financial
 astrologer Arch Crawford.  It reads in part:
 
   "...Aug.  6  (Lunar  Eclipse  squares Mars + Pluto).  Expect some
   major catastrophe on  that  last  one,  Aug.  2-7,  as  something
   explodes in a big way...  Astronomically similar to the Chernobyl
   disaster..."
 
    On August 2nd,  Iraq invaded Kuwait precipitating the Persian Gulf
 crisis.
 
 
4.  *January 15th, 1991: Solar eclipse with rare 6-planet alignment in
                         Capricorn (note:  in astrology  the  Sun  and
                         Moon are considered planets).
 
    January 15th,  1991 was the U.N.  deadline for Iraq to pull-out of
 Kuwait  before  the  allied  attack a day later- the beginning of the
 Gulf War.
 
     According to  an  ancient  Babylonian  prophecy,  "when  all  the
 planets  meet  in Capricorn the world will be destroyed by fire".  In
 January of 1991,  there was a six-planet alignment in Capricorn,  and
 Venus,  Jupiter  and  Pluto were heavily aspected in Capricorn and in
 tension with each other.  Thus,  from the perspective of  someone  in
 Iraq  and the site of ancient Babylon,  their "world was destroyed by
 fire" exactly as forecast in this astrological  prophecy  (see  Moira
 Timms' 'Beyond Prophecies and Predictions', pp.206 & 209).
 
 
5. *June 26th, 1991: Lunar eclipse of lunar/solar eclipse pair.  Also,
                     Pluto  was  squared  (90-degree  angle)   by   an
                     alignment of Venus, Mars and Jupiter.
 
    Marked the beginning of the civil war in Yugoslavia.
 
 
6.  *August 19th, 1991:  Alignment of Sun,  Moon,  Mercury,  Venus and
                         Jupiter in the zodiac sign of Leo.
 
    A  failed coup attempt by communist hardliners is staged in Moscow
 which supposedly brings an end to  the  Communist  Party  and  Soviet
 Union.
 
 
7.  *December 21st, 1991:  Lunar eclipse on the winter solstice.
 
    The Soviet flag comes down and the Russian flag is raised over the
 Kremlin as the Soviet Union is officially disbanded.
    A  few  days  after  this,  on  Christmas day (?!),  Soviet leader
 Mikhail Gorbachev resigned.
 
 
8.  *June 30th, 1992: Solar eclipse of lunar/solar eclipse pair.  This
                      eclipse  was  aligned  with  Venus,  Uranus  and
                      Neptune  and sextiled (60-degree angle) Mars and
                      Jupiter.
 
    First  U.N.   forces  arrive  in  Sarajevo  as  Western   military
 intervention in the former-Yugoslavia begins.
 
 
9.  *October 4th, 1993:  Pluto conjunct Moon squares (90-degree angle)
                         Saturn and trines (120-degree  angle)  Venus,
                         Uranus and Neptune.
 
    Political chaos erupts in Moscow following Russian President Boris
 Yeltsin's disbanding of the former-Soviet parliament.
 
 
10.  *December 13th, 1993:  Alignment of Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus and
                            Mars in Sagitarrius.
 
    Communists and Nationalists win the elections for  a  new  Russian
 parliament.  Of  particular  surprise  is the success of the "Liberal
 Democratic  Party  (?!)  led  by  Hitler-like  nationalist   Vladimir
 Zhirinovsky.
 
 
11. *January 12th, 1994:     Rare  seven-planet alignment in Capricorn
                             (five planets  and  the  sun  and  moon).
                             Tightest  alignment  of  seven planets in
                             300 years.
 
     U.S./Russia summit at which the superpowers sign an agreement  to
 no longer target each other with nuclear weapons.
    Alignment  also coincides with increased Serb shelling of Sarajevo
 and a NATO summit meeting at which the Western allies  agree  to  use
 force  in  the  former-Yugoslavia.  Within  a  month  the  first NATO
 ultimatum was issued for the withdrawal of Serb heavy  weaponry  from
 around a Sarajevan "safe-zone".
 
 
12.  *November 18th, 1994:  Lunar eclipse of solar/lunar eclipse pair.
                            Eclipse is aligned with Pluto and Jupiter,
                            squares  (90-degree angle) Mars and trines
                            (120-degree angle) Uranus and Neptune.
 
    Croatian Serb warplanes bomb the U.N.-protected Bihac  enclave  in
 violation of a NATO-enforced "no-fly zone".  NATO responds by bombing
 Serb positions. This is the first major use of military force against
 the  Serbs by NATO in the Balkan conflict  and  the  first  offensive
 military  action  ever  taken  by  NATO in the 45-year history of the
 alliance.
 
 
13. *December 11th, 1994: Mars squares conjunction of Pluto & Jupiter.
 
     Russia invades the breakaway republic of Chechnya.
 
 
14.  *April 29th, 1995:   Solar eclipse of lunar/solar  eclipse  pair.
                          Eclipse squares Neptune and Uranus.
 
    Croatian  Serb  warplanes bomb the U.N.-protected Bihac enclave in
 Bosnia in violation of a NATO enforced "no-fly zone" once again.  The
 Balkan war heats-up as a five-month cease-fire comes to an end.
 
 (Notably,  this  was  the first eclipse pair subsquent to the pair in
 November of 1994 which marked  the  only  other  time  Croatian  Serb
 warplanes bombed Bihac- both before and since.)
 
 
15.  *June 14th, 1995:  Mars squares alignment of Mercury,  Venus  and
                        and Jupiter.
 
    Similar to  configuration  on  December  11th,  1994  when  Russia
 invaded Chechnya.  This time,  a large group of Chechen rebels attack
 a town in southern Russia and take several hundred  patients  hostage
 at a hospital.  The incident ends violently with hundreds of Russians
 killed.
 
 
16.  *July 12th, 1995:    Alignment of Sun,  Moon,  Neptune and Uranus
                          trines (120-degree angle) Mars and  sextiles
                          (60-degree angle) Saturn and Pluto.
 
    Russian  President Boris Yeltsin reportedly suffers a heart attack
 while Bosnian Serb  forces  overrun  the  U.N.-protected  enclave  of
 Srebrenica.
 
 
17. *October 24th, 1995:   Mars and Pluto conjunct total solar eclipse.
 
    Russian President Boris Yetsin suffers a second heart attack since
 which he has still not recovered.
 
 
18.  *November 22nd, 1995:   7-planet alignment of Sun, Moon, Mercury,
                             Venus,   Mars,   Jupiter   and  Pluto  in
                             Sagitarrius.
 
    Serbs do a total about-face  and  reach  a  peace  agreement  with
 Bosnian and Croatian representatives at peace talks in Dayton,  Ohio.
 Some 60,000 NATO troops start heading into the  former-Yugoslavia  to
 take over the peace-keeping mission from the United Nations.
 
 
19.  *December 21st/22nd, 1995:    Clustering of  all  planets  in  or
                                   near  Capricorn  around the time of
                                   the winter solstice.
 
    Communists and nationalists win Russian parliamentary elections.
 
 
20.  *January 15th,  1996:  Moon  squares  alignment  of  Earth,  Sun,
                            Mercury, Mars and Uranus.
 
    Russian  forces  storm Chechen rebels holding hostages in southern
 Russia.
 
 
21.  *February 26th,  1996:  Sun conjunct Mars T-squares Pluto and the
                             moon,   which   are  in  opposition  (180
                             degrees apart).
 
    Configuration is similar to the one that marked when Iraq  invaded
 Kuwait  in August of 1990.  Notably,  February 26th is also the fifth
 anniversary of Kuwait's liberation from Iraqi occupation and the  end
 of the Gulf War.
 
    Wave  of terrorist bombings against Israel occur starting February
 25th as the Arabs begin to unravel the  false  peace  that  has  been
 established in the Middle East.
 
 
22.  *April 3rd, 1996:  Total lunar eclipse conjunct Mars and squared
                        by Jupiter.
 
    North Korea pulls out of the Korean War Armistice and then carries
 out  a  series  of  provocative armed incursions in the Demilitarized
 Zone separating the two Koreas.
 
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
         Astrolog Chart for the April 1986 lunar eclipse that
         coincided with the Chernobyl disaster in the Ukraine:
 
 
     +-------<11> 0Leo12----<10> 2Can11-----<9> 4Gem22-----------+
     º              º              º              º              º
     º              º              º              º              º
     º              º              º              º              º
     º              º              º              º              º
     <12> 0Vir19----º-----------------------------º----- 4Tau40<8>
     º              º                             º Sun  4Tau11  º
     º              º    Astrolog (4.10) chart    º              º
     º              º   Fri Apr 25 1986 12:00am   º              º
     º              º    +08:00   0:00W  0:00N    º              º
     <1> 2Lib36-----º    Placidus      Houses.    º----- 2Ari36<7>
     º              º   Julian Day = 2446545.17   º              º
     º              º                             º              º
     º              º                             º              º
     º              º                             º              º
     <2> 4Sco40-----º-----------------------------º----- 0Pis19<6>
     º Plu  6Sco02r º              º              º              º
     º Moo  6Sco03  º              º              º              º
     º              º              º              º              º
     º              º              º              º              º
     +----------- 4Sag22<3>----- 2Cap11<4>----- 0Aqu12<5>--------+
 
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                              "The Truth"
 
                              By J. Adams
                             October, 1994
 
     In  discussing  my  views  concerning a future surprise world war
 involving a nuclear holocaust triggered by  conflict  in  the  Middle
 East,  I  have  noticed  that  many  people  respond  by  saying  I'm
 predicting the "end of the world".  I then point out that I  did  not
 mention  biblical  prophecy.  Yet,  most  people  are  quick  to draw
 parallels between Christian predictions of an  Apocalypse  and  world
 war three (of course,  Jewish, Moslem, and most other world religions
 have their  own  prophetic  versions  of  the  Apocalypse).  This  is
 important  because I personally do believe that the global conflict I
 expect is,  indeed,  that which is predicted in the Bible.  In  fact,
 while  trying  to  determine what could cause the epic crash that now
 appears to be imminent, I, along with friends,  went through what can
 only  be  logically  classified as a private revelation that clued me
 into just how "The Crash" would most likely occur.
     Specifically,  the revelation I went through had to do  with  the
 seventh  seal  prophecy  from  the  eighth  chapter  of  the  Book of
 Revelation.  This prophecy is the  key  to  the  revelation  of  "The
 Truth"  in  the  context  of  the  Apocalypse  (the  word  apocalypse
 literally means "revelation").  After the seventh and final  seal  is
 broken  in  the  Book of Revelation,  the Apocalypse is unleashed and
 "The Truth" is revealed.  Thus,  the meaning behind the seventh  seal
 prophecy is of the utmost prophetic importance...
 
          When  the Lamb opened the seventh seal,  (1) there was
       silence in heaven for about half an hour.  Then I saw the
       seven angels who stand before  God,  and  seven  trumpets
       were  given to them.  And another angel came and stood at
       the alter with a golden censer;  and he  was  given  much
       incense to mingle with the prayers of all the saints upon
       the golden altar before the throne;  and the smoke of the
       incense rose with the prayers of the saints from the hand
       of the angel before God.  Then the angel took the  censer
       and  filled  it  with fire from the altar and threw it on
       the earth;  and (2) there were  peals  of  thunder,  loud
       noises, flashes of lightening, and an earthquake.
          Now  the  seven angels who had the seven trumpets made
       ready to blow them.
          The first  angel  blew  his  trumpet,  and  (3)  there
       followed hail and fire,  mixed with blood,  which fell on
       the earth;  and a third of the earth was burnt up,  and a
       third of the trees were burnt up, and all green grass was
       burnt up.
          The  second angel blew his trumpet,  and (4) something
       like a great mountain, burning with fire, was thrown into
       the sea;  and a third of the sea became blood, a third of
       the living creatures in the sea died,  and a third of the
       ships destroyed.
          The third angel blew his trumpet, and (5) a great star
       fell from heaven, blazing like a torch,  and it fell on a
       third  of  the rivers and on the fountains of water.  The
       name of the star is  Wormwood.  A  third  of  the  waters
       became wormwood,  and many men died of the water, because
       it was made bitter.
          The fourth angel blew his trumpet,  and (6) a third of
       the sun was struck,  and a third of the moon, and a third
       of the  stars,  so  that  a  third  of  their  light  was
       darkened;  a third of the day was kept from shining,  and
       likewise a third of the night.
          Then I looked, and I heard an eagle crying with a loud
       voice, as it flew in midheaven, "Woe,  woe,  woe to those
       who  dwell  on  the  earth,  at  the  blasts of the other
       trumpets which the three angels are about to blow!"
 
     I have long believed that this  prophecy  is  a  depiction  of  a
 future  nuclear war.  Even though it was written some 2000 years ago,
 it  accurately  describes  each  major  phase  of  a  global  nuclear
 holocaust:
 
 1.  The  half  hour  of "silence in heaven" during which ICBM's would
    traverse  their  orbits  before  striking  targets   after   being
    launched.
 
 2.  The thunderous reports, bright flashes, and earthquake associated
    with nuclear detonations.
 
 3.  The nuclear blasts of "hail and fire,  mixed with blood" followed
    by raging fires that would consume much of the earth.
 
 4.  The nuclear explosions,  "like a  great  mountain,  burning  with
    fire",  all over the world's seas as ports,  ships, and submarines
    are attacked.
 
 5.  The lethal contamination of water supplies by radioactive fallout
    ("Wormwood") for weeks after a nuclear war.
 
 6.  The blanketing of the sky by vast dust clouds after a nuclear war
    such that sunlight,  moonlight,  and starlight is obscured thereby
    causing a "nuclear winter".
 
     Over  the  years  my  conviction  has  grown  that  this prophecy
 predicts  a  future  nuclear  war.  First  off,  the  1986  Chernobyl
 disaster  in the Ukraine helped reveal the truth behind the prophecy.
 This is because,  as I later found out,  the Ukrainian word  for  the
 bitter  herb  "wormwood",  which  poisons  water  in the seventh seal
 prophecy,  is "Chernobyl"  (easily  referenced-  see,  for  instance:
 'Chernobyl' (1987), by Andrey Illesh).
     If  this were not enough,  in February of 1991,  in the middle of
 the Gulf War,  a couple of friends and I had some  rather  remarkable
 experiences  that  I believe confirmed the meaning of the prophecy as
 well as indicated its imminent fulfillment.  First off,  on  February
 6th,  I saw a special report of a chemical SCUD attack on Israel that
 did not exist (believe me,  I checked it out fully;  the  report  was
 never aired).  Then,  about a week later, I was with a friend of mine
 who had just become interested in  Nostradamus  and  prophecies  that
 might be connected with the Gulf War.  After showing him some books I
 had  on  Nostradamus,  I  began reading him the seventh seal prophecy
 above.  Just as I began reading it,  we  heard  an  air-  raid  siren
 followed  by  the  bellowed  percussion  of a nuclear explosion.  The
 authenticity of the experience led me to rush with  my  friend  to  a
 deep basement in a nearby building.  From there I contacted the local
 fire department to see if any sirens had been sounded;  however, none
 had.  After returning to our original location, my friend and I began
 checking with others to see if anyone else  had  heard  anything.  No
 one  else  had.   However,  another  friend  of  mine,  who  is  very
 trustworthy,  said that he had heard no air-raid siren that  evening-
 he  had heard one that afternoon.  When I asked him whether or not it
 could have been a fire alarm, he responded: "No, it was distinctly an
 air-raid siren off in the distance".
     Needless to  say,  these  extraordinary  experiences  led  me  to
 conclude  that  the  conflict  in  the  Persian Gulf might somehow be
 linked to a future global nuclear war- an event that  would  fit  the
 ultimate crash I have been anticipating.  Thus, I began to critically
 reexamine  the  events that had been taking place in the Gulf,  and I
 quickly realized there was something seriously amiss.  In  fact,  all
 the   inconsistencies  and  contradictions  pointed  to  one  logical
 explanation:  the Soviets  and  Iraq  were  engaging  in  large-scale
 strategic  deception  (see  my paper,  "The Persian Gulf Deception").
 The reason they would be doing this was clarified after examining the
 rather frightening  conclusion  of  our  national  security  analysts
 during the late-1970s and early-1980's: the Soviets were preparing to
 fight  and  win  a  nuclear war (see:  Richard Pipes' "Why the Soviet
 Union Thinks it could Fight and Win a Nuclear  War"  in  'Commentary'
 (July,  1977),  Dr.  William  Van  Cleave's "Soviet Strategic Nuclear
 Forces and Goals: Deception and Surprise" in 'Mesmerized By The Bear'
 (1987), and/or 'Soviet Strategy for Nuclear War' (1979),  authored by
 Joseph   Douglas).    Of   course,   with   remarkable   fear-induced
 irrationality, Western society has completely ignored the possibility
 that Gorbachev's "New Thinking" may have been the introduction  of  a
 total  lie  rooted  in  the unthinkable "Russian Idea" (see Alexander
 Yanov's 'The Russian Challenge and the Year 2000' (1987)).  There is,
 however, sufficient reason to believe this is the case.
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                Newsday
                             April 7, 1996
 
                        "A Legacy of Wormwood"
                             By Mary Myco
 
       "...The  third  angel  sounded  and there fell a great star
    from heaven,  burning,  as it were a lamp,  and it fell on the
    third part of the rivers and upon the fountains of water;
 
       And the name of the star is Wormwood; and the third part of
    the  waters  became Wormwood,  and many men died of the waters
    because they were made bitter."
 
                          Revelations 8:10-11
 
   TO  CONNECT  the  third biblical sign of the Apocalypse to the 1986
nuclear disaster at the then-Soviet power station 80  miles  north  of
Kiev,  you  first  have  to  pronounce  that  station's  name  as  the
Ukrainian:   "ChOrnobyl,"  rather   than   the   generally   accepted:
"ChErnobyl. "
 
   A Russified version of a Ukrainian word,  " Chernobyl" doesn't even
appear  in  either  language's dictionary.  Nor will you see it on the
road  signs  in  the  contaminated  36-mile-wide  Zone  of  Alienation
circling the gutted reactor. Since Ukraine inherited the Rhode Island-
sized  region  from the late Soviet Union in 1991,  all the "e's" have
been taped over with "o's" to spell "Chornobyl."
 
   Chornobyl is the Ukrainian word  for  wormwood,  a  medicinal  herb
endowed  with magical powers in folklore.  And it truly became a force
to conjure after the Chornobyl station's fourth  reactor  exploded  on
April 26, 1986.  The cloud of radioactive wormwood subsequently spewed
around the globe  seemed  like  a  bitter  foretaste  of  the  nuclear
holocaust that would end the world.
 
   Luckily,  the  world is still here.  But viewed through the crystal
ball of hindsight,  the disaster did herald doom for the Soviet Union.
Like the  badly  designed  Chornobyl  reactor,  the  Communist  empire
collapsed under pressure,  and the 20-story "sarcophagus" encasing the
radioactive reactor core in concrete and steel seems  like  a  fitting
tombstone for both.
 
   Eventually,  someone  will have to devise a semiotic danger sign to
ward off the unsuspecting in future millennia, when our languages will
have been forgotten but the mess inside the sarcophagus will still  be
radioactive.
 
   For  now,  the  real epitaph is two miles away in the ghost town of
Pripyat,  where a mural on one of  the  dozens  of  modern  high-rises
vacantly overlooking poplar-lined streets proclaims:
 
                         "The Party of Lenin,
                       The power of the people,
                Leads us to the triumph of Communism!"
 
   Instead  of  triumph,  the  Party of Lenin led the 45,000 people of
Pripyat,  plus 90,000 more from villages and towns in the contaminated
Polissia region, to abandon their homes permanently.
 
   Now,  it  will  take  more  than  two  centuries for the cesium and
strontium contaminating most parts of the Zone of Alienation to  decay
away. The deadly plutonium in the six-mile ring closest to the reactor
will, as a practical matter, last forever.
 
   Small wonder that no more than 10,000 people work (but rarely live)
in  the Zone these days.  Almost all are in two different places named
Chornobyl:  the nuclear station, where two controversial reactors Kiev
promises to close are still running, and the town 12 miles away, where
the  administration  of  the Zone of Alienation performs its dystopian
task of running the no-man's land.
 
   The work has incentives.  Wages are double to triple the  Ukrainian
average, while radiation exposure rules limit work to just two weeks a
month.
 
   But I still had my doubts. "Don't you worry about the radiation?" I
asked my tour guide, Oleksandr Shevchenko.
 
   "Most of the time there's no danger," he assured me.  Like all Zone
men,  he was dressed in camouflage.  The uniforms are a  nod  to  male
workers' sartorial simplicity rather than safety.  Women wear whatever
they want.
 
   But everyone wears one of the clip-on  dosimeters  that  Shevchenko
showed me.  "I don't want to know what it reads," he said, explaining:
"If I reach my yearly exposure, they wouldn't let me work here.  So if
I'm here, I must be OK."
 
   Actually,  on the day I visited,  the background radiation in  most
parts  of  the  Zone  was  normal.  After 10 years,  95 percent of the
radioactivity has sunk about an inch into the soil,  securing it  from
being blown about in surface dust.  Snow, too, is a shield.  My winter
visit was no accident.
 
   I expected a desolate wasteland.  In fact,  the Zone is  very  much
alive.  The  removal  of  135,000 humans has created a wildlife refuge
with a population explosion of perfectly healthy-looking boar,  moose,
deer,  wolves and smaller animals.  I even spotted a rare golden eagle
soaring above the treetops in the six-mile innermost  ring,  drawn  by
the abundance of prey - and the lack of people.
 
   Because  cesium  and strontium have long since passed from the soil
into the food chain,  both the prey and the predators are radioactive.
And  if  a  cesium-packed  roebuck  bounds  out  of  the  Zone  into a
neighboring  forest  and  dies,   its  body  will  leave  a  patch  of
contamination where there had been none before.
 
   That's just one way that radionuclides,  or radioactive atoms, move
around in the wild. Scientists call the process "migration" and try to
prevent  it  by  immobilizing  radionuclides  in  one  place  where  a
metaphorical eye can be kept on them.
 
   Soil  isn't one of those places.  Aside from insinuating themselves
into the food chain,  radionuclides can eventually migrate down to the
water  table.  But early efforts to decontaminate soil with radiation-
absorbing plants created a new  problem:  disposing  of  the  harvest.
Smoke  from  burning would be radioactive.  And burial isn't an option
either because there is already too much contaminated garbage  in  the
Zone's 800 leaky "graveyards."
 
   That's  why so much "hot" debris,  such as the huge concrete blocks
that spell out the slogan, "The Forest is the Source of Health," still
stand in the same place as 10 years ago.
 
   Like nearly everything in this symbol-laden  landscape,  that  sign
from a pre-Chornobyl forestry farm has acquired new meaning. Trees, it
turns   out,   are   the   best   and  cheapest  way  of  immobilizing
radionuclides,  which concentrate in bark where they can safely  decay
away  in  the centuries of a tree's lifetime.  The danger then becomes
fires, such as the one that raged through the Zone in 1991.
 
   Once upon a time,  according to folklore,  the  biggest  danger  in
Ukrainian  forests was from woodland nymphs called mavky.  Mavky lured
their victims with beautiful songs,  then tickled them to  death.  For
reasons  folklore doesn't explain,  the only way to ward off mavky was
with wormwood, an herb they feared immensely.
 
   Now, 10 years after Chornobyl, few people venture into the wormwood
forests of the Zone.  Mushroom and berry picking are forbidden;  so is
hunting.  But  for  the  rangers  who work in the woods,  clearing out
deadwood and fighting the radioactive fires that deadwood  can  start,
there's  at  least  one  consolation for the risk:  They needn't worry
about mavky anymore.
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------
           The following was taken off of the network news:
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
            10th ANNIVERSARY OF THE CHERNOBYL CATASTROPHE:
      THE DECISIVE FACTS MUST AT LAST BE BROUGHT INTO THE PUBLIC
 
    On April the 26th the catastrophe of Chernobyl will be  ten  years
ago.  Again  numerous  commemorative  articles will be published,  and
there will  be  demonstrations.  But  the  very  backgrounds  of  that
catastrophe,  which lie open,  at least for a considerable part,  will
not be dealt with there.  We consider it necessary  to  carry  exactly
these  facts  into  the  public,  which  also inevitably shall shed an
essential light upon the whole green campaign and the movement against
nuclear power stations,  even alone by their  being  laid  open.  This
incident,  this  catastrophe  was actually instantly used by the whole
green movement and by all parliamentary  parties  to  demand  "instant
stoppage"  of nuclear energy in the Federal Republic of Germany.  This
relationship between a catastrophe of a nuclear power station  abroad,
in  the  present  case  in the Soviet Union,  and an especially heavy-
weighted campaign in this country needs indeed  to  be  examined.  For
this  purpose the publication of the backgrounds,  among other things,
is very helpful.  We  demand  unambiguously  an  end  to  the  virtual
withholding of these facts in the public.
 
Still  during  the  same year 1986 are published a Soviet report about
the  technical  details  as  well  as   publications   by   the   IAEA
(International Atomic Energy Agency) and by the German Association for
Reactor  Safety (GRS).  Except for a short-time mentioning of the main
results by some renown newspapers,  the reports are not dealt with  in
the  public,  especially  not  by the media which are decisive for the
broad public.  Therefore here we go into the details  of  the  Russian
report  and  its  peculiarities.  Already then,  during summer 1986 it
became clear that the security systems of the reactor were put out  of
operation  within  the  framework  of  experiments,  and  that a heavy
manipulation of the reactor had been undertaken.  This in turn led  to
numerous questions.
 
              -The report of the Soviet State Committee-
 
The  report itself contains a sequence of extremely rude interventions
into the reactor,  of systematic setting aside all  provided  security
installations,  so  that  one must ask oneself what was in the mind of
the operators when they  manipulated  the  reactor  in  this  way  and
executed  the most daredevil "experiments" with it.  The report on the
one hand depicts numerous details of the  technical  process  in  this
way,  in  order  to  sum up the event by the completely unsuitable and
appeasing terms of  "operating  mistake"  or  "breaking  of  operating
instructions"  and  in  this way to evade all decisive questions.  The
IAEA,  by the way,  is an instrument of the so-called  Atomic  Weapons
Nonproliferation  Treaty  and  as such covers up,  as it were the most
natural thing in the world,  the nuclear  hegemony  of  the  then  two
"Superpowers",  which  means  that  the  supreme  nuclear  powers  are
entitled to control all the remaining countries, but not the other way
round.
 
Many questions,  concerning the responsibility for the  incident,  the
origin of explosions at the reactor remain unanswered,  or in the best
case are being fobbed off with vague hypotheses.
 
The  reactor  was  consciously  driven  into  an  extremely  dangerous
situation,  a  situation known for its dangers,  and then on top of it
all the complete security mechanisms  were  put  out  of  operation  -
allegedly for the purpose of carrying through this experiment, even if
the  report  additionally  professes  that  at  least  some  of  these
switchoffs were not at all necessary for this experiment.  Under  such
conditions,  according  also to the knowledge of that time,  one could
not but know that one exposed the reactor to  a  dangerous  situation,
proceeding  from  which  unknown  big  catastrophes  became  probable.
Nothing,  nothing at all has the catastrophe to do with a  coincidence
of unfortunate accidents.  On the contrary.  What was conducted there,
must have lead directly to a ruinous accident,  exactly as  driving  a
car  with  a  speed  of 140mph arround a corner very probably leads to
carrying the car out of the track.
 
For some pages the report reads in the  following  manner:  here  they
undertook  this  forbidden  manoeuvre and violated that rules,  and in
order to make the experiment possible at all, this and afterwards that
security device was put out of operation.
 
The immediate cause of the desaster was an alleged experiment to  use,
for internal requirements, the current of the turbogenerator coming to
a stop.  First of all in general it is astonishing that such a reactor
fully equipped with radioactive fuel rods is said to be  used  by  its
crew as a simple "test object",  normally for experiments of that kind
test devices are being used for the first time.  The report  puts  the
entire  blame on the personnel,  on its thoughtlessness.  On the other
hand it can be seen from the report itself  that  the  experiment  was
directed by a person who was not a specialist for reactors, but only a
"ordinary  electrical engineer".  He apparently gave his directives to
the present operating crew. It reads for example:
 
"The operators attempted manually to sustain the  main  parameters  of
the system - steam pressure and the water level in the drum separators
-  but  they did not entirely succeed in doing so.  At this stage they
saw the steam pressure in the drum separators sag by 0.5-0.6  MPa  and
the  water  level  drop  below  the emergency mark.  In order to avoid
shutting down the reactor in such conditions,  the staff  blocked  the
emergency protection signals relating to these parameters. At the same
time,  the  reactivity  continued  to  drop  slowly.  At 1:22:30,  the
operator saw from a printout of the fast reactivity evaluation program
that the available excess reactivity had  reached  a  level  requiring
immediate  shutdown of the reactor.  Nevertheless,  the staff were not
stopped by this and began with the experiments." (p. 16/17) ›1|
 
 
These sentences one must read twice indeed,  as they  show  the  whole
purposefulness  of the proceeding.  Who ordered such a reckless way of
proceeding at the reactor?  That engineer who was not  an  expert  for
reactors at all? About this responsibility the report is silent.
 
After  that  the  security device for the case of both turbogenerators
being switched off is put out of function.
 
The report says: "This meant a further departure from the experimental
programme,  which did not call for blocking  the  reactor's  emergency
protection with the switching off of two turbogenerators." (p. 17) ›2|
 
Shortly  after  1  h 23 min suddenly the reactivity of the fuel in the
reactor,  which had been highly manipulated and forcibly brought down,
increases massively.  The operator tries an emergency shut-down, which
however - says the report - fails.
 
Then it is said: "According to observers outside unit 4, at about 1:24
there occurred two explosions one after the other;  burning  lumps  of
material and sparks shot into the air above the reactor, some of which
fell  onto  the roof of the machine room and started a fire." (p.  17)
›3|
 
 
Later an attempt to explain these explosions was  undertaken  using  a
mathematical computing model,  but nowhere they are being explained in
a really conclusive manner.  Mathematical  models  have  only  limited
meaningfulness  and  normally serve to put somebody on the right track
leading to the determination of the results. One question, which poses
itself in this framework,  and which also could show something to  the
investigation  about  the backgrounds of the catastrophe,  consists in
the following:  Was a mathematical model about the consequences put up
prior  to  proceeding  to  the  apparent  planful  manipulation of the
reactor?  That would seem natural.  If such methods of a  mathematical
simulation  are at hand,  why not make use of them in advance,  in the
case of such dangerous  processes?  In  case  the  simulation  existed
however: what did it tell?
 
176 persons were present in the whole plant, of whom a part was in the
concerned  reactor unit 4.  According to the Soviet statements of that
time the most part of this personnel must have survived this incident.
But at the same time this explosion from the inside is  said  to  have
overturned a slab of 1.000 tons. How can men survive such an explosion
in the inside?
 
About the causes of the incident it is said in the Soviet report:  "As
shown by the analysis presented above, the accident in the fourth unit
of  the  Chernobyl'  nuclear  power  plant  belongs to the category of
accidents associated with the introduction of excess  reactivity.  The
design  of  the  reactor facility provided for protection against this
type of accident with allowance for the  physical  characteristics  of
the   reactor,   including   a  positive  steam  void  coefficient  of
reactivity." (p. 22) ›4|
 
(This coefficient describes a  characteristic  feature  of  the  RMBK-
reactor  which  means  that at an increase of the steam content of the
cooling water the power may rise under certain conditions.)
 
And exactly these protective devices were put out of function.
 
"The accident assumed catastrophic proportions because the reactor was
taken by the staff into a non-regulation state in which  the  positive
void  coefficient  of reactivity was able substantially to enhance the
power excursion." (p. 23) ›5|
 
By the explosions and  the  entire  proceeding  described  here  great
masses  of radioactivity came into the air and were scattered over the
European continent by the winds.  They led to a  serious  increase  of
radioactivity  in some nearer regions.  The immediate surrounding area
had to be evacuated.  During the following days  the  sealing  of  the
reactor  building  and  the extinction of the fire are undertaken with
great energy, and with success.  The days after the catastrophe are at
the  same  time days of the biggest nuclear protection manoeuvres,  of
fight against nuclear fire, of confinement and, as far as possible, of
decontamination of the environment.  The reactor units 1 and 2 in  the
immediate vicinity of the reactor 4 continue to work for 24 hours even
on the day of the catastrophe!!!
 
This description,  too,  shows, by the way, that the propaganda, as it
went here, had the intention, even though the catastrophe was serious,
to make a really mystical matter out  of  it,  aiming  at  engendering
general  fear  of  the  big technology.  This has nothing to do with a
realistic assessment,  this is propagandistic intention  on  principle
which  benefits  all those who pushed for desindustrialization and who
are trying to disseminate uncertainty about the material fundaments of
society.
 
The report by those politically responsible of  the  Soviet  Union  of
that  time  does not keep completely quiet either about its intentions
regarding the political conclusions:
 
"The fact that the contemporary world is full of potentially dangerous
industrial  production   processes   significantly   aggravating   the
consequences  of  military  actions  gives  a  new  perspective to the
senselessness and inadmissibility of war in today's world." (p. 3) ›6|
 
At that time the possibility of an  attack  of  a  potential  military
enemy against atomic energy plants, and that therefore they should not
been  constructed,  was  frequently being discussed.  The advocates of
this opinion were the  same  who  preached  the  so-called  policy  of
detente. Very interesting: there happens an alleged "incident", with a
Soviet  reactor,  and the same responsible people warn other countries
against their atomic energy plants and  industrial  plants,  that  the
world  was full of them,  that is to say more plants apparently should
not be erected. So these are de facto threats of the Soviet leadership
of that time connected to the occurrence of a catastrophe  under  very
dubious  circumstances in their country.  * And after that Gorbatchov,
under whom the USA gained a decisive influence  in  the  Soviet  Union
itself,  declares  that  on  the  occasion  of  Chernobyl  one  should
cooperate more closely with the IAEA,  which possibly  should  control
internationally  more  strictly  the entire atomic industry,  also the
Russian one.
 
 
                      THE CONCLUSIONS OF THE GRS
              (ASSOCIATION FOR THE SECURITY OF REACTORS)
 
    There  also  exists,  subsequent  to  this  report,  an  extensive
description  of the GRS "New insights into the incident in the nuclear
power station Chernobyl .. state: Oct. 1986".  Here too the astounding
circumstances cannot be concealed,  but also here it is  attempted  to
rubricate the whole thing simply under "human error", under "violation
of regulations".
 
Psychology  is  bothered:  The crew had had big ambitions and had been
willing to carry through this experiment  with  greater  speed.  Other
questions,  more  essential ones,  as for the political context,  into
which the Soviet Union itself wanted to put  this  aubject,  questions
for  the  responsibility  of this "experiment program" at the reactor,
which was carried through without any responsibility,  apparently  are
not being asked.
 
Summing up this report says:
 
"This  misconduct  consists  in conscious and blatant injuries against
binding regulations.  The frequency and the importance of the mistaken
actions   indicate   that  the  practice  of  running  the  plant  was
throughout,  not only in  an  isolated  manner  at  April  26th  1986,
characterized  by  an  attitude  of  lack  of  awareness  of  security
matters." (p. 34) ›7|
 
It is ridiculous to say that irresponsible actions of that kind  -such
a characterization is not employed by the IAEA or by the GRS! - are to
be  put  down only on a lack of awareness of security matters.  Even a
nonprofessional would  know,  that  such  actions  at  a  reactor  are
mortally  dangerous,  not  only  for the crew.  A serious striving for
finding out the background of this behaviour cannot be  recognized  on
the part of the IAEA or the GRS. The question who ordered this program
of experiments or by which superior authorities these experiments were
approved,  is not asked.  Neither any evidence is published about what
statements the responsible people of  that  "shift"  made  during  the
investigations,  or  if all of them lost their lives at the incident -
according to the Soviet description this may hardly be the case.
 
Erasing all these points it  is  said  only:  "The  behaviour  of  the
personnel  in  connection with substantial weaknesses of the design of
the plant was the cause for the incident at the nuclear power  station
of Chernobyl." (p. 33) ›8|
 
Weaknesses  of  the personnel and weaknesses of the construction -this
is the whole litany,  an utterly cheap litany which by no  means  does
justice to the quality of the things.  Equally naive are the proposals
by which events of that kind shall be prevented in the future:
 
"Training of the personnel stressing especially the  understanding  of
the  processes in the reactor and during the operation of the reactor,
including training at simulators which represent  also  the  processes
during heavy incidents in a realistic manner." (p.  32) ›9|
 
Can  one  assume  seriously  that  the  crew  which  had  been working
successfully for years at the reactor (says the  report  itself)  does
not know the dangerous potential residing in it??  The regulations for
the operation of the reactor do indeed show the danger of the  reactor
at low power level .
 
Then it reads in the report of the GRS: "As a conscious bringing about
of  the  incident  can  be  excluded,  the  behaviour of the personnel
becomes understandable only if  one  assumes  that  it  did  not  know
sufficiently the behaviour of the reactor at low power levels." (p.34)
›10|
 
This  formulation  shows  that  even the editors of this report had to
deal with the question of a  conscious  bringing  about  of  an  heavy
ruinous incident,  but why this possibility is excluded in face of the
whole chain of actions which  made  it  possible,  stays  without  any
detailed argumentation.
 
 
References:
 
›1| ›2| ›3| › 4| ›5| ›6|
USSR  State Committee on the Utilization of Atomic Energy The Accident
at  the  Chernobyl'  Nuclear  Power  Plant   and   its   Consequences.
Information  Compiled  for the IAEA's Experts' Meeting,  25-29- August
1986, Vienna Part I. General Material Draft August 1986
 
›7| ›8| ›9| ›10|
Gesellschaft fuer Reaktorsicherheit (GRS) mbH,  Koeln/Garching  Neuere
Erkenntnisse zum Unfall im Kernkraftwerk Tschernobyl.  Stand:  Oktober
1986 (2nd ed.  Febr.  1987) (The quotations from this publication were
translated by us).
 
*Note:  The German translation of this passage is even more outspoken.
It uses the expression:  "satiation" - (of the contemporary world with
potentially  dangerous industrial production processes etc.) It is not
clear  if  this  expression  stems  from  the  Soviet   original   and
subsequently was weakened by the English translation, or if the German
translator introduced it into the context.
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------
                             NEUE EINHEIT
            Zeitschrift fuer Politik, Oekonomie und Kultur
                         - Extrablatt Nr.25 -
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Newsgroups: soc.culture.soviet,alt.current-events.russia
Subject: Re: Russia prepares for nuclear war
Date: Thu, 11 Jan 96 23:01:32 EST
 
 
                         Jane's Defence Weekly
                          December  16, 1995
                       (Vol. 24; No. 25; Pg. 5)
 
             Russia 'is still preparing for war with USA'
 
                           By Barbara Starr
 
Preparation  for  nuclear  war  with  the USA appears to remain a high
Russian priority, according to statements by US intelligence community
officials recently made public.
 
One sign is a new Russian  underground  command  and  control  centre,
known as Kosvinskiy Mountain, that has been built in the Urals.  It is
"one  of  the  main  new  elements" of the Russian underground nuclear
command and control architecture that has  emerged  since  the  Soviet
Union dissolved, US Navy Adm William Studeman, then Acting Director of
Central Intelligence, told the Senate Armed Services Committee earlier
this year.
 
The  statements  were  in  reply  to  SASC  questions following public
hearings in January.  The answers and parts of the  classified  closed
hearing that followed the public session, were released recently.
 
"While  some  of  this  construction appears to be the continuation of
programmes started long before the break-up,  it still appears  to  be
high-priority  to  correct  perceived vulnerabilities in their nuclear
command and control system," said Adm Studeman.
 
"Preparedness for nuclear  conflict  with  the  United  States  -  not
withstanding  the  end of the Cold War - remains a resource allocation
priority."
 
Lt Gen James Clapper,  who was Director of  the  Defense  Intelligence
Agency  during  the  hearing,  told  the committee the bunker facility
"will be a new  part  of  Russia's  multi-billion  dollar  effort"  to
modernize its nuclear infrastructure.
 
The Russians appear to be seeking to improve their ability to absorb a
nuclear strike, reducing their incentives for early nuclear use.
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------
                 (All articles are for fair use only.)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

