From: Bill Cooper <dont.tread.on.me@usa.com> 
Newsgroups: alt.conspiracy 
Subject: READ BEFORE "THEY" DELETE! 
Date: Tue, 22 Oct 1996 22:12:01 -0400 
Message-ID: <326D7EF1.9B4@usa.com> 

   TOP SECRET

   Silent Weapons for Quiet Wars

    An introductory programming manual    Operations Research     
Technical Manual      TM-SW7905.1

   Welcome Aboard 

   This publication marks the 25th anniversary of the Third World 
War, called the "Quiet War", being conducted using subjective 
biological warfare, fought with "silent weapons." 

   This book contains an introductory description of this war, its 
strategies, and its weaponry. 

   May 1979 #74-1120 



    SECURITY

   It is patently impossible to discuss social engineering or the 
automation of a society, i.e., the engineering of social automation 
systems (silent weapons) on a national or worldwide scale without 
implying extensive objectives of social control and destruction of 
human life, i.e., slavery and genocide. 

   This manual is in itself an analog declaration of intent. Such a 
writing must be secured from public scrutiny. Otherwise, it might be 
recognized as a technically formal declaration of domestic war. 
Furthermore, whenever any person or group of persons in a position 
of great power and without full knowledge and consent of the public, 
uses such knowledge and methodologies for economic conquest - it 
must be understood that a state of domestic warfare exists between 
said person or group of persons and the public. 

   The solution of today's problems requires an approach which is 
ruthlessly candid, with no agonizing over religious, moral or 
cultural values. 

   You have qualified for this project because of your ability to 
look at human society with cold objectivity, and yet analyze and 
discuss your observations and conclusions with others of similar 
intellectual capacity without the loss of discretion or humility. 
Such virtues are exercised in your own best interest. Do not deviate 
from them. 

    [ table of contents ] 



    HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION

   Silent weapon technology has evolved from Operations Research 
(O.R.), a strategic and tactical methodology developed under the 
Military Management in England during World War II. The original 
purpose of Operations Research was to study the strategic and 
tactical problems of air and land defense with the objective of 
effective use of limited military resources against foreign enemies 
(i.e., logistics). 

   It was soon recognized by those in positions of power that the 
same methods might be useful for totally controlling a society. But 
better tools were necessary. 

   Social engineering (the analysis and automation of a society) 
requires the correlation of great amounts of constantly changing 
economic information (data), so a high-speed computerized data-
processing system was necessary which could race ahead of the 
society and predict when society would arrive for capitulation. 

   Relay computers were to slow, but the electronic computer, 
invented in 1946 by J. Presper Eckert and John W. Mauchly, filled 
the bill. 

   The next breakthrough was the development of the simplex method 
of linear programming in 1947 by the mathematician George B. 
Dantzig. 

   Then in 1948, the transistor, invented by J. Bardeen, W.H. 
Brattain, and W. Shockley, promised great expansion of the computer 
field by reducing space and power requirements. 

   With these three inventions under their direction, those in 
positions of power strongly suspected that it was possible for them 
to control the whole world with the push of a button. 

   Immediately, the Rockefeller Foundation got in on the ground 
floor by making a four-year grant to Harvard College, funding the 
Harvard Economic Research Project for the study of the structure of 
the American Economy. One year later, in 1949, The United States Air 
Force joined in. 

   In 1952 the grant period terminated, and a high-level meeting of 
the Elite was held to determine the next phase of social operations 
research. The Harvard project had been very fruitful, as is borne 
out by the publication of some of its results in 1953 suggesting the 
feasibility of economic (social) engineering. (Studies in the 
Structure of the American Economy - copyright 1953 by Wassily 
Leontief, International Science Press Inc., White Plains, New York). 

   Engineered in the last half of the decade of the 1940's, the new 
Quiet War machine stood, so to speak, in sparkling gold-plated 
hardware on the showroom floor by 1954. 

   With the creation of the maser in 1954, the promise of unlocking 
unlimited sources of fusion atomic energy from the heavy hydrogen in 
sea water and the consequent availability of unlimited social power 
was a possibility only decades away. 

   The combination was irresistible. 

   The Quiet War was quietly declared by the International Elite at 
a meeting held in 1954. 

   Although the silent weapons system was nearly exposed 13 years 
later, the evolution of the new weapon-system has never suffered any 
major setbacks. 

   This volume marks the 25th anniversary of the beginning of the 
Quiet War. Already this domestic war has had many victories on many 
fronts throughout the world. 

    [ table of contents ] 



     POLITICAL INTRODUCTION

   In 1954 it was well recognized by those in positions of authority 
that it was only a matter of time, only a few decades, before the 
general public would be able to grasp and upset the cradle of power, 
for the very elements of the new silent-weapon technology were as 
accessible for a public utopia as they were for providing a private 
utopia. 

   The issue of primary concern, that of dominance, revolved around 
the subject of the energy sciences. 

    [ table of contents ] 



      ENERGY

   Energy is recognized as the key to all activity on earth. Natural 
science is the study of the sources and control of natural energy, 
and social science, theoretically expressed as economics, is the 
study of the sources and control of social energy. Both are 
bookkeeping systems: mathematics. Therefore, mathematics is the 
primary energy science. And the bookkeeper can be king if the public 
can be kept ignorant of the methodology of the bookkeeping. 

   All science is merely a means to an end. The means is knowledge. 
The end is control. Beyond this remains only one issue: Who will be 
the beneficiary? 

   In 1954 this was the issue of primary concern. Although the so-
called "moral issues" were raised, in view of the law of natural 
selection it was agreed that a nation or world of people who will 
not use their intelligence are no better than animals who do not 
have intelligence. Such people are beasts of burden and steaks on 
the table by choice and consent. 

   Consequently, in the interest of future world order, peace, and 
tranquillity, it was decided to privately wage a quiet war against 
the American public with an ultimate objective of permanently 
shifting the natural and social energy (wealth) of the undisciplined 
and irresponsible many into the hands of the self-disciplined, 
responsible, and worthy few. 

   In order to implement this objective, it was necessary to create, 
secure, and apply new weapons which, as it turned out, were a class 
of weapons so subtle and sophisticated in their principle of 
operation and public appearance as to earn for themselves the name 
"silent weapons." 

   In conclusion, the objective of economic research, as conducted 
by the magnates of capital (banking) and the industries of 
commodities (goods) and services, is the establishment of an economy 
which is totally predictable and manipulatable. 

   In order to achieve a totally predictable economy, the low-class 
elements of society must be brought under total control, i.e., must 
be housebroken, trained, and assigned a yoke and long-term social 
duties from a very early age, before they have an opportunity to 
question the propriety of the matter. In order to achieve such 
conformity, the lower-class family unit must be disintegrated by a 
process of increasing preoccupation of the parents and the 
establishment of government-operated day-care centers for the 
occupationally orphaned children. 

   The quality of education given to the lower class must be of the 
poorest sort, so that the moat of ignorance isolating the inferior 
class from the superior class is and remains incomprehensible to the 
inferior class. With such an initial handicap, even bright lower 
class individuals have little if any hope of extricating themselves 
from their assigned lot in life. This form of slavery is essential 
to maintain some measure of social order, peace, and tranquillity 
for the ruling upper class. 

    [ table of contents ] 



     DESCRIPTIVE INTRODUCTION OF THE SILENT WEAPON

   Everything that is expected from an ordinary weapon is expected 
from a silent weapon by its creators, but only in its own manner of 
functioning. 

   It shoots situations, instead of bullets; propelled by data 
processing, instead of chemical reaction (explosion); originating 
from bits of data, instead of grains of gunpowder; from a computer, 
instead of a gun; operated by a computer programmer, instead of a 
marksman; under the orders of a banking magnate, instead of a 
military general. 

   It makes no obvious explosive noises, causes no obvious physical 
or mental injuries, and does not obviously interfere with anyone's 
daily social life. 

   Yet it makes an unmistakable "noise," causes unmistakable 
physical and mental damage, and unmistakably interferes with the 
daily social life, i.e., unmistakable to a trained observer, one who 
knows what to look for. 

   The public cannot comprehend this weapon, and therefore cannot 
believe that they are being attacked and subdued by a weapon. 

   The public might instinctively feel that something is wrong, but 
that is because of the technical nature of the silent weapon, they 
cannot express their feeling in a rational way, or handle the 
problem with intelligence. Therefore, they do not know how to cry 
for help, and do not know how to associate with others to defend 
themselves against it. 

   When a silent weapon is applied gradually, the public 
adjusts/adapts to its presence and learns to tolerate its 
encroachment on their lives until the pressure (psychological via 
economic) becomes too great and they crack up. 

   Therefore, the silent weapon is a type of biological warfare. It 
attacks the vitality, options, and mobility of the individuals of a 
society by knowing, understanding, manipulating, and attacking their 
sources of natural and social energy, and their physical, mental, 
and emotional strengths and weaknesses. 

    [ table of contents ] 



   THEORETICAL INTRODUCTION

     Give me control over a nation's currency, and I care not who 
makes its laws.

Mayer Amschel Rothschild (1743 - 1812)

   Today's silent weapons technology is an outgrowth of a simple 
idea discovered, succinctly expressed, and effectively applied by 
the quoted Mr. Mayer Amschel Rothschild. Mr. Rothschild discovered 
the missing passive component of economic theory known as economic 
inductance. He, of course, did not think of his discovery in these 
20th-century terms, and, to be sure, mathematical analysis had to 
wait for the Second Industrial Revolution, the rise of the theory of 
mechanics and electronics, and finally, the invention of the 
electronic computer before it could be effectively applied in the 
control of the world economy. 

    [ table of contents ] 



   GENERAL ENERGY CONCEPTS

   In the study of energy systems, there always appears three 
elementary concepts. These are potential energy, kinetic energy, and 
energy dissipation. And corresponding to these concepts, there are 
three idealized, essentially pure physical counterparts called 
passive components. 

   (1) In the science of physical mechanics, the phenomenon of 
potential energy is associated with a physical property called   
elasticity or stiffness, and can be represented by a stretched 
spring.      In electronic science, potential energy is stored in a 
capacitor instead of a spring. This property is called capacitance 
instead   of elasticity or stiffness. 

   (2) In the science of physical mechanics, the phenomenon of 
kinetic energy is associated with a physical property called inertia   
or mass, and can be represented by a mass or a flywheel in motion.      
In electronic science, kinetic energy is stored in an inductor (in a 
magnetic field) instead of a mass. This property is called   
inductance instead of inertia. 

   (3)In the science of physical mechanics, the phenomenon of energy 
dissipation is associated with a physical property called   friction 
or resistance, and can be represented by a dashpot or other device 
which converts energy into heat.      In electronic science, 
dissipation of energy is performed by an element called either a 
resistor or a conductor, the term   "resistor" being the one 
generally used to describe a more ideal device (e.g., wire) employed 
to convey electronic energy   efficiently from one location to 
another. The property of a resistance or conductor is measured as 
either resistance or conductance   reciprocals. 

   In economics these three energy concepts are associated with:    
Economic Capacitance - Capital (money, stock/inventory, investments 
in buildings and durables, etc.)    Economic Conductance - Goods 
(production flow coefficients)    Economic Inductance - Services 
(the influence of the population of industry on output) 

   All of the mathematical theory developed in the study of one 
energy system (e.g., mechanics, electronics, etc.) can be 
immediately applied in the study of any other energy system (e.g., 
economics). 

    [ table of contents ] 



     MR. ROTHSCHILD'S ENERGY DISCOVERY

   What Mr. Rothschild had discovered was the basic principle of 
power, influence, and control over people as applied to economics. 
That principle is "when you assume the appearance of power, people 
soon give it to you." 

   Mr. Rothschild had discovered that currency or deposit loan 
accounts had the required appearance of power that could be used to 
induce people (inductance, with people corresponding to a magnetic 
field) into surrendering their real wealth in exchange for a promise 
of greater wealth (instead of real compensation). They would put up 
real collateral in exchange for a loan of promissory notes. Mr. 
Rothschild found that he could issue more notes than he had backing 
for, so long as he had someone's stock of gold as a persuader to 
show his customers. 

   Mr. Rothschild loaned his promissory notes to individual and to 
governments. These would create overconfidence. Then he would make 
money scarce, tighten control of the system, and collect the 
collateral through the obligation of contracts. The cycle was then 
repeated. These pressures could be used to ignite a war. Then he 
would control the availability of currency to determine who would 
win the war. That government which agreed to give him control of its 
economic system got his support. 

   Collection of debts was guaranteed by economic aid to the enemy 
of the debtor. The profit derived from this economic methodology mad 
Mr. Rothschild all the more able to expand his wealth. He found that 
the public greed would allow currency to be printed by government 
order beyond the limits (inflation) of backing in precious metal or 
the production of goods and services. 

    [ table of contents ] 



    APPARENT CAPITAL AS "PAPER" INDUCTOR

   In this structure, credit, presented as a pure element called 
"currency," has the appearance of capital, but is in effect negative 
capital. Hence, it has the appearance of service, but is in fact, 
indebtedness or debt. It is therefore an economic inductance instead 
of an economic capacitance, and if balanced in no other way, will be 
balanced by the negation of population (war, genocide). The total 
goods and services represent real capital called the gross national 
product, and currency may be printed up to this level and still 
represent economic capacitance; but currency printed beyond this 
level is subtractive, represents the introduction of economic 
inductance, and constitutes notes of indebtedness. 

   War is therefore the balancing of the system by killing the true 
creditors (the public which we have taught to exchange true value 
for inflated currency) and falling back on whatever is left of the 
resources of nature and regeneration of those resources. 

   Mr. Rothschild had discovered that currency gave him the power to 
rearrange the economic structure to his own advantage, to shift 
economic inductance to those economic positions which would 
encourage the greatest economic instability and oscillation. 

   The final key to economic control had to wait until there was 
sufficient data and high-speed computing equipment to keep close 
watch on the economic oscillations created by price shocking and 
excess paper energy credits - paper inductance/inflation. 

    [ table of contents ] 



   BREAKTHROUGH

   The aviation field provided the greatest evolution in economic 
engineering by way of the mathematical theory of shock testing. In 
this process, a projectile is fired from an airframe on the ground 
and the impulse of the recoil is monitored by vibration transducers 
connected to the airframe and wired to chart recorders. 

   By studying the echoes or reflections of the recoil impulse in 
the airframe, it is possible to discover critical vibrations in the 
structure of the airframe which either vibrations of the engine or 
aeolian vibrations of the wings, or a combination of the two, might 
reinforce resulting in a resonant self-destruction of the airframe 
in flight as an aircraft. From the standpoint of engineering, this 
means that the strengths and weaknesses of the structure of the 
airframe in terms of vibrational energy can be discovered and 
manipulated. 

    [ table of contents ] 



    APPLICATION IN ECONOMICS

   To use this method of airframe shock testing in economic 
engineering, the prices of commodities are shocked, and the public 
consumer reaction is monitored. The resulting echoes of the economic 
shock are interpreted theoretically by computers and the psycho-
economic structure of the economy is thus discovered. It is by this 
process that partial differential and difference matrices are 
discovered that define the family household and make possible its 
evaluation as an economic industry (dissipative consumer structure). 

   Then the response of the household to future shocks can be 
predicted and manipulated, and society becomes a well-regulated 
animal with its reins under the control of a sophisticated computer-
regulated social energy bookkeeping system. 

   Eventually every individual element of the structure comes under 
computer control through a knowledge of personal preferences, such 
knowledge guaranteed by computer association of consumer preferences 
(universal product code, UPC; zebra-striped pricing codes on 
packages) with identified consumers (identified via association with 
the use of a credit card and later a permanent "tattooed" body 
number invisible under normal ambient illumination). 

    [ table of contents ] 



THE ECONOMIC MODEL

   The Harvard Economic Research Project (1948-) was an extension of 
World War II Operations Research. Its purpose was to discover the 
science of controlling an economy: at first the American economy, 
and then the world economy. It was felt that with sufficient 
mathematical foundation and data, it would be nearly as easy to 
predict and control the trend of an economy as to predict and 
control the trajectory of a projectile. Such has proven to be the 
case. Moreover, the economy has been transformed into a guided 
missile on target. 

   The immediate aim of the Harvard project was to discover the 
economic structure, what forces change that structure, how the 
behavior of the structure can be predicted, and how it can be 
manipulated. What was needed was a well-organized knowledge of the 
mathematical structures and interrelationships of investment, 
production, distribution, and consumption. 

   To make a short story of it all, it was discovered that an 
economy obeyed the same laws as electricity and that all of the 
mathematical theory and practical and computer know-how developed 
for the electronic field could be directly applied in the study of 
economics. This discovery was not openly declared, and its more 
subtle implications were and are kept a closely guarded secret, for 
example that in an economic model, human life is measured in 
dollars, and that the electric spark generated when opening a switch 
connected to an active inductor is mathematically analogous to the 
initiation of war. 

   The greatest hurdle which theoretical economists faced was the 
accurate description of the household as an industry. This is a 
challenge because consumer purchases are a matter of choice which in 
turn is influenced by income, price, and other economic factors. 

   This hurdle was cleared in an indirect and statistically 
approximate way by an application of shock testing to determine the 
current characteristics, called current technical coefficients, of a 
household industry 

   Finally, because problems in theoretical electronics can be 
translated very easily into problems of theoretical electronics, and 
the solution translated back again, it follows that only a book of 
language translation and concept definition needed to be written for 
economics. The remainder could be gotten from standard works on 
mathematics and electronics. This makes the publication of books on 
advanced economics unnecessary, and greatly simplifies project 
security. 

    [ table of contents ] 



INDUSTRIAL DIAGRAMS

   An ideal industry is defined as a device which receives value 
from other industries in several forms and converts them into one 
specific product for sales and distribution to other industries. It 
has several inputs and one output. What the public normally thinks 
of as one industry is really an industrial complex, where several 
industries under one roof produce one or more products . . . 

    [ table of contents ] 



   THREE INDUSTRIAL CLASSES

   Industries fall into three categories or classes by type of 
output:    Class #1 - Capital (resources)    Class #2 - Goods 
(commodities or use - dissipative)    Class #3 - Services (action of 
population 

   Class #1 industries exist at three levels:   (1) Nature - sources 
of energy and raw materials.   (2) Government - printing of currency 
equal to the gross national product (GNP), and extension of currency 
in excess of GNP.   (3) Banking - loaning of money for interest, and 
extension (inflation/counterfeiting) of economic value through the 
deposit loan   accounts. 

   Class #2 industries exist as producers of tangible or consumer 
(dissipated) products. This sort of activity is usually recognized 
and   labeled by the public as "industry." 

   Class #3 industries are those which have service rather than a 
tangible product as their output. These industries are called (1)   
households, and (2) governments. Their output is human activity of a 
mechanical sort, and their basis is population. 

    [ table of contents ] 



   AGGREGATION

   The whole economic system can be represented by a three-industry 
model if one allows the names of the outputs to be (1) capital, (2) 
goods, and (3) services. The problem with this representation is 
that it would not show the influence, say, the textile industry on 
the ferrous metal industry. This is because both the textile 
industry and the ferrous metal industry would be contained within a 
single classification called the "goods industry" and by this 
process of combining or aggregating these two industries under one 
system block they would lose their economic individuality. 

    [ table of contents ] 



    THE E-MODEL

   A national economy consists of simultaneous flows of production, 
distribution, consumption, and investment. If all of these elements 
including labor and human functions are assigned a numerical value 
in like units of measure, say, 1939 dollars, then this flow can be 
further represented by a current flow in an electronic circuit, and 
its behavior can be predicted and manipulated with useful precision. 

   The three ideal passive energy components of electronics, the 
capacitor, the resistor, and the inductor correspond to the three 
ideal passive energy components of economics called the pure 
industries of capital, goods, and services, respectively. 

   Economic capacitance represents the storage of capital in one 
form or another. 

   Economic conductance represents the level of conductance of 
materials for the production of goods. 

   Economic inductance represents the inertia of economic value in 
motion. This is a population phenomenon known as services. 

    [ table of contents ] 



     ECONOMIC INDUCTANCE

   An electrical inductor (e.g., a coil or wire) has an electric 
current as its primary phenomenon and a magnetic field as its 
secondary phenomenon (inertia). Corresponding to this, an economic 
inductor has a flow of economic value as its primary phenomenon and 
a population field as its secondary field phenomenon of inertia. 
When the flow of economic value (e.g., money) diminishes, the human 
population field collapses in order to keep the economic value 
(money) flowing (extreme case - war). 

   This public inertia is a result of consumer buying habits, 
expected standard of living, etc., and is generally a phenomenon of 
self-preservation. 

    [ table of contents ] 



 INDUCTIVE FACTORS TO CONSIDER

(1) Population (2) Magnitude of the economic activities of the 
government (3) The method of financing these government activities 
(See Peter-Paul Principle - inflation of the currency.) 

    [ table of contents ] 



    TRANSLATION

  (a few examples will be given.)

   Charge - coulombs - dollars (1939).    Flow/Current - amperes 
(coulombs per second) - dollars of flow per year.    Motivating 
Force - volts - dollars (output) demand.    Conductance - amperes 
per volt - dollars of flow per year per dollar demand.    
Capacitance - coulombs per volt - dollars of production 
inventory/stock per dollar demand. 

    [ table of contents ] 



     TIME FLOW RELATIONSHIPS AND SELF-DESTRUCTIVE OSCILLATIONS

   An ideal industry may be symbolized electronically in various 
ways. The simplest way is to represent a demand by a voltage and a 
supply by a current. When this is done, the relationship between the 
two becomes what is called an admittance, which can result from 
three economic factors: (1)hindsight flow, (2) present flow, and (3) 
foresight flow. 

   Foresight flow is the result of that property of living entities 
to cause energy (food) to be stored for a period of low energy 
(e.g., a winter season). It consists of demands made upon an 
economic system for that period of low energy (winter season). 

   In a production industry it takes several forms, one of which is 
known as production stock or inventory. In electronic symbology this 
specific industry demand (a pure capital industry) is represented by 
capacitance and the stock or resource is represented by a stored 
charge. Satisfaction of an industry demand suffers a lag because of 
the loading effect of inventory priorities. 

   Present flow ideally involves no delays. It is, so to speak, 
input today for output today, a "hand to mouth" flow. In electronic 
symbology, this specific industry demand (a pure us industry) is 
represented by a conductance which is then a simple economic valve 
(a dissipative element). 

   Hindsight flow is known as habit or inertia. In electronics this 
phenomenon is the characteristic of an inductor (economic analog = a 
pure service industry) in which a current flow (economic analog = 
flow of money) creates a magnetic field (economic analog = active 
human population) which, if the current (money flow) begins to 
diminish, collapse (war) to maintain the current (flow of money - 
energy). 

   Other large alternatives to war as economic inductors or economic 
flywheels are an open-ended social welfare program, or an enormous 
(but fruitful) open-ended space program. 

   The problem with stabilizing the economic system is that there is 
too much demand on account of (1) too much greed and (2) too much 
population. 

   This creates excessive economic inductance which can only be 
balanced with economic capacitance (true resources or value - e.g., 
in goods or services). 

   The social welfare program is nothing more than an open-ended 
credit balance system which creates a false capital industry to give 
nonproductive people a roof over their heads and food in their 
stomachs. This can be useful, however, because the recipients become 
state property in return for the "gift," a standing army for the 
elite. For he who pays the piper picks the tune. 

   Those who get hooked on the economic drug, must go to the elite 
for a fix. In this, the method of introducing large amounts of 
stabilizing capacitance is by borrowing on the future "credit" of 
the world. This is a fourth law of motion - onset, and consists of 
performing an action and leaving the system before the reflected 
reaction returns to the point of action - a delayed reaction. 

   The means of surviving the reaction is by changing the system 
before the reaction can return. By this means, politicians become 
more popular in their own time and the public pays later. In fact, 
the measure of such a politician is the delay time. 

   The same thing is achieved by a government by printing money 
beyond the limit of the gross national product, and economic process 
called inflation. This puts a large quantity of money into the hands 
of the public and maintains a balance against their greed, creates a 
false self-confidence in them and, for awhile, stays the wolf from 
the door. 

   They must eventually resort to war to balance the account, 
because war ultimately is merely the act of destroying the creditor, 
and the politicians are the publicly hired hit men that justify the 
act to keep the responsibility and blood off the public conscience. 
(See section on consent factors and social-economic structuring.) 

   If the people really cared about their fellow man, they would 
control their appetites (greed, procreation, etc.) so that they 
would not have to operate on a credit or welfare social system which 
steals from the worker to satisfy the bum. 

   Since most of the general public will not exercise restraint, 
there are only two alternatives to reduce the economic inductance of 
the system. 

   (1) Let the populace bludgeon each other to death in war, which 
will only result in a total destruction of the living earth. 

   (2) Take control of the world by the use of economic "silent 
weapons" in a form of "quiet warfare" and reduce the economic 
inductance of the world to a safe level by a process of benevolent 
slavery and genocide. 

   The latter option has been taken as the obviously better option. 
At this point it should be crystal clear to the reader why absolute 
secrecy about the silent weapons is necessary. The general public 
refuses to improve its own mentality and its faith in its fellow 
man. It has become a herd of proliferating barbarians, and, so to 
speak, a blight upon the face of the earth. 

   They do not care enough about economic science to learn why they 
have not been able to avoid war despite religious morality, and 
their religious or self-gratifying refusal to deal with earthly 
problems renders the solution of the earthly problem unreachable to 
them. 

   It is left to those few who are truly willing to think and 
survive as the fittest to survive, to solve the problem for 
themselves as the few who really care. Otherwise, exposure of the 
silent weapon would destroy our only hope of preserving the seed of 
the future true humanity... 

    [ table of contents ] 



    THE HOUSEHOLD INDUSTRY

   The industries of finance (banking), manufacturing, and 
government, real counterparts of the pure industries of capital, 
goods, and services, are easily defined because they are generally 
logically structured. Because of this their processes can be 
described mathematically and their technical coefficients can be 
easily deduced. This, however, is not the case with the service 
industry known as the household industry.

    [ table of contents ] 



 HOUSEHOLD MODELS

   ...The problem which a theoretical economist faces is that the 
consumer preferences of any household is not easily predictable and 
the technical coefficients of any one household tend to be a 
nonlinear, very complex, and variable function of income, prices, 
etc. 

   Computer information derived from the use of the universal 
product code in conjuction with credit-card purchase as an 
individual household identifier could change this state of affairs, 
but the U.P.C. method is not yet available on a national or even a 
significant regional scale. To compensate for this data deficiency, 
an alternate indirect approach of analysis has been adopted known as 
economic shock testing. This method, widely used in the aircraft 
manufacturing industry, develops an aggregate statistical sort of 
data. 

   Applied to economics, this means that all of the households in 
one region or in the whole nation are studied as a group or class 
rather than individually, and the mass behavior rather than the 
individual behavior is used to discover useful estimates of the 
technical coefficients governing the economic structure of the 
hypothetical single-household industry... 

   One method of evaluating the technical coefficients of the 
household industry depends upon shocking the prices of a commodity 
and noting the changes in the sales of all of the commodities. 

    [ table of contents ] 



    ECONOMIC SHOCK TESTING

   In recent times, the application of Operations Research to the 
study of the public economy has been obvious for anyone who 
understands the principles of shock testing. 

   In the shock testing of an aircraft airframe, the recoil impulse 
of firing a gun mounted on that airframe causes shock waves in that 
structure which tell aviation engineers the conditions under which 
some parts of the airplane or the whole airplane or its wings will 
start to vibrate or flutter like a guitar string, a flute reed, or a 
tuning fork, and disintegrate or fall apart in flight. 

   Economic engineers achieve the same result in studying the 
behavior of the economy and the consumer public by carefully 
selecting a staple commodity such as beef, coffee, gasoline, or 
sugar, and then causing a sudden change or shock in its price or 
availability, thus kicking everybody's budget and buying habits out 
of shape. 

   They then observe the shock waves which result by monitoring the 
changes in advertising, prices, and sales of that and other 
commodities. 

   The objective of such studies is to acquire the know-how to set 
the public economy into a predictable state of motion or change, 
even a controlled self-destructive state of motion which will 
convince the public that certain "expert" people should take control 
of the money system and reestablish security (rather than liberty 
and justice) for all. When the subject citizens are rendered unable 
to control their financial affairs, they, of course, become totally 
enslaved, a source of cheap labor. 

   Not only the prices of commodities, but also the availability of 
labor can be used as the means of shock testing. Labor strikes 
deliver excellent tests shocks to an economy, especially in the 
critical service areas of trucking (transportation), communication, 
public utilities (energy, water, garbage collection), etc. 

   By shock testing, it is found that there is a direct relationship 
between the availability of money flowing in an economy and the real 
psychological outlook and response of masses of people dependent 
upon that availability. 

   For example, there is a measurable quantitative relationship 
between the price of gasoline and the probability that a person 
would experience a headache, feel a need to watch a violent movie, 
smoke a cigarette, or go to a tavern for a mug of beer. 

   It is most interesting that, by observing and measuring the 
economic models by which the public tries to run from their problems 
and escape from reality, and by applying the mathematical theory of 
Operations Research, it is possible to program computers to predict 
the most probable combination of created events (shocks) which will 
bring about a complete control and subjugation of the public through 
a subversion of the public economy (by shaking the plum tree)... 

    [ table of contents ] 



    INTRODUCTION TO ECONOMIC AMPLIFIERS

   Economic amplifiers are the active components of economic 
engineering. The basic characteristic of any amplifier (mechanical, 
electrical, or economic) is that it receives an input control signal 
and delivers energy from an independent energy source to a specified 
output terminal in a predictable relationship to that input control 
signal. 

   The simplest form of an economic amplifier is a device called 
advertising. 

   If a person is spoken to by a T.V. advertiser as if he were a 
twelve-year-old, then, due to suggestibility, he will, with a 
certain probability, respond or react to that suggestion with the 
uncritical response of a twelve-year-old and will reach into his 
economic reservoir and deliver its energy to but that product on 
impulse when he passes it in the store. 

   An economic amplifier may have several inputs and output. Its 
response might be instantaneous or delayed. Its circuit symbol might 
be a rotary switch if its options are exclusive, qualitative, "go" 
or "no-go", or it might have its parametric input/output 
relationships specified by a matrix with internal energy sources 
represented. 

   Whatever its form might be, its purpose is to govern the flow of 
energy from a source to an output sink in direct relationship to an 
input control signal. For this reason, it is called an active 
circuit element or component. 

   Economic Amplifiers fall into classes called strategies, and, in 
comparison with electronic amplifiers, the specific internal 
functions of an economic amplifier are called logistical instead of 
electrical. 

   Therefore, economic amplifiers not only deliver power gain but 
also, in effect, are used to cause changes in the economic 
circuitry. 

   In the design of an economic amplifier we must have some idea of 
at least five functions ,which are 

(1) the available input signals, (2) the desired output-control 
objectives, (3) the strategic objective, (4) the available economic 
power sources, (5) the logistical options. 

   The process of defining and evaluating these factors and 
incorporating the economic amplifier into an economic system has 
been popularly called game theory. 

   The design of an economic amplifier begins with a specification 
of the power level of the output, which can range from personal to 
national. The second condition is accuracy of response, i.e., how 
accurately the output action is a function of the input commands. 
High gain combined with strong feedback helps to deliver the 
required precision. 

   Most of the error will be in the input data signal. Personal 
input data tends to be specified, while national input data tends to 
be statistical.

    [ table of contents ] 



SHORT LIST OF INPUTS

Questions to be answered: (1) what (2) when (3) where (4) how (5) 
why (6) who 

General sources of information: (1) telephone taps (2) surveillance 
(3) analysis of garbage (4) behavior of children in school 

Standard of living by: (1) food (2) clothing (3) shelter (4) 
transportation 

Social contacts: (1) telephone - itemized record of calls (2) family 
- marriage certificates, birth certificates, etc. (3) friends, 
associates, etc. (4) memberships in organizations (5) political 
affiliation 

THE PERSONAL PAPER TRAIL

Personal buying habits, i.e., personal consumer preferences: (1) 
checking accounts (2) credit-card purchases (3) "tagged" credit-card 
purchases - the credit-card purchase of products bearing the U.P.C. 
(Universal Product Code) 

Assets: (1) checking accounts (2) savings accounts (3) real estate 
(4) business (5) automobiles, etc. (6) safety deposit at bank (7) 
stock market 

Liabilities: (1) creditors (2) enemies (see - legal) (3) loans (4) 
consumer credit 

Government sources (ploys)*: (1) Welfare (2) Social Security (3) 
U.S.D.A. surplus food (4) doles (5) grants (6) subsidies *Principle 
of this ploy - the citizen will almost always make the collection of 
information easy if he can operate on the "free sandwich principle" 
of "eat now, and pay later." 

Government sources (via intimidation): (1) Internal Revenue Service 
(2) OSHA (3) Census (4) etc. 

Other government sources - surveillance of U.S. mail. 

HABIT PATTERNS - PROGRAMMING

Strengths and weaknesses: (1) activities (sports, hobbies, etc.) (2) 
see "legal" (fear, anger, etc. - crime record) (3) hospital records 
(drug sensitivities, reaction to pain, etc.) (4) psychiatric records 
(fears, angers, disgusts, adaptability, reactions to stimuli, 
violence, suggestibility or hypnosis, pain, pleasure, love, and sex) 

Methods of coping - of adaptability - behavior: (1) consumption of 
alcohol (2) consumption of drugs (3) entertainment (4) religious 
factors influencing behavior (5) other methods of escaping from 
reality 

Payment modus operandi (MO) - pay on time, etc.: (1) payment of 
telephone bills (2) energy purchases (electrical, gas,...) (3) water 
purchases (4) repayment of loans (5) house payments (6) automobile 
payments (7) payments on credit cards 

Political sensitivity: (1) beliefs (2) contacts (3) position (4) 
strengths/weaknesses (5) projects/activities 

Legal inputs - behavioral control (Excuses for investigation, 
search, arrest, or employment of force to modify behavior): (1) 
court records (2) police records - NCIC (3) driving record (4) 
reports made to police (5) insurance information (6) anti-
establishment acquaintances 

NATIONAL INPUT INFORMATION

Business sources (via I.R.S., etc.): (1) prices of commodities (2) 
sales (3) investments in    (a) stocks/inventory    (b) production 
tools and machinery    (c) buildings and improvements    (d) the 
stock market 

Banks and credit bureaus: (1) credit information (2) payment 
information 

Miscellaneous sources: (1) polls and surveys (2) publications (3) 
telephone records (4) energy and utility purchases 

    [ table of contents ] 



SHORT LIST OF INPUTS

Outputs - create controlled situations - manipulation of the 
economy, hence society - control of compensation and income. 
Sequence: (1) allocates opportunities. (2) destroys opportunities. 
(3) controls the economic environment. (4) controls the availability 
of raw materials. (5) controls capital. (6) controls bank rates. (7) 
controls the inflation of the currency. (8) controls the possession 
of property. (9) controls industrial capacity. (10) controls 
manufacturing. (11) controls the availability of goods 
(commodities). (12) controls the prices of commodities. (13) 
controls services, the labor force, etc. (14) controls payments to 
government officials (15) controls the legal functions. (16) 
controls the personal data files - uncorrectable by the party 
slandered. (17) controls advertising. (18) controls media contact. 
(19) controls material available for T.V. viewing. (20) disengages 
attention from real issues. (21) engages emotions. (22) creates 
disorder, chaos, and insanity. (23) controls design of more probing 
tax forms. (24) controls surveillance. (25) controls the storage of 
information. (26) develops psychological analyses and profiles of 
individuals. (27) controls legal functions [repeat of 15] (28) 
controls sociological factors. (29) controls health options. (30) 
preys on weakness. (31) cripples strengths. (32) leaches wealth and 
substance. 

    [ table of contents ] 



TABLE OF STRATEGIES

 Do 
this................................................................
...........................................................To get 
this      Keep the public 
ignorant............................................................
...................Less public organization     Maintain access 
control....................................................Recquired 
reaction to output (prices, sales)      Create 
preoccupation.......................................................
.........................................Lower defenses      Attack 
the family 
unit................................................................
.Control of the education of the young     Give less cash and more 
credit and doles.....................................More self-
indulgence and more data      Attack the privacy of the 
church...............................................Destroy faith 
in this sort of government      Social 
conformity..........................................................
..................Computer programming simplicity     Minimize the 
tax protest.............................Maximum economic data, 
minimum enforcement problems      Stabilize the 
consent.............................................................
..............................Simplicity coefficients     Tighten 
control of variables....................................Simpler 
computer input data - greater predictability    Establish boundary 
conditions.......Problem simplicity / solutions of differential and 
difference equations      Proper 
timing..............................................................
...............................Less data shift and blurring      
Maximize 
control.............................................................
.....................Minimum resistance to control     Collapse of 
currency........................................Destroy the faith of 
the American people in each other. 

    [ table of contents ] 



DIVERSION, THE PRIMARY STRATEGY

   Experience has prevent that the simplest method of securing a 
silent weapon and gaining control of the public is to keep the 
public undisciplined and ignorant of the basic system principles on 
the one hand, while keeping them confused, disorganized, and 
distracted with matters of no real importance on the other hand. 

This is achieved by: 

   (1) disengaging their minds; sabotaging their mental activities; 
providing a low-quality program of public education in mathematics,   
logic, systems design and economics; and discouraging technical 
creativity. 

   (2) engaging their emotions, increasing their self-indulgence and 
their indulgence in emotional and physical activities, by: 

     (a) unrelenting emotional affrontations and attacks (mental and 
emotional rape) by way of constant barrage of sex,      violence, 
and wars in the media - especially the T.V. and the newspapers.      
(b) giving them what they desire - in excess - "junk food for 
thought" - and depriving them of what they really need. 

   (3) rewriting history and law and subjecting the public to the 
deviant creation, thus being able to shift their thinking from 
personal   needs to highly fabricated outside priorities. 

   These preclude their interest in and discovery of the silent 
weapons of social automation technology. 

   The general rule is that there is a profit in confusion; the more 
confusion, the more profit. Therefore, the best approach is to 
create problems and then offer solutions. 

    [ table of contents ] 



 DIVERSION SUMMARY

   Media: Keep the adult public attention diverted away from the 
real social issues, and captivated by matters of no real importance. 

   Schools: Keep the young public ignorant of real mathematics, real 
economics, real law, and real history. 

   Entertainment: Keep the public entertainment below a sixth-grade 
level. 

   Work: Keep the public busy, busy, busy, with no time to think; 
back on the farm with the other animals. 

    [ table of contents ] 



  CONSENT, THE PRIMARY VICTORY

   A silent weapon system operates upon data obtained from a docile 
public by legal (but not always lawful) force. Much information is 
made available to silent weapon systems programmers through the 
Internal Revenue Service. (See Studies in the Structure of the 
American Economy for an I.R.S. source list.) 

   This information consists of the enforced delivery of well-
organized data contained in federal and state tax forms, collected, 
assembled, and submitted by slave labor provided by taxpayers and 
employers. 

   Furthermore, the number of such forms submitted to the I.R.S. is 
a useful indicator of public consent, an important factor in 
strategic decision making. Other data sources are given in the Short 
List of Inputs. 

   Consent Coefficients - numerical feedback indicating victory 
status. Psychological basis: When the government is able to collect 
tax and seize private property without just compensation, it is an 
indication that the public is ripe for surrender and is consenting 
to enslavement and legal encroachment. A good and easily quantified 
indicator of harvest time is the number of public citizens who pay 
income tax despite an obvious lack of reciprocal or honest service 
from the government. 

    [ table of contents ] 



 AMPLIFICATION ENERGY SOURCES

   The next step in the process of designing an economic amplifier 
is discovering the energy sources. The energy sources which support 
any primitive economic system are, of course, a supply of raw 
materials, and the consent of the people to labor and consequently 
assume a certain rank, position, level, or class in the social 
structure, i.e., to provide labor at various levels in the pecking 
order. 

   Each class, in guaranteeing its own level of income, controls the 
class immediately below it, hence preserves the class structure. 
This provides stability and security, but also government from the 
top. 

   As time goes on and communication and education improve, the 
lower-class elements of the social labor structure become 
knowledgeable and envious of the good things that the upper-class 
members have. They also begin to attain a knowledge of energy 
systems and the ability to enforce their rise through the class 
structure. 

   This threatens the sovereignty of the elite. 

   If this rise of the lower classes can be postponed long enough, 
the elite can achieve energy dominance, and labor by consent no 
longer will hold a position of an essential energy source. 

   Until such energy dominance is absolutely established, the 
consent of people to labor and let others handle their affairs must 
be taken into consideration, since failure to do so could cause the 
people to interfere in the final transfer of energy sources to the 
control of the elite. 

   It is essential to recognize that at this time, public consent is 
still an essential key to the release of energy in the process of 
economic amplification. 

   Therefore, consent as an energy release mechanism will now be 
considered. 

    [ table of contents ] 



     LOGISTICS

   The successful application of a strategy requires a careful study 
of inputs, outputs, the strategy connecting the inputs and the 
outputs, and the available energy sources to fuel the strategy. This 
study is called logistics. 

   A logistical problem is studied at the elementary level first, 
and then levels of greater complexity are studied as a synthesis of 
elementary factors. 

   This means that a given system is analyzed, i.e., broken down 
into its subsystems, and these in turn are analyzed, until by this 
process, one arrives at the logistical "atom," the individual. 

    [ table of contents ] 



THE ARTIFICIAL WOMB

   From the time a person leaves its mother's womb, its every effort 
is directed towards building, maintaining, and withdrawing into 
artificial wombs, various sorts of substitute protective devices or 
shells. 

   The objective of these artificial wombs is to provide a stable 
environment for both stable and unstable activity; to provide a 
shelter for the evolutionary processes of growth and maturity - 
i.e., survival; to provide security for freedom and to provide 
defensive protection for offensive activity. 

   This is equally true of both the general public and the elite. 
However, there is a definite difference in the way each of these 
classes go about the solution of problems. 

    [ table of contents ] 



    THE POLITICAL STRUCTURE OF A NATION - DEPENDENCY

   The primary reason why the individual citizens of a country 
create a political structure is a subconscious wish or desire to 
perpetuate their own dependency relationship of childhood. Simply 
put, they want a human god to eliminate all risk from their life, 
pat them on the head, kiss their bruises, put a chicken on every 
dinner table, clothe their bodies, tuck them into bed at night, and 
tell them that everything will be alright when they wake up in the 
morning. 

   This public demand is incredible, so the human god, the 
politician, meets incredibility with incredibility by promising the 
world and delivering nothing. So who is the bigger liar? the public? 
or the "godfather"? 

   This public behavior is surrender born of fear, laziness, and 
expediency. It is the basis of the welfare state as a strategic 
weapon, useful against a disgusting public. 

    [ table of contents ] 



  ACTION/OFFENSE

   Most people want to be able to subdue and/or kill other human 
beings which disturb their daily lives, but they do not want to have 
to cope with the moral and religious issues which such an overt act 
on their part might raise. Therefore, they assign the dirty work to 
others (including their own children) so as to keep the blood off 
their hands. They rave about the humane treatment of animals and 
then sit down to a delicious hamburger from a whitewashed 
slaughterhouse down the street and out of sight. But even more 
hypocritical, they pay taxes to finance a professional association 
of hit men collectively called politicians, and then complain about 
corruption in government. 

    [ table of contents ] 



   RESPONSIBILITY

   Again, most people want to be free to do the things (to explore, 
etc.) but they are afraid to fail. 

   The fear of failure is manifested in irresponsibility, and 
especially in delegating those personal responsibilities to others 
where success is uncertain or carries possible or created 
liabilities (law) which the person is not prepared to accept. They 
want authority (root word - "author"), but they will not accept 
responsibility or liability. So they hire politicians to face 
reality for them. 

    [ table of contents ] 



     SUMMARY

   The people hire the politicians so that the people can:    (1) 
obtain security without managing it.    (2) obtain action without 
thinking about it.    (3) inflict theft, injury, and death upon 
others without having to contemplate either life or death.    (4) 
avoid responsibility for their own intentions.    (5) obtain the 
benefits of reality and science without exerting themselves in the 
discipline of facing or learning either of these things.

   They give the politicians the power to create and manage a war 
machine:    (1) provide for the survival of the nation/womb.    (2) 
prevent encroachment of anything upon the nation/womb.    (3) 
destroy the enemy who threatens the nation/womb.    (4) destroy 
those citizens of their own country who do not conform for the sake 
of stability of the nation/womb. 

   Politicians hold many quasi-military jobs, the lowest being the 
police which are soldiers, the attorneys and C.P.A.s next who are 
spies and saboteurs (licensed), and the judges who shout orders and 
run the closed union military shop for whatever the market will 
bear. The generals are industrialists. The "presidential" level of 
commander-in-chief is shared by the international bankers. The 
people know that they have created this farce and financed it with 
their own taxes (consent), but they would rather knuckle under than 
be the hypocrite. 

   Thus, a nation becomes divided into two very distinct parts, a 
docile sub-nation [great silent majority] and a political sub-
nation. The political sub-nation remains attached to the docile sub-
nation, tolerates it, and leaches its substance until it grows 
strong enough to detach itself and then devour its parent. 

    [ table of contents ] 



  SYSTEM ANALYSIS

   In order to make meaningful computerized economic decisions about 
war, the primary economic flywheel, it is necessary to assign 
concrete logistical values to each element of the war structure - 
personnel and material alike. 

   This process begins with a clear and candid description of the 
subsystems of such a structure. 

    [ table of contents ] 



     THE DRAFT

     (As military service)

   Few efforts of human behavior modification are more remarkable or 
more effective than that of the socio-military institution known as 
the draft. A primary purpose of a draft or other such institution is 
to instill, by intimidation, in the young males of a society the 
uncritical conviction that the government is omnipotent. He is soon 
taught that a prayer is slow to reverse what a bullet can do in an 
instant. Thus, a man trained in a religious environment for eighteen 
years of his life can, by this instrument of the government, be 
broken down, be purged of his fantasies and delusions in a matter of 
mere months. Once that conviction is instilled, all else becomes 
easy to instill. 

   Even more interesting is the process by which a young man's 
parents, who purportedly love him, can be induced to send him off to 
war to his death. Although the scope of this work will not allow 
this matter to be expanded in full detail, nevertheless, a coarse 
overview will be possible and can serve to reveal those factors 
which must be included in some numerical form in a computer analysis 
of social and war systems. 

   We begin with a tentative definition of the draft. The draft 
(selective service, etc.) is an institution of compulsory collective 
sacrifice and slavery, devised by the middle-aged and elderly for 
the purpose of pressing the young into doing the public dirty work. 
It further serves to make the youth as guilty as the elders, thus 
making criticism of the elders by the youth less likely 
(Generational Stabilizer). It is marketed and and sold to the public 
under the label of "patriotic = national" service. 

   Once a candid economic definition of the draft is achieved, that 
definition is used to outline the boundaries of a structure called a 
Human Value System, which in turn is translated into the terms of 
game theory. The value of such a slave laborer is given in a Table 
of Human Values, a table broken down into categories by intellect, 
experience, post-service job demand, etc. 

   Some of these categories are ordinary and can be tentatively 
evaluated in terms of the value of certain jobs for which a known 
fee exists. Some jobs are harder to value because they are unique to 
the demands of social subversion, for an extreme example: the value 
of a mother's instruction to her daughter, causing that daughter to 
put certain behavioral demands upon a future husband ten or fifteen 
years hence; thus, by suppressing his resistance to a perversion of 
a government, making it easier for a banking cartel to buy the State 
of New York in, say, twenty years. 

   Such a problem leans heavily upon the observations and data of 
wartime espionage and many types of psychological testing. But crude 
mathematical models (algorithms, etc.) can be devised, if not to 
predict, at least to predeterminate these events with maximum 
certainty. What does not exist by natural cooperation is thus 
enhanced by calculated compulsion. Human beings are machines, levers 
which may be grasped and turned, and there is little real difference 
between automating a society and automating a shoe factory. 

   These derived values are variable. (It is necessary to use a 
current Table of Human Values for computer analysis.) These values 
are given in true measure rather than U.S. dollars, since the latter 
is unstable, being presently inflated beyond the production of 
national goods and services so as to give the economy a false 
kinetic energy ("paper" inductance). 

   The silver value is stable, it being possible to buy the same 
amount with a gram of silver today as it could be bought in 1920. 
Human value measured in silver units changes slightly due to changes 
in production technology. 

    [ table of contents ] 



   ENFORCEMENT

FACTOR I

   As in every social system approach, stability is achieved only by 
understanding and accounting for human nature (action/reaction 
patterns). A failure to do so can be, and usually is, disastrous.    
As in other human social schemes, one form or another of 
intimidation (or incentive) is essential to the success of the 
draft. Physical principles of action and reaction must be applied to 
both internal and external subsystems.    To secure the draft, 
individual brainwashing/programming and both the family unit and the 
peer group must be engaged and brought under control. 

FACTOR II - FATHER

   The man of the household must be housebroken to ensure that 
junior will grow up with the right social training and attitudes. 
The advertising media, etc., are engaged to see to it that father-
to-be is pussy-whipped before or by the time he is married. He is 
taught that he either conforms to the social notch cut out for him 
or his sex life will be hobbled and his tender companionship will be 
zero. He is made to see that women demand security more than 
logical, principled, or honorable behavior.    By the time his son 
must go to war, father (with jelly for a backbone) will slam a gun 
into junior's hand before father will risk the censure of his peers, 
or make a hypocrite of himself by crossing the investment he has in 
his own personal opinion or self-esteem. Junior will go to war or 
father will be embarrassed. So junior will go to war, the true 
purpose not withstanding. 

FACTOR III - MOTHER

   The female element of human society is ruled by emotion first and 
logic second. In the battle between logic and imagination, 
imagination always wins, fantasy prevails, maternal instinct 
dominates so that the child comes first and the future comes second. 
A woman with a newborn baby is too starry-eyed to see a wealthy 
man's cannon fodder or a cheap source of slave labor. A woman must, 
however, be conditioned to accept the transition to "reality" when 
it comes, or sooner.    As the transition becomes more difficult to 
manage, the family unit must be carefully disintegrated, and state-
controlled public education and state-operated child-care centers 
must be become more common and legally enforced so as to begin the 
detachment of the child from the mother and father at an earlier 
age. Inoculation of behavioral drugs [Ritalin] can speed the 
transition for the child (mandatory). Caution: A woman's impulsive 
anger can override her fear. An irate woman's power must never be 
underestimated, and her power over a pussy-whipped husband must 
likewise never be underestimated. It got women the vote in 1920. 

FACTOR IV - JUNIOR

   The emotional pressure for self-preservation during the time of 
war and the self-serving attitude of the common herd that have an 
option to avoid the battlefield - if junior can be persuaded to go - 
is all of the pressure finally necessary to propel Johnny off to 
war. Their quiet blackmailings of him are the threats: "No 
sacrifice, no friends; no glory, no girlfriends." 

FACTOR V - SISTER

   And what about junior's sister? She is given all the good things 
of life by her father, and taught to expect the same from her future 
husband regardless of the price. 

FACTOR VI - CATTLE

   Those who will not use their brains are no better off than those 
who have no brains, and so this mindless school of jelly-fish, 
father, mother, son, and daughter, become useful beasts of burden or 
trainers of the same.     [ table of contents ] 

 

