CONCENTRATION CAMP PLANS FOR U.S. CITIZENS

Transcript of taped message concerning the implementation of a 
dictatorial government in the United States.

A NATIONAL EMERGENCY: TOTAL TAKEOVER

This is William R. Pabst. My address is 1434 West Alabama Street, 
Houston, Texas 77006. My telephone number is: (713) 521-9896. This 
is my 1979 updated report on the concentration camp program of the 
Dept. of Defense of the United States.

On April 20, 1976, after a rapid and thorough investigation, I filed suit 
on behalf of the People of the United States against various personages 
that had a key part in a conspiratorial program to do away with the 
United States as we know it. This is a progress report to you, the 
plaintiffs, you the People of the United States. The civil action number 
is 76-H-667. It is entitled, "Complaint Against the Concentration Camp 
Program of the Dept. of Defense." It was filed in the U.S. District Court 
for the southern district of Texas, Houston division. The judge 
responsible for the case was Judge Carl Beau (phonetic spelling).

You have no doubt heard the story: Once upon a time, under the Nazi 
regime in Germany, a man worked on an assembly line in a baby 
carriage factory. His wife was going to have a baby, but the Nazi 
government would not let anybody buy a baby carriage. The man 
decided he would secretly collect one part from each department and 
assemble the carriage himself. When this was done he and his wife 
gathered up the pieces and assembled it. When they were finished they 
did not have a baby carriage, they had a machine gun.

And that is exactly the situation that I am going to present to you at this 
time. The center for the Study for Democratic Institutions recently 
completed a proposed constitution for the "Newstates of America." The 
Center is Rockefeller funded. To give you an indication of the type of 
constitution proposed, the term "national emergency" is mentioned 134 
times. The document did not have a Bill of Rights and the right to own 
arms was taken away. At the same time, House Concurrent Resolution 
#28 awaited for calling a constitutional convention on or before July 4, 
1976. The presiding officer of such an event would have been Nelson 
Rockefeller, Vice President and president pro tem of the Senate. This 
particular resolution awaited in committee. Obviously, money would 
not be spent on these massive programs unless there would be the 
chance for the actual implementation of such a scheme.

However, in case the American people do not voluntarily adopt a new 
constitution less troublesome to those who desire dictatorship, there is 
Executive Order #11490, which will include its predecessors when it is 
cited herein. The Executive Order authorizes the secretaries of the 
various agencies to prepare for any "national emergency" type 
situation--including, but not limited to, those specified in the 
Executive Order itself. If you read the Order, there is nothing at all left 
to the imagination. For any conceivable pretext, a national emergency 
may be declared based upon this frightening decree, dated October 
1969. The Order itself was prefaced in March of 1969 by another 
Executive Order that established the federal regions and their capitals. 
All the departments of the government were involved, including the 
L.E.A.A. (Law Enforcement Assistance Administration) and H.E.W. 
(Health, Education, and Welfare). Congressman Larry McDonald has 
revealed to Congress that various guerrilla and terrorist groups were 
being financed by the federal government. If they (the terrorist groups) 
actually began in search of activities, Executive Order #11490 would 
be activated. But as mentioned previously, if you will read Executive 
Order #11490, you will see that a "national emergency" may be 
declared for any conceivable pretext whatsoever. If the Order itself 
were activated, here is what would happen. The next day you and your 
family would be standing in front of your local post office with your 
neighbors the front doors bursting with block-long lines of people 
waiting to be registered. After waiting in line with your family for 
hours, you finally get channeled through the doors. Once inside, you 
overhear the postal clerk with his sidearm on telling a frightened 
registrant, "Look there is nothing I can do. The truck behind the 
building will take you to a work camp where you have been assigned. 
Your wife has been assigned to a factory and there's nothing I can do." 
Then your son or daughter looks up at you with a quivering voice and 
asks, "Dad, why are we here?"


IMPLEMENTING THE NEW GOVERNMENT

Well, you see there's much more to life in a "free country" than paying 
your mortgage. You have to be aware of what is going on and act 
accordingly and participate in government, that is, get involved. 
Examine the organization chart on Executive Order #11490 to discover 
how we have all helped finance (through our tax dollars) the mechanics 
of the overthrow of our Constitution. Executive Order #11490 
designates certain authorities to the Office of Preparedness--which in 
turn designates authority to the various departments of the federal 
government.

If the Order were implemented, the Post Office department would be 
responsible for a national registration. The State Department would be 
responsible for the protection of the United Nations personnel or 
property and prevention of escape from the United States. The 
Department of Defense would be responsible for its expropriation of 
industry; direction of service and national production system, control of 
censorship; and communication expropriation of non-industrial 
facilities. The Commerce Department would be responsible for 
expropriation, selection and international distribution of commodities 
(which would be the actual looting of the United States), census 
information and human resources

The Treasury Department would be responsible for collection of cash 
and non-cash items and the recreation of evidence of assets and 
liabilities. The Justice Department would have concurrent responsibility 
with the Dept. of State for prevention of escape from the U.S.; for 
replenishing the stockpile of narcotics; for a national police force; for 
correctional and penal institutions; for mass feeding and housing of 
prisoners and for use of prisoners to augment manpower--which would 
be slave labor.

The Federal Bulk (which is not a FEDERAL bank) would be 
responsible for regulation of withdrawal of currency. The G.S.A. 
(General Services Administration) would be responsible for confiscation 
of private property for government use. H.E.W. would be responsible 
for nationalization of education (which the Dept. of Education has 
already done), health services, hospital and mental institutions. The 
Labor Dept. would be responsible for recruiting manpower, referring 
manpower, and allocating manpower so each particular person that was 
registered at the post office in this national registration would be told 
where he (or she) was going to work. H.U.D. (Housing & Urban 
Development) would be responsible for emergency enforcement and 
control and movement of passengers and the emergency operation of the 
Alaskan railroad.

There are two specific agencies here that we need to look at and to keep 
in mind. They are: H.E.W. and the Justice Dept., as those two agencies 
are related to the Dept. of Defense. The various military departments are 
part of the Dept. of Defense. Under it, we have the Secretary of Army, 
Chief of Staff, Deputy Chief of Staff of Personnel and law enforcement, 
U.S. Army's forces command, and continental Army Reserve & 
National Guard. And under that we have the four armies dividing up the 
United States. Under the Fifth Army we have the provost marshal, who 
is directly connected to the Deputy Chief of Staff for law enforcement 
personnel. Under the provost Marshall for the Fifth Army we have the 
300 Military Police Prisoner-of War (POW) Command at Lebonia, Michigan.

At this point I quote from retired Admiral Elmo Zumoff's (phonetic 
spelling) book, "On Watch": Kissinger states, 'I believe the American 
people lack the will to do the things necessary to achieve parity and to 
maintain maritime superiority.  I believe we must get the best deal we 
can in our negotiations before the United States and the Soviets both 
perceive these changes and the balance that occurs. When these 
perceptions are in agreement, and both sides know the U.S. is inferior, 
we must have gotten the best deal we can. Americans at that time will 
not be happy that I have settled for second, but it will be too late. "

Zumoff said, 'Then why not take it to the American people? They will 
not accept the decision to become second best while we are in a position 
of Gross National Product twice that of the U.S.S.R."

Kissinger responds, "That's a question of judgment. I judge that we will 
not get their support, and if we seek it and tell the fact as we would have 
to, we would lose our negotiating leverage with the Soviets."

Zumoff stated, "But isn't that the ultimate immorality in a democracy; to 
make a decision for the people of such importance without consulting 
them?"

Kissinger stated, "Perhaps, but I doubt that there are one million who 
could even understand the issue.

Zumoff responded, "Even if that presumption is correct, those one 
million can influence the opinions of the majority of the people. I 
believe it is my duty to take the other course."

Kissinger responded, "You should take care, lest your words result in a 
reduction in the Navy budget."

So we see what the intention of the State Dept. is regarding the people. 
Another fact: On December 30, 1974, the California National Guard 
announced in a press release (which I have) that the state's Military 
Police battalions were organized and trained to provide immediate 
response to virtually every civil and man-made disaster, as well as to 
assist law enforcement officers in emergency situations to carry out their 
law enforcement as well as their military mission. When I asked four of 
the defendants in this case for their mission statement they did not 
provide it_although they say it is public information.

The training spoken of for the California National Guard covers such 
subjects as dealing with individual civilians/civil population, detention 
procedures, citizen's rights, and similar matters. You know as well as I 
do that when there is Martial Law, or Martial Rule, citizens have no 
rights-because the Constitution is pre-empted. Even the uniforms of the 
National Guards who participate in this program are different from the 
regular uniforms. Army spokesmen will not reveal more about the 
uniforms. But the Los Angeles Sheriff's Dept. Paramilitary units, who 
have received this training also, have army fatigues dyed black for their 
uniforms.

A further fact is the disaster preparedness plan for the Marine Corps 
Supply Center in Barstow, CA. Quoting from that document: 'Under the 
Constitution and the laws of the United States, the preservation of law 
and order is the responsibility of local and state government. The 
authority to maintain the peace and enforce the law is invested in the 
authorities of those governments.' There are specific exceptions to the 
above concept. One of these pertains to federal intervention to the civil 
disturbances in certain situations.  Military commanders are deemed to 
have the inherent authority to take any measure reasonably necessary for 
the protection of life and property in the event of a sudden unexpected 
public calamity which disrupts the normal process of government and 
presents an emergency so eminent as to make it dangerous to await the 
instructions from appropriate authorities. This includes law enforcement 
duties. The manual mentions something called "Garden plot Forces," 
which will discuss at length in a few minutes.

Don Bell (who writes a weekly report) reported on July 25, 1975 that in 
May of '75 the 303 Civil Affairs group of the U.S. Army Reserves in 
Kearny, NJ conducted an exercise to sharpen plans for a military 
takeover of the state government in NJ. According to Colonel Frances 
Clark, they had conducted similar studies on how to seize municipal 
and county government over the past few years. But this was the first 
time they had studies STATE government. Such units were trained 
during World War II to operate captured governments in the foreign. 
We never had federal troops training to take over government in the 
United States. When local violence of catastrophe struck, the National 
Guard--under command of the governor--went into action. This is 
definitely not the situation at this time...

CONTROLLING THE MASSES

On February 16, 1975, in 'San Gabriel Valley Tribune' it was reported 
that the L.E.A.A. (funded by the Dept. of Justice) and the Police 
Foundation (funded by the Ford Foundation) were prime movers toward 
implementing a national police force. Each, however, contends they 
support local police agencies. The total program involves military units 
that have the function of taking ova the administration of local and state 
governments. That program is "Operation Cable Splicer"_by Army 
civil affairs groups, a sub-plan of "Operation Garden Plot" (the Martial 
Law program).

The method by which the national police concept is being presented to 
the public has changed. It was first disguised under the cover of 
protection against civil disturbances. This program was as follows:

A) Keep the people from gathering in the streets.
B) Isolate and neutralize the revolution's leadership.
C) Dispersal of crowds and demonstrators.

This is followed by successful prosecution in order to: I) Validate the 
action of the police; 2) Denying the arrestees propaganda materials, and, 
3) Denying them the opportunity to recover money damages against the 
police for arresting them.

Let me quote for you the scenario which was developed for Cable 
Splicer One, Two, and Three to justify the needs for dealing with civil 
disturbances "Phase One - an arrest and shooting provoke crowd unrest 
and threats against public officials and a riot begins to form: Phase Two 
- police vehicles are ambushed, various attempted assassinations of 
public officials occur, destruction and raiding of armories occur, and 
thousands of people begin to gather and local police lose control, Phase 
Three increased movements of rioters and the crowds must be dispersed 
before they become sympathetic with the rioters. The National Guard 
and the local police lose control."

This scenario provides for an orderly transition from state to federal 
control. The Deputy Attorney General of California commented at a 
Cable Splicer Three conference, that anyone who attacks the State--even 
verbally becomes a revolutionary and an enemy by definition.  They are 
the enemy and must be destroyed.  This program was taught in almost 
every state west of the Mississippi River and included as participants 
local active military, reserve military and civilian police.  The course 
name was "Civil Emergency Management Course."  The official 
explanation that was to be given if any questions were asked about the 
program was: "This activity is a continuous, joint law enforcement 
military liaison effort and a continuation of coordination established last 
year."

In 1976, the 'Oakland Tribune' carried the most complete explanation of 
what is planned. It is reported in its entirety in the 'National Chronicle' 
which added an analysis to the story. (The 'Oakland Tribune's editor 
died suddenly after the story was published). And I quote:

"Last Saturday the California National Guard unveiled a new Law 
Enforcement Assistance Force- L.E.A.F., a specially trained and 
outfitted Military Police Unit, whose members will serve as shock 
troops in the state's war against political protesters and demonstrators.

"I saw a full-dress exhibition of what the California National Guard 
has planned for the next American revolution. Helicopters, SWAT 
teams, civilian military policemen in jackboots and helmets, twelve-
gauge shotguns, .38 and .45 caliber pistols, radios, walkie-talkies, and 
electrically controlled intelligence centers wired for instant 
communications with any police force in one state.

"L.E.A.F. is a 1,000 member unit put together this year to handle unique 
law enforcement problems such a mass civil disobedience, protest 
demonstrations and riots.  In other words, breaking heads and taking 
names.  L.E.A.F. has the support of Governor Brown, a quarter million 
dollars worth of grants from the federal government, and no public 
opposition from civil liberties' groups.

"For all its ineptitude however, L.E.A.F. has a frightening possibility 
from a civil liberty standpoint.  It is a direct product of the California 
"Cable Splicer" conferences--a series of high-level secret meetings 
between government officials, law enforcement officials and military 
planners held during the late '60s and early '70s.  The meetings were 
held as late as 1975 so far, as many public records show.  These were 
the conferences which Counter-Spy magazine had identified as 
California's "Garden Plot Sub-plan."

'Gary Davis, Governor Brown's right hand man, says L.E.A.F. is to 
assist civil police, not to replace them. Gary says, "Civilians could 
expect a civilian type law enforcement rather than what is commonly 
known as Martial Law."  Despite this assurance, L.E.A.F.'s exercises 
look disturbingly like the military coup described in the novel, "Seven 
Days In May. "

'L.E.A.F. soldiers with nightsticks stood at intersections, stopping cars 
with suspicious occupants, checking I.D. cards and generally 
intimidating onlookers with their SWAT style uniforms, their sidearms 
and helmets.  Perhaps more ominously, several participants in the role-
playing exercises Saturday admitted that even under simulated pressure 
there has already been a number of incidents where the L.E.A.F. troops 
used excessive force to quell disturbances - even though their orders 
forbade it.' (That ends the quotation.)

Former L.E.A.A. Administrator, Charles Ross Dovan (phonetic 
spelling), is on record as having stated that local law enforcement has 
failed and must be replaced by a national police force.  Patrick Murphy, 
the administrator of the Police Foundation, states, "I have no fear of a 
national police force.  Our 40,000 police departments are not sacred."  
Ex-Attorney General William Saxby warned that if we can go on as we 
are, crime will invade us and the national police will take over.

For the policemen who do not cooperate and still want to be policemen, 
there is the program of Contemporary Research, Inc.--an organization of 
psychologists, sociologists, education specialists and economic experts--
who work toward a solution of many of today's social problems.  The 
same organization develops specialized computer base systems for law 
enforcement agencies at all levels of government.

The L.E.A.A. alone will receive over a billion dollars a year over the 
next four years_even though it has been ineffective against crime.  This 
is because the L.E.A.A. is not geared to fighting crime, it is geared to 
developing a system for takeover of the United States with the 
assistance of the Dept. of Defense.

THE PLANNED POLICE STATE

One of the programs the L.E.A.A. works on in its fight against crime is 
psycho-surgery.  If you don't cooperate with their programs, you are 
merely operated on so that you will be as cooperative as an adding 
machine.  Or, the L.E.A.A. supports drug research for the same purpose-
-to neurological source's violence.  Hence, as an example, if a law were 
passed whereby the ownership of firearms was declared to be illegal, 
you would be placed in one of these programs if you did not cooperate.  
The L.E.A.A. control exercise (at the state's level) is from the Office of 
Criminal Justice Planning of the Governor's office.  Here in Texas, Mr. 
Robert C. Klowers is still the executive director in that office.  But all 
states have that particular department.

In May 1975 the 'L.E.A.A. Newsletter' describes the function of one of 
its organizations: the National Institute of Law Enforcement & Criminal 
Justice.  This organization funds something called the 'United Nations 
Clearinghouse" in Rome, Italy.  The function of that organization is, 
among other things, the exchange of Criminal Justice System 
information with the Soviet Union.  It goes without saying that we have 
nothing to learn from the Criminal Justice System of the Soviet Union.  
These incredible projects are being funded with our tax dollars.

The code names for these projects are: "Garden Plot" and "Cable 
Splicer. " Garden Plot is the program to control the population.  Cable 
Splicer is the program for an orderly takeover of the state and local 
governments by the federal government.

An investigation was completed in Nov., 1975 by four sources: The 
Conservative publication, 'American Challenge' the leftist 'New Times'; 
the foundation financed Fund for Investigative Journalism, and, Don 
Wood of the trustworthy 'Ozark Sunbeam. ' It involves the potential 
creation of a Police State through the use of the Pentagon and its 
computerized intelligence dossier (lodged in the Pentagon basement) of 
thousands of citizens by the National Guard, state and local police 
departments, the L.E.A.A., plainclothes military forces, SWAT teams, 
and the Dept. of Justice.

Brigadier General J. L. Julienit (phonetic spelling), senior Army officer 
of the Pentagon National Guard Bureau, has admitted, "I know of no 
state that did not have some form of these exercises within the last 
year."

Today the Cable Splicer handbook is composed of six loose-leaf, three-
ring binders that are merely an outline for the impending takeover and 
destruction of our Constitution.  The Sixth Army used the term "Cable 
Splicer" for the name of the operation, but it has not revealed the name 
of the operation in the other military areas within the U. S.

On page 4, paragraph 10 on Public Information, the instructions state: 
"As a means to prevent adverse publicity or misleading psychological 
effects in regard to coordinating, planning, and conducting this exercise, 
all military participants involved will perform such duties in civilian 
clothing when exercise oriented activities are conducted at law 
enforcement facilities.  In the event inquiries are received regarding this 
exercise, the response should be limited to identifying the activity as a 
continuous, joint law enforcement military liaison effort and a 
continuation of coordination established last year."
On page 6, security guidance is explained to the effect that if anybody 
asks any questions, limit the information that is given out on the basis 
of it being in the interest of 'national interest' (security).

Now, in the festivities celebrating the success of completion of the 
exercises, Attorney General Stanly R. Larsen, the commanding general 
of the Sixth Army stated, "The most serious challenge facing all of us 
will be the challenge of discharging our legitimate responsibilities.  For 
a significant portion of a society at large is likely to regard us with 
suspicion and to question, even challenge, our authority on the basic 
assumption of our profession.  Part of this challenge we must be 
prepared to deal with; a potentially dangerous portion of our society 
which in truth, could well become the domestic enemy.

The manual includes instructions on operation of confinement facilities, 
handling and processing prisoners_including searching, transporting, 
feeding, housing and handling of the special class of persons called 
"detainees." The plan also specifically includes a proposition for 
confiscation of privately owned weapons and ammunition.

FILES ON POTENTIAL PRISONERS

The Army has over 350 separate record centers containing substantial 
information on civilian political activities. Virtually every major Army 
unit has its own set aside from this.  The Fifth Army of San Antonio has 
over 100,000 files of its own.  The overall operation command post is a 
domestic room at the Pentagon.  There are 25 million cards on 
individuals and 760,000 on organizations held by the Defense Central 
Index of investigations alone.  This information includes political, 
sociological, economical and psychological profiles. All this type of 
information on 25 million Americans.

Since 1970 local county and state police forces all over the country have 
undertaken crash programs to install various kinds of computerized 
information systems.  A large portion of this is being paid for my the 
L.E.A.A.  Beginning in 1970, Congress and the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
ordered the destruction of all these data banks, but they were not 
destroyed.  All the outlawed collection is now located at Mt. Weather, 
Clark County, West Virginia and similar Pentagon facilities designed as 
adjuncts to the president's emergency powers under the Executive 
Orders.

The cadre of specialized persons to enforce this plan are found in the U. 
S. Army Reserves Military Police POW Command at Lebonia, 
Michigan.  Mr. Fenren (phonetic spelling) of the 300th Military Police 
POW Command at Lebonia told me, when I called him from the Federal 
Information Center at Houston, that the camps in the Command were 
for foreign prisoners-of-war and for "enemies of the United States."  I 
asked him if enemies of the United States included U.S. citizens.  He 
became an_, wouldn't deny it, and referred me to a very sinister 
individual at the Army Reserve facility here at Houston whom I talked 
to; who explained to me that the prisoners were called "inventory" and 
"internees." He would not deny that the camps were for U.S. citizens.

I called the Pentagon, spoke with the defendant there, and then with the 
provost Marshal for the Fifth Army, and do you know what?  Not one of 
these persons would deny that the system was for U.S. citizens.  The 
provost marshal for the Fifth Army--when I mentioned the names of all 
the camp sites--said, "Well at least you've got that right."

The names of the detention facilities that I gave him were a list that I 
had acquired from the 'Ozark Sunbeam.'  That list of names was the 
same list of facilities designated under the old Detention Act of 1950 as 
"emergency detention centers." But there is only one problem: That act 
was supposed to have been repealed in 1971. After some research, I 
found out what the problem was. One Congressman-when the hearings 
were held for the repeal of the Emergency Detention Act--mentioned 
that there are 17 other bits of law that provided for the same thing. So it 
didn't matter whether they ever repealed the Emergency Detention Act. 
The public was in fact tricked by the Congress of the United States!

Here are the designated sites: Tucked away in the Appalachian 
Mountains of central Pennsylvania is a bustling town of approximate 
10,000 people. Fifteen to twenty years ago it was a sleepy village of 
400. Allanwood, PA is linked to New York City by Interstate U.S. 80. It 
takes up approximately 400 acres and is surrounded by a 10-foot barbed 
wire fence. It now holds approximately 300 minimum security prisoners 
to keep in shape. It could hold 12,000 people from one day to the next.

Thirty miles from Oklahoma City on U.S. 66 is El Reno, OK with an 
approximate population of 12,000. Due west, six miles from town 
almost in sight of U.S. 66 is a complex of buildings that could pass for a 
small school. However, the facility is overshadowed by a guard house 
that appears to be something like an airport control tower--except that 
it's manned by a vigilant, uniformed guard. This is a federal prison camp 
or detention center. These camps are all located near super-highways or 
near railroad tracks or both.

The federal prison camp at Florence, Arizona could hold 3,500 
prisoners. It is presently kept in condition by approximately 400 legally 
convicted prisoners. Wickenberg, AZ is famous for its municipal 
airport that was once government owned. It is now occupied by a 
private party. It is rumored to be capable of being taken back by the 
federal government without notice.

Now there are a couple other of these facilities that are probably existing 
under the same arrangements. This particular rumor of instant taking 
back without notice has existed for about 9 or 10 years. The only way it 
can actually be established is by looking at the local contract for the 
Wickenberg Municipal Airport itself and the parties that have 
possession of it.

As I mentioned previously, these names were ratified by the provost 
marshal of the Fifth Army who is in charge of the 300th Military Police 
POW Command. He is the one who verified them. He said, as I 
mentioned before, "Well at least you've got that right."

Some of the locations are: Tool Lake in California--now in private 
hands. It can be retaken without notice. Some of the others: We have 
Mill Point, West Virginia. I couldn't find a thing on Mill Point, WV 
but in that area we have all kinds of prisons. Among them are: 
Alderson, WV, a women's federal reformatory, Lewisburg, WV, a 
federal prison; Greenville, SC in Greenville County is now occupied 
by the State Youthful Offenders Division. Even that is a mystery to the 
people of that area.

At Montgomery, AL we have a federal civilian prison camp at Maxwell 
Air Force Base. Now does that sound right? There's one at Tucson, 
AZ, David Munson Air Base. In Alaska we have Elmendorf at 
Eielson Air Force Base.

That brings us to a facility in Florida, called Avon Park, FL. He found 
the Avon Park Bombing and Gunnery Range, which is also listed as the 
Avon Park Correctional Institute. No one is permitted entrance and 
probably there is no overfly permitted because it is a bombing and 
gunnery range. This was one of the places ratified by the provost 
marshal of the Fifth Army.

In 1976, as well as on March 20, 1979,1 went to the sheriffs Dept. in 
Houston to see if our local sheriff's Dept. had been infiltrated by these 
plans. Well, it appears so. I was put in contact with a Lt. Kiljan 
(phonetic spelling) who is in charge of some secret unit in the 
department. I asked him if he had participated in military training with 
military personnel here in the Sheriff s Dept. He denied it, and when I 
asked him if he would testify so under oath he became angry and stated, 
"You are just an ordinary citizen. I don't have to tell you anything." I 
later discovered that Lt. Kiljan is the ex-director of the Houston branch 
office of the U. S . Secret Service. Now where does his money come 
from? The area is administered by the Houston-Galveston Area Council.

In this regional-government plan, each federal region is divided into 
state clearinghouses, and each state clearinghouse is divided into area 
clearinghouses. And for our area we have the Houston-Galveston Area 
Council.. It serves as a conduit for federal funds in two major areas 
L.E.A.A. and H.E.W

Most everybody thinks this organization (the Houston-Galveston area 
Council) is for the development of the area--the geographical area here 
in Houston.  But it is not.  It is for the development of L.E.A.A. and 
H.E.W. projects.  Now this finds its counterpart in every community 
across the U.S. It provides for these agencies a liaison for inter-
governmental communications, interaction and coordination.

MENTAL COOPERATION IN TAKEOVER PLANS

I examined their projects to see what they were doing. This region-
government program distributes federal funds for two major purposes: 
1) Radio hook-ups between every police agency in the state to Fort Sam 
Houston, and: 2) Mental health programs, including programs for the 
mentally ill having priority of beds and hospitals.

Another interesting fact to consider is that in the Pine Bluff Arkansas 
Arsenal '3-Z" is stored. It's a nerve gas which creates sleepiness, 
dizziness, stupor, and the incapacity to move about. According to the 
Associated Press, the agent can be sprayed by aerosol, injected or 
sprayed over large areas by a bomb. The Military has admitted that one 
potential use of the gas is for civilian control. So whatever they planned, 
they've also planned a way for you to go to your destination in a tranquil 
state of mind.

H.E.W., by law, is operated in conjunction with the United Nations 
through the World Health Organization. Back in 1948, the 
International Congress on Mental health U.N. organization-declared in 
its pamphlet, 'Mental Health and World Citizenship, ' that, "prejudice, 
hostility or excessive nationalism may become deeply imbedded in the 
developing personality without awareness on the part of the individual 
concerned. In order to be effective, efforts of changing individuals 
must be appropriate to the successive stages of the unfolding 
personality. In the case of almost any group of individuals, change will 
be strongly resisted unless an attitude of acceptance has first been 
engendered.

"Principles of mental health cannot be successfully furthered in any 
society unless there is progressive acceptance of the concept of world 
citizenship," the document states.  "Programs for social change to be 
effective require a joint effort of psychiatrists and social scientists, 
working together in cooperation with statesmen, administrators and 
others in positions of responsibility."

The three phases of the development are: 1) Mental hospitals for 
segregation, care and protection of persons of unsound minds. 2) 
Community Mental Health Care Centers so that persons may be treated 
in their own neighborhood. 3) Child Care Centers for dealing with early 
difficulties of nationalism in a child's life.

Two years earlier, Major General G. B. Chisholm, Deputy Minister of 
Health in Canada_ who later became director of United Nations World 
Health Organization--explained, "Self defense may involve a neurotic 
reaction when it means defending one's own excessive material wealth 
from others who are in great need. This attitude leads to war..."  So his 
solution to the problem is: 'Set's redistribute the wealth among 
everyone.

Further, the re-interpretation and eventual eradication of the individual's 
concept of right and wrong-which has been the basis of child training 
are the belated objectives of practically all effective psychotherapies. 
Now if we digress even further, to Buria (phonetic spelling), the director 
of the Soviet Secret Police in the 1930's, we see he explained the 
communist political strategy through the use of "mental heating" of 
psychiatry:

"Psycho-politics is the art and science of asserting and of maintaining a 
dominion over the thoughts and loyalties of individuals, officers, 
bureaus, and masses, and the effecting of the conquest of enemy nations 
through mental healing. You must work,: he stated, "Until every teacher 
of psychology unknowingly or knowingly teaches only communistic 
doctrine under the guise of psychology."

If you look at the Russian manual of instruction of psycho-political 
warfare, we see in chapter nine, "Psycho-political operations should at 
all times be alert to the Opportunities to organize for the betterment of 
the community mental health centers."

Now, under the new national Mental Health program, at this moment 
there are more than 600 of these community mental health centers 
across the United States. The whole thing was promoted by Dr. Stanly 
F. Yoles (phonetic spelling), who was the director of the National 
Institute of Mental Health in 1969. He stated back then, that the newest 
trend in treating mental illness is care at local health care centers where 
the patient is not isolated from his (or her) family and friends. They 
have been working on this program for 46 years publicly, and now 
across the U.S._through your tax dollars_you have 603 centers (to be 
exact), Community Health Centers that are all part of this program.

This is how they are part of the program. (It has already happened): In 
the mid-1950's, there were set into motion an interesting chain of 
events. About 1956, the Alaska Mental Health Bill was proposed and 
later passed. It granted approximately $12 million and one million acres 
of public land to Alaska so that it could develop its own mental health 
program. Now this was a little abnormal since Alaska only had a little 
over 400 people who were classified as mentally ill!

After the bill was passed, Alaska passed its own enabling legislation to 
get into the mental health business. They started by adopting the 
essential elements of the Public Health Service Draft Act on the 
hospitalization of the mentally ill in the old 'interstate Compact on 
Mental Health"_now called the Uniform Mental Health Act. There 
were no provisions for jury trial in it or anything else. You would just 
be picked up and taken to the Alaskan-Siberian Asylum-
incommunicado_and the state would also confiscate all of your 
personal and real property! They actually tried to do it in 1954 in the 
case of Ford vs. Milinak (phonetic spelling), which declared the act as 
adopted in another state (the state of Missouri) as unconstitutional.

But the act itself still exists_and modified_but essentially in the same 
form, the Uniform Mental Health Act, to which approximately six states 
subscribe.  And in passing most State Constitutions-if you will check 
them from the period of 1935-made a part of their constitution the 
practice of having a person submit to a 90-day mental examination to 
determine his (or her) sanity, without any provisions for a trail by jury. 
This was part of the national program at that time.

In this act, the governor could have anyone picked up and sent to the 
Mental Health Institution in Alaska or elsewhere. The results of rumors 
back in the '50s, were that there was in fact a sinister, Frankenstein-type 
mental health person in Alaska. I wrote to Alaska (the officials, that is) 
and asked them for a description of the kind of one million acres that 
they were eligible to receive under the Alaska Mental Health Act. I also 
asked them for a copy of the inventory they ran for their facilities back 
at that same time. Well, so far no answer. And probably, I will never 
receive an answer without a court order.

Through the years, there was a spot in Alaska that was continually 
referred to: Southeast of Fairbanks, southwest of Fairbanks, northwest 
of Fairbanks--somewhere near Fairbanks. Then I received information 
that a pilot had flown over the entire area once and had had his license 
revoked. So, for S1.85 each, I ordered the low-level navigation maps 
from the federal government for Alaska and located the Alaska-Siberian 
Asylum for the treatment of enemies of the United States. It's right 
where rumor over the past 20 years had placed it: Southwest of 
Fairbanks. It stands out like a sore thumb! It's the only one of that 
geometric configuration within the state of Alaska, and you will note a 
black line running up through Fairbanks and down over near that area of 
the map. That is the railroad that the Dept. of Transportation would take 
the emergency operation of under the Executive Order--if the Executive 
Order went into effect. H.E.W. would be responsible for making a 
determination of whether or not you were mentally disturbed because of 
your nationalistic tendencies, your love for the United States, or your 
adherence to any political or religious doctrine.

Let's look a little further into the type of program that the L.E.A.A. is 
paying for through the Dept. of Justice. The Federal Bureau of Prisons--
located in the backwoods of North Carolina, near a tiny village called 
Butner--is constructing a mammoth 42 acre research complex for 
prisoners from throughout the East. Who will be sent for experiments to 
test new behavioral programs and techniques? Target date for 
completion of the entire system is ironically 1984.

So, they're using right now, under the L.E.A.A. program, something 
called anectine (phonetic spelling). Punishment for troublesome 
behavior within the prison is being done by drugs and shock, likely to 
be the most selected examples of programs that have made use of 
anectine--a derivative of South American curare. Anectine was 
originally used as a beginning factor to electro-convulsive shock. Such 
shocks applied to the head are so strong they can break and graze pores 
under the strain, resulting in muscle contractions. Since anectine 
paralyzes the muscles without diminishing consciousness or the ability 
to feel pain. By first injecting the inmates with it, researchers can turn 
up the voltage as high as they want without cracking the inmates' 
skeleton when his body is thrown into convulsions by the jolt.

What the anectine does, in short, is to simulate death within 30 to 40 
seconds of injection. It brings on paralysis first, with the small rapidly 
moving muscles in the nose, fingers, and eyes; then in the diaphragm 
and the cardiovascular system. As a result, the patient cannot move or 
breath and yet remains fully conscious, as though drowning and dying. 
This is from the 1974 publication, 'Human Behavior.

THE PEOPLE VS. THE CONSPIRATORS

The federal government answered my suit in June (1976) by filing an 
unsworn general denial of everything that I had alleged. I spoke with 
the assistant U.S. Attorney in charge of the case and asked him if he had 
gone to the trouble to call any of the parties mentioned in the suits--
since I had provided not only the addresses, but their telephone numbers 
to provide a faster means of investigation. He said he had not. He had 
not even done a minimal amount of investigation of the case, but yet he 
filed a denial of my allegations.

I filed a motion in the meantime to take the deposition of the person 
who writes the training programs for the concentration camp guards, 
Mr. Richard Burrage--the 75th Maneuver Air Command at Army 
Reserve Center at Houston, Texas--stating that in light of all the recent 
activity of government agents, one of the agencies involved might 
attempt to murder this key witness, the author of the training camp 
program. The federal judge denied my motion, stating that I had not 
quoted enough cases to him justifying my request. However, he was 
also aware as that there were no cases existing on this set of facts, but as 
you will see as I go along with this report, he chose to ignore it.

I then made an agreement with the assistant U. S. Attorney to take the 
deposition to Mr. Burrage. After I'd made the arrangements, the U.S. 
Attorney refused to voluntarily go along with taking the deposition. It is 
very difficult to find justice in our system of courts. It is a corruption-
driven system founded upon the buddy system, and hence, the court 
rules are routinely overlooked or not followed.

On July 20, a hearing was held at the magistrate of Norman Black, U.S. 
District Court in Houston. The courtroom was completely filled with 
spectators. Although the news media had been contacted, no 
representatives of the press were there. There is a news media blackout 
on this matter here in Houston.

Brief oral arguments were presented. The U.S. Attorney explained that I 
was not the proper person to bring the suit because, although the free 
exercise of my constitutional rights was threatened by the concentration 
camp program as alleged, it did not constitute my injury. The magistrate 
was impressed with the information I had thus far collected and stated 
that he would bring it to the attention of the federal judge.  The U.S. 
Attorney tried to have my investigation of the case halted, but the 
magistrate would not go along that far with a pre-arranged decision.

As an additional indication of what I was up against, the original 
hearing was scheduled for 10:30 in the morning. However, the U.S. 
Attorney had secretly had the time changed to 2:30 in the afternoon. The 
magistrate gave the U.S. Attorney permission to file for motion to 
dismiss because he felt that the concentration camp program--to be used 
for persons who exercise their freedom of speech--did not present any 
injury.

Now, on July 23 I had placed in the 'Houston Post' and in the 'Houston 
Chronicle' newspapers the following advertisement in the legal section. 
Quote: "Solicitation for witnesses in Civil Action 78-H 667, Federal 
District Court of Houston, People extemporal William Pabst vs. Gerald 
Ford et d. The action titled: Complaint Against the Concentration Camp 
Program of the Dept. of Defense. Attention: If you have participated in 
Operation Garden Plot, Operation Cable Splicer, the 300th Military 
Police Prisoner of War Command, or the Army Reserve Civil Affairs 
group, you may be involved in a program that needs to be disclosed for 
this suit. To give your testimony call or write; (and here I placed my 
name address and telephone number).

As I previously mentioned, there is a news media blackout on the story 
here in Houston. Both newspapers refused to carry the ad. First, at the 
'Houston Post,' I had to threaten them with a lawsuit to carry out the ad, 
even though I was paying for it. Then, at the 'Chronicle' I had to meet 
with the president and various vice presidents because a refusal from 
that paper had come up from their own lawyers. Both newspapers 
finally carried it, but only after two days of complaining. The initial 
response of both papas was, "We don't carry stories like that" and: 
"Don't you think that the people planning the concentration camps have 
our best interest in mind?" As you will hear for yourselves, the policies 
definitely do not reflect our best interests.

The next event that occurred was that the U.S. Attorney filed a 
"Statement of Authority," showing the reasons he could find why I 
should not be allowed to take depositions to get more information from 
the person who was writing the concentration camp guard training 
program. However, his brief was completely filled with misquotes of 
the law from many cases. He'd mention the case and then invent 
whatever the case should say. In my brief to the court at this point, I 
notified the judge of the violation of the law requiring honesty in such 
matters. But, the notification was ignored by the judge, who apparently 
sanctioned this most dishonest of acts, commonly known as "quoting 
out of context."

THE GENEVA CONVENTION

My brief was filed on August 27. On August 31, formal arguments were 
set. The new courtroom of the magistrate was almost filled again. 
However, no one from the news media showed up for this hearing 
either. The few who were contacted had been told not to go; they would 
lose their jobs.

At the hearing I introduced evidence that heretofore had never been 
introduced in any court of law in the U.S. The U.S. Attorney had 
denied, you will remember, everything in my suit without so much as 
even a tiny investigation. So, I introduced him to evidence the following 
letter from the Dept. of the Army, Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff of 
Personnel, signed by 1B Sergeant, Colonel G.S., Action Director of 
Human Resources Development.

Quoting: "On behalf of President Ford, I am replying to your letter 27 
May, 1976, regarding a news article in the Dallas Morning News. As 
much as he would like to, the president cannot reply personally to every 
communication he receives. Therefore, he has asked the departments 
and agencies of the federal government in those instances where they 
have special knowledge or special authority underlogued.

"For this reason your communication was forwarded to officials of the 
Dept. of Defense. Within the Dept. of Defense, the Army is responsible 
for custody and treatment of enemy prisoners of war and civilian 
internees as defined under terms of the Geneva Convention of 1949. 
Therefore, the Army is prepared to detain prisoners of war and detainees 
as defined in Article IV of the 1949 Geneva Convention relative to the 
treatment of prisoners of war and protection of civilian persons.

'It is U.S. policy that its Armed Forces adhere to the provisions of 
international law to set the example for other countries of the world to 
follow and respecting the rights and dignity of those who become victim 
of international conflict. It should be noted that the Army program is 
designed for implementation during conditions of war between the U.S. 
and one or more foreign countries. The Army had no plans nor does it 
maintain detention camps to imprison American citizens during 
domestic crises."

The problem with this letter is that it's not true, and that's what I'm 
going to discuss at this point. First of all, in verifying the authenticity of 
the claims in the letter, I checked the Geneva text. There is no article in 
the Geneva Convention entitled as the letter states. There is, however, 
on each of the classifications, "Protection of War Victims / Civilian 
Persons" and a separate article on "Prisoners of War." "That was the 
first discrepancy.

Then I turned to Article IV of the Geneva Convention. That article did 
not set up any requirements or authorizations for military units of any 
type and does not even suggest it. Hence, the second discrepancy.

The next problem with the letter from President Ford's representative 
is that it states that the prisoner of war guard program is set up for the 
implementation for "conditions of war between the U.S. and one or 
more (foreign) countries." However, Article III of the Geneva 
Convention reads that the treaty applies to (and I am quoting): 'In case 
of an armed conflict, not of an international character, occurring within 
the territory of one of the high contracting parties." Obviously and 
armed conflict occurring within one's own territory did not mean 
between one or more of the parties to the treaty, especially if only one 
is involved. Now, the examples of this type of conflict are: civil war, 
armed insurgency and guerrilla activities. In other words, they're 
speaking of a domestic conflict.

An even more shocking item is found in the pages of the 1949 Geneva 
Convention under "Protection of War Victims/Civilian Persons." You 
will find the index card, the identification card, forms to be used to 
writing your family, and everything necessary for the administration of 
a concentration camp is contained in this treaty that the U.S. signed and 
ratified. Further, if there is a conflict in the U.S. involving only the U.S. 
this convention or treaty can go into operation_which includes the 
procedures for setting up the concentration camps.

Article LXVIII of the Convention states (and I paraphrase): If you 
commit an offense that is solely intended to harm the occupying power, 
not harming the life or limb of members of the occupying power, but 
merely talking against such a force_such as the Martial Law situation 
you can be imprisoned provided that the duration of such imprisonment 
is proportionate to the offense committed. Well, President Dwight 
Eisenhower didn't feel that provision was strong enough. So he had the 
following additions placed in the treaty, which state: "The U.S. reserves 
the right to impose the death penalty in accordance with the previsions 
of Article LXVIII without regard to whether the offense is referred to 
therein are punishable by death under the law of the occupied territory at 
the time the occupation begins."

So not only can you be imprisoned for having exercised freedom of 
speech; you can be put to death under the provisions of the Geneva 
Convention in 1949 for having exercised, or attempting to exercise 
freedom of speech.

The next item that I introduced into evidence was a field manual; FM 
41-1-, '<Civil Affairs activities includes: 'item 4. Assumption of full or 
partial executive, legislative and judicial authority ova a country or 
area." So let's see what a "country or area" is defined as in the same 
manual. It includes: "small towns and rural areas, municipalities of 
various population sizes, districts, counties, provinces or states, regions 
of national government."

Nowhere in the manual does it exclude this program from being put into 
effect right here in the United States. As a matter of fact, in Kearny, 
New Jersey, the Civil Affairs group went into that area and practiced 
taking ova that governmental unit. Yet the Army, in it's letter of June 
16, states that these programs are not for us. However, they are practiced 
here in the United States under conditions that can only occur here t 
home.

The study outline of field manuals FM 41-10 on page j-24 under Penal 
institutions 1-B," you see there is a program on concentration camps and 
a labor camp are always located near each other for obvious reasons.

Again on page d-4 of the same manual you'll find a sample receipt for 
seized property; a sample receipt written in English and containing 
terminology applicable to only U.S. territory. On page 8-2 of the same 
manual, under the heading "Tables of Organization and Equipment," we 
find that there are three other organizations that would be working along 
with the Civil Affairs operation: the Chemical Service Organization, the 
Composite Service Organization, and the Psychological Operations 
Organization, along with the various Civil Affairs organizations.

In July of that year (1976), the following Civil Affairs groups met with 
the following airborne groups at a staging area in Fort Chaffee, AR A 
staging area is where military units meet before they go into action. 
They met with the 82nd Airborne and part of the 101st Airborne; the 
32nd Civil Affairs group of San Antonio, TX headquarters; the 362nd 
Civil Affairs brigade from Dallas, TX; the 431st Civil Affairs company 
from Little Rock, AR headquarters; the 306th Civil Affairs group, U.S. 
Army Reserves, Fayetteville,AR commanded by Lt. Colonel N. 
McQuire (phonetic spelling) and William Highland. The 486th Civil 
Affairs company from Tulsa, OK; the 418th Civil Affairs company from 
Kansas City, MO; the 307th Civil Affairs group from Abilene, IX; the 
413th company from Hanlin, LA, the 12th S.S. group, 2nd Battalion 
(headquarters unknown).

They're ready to go into action. The problem is, as it appears they were 
ready to take over the entire government of the United States as their 
mission sets out. One man who attended this staging area talked to a 
Civil Affairs sergeant and asked him what his job was. The sergeant 
explained that the civilians of this country will really be surprised some 
day when the Civil Affairs groups begin to operate the government. 
Now, the Dept. of the Army still maintains that all this not for the 
United States--yet this training continues here for us. The evidence is 
overwhelming: the plan exists for the imprisonment of millions of U.S. 
citizens. Even though all this information was presented to the federal 
magistrate, he still felt that no one was injured by such a plot.

On the second day of September, 1976, the magistrate recommended to 
the federal judge that the case be dismissed. The sole basis for his 
reasoning to dismiss was that we have to be actually physically injured 
before we can maintain a lawsuit of this type. He did not feel that, 
although all this active planning, preparation and training was going on, 
that any U.S. citizen had been injured-even though the citizen may fear 
exercising his or her freedom for fear of being detained and imprisoned 
in a concentration camp at a later date.

IGNORING THE CONSTITUTION

The case of Tatum B. Laird, heard before the Supreme Court in 1974, is 
a case in point. It involved the Army intelligence's collecting apparatus, 
which was developing a list of names of persons who the Army felt 
were troublesome. The Supreme Court held that the making of list of 
this type did not of and by itself present any injuries. The minority 
opinion in that case was that the injury in the case with a program such 
as this, made people afraid to use their freedom of speech for fear of 
being sent to jail for it. But the majority did not buy that argument.

The difference between that case and this case-although we also have 
the computer program--is that we have something much further past that 
point, the concentration camp guard program and the Civil Affairs 
program for the taking over of all functions of our government. In light 
of that the federal judge said that this is not an injury. As a matter of act, 
the U. S. Attorney alleged that even if people were place in 
concentration camps, if they were all treated the same they would still 
not have the right to go to federal court.

On the 20th day of September, I filed a memorandum to notify the 
magistrate and the federal judge that I had discovered that the federal 
government had a program for a number of years to suspend our 
constitutional right of the writ of habeas corpus. This information 
substantiated the complaint. Habeas corpus is the name of that legal 
instrument utilized to bring someone before a judge when the person is 
being illegally imprisoned or detained so that he (or she) may obtain his 
(or her) freedom. The Constitution states that the writ of habeas corpus 
shall never be suspended.

I found the disturbing information in a report: 94-755, 94th Congress, 
2nd Session Senate, April 26th, 1976, entitled "Intelligence Activities 
and the Rights of Americans Book II." On page 17-d, entitled "First 
Amendment Rights," the report states that more importantly "the 
government surveillance activities in the aggregate, whether expressly 
intended to do so, to deter the exercise of First Amendment rights by 
American citizens who become aware of the government's domestic 
intelligence program."

Beginning on page 54 it is stated that, beginning in 1946_four years 
before the Emergency Detention Act of 1950 was passed--the FBI 
advised the Attorney General that it had secretly compiled a secret 
index of potentially dangerous persons. The Justice Dept. then made 
tentative plans for emergency detention based on suspension of the 
privilege of the writ of habeas corpus. Department officials 
deliberately avoided going to Congress. When the Emergency 
Detention Act of 1950 was passed, it did not authorize the suspension 
of the writ of habeas corpus. But shortly after passage of that act, 
according to a bureau document, Attorney General J. R. McGraft told 
the FBI to disregard it and to proceed with the program as previously 
outlined.

A few sentences later on page 55 it states, "With the security index, use 
broader standards to determine potential dangerousness than those 
described in the statute." Unlike the act, Department plans provided fro 
issuing a master search warrant and a master arrest warrant. This is the 
center importance: It is the same thing that I am alleging in federal 
court. Yet, the magistrate chose to ignore these facts also.

We have government officials not only ignoring the will of Congress, 
but doing the opposite of what the Constitution provides by planning 
illegally for the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus. In addition, as 
mentioned before, the master search warrant and the master arrest 
warrant are forms fed into the computer, which print the names and 
addresses on them from the tapes previously prepared by the 
intelligence-gathering program.

As you are arrested, your home will be searched and anything found 
there may be confiscated. This program has existed since 1946 up to and 
including 1973, and without proper access to judicial discovery 
techniques. It can't be determined whether the same plan now exists 
under the same name or under another name altogether.

This memorandum was filed on September 28 to make the court aware 
of the danger that our rights of freedom of speech and lawful assembly 
are in. But the court, on September 30--after this notification was 
received--dismissed the case. however, in keeping with the practice of 
federal courts in Houston of actively participating in the obstruction of 
justice, I was not notified of the dismissal until the 6th of October--
which gave me just two working days to submit any further motion in a 
10-day period before time starts running for the appeal.

What I have just said regarding the federal courts in Houston is not only 
my opinion; The 'Houston Chronicle' surprisingly, published an 
extensive document severely criticizing the federal courts in Houston for 
making up their own rules as they go along with the proceedings, a well 
as commenting on the communist-like Supreme Court attitude of the 
judges and the court personnel. l My experience here has been that the 
court has returned to me almost every document I filed. Then after a big 
argument, they reaccept the document, stating that they just made a 
mistake. In reality, the power structure doesn't want these types of cases 
in any federal court.

SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE

On the 8th of October, I had submitted a request for finding the facts in 
the filing which had been established by the evidence presented:

* 1) The 300th Military Police POW Command is located at Livonia, Mich.

* 2) The Dept. of the Army has stated that said Command exists per se 
the Geneva Convention of 1949, a treaty of the U.S., Article IV thereof 
under the title relative to the treatment of prisoners of war and 
protection of civilian prisoners.

* 3) However, no such title exists in the Geneva Convention per se.

* 4) Nevertheless, there are separate titles, one of which is; a. 
Multilateral Protection of War Victims/Prisoners of War; b. Multilateral 
Protection of War Victims/Civilian Persons.

* 5)Nevertheless, Article IV of both titles does of provide for the 
creation of any military programs for concentration camps.

* 6) Whether Mr. Fenren of the 300th Military Police POW Command 
has stated that the purpose of the Command is for the detention of 
foreign prisoners of war and enemies of the United States.

* 7) Further, Article III, concerning civilian persons, makes the treaty 
applicable to conflicts occurring solely within the territory of the U.S. 
that are not of an international character, which is capable of including 
any type of conflict in its description whether it be civil war or 
guerrilla activity or anything else.  The text states: "In case of armed 
conflict not of an international character occurring in the territory of 
one of the high contracting parties, each party to a conflict shall be 
bound to apply to the minimum of the following provisions."

* 8) Dept. of the Army field manual FM 41-10, Civil Affairs Operations 
of Civil Affairs Organization, lists as one of its functions the 
assumption of full or partial executive, legislative and judicial authority 
over a country or an area and there is no specific exclusion of the U. S. 
as such a country or area.

* 9) Said manual defines country along certain geographical population 
basis, county, state regions and national government.

*10) Said organization in fact conducted practiced takeovers of local 
and state governments in the continental U.S., including but not limited 
to the state of New Jersey.

* 11) Said organization includes in its study outline page j-24 a section 
on concentration camps and labor camps.

* 12) Said organization includes in it operations composite service 
operations and psychological operations organizations.

*13) Said psychological operation is working with the U. S. Public 
Health Service, are prepared to operate any and/or all mental health 
facilities in the U. S. as tools of repression against outspoken but 
nonviolent political conduct of the U. S. citizens in conjunction with all 
the above, which is to be used for the same purpose.

* 14) Further, the Dept. of Justice, inconjunction with this program, has 
had plans for the suspension of writ of habeas corpus since the year of 
1946, has planned depriving persons being detained under this total 
program any means for protection against tyrannical political repression.
The plaintiff requested that the court make findings of fact and draw 
conclusions of law, consistent therewith as shown by the evidence on 
record before the court.  The effect of this request is that the case must 
go back to the district judge for further consideration.  I mentioned that 
it appeared that all this planning for concentration camps was to be 
directed against anyone regardless of this political persuasion or his deo- 
ideology who exercised freedom of speech against the established power 
structure of international bankers and multinational corporation.  But, 
with Proposition B-type movements threatening to reduce taxes 
throughout our nation, I foresee an activation of emergency programs so 
that the parasites on the federal take will continue to receive their 
checks.

PRICE OF PATRIOTISM

In the same Senate document, on intelligence activities on the rights of 
Americans referred to on pages 166 and 167, you will find that the 
federal government has targeted its intelligence activities against one 
group of Americans.  On page 166, the first classification listed is 
rightists and anti-Communist groups. The first group on page 167 on 
Army surveillance lists the John Birch Society as number one and the 
Young Americans for Freedom as the number two target.  Therefore, the 
groups of U.S. American citizens considered to be the biggest enemy of 
the U.S. by the federal government at this is the conservative patriot.

Although this information has been available since April of this year 
(1979), no one has mentioned this incredible discovery that the federal 
government considers the patriotic conservative as its greatest enemy.  I 
have received all kinds of information regarding this case from all 
across the United States.

PRICE OF APATHY

I obtained the 1945 report of the O. S. S. (Office of Strategic Services)-
-the precursor of the C.I.A.-7th Army, William W. Quinn, Colonel 
G.F.CA.C.of the G2, on the liberation of Dachau, a concentration camp 
during the liberation in Germany.  It contains much groupings of 
information, but the relevant portion of the report concerns itself with 
the section on the townspeople. Quoting from his report, on why the 
people of this little town didn't complain or didn't overthrow 
oppressors, but just continued to go along and get along even though 
they lost their freedom in the process. I quote:

"These words crop up again and again.  They are the rationalization of a 
man who admits that he was a member of the Nazi party.  'I was forced 
to do so by business reasons,' they state.  We were lied to in every 
respect but they admit they knew the camp existed.  But, they saw the 
work detail to the inmates passing through the streets under guard, and 
in some instances the S.S. behaved brutally even towards the 
townspeople.

"When asked if they realized that within the last three months before the 
liberation 13,000 men lost their lives within a stone's throw of where the 
people lived, they claimed they were shocked and surprised.

'When asked if they never saw transports of dead and dying pass 
through the streets along the railway, they referred only to the last one.  
They insist that most of the trains came in at night and that they were 
sealed cars.

"Did they never ask what was in the endless procession of cars that 
came in full and always went out empty?  A typical reply was, 'We were 
told it was all army material and booty from France.'

"It is established that anyone who stated that he was only one train come 
in in the daytime was telling a flat lie.  There are quite a few such 
people in Dachau."

The analysis of the anti-Nazi element of the town: 1) The people knew 
what was going on in the camp, even ten years prior to liberation; 2) 
The town did a thriving business from the concentration camp guard; 3) 
Ninety percent are guilty and have dabbed themselves with the blood of 
innocent human beings; 4) The people are to blame for their cowardice--
they were all too cowardly. They didn't want to risk anything--and that 
was the way it was in all of Germany.

The conclusion of this report written on Dachau written in 1945 on the 
liberation of the concentration camp applies today.  The conclusion is as 
follows: If one is to attempt tremendous task and accept the terrible 
responsibility of judging a whole town, assess it in mass as to collective 
guilt or innocence of all its inhabitants for their complicity in 
committing this most heinous of crimes, one would do well to 
remember the fearsome shadow that hangs over everyone in this state in 
light of the similar conditions that now prevail in the midst of our own 
circumstances.

So you can see how the whole program is related here.  My lawsuit was 
against one single aspect of the total program: The enforcement arm of 
the conspiracy.  The people who makeup the cadre that is going to 
occupy the concentration camps where enemies of the U. S. will be 
placed.  Remember Solzhenitsyn's words in the 'Gulag Archipelago': 
"Resistance should have begun right there but it did not begin.  You 
aren't gagged, you really can and you really ought to cry out that arrests 
are being made on the strength of false accusations.  If many such 
outcries had been heard all over the city would arrests have no longer 
have been so easy.

They, the tyrants, can't work in the public eye.  These people who were 
so apathetic, hoping that nothing was really wrong, that nothing would 
happen to their persons and property, sat back and watched.  The 
anarchists, financed by multinational interests, looted and pillaged their 
country.

If you think that all (that) is necessary is to pay your house notes, to pay 
your TV notes, to go vote when there is an election, and to stand back 
during the rest of the year and watch as your country and way of life are 
replaced by a system in which you will be a slave in a concentration 
camp, you_not the conspirators_are guilty because you, by silent 
acquiescence, invite tyranny and oppression.

When you have to steal food to eat because our production is for foreign 
use because the Dept. of Commerce--through Executive Order 11490 
and its predecessors--is responsible for international distribution of our 
commodities, don't sit in the culvert hiding and eating and wondering 
what happened because you made it all possible.

When your family is split up and spread across the United States to do 
slave labor and you never see your loved ones again, it will be your fault 
because you did nothing to prevent it.  Once we lose our freedom, we 
are never going to regain it.  That is why we must stand together to 
prevent the loss of our freedom as citizens of the United States.

Thank you very much. (Conclusion of taped report.)

