
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     BLUEPRINT FOR U.S. DICTATORSHIP PLACES INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS AT RISK

                               By Mike Blair
                        Exclusive to The SPOTLIGHT


Washington, DC -- During the Persian Gulf war and the military buildup
leading to it, President George Bush began using the term "New World
Order," often suggesting that the commitment of so-called multinational
forces involved in the military effort was the beginning of this alleged
worldwide utopia.

     Supposedly using the vehicle of the United Nations, Bush's New World
Order would be the arbitrator of all world problems and the apparatus to
enforce globalist dictates through the use of armed forces combined from
the armies of member nations.  The UN law would be, regardless of the
nationalist interests of individual countries, the final word.

     Actually, even the mention of a New World Order would normally be
anathema to thinking Americans and, in particular, conservative political
leaders and civil libertarians.

                            SINISTER TECHNOLOGY

     It is also surprising to many critics of the move toward one-world
government that Bush would even dare choose the term "New World Order" to
define his globalist schemes.  However, most Americans alive today were
born after World War II, when propaganda of the so-called Allied powers
used the terms of "New Order" or "New World Order" to describe in a
sinister way the military efforts of Japan and, in particular, Germany
under Adolf Hitler.

     Few, it seems, have taken the time to analyze just what Bush has in
mind for his New World Order, of which America is to become an integral
part, starting with supplying about 90 percent of the muscle, and young
lives, that tackled and defeated Iraqi strongman Saddam Hussein's Arab
legions.

     However, patriotic Constitutional scholars know that Bush's New World
Order is the worst attack ever on America as a sovereign, independent and
free nation.

                             BEGAN WITH WILSON

     Efforts to form a global government are certainly nothing new.
American political leaders, who were concerned with America first, were
able to overcome the internationalist, one-world government machinations of
President Woodrow Wilson following World War I.  Wilson was prevented from
realizing his visions of a New World Order, through the League of Nations,
by a powerful Senate opposition, which refused to rubber-stamp for Wilson
U.S. membership in the world body.

     A few decades later, however, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt,
near the end of World War II, was able to get his one-world plans under way
by laying the groundwork for today's United Nations, which was completed
under his successor, Harry S. Truman.

     A few years later, that membership in an UN-mandated war in Korea cost
America 35,000 young lives.

     The problem that one-worlders have always encountered, of course, is
the U.S. Constitution, which has stood as a bulwark against any globalist
schemes.

     Nevertheless, American presidents since Roosevelt have insidiously
chipped away at the great powers of the people, written into the
Constitution by America's immortal Founding Fathers, with the use of so-
called executive orders.

                              CAUSE FOR ALARM

     Americans should be deeply alarmed that those presidents have signed a
series of executive orders (EOs) which, under the guise of any national
emergency declared by the president serving at the time, can virtually
suspend the Constitution and convert the nation into a virtual
dictatorship.  Dissent, peaceful or otherwise, is eliminated.

     Those backing efforts to circumvent the Constitution may have gotten
the idea from President Abraham Lincoln, whose use of various extraordinary
powers of his office -- which many Constitutional scholars still insist was
illegal -- suspended various civil rights to curb such problems as draft
riots during the Civil War.

     In 1862, Congress enacted the Enrollment Act to allow the drafting of
young men for the Union Army.  The act was rife with inequities, such as
the provision which allowed a man to pay $300 or hire a substitute to take
his place.  This hated "Rich Man's Exemption," as it was called, angered
the average American of military age and in particular young Irish
immigrants in New York City.

     A riot erupted in New York in 1863, and it resulted in Lincoln using
some extraordinary powers of his office to keep the Union from falling
apart from within.

     But over the years, presidents have used these powers for purposes
never intended by the Founding Fathers.

                            INDIANS VICTIMIZED

     President John Tyler used such powers in 1842 to round up Seminole
Indians in Georgia and Florida and force-march them -- men, women and
children -- to Arkansas.  This was probably the first use of internment in
America to deal with unpopular minorities.  It was not the last.

     In 1886, the Geronimo Chiricahua Apache Indians surrendered to U.S.
troops in the West, were rounded up by order of President Grover Cleveland,
and shipped to internment in Florida and Alabama.

     Earlier, during the War Between the States, Sioux Indians in
Minnesota, when there was a delay in paying them their yearly allowance,
began attacking nearby white settlements.  Lincoln sent in a hastily raised
force of volunteers under Col. H. H. Sibley.  Little Crow, leader of the
Kaposia band, was decisively defeated by the Union troops on September 23,
1862, and more than 2,000 Sioux were taken captive, although Little Crow
himself and a few followers escaped.

     Through the process of a military tribunal, sanctioned by Lincoln, 36
Sioux leaders were  publicly hanged.  Whether the Sioux executed were
innocent or guilty was apparently immaterial.  The revolt was quelled, and
the Minnesota Sioux were all moved to reservations in Dakota.

     These instances of the nation's executive branch taking extraordinary
measures to confine, or intern, American Indians are just a few of many
examples.

     More recent examples of interning minorities by executive order
occurred during World War I and World War II.

     During World War I, an unknown number of German-Americans were rounded
up by federal authorities and interned until after the war.  In addition,
regardless of the First Amendment of the Constitution, which guarantees
freedom of speech and of the press.  German-language newspapers, published
within German-American communities in the United States, were banned.

                             WW II INTERNMENTS

     After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, within
days the FBI rounded up tens of thousands of Japanese-Americans, guilty
only of being of Japanese ancestry, under the authority of an executive
order issued by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt.  The lists of those to
be apprehended had been drawn up months earlier, before the war.

     Held in concentration camps, the perimeters guarded by U.S. soldiers
armed with machine guns, the mostly innocent and patriotic Japanese-
Americans were not released until after the war.

     Congress has recently passed legislation extending the nation's
apologies to the Japanese-Americans and extending them compensation for
their years of confinement.

     However, no apology or compensation has ever been extended to the more
than 8,000 German-Americans who were confined in dozens of jails and camps
across the United States, also by order of Roosevelt.

     Many were not released until 1947, a full two years after the end of
the war, in total violation of the Geneva Conventions.

     "What happened to me and thousands of others is old history," said
Eberhard Fuhr of Cincinnati, who was interned at 17 years of age, "but the
next time it could be any other group, which is then not politically
correct, or out of favor for any other reason (SPOTLIGHT, May 20, 1991).

     Fuhr's warning, of course, had already been proved correct just
several months earlier when, under orders of Bush, the FBI hounded
thousands of innocent Arab-Americans as the U.S. prepared for the Persian
Gulf conflict.

     Only the efforts of a handful of irate U.S. Congressmen halted the
harassment but not until after a number of U.S. military bases were
selected as sites of internment camps for Arab-Americans and war
dissenters.

-----------------

Reproduced with permission from a special supplement to _The Spotlight_,
May 25, 1992. This text may be freely reproduced provided acknowledgement
to The Spotlight appears, including this address:

                               The SPOTLIGHT
                        300 Independence Avenue, SE
                           Washington, DC  20003

