
                        DESIGNER DISEASES

           AIDS As Biological & Psychological Warfare

                        by Waves Forrest

Despite repeated denials from Defense Department officials, 
allegations persist that AIDS is a genetically altered virus, 
which has been deliberately released to wipe out homosexuals 
and/or non-whites in the U.S. and reduce populations in third 
world countries.

At first glance it seems like the epitome of paranoia to accuse 
the military of conspiring to exterminate citizens of their own 
country, and even some of their own troops.  However, the vast 
majority of military personnel could be completely unaware of 
such a plot in their midst, while a relative handful of traitors 
in key positions could conduct it under cover of classified 
operations.  And the circumstantial evidence is actually quite 
compelling, that the AIDS virus was artificially engineered, and 
planted in several different locations at about the same time 
through vaccination programs, and possibly blood bank 
contamination.

At a House Appropriations hearing in 1969, the Defense 
Department's Biological Warfare (BW) division requested funds to 
develop through gene-splicing a new disease that would both 
resist and break down a victim's immune system.  "Within the next 
5 to 10 years it would probably be possible to make a new 
infective micro-organism which could differ in certain important 
respects from any known disease-causing organisms.  Most 
important of these is that it might be refractory to the 
immunological and therapeutic processes upon which we depend to 
maintain our relative freedom from infectious diseases."  (See - 
A Higher Form of Killing: The Secret Story of Chemical and 
Biological Warfare by R. Harris and J. Paxman, p 266, Hill and 
Wang, pubs.)  The funds were approved.

AIDS appeared within the requested time frame, and has the exact 
characteristics specified.

In 1972, the World Health Organization published a similar 
proposal: "An attempt should be made to ascertain whether viruses 
can in fact exert selective effects on immune function, e.g., 
by ...affecting T cell function as opposed to B cell function.  
The possibility should also be looked into that the immune 
response to the virus itself may be impaired if the infecting 
virus damages more or less selectively the cells responding to 
the viral antigens."  (Bulletin of the W.H.O., vol. 47, p 257-
274.)  This is a clinical description of the function of the AIDS 
virus.

The incidence of AIDS infections in Africa coincides exactly with 
the locations of the W.H.O. smallpox vaccination program in the 
mid-1970's (London Times, May 11, 1987).  Some 14,000 Haitians 
then on UN secondment to Central Africa were also vaccinated in 
this campaign.  Personnel actually conducting the vaccinations 
may have been completely unaware that the vaccine was anything 
other than what they were told.

A striking feature of AIDS is that it's ethno-selective.  The 
rate of infection is twice as high among Blacks, Latinos and 
Native Americans as among whites, with death coming two to three 
times as swiftly.  And over 80% of the children with AIDS and 90% 
of infants born with it are among these minorities.  "Ethnic 
weapons" that would strike certain racial groups more heavily 
than others have been a long-standing U.S. Army BW objective.  
(Harris and Paxman, p 265)

Under the current U.S. administration biological warfare research 
spending has increased 500 percent, primarily in the area of 
genetic engineering of new disease organisms.

The "discovery" of the AIDS virus (HTLV3) was announced by Dr. 
Robert Gallo at the National Cancer Institute, which is on the 
grounds of Fort Detrick, Maryland, a primary U.S. Army biological 
warfare research facility.  Actually, the AIDS virus looks and 
acts much more like a cross between a bovine leukemial virus and 
a sheep visna (brain-rot) virus, cultured in a human cell cul
ture, than any virus of the HTLV group.

The closest thing in this case to a "smoking test tube" so far is 
the AIDS virus itself.  If it was possible for such a monstrosity 
to occur naturally it would have done so ages ago and decimated 
mankind at that time.  Some other life form would presently be in 
control of this planet (assuming that is not already the case).

The Hepatitis B vaccine study in 1978 appears to have been the 
initial means of planting the infection in New York City.  The 
test protocol specified non-monogamous males only, and 
homosexuals received a different vaccine from heterosexuals.  At 
least 25-50% of the first reported New York AIDS cases in 1981 
had received the Hepatitis B test vaccine in 1978.  By 1984, 64% 
of the vaccine recipients had AIDS, and the figures on the 
current infection rate for the participants of that study are 
held by the U.S. Department of Justice, and "unavailable."

The AIDS epidemic emerged full-blown in the three U.S. cities 
with "organized gay communities" before being reported elsewhere, 
including Haiti or Africa, so it is epidemiologically impossible 
for either of those countries to be the origin point for the U.S. 
infections.

Another indication AIDS had multiple origin points is that the 
14-month doubling time of the disease cannot nearly account for 
the current number of cases if we assume only a small number of 
initial infections starting in the late 1970s.

Before dismissing the possibility that a U.S. Army BW facility 
would participate in genocide, bear in mind that hundreds of top 
Nazis were imported into key positions in the U.S. military-
intelligence establishment following WW II.  U.S. military 
priorities were then re-oriented from defeating Nazis to 
"defeating" communism at any cost, and strengthening military 
control of economic and foreign policy decisions (See - Project 
Paperclip by Clarence Lasby, Atheneum 214, NY, and Gehlen: Spy of 
the Century by E.H. Cookridge, Random House.)  There's no proof 
those Nazis ever gave up their long-term goals of conquest and 
genocide, just because they changed countries.  Fascism was and 
is an international phenomenon.

It's not as if this was total reversal of previous U.S. military 
policy, however.  Hitler claimed to have gotten his inspiration 
for the "final solution" from the extermination of Native 
Americans in the U.S.  For that matter the first example of germ 
warfare in the U.S. was in 1763 when some of the European 
colonists gave friendly Indians a number of blankets that had 
been infected with smallpox, causing many deaths.

One indication of the actual U.S. military priorities regarding 
BW was the importation of the entire Japanese germ warfare unit 
(#731) following WW II.  These people killed over 3000 POWs, 
including many Americans, in a variety of grisly experiments, yet 
they were granted complete amnesty and given American military 
positions in exchange for sharing their research findings with 
their U.S. Army counterparts.

Consider also the callous attitude displayed by top military 
officials toward veterans suffering from the after-effects of 
exposure to Agent Orange and radiation from nuclear weapons 
tests.

In fact, since the end of WW II over 200 experimental BW tests 
have been conducted on civilians and military personnel in the 
U.S.  One example was the test spraying from Sept. 20-26, 1950 of 
bacillus globigi and syraceus maracezens over 117 square miles of 
the San Francisco area, causing pneumonia-like infections in many 
of the residents.  The family of one elderly man who died in the 
test sued the government, but lost.  To this day, syraceus is a 
leading cause of death among the elderly in the San Francisco 
area.  Another case was the joint Army-CIA BW test in 1955, still 
classified, in which an undisclosed bacteria was released in the 
Tampa Bay region of Florida, causing a dramatic increase in 
whooping cough infections, including twelve deaths.  A third 
example was the July 7-10, 1966 release of bacteria throughout 
the New York subway system, conducted by the U.S. Army's Special 
Operations Division.  Due to the vast number of people exposed it 
would virtually impossible to identify, let alone prove, and 
specific health problems resulting directly from this test.

Despite the loyalty of the vast majority of U.S. military 
personnel toward their country, there are clearly some military 
officials who have very different intentions, and they occupy 
high enough positions to impose their priorities on military 
programs and get away with it, so far.

The first detailed charges regarding AIDS as a BW weapon were 
published in the Patriot newspaper in New Delhi, India, on July 
4, 1984.  It is hard to say where the investigations of this 
story in the Indian press might have led, if they had not been 
sidetracked by two major domestic disasters shortly thereafter:  
the assassination of Indira Gandhi on Oct. 31 and the Bhopal 
Union Carbide plant "accident" that killed several thousand and 
injured over 200,000 on Dec. 3.

The Soviet press picked up the story on October 1985, making it 
easy for U.S. Defense Department spokesmen to dismiss the charges 
as "Soviet propaganda," even though many other countries carried 
it.  The Soviets recently retracted the charges, in the new 
spirit of US-USSR cooperation.

A variation on the AIDS-BW theory that is popular in far-right 
publications is that AIDS was developed in Soviet laboratories 
for use against the U.S.  An obvious problem with this idea is 
that the victims of choice of a Soviet BW attack would be anti-
communists, not minorities or homosexuals, who are generally more 
left-wing.  The people at greatest risk from AIDS in the U.S. are 
in fact the very elements most disliked by arch-conservatives.  
In any case, it is simplistic to assume that one country, U.S. or 
USSR, is conducting this campaign against one another.  Although 
concealed in apparent conflicts between nations, the real 
culprits are multi-national fascists on both "sides" still bent 
on massive population reductions and global domination.

Other motives include the old "divide and conquer" principle; 
AIDS is inspiring fear and mistrust between people, and scaring 
them away from relating to each other at the basic level of 
sexuality.  It is acting as a barrier to the attempted cultural 
resurgence toward peace, love and cooperation.  Of high school 
students surveyed last year as to which decade they'd most like 
to have grown up in, 90% chose the 60's.  The last thing pro-war 
fascists want is another "love generation," especially if it is 
more politically sophisticated than the last one.

Apparently, homosexuals were an initial target in the U.S. 
because their sexual practices would help in the rapid spread of 
the disease, and because it was correctly assumed that very few 
non-homosexual citizens would pay much attention during the early 
years of the epidemic.  Also, the stigma of a "homosexual 
disease" would interfere with rational analysis and discussion of 
AIDS.  Bear in mind that homosexuals were among the first to be 
exterminated in Nazi Germany, before Jews or other minorities, so 
fewer citizens would object.

The details of precisely how the AIDS virus was synthesized, mass 
cultured, and spread by incorporating into vaccination programs 
are available but fairly intricate.  It is beyond the scope of 
this report to present a crash course in virology, epidemiology, 
genetic engineering, and the military strategies of international 
fascism.  Readers are encouraged to obtain and study the 
references cited here, and demand a full inquiry.  Those 
officials who are actually involved in the coverup will reveal it 
by their inaction when pressed to investigate.

Evil is hard to confront, especially on the preposterous scale we 
have here.  If you acknowledge the presence of those who think 
their only hope for survival is to kill off two thirds of all the 
other kinds, and their ability to manage it, you then pretty much 
have to do something about it.

Three good sources, each which lists many other key references, 
are:  Covert Action Information Bulletin #28 ($5), Box 50272, 
Washington, D.C.  20004; Bio-Attack Alert ($20), Dr. Robert 
Strecker, 1501 Colorado Blvd., Los Angeles, CA  90041; Radio Free 
America #16 by Dave Emery and Nip Tuck (3 tapes, $10), Davkore 
Co., 1300-D Space Park Way, Mountain View, CA  94043.

This report was originally printed in - Critique - Exposing 
Consensus Reality, P.O. Box 11368, Santa Rosa, CA  95406.  $15.00 
for three issues (one year).
