July, 1986
This  is wc­ rbatim transcript from a photo-copy that some person gave  me.
He  said that part of this document or related documents were published  in
serial  form in the late 1970's in some kind of men's magazine  (Penthouse,
Ramparts,  After Dark?,  I can't remember,  but I know it wasn't Playboy as
that  would have stuck in my mind).   I got this in 1984.  Punctuation  and
grammer  errors are included (there are plenty of punctuation errors and  I
think  this guy's horrible use of commas and parentheses is rubbi„á¹Mff  on
me).   There are four sequential .TXT files that I typed up to so that they
can be digitally transmitted:   GEMSTON1.TXT,  GEMSTON2.TXT, (both of these
are   in   archive  GEMARC1.ARC-using  arc  5.00)  and   GEMSTON3.TXT   and
GEMSTON4.TXT,  (these are in GEMARC2.ARC) all about 16K long.  That's all I
know about any of this.


A SKELETON KEY TO THE GEMSTONE FILES        MAY 1, 1975



The gemstone file was written in many segments over a period of years by an
American  man  named  Bruce Roberts.å×Ž‰arts of the file were  released  to
certain  Americans beginning in 1969.   The number of handwritten pages  is
well over a thousand,  of which I have read about four hundred.   I do  not
have  the  time  of  the research facilities to varify  the  entire  story.
Perhaps others can help.

Since  the  scope  of the work is so large,  and the  events  described  so
complex  and  interlocking,  it  may be more easily  understood  with  this
skeleton  outline of the gemstone thesis.   Individual papers can ˜ÀÁÝn  be
read with greater comprehension.

1932:   Onassis,  a  Greek  drug pusher and ship owner who made  his  first
million  selling  "Turkish  tobacco" (Opium) in  Argentina,  worked  out  a
profitable  deal  with  Joseph Kennedy,  Eugene Meyer,  and  Meyer  Lansky.
Onassis  was to ship booze directly into Boston for Joseph  Kennedy.   Also
involved was a heroin deal with Franklin and Elliott Roosevelt.

1934:   Onassis,  Rockefeller  and the Seven Sisters (major oil  companies)
signed  an agreement,  fM¸–ined an oil cartel memo:  Beat the Arabs out  of
their oil, ship it on Onassis's ships; Rockefeller and the Seven Sisters to
get rich.  All this was done.

Roberts,  studying  journalism and physics at the University  of  Wisconsin
learned  these things via personal contacts.   His special interest was  in
crystallography  -- and  the  creation of synthetic  rubies,  the  original
Gemstone experiment.

1936-1940:   Eugene Meyer buys the Washington Post,  to get our news Media;
other Mafia buy other papeâ:^ broadcasting,  T.V., etc. News censorship of
all major news goes into effect.

1941-1945:   World  War  II;  very  profitable  for  Onassis,  Rockefeller,
Kennedys,  Roosevelts, I.G. Parben, etc. Onassis selling oil, arms and dope
to both sides went through the war without losing a single ship or man.

1949:   Onassis buys U.S. surplus "Liberty Ships" in questionable (illegal)
purchase.  Lawyer Burke Marshall helps him.

1956:  Howard Hughes, Texas millionaire, is meanwhile buying his way toward
his owÜU}rsonal gain.   He buys senators,  governors, etc. He finally buys
his last politician: newly elected V.P. Nixon, via a quarter-million dollar
non-repayable loan to Nixon's brother Donald.

Early 1957:  V.P. Nixon repays the favor by having IRS Treasury grants tax-
free  status (refused twice before) to "Hughes  Medical  Foundation",  sole
owner of Hughes Aircraft, creating a tax-free, non-accountable money funnel
or laundry, for whatever Hughes wanted to do.  U.S. Government also shelved
anti-trust suitÎV‹ainst Hughes' T.W.A., etc.

March 1957:   Onassis carried out a carefully planned event:  He has Hughes
kidnapped  from his bungalow at the Beverly Hills Hotel,  using Hughes' own
men  (Chester Davis,  born Cesare in Sisily,  et al).   Hughes" men  either
quit,  get fired,  or stay on in the new Onassis organization.   A few days
later,  Mayor  Cannon  of  Nevada  (now senator  Cannon)  arranges  a  fake
"marriage" to Jean Peters,  to explain Hughes' battered and  brain  damaged
in  the scuffle,  is takÀø7|o the Emerald Isle Hotel in the Bahamas,  where
the entire top floor has been rented for thirty days and later dragged  off
to  a cell on Onassis's island,  Skorpios.   Onassis now has a much  larger
power  base in the U.S.  (the Hughes empire),  as well as control over V.P.
Nixon  and other Hughes purchased politicians.   L.  Wayne Rector  "Hughes"
double since 1955, becomes "Hughes".

September, 1957:  Onassis calls the Appalachian meeting to announce to U.S.
Mafia  head  his  grab of Hughes and his a›-Çion of Hughes game  plan  for
acquiring power:  buying U.S.  senators,  congressmen, governors, judges to
take control legally of the U.S.  government.   Onassis's radio message  to
Appalachia  from a remote Pennsylvania farmhouse intercepted  (reluctantly)
by  FBI's  J.  Edgar  Hoover,  on  the basis of a tip-off  from  some  Army
Intelligence guys who wern't in on the plan.

Also in 1957: Joseph Kennedy takes John F. and Jackie to see Onassis on his
yacht,  introduced John and reminds Onassis of an old Mafia  promise:   the
presidency for a Kennedy.  Onassis agrees.

1958:   Hordes  of  Mafia-selected,  purchased and supported "grass  roots"
candidates sweep into office.

1959:   Castro takes over Cuba from dictator Battista,  thereby  destroying
cozy  and lucrative Mafia gambling empire run for Onassis by Meyer  Lansky.
Castro scoops up 6$ million in Mafia casino receipts.   Onassis is furious,
V.P.  Nixon  becomes operations chief for CIA-planned Bay of Pigs invasion,
using CIA Hunt,  McCord, etc., and Cuban ex-Battista strong-arm cops (Cuban
freedom-fighters) Martinez,  Consalez,  etc., as well as winners like Frank
Sturgis (Fiorini).

1959:   Stirring  election battle between Kennedy and  Nixon.   Either  way
Onassis wins, since he has control over both candidates.

1960:   JFK elected.   American people happy.  Rose Kennedy happy.  Onassis
happy.  Mafia estatic.

Roberts  brings  his  synthetic rubies--the original  gemstones  to  Hughes
Aircraft in Los Angeles.  They steal his rubies -- the basis for Laser beam
research,  laser bombs, etc., because of the optical quality of the rubies.
One  of the eleven possible sources for one of the ingredients involved  in
the Gemstone experiment was the Golden Triangle area.    Roberts was maried
to  the daughter of the former French consul in Indochina.   In that  area,
Onassis's  involvements  in the Golden Triangle dope trade was  no  secret.
Roberts  investigation revealed the Onassis-Hughes connection,  kidnap  and
switch.   "Gemstones"--synthetic  rubies  and sapphires  with  accomplished
"histories"--gemstone papers--were sold or given away to consulun offices--
in return for information.   A world-wide information network was gradually
developed-a  trade of the intelligence activities of many countries.   This
intelligence  network  is  the source for much of the  information  in  the
Gemstone File.

January 1961:   Joseph Kennedy has a stroke,  ending his control over  John
and  Bobby.   The  boys decide to rebel against  Onassis's  control.   Why?
Inter-Mafia struggle?  Perhaps a dim hope of restoring this country to it's
mythical integrity?
     They began committing Mafia no-no's:  Arrested Wally Bird owner or Air
Thailand, who had been shipping Onassis's heroin out of the Golden Triangle
(Laos,  Cambodia,  Vietnam),  under  contract  with  the CIA  (Air  Opium):
arrested teamster Mafia Jimmy Hoffa, and put him in jail.  Declared the 73$
million in forged "Hughes" land liens, deposited with San Francisco Bank of
America,  as  "security" for the TWA judgement against Hughes,  to be  what
they are: Forgeries.

April 1961:   CIA Bay of Pigs fiasco.   Hunt, McCord, CIA Battista's Cubans
and  Mafia  angry about JFK's lack of enthusiasm.   Mafia Onassis  has  his
right-hand man "Hughes'top aid" former FBI and CIA Robert Maheu  (nicknamed
"IBM" for Iron Bob Maheu), hire and train a Mafia assassination team to get
Castro.   The  team  of a dozen or so includes John Roselli and Jimmy  (The
Weasel) Prattiano, expert Mafia hitmen, assisted by CIA Hunt and McCord and
others.  This was reported recently by Jack Anderson, who gets a lot of his
"tips"  from  his  friend,  Frank (Fiorini)  Sturgis--also  on  the  Castro
assassination  team.  The  team  tries  five  times  to  kill  Castro  with
everything  from long-range rifles to apple pie with sodium morphate in it.
Castro survives.

1963:    Members  of  the  Castro  assassination  team  arrested  at   Lake
Pontechartrain,  La.  by  Bobby Kennedy's justice boys.   Angered,  Onassis
stops  trying  to kill Castro.   He changes target and goes for  the  head:
JFK,  who,  according to Onassis,  "welched" on a Mafia deal.   JFK sets up
"Group of 40" to fight Onassis.

August 1963:   Two murders had to occur before the murder of JFK, or people
who would understand the situation and might squawk:

Senator  Estes  Kefauver;    whose  crimes  commission investigations   had
uncovered  the 1932 deal between Onassis,  Kennedy,  Eugene Meyer,  Lansky,
Roosevelt, et al.  Kefauver planned a speech on the senate floor denouncing
Mafia operations;  instead,  he ate a piece of apple pie laced with  sodium
morphate  (used  in rat poison),  and had a sodium-morphate-induced  "heart
attack" on the Senate floor.

Phillip  Graham:   Editor  of the Washington  Post.   Phillip  had  married
Katherine Meyer,  Eugene Meyer's daughter, who had inherited the Washington
Post  and  allied media empire.   Graham put together  the  Kennedy-Johnson
ticket and was Kennedy's friend in the struggle with Onassis.  According to
Gemstone,  Katherine Meyer Graham bribed some psychiatrists to certify that
Phil  was insane.   He was allowed out of the nuthouse for the weekend  and
died of a shotgun wound in the head in the Graham home in Washington; death
ruled "suicide".

November 1,  1963:  The hit on JFK was supposed to take place in true Mafia
style: a triple execution, together with Diem and Nhu in Vietnam.  Diem and
Nhu got theirs,  as scheduled.   Onassis had invited Jackie for a cruise on
the Christina,  where she was when JFK got tipped off that big "O"  planned
to  wipe him out.   JFK called Jackie on the yacht,  from the White  House,
hysterical:  "Get  off  that yacht if you have to swim"' and cancelled  his
appearance  at  a  football  stadium  in  Chicago,   where  this  CIA-Mafia
assassination  team  was  poised for the kill.   Jackie  stayed  on  board,
descended the gangplank a few days later on Onassis's arm,  in  Turkey,  to
impress  the Bey,  Mustapha.   Madame Nhu,  in the U.S.  bitterly  remarked
whatever has happened in Vietnam.

One  of  the assassination teams was picked up in Chicago with a rifle  and
quickly  released by the police.   Three weeks later the Mafia's  alternate
and   carefully  arranged  execution  plan  went  into  effect:   JFK   was
assassinated in Dallas.   A witness who recognised pictures of some of  the
people  arrested  in  Dealey Plaza as having been in  Chicago  three  weeks
earlier told Black Panthers Hampton and Clark.

The  JFK murder:  Onassis-Hughes' man Robert Maheu reassigned the Mafia-CIA
Castro  assassination  team to the murder of JFK adding  Eugene  Brading  a
third  Mafia hitman from the Denver Mafia Amaldones "family".   Two  months
earlier  Brading  on  parole  after a series of crimes applied  for  a  new
driver's  license explaining to the California DMV that he had  decided  to
change  his  name to Jim Brading.   Brading got his California  parole  the
first  time to look things over and the second time when JFK was  scheduled
for his Dallas trip.

Lee  Harvey Oswald CIA with carefully planned links to both the ultra right
and  to  the Communists was designated as the patsy.   He was  supposed  to
shoot Governor Connally and he did.

Each of the four shooters,  Oswald,  Brading,  Frattiano and Roselli had  a
timer  and a back up man.   Back up men were supposed to pick up the  spent
shells  and  get rid of the guns.   Timers would give the signal to  shoot.
Hunt and McCord were there to help.  Sturgis was in Miami.

Frattiano  shot from a second story window in the Dal-Tex  building  across
the  street  from the Texas School Book Depository.   He apparently used  a
handgun-he is an excellent shot with a pistol.   Frattiano and his  back-up
man were "arrested",  driven away from the Dal-Tex building in a police car
and  released (without being booked).   The Dallas police office is in  the
Dal-Tex building.

Roselli  shot  Kennedy once hitting the right side of his head and  blowing
his  brains out with a rifle from behind a fence in the grassy knoll  area.
Roselli and his timer went down a manhole behind the fence and followed the
sewer line away from Dealey Plaza.

The  third point of the triangulated ambush was supplied by Eugene  Brading
shooting from Kennedy's left fram a small pagoda at Dealy Plaza across  the
street  from  the  grassy knoll.   (Brading missed  because  Roselli's  and
Frattiano shot had just hit Kennedy in the head from the right and the rear
nearly  simultaneously).   Brading's shot hit the curb and ricocheted  off.
Brading was photographed on the scene stuffing his gun under his coat.   He
wore  a  big leather hat,  its hatband marked with large  conspicuous  X's.
(Police  had been instructed to let anyone with an X-marked hatband through
the  police  lines.   Some may have been told they  were  Secret  Service).
After his shot,  Brading ditched his gun with his back-up man and walked up
the  street  toward the Dal-Tex building.   Sheriff rushed up  to  Brading,
assuming  he was "Secret Service" and told him he had just seen a man  come
out  of the Book Depository and jumped into a station wagon.   Brading  was
uninterested.   Brading  walked into the Dal-Tex building to "make a  phone
call".   There  he was arrested by another deputy sheriff,  showed his "Jim
Braden" driver's license and was released without being booked.

Oswald shot Connally twice from the Texas School Book Depository.  He split
from the front door.  His back-up man was supposed to take the rifle out of
the building (or so Oswald thought); instead he "hid" it behind some boxes,
where it would be found later.

Three  men dressed as tramps picked up the spent shells from Dealey  Plaza.
One was Howard Hunt.   Then they drifted over to an empty boxcar sitting on
the  railway  spur behind the grassey knoll area,  and  waited.   A  Dallas
police  officer ordered two Dallas cops to "go over to the boxcar and  pick
up  the  tramps".   The three 'trmps' paraded around Dealey  Plaza  to  the
Police Department in the Dal-Tex Building.   They were held there until the
alarm  went out to pick up Oswald;  then they were released,  without being
booked.   In all, ten men were arrested immediately after the shooting; all
were  released  soon  after;  none were booked;  not  a  word  about  their
existance is mentioned in the Warren Report.
FILE #2 OF 4 FOR THIS DOCUMENT

Regarding  Lee Harvey Oswald:  Officer Tippitt was dispatched in his police
radio  car  to  the Oak Cliff Section,  where Oswald  had  rented  a  room.
Tippett  may have met Oswald on the street.   He may have been supposed  to
kill Oswald,  but something went wrong.   Tippett was shot by two men using
revolvers.  The "witness", Domingo Benavides, who used Tippitt's police car
radio  to report "we've had a shooting here",  may have been one of the men
who shot him.  (A Domingo Benavides" appeares in connection with the Martin
Luther King shooting also.)
     Oswald  went to the movies.   A "shoe store manager" told the  theatre
cashier  that  a  suspicious looking man had  sneaked  in  without  paying.
Fifteen  assorted cops and FBI charged out to the movie theatre to look for
the guy who had sneaked in.
     Oswald had a pistol that wouldn't fire.   It may have been anticipated
that the police would shoot the "cop-killer" for "resisting  arrest".   But
since  that didn't happen,  the Dallas police brought Oswald out for small-
time Mafia Jack Ruby to kill two days later.

     Brading  stayed at the Teamster-Mafia-Hoffa-financed "Cuban Hotel"  in
Dallas.   Ruby had gone to the Cabana the night before the murder, says the
Warren  Report.   The  rest,  as they say,  is  history.   Onassis  was  so
confident of his control over police,  media,  FBI, CIA, Secret Service and
the  U.S.  Judicial System that he had JFK murdered before the eyes of  the
entire nation;  then systematically bought off,  killed off,  or frightened
off  all witnesses and had the evidence destroyed;  then put a 75 year seal
of  secrecy over the entire matter.   Cover up participants included  among
many:  Gerald  Ford on the Warren Commision (a Nixon  recommendation):  CIA
attorney Leon Jaworski,  of the CIA front Anderson Foundation, representing
Texas  before  the Commission to see that the fair name of  Texas  was  not
besmirched  by  the  investigation;   CIA-Dallas  Chief  John  McCone,  his
assistant; Richard Helms; and a passle of police, FBI, news media, etc.

WHERE ARE THEY NOW?

Johnny Roselli received part of his pay off for the head shot on JFK in the
form  of  a $250,000 "finder's fee for bringing "Hughes" (Onassis)  to  Las
Vegas in 1967.
     Jimmy  Frattiano's pay-off included $109,000 in "non-repayable loans",
from the S.F.  National Bank (President: Joe Alioto).  Credit authorization
for the series of loans from 1961 to 1965,  came from Joe Alioto and a high
Teamster official.  Dun and Bradstreet noted this transaction in amazement,
listing  how  Frattiano could explain so much "credit" as  his  only  known
title  (listed in D&B) was "Mafia-Executioner".   Frattiano went around for
years  bragging  about  it:   "Hi  there,   I'm  Jimmy   Frattiano,   Mafia
Executioner...."  A bank V.P.  told the whole story to the California Crime
Commission,  where  Al  Harris,  who later shot off his mouth a little  too
much--"Heart attacked".
     When  last seen March,  1975,  Frattiano was testifying before a  S.F.
Grand  Jury  in regard to his participation,  with East  Coast  Mafia  Tony
Romane, in the Sunol Golf Course swindle (which cost S.F. somewhere between
$100,000  in  "non-repayable  loans"  to start a trucking  company  in  the
Imperial Valley,  where he engaged in a lot more swindling--involving  U.S.
Government member explained, "The Mafia is doing business directly with the
U.S. Government now".
     Brading  was  questioned  by the FBI two months after his  arrest  and
released  in  Dallas as part of the Warren  Commission's  determination  to
"leave  no  stone  unturned"  in  its quest for the  truth  about  the  JKF
assassination.  In spite of the fact that Brading was a known criminal with
an  arrest  record dating back about twenty years,  the FBI  reported  that
Brading knew nothing whatsoever about the assassination.
     Brading  became a charter member of the La Costa Country  Club,  Mafia
heaven down near San Clemente.   He also became a runner for the skim money
from the Onassis "Hughes" Las Vegas casinos to Onassis' Swiss Banks.

GERALD  FORD;  of  the  Warren Commission went on to  become  President  by
appointment  of  Nixon,  then in danger of even further  and  more  serious
exposure--from  which  position  of trust Ford  pardoned  Nixon  one  month
later, for "any and all crimes he may have committed."  That covers quite a
lot but Ford is good at covering things up.
McCONE; the head of CIA-Dallas, went on to become a member of the ITT Board
of Directors sitting right next to Francis L. Dale, the head of CREEP.

RICHARD HELMS;  McCone's assistant at Dallas,  ultimately has been rewarded
with the post of CIA Director.

LEON  JOWARSKI;  CIA Attorney,  became the Watergate Prosecuter,  replacing
Cox,  who was getting too warm.  Jowarski turned in a startling performance
in our "government-as-theatre" the honest,  conscientious investigator  who
"uncovered"  not  a bit more than he had to and managed to steer  everybody
away from the underlying truth.

Dr.  "RED" DUKE;  the man who dug two bullets out of Connelly and saved his
life was shipped off to a hospital in Afghanistan by a grateful CIA.

JIM GARRISON;  New Orleans D.A. who tried to get Eugene Brading out of L.A.
(but used one of Brading's other aliases,  Eugene Bradley, by mistake), had
his witnesses shot out from under him, and was framed on charges of bribery
and extortion.   FBI officers "confiscated" photos of Brading taken on  the
scene, etc.

After JKF's death,  Onassis quickly established control over Lyndon Johnson
through fear.   On the trip back to Washington, Johnson was warned by radio
relayed from an air force base; "There was no conspiracy, Oswald was a lone
nut assassin.   Get it Lyndon?  Otherwise, Air Force might have unfortunate
accident on flight back to Washington."
     Onassis  filled all important government posts with his own men.   All
government agencies became means to accomplish an end:  rifle the  American
Treasury,  steal  as  much  as  possible,  keep  the  people  confused  and
disorganized  and leaderless;  persuade world domination.   JFK's  original
"Group  of 40" was turned over to Rockefeller and his  man,  Kissinger,  so
that  they could more effectively take over South America (Onassis was  one
of  the  first to console Jackie when she got back from Dallas  with  JFK's
body.)  Silva, a S.F. private detective hired by Angelina Alioto to get the
goods  on philandering Joe,  followed Joe Alioto to Vacaville,  to the  Nut
Tree  Restaurant,  where  Joe held a private meeting with other Mafioso  to
arrange the details of the JFK assassination pay off to Frattiano.

1967:   Onassis  has  always  enjoyed the fast piles of money  to  be  made
through  gambling  (in Manaco,  in the 50's and in  Cuba  under  Battista).
Onassis  took  over  Las  Vegas in 1967,  via  the  "Hughes"  cover.   U.S.
Governmet officials explained that it was alright because "at least  Hughes
isn't the Mafia."
     Mafia  Joe  Alioto  had  Preseidential ambitions,  shored  up  by  his
participation  in the Dallas pay-off.   Everyone who helped kill JKF got  a
piece of the U.S.  pie.   But J.  Edgar Hoover, FBI head, blew his cover by
releasing  some of the raw FBI files on Alioto at the  Democratic  National
Convention.  Joe was out of the running for V.P. and Humphrey had to settle
for  Muskie.   Humphry  planned to come to S.F.  for a  final  pre-election
rally, sparked by Joe Alioto.  Roberts threatened to blow the hit-run story
plus its Mafia ramifications open if Humphrey came to S.F.  Humphrey didn't
come; Humphrey lost in San Francisci, California and the election.

October  1968:   Jackie  Kennedy was now "free" to marry Onassis.   An  old
Mafia rule: if someone welches on a deal, kill him and take his gun and his
girl: in this case, Jackie and the Pentagon.

July,  1969:   Mary Jo Kopechne, devoted JFK girl, and later one of Bobby's
trusted  aides,   was  in  charge  of  packing  up  his  files  after   his
assassination  in L.A.  She read too much,  learned about the Kennedy Mafia
involvement and other things.   She said to friends:  "This isn't  Camelot,
this is murder."  She was an idealistic American Catholic.  She didn't like
murdering  hypocrites.   She died trying to get off Chappaquiddick  Island,
where  she  had overheard (alonf with everyone else in the  cottage)  Teddy
Kennedy's end of the D.H. Lawrence cottage telephone calls from John Tunney
and  to Joe Alioto,  and Democrat bigwigs Swig,  Shorenstein,  Schumann and
Bechtel.   Teddy's good friend John Tunney called to complain that Alioto's
friend Cycil Magnin and others had tried to bribe Jess Unruh to switch from
the  Governor's race to run for the Senate for the seat John Tunney  wanted
so that Alioto would have an easier run for Governor.  Teddy called Alioto,
who told him to go to hell;  then Teddy called the rest to arrange for  yet
another Mafia murder.  Mary Jo, up to there with Mafia ran screaming out of
the cottage on her way to Nader.  Drunken Teddy offered to drive her to the
ferry.   Trying  to  get away from curious Sheriff look,  Teddy  sped  offf
toward  the  Bridge,  busted Mary Jo's nose when she tried to grab his  arm
from  the back seat,  and bailed out of the car as it went off the  bridge.
Mary Jo with a busted nose,  breathed in an air bubble in the car for  more
than two hours waiting for help, while Teddy, assuming she was dead, to set
up  an alibi.   Mary Jo finally suffocated in the air bubble,  diluted with
carbon  dioxide.   It  took her 2 hours and 37 minutes to  suffocate  while
Teddy  called  Jackie  and Onassis on  the  Christina.   Teddy  also  clled
Katherine Meyer Graham,  lawyers,  etc.   Jackie called the Pope on Teddy's
behalf, who assigned Cardinal Cushing to help.  The next morning, the first
person Teddy tried to call after deciding he'd have to take the rap himself
was a lawyer,  Burke Marshall,  Onassis's friend in the U.S. Liberty shipps
deal back in the forties and also the designated custodian for JFK's brains
after Dallas (the brains have since disappeared).
     Cover-up   of   the  Chappaquiddick  murder  required  the   help   of
Massachusetts  Highway Patrol,  which "confiscated" the plates from Teddy's
car  after it was fished out of the pond:  the  Massachusetts  Legislature,
which  changed  a 150 year old law requiring an autopsy (which  would  have
revealed the suffocation and broken nose); Coroner Mills, who let Kennedy's
aide K. Dun Grifford, supply him with a death certificate, already prepared
for  Hill's signature,  listing cause of death as drowning:   Police  Chief
Arenas:  Cardinal  Cushing's  priest  who appeared  before  the  Kopechne's
"direct  from God" with personal instructions from Him that Mary Jo was not
to  be disturbed;  a Pennsylvania mortuary where Mary Jo's broken nose  was
patched up, East and West phone companies, whiched clamped maximum security
on the records of calls to and from the cottage.   S.F. Police Chief Cahill
was  reassigned to a new job;  Security Chief for Pacific  Telephone.   The
U.S. Senate, who never said a word about Teddy's (required equipment) plug-
in  phone;  the  judge who presided over the mock  hearing;  James  Feston,
editor of Martha's vineyard's only newspaper,  who never heard a word about
Teddy's  phone  at  the cottage,  though residents called in  to  tell  the
newspaper; the New York Times, Washington Post, etc.
     John Tunney's sister, Joan, heard her brother's end of the phone call,
made  from her house in Tiburon,  to the Chappaquiddick cottage.   The next
day,  after Mary Jo died,  Joan ran away to Norway, where she was kidnapped
by  Mafia hoods Mari and Adamo.   They locked her up in a Marseille  heroin
factory.  Joan's husband complained so she chopped his head off with an ax,
and  was subsequently locked up in a nuthouse belonging to the Marquess  of
Blandford, then Tina Livanos Onassis' husband.
     Mari  and  Adamo  got pressed into scrap metal in a  New  Jersey  auto
junkyard.
     In  the panic of trying to cover up Teddy's quilt  at  Chappaquiddick,
many  things came unglued.   The JFK murder threatened to creep out of  the
woodwork again; Black Panthers Hampton and Clark were murdered (the Chicago
cops  fired  over Attorney Charles Garry's because of what they knew  about
the JFK murder squad's presence at Chicago on November 1,1963.

September 1969:   "Gemstones", with histories, had been released around the
globe for several years.   In 1969, Roberts gave a Gemstone with history to
Mack,  head  of California CREEP,  for Nixon,  with  the  proposition:  the
Presidency  in  return for wiping out the Mafia.   The  "history"  included
Teddy's  phone  calls  to and from the Lawrence Cottage  on  Chappaquiddick
billed to Teddy's home phone in Havannisport.   Nixon being Mafia  himself,
wasn't  interested;  but  kept the information to use on Teddy whenever  it
seemed advantageous.

May  4,  1970:   Charlotte  Ford Niarchos called  her  ex-husband  Stavros,
worried  about  the  Ford Foundation's involvement  in  the  Chappaquiddick
cover-up.  Eugenie Livanos Niarchos, in bed with her husband, overheard the
conversation.   Stavros  was forced to beat her to death;  he ruptured  her
spleen and broke the cartilage in her throat.  Cause of death was listed as
"overdose of barbituates," though autopsy showed these injuries.

NOTE:   L. Wayne Rector was hired around 1955 by the Carl Byoir P.R. Agency
(Hughes  L.A.  P.R.  firm) to act as Hughes double.   In 1957 when  Onassis
grabbed  Hughes,  Rector continued to act as his stand-in.   Rector was the
Hughes surrogate in Las Vegas;  Robert Maheu actually ran the  show;  Maheu
got  his  orders from Onassis;  the six "nursemaids",  called  the  "Mormon
Mafia", kept Rector sealed off from prying eyes.

June 17,  1969:   Bobby Kennedy knew who killed his brother; he wrote about
it in his unpublished book,  The Enemy Within.   When he foolishly tried to
run for President, Onassis had offed, usinf=g a sophisticated new technique
hypnotized  Sirhan,  Sirhan shooting from the front "security guard"  (from
Lockheed  Aircraft).   Thane  Cesar shooting from two or three inches  away
from  Bobby's  head from the rear.   Sirhan's  shots  all  missed.   Evelle
Younger,  then the L.A.  District Attorney, coverer it all up including the
squawks of the L.A.  Coroner Thomas Noguchi.  Younger was rewarded with the
post of California Attorney General later.   His son,  Eric Younger,  got a
second generation Mafia reward;  a judge-ship at age 30.  (See Ted Charach,
L.A.  author  and director,  The Second Gun,  a documentary film on the RFK
murder, bought and suppressed by Warner Brothers for more details).
     After Bobby's death,  Teddy knew who did it.  He ran to Onassis afraid
for his life and swore eternal obedience.   In return,  Onassis granted him
his life and said he could be President, too, just like his big brother, if
he would behave himself and folow orders.

September 16,  1968:   Hit and run accident on Robert's car parked in front
of the Russian consulate on S.F. who routinely takes pictures of everything
that  goes on in front of the consulate.   Their photos showed the  license
plate  of  the hit and run car UKT-264,  on a blue  Cadillac  belonging  to
Angela Alioto,  Joe's daughter, being driven by Tom Alioto, Joe's son whose
driving  license had been revoked.   His license and the cars license  were
both fraudulent.   To cover up the hit and run circumstances,  B.F.   MPJ's
from  the Presido quickly staged a few more hit and runs on the same corner
all  duly filmed by the Russians.   Katheryn Hollister,  the Alioto  family
nurse  was  "persuaded"  to take the rap for  the  hit  and  run.   Roberts
threatened to spill the whole story in court with photos.
     Next  evening Brading and Frattiano showed up in the Balck Magic  Bar,
Brading  wearing  his  x-marked  hat from Dallas  to  see  whether  Roberts
recognized it, how much he knew, etc.  A S.F. MP from the Presidio piped up
from the end of the bar, "Iheard they let everyone with an X-marked hatband
through the police lines at Dallas".
     Cover up support for Alioto in the hit and run was completed.

End  of  1970:   Howard Hughes presence on earth no longer  required.   His
handwritting  could  be duplicated by a computer.   His biography  all  the
known  facts about his life had been compiled and a computerized  biography
issued  to  top Hughes executives.   His double - Rector - had  been  doing
"Hughes" for years.  And Hughes was ill.
     Clifford  Irving,   author  of  Hoax,  about  an  art  forger,  became
interested  in  "Hughes".   Living on Ibazza,  he heard  the  Mediterranean
gossip  that  "Hughes" was a hoax,  too.   He went  to  "Hughes"  so-called
"Mormon Mafia",  the six nursemaids for information.  One of them, Merryman
perhaps,  tired of the game,  gave Irving the computerized Hughes biography
and from it Irving wrote his "autobiography".
     Hughes'  death was expected shortly.   Preparations were being made so
that it would not interfere with the orderly continuation of his empire.
     Irving  wrote his book and the publishers anounced it.   Onassis  knew
someone  had  given Irving the information.   He thought it was  Maheu  and
fired him in November,  1970.   On Thanksgiving Eve, 1970, in the middle of
the  night "Hughes" (Rector made a well-publicized "secret departure"  from
Las Vegas to the Bahamas).

December  1970:   Onassis discovered his mistake and had  Merryman  killed.
Robert  Maheu  accidentally  deprived of his  half-million  dollars  annual
salary,  sued  "Hughes" for millions mentioning "Hughes" game plan for  the
purchase of Presidents, governors, Senators, judges, etc.  Onassis paid off
cheap  at  the price to maintain his custodianship of "American  democracy"
and the "free world" and keep from hanging for multiple murders.
     The "Hughes" Mormon Mafia party,  plus Rector,  fled around the  world
from  the Bahamas where they murdered an uncooperative Governor and  Police
Chief,  to Nicaragua,  where they shot the U.S. Ambassador between the eyes
for noticing that there wasn't really any Hughes; and then to Canada, where
Mormon  Mafia  nursemaid Sckersley looted a goodly sum in a swindle of  the
Canadian Stock Exchange; and on to London to Rothschild's Inn of the Park.
File #3 of 4 for this document.

April 18,  1971:  Howard Hughes, a human vegetable as the result of serious
brain  damage during his 1957 hustle,  plus fourteen years of heroin,  grew
sicker and sicker.   A final overdose of heroin did him in.  His coffin was
lowered  into  the  sea from a rocky headland off the  coast  of  Skorpios.
Present at the funeral were: Jackie Kennedy Onassis, Teddy Kennedy, Francis
L.  Dale,  Director of CREEP,  and a South Vietnamese cardinal named  Thue.
Onassis  allowed some pictures to be taken from a distance;  he himself did
not appear.  The pictures were published in Midnight, a Canadian tabloid.
     Albanian  frogmen,  tipped off,  were waiting under the  water.   They
siezed  the coffin and took the corpse off to Yugoslavia,  then  to  China,
Russia  and then perhaps to Boston in a foot locker.   The corpse's  dental
work was compared to Hughes very own dental records and they matched.  News
of  Hughes death,  the U.S.  take-over by Onassis and the facts surrounding
the murders of JFK,  RFK,  Martin Luther King,  Mary Jo Kopechne,  and many
more  and the subsequent cover-ups (involving still more murders) had  been
circulating  around  the globe for several years.   Any country  with  this
information  can blackmail the U.S> Mafia government,  which has no  choice
but to pay up.   The alternative is to be exposed as a bunch of  treasonous
murderers.   This  is  why  China-hating,  red-hating Nixon was  forced  to
recognize China (which he now claims as his greatest accomplishment).   And
this  is also why the USSR walks off with such good deals  in  U.S.  loans,
grains  and whatever elst it wants.   All they have to do is mention  those
magic  words  - 'Hughes,  JFK,  RFK,  MLK,  Mary Jo - and  the  U.S.  Mafia
government crawls into a hole.   Information once leaked can't be unleaked.
The  only way to end the delema is through a nuclear war and that  wouldn't
be one-sided.   The other way would be to throw the Mafia out of the United
States.   Starting at the top with Ford, Rockefeller and Kissinger.  Super-
patriots  please  note:  No one,  not all of the radicals  and  subversives
hounded  by the US domestic intelligence put together has done one fraction
of the damage done to US economy,  morality,  power and prestige as by  the
theives at the top.
     On the day that Hughes was buried,  Clifford Irving's wife presented a
publisher's  check  mode  out to "H.  Hughes" to Onassis'  Swiss  Bank  for
payment.  Onassis paid off cheaply at the price.
     Gemstone  papers  rolling  around the world here and abroad  kept  the
situation hot.   Everyone was nervous.   Rockefeller gave Kissinger $50,000
for  Carlson and Brisson to write their 'expose' The Alioto Mafia  Web  for
LOOK magazine.   Their mission:  find out everything that was public record
about  Alioto's  connection with the JFK murder.   There was a  pay-off  to
Frattiano, listed in D&B.  They were to explain it any way that didn't lead
back  to Dallas.   The idea was to get Alioto to quietly go away but  still
keep the lid on everything.

May,  1971:   Tina Livanos Onassis Blandford married Starvon Niarchos,  her
former brother-in-law until he killed her sister, Eugenie.

May,  1971:  "Folk  Hero" Daniel Ellsberg,  a well-known hawk from the Rand
Corporation,  who  had designed the missile ring around the "Iron  Curtain"
countries  (how many missiles to aim at which cities) was told  to  release
the  faked-up "Pentagon Papers" to help distract people from  Hughes,  JFK,
RFK, MLK etc.  The papers were carefully designed by Ellsberg and his boss,
Rand Chief and new World Bank Chief Bob (Body Count) McNamara,  to make the
Vietnamese  War  look  like "just one of those incredibly  dumb  mistakes".
This helped to cover up the real purpose of the war: continued control, for
Onassis and his friends of the Golden Triangle dope  trade:  Vietnam,  Laos
and Cambodia; and for Onassis and the oil people of Eastern oil sources, to
say nothing of control over huge Federal sums,  which could be siphoned off
in  profitable  arms  contracts,  or conveniently 'disappear'  in  the  war
effort.
     McNamara's  'World  Bank' handing-out of American money  to  'starving
nations'  actually set up huge private bank accounts for various  dictators
in the Onassis-controlled Swiss bank.  The money could be used as needed to
support  and extend Mafia operations.   Example:  $8 billion in World  Bank
funds  for  'starving  Ethiopians'  wound up in  Emperor  Haile  Selassie's
personal  accounts  in the Swiss bank.   This would make  him  the  richest
individual in the world,  but other dictators have Swiss bank accounts too.
Perhaps  they  are even larger.   The money drained from America and  other
captive Mafia nations feeds a greed that can never be satisfied.

Rand Corp.,  one of our major 'think tanks' has another goody in store  for
the  public:   "Project Star" - Rand's cover-up fallback version of the JFK
murder  held  in  reserve  should  public  restlessness  over  the   Warren
Commission Report cover-up ever threaten to get out of hand.  That ought to
confuse the people for at least another twelve years, and by that time most
of us will be dead anyway....

NOTE IN PASSING:   The dope trade routes are:  Golden Triangle to Taiwan to
San Francisco.  Heroin from the Golden Triangle was sometimes smuggled into
San  Francisco in the bodies of American GIs who died in battle in Vietnam.
One  body  can hold up to 40 pounds of heroin,  crammed in where  the  guts
would be.
     Some  dope  gets pressed into dinner plates and  painted  with  pretty
patterns.   One dope bust in S.F. alone yielded $6 billion in herion 'china
plates' - the largest dope bust in history.   It was quickly and completely
hushed  up  by the S.F.-Mafia press.   The dope sat in the S.F.P.D.  for  a
while, then was removed by FBI men and probably sent on its way to American
veins.   All this dope processing and shipping is controlled and supervised
by  the  Mafia  for  the Mafia.   Dope arrests and  murders  are  aimed  at
independant  pushers and maverick peddlers and smugglers who are  competing
with  or holding out on the Mafia.   While Nixon was conducting  his  noisy
campaign  against  dope  smuggling accross the  Mexican  border,  his  dope
officer in charge of protecting the Mafia dope trade was E. Howard Hunt!
     Lots  of  heroin gets processed in a Pepsi Cola factory in  Laos.   So
far, it hasn't produced a single bottle of Pepsi Cola.
     Some  dope gets processed in heroin factories in Marseilles.  (See the
French Connection).
     Still  more dope comes from South America --- cocaine and new  heroin.
US aid went to build a highway accross Paraguay.   Useless for the  natives
who have no cars.   (They use it for sunbathing in the day), it becomes the
longest  landing  strip  in  the world and  serves  airplanes  loaded  with
cocaine.   It  is  financed  by  US  tax  money  for  the  benifit  of  the
international Mafia dope pushers.
     And then there is opium from Turkish morphine.   This was the starting
point of Onassis' fortune.

     In case one is still wondering whether the Mafia can actually get away
with such things,  consider the benifits derived from controlling the stock
market,  the  courts,  the police,  etc.   In one swindle alone;  the  1070
acquisition  by "Hughes" of "Air West",  which involved swindling Air  West
stockholders of $45 million.  Recently indicted for this swindle by the SEC
in  a  civil suit were "Howard Hughes" and Jimmy (the  Greek)  Snyder,  not
usually associated with the Hughes crowd, and others.

June  1971:   Ney  York Times began publishing the  Pentagon  Papers,  Rand
Corp's prepared cover-up of the real reasons for the Vietnamese war.
     Nixon had gotten a copy of the first Gemstone Papers circulated in the
U.S.  back  in 1969.   He was now wondering how much information Democratic
Chairman Larry O'Brien had about Hughes,  Onassis,  JFK, RFK, etc. and more
specifically how much of the dirt the Democrats planned to use.
     Nixon set up the "plumbers unit" to stop security  leaks,  investigate
other security matters.   Erlichman,  Krogh, Liddy, Hunt, Young, etc.  Hunt
as  "White  House consultant" supposedly worked for the Mullen Corp.  a  CIA
cover.   Mullen's  head client was "Howard Hughes" Robert Bennett  was  the
head of the Mullen Corp.

June 28, 1971:  Ellsberg indicted for leaking the Pentagon Papers.

September  3,  1971:   The  Watergate team broke into  Ellsberg's  docter's
(Fielding's)  office to get Ellsberg's psychiatric records.   Team  members
CIA Hunt and Liddy,  Cuban "Freedom fighters" De Denio,  Martinez,  Bernard
Barker.  All except Liddy had worked together back at the Bay of Pigs.

Question:   Why  the intense battle between Mafia forces?   Answer:   While
Onassis  was  the  recognized  crowned  head  of  the  Mafia,  intense,  no
holdsbarred  scuffling  for  the lucrative second  spot  (control  of  U.S.
Presidency,  government and so on) was permissible and encouraged under the
Mafia  code of rules.   The only stipulation:  Outsiders mustn't know about
it.   "Hughes"  contributed  liberally and equally to both  Democratic  and
Republican parties for the 1972 election.   The winner would get even  more
for "Hughes".

September  23,   1971:   E.  Howard  Hunt  spliced  up  the  phoney  cables
implicating JFK's administration in the Diem assassination.

October,  1971:   Look magazine apologized to Alioto for their Alioto Mafia
Web  article and folded.   The sticking point:  thy couldn't prove Alioto's
Mafia Nut Tree meeting back in 1963 re: the JKF murder.

November, 1971:   Alioto re-elected S.F. mayor.

December,  1971:   Robets  applied  for a "Gemstone" visi from the  Russian
Consulate on a tapped phone.   Phone was tapped by Hal Lipset, S.F. private
investigator,  who  worked  for  Katherine Meyer  Graham  and  others,  and
routinely monitored Consulate phone calls.

January,  1972:   The  Watergate team showed up at the San Francisco  Drift
Inn,  a CIA-FBI safe-house hangout bar,  where Roberts conducted a  nightly
Gemstone  rap  for the benifit of any CIA or FBI or anyone who wandered  in
for  a beer.   James McCord,  Martinez,  Bernard Barker,  Garcia and  Frank
Sturgis showed up - along with a San Francisco dentist named Fuller.  James
McCord  remarked:  "Sand and Arab oil with hydrogen heat makes glass  brick
threat  of war to Arab nations".   The event,  like the other nightly raps,
was taped by the Drift Inn bartender,  Al Stern,  who was paid to do so  by
his old friend, Katherine Graham, but told his other friend, Roberts, about
it.  The bar was also wired for sound by Arabs, Russians and Chinese.

January 27,  1972:   Liddy and Dean met in Mitchell's office,  with Liddy's
charts for his $1 million "plan" for spying,  kidnapping,  etc.   The plans
included breaking into Hank Greenspun's Las Vegas office safe,  in hopes of
recovering  Greenspun's file:  on the Hughes kidnapping and Onassis's Vegas
operations,  which Greenspun had successfully used to blackmail Onassis out
of $4 million or so.   A "Hughes" get away plane would stand by to take the
White House burglers to Mexico.

February,  1972:   Liddy and Hunt traveled around a lot, using "Hughes Tool
Co." calling cards, and aliases from Hunt's spy novels.

Liddy,  Hunt and other Watergaters dropped by for a beer at the Drift  Inn,
where  they  were photographed on bar stools for Katherine  Graham.   These
photos were later used in the Washington Post,  when Liddy, Hunt and others
were  arrested  at  Watergate because CIA men like Liddy  and  Hunt  aren't
usually photographed.
     Roberts  quoted to Liddy "the Chinese stock market in cars" the  price
on  Onassis's head by the ear in retaliation for a few things  Onassis  had
done;  on  Wayne  Rector,  the  Hughes  double;  Eugene  Wyman,  California
Democratic  Party  Chairman  and Mafia JFK pay off bagman;  and  on  Lyndon
Johnson "four bodies twisting in the breeze".

     Robert's quoting prices to Liddy at the Drift Inn made their deaths  a
mortal  cinch.   Liddy's  like that and that's why the murdering  slob  was
picked by the Mafia.
     "Gemstones"  rolling around the Drift Inn in February inspired Liddy's
Gemstone plan that became Watergate.

February,  1972:  Francis L. Dale, head of CREEP and ITT Board of Directors
member, pushed Magruder to push Liddy into Watergate.
     In a Mafia-style effort to shut Roberts up, his father was murdered by
"plumbers"  team members Liz Dale (Francic L.  Dale's  ex-wife),  Martinez,
Gonzalez,  Barker; in Hahnemann's hospital, S.F. where Mr. Roberts had been
take  after swallowing a sodium morphate "pill" slipped into  his  medicine
bottle  at  home by Watergate locksmith (Miami's "Missing  Link"  locksmith
shop)  Gonzales.   The pill didn't kill him.   He had a weak digestion  and
vomitted enough of the sodium morphate up (it burned his lips and tongue on
the  way  out)  but  he had emphyxema and went to  the  hospital.   In  the
hospital,  "nurse"  Liz  Dale and "doctor" Martinez assisted him  to  sniff
a  quadruple-strength can of aerosol medicine enough to kill him  the  next
day.
     The  day before,  Tisseront,  head of the College of Cardinals at  the
Vatican,  was  pushed out of a Vatican window.   Tisseront had followed the
career  of the present Pope,  Montini (whose mother was  Jewish).   Montini
sodium-morphate  murdered Pope Pius XI;  was banished from Rome for  it  by
Pius  XII;  became Pope in 1963.   Tisseront wrote it all down;  called the
Pope "The Deputy of Christ at Auschwitz", and the fulfillment of the Fatima
3  Phophecy:  that  "The anti-Christ shall rise to become the head  of  the
Church".   Tisseront  also  wrote about all the suppressed secrets  of  the
Roman Catholic Church: i.e. that Jesus Christ was an Arab, born April 16, 6
B.C.  at  the  rare  conjunction of Saturn  and  Jupiter.   Arab  (Persian)
astronomers  (the Magi) came to Bethlehem to look for their king,  an  Arab
baby and found him in a stable,  because the Jews wouldn't let Arabs Joseph
and Mary into their nice clean inns,  even then.  When Jesus overturned the
tables of the money lenders at the Temple, the Jews had the Romans nail him
to a cross.   He died on the cross when the Roman soldiers stuck a spear in
his side,  pulled out his liver, and ate it.  Tacitus, the Roman historian,
described it all in a chunk of history deleted by the Church.   Nero burned
Rome  but that didn't stop the spreading of Moses' teachings by  the  early
Christians, (Arabs).  So the Romans decided to adopt the religion, clean it
up,  make Christ a Jew and Mary a virgin,  and work out a chruch state deal
to  fool the people in the name of God and country that had been  operating
ever  since.   Around  311  A.D.  at the Council of  Nicasa  the  Christian
Orthodoxy  was established;  a dissenting bishop had his hands chopped off;
another bishop was assigned to round up all the old copies of the Bible and
destroy  them in favor of the "revised" de-Arabized  version.   Cleaned  up
Mathew,  Mark  Luke  and John were declared "it",  the other  Gospels  were
declared Apocryphal,  and heretical.   Roman Emperor Constantine became the
first "Christian" emperor.
     Later  during  the  holy  crusades the Bible was  again  rewritten  to
include Jesus' warning against the "yellow race".

"27 Gemstones,  with histories,  to 27 countries brought Red China into the
U.N. and threw Taiwan out.

April,  1972:  Money pours into CREEP: "Gulf Resources and Chemicals Corp.,
Houston,  Texas"  countributes $100,000;  illegal laundered through Mexico,
comes back through Liedtke of Pennzoil Corp.,  Houston.  Robert Vesco gives
Maurice Stans $200,000 "campaign contributions",  etc.   Liddy gives McCord
$76,000.  McCord buys $58,000 worth of bugging equipment, cameras, etc.
This is file #4 of 4 for this document.

May,  1972:   J.  Edgar Hoover had the Gemstone File:  threatened to expose
Dallas-JFK in an "anonymous" book,  The Texas Mafia.   Instead, someone put
sodium morphate in his apple pie.  The corpse was carted away from his home
in  the  back seat of a V.W.--and his files were "burned" but some of  them
got away.

May 28,  1972:   First break-in at Watergate:   McCord,  Barker,  Martinez,
Garcia,  Gonzales, Sturgis, DeDiego and Pico stood guard outside.  Hunt and
Liddy  directed the operation from a (safe?) distance --across the  street.
The object was to check on Onassis's two men to Democratic Party HQ:  Larry
O'Brien and Spencer Oliver.  (O'Brien chief "PR:  client had been "Hughes";
Oliver's father worked for Onassis).  McCord wire-tapped their phones.
     But!!!!   little did McCord know that the plumbers were being observed
by  Hal Lipset,  Katherine Graham's S.F.  detective who had followed two of
the plumbers from Liz Dale's side in S.F. to Watergate.  Lipset "watched in
amazement"  as the Plumbers broke in and bugged the phones:  then  reported
back to his boss Katherine Graham.   Lipset and Graham set the trap for the
Wtergaters when they returned to remove their bugs and equipment.

"The style of the old Holy Roman Empire:  a slave nation paying tribute  to
the conqueror."

October, 1973:  Another "Holy War"--Israelis VS Arabs..

January,  1974:   Joe  Alioto  grants  Sunol Golf Course lease  to  Mafioso
Komano,  Frattiano,  Nuniz,  Madiros, Abe Chapman and Neil Neilson.  Alioto
sets up the Dallas murder squad in S.F. for more murders.

January 26,  1974:  "Hughes" extradition trial cancelled in Reno by "Alioto
Mafia  Web"   Mafia  Judge Thomson after Moses Lasky  from  Mafia  Alioto's
California  Crime  Commission waves the forged  "Howard  Hughes"  signature
under his nose.

Maheu  "wins" his damage suit against "Hughes" his blackmail pay-off  after
discussing  Hughes'  "Game Plan" for buying control of the U.S>  by  buying
politicians: governors, judges, senators and presidents.

February,  1974:  Mafia Hearst's daughter Patty "kidnapped" by Lipset's SLA
in a fake terrorist action.

Martin  Luther  King's  mother  was murdered by a  black  student,  a  self
declared  "Israelite"--"acting  alone" who was escorted to  the  church  by
somebody-- and  who had a list of other mothers as targets.   Next day  the
target Shirley Chisholm got the message and rushed to sign off the DNC suit
against CREEP naming Francis L. Dale; she had been the last to hold out.

April 4,  1974:   Mary McCarthy,  a writer who had been given a copy of the
Gemstone file, said in an article in the New York Review of Books, that the
key  to the formation of Liddy's Gemstone plan lay in the where-abouts  and
activities  of  the Plumbers between December,  1971  and  February,  1972.
Answer:  They  were in the Drift Inn,  watching Gemstones rolling around on
the bar top.

August 6,  1974:  Nixon and Ford signed a paper at the White House.  It was
an  agreement:  Ford could be President.   Nixon got to burn his tapes  and
files and murder anyone he needed to cover it all up.

August 7,  1974:   Roberts passed information to Pavlov at the S.F. Russian
Consulate  which led directly to Nixon's resignation the "more"  journalism
review's story about Denny Walsh's "Reopening of the Alioto Mafia Web story
for the New York Times,  killed in a panic, plug a long taped discussion of
who and what the Mafia is.   Hal Lipset listened to the conversation in the
bugged  Consulate  room,  had  the  phone lines  open  to  Rockefeller  and
Kissinger who listened too.   Rockefeller sent Kissinger to the White House
with Nixon's marching orders:  "Resign right now".   Nixon and Julie cried.
But there was still some hope,  if Nixon resigned immediately,  of  drawing
the  line  somewhere--before it got to the King of the  Mountain  himself--
Onassis.   Nixon,  on  trial,  would blurt out those names to save himself:
Onassis, Dale, "Hughes", even JFK.

August  8,  1974:   Nixon stepped down,  and Ford stepped up:  to keep  the
cover-up going.

August 23,  1974:   Frattiano in San Francisco,  staying at the Sunol  Golf
Course.  More murders scheduled RE: Gemstone cover-up.

August 30,  1974:   Ford hires Mafia lawer Becker to work out a pardon deal
for Nixon,  who might otherwise name Onassis,  Graham,  and Pope Martini to
save himself.

San Francisco Zebra Murders:   A series of "random" killings, dubbed "Zebra
murders" by the police because supposedly blacks were killing whites.   The
real  target  was Silva,  the witness to Alioto's Mafia Nut  Tree  meeting.
Silva was shot to death in an alley.  Careful Mafia planning went into this
series,  to kill several birds with one stone.   1.)  Get witness Silva out
of  the  way,  without being too "obvious" about it.   2.)  Spread fear  of
"black  terrorists" and convince people that the police  department  needed
more  mony and more repressive power.   3.)  Blame and frame Black Muslims,
knock off leaders of the oppisition.

September 7,  1974:   Roberts nad made an agreement with a friend, Harp, of
Kish Realty,  over a bugged phone.  Harp was to buy a Gemstone with history
for  $500,  the  price of a trip to Canada for Roberts to  check  inot  the
"Hughes" Mormon Mafia Canadian stock market swindle and other matters.  But
Harp  was sodium-morphate poisoned before the deal could go through on this
date.

Note:  Sodium morphate: a favorite Mafia poison for centuries.  Smells like
apple  pie,  and  is sometimes served up in one,  as to  J.  Edgar  Hoover.
Sometimes in a pill or  capsule.   Symptoms:   lethergy,  sleep,  sometimes
vomiting.   Once ingested,  there is a heart attack and no trace is left in
the  body.   Proof  is  in the vomit which is usually  not  analysed.   Not
mentioned in your standard medical book on poisons,  etc.   It is a  common
ingredient in rat poison.

September 8, 1974:  Ford pardons Nixon for "all crimes committed" from June
20, 1969, (opps, make that January) through August, 1974.

Gemstone  papers  still floating around the wold.   Gandhi talks about  the
U.S.' bloody deeds.

October,  1974:   Ford  drops  "extradition" of Hughes  from  the  Bahamas.
Explanation:  "We dropped it because we knew he wouldn't come".  THAT'S FOR
SURE.

"Four documents; four bodies twisting slowly in the breeze".

Lyndon  Johnson:   Sodium  morphate  "heart  attack" at his  ranch  on  the
Pedernales River.  Among his last words: "You know fellows, it really was a
conspiracy...."

Alexander  Onassis's plane crash at the "1000 foot Walter  Reuther  Level",
via a fixed altimeter, at Athens Airport.

Eugene  Wyman:   California Democratic Party Chairman and JFK  assassinatin
pay-off bagman:  Heart attack.

L.  Wayne Rector,  Hughes' double:   Killed at Rothchild's Inn of the Park,
London.

          "Started the Shattering of the Mafia Economy".

March 18,  1973:   Roberts called Hal Lipset,  discussing all these matters
publicly over a tapped phone.   Lipset reported to Dean,  who had hired him
away  from  Graham,  after  they  figured out who had  taped  the  door  at
Watergate. (Mitchell:  Katie Graham's liable to get caught in a wringer").

March 21, 1973:  Nixon said that on this date, he "received new evidence on
Watergate".   Lipset bragged on T.V.  that he had been the one to bring new
evidence to Nixon.

Meanwhile,  back at the Washington Post,  Katherine Graham had been feeding
Woodward and Bernstein information for their articles.

May 10,  1973:  The first witness at the Watergate hearing running down the
names  on  the CREEP organizational chart,  mentioned the name at the  top:
Francis L.  Dale, Chairman.  Dale was never mentioned again during the rest
of the trial.

July 9, 1973:  Roberts had used Al Strom's Drift Inn bar as an open lecture
forum  for  any and all and Al Strom taped  it,  for  his  boss,  Katherine
Graham.  But Al was fair and told Roberts he was doing it, for which he was
murdered on this date.

August  1973:   Murder of Chile,  by Group of 40:  (Rockefeller and his man
Kissinger), working with the CIA and $8 million.  Allende's Chile.  Admiral
Noel  Gaylor,  Navel Intelligence,  told Roberts 1 1/2 years  earlier  that
Chile  would  get  it:   Roberts  warned the  Chilean  consul  in  advance:
Allegria, now "teaching" at Stanford.
     ITT  had now extracted $125 million payment for its Chilean plants,  a
good  return  for  their  $8  million.   Mafia  controlled  Chile's  annual
inflation rate has set a world's record.

March 19,  1973:   Dean to Nixon, nervously:  "There is a cancer growing on
the Presidency".

October 3,  1974:   The Watergate trial,  the cover-up of the cover-up  got
underway,  starting  Montini's Bon Veniste,  Onassis's Neal,  Graham's Jill
Volner.   In the White House, Mafia Mayors Alioto, Daley and Beame met with
the truth squad Ford, Scott and Griffin and Mike Mansfield, in secret.

October 10, 1974:  Tina Livanos Onassis Blandford Niarchos, sodium morphate
poisoned by hubby Stravos, puked, slept and died of "heart attack".

Losing his son Alexander, took all the fun out of killing for Onassis.  Who
was  there left to inherit the world empire he had dreamed of handing  over
to his son?

December,  1974:  Brezhnev had scheduled a meeting with Sadat.  The outcome
wouldn't help the U.S.  no matter how many trips Henry made to the mid-East
with  clean  socks  and blank checks.   A  new  U.S.  "secret  weapon"  was
apparently used,  a tiny speck of metal, introduced somehow into Brezhnev's
lymph system.   It lodged in the cluster of lymph nodes over his heart, and
there  it  was  coated with layers of,  much as an oyster created  a  pearl
around  an irritating grain of sand.   Brexhnev's lymph system clogged  up:
he got the flu and the meeting with Sadat was cancelled.

Russian doctors X-rayed him and found a hugh lump in his chest.   Then they
put  him  before  a Kirlian camera and checked his  aura  for  cancer.   No
cancer.

Note:   Kirlian  photography  is the latest Russian  diagnostic  tool.   It
reveals the presence of disease physical or moral (it also detects lies).

Brezhnev's lump had to be treated with radiation therapy:  hence the rumors
he had cancer>  It took six weeks to clear up.

March,  1975:   Onassis  died.   The Mafia Organization  regrouped  itself.
Prince  Fisal watched his uncle,  King Fisal,  silently watch the shift  of
Mafia  Power  and  couldn't  stand it anymore.   He  shot  his  uncle,  the
spiritual  leader of 60,000,000 Moslems,  who had played ball with  Onassis
all along.

South  Vietnam's  Thieu,  dubious  about which way the  Mafia  cooky  would
crumble,  now that Onassis was dead,  decided the time was right for him to
split.  He abandoned the war effort, cursed the U.S., and split for Taiwan,
his  plane  so overloaded with gold bullion that he had to dump some of  it
overboard.

March 15,  1975:   Roberts got the "Brezhnev Flu" and spent 2 weeks at U.C.
Hospital.    Doctors  there  without  the  Kirlian  photography  diagnostic
technique,  assumed the softball sized lump over his heart was cancer.   It
wasn't.

April,  1975:  The Cambodian domino was no fun at all - it fell right over.
Premier Lon Nol fled to exile in a Hawaiian suburb.

CIA chief Colby,  in a fit of spite,  leaked the stolen story of CIA Hughes
Glomar Explorer's raising of the drowned Russian sailors from their  sunken
nuclear submarine.  Purpose: To bag the Russians and also to halt criticism
of  the CIA by pointing out how noble,  brave and self-sacrificing they are
in their efforts to save us.

The  Russians are funny about their dead.   They bitterly resented  Colby's
game.   They quietly went through a massive navel "war game",  the rehersal
of a nuclear attack on the U.S.

Which  brings  us  almost  to  the  present  time.    Ford,  Kissinger  and
Rockefeller squat like toads on the corpse of America.   By the time of the
Bi-centenial the stink may be unbearable.

Ford  now  plans a propoganda mode version of his  book,  "Portrait  of  an
Assassin",  which  will  reiterate the exploded cock and bull  notion  that
Oswald  was JFK's lone assassin.   With singular inept misunderstanding  of
the times, he seems to think Americans will take his word for it and be re-
assured in the face of those crackpot conspiracy theories.  He doesn't seem
to  realize that he will be reminding or informing Americans of his role on
the infamous Warren Commission.

I  hope  this  outline  will make  individual  Gemstone  papers  easier  to
understand.

IF YOU FOUND THIS OUTLINE INTERESTING: -

You won't be reading it in the papers for quite some time.   At present the
only way to spread this information here in America is hand to hand.

Your help is needed.  Please make 1, 5, 10, 100 copies or whatever you can,
and  give  them to friends or politicians,  groups,  media.   This game  is
nearly up.  Either the Mafia goes or AMERICA goes.


End of verbatim transcript - July, 1986.
