Issue No. 15, August 1984

Let Us Get Our Priorities Straight
 Who's Trying to Save
What & Whom - Precisely

	A comprehensive and realistic survey of
the situation as it exists to date by carefully
sorting out the pretenders, the friends and the
enemies of the White Race.

	Throughout  history  -  individuals,  groups,  organizations,
religions - have been trying to "save" others of like categories from
the dire consequences of something they deem inherently evil. Some
of these crusades have been sensible and urgent, some have been
fanatically unreal, and some have been plain idiotic, depending on
the viewpoint of the observer. Some of these campaigns to save
somebody from something have been of long duration (thousands
years) some of only recent origin, some of temporary and frivolous
nature.
	Since we ourselves are engaged in a holy war to save the White
Race from mongrelization and extinction, it behooves us to take a
clearer look at what some other groups and individuals are doing,
have been doing, and will be doing. We want to more dearly delineate
those who might be our allies. We also want to expose more clearly
those who are obviously our out-and-out enemies, but have not been
recognized as such by most of our White Racial Comrades.
	One other matter I want to clarify. Since we of the Church of
the Creator have been so carelessly classified and categorized with
several previously existing organizations, we again want to make it
abundantly dear that we are a comprehensive and far-reaching racial
religion that is dedicated to the survival, expansion and advance-
ment of the White Race, and the White Race alone. As such we are
unique and none other exists today, and as far as we know, in all
previous history none has ever existed before.
 So let us look at history and examine precisely WHO has been
trying to save WHOM and WHAT precisely, and let us start with the
Egyptians, who in their own way were eager beavers and fanatically
engaged in trying to save something, and what they did has grossly
affected us to this day.

				29                                               THE ANCIENT
EGYPTIAN
CIVIlIZATION

	As I have reviewed in the articles on Egypt in RACIAL LOYAL-
TY Nos. 11 and 12, the entire Egyptian civilization, the first really
Great White civilization, was overwhelmingly dominated by religion.
Furthermore, their religious beliefs were wholly based on FIC-
TITIOUS CONCEPTS, rooted in superstition, gullibility and hocus-
pocus. Intelligent and advanced as the Egyptians were, they never-
theless were as superstitious and gullible as any primitive barbarian.

	But they were much more than that. They were highly ingenious
and inventive, especially in the realm of the supernatural. In fact it
is the Ancient Egyptians who deserve credit for mostly all the fic-
titious concepts on whose sleazy foundations later were built the
so-called major religions of today. These religions include primarily
Judaism, Christianity, Mohammedanism, Buddhism, Mormonism,
and what have you.

	What were there major innovations and concepts of the
spook  world  that  were  invented  by  these  ancient
religionists? They were numerous, major and far-reaching.
They include: (a) The idea of the human "soul" as being separate
and apart from the mind as such. (b) The idea of immortality of the
human soul, and a life in the "hereafter". (c) The idea of reward and
punishment for acts committed in this life, to be meted out in the
"next" life. (d) The idea of heaven and hell. Although vague in Egyp-
tian times, they laid the foundations for the monsters the Christian:
developed in later times. (e) The idea that "gods" with supernatural
powers could, and did, control our lives and mete out punishment
and rewards, not only in the "hereafter", but also in the earthly life
of each person. (f) The idea of placating, appeasing, pleasing, pray-
ing and kowtowing to these imaginary gods. (Not necessarily original
with the Egyptians, but they expanded it into a major production)
(g) The idea of building huge temples in honor of these imaginary
gods, in order to please, placate and honor them. (h) The idea of
tombs, sarcophagi, etc. for the soul. This led to gross excesses such
as building huge pyramids. (i) Complex rituals of worship. Again,
this too was not exactly original with the Egyptians, but the dimen-
sions to which they pushed this idea became the framework for the
later and present-day religions. (j) The widespread practice of cir-
cumcision. The Egyptians were the first major civilization to prac-
tice this barbaric mutilation of the human body as part of their
religious ritual. (k) The idea of tithing, that is extracting goods and
money From religious victims for the benefit of the priesthood, a prac-
tice that has been greatly improved upon by modern religions,

                               30

especially the sophisticated electronic evangelists of today, the super
con-artists of all time. (I) The idea of religious hymns was already
spawned by the Egyptians. (m) The idea of baptism, cleansing the
"soul" by ablution with water. (n) The idea of one god (Akhnaton).
(o) Six of the highly touted "Ten Commandments" that the Jews brag
they gave to the world were really plagiarized directly from the Egyp-
tians. (p) There are a number of other hocus-pocus religious ideas,
customs and terms for which we are indebted to the Egyptians, not
the least of which is the oft repeated, but meaningless word, "Amen",
deriving from praise of their god Amen-Ra.

	Perhaps I am spending a little more time on the Egyptians than
I should,  but  when  we  contemplate  the  tremendous  burden  of
religious debris they have dumped on succeeding generations, and
especially those living today, I believe it is highly important to unders-
tand where much of it originated.

	Now let us answer the question: WHAT were the Egyptians
trying to save?

	The answer is they were trying to save their "souls" and pro-
vide for a comfortable immortality - a fanaticism pursued even more
fervently by the Christians thousands of years later. They also had
a few lesser goals on the side. One was to overcome "time". and in
the building of their huge pyramids they have at least partly been
more successful than any other people. But they also wanted to ex-
tend and glorify their "earthly" name (ego), and in this, too, they
succeeded better than most.




THE JEWS

	it is one of the most fateful accidents of history that the parasitic
Jews were spawned out of the religious milieu of the Egyptian culture.
Certainly this accidental development has proved to be one
of the most catastrophic events in the development of the
White Race and one which in the present era may well pro-
ve to be the death knell of Nature's Finest. It is the holy vow
of the Church Of The Creator to see to it that this will not happen.

	In any case, the Jews being a parasitic race, were also an egocen-
tric race. Everything they learned they utilized for their own advan-
tage - and they learned plenty from the Egyptians. They learned:
that religious hocus-pocus is a powerful means of controlling and
directing people's minds. (b) That people's actions follow their in-
nermost motivations, and once you have control of their minds their
actions can be controlled to follow any direction their manipulators
wish.
                 31

	They then set about turning these ideas into reality and went
to work converting religion per se into a powerful racial tool -
RACIAL RELIGION. They further copied from the Egyptians: (c) The
idea of monotheism (Akhnaton). (d) Building temples for their god
(e) The idea of immortality. (f) The idea of the soul. (g) Life in the
hereafter. (h) Rituals of worship. (i) Circumcision for members of
their tribe.  (j)  Six  of their  "Ten   Commandments". (k)  Religion
fanaticism, this however, always in the direction of loyalty towards
their tribe.
	What is it the Jews are trying to save? They have one of
the clearest and most sensible goals of any existing religion in history
- the survival and expansion of their race to the point where
all other races have been mongrelized, lost their identity and
utterly destroyed, only to be enslaved into the toils of their
Jewish master. They fanatically pursue their goals with a zeal as
no other race ever has - to enslave and dominate the rest of
mankind and to accrue unto themselves all the gold, silver
and other assets on the face of the earth. Their goals are
clear, they are vicious, and they make a lot of sense - for
the Jews.

	What do we Creators have in common with the Jews? Absolutely
nothing, and everything. The Jews are our most vicious and bitter
foes. It is our desire to wipe Judaism from the face of the earth
DELENDA EST JUDAICA is our battle cry! But we have learned
just about everything from the Jews about how to build a racial
religion for the survival, expansion and advancement of the White
Race.

	One major difference between us and the Jews is this: Whereas
the Jews have throughout their history been a parasitic minority liv-
ing on the backs of productive White civilizations, we Creators are
just the opposite. We White Creators are the most productive,
creative species on the face of the earth. We need no Jews, no
mud races, no slaves, for our welfare and the sooner we get
all the parasites off of our back, the sooner every White Man
can live like a king. Nor do we plan to stay a minority. Whereas
we have no desire to dominate or enslave anybody, we want to ex-
pand the White Race until we crowd out the mud races and inherit
the earth - all of it - for the White Race.

		 	  *  *  *  *  *

	Once we get the Jews, muds and other
parasites off our backs, every White Man can live
like a king and every White Woman like a queen.

		 	  *  *  *  *  *

			       32                                                   THE GREEKS

	The inherent characteristic of the Greeks was their love of beau-
ty, culture, and their innate intelligence. Their limited goals were to
save their own city states from neighboring city states, and because
of such limited political and racial vision they warred on each other
endlessly in such fratricidal bloodletting as the Peloponnesian wars,
and thereby destroyed themselves. It was this fratricidal infighting
and their failure to realize the Divine Seed they possessed, that led
to their political downfall and the mongrelization of their excellent
gene pool.

	What do we Creators share with the Greeks? Well, we also pur-
sue the goals of culture, beauty, art and intelligence, but that is all.
We are aware of one great bonus the Greeks were not - how to
protect our gene pool and advance it ever higher and onward
to levels the Greeks never even dreamed of.

THE ROMANS

	Like the Greeks, the Romans started with excellent racial stock,
but oriented in a somewhat different direction. Whereas the Greeks
were highly innovative, and gifted in the arts and in culture, the
Romans were more pragmatic. They were great warriors, organize
and law givers, and as a result they not only conquered the Greeks
but all of the then known and worthwhile world around the Mediter-
ranean. Because they were such excellent conquerors they soon had
slaves by the millions to do their menial labor for them and this pro-
ved to be their downfall. Because they took in all the conquered
peoples of the era, they also took in a lot of mud genes and bastar-
dized their once noble race.

	What was their main passion? To save Rome - the Em-
pire. This they did for a thousand years but they lost their precious
genes in the meantime because they lacked a racial religion. As a
result, the collapse of Rome was one of the greatest tragedies in
history.

	What do we Creators have in common with the Romans? A great
deal, really. Our love for law and order, the desire to build, and the
desire for empire building, as well as many other noble traits. Had
The Romans only realized the preciousness of their inherent
genes and the value of a racial religion!

                       *  *  *  *  *

	Help build a mighty White Racial Movement.
Help build CREATIVITY.

                   33                                                            
THE CHRISTIANS


	Whereas the Judaic religion was spawned out of the hocus-pocus
welter of Egyptian religions, Christianity in turn was a planned
deliberate outgrowth of Judaism. Without the Jews the White
Race would never had the scourge of Christianity in-
flicted upon it. I have already elaborated on this subject in
NATURE'S ETERNAL RELIGION (Christ's Existence Not Substan-
tiated By Historical Evidence) and several other places in my writings.

	Briefly the story as it can be pieced together is this: When Rome
dominated the world in the first century C.E., (Common Era) they
assimilated, among many other territories, the minor Judaic kingdom
in Palestine, whose Capitol was Jerusalem. As always, although
militarily conquered, the Jews were rebellious against authority. In
order to subdue them and lay waste to their cities, Emperor Vespa-
sian sent General Titus to Judea to quell the rebellion. With a few
legions he laid siege to Jerusalem and in less than two years he con-
quered and leveled Jerusalem to the ground.

	That should have been the end of the Jews as the destruction
of Carthage was the end of the Carthaginians. But it was not. The
Jews were a tenacious tribe, thanks to the virulence and cohesiveness
of their racial religion, Judaism. They planned revenge, and the
destruction of the Romans: (See Creative Credo No. 43 "Confession
Of A Jew", in the WHITE MAN'S BIBLE)

	The Jews took a deadly course of action for which the Romans
were completely defenseless and unprepared, and which even while
the poison was being administered to them, they never understood.
Even to this day the overwhelming majority of the White Race fails
to understand it,  although the evidence is laid out before them, loud
and clear.

	The Jews now put into play the tenaciousness of their Judaic
religion - they put into full practice their trump cards - polariza-
tion and dispersion. (See Issue No. 13).

	The Jews utilized their tremendous accumulation of religious
knowledge and  psychological expertise. They went to work on the
brains of the Romans. They transformed the dauntless world con-
quering Roman warriors into whimpering, peace-loving wimps. The
tool they used was Christianity.

	Instrumental in this brilliant idea was a Jew by the name of Saul
of Tarsus, who later became the Christians' St. Paul. In order to put
this  piece  of chicanery together  he  dredged up the teachings of a
little known and dying religious sect around the Dead Sea. They were
known as the Essenes, and they were a Jewish sect, completely out
of the  mainstream  of Judaism.

	From their suicidal teachings ("Sell all thou hast", "Love your

                                 34                                              enemies", "turn the other cheek"), he concocted a deadly religion

to feed to the Romans. The whole Jewish network soon threw
themselves into the battle with a frenzy seldom before witnessed in
history. What they accomplished next through the power of their
religious zeal is, and remains, one of the most outstanding events
in history.

	The peoples of the Roman Empire (who by now were a mere
shadows of the original Roman stock) became obsessed with this new
Religion. As their minds became more and more drugged with this
anti-natare, anti-life doctrine, the Empire slowly sank, civilization
disintegrated, and an ominous dark pall settled over Europe for the
next thousand years. The Dark Ages set in.

	The Jews had triumphed with their B-bomb (brain-bomb). Their
triumph over the White Race prevails to this day, more ominously
than ever. The B-bomb is still ticking. What is it the Christians
are trying to save? Why, souls! All kinds of souls! All kinds of souls
- White brown  and black, from the fiery pit of hell. And who con-
cocted this horrible booby-trap? Why, the sweet loving (Jewish) god
who at the same time is supposedly making a big to-do that he is
trying  to save us all from that same fiery pit.

	What a crock of nonsense! Nobody has ever seen, heard, felt
or smelt a  god, or spook, or a soul. Talk about fictitious concepts!
The Egyptians invented them, the Jews capitalized on them, and the
stupid Christians swallowed the poisoned bait. (Read again "Fictitious
Concepts" in R.L., Issue No. 7, of Expanding Creativity

	What do we Creators have in common with the Christians? Not
much , except that about half of the Christians of the world are White,
and most White people, unfortunately, are still quasi-Christians.


NATIONAL SOCIALISM



	When we speak of the Nazis, I think it is extremely important
that we differentiate between the Nazi era of Adolf Hitler in Germany,
and the neo-Nazi groups that have spawned here in America. They
are not the same.

	First the Hitler era. Since I reviewed fairly thoroughly "Germany,
Adolf Hitler and  National Socialism" in Chapter 5, Book II of Nature's
Eternal Religion (p.290), it is not necessary for me to do so again.
I Will simply state what their goals were.  Basically the thrust of
Hitler's movement was to (a) save Germany from Jewish communism
(b) tear up the Versailles Treaty and recover territories lost by Ger-
many to surrounding countries (France, Poland, Czechoslovakia,
ect.), (c) break the back of Jewish money manipulators (d) expand
German hegemony and territory castward into the fertile lands of

		             35

Russia and Eastern Europe. There is more, but basically this sums
it up. The main idea was pan-Germanism (Deutschland uber Alles!)
and vigorous German expansion, at the expense of many other White
nations such as the French, Poles, Czechs, Slavs, Rumanians, Rus-
sians and others.

	We have now come to the helter-skelter of neo-Nazi groups
America that have sprung up since George Lincoln Rockwell reviv-
ed the neo-Nazi movement in 1958. We could also cite the Silver
Shirts of the 1930's, but they were actually a different breed, spawn-
ed and supported directly out of Germany, and died out when Ger-
many lost the war.

    What is it the neo-Nazis in America are trying to save?

	Well, there is no one clear answer. They are at best a mixed
breed, with motives as diverse and confused as are their members.
Some are  out-and-out plants  organized  by  the Jews
themselves so that the ADL can point with alarm to their
own dues paying members about the horrible threat of nas-
cent Neo-Nazism. This drives the Jews wild and they will quickly
cough up millions to help swell the war chest of the ADL. It works
beautifully.

	Then there are the Hollywood type of Nazis, who, like the Civil
War buffs, love to parade in Nazi uniforms, arm bands and all, and
throw the stiff-arm salute repeatedly. Basically they are shallow in-
dividuals indulging themselves on an ego trip. I have met quite a few
of them and find most of them are as confused as a little boy who
has just lost his chewing gum on the floor of a chicken pen.

	then there are the more serious type that want to emulate the
brilliant success of Hitler in the 1930's and believe they can transpose
those same procedures onto the American scene of the 1980's. Their
main success seems to pigeonhole itself into glorifying Adolf Hitler
(nothing wrong with that) but not in really having a ghost of a chance
of actually building a meaningful movement in America to do the
job that needs to be done. Why? Because they don't have a grasp
on reality and only a superficial understanding of the situation.
Among other things, they don't seem to understand at all (a) that
Hitler was a phenomena, a genius of unbounded energy, and the suc-
cess of the movement was more due to the personality of this great
unusual man than the philosophy he espoused, and (b) his program
was tailor-made for the situation in Germany during the 1920's, but
not geared to the America of the 1980's, and (c) were a young, vibrant
Hitler alive in  America today he would, I am sure, take an altogether
different approach. (d) None of the personalities on the scene in
America today are even comparable to the genius of Hitler  (e) That
because 13 million Americans fought against the Nazis in
WWII, the Nazi image in anathema to average American,

			    36                                                   

many of whose relative were killed in that war. Not only
is the Nazi image of no help, thanks to the massive
Jewish propaganda barrage over the past 50 years it is a
tremendous barrier towards a feasible solution to the
Jewish scourge

	So what are the Nazi groups trying to save? It is a confused pic-
ture. Most of them are merely on an ego trip, hoping they will become
A MODERN DAY INCARNATION OF ADOLF HITLER.

	Most of the various splinter groups  are  feuding amongst
themselves and are as hostile to each other as they are to the Jews.
Most of them have no clear philosophy of any kind, no goals, take
a wimpy stand on Christianity, and no program whatsoever on how
to achieve the goals they don't have.

	Some advance specious argument such as "when the race war
starts and there is blood flowing in the streets, then all these groups
will unite!" Really? How are they going to do that? (Read again "Make
Hay While The Sun Shines" in Racial Loyalty issue No. 13). Their
vague answer to that: "Hitler did it." That just isn't so. Hitler did not
unite with, or merge, the thousands of political groups that were
spawned in Germany after WWI. In fact, in his book Hitler definite-
ly denounces the merging of organizations as weakening and/or
destroying the original organizations. What Hitler did was con-
vert and absorb the individual members of other groups in-
to one solid Nazi Party. In short, he polarized the individuals
into one mighty movement under his leadership, and he did
not do it while anarchy ran rampant and blood flowed in the streets.
He did it under fairly civilized and orderly conditions. I repeat - let
us do likewise and unite under the banner of a racial religion - the
most powerful idea we have to work with, now or ever.

	So what are the neo-Nazis trying to save? It varies from group
to group. But the main thing they have in common is they are trying
to save their own hubris. (Webster defines hubris as overwhelming
personal ego.)

THE ODINISTS

	Like the Civil War buffs and the Hollywood Nazis, the Odinists
in a way are playing games with an era that has slipped away into
the distant past and can never be revived again, any more than you
can revive a dead horse, though you may try to awaken it with a
massive blast of dynamite.

	Though small, the members of the revised Odinists movement
are Intellectually a cut above the neo-Nazi, and their racial goals
are sensible, although they have little or nothing to do with Odin,
Thor or Wodin. Basically they use these Norse mythologies as a sort

		                37                                               

of backdrop, a Mythos, as Alfred Rosenberg would describe, to cling
to as a point of departure.

	But why must they use such cluttered window dressing as a
necessary prop? True, the Vikings were great fighters and excellent
physical specimens, but intellectually they were on a level with Hagar
the Horrible in the Comic Strips. Mostly they were highly illiterate
and most of what we know about their mythologies were conveyed
to us by the more literate Christians of a later date. In any case, the
Viking understood nothing of the more powerful mind.
bending tactic of the more cunning Jews, and were no
match for them at any time. In consequence they succumbed to
the more sinister and seductive Christian lure and today their descen-
dants - the Danes, Swedes and Norwegians, are the most sub-
missive Jew-loving wimps on the face of the earth. Christianity and
other Jewish propaganda has done its job well.

	So what would convince anyone that an insipid set of Mother
goose myths could and will reverse a situation from an era that has
passed on and is now as dead as a doornail? The answer -
nothing. We believe that the Odinists, good people that they are,
should dump this unnecessary garbage and join with us In a full fledg-
ed racial religion that covers the complete spectrum, but is not bogg-
ed down with a mass of ballast that can only be an insult to any White
Man's intelligence.

	What are the Odinists trying to save? Here we have to differen-
tiate between the Odinist of the ancient Vikings and that of the small
modern group with their revived version. The original Odinists were
lainly indulging in unadulterated superstition playing religious games
with their own concocted gods and myths, as had so many other
peoples before them - the Egyptian, the Greeks, the Romans, and
even hundreds of mud races. Even In that category the quality of the
Viking myths were several cuts below that of the more erudite and
civilized Greeks and Romans.

	The revived and revamped modern day Odinists have somewhat
different goals that can be delineated into two incompatible and
unrelated categories. One, to vicariously relive the trappings of a
bygone era. which, if it were to be really duplicated would be pretty
miserable. and secondly. to revive a "mythos" upon which to build
an "Aryan" religion end be able to point to it with pride and say "this
is a White Man's religion, not a Judeo-Christian  religion". Although
even in this category their modern day version has many gaps and
is incomplete, we Creators share these goals with Odinists. In rejec-
ing Jewish Christianity the Odinists have already gone a long way
towards our position. We there suggest that they stop play-
ing games, join with us all the way in a real White Man's
religion that has the total Program, the Final Solution, the

			      38                                                 
Ultimate Creed.

THE PATRIOTS
	We now come to the group in America that is probably the
largest, the most amorphous, and also the most disorganized and
the most confused.

	Since this category includes so many groups that it is impossi-
ble to list, I will go straight to the common denominator and ask
the rhetorical question: What are they trying to save? And the
noble sounding answer is "We are trying to save the
country".

	When asked: From whom? Their answers become extremely
fuzzy. From the bureaucrats,  from the Democrats,  from the
Republicans, from Carter, from Reagan, from the politicians, from
the C.F.R., from the Bilderbergers, from the Trilateralists, from the
"internationalists", from the "insiders", from the communists, from
the Zionists, from the Dual Loyalists, from the U. N., from special
interests, from the bankers, from ourselves (even!). Depending on
whom you ask, you can come up with a whole plethora of different
answers - but strangely they all have one other thing in common
- they will never put their finger on the real culprit - thee
Jewish powerhouse.

	When asked a second meaningful question, namely for whom
are they trying to save the country, they act as if they had never
given that a thought. Why the people, of course, is their bland
answer. When this line of questioning is pursued further - would
you fight and lay down your life to save this country so it
could be populated with wall-to-wall niggers and other mud
peoples, and run by the Jews? Would you try to "save the coun-
try" although its government, press and whole power establishment
was intensely hostile to the White Race, and had, in fact  a series
of aggressive programs in force aimed at mongrelizing and/or com-
mitting  genocide on the White Race? Would you fight for a govern-
ment and country whose loyalty was overwhelmingly for the bandit
state of Israel and everything Jewish but extremely hostile to the
White Race? Would you again fight a war for a government
and country that joined hands with the Russian communists
in 1941, and fought a war that killed millions of our best
White men, only to save the necks of the Jewish monsters?
At this point the Patriot becomes extremely alarmed, agitated,
confused, and even hostile. They start mumbling incoherent phrases
programmed into their unthinking minds by the Jewish propaganda
mill. Automatically they mumble something about racists, Nazis,

                              39                                                 bigots, and they don't want to get into "it".

	Well, nuff said. I have covered this subject more fully in Chapter
2 (Part II) of NATURES'S ETERNAL RELIGION, "Your Loyalty -
a Sacred Trust", and also several chapters in the WHITE MAN'S
BIBLE, namely Creative Credo Nos. 17, 18, 21, 29, 32 and several
others.

	What do we Creators have in common with the Patriots? Well,
quite a lot - mostly in the fact that the majority of our good White
friends belong to this confused and helpless lot. It is also in this group
that most of our potential members now lie dormant, in great need
of both awakening and education.

	However, I must make clear the distinction between "patriot"
Individuals and "patriotic" organizations, and post a warning. Most
of the organizations that appeal to the average American's patriotism
are Jew spawned, are designed to distract, confuse and relieve the
average White American of his money - especially his money. In
short, most of them are Jewish rackets, surprisingly many based in
the Jew capital of the world - Washington, D. C. Most such come
In well sounding appeals such as "Help save the Panama Canal".
(Now who but a rogue wouldn't want to help save the Panama Canal
for America?) They  come  equipped  with  neatly  printed,  self-
addressed, postage paid envelopes, and of course the standard fare,
the card which says "I enclose $5.00, $25.00, $100.00, $500.00,
$1000.00". They have it down to a science and it works beautifully

THE
CONSTITUTIONALISTS

	Closely allied to the patriots, but better read, and intellectually
a few cuts above the average American Patriot are the Constitu-
tionalists, although they have much the same attitude. They are for
saving the Constitution  for God, flag and country. The main dif-
ference is they want to do it in a specific way, by "enforcing" the
Constitution.

	When asked the rhetorical question - Who do you expect will
enforce the Constitution as you want it enforced? The answer is: the
government!

	It is a useless hassle to point out the obvious to them: The
government is Public Enemy No. 1, hostile as hell to the White Race
and hell-bent on the total destruction of the White Race and every
value we hold dear.  Our American government is totally in the hands
of our mortal enemy the Jews, who are using the Constitution to rob,
loot and destroy the best and most productive element of the polyglot
American melting pot - the White worker.

	To try to reason with the Jewish powerhouse, to explain con-

                            40                                                                                                                         stitutional niceties, to "convince" them they should change their

ways, is pure insanity. The Jews are fully aware of what they are do-
ing, although the White Man is not, and nothing, but nothing, is go-
ing to "persuade" them to change their course - except raw, massive
power.

	In order to generate such a power base the White Man has
build his own massive movement and brutally smash the Jewish
establishment to smithereens. Only a massive White steamroller
movement an do this, and before we can do so we have to
get our priorities straight. This, of course, is what Creativity is
all about and I will have more to say about this in the conclusion
of this article.

THE WHITE CHRISTIAN
RACISTS

	This group is really a breed apart and needs special mention from
that of the Patriots and the Christians. in this category we can list
The Christian Vanguard, The Thunderbolt, The National States
Rights Party (which claim they are now UN-connected from each
other). The various Klans also fit into this category, although loose-
ly. There are a few dozen other small groups that also espouse the
cause of Christianity and White racism.

	This whole string of groups, too, is highly amorphous and a com-
pletely mixed bag of tricks. Without examining each one in detail
the common characteristic or goal of all these groups is they are
presumably trying to save your soul from the fiery pit and the White
Race at the same time. This, of course, is a highly contradictory goal
and self-defeating. It is like trying to win the Indy 500, but you make
sure that every time you push down on the accelerator with one foot,
you push down even harder on the brakes with the other. (Read again
"Self-imposed Handicaps" in Racial Loyalty Issue No. 6 of Expan-
ding Creativity). That is one hell of a way to win a race, and, of
course, you never do.

	The biggest harm these groups do is confuse the hell
out of the average White racist by pounding away at the term
"White Christian" over and over and over, until like the
Pavlovian dog, the victim begins to think that the two terms
are synonymous, when, in fact, we have shown throughout
this and dozens of other articles that Christianity is poison
to the White Race, was a major cause of the disintegration of the
Roman race and the fall of its Empire, and was spawned by the Jews
for that very purpose in the first place.
	One other immense value these Pro-White anti-Jewish Chris-
tians have to the Jewish cause is this: It provides a feasible argu-

				  41                                                                                                                              ment against clarifying the Jewish-Christian-White Race

dilemma Protagonists for Christianity can point to the fact that
Christianity can't be a Jewish hoax because Christians like (the above
mentioned) are strongly anti-Jewish. Sounds reasonable.

	But the dominant fact is the overwhelming majority of Chris-
tians like the National Council of Churches, the World Council of
Churches, like Moral Majority and the Jerry Falwell Crowd, Billy
Graham, the Catholic Church, are all strongly PRO-Jewish, PRO-
Israel, PRO-race-mixing and ANTI-White. These groups represent
more than 99 Per cent of the White Christians of the world, and the
comparative handful of ANTI-Jewish Christians do nothing
more than confuse the issue by Providing a credible argu-
ment for not exposing the Jewish nature and origins of
Christianity

	The end result most of these groups accomplish is similar to that
of the Birch Society and that is as its members see one defeat after
another, the enticements of throwing in the towel and thinking more
and more of the blandishments of the next world in heaven become
stronger and stronger. In this way one good White Racial fighter after
another is neutralized and finally becomes a total victim of that
Jewish mind scrambler. He becomes a "devoted", "dedicated" Chris-
tian and lets the real world (and his race) go to hell - into the hell
of the Jews.

THE POPULISTS

	Recently, especially under the auspices of The Spotlight out
of Washington, the Populist Party has received some mediocre pro-
minence and publicity (nothing in comparison to, for example, what
that little talentless mongrel, Michael Jackson has been showered
with). Since The Spotlight has a relatively large circulation for a
paper that (overtly) professes to be ANTI-Jewish (Well, at least ANTI-
Israel) this phenomena deserves some attention.

	What does the Populist Party stand for?

	Well, basically it is supposed to be the People's Party and repre-
sent the will of the people (aren't all Political Parties made up out
of people, and stand for, by, of, behind, and in front of the people?
It is supposed to represent Americanism - to go back to the good
old times, and plethora of old time goodies, including stick candy
with red, white and blue stripes on it.

	Let us go back a little into the history of the Populist Party.

	The Populist Party was founded as an agrarian political party
in February, 1892, in St. Louis, MO. It represented in general three
groups: (a) Western farmers. (b) Southern farmers who through the
Farmers  Alliance  had  sought to,  but failed,  to capture the

                             42

Democratic Party, and (c) Representatives of several labor and reform
groups. At their first convention on July 4, 1892, in Omaha, they
adopted a platform of the graduated income tax (we have it now,
do we ever!), direct election of U.S. Senators (we have that now also),
free coinage of gold and silver in a ratio of 16 to 1, and other reforms
relating to land, currency and transportation.

	By 1896 the party was captured by William Jennings Byran and
it soon committed suicide, hobbling along until 1908, when it became
defunct.

	A revival of this same party today is as archaic as trying to revive
the Odinist gods, or the Klan of the 1880's or the Nazi Party of the
1930's. They do not fit the massive fob at hand. They do not address
the overwhelming issue staring us in the face - the racial issue. They
only fiddle around the fringes, but never come to grips with
the nitty gritty - Christianity, the Jews, the explosion of the
mud races.

	Besides the obviously blatant inadequacy of the Populist Party
and its platform to do the massive job that needs to be done, it has
inherent in it that basic weakness characteristic of all democracies
- it is based on mob psychology. History has taught us - or should
have by now - that no great heroic thought or act ever emerges
from the mob. On the contrary, only the lowest, basest demands
come out of any mob. It always sinks to the lowest denominator,
namely - how can I get a free ride at the public trough. As Hitler
has pointed out - all great ideas emerge out of the minds of great
individual personalities - great leaders.

	The Populist Party runs exactly counter to the Leadership Prin-
ciple and instead seeks to cater to the wishes of the mob for its direc-
tion. Since the mob, collectively, never really knows what it wants
and at best has a multi-polyglot mind that is usually confused beyond
belief, you can be sure the Jews will quickly take control, if they didn't
instigate the whole scam in the first place.

	I predict that the Populist Party will go the way of its earlier
counterpart around the turn of the century, and as did George
Wallace's American Independent Party, namely, belly up.

	So what is the Populist Party trying to save? Well, presumable
the country, for the people. But which of the polyglot mess of peo-
ple that inhabit this country, they don't say. Basically, the Populist
Party is only the Spotlight, and the Spotlight is Willis Carto. So what
is Willis Carto trying to save? Well, looking at his record and that
of the Spotlight, it seems to me that Willis Carto is trying to save
his own hubris and his own little empire at any cost - for Willis
Carto.

	The Spotlight is riding a tricky little tightrope and has tried to
play both sides, whichever pays best, and sells the most books and

				43

papers. Willis Carto has written a glowing endorsement as the
FOREWORD to Nietsche's "Anti-Christ" which his publishing house,
Noontide Press, puts out. At the same time he will publish equally
glowing reports about what a great Christian is the movie actor, Ty
Hardin, and isn't it wonderful. When a fairly innocuous article about
the Odinists and the Creativity movement brought down the wrath
of the Christians on his neck with numerous cancellations, he again
hastily retreated to publishing long installments by Christian pastors
about the wonderful complexities of Christianity.

	He admitted frankly that the Christians are the mainstay of his
paper and he cannot afford to offend them, no matter how deluded
they may be.

	Is Carto going to help save the White Race? For years I thought
he might. He claims to print what the "controlled press" is afraid
to print and will suppress. But when it comes to Jews directly,
or the Christian hoax, he evidently is as cowardly as the rest
of them, and if he "must" cater to the Christians, then, The
Spotlight is as controlled as is the Jewish press. They never
attack the Jews as such, but fritter around the edges with such terms
as the Dual Loyalists, the Zionists, and other silly terms.

	Can we look to the Populist Party and Willis Carto for guidance?
I don't think so. After being snookered by experts, I am beginning
to have an intuitive sixth sense about such people, and my sixth sense
tells me that The Spotlight and Willis Carto will go the way of William
Buckley and his National Review, Robert Welch and his Birch Socie-
ty, George Wallace and the American independent Party. (Since I
was chairman of the American independent Party for Florida in its
heyday I believe I am speaking from experience about that betrayal).
That route is to raise the hopes of the victims, to take the people's
money, sell them down the river, thoroughly neutralize them, and
continue to play ball with the Jews. Business as usual.

	In the meantime a lot of good White people will pour a lot of
their time, money and energy down the rathole, emerge sadder but
wiser, and probably be permanently neutralized. We Creators want
no part of it. Personally I learned my lesson from the Wallace fracas.
Never again.


THE INTELLECTUALS

	There is one other group, minor in impact, that are ideologically
on our side,  but do little to further our  movement.  These are the
armchair  strategists,  the  intellectuals,  who  write  all  kinds  of
erudite books, booklets and articles, but really do little if anything
to help the cause.

			       44

	I will take only one case in point because this fine old gentleman
who is now in his 90's, illustrates what many others do less brilliant-
ly than he has.

	William Gayley Simpson, over a period of forty years wrote the
material for his masterpiece: "Which Way Western Man?" I read the
book several years ago and think it is great, but also have several
criticisms regarding its content, such as the long drawn out disser-
tation about his infatuation with Christianity and his gradual disillu-
sionment. Also I believe the obsession with Nietsche is far longer
than serves any purpose.

	Nevertheless, and be that as it may, my main point is this: After
the wealth of information he brilliantly displays about the Jews,
money, the White Race, and other vital subjects that concern the
survival of the White Race, he comes to the dour conclusion that
there really isn't much hope that we will be able to pull out of our
dilemma before it's too late, and anyway he knows of no solution.
He admits he has no answer.

	The book ends just the way the title begins, saying namely, I
don't have the answer, only the question.

	This kind of approach always aggravates the hell out of me. If
you are an expert and you give me a long drawn out diagnosis, but
have no solution, why did you waste a lot of my time telling me (again)
about the problem? (Read again "The Flat Tire Syndrome" in Racial
Loyalty Issue No. 1 of Expanding Creativity).

	We Creators are not interested in hearing a rehash of
the problem for the hundredth time no matter how intellec-
tual, how cleverly it might be rephrased. Nor are we interested
in witnessing a brilliant display of some writer's intricate knowledge
of past details, If in all of this there is no answer toward solving the
problem that overwhelms all other issues, and that is - the survival,
expansion and advancement of the White Race.

	In one way such intellectual armchair strategists do a great deal
of harm, other than taking the White Man's money and wasting his
time in rehashing the same old problem, and that damage is this:
The average yokel, who does not consider himself an expert by any
means, upon reading such "expert" analysis, is greatly depressed and
discouraged.  He  comes  to  the  logical  conclusion  that if such  a
knowledgeable expert has no answer, has no solution, and thinks there
is no hope, how can he be expected to know what to do? He con-
cludes that it is hopeless and throws in the towel.



			   *  *  *  *  *

		                 45                                                                                                                             CONCLUSION

	There are, of course, thousands of other groups that I have not
mentioned that are organized to save something. There is the
Greenpeace group that are fanatically and actively out to save baby
seals. There is the Audubon Society that has tens of thousands of
members that are concerned about the environment in general and
birds in particular. There are even more specialized groups that are
spending real money and energy trying to save the remaining 50
Whooping Cranes. There is the NAACP and dozens of similar
organizations that are trying to save niggers.

	The list is endless. The bottom line on mostly all of them, in one
way or another, is - it is the White Man's time and money that goes
into practically all these endeavors. This spans the entire spectrum,
all the way from saving ephemeral "souls" to saving Whooping
Cranes. We say this: The birds are for the birds, the niggers are for
the niggers, the Jews are for the Jews, and are they ever! What about
the White Race? Who is for them?

	The question that screams to high heaven is that if the White
Man can become so involved and concerned about saving every
meaningless trifle on the face of the earth, why is he so lethargic,
dead on his feet, yes, even ashamed, to save the most
precious value on the face of the earth that is dying out (ac-
tually being murdered), namely the White Race itself?

	Doesn't the White Race know about the Jew? He should. Henry
Ford spelled out the Jewish problem back in 1921-22 when he
published the "International Jew". He was not the first and by no
means the last. But that was 60 some years ago - spanning three
generations - and writers about the Jewish problem have repeatedly
been doing just that - endlessly rehashing the problem, but never
spelling out a meaningful solution. I ask all these intellectuals (and
I am not now referring to Mr. Wm. G. Simpson), how long do you
want to keep rehashing the problem without a solution to the pro-
blem? How long do you want to pontificate without doing
something meaningful to solve the problem? Three genera-
tions? Five? Until the problem has liquidated itself with the extinc-
tion of Nature's Finest?

	There is an overwhelming answer to the problem and the Church
Of The Creator has it. We have spelled out the solution loud and
clear. One of the biggest roadblocks to the intellectuals is
helping to put into action a meaningful solution that already
exists  is  the  hubris  of these  intellectual  experts in
themselves. They are extremely obtuse and intransigent in
accepting what is obvious: Implementing a White racial
religion. Yes, hubris. They didn't think of it first, therefore, ignore

			        46

it, torpedo it, even if it means the death of the White Race itself.

	History speaks loud and clear, especially the history of the Jews,
and the message is this: The White Race needs, the White Race
must have a racial religion of its own, and the most massive
roadblock standing in the way is Jewish Christianity. It is
there. It was placed there to obstruct, confuse, and fragment the mind
of the White Race so that it could never realize its own great poten-
tial. it is therefore obvious we must dump this Jewish mind-scrambler
and replace it with Creativity - a comprehensive, meaningful, racial
religion of our own.

	After we have reviewed a number of flimsy and trifling causes
the White Man has been chasing and on which he has been wasting
his time, money and energy, we pose the rhetorical question: What
is the Church of the Creator trying to save?

	The answer is loud, clear and unequivocal. We are striving
for the survival, expansion and advancement of the White
Race.

	In so saying, I am only too well aware that enemies of our Church
and of the White Race are going to drag out their well-rehearsed bag
of tricks to destroy us. Especially I expect them to dump on us the
old Jewish and Christian ploy of ACCUSE THE ACCUSER,
and accuse me of a hubris of my own.

	To them I say this: you can dredge up all the slanderous names
in your lexicon and do so twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week
- it will not deter our movement one bit. Yes, we're deter-
mined to see it through - whatever is takes- Yes, we are pro-
ud of our religion, the first real racial religion the White Race
has ever had. And yes, we are mighty proud to be White, and
we have the most valid reasons in the world for all the above
as to why we should.

	But personal hubris, if any, on my part is a minor item in the
whole determination. I am not a public person. I have no desire to
be in the limelight, and I don't care about publicity. The fact is, I
am a loner and enjoy my privacy. I would just as soon some
dynamic young promoter half my age took over the leader-
ship, the publicity, the glory, if any, and the awesome burden. I
have said so publicly and repeatedly. (See the "Search for the
Great Promoter" in Issue No. 10 of Expanding Creativity on P. 165)
And as soon as we find him that is what will be done. (Fortunately
we are already in contact with some encouraging prospects).

	Be that as it may, slander or no slander, I am determined that
the Creativity movement will go on and expand until it em-
braces all of the White world. We are going to see to it that it
does, whatever it takes, whatever the costs. I am doing it not because
of any hubris on my part, but because the ramifications of the suc-

				47

cess or failure of the movement are awesome, and the job has to
be done.

	Never in history has a more real, more meaningful, more im-
portant, more portentous cause been set forth than that to which
we, the Church of the Creator have committed our lives, our liber-
ty, our honor and our fortunes. In so doing, I must remind every White
Racial Comrade, not only our own lives and fortunes are at stake,
but those of our children, our grandchildren and hundreds, yes,
thousands of future generations of the White Race yet unborn.

	The stakes are high, and we have the answer. Yes, you're damn
right, we have the answer, hubris or no hubris. Never in the history
of the White Race has a full-blown racial (or any other kind
of) religion appeared on the scene that is as complete, as
comprehensive, that has the solutions to practically every
major problem that today confronts an angry, seething
world in utter chaos. We have the complete framework of solu-
tions to the racial problems, the economic problems, the health pro-
blems, the farm problems, the educational problems, the religious
problems, the environmental problems - all of them are inherent
in our creed. We have the TOTAL PROGRAM, the FINAL
SOLUTION, the ULTIMATE CREED. Whatever bits and pieces
need to be supplemented within that framework are minor, but the
program itself encompasses all aspects of life on this planet earth
- our only home now and forever.

	If CREATIVITY succeeds - and it will - it will be a
universal blessing not only for the White Race but for that
Whole entity we now call humanity. If we fail, this Planet
Earth will become a living hell for all "humanity", if we can
then still call it that.

	So we ask all good White Racial Comrades to join with us. After
three generations of fiddling, it is time we quit rehashing the pro-
blem and get to work implementing the solution. We say to
the intellectuals, to the pseudo-experts, quit spinning your wheels
and wet nursing your little hubris. You can stop searching. Save the
White Race. The answer is staring you in the face. There is a hell
of a lot more than your individual little hubris at stake. Our own great
race - Nature's Finest - is now on the chopping block and we need
action, not endless pontification.

	So join with us. Build your own Church Of The Creator
Organization in your area, but let's get our act together.
Remember - the bottom line as to whether or not we save
our own race is this: How much do you really care? Only you
can answer that question.

		*  *  *  *  *

		   48

		*  *  *  *  *

	Unfortunately, at this time the average White
Man's mind is too cluttered with superficial trash
to be able to grasp the full ramifications and
magnitude of the idea we Creators are expoun-
ding. But we will get to them all, sooner or later.

		*  *  *  *  *

	ZEALOUSNESS in the promotion of the
White Race is no vice; APATHY in its defense is
no virtue.

		*  *  *  *  *

   A logical mind is in close touch with reality
Insanity is characterized by living in a world of
fantasy.

		*  *  *  *  *

	There ore no two issues so wide apart a politi-
cian can't straddle them.

		*  *  *  *  *






















			    49

CREATIVITY UNIQUE

	Not a rehash of the Nazi Philosophy

	In Issue No. 4 of EXPANDING CREATIVITY (P. 56) we clearly
delineate eight fundamental issues on which we Creators differ with
Hitler's Nazi philosophy. In this dissertation we conclude our analysis
of the eventful episode in history created by that great genius, Adolf
Hitler. He  now belongs to the ages and history will never
again see another man like him. He was unique and the Nazi
era be created in Germany was unique. And it, too, now belongs
to history.

	Adolf Hitler made a tremendous breakthrough for the White
Race, but unfortunately be did not break the back of the Jewish
monster. On the contrary, the Jews emerged victorious from the
ashes of a defeated Germany. When WWII ended, the Jews were
ten times more powerful than before that holocaust began.
Now, forty years later they have further consolidated that power and
tightened their death grip on the world, and on the White Race. It
remains up to us the present generation, to break that stranglehold
Nobody else will do it for us.

	We CREATORS have learned much from the Nazi experience
and the mistakes made in dealing with the Jewish monster. We have
come up with  a  completely  different approach  and use the same
weapons the Jews have used so successfully for over 3500 years,
namely the power of religion.

	In Issue No. 4 of Expanding Creativity (P. 56), I list eight Fun-
damental Differences between Creativity and the Nazi movement.
believe it would be useful to recapitulate those differences here. They
are as follows:

   1. Whereas the concern of Hitler and the Nazi movement was
to save Germany from the enemies that surrounded her, the over-
whelming goal of the Church Of The Creator is the survival,
expansion and advancement of the White Race.

   2. Hitler himself stated that the Nazi movement was a political
movement  exclusively  for  the  Germans  and  not  for  export.
CREATIVITY is, in contrast, a RELIGIOUS movement design-
ed for global proportions to embrace all the White peoples
of this Planet Earth.

   3. Whereas Hitler never tackled the issue of Jewish Christiani-
ty, and, in fact, sometimes even mildly identified with it, we con-
front Christianity head-on, expose its treacherous and
deceitful nature, and its Jewish origin.

   4. Hitler left us a burdensome legacy  that still lingers on the
minds of many of his admirers, and that is that the Jewish Problem

				50

must be solved as a political problem. We Creators say: not so,
it is a religious problem that can only be solved by replac-
ing Jewish Christianity with a powerful racial religion for
the White Race. In CREATIVITY we have it.

   5. Whereas the Nazi movement took a harsh and hostile stance
toward many of its White neighbors - The French, the Poles, the
Czechs, etc., Creativity, on the other hand, seeks to embrace and
unite all the White peoples of the world.

   6. Whereas Hitler formed a military alliance with one of the more
powerful mud races, namely the Japanese, to help kill White peoples,
to us CREATORS this is sheer treason and must never hap-
pen again.

   7. Whereas the "mythos" of the Nazi movement was the smart,
goose-stepping Nazi Storm Trooper, the capable Prussian Generals
of the German General Staff, and the era of Frederick the Great,
we Creators instead point with pride to the Winning Of The West
and  prefer the American "Manifest Destiny" as our "mythos"
for the Winning of the World.

   8. We shun the "personality cult" approach to the overwhelm-
ing problem that confronts us and rely instead on logic and com-
mon sense; on the experience of history; and on the Eter-
nal Laws of Nature as the broad and solid base upon which to
build our powerful religious movement.

   Read again FUNDAMENTAL DIFFERENCES in Expanding
Creativity, Issue 4 (P. 56).

		*  *  *  *  *


	We  Creators consider Adolf Hitler the
greatest leader the White Race has ever had and
the greatest White Man that ever lived.

		*  *  *  *  *

	National Socialism was the first mighty
breakthrough, for the White Race, but it was not
the total answer. CREATIVITY IS.

		*  *  *  *  *

	The time to get our act together is NOW or
NEVER

		*  *  *  *  *

		     51
