Issue No. 19, December 1984

	For the White Race, Jewish democracy has
been an Unmitigated Disester.

  The Era of Political
    Parties is over

	With the Reagan landslide the U.S. is rapidly mov-
ing towards a tyrannical one party Jewish dictatorship
aimed at the destruction of the White Race. Conventional
Politics are no longer the answer. To be effective the White
Race must use other means.

	One of the most effective stratagems the Jews have developed
over the millenniums for controlling the goyim is the Divide and Con-
quer technique. This they have done brilliantly and honed to a fine
edge. They utilize it in a thousand different areas of endeavor, among
which religion, race and politics are only a few of the major
categories.

	The main target and the Jews most dangerous enemy is without
a doubt the White Race, although only the Jew is aware of this. Con-
versely, the White Man, who may be brilliant in many field, is
strangely, also the Jews most gullible and cooperative victim. When
it comes to the issues of race and religion, the White Man is un-
doubtedly one of the dumbest creatures on the face of the earth
the Jew has capitalized handily on this White Man's Achilles' heel.
In this dissertation we want to examine the issue of potitics and how
the Jew has utilized the technique of Divide and Conquer to
neutralize, subdue, and manipulate the White Race, not only in
America, but throughout the world.

	The key word in this deadly game of confuse, divide, manipulate
and conquer is DEMOCRACY. Whereas our Founding Fathers were
not astute enough to excrete the Jew from our political system and
our society (Benjamin Franklin tried. See P. 260 of Nat. Etern. rel
they were intelligent enough to know that every "democracy" had
In It the seeds of its own self-destruction. They tried to set up a
Republic, which in essence really differs very little from a democracy.
Both cater to the lowest elements of a free-loading political electorate,
until the parasites and the free-loaders are eventually the masters
of an ever shrinking productive segment of the population. The end
rest is the destruction of the producers and the breakdown of the

				 96

political and social structure. Chaos, race-mixing and crime mount
inneasingly as the social fabric disintegrates. In the final breakdown,
unfortunately, the best elements of our race do not necessarily sur-
vive. In fact, history teaches us just the opposite. As In Mexico, as
in San Domingo (Haiti), as In Rhodeia (Zimbabwe), the scum, the
niggers, the mulattoes survive as the Whites retreat. But in all cases
the Jew stage manages, manipulates and controls the show from the
beginning to the end.

	How does the Jew himself manage to survive throughout all this
disintegration and chaos? What technique does he use in politics in
particular to manipulate and take control?

	These are two separate questions that are inextricably interwoven
and I will try to deal with them separately.

	First of all the jew manages to survive and stay on top because
he has a powerful RACIAL RELIGION, Judaism, to polarize
around. It is this pole star that has been the guide and mainstay
with which he has been able to unite his mongrelized race and his
religious cohorts. This is the secret, the bedrock of all his further
conspiracles and manipulations. Without it, as former Israeli Prime
Minister Golda Meir flatly stated, the jews would have been nothing.

	Secondly, the Jews practiced and continue to practice RACIAL
LOYALTY. This they do fervently to the point of fanaticism.

	Thirdly  they  practice  RACIAL  TEAMWORK.  This is
something the CHURCH OF THE CREATOR has repeatedly been
urging the White Race to do with equal fervor and ingenuity.

	Fourthly they have both short range and long range goals,
all designed for the survival and benefit of the Jewish race.

	There are many other facets to the tenacious cohesiveness of
the Jewish race but the above are the fundamentals, all of which,
now that the White Race has a racial religion of its own, we Creators
strongly advocate the White Race practice with equal dedication.

	Now, addressing the question as to how the Jews continue to
control and manipulate the goyim, the list of tricks, shatagems and
devices the Jews use is endless. They utilize their financial domina-
tion, control of the media, religion (both Judaism and Chrisdanity),
government, race and every other means, device and Issue that will
accrue in their benefit. Today, however, in the wake of the re-
cent farce we call election, we want to study the Divide and
Conquer technique, how it applies to the White Man's political
demise, and what we must do to overcome it in order that we may
oust the Jew from our society and once again have the White Man
regain control of his own destiny.

	Let us once again look at the Divide and Conquer technique,
which in essence is very simple.

	If you were locked up in a dungeon with two powerful brutes,

                     97

and you yourself were a 97 pound weakling, and all of you were hostile
to each other, it would seem that as a comparative inferior your
chances of survival would be slim. If, however you were cunning
enough to whisper incendiary provocations into the ears of the two
brutes, one at a time, about what insults the one had said about the
other, and goad them into a life and death fracas, your chances of
survival might greatly improve. If you egged them on until they beat
each other senseless, then you could easily finish them off separate-
ly and without too much effort.

	This is exactly what the Jews have been doing to the White
goyim for centuries. Divide the dumb brutes up into two hostile
camps, incite them to war and let them beat each other senseless.
We fell for this ruse in the Civil War, we did it again in World War
I, again in World War II, to cite a few major examples, although the
list is endless. We can cite the Hundred Years War, or the Thirty 
Years War. No maner which we choose, White Men killed other
White Men and each time the parasite reaped a Jewish harvest in
power and monetary gain.

	The same insidous technique is utilized in the field of
political action, which comes under the fraudnlent label of
demonracy. The Jews line up two (or more) political parties, all of
which they control with their financial power and their controlled
press.

	In America in the Twentieth Century the Jews have utlized main-
ly two  political parties,  namely the  Republican party and the
Democratic party. Occasionally, they have thrown in a third party,
such as the Bull Moose Party of Teddy Roosevelt which split the
Republican Party, derailed William Howard Taft and slipped in that
Jewish stooge, Woodrow Wilson. With hls election the Jews assured
themselves of ramming through the Federal Reserve chicanery of
1913 and staging the most ghastly war up to that time, World War
I.

	Since then the Jews have utilized the third party ruse a few more
times, such as the American Independent party, the Libertarian par-
ty, the Populist Party and a few others, but they have been of minor
import, except to further confuse and spilnter the White voting block,
a block that for all practical purposes hardly exists.

	Now that the Republican Reagan administration has won the
last election by a landslide and the Democratic Party is in shambles,
I foresee a steady but rapid drift towards one party rule similar to
that of Mexico, and finally a hard-core Jewish communist dictator-
ship as in Cuba and in Russia. All the while the Jews will be
trumpeting the virtues of democracy and how great Is our freedom
of choice and our freedom of speech. Let us wake up and realize
one thing. Democracy and its multitude of political parties

			    98

have not benefited the White Race. On the contrary, democracy
has been a treacherous Jewish tool for the destruction of our
superlative culture and our precious gene pool. Let us not be fooled
any longer. Business as usual, politics as it now exists, is not going
to help save the White Race from its one-way, helter-skelter onrush
to self-destruction. The Republican Party is not going to save us,
neither is the Democratic Party, nor the Libertarian Party, nor the
Populist Party.

	Conventional politics as far as the White Race Is concerned is
now as dead as a dodo, and a hopeless exercise in futility. Not that
we don't want to seize political power. On the contrary, that is our
Number One goal. We Creators have said time and again that none
of the muiltitudinous problems that beset us today will  ever be solved
until the White Man again grasps control of his destiny into his own
capable hands. But playing the game of Jewish politics as now con-
stituted is not the way to achieve this lofty goal. The day of political
parties is gone forever as far as the White Race is concerned.

	How then do we go about taking over political control of the
government of America in particular, and of our own destiny in the
world in general?

	The answer is loud and clear. The means is building a
worldwide ideologiul movement based on race, the same
means, the miserable, parasidcal jewish minority has so suc-
cessfully used for centurlies to gain control of the world. In
total dedication to an ideological movement will The White
Race find its salvation.

	How do we go about formulating such an ideological racial
movement? The answer to that, too, is loud and clear. In CREATIVI-
TY we already have it - complete, comprehensive, consis-
tent and fully spelled out. It is now every White Man's duty to
promote it to the hilt and convince his White Racial Comrades that
the answer to the White Man's dilemma lies before him - right in
front of his eyes. All he has to do is examine it, embrace it and join
with his White Racial Comrades to expunge the curse of history -
the treacherous Jewish network.

	DELENDA EST JUDAICA! We must destroy the beast that has
been the disastrous plague on the body of the White Race for millen-
niums. The means is our own racial religion.

	Strangely, this idea, which is so obviously logical, or should be,
has escaped the White Race since the very beginning of civilization.
It is a powerful idea that must be brought home to the consciousness
of every White Racial Comrade until it becomes an integral part of
our very being. All we need do is look at history to observe the power-
ful stimulus of a creed, a religion or an ideology has proved to be
in moving people, events and changing history.

			       99

	I have already chronicled the powerful instrument Judaism has
proved to be for the benefit and advancement of a miserable
parasitical tribe. I have done so in Nature's Eternal Religion, in the
White Man's Bible and in any number of issues oi Racial Loyalty so
there is hardly a need to again reflect it here. Whereas Judaism is
probably the most outstanding example in demonstradng the power
of a racial religion, we can, nevertheless, quote any number of other
historical examples.

	1. MOHAMMEDANISM
	When Mohammed came forth out of the desert in the seventh
century with what was essentially a racial religion, he fired the
Bedouin desert tribes (mostly Arabs) with such fanatic religious zeal
that this loose group of shiftless and lazy mud races soon were
amalgamated into a powerful army of world conquerers. Egypt, Syria,
Asia Minor, North Africa, Spain and Constantinople fell before the
fanatic Moslem onslaught. They pushed on eastward into India and
converted by fanaticism and by the sword.

	At the other end of the crescent, the Mohammedans pushed up-
wards from Spain into the very heart of France, where they were stop-
ped by Karl Martel (Charles The Hammer) at the Battle of Tours in
732. Had that battle been lost, perhaps all of Europe, then wallow-
ing in the Dark Ages, might have succumbed to the Moslem Creed.
It was at a Hme when the White Race was at its lowest and weakest
level.

	2. AYATOLLAH KHOMEINI IN IRAN.
	To further demonshate how long lasting, how powerfuI, how
much more significant a religious creed can be than a mere political
party we can take Moslem religion forward into histnry another thir-
teen centuries from its founding, and look at its significance in the
Arab world of today.

	When we look at the chaotic mess that is the Arab world of the
1980's we And there is one, and only one, powerful, cohesive force
that binds them all together all that is the Moslem religion.
The Jews have done a powerful number on the Arab states also and
fractured and fragmented them seven ways to Sunday. The Jews have
used the Divide and Conquer technique on them as well as in
trying to set up their parasitical state of Israel.

	But nevertheless, it is the powerful force of the Moslem creed
that binds the Arabs together, and it is this that the Jews fear.

	How powerful this force can be is aptly demonstrated by
Ayatollah Khomeini in Iran. When in 1978 The Shah of Iran held
an iron group on that oil rich nation, and one of the most powerful
and ruthless secret police forces at his command, the Ayatollah was
sitting in Paris, a lonely refugee and a political outcast. But the
religious fervor of his Moslem followers welled up day after day in

				100

street demonstration, in rebellion, in sabotage and just woudn't quit
Despite the supposed backing of the United States, we all know what
followed. The Shah was deposed, died as a miserable and unwanted
refugee in a foreign land, and the AyatoIlah emerged as the now vic-
torious dictator of Iran, where he still rules with a bloody and tyran-
nical hand today.

	In so saying, I am not condoning the Ayatollah, whom I con-
sider a political idiot, and vastly more brutal and tyrannical than the
Shah. But what it does demonstrate is the power of a religious move-
ment in the political affairs of a country.

	Nor is that all. This same religious-political take over of Iran
has fired up the whole Arab world and inspired the other Moslem
countries to a racial fervor not witnessed for centuries. Their fervor
and hatred is directed not only against Israel, but against all Jews,
and against the White world, and in particular that scape goat for
all White transgressions, the United States of America. In putting
the finger on the United States, the Arabs are not totally in the wrong.
Being at the mercy of its Jewish masters, the United States since
World War II has meddled in the affairs of more countries, caused
more wars, revolutions and problems in the world than any country
in history in a similar short period of time.

	In summary, considering the poor racial material the
Arabs and other racial misfits that embraced Moham-
medanism had to work with, this religious creed never-
theless has been a most powerful and cohesive force for the
Arabs, far beyond comparison to any mere passing political
party that has emerged in the last 13 centuries of its
existence.

	9. THE BLACK MUSLIMS IN AMERICA. Let me again state
flatly that the nigger in America has no future in our civilized culture,
nor does the nigger have a meaningful future anywhere else in the
world, including Africa. The nigger is inherently dumb, shiftless and
lazy and is one of Nature's most flagrant failures.

	Nevertheless, with the advent of the Black Muslim religion in
America it has worked wonders, considering the miserable material
it has had to work with. Whereas the Black Muslim religion is a mish-
mash, a mixed bag, an abortion at best, lamely tring to ape the
Mohammedan religion, it has done much to install black pride (where
there is little to be proud of), a sense of purpose and destiny (going
nowhere) and above all, created an independent cohesion among
hese bastardized animals that poses a highly potential danger to
the White Race. In the racial upheaval that is bound to come within
less than a decade, these black animals will be armed and organiz-
ed and will be the spearhead of the black killers the Jews plan to
unleash on an unarmed, disorganized and hapless White Race.

			    101

MARK MY WORDS.

	Now I Implore my White Racial Comrades: if these mongreliz-
ed black animals can mount an organized threat to the White Race
even though they are inferior in numbers, in intelligence, and in
resources, and can do so with a muddled, haphazard plece of gar-
bage that passes for a religion, how much better can the intelligent,
resourceful White Race do with a well thought-out,  organized
religious creed and program that is complete, comprehensive and
consistent, and embodies the ultimate racial idea of Nature's Finest?
So why don't we get busy and do the fob that must be done?

	4. I could cite a number of other examples of the power-
ful influences a religion, even though half baked, can work on a group
of peoples, races or nations. A few of these other examples are the
mormons, the Moonies, the Seventh Day Adventists, Jehovah's
Winesses, the Pentecostals and any number of others. I rould detail
their history, their struggles and the tremendous influence they have
had on their followers, and of the financial empires they have built.
could also cite the considerable power structures they have built.
that could have been directed towards the survival, expansion and
advancement of the White Race. I could do so, but I do not have
the name or the space to do so here. All I can regretfully say is that
as far as benefits to the White Race are concemed most of the money,
resources, energy and goals have been misdirected and wasted on
(a) throwing it all down a bottomless rathole, and (b) glorifying the
ego, and enriching the coffers of its deceitful hierarchy, who are by
and large, nothing more than polished con-artists.

	5. My own Political Experience in trying to work within
the Political Establishment.

	As you probably know, If you have read NATURE'S ETERNAL
RELIGlON (Chapter 22. Part II, "My Own Spiritual Awakening"),
at one Name in the middle 1960's I was naive enough to believe I could
get into politics and do my bit in trying to change the course of events.
soon found out I was wrong.

	In 1966 while still affiliated with the Birch Society. I threw my
hat in the ring and ran for the Florida State Legislature as a
republican, and, against odds, I was elected. When I got to the
regislature in Tallahassee and the power establishment found out
that I would not go along with the chicanery, my own part turned
against me. In a situation not unlike that of Tom Metzger in 1980
in California. I soon found out that with the Jewish news media
against you, with your own party against you, a sincere candidate,
any candidate in politics, is soon on the outside looking in.

	In short order in 1967 the Supreme Court decided Florida had
to "re-apportion", and had to have new elections all over again. In
the "new" election I opted to run for the Florida Senate and was

				102

roundly defeated when the Republican Party bosses and the news
media turned hostile against me.

	The biggest (and only) main headline I ever got in my hometown
paper of Pompano Beach was "KLASSEN DEFEATED". It was the
main, big biack headline on the hont page the day aher the elec-
tion. To my credit, I must add that tn my own precinct in Lighthouse
Point where I was personally known, I won overwhelmingly. A small
compensation.

	The positive outcome of all this was that I learned one hard and
irrevocable lesson- you cannot hope to win by collaborating with,
and working within the Jewish establishment. You cannot overcome
the enemy by playing the game by the enemy's rules. You cannot
expect the enemy to collaborate and throw a few crumbs your way
by collaborating with the enemy. No! The enemy is ruthless and the
battle we are locked into is a matter of life and death!

	I started groping for a new answer - a new means.
	Three years later, after several false starts, I had the answer:
a powerful new racial religion for the White Race was needed, and,
indeed, had been needed for millenniums!

	I started putting together the pieces. I started writing NATURE'S
ETERNAL RELIGION.

	Today, fourteen years later, I am convinced that we have the
total answer, the only answer. In Creativity we have the Total
Program, the Final Solution, the Ultimate Creed.

	Hitler has said that there are obvious truths lying around on the
streets and most peopIe pass them by, ignoring them because they
are too dumb to see the obvious. He was referring to the racial issue.
As it was in Hitler's time, so it is in White America today, regarding
not only race, but also religion.

	The Church Of The Creator has come a long way since we
published NATURE'S ETERNAL RELIGION IN 1973. We have for-
tified and completed our creed and program with two further basic
books, namely The WHITE MAN'S BIBLE and SALUBRIOUS LIV-
ING. We have now established a World Center for our movement
the Blue Ridge Mountains of North Carolina. We have launched
our own conveyor belt for spreading the word, namely RACIAL
LOYALTY, our official periodical for our religious movement. We
are building a Scbool for Gifted White Boys, which is now near-
comyleted and ready to open next summer. The foundations for
the White racial religion have been laid for the next million years.

	But Rome wasn't built in a day. One of the biggest problems
we have to overcome is the hubris, the jealousies and the
roadblocks thrown in our path by our own White Racial
Comrades, by the multitude ot splinter grounds who at best have
a confused, meaningless and fractured approach to the monumen-

			      103

tal problem that confronts us, but would rather torpedo a meaningful
solution than give up their pointless and eccentric little hangups.

	The biggest problem that confronts us is not overcoming the
Jews, niggers and mud races. The main problem is straightening out
the muddled, confused and suicidal thinking that lies on the brain
of the White Man like a poisonous drug, or like the virus of
encephalitis.

	Like Adolf Hitler did in uniting the German peopIe, it is now the
task of the Church Of The Creator to unite all the White peoples
of the World into one mighty movement - into one powerful batter-
ing ram. We can never do so as long as we have 20,000 confused,
effective little groups that neither understand the total problem,
nor even profess to have a solution, but by and large, only bitch -
deplore and lament, deplore and lament. Not only is this the extent
of their approach, but when a movement comes along that has a
comprehensive creed, purpose and solution these same little "leaders"
then turn their full invective on such a movement in order to protect
their own little hubris.

	In the meantime, we want to re-emphasize the solution. In
CREATIVITY we have the answer, the total answer, the whole ball
of wax. It is complete, it is comprehensive, it is consistent. It is in
harmony with the Eternal Laws of Nature. It derives its hard earned
conclusions from experience and lessons of history. It is based not
only on Logic and Common Sense (a rare commodity) but also the
inherent stirrings of the White Man's Soul. Why not join with us and
build! build! build! a mighty White racial-religious movement that
can and will steam roller and crush the vicious enemy once and for all.

             * * * * *

	We Creators are determined to solve the pro-
blem, not just endlessly agonize over it.

	     * * * * *

	Democracy and Christianity must be replac-
ed by the LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLE and by
CREATIVITY.

	     * * * * * 

	We  Creators  don't  straddle  issues.  We
delineate and resolve them.

	     * * * * *

		104
 
             * * * * *
	
	Now that 1984 is almost past, RESOLVE
that as a White Man you will never again be a
slave to Jewish Christianity or the Jewish tax
collector.

	    * * * * *

	Democracy and Christianity have spelled the
death knell of the White Race.

	    * * * * *

	We cannot win a war of ideas if we have
nothing more than a mixed bag of unresolved
shibboleths to fight with and for. The White Race
must polarize in order to survive.

	    * * * * *














                105
