Issue Number 26, July 1985

Saving our Precious Planet
     from Becoming
a Chemical Garbage Dump
  and a Human Pigsty.
    The subject we are addressing is most urgent. This beautiful
Planet Earth, our one and only home, past, present and future, is
being raped and desecrated, poisoned and polluted to the point where
it will not be fit to live in, or on. For an intelligent, orderly people
such as the White Race has been, it will not only be an unfit domicile,
but it will soon be impossible to live here at all, and there
is no place else to go. The multitude of factors that are destroy-
ing what is left of our habitat are all rapidly converging to produce
one consummate catastrophe - the destruction of our natural en-
vironment, and with it, the demise of the human race - especially
the White Race.
   What are these factors that are closing in on us? They are
manifold, but we can narrow them down to a few basics. They are
   (a) Our rapidly exploding technology, created by the genius of
the White Race itself, and now threatening to destroy us. Besides
the doomsday threats of the atom bomb, the neutron bomb and the
hydrogen bomb to end all life in a cataclysmic thunderclap we have
a slower and an even more certain threat from the burgeoning
chemical industries. If the hydrogen bomb doesn't set us, the
chemicals that are increasingly proliferated into our air, water and
soil will surely poison us, even if it takes a little longer.
    (b) The second major factor that is helping push the environ-
ment into a planetary garbage dump is greed nd the Jewish
monetary system that feeds it. At the center of this financial
monster is the Federal Reserve System, a worldwide gang of ruthless
Jewish counterfeiters. This gang controls our money and controls
the course of world events. But they do more than that. Through
their sleazy business practices, their monopoly of propaganda  and
every other important factor in our lives, they have so corrupted the
minds and lifestyle of the White Race itself to the point where the
White Man has now wholeheartedly joined in with these bandits in
the destruction of our environment, our civilization, and the White
Race itself.

                               210

 Since I have already thoroughly exposed the Federal Reserve
in Creative Credo Number 40 of the WHITE MAN'S BIBLE (The Brutal
Truth about inflation and Financial Enslavement - The Federal
Reserve Board - The Most Gigantic Counterfeiting Ring in the
World), and also widely distributed our booklet of the same name,
I will not review that subject again here. Since it to say that the
greed and avarice of this vicious gang of Jewish counterfeiters is at
the heart of the pollution problem, as it is, in fact, of practically all
of the world's major problems.
   (c) The third ma]or factor is the insane obsession of the
Jewish network as a whole to promote race mixing, especially
miscegenation of the White Race with all the scum of the world,
(while the Jews themselves remain intact and aloof from any such
diabolical program). In the effectiveness of this program lies also the
fate of the world's environment, and conversely, in the reversal of
the program lies the only hope of having this planet from
becoming a poisonous garbage dump and a human pigsty.
   The heart of the Creativity program is four dimensional: A Sound
Mind in a Sound Body in a Sound Society in a Sound Environment.
Since these four dimensions are all part of the whole and are in-
divisible. the whole subject of environment is, Indeed, very germane
to our religious philosophy. It is an extremely comprehensive sub-
ject and I will endeavor to project the position of The Church Of The
Creator in five separate installments.
   Part I Chemical Pollution and the Impossible Disposal Thereof.
   Part II Radio-active Wastes.
   Part III Poisons in our Drinking Water.
   Part IV Pathological Pollution by means of Legal and Illegal
Drugs.
    Part V Genetic Pollution and Saving our Gene Pool.
    There are several other kinds of pollution in modern times that
are running rampant and to which we are increasingly subjected.
Some of these are (a) noise pollution (b) radiation pollution by
microwave and radio-active substances (c) religious pollution (d) mind
pollution by propaganda, and (e) a number of other forms of destruc-
tive pollution.
   Since this subject is too comprehensive to be treated in a limited
dissertation such as this periodical I will confine this basically to the
five segments mentioned earlier. Even these will be of limited scope
and will concentrate on (a) arousing awareness of the threat and (b)
what we of The CHURCH OF THE CREATOR can and must do
about it.
   PART 1.  CHEMICAL  POISONS  AND  THE  DISMAL
FAILURE TO DISPOSE OF AN INCREASING OVERLOAD OF
HAZARDOUS WASTE.

                       211

   Increasingly, we have read of the crisis of hazardous waste in
a number of seemingly isolated communities where the inhabitants
woke up one morning and found that unbeknownst to them, their
land, their streets, their water and their air was so polluted with tox-
ic chemicals that they were being slowly but surely poisoned. Sur-
prise! Surprise! Someone had stealthily been dumping tons and tons
of poisonous wastes in the "backyard" of their community for years
and now they were stuck with it. These poisons had now seeped into
the ground water, into the aquifer,  into their wells, and yes, had
even been sprayed on the streets as a clever way to disguise and
disperse these poisons. Now, too late, these unwary citizens had
make an agonizing decision: abandon their homes and life's savings
and move "elsewhere," or suffer the slow death of toxic poisoning.
   Although hundreds of such incidents preceded it, it was not un-
til the major disasters of Love Canal in 1978 hit the front pages
and temporarily pre-empted the evening news on TV that some peo-
ple began to realize that we had a major pollution problem.
   However, the Love Canal tragedy was only the tip of the iceberg.
In that incident rain popped leaking drums out of the ground on a
black tide of long buried chemicals. High incidents of birth defects,
cancer and other pathological diseases among the local citizenry also
began popping up at alarming rates. it drove hundreds of families
away from their homes in Love Canal, and permanently disabled or
killed many of its former citizens. Protracted litigations and attemp-
ted clean-ups are still going on, and will continue to do so for years.
   But let us look at a few other cases that are becoming more and
more common.
   Verna Courtemance is a former school teacher who lives at
Swartz Creek, a country crossroads 60 miles northwest of Detroit.
Her former neighbor, Charles Berlin and his partner opened a hazar-
dous waste incinerator in 1972 next door to Verna's home. The in-
cinerator, often overloaded, smothered the countryside in acrid
smoke so dark and dense that firemen on the horizon would take
it for blazing houses and race over. The corrosive murk turned con-
vertible car tops into literal rag tops. It reddened children's faces with
rashes and swelled eyes shut.
   Verna and friends harried state officials by telephone, rally and
letter for four years before Berlin's smudge pot was shut down
permanently.
   Did Barlin ever indemnify his neighbors for the massive
damage be had caused? No. In 1980 he declared bankrupt-
cy, abandoned the site, and left someone else to clean up
the mess and carry the burden.
   During the next three years investigators unearthed behind his
incinerator five storage tanks and the first of 33,000 drums. They

                                212

were bursting with waste that Berlin had been forbidden to burn, yet
still allowed to haul - from chemical plants, auto factories, steel
mills, refineries, railroads.
   Verna and her neighbors led a decade long fight to finally get
a federal an state cleanup underway. In the meantime, citizens liv-
ing near the incinerator and its accompanying foul, poisonous lagoons
saw their homes become worthless and their health severely
impaired.
    Now, with a (partial) cleanup underway, 50 trucks a day rumbl-
ed past Verna's house for weeks last summer ferrying contaminated
soil from a nearby field to a landfill in Ohio. To purge the field of
toxic metals, used motor oil, drug and dye by-products and other
industrial wastes, backhoes and bulldozers have scooped and scraped
up 120,000 tons of earth. But that is only the beginning.
   Will it ever be cleaned up? No, not likely, at least, not in the
present generation, and it certainly will never be restore to its former
condition. And what about the "landfill" in Ohio to which this mess
of poisonous garbage is being hauled? Well, it too, will be an eyesore
and a health hazard in short order, and remain such until the local
people there wake up and find they have been sandbagged. All the
cleanup really has done is reshuffle the poisons from one place it was
not wanted to another place that nobody wants it either, but had not
organized its opposition (as yet).
    Michigan and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
have so far spent six million dollars at Swartz Creek, and some of
the 200 firms whose waste was dumped there have pledged 14 million
dollars more. Many tons of tainted soil remain, leaching toxic con-
taminants into local aquifers with every rain. To just so much as
map groundwater pollution will take many years, and while it is be-
ing mapped it will be further spreading. Eliminating it, if such is ever
possible, will take decades. How to eliminate it, nobody really knows.
   As the cleanup at Swartz Creek progressed, find followed find.
In the poisonous stew of one holding pond, one million gallons of
oily muck was laced with polychlorinated biphenyls - PCBs. Until
their U.S. production was halted in the late 1970's PCBs were used
extensively in hydraulic fluid, in coolants for electric transformers,
and in the manufacture of plastics. It now has become a universal
and persistent waste - one that accumulates in fish and causes
animal cancers.
   In  another  nearby  pond,  it  was  believed  that  drums of
hydrochloric acid and barrels of cyanide (that's the stuff they mix
in gas chambers to execute criminals) lurked like mines, needing only
a blow for their chemicals to leak, mix and form clouds of deadly
cyanide gas.
    When the pond was safely dredged in 1983, Verna and 165 other

                              213

evacuees cheered. However, they were premature in their optimism.
It was really only a reprieve.
   "We're prisoners," Verna said. "We are afraid to drink from our
wells, and out of town friends shy from visits. My sister-in-law won't
take gifts of my rasberry jam any more."
   Are Swartz Creek and Love Canal isolated cases? Far from it.
I cite them merely to drive home the devastating and far-reaching
ramifications only one dump site can create for the adjoining coun-
tryside. For example, near Seymour, Indiana, a 13 acre disposal
site was the dumping ground for close to 400 companies. Before a
(partial) cleanup was begun in December of 1982, it was found that
50,000 barrels of chemicals clogged the 13 acre site. Placed in that
leaking drums were such toxic wastes as cyanide, arsenic, PCBs,
toxic metals, solvents. naphthaline, and 200 pounds of explosive
material, enough to blow the whole 13 acre mess sky high and spread
it all over the countryside.
   Chemical Waste Management, the world's largest private
hazardous waste disposal firm, started a cleanup in December of
1982. Under threat of suit, 24 (of 400) of the polluting companies
have so far put up 7.8 million dollars to finance the surface clean
up. Other firms have agreed to contribute another 5.5 million to
purge pollutants from ground water and subsoil . Will they succeed?
Again, not likely. These sums are only a drop in the bucket to (par-
tially) help alleviate the harm that has been done. That damage,
however, is permanent and pervasive and no amount of money can
ever reverse the process.
   Another case in hand is TIMES BEACH, Missouri, which has
been so contaminated that it was unfit for human habitation. In 1983
EPA bought the whole town (with taxpayers' money) for 33 million
dollars and made arrangements to relocate its 2200 residents. The
culprit in this case was 2, 3, 7, 8-TCDD  one of a class of the
most highly toxic organic chemicals called dioxins.
   Ten years earlier the town's roads had been sprayed with oil to
control dust. Treacherously laced into the oil (and unbeknownst to
the townspeople) was an abundant dose of these same dioxins that
some company wanted to surreptitiously unload. Soil test in TIMES
BEACH showed that dioxin levels were as high as 1100 times the
level considered acceptable. Now TIMES BEACH is a ghost town,
but that isn't the whole story. The health, psychological and finan-
cial damage done to its 2200 former residents will never be undone,
not to mention the devastating and permanent environmental damage
to the townsite itself.
   Are these isolated exceptions? Not by a polluted country mile.
Partially as a result of the LOVE CANAL publicity, EPA in 1983
grudgingly started using some of its 1.6 billion dollar SUPERFUND

                                214

set up in 1980 to clean up the most dangerous of the hazardous waste
dumps.
   How many such dangerous dump sites are there? TIMES
BEACH, which we have just described, is only one of forty such sites
in the state of Missouri alone that is under investigation by the EPA.
The 40 sites are under investigation mainly for dioxin contamina-
tion (thousands of other toxic chemicals also proliferate the land-
scape). Even extremely small doses of dioxin can cause miscarriages,
birth defects, liver damage or death in laboratory animals. To guinea
pigs, for example, it is 200 times as deadly as strychnine. Does that
give you an idea of the magnitude of the poisonous threat that has
been spread over the landscape?
    But let us expand from dioxin and the state of Missouri.
    Just how big is the hazardous waste pileup on the national scale?
    The NATIONAL PRIORITIES LIST of the EPA continues to grow
as states other than Missouri scramble to locate dangerous site
within their borders. At stake are billions of dollars of federal cleanup
funds. By October of 1984 the EPA had designated or proposed 786
waste sites for the list. The agency estimates that the list may even-
tually contain at least 2500 emergency sites, but there are at least
16,000 known hazardous waste sites in the United States, all of
which, sooner or later, are a potential time bomb. Imagine 16,000
SWARTZ CREEKS, or TIMES BEACHES, or LOVE CANALS,
spread across the country polluting the land, air and water - poison-
ing its residents, killing its wildlife! Bat they merely reflect PAST
criminal negligence. Where is the increasing garbage of the
future going to end up?
    No one knows the true sum of our toxic wastes, but the 264
million metric tons regulated by EPA in 1981 would fill the New
Orleans Superdome almost 1,500 times over. Since 1950 we have
"disposed" of possibly six billion tons in, or on, the land, into our
water, or into the air - steadily increasing our potential exposure
to dangerous toxic chemicals that can cause cancer, birth defects,
miscarriages, nervous disorders, blood diseases, and damage to liver,
kidneys and our genes.
    But have we really disposed of these toxic chemicals or are they
really still there, accumulating in ever larger piles and dumps clos-
ing in on us, and threatening to turn the world into an uninhabitable,
garbage dump? Have we solved the problem? No, we have not. Is
there a viable solution in the future?
   Let us examine the ingenious methods that government and in-
dustry have devised to seemingly "dispose" of all these billions of
tons of toxic poisons.
    Well, they are not really so ingenious at all. Basically they con-
sist of dumping them somewhere that will be at least temporarily

                            215
less objectionable  -  until the surrounding territory itself, too,
becomes intolerably polluted and/or until such dumps invariably run
out of room.
   Here are some of the most prominent "accepted" methods:
   (a) Incinerators. Burn it and send the refuse into the at-
mosphere. This does compact the waste and somewhat reduce its
volume. It is not feasible, however, to do so with our most dangerous
wastes, such as toxic chemicals from petroleum refineries, chemical
plants, and manufacturing plants.
   (b) Landfills. It costs $50 to $800 per ton to incinerate wastes,
therefore most companies view it as a too costly means of disposing
of their toxic castoffs, three times as much as it costs to bury it. As
a result less than 1 per cent is cremated, and the cheaper landfill
is the first choice of most companies.
   But landfills, as we have seen from the experiences at Love
Canal, Swartz Creek and Times Beach are not a "disposal" at all.
They are merely a ticking bomb, accumulating to levels of intolerable
pollution at the site and the surrounding environment. They pollute
the soil, intrude into the aquifers and the ground water and soon
poison the soil.
    Nor is the attempted "cleanup" program any solution . It is merely
trying to redress an already overloaded area into another area where
it is also not wanted. Nor does it solve the mountains of future ac-
cumulations that are staring us in the face, year after year.
    (c) Running waste into sewage "treatment" plants, then runn-
ing it into our rivers, lakes or the oceans. This too, is a stopgap
measure and largely ineffective in the long run. Practically all our
rivers and lakes are now  overpolluted. Lake Erie, as well as any
number of smaller lakes, are now "dead" lakes so polluted no marine
life can any longer live in it, and many of our rivers have become
open sewers. (However, sewage treatment plants are not the only
Cause of this. The run off from farmlands plied with man-made
chemical fertilizers, herbicides and insecticides are also a major fac-
tor. But that is another story.)  
   (d) Another "ingenious" method is to pump the really bad stuff
down deep injection wells, to be imprisoned between layers of "im-
permeable" rock. At least, that is the theory. At least 60 per cent
of all toxic waste in the United States is disposed of in this manner.
For example, near Corpus Christi Bay one such well, located amid
numerous oil wells, swallows 6.5 million gallons of caustic liquids
a month from nearby refineries. It is shot down a mile underground
through layers of dense clay to the sands of an ancient sea.
   What happens to it then? Well, it spreads out, as it invariably
has to if it is to absorb 6.5 million gallons a month. Will it spread
to the nearby oil wells and come back up in the form of brine and

                               216
oil? Undoubtedly. Where else can it go?
   (e) Some European countries compress their wastes into com-
pact packages and dump them far out to sea. A dirty and irresposi-
ble method that among others is rapidly polluting the greatest
resource and expanse of our planet, the oceans themselves. They,
too, are limited in the abuse they can take.
   (f) Some send incinerator ships out on the ocean to burn the
refuse, thereby avoiding local pollution of the air, but nevertheless
adding it to the earth's already overpolluted atmosphere.
   (g) Some industries sell their poisonous wastes to gullible govern-
ment agencies on the basis that they will help promote health.
excellent example is the aluminum industry who for years had
thousands of tons of excess fluoride on their hands as a by-product
in the manufacture of aluminum. Then some bright exec came up
with the idea of selling it to the thousands of water treatment plants
across the country, as an aid to prevent tooth decay.
   The fact is fluoride in its inorganic form (the form to which it
comes to the water companies) is one of the most deadly poisons
known, and has the added danger of staying in the bones of those
who ingest it for years. It is a major ingredient in rat poison. Whereas
some fluoride COMPOUNDS that are organic (parts of plants, liv-
ing food) are compatible to the human body, inorganic fluoride, is
and will forever remain highly poisonous.
   Nor do even minute quantities of INORGANIC fluoride help
anybody's teeth. It will, however, cause pitting of the enamel, and
mottling the color of the teeth.
   (h) Many backward countries (like Mexico) simply run a sewer
line a mile or so out in the ocean and run all of their sewage, raw
and untreated, directly into the ocean. Some U.S. cities on the
coastline also once indulged in this dirty practice.
   (i) Millions of tons of waste go up the tall smoke stacks of
smelters, refineries and power plants to disperse into an already over
polluted atmosphere. Add to this the emissions from millions of cars,
trucks, diesel locomotives, airplanes and steamships, and you have
a floating garbage dump hovering overhead. As a result, we have
acid rain, polluted air and an ever increasing accumulation of CO2
in the atmosphere that in the long run is creating a "greenhouse"
effect, the inevitable result of which will be disastrous to the climate
and environment of this planet earth.
   (j) There are a number of other nasty little tricks, such as spray-
ing highly toxic chemicals on regular garbage and letting the gar-
bage man pick it up along with the rest of the garbage. Or some
smaller chemical companies have been caught running highly toxic
chemicals into the city sewer lines through secretly drilled connec-
tions. And other dirty tricks.

                                 217
   So far we have been talking mostly about the United State, a
highly industrialized country. What does the rest of the world do with
its hazardous wastes? Does the rest of the world fare any better?
   Well, hardly. There are any number of other countries such as
England, Germany, France, Italy and Japan that are also highly in-
dustrialized and whose cramped territory and dense population in
comparison make the United States look like a wide open frontier,
and their problems are even worse, much worse. We don't have the
time and space here to examine them in detail, although from
CREATIVITY'S point of view, we always think in terms of the whole
planet in all our future protections for the White Race. We are in-
tensely concerned about what happens in Germany, or in Japan, or
in Africa, or in South America. The White Race of the future will
either live or die, depending on what happens politically, economical-
ly, racially throughout the world, and at best it can only survive on
a planet whose environment is still viable.
   The environmental picture in the rest of the world is dismal, to
say the least. To cite a few examples: The beautiful Black Forest of
Bavaria is dying, in fact, half the forests of Germany are sick and
dying from acid rain and atmospheric pollution. The beautiful Rhine
River with its romantic castles has become an open sewer, a dead
river. In fact, the same thing can be said about most of the major
rivers of Europe. In Italy chaos reigns and it is an absolute basket
case. Japan, highly industrialized, densely populated, and a small land
area, has become so polluted that it has reached a state of crisis.
   The fact is that our whole planet is now badly overpolluted with
no more "vacant sites" for waste dumps or any other nooks or cran-
nies left to stuff the billions of tons of poisonous chemicals, industrial
wastes or just plain garbage. Yet all these hazardous wastes keep
spewing out in ever increasing amounts (1500 Superdomes full a year
in the United States alone) with no place to go.
   CONCLUSION.
   All this reminds me of a picture of a sign I saw in a
magazine several years ago. Some enterprising nigger (or
Jew) had put up a sign at the eastern tip of Long Island, say-
ing "This is as far as you can run, Whitey. This is the end
of the line." And so it is with the pollution crisis - this is the end
of the line. We either change course drastically or the White
Race will die of chemical poisoning in a polluted stew of its
own making.
   Is there any solution at all in sight? None whatsoever if we re-
main in the present Jewish controlled financial, political and cultural
miasma in which we are now engulfed, and are slowly drowning.
Neither the EPA, nor Congress, nor the president, nor the United
States government, nor the United Nations will ever come to grips

                               218
with the problem or even partially solve it.
   Why? because none of these agencies will ever dare
face the basic issue, which is racial.
   With the Jew in control, the mud races will continue their ex-
plosive expansion and the White Race will shrink and die. This world
will become a planet of utter chaos, overpopulated,  overpolluted,
without direction, without leadership. Mass starvation, riots, revolu-
tion and chaos will be the order of the day.
    But there is a solution and we CREATORS spell it out.
    1. Only the White Race can solve both the food and the pollu-
tion problems, but only for itself.
    2. Until the White Race gets the parasitic Jew off its back and
gets control of its own affairs, its own destiny, none of the world's
major (or minor) problems will be solved.
    3. Only through uniting under the banner of a powerful, realistic
racial religion such as CREATIVITY will the White Race ever be able
to smash the Jewish monster and take charge of its own destiny.
    4. Once it accomplishes Point 3, it still has an arduous task
ahead of it - cleaning up the racial, environmental and cultural gar-
bage of the world.
    5. The first step after Point 3, is to stop subsidizing the scum,
parasites and freeloaders both at home and abroad. We have no
obligation, moral or otherwise, to feed the Jews, niggers and mud
races of the world. Once in charge, the White Race will cease this
insanity and instead take care of its own people, its own survival.
    6. The mud races will wither on the vine and the population of
the world will subside to a level where this planet Earth can again
sustain a healthy viable population, by means of ever renewable
resources.
    7. We estimate this population to be no more than one billion,
perhaps less. But whatever it is, it is far, far better to have a clean,
safe, uncrowded world of healthy White people, properly fed, hous-
ed, clothed and governed than the overcrowded, poisoned hell that
is now staring us in the face.
    8. Agriculture as a whole must abandon chemical aids to farm-
ing, a disastrous course it adopted wholesale only 30 years ago. This
includes all chemical fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides. In the first
place, they are only a temporary shot in the arm, like heroin to a
junkie, and soon poison the soil as well as our food. Secondly, the
White Man doesn't need to produce a super abundance of food if we
quit feeding the hordes of mud peoples, now numbering more than
five billion. All we need to do is just take care of our own White Race.
    We must go back to Organic farming. only do it scientifically
- with more good sense and planning than we did before the "green
revolution " Chemical farming is one of the major causes of polluting

                               219
our streams, lakes, rivers and oceans. (See "A Sound Environment
- Getting back to Organic Farming and Living Soil.", in C.C. Number
13 of The White Man's Bible.)
   9. Remember, dupont's favorite advertising slogan, "There is
good chemistry between us," is a blatant lie. All man-made chemicals
are poisons and are more or less toxic to the human body. Thousands
of them, individually and/or collectively, are EXTREMELY toxic and
dangerous. There are no good inorganic chemicals. Once the White
Man is again in control of his affairs one of the first orders of business
will be to start phasing out the chemical industry as it exists today,
and eventually produce only organic and bio-degradable substances,
or at least reduce them to a compatible absolute minimum.




   Unless the White Race takes charge of its
own destiny, none of the pressing problems of the
World will ever be solved.



    Political Parties come and go.  Religions
endure.



   We Creators have no desire to either enslave
or exploit the mud races. It is our deliberate goal
for the White Race to inhabit this Planet Earth
in its entirety.



    Only Total Victory Can Save the White Race.








                       220

Comparative Religions - Part III

Christianity
    The Spooks in the Sky Swindle finds its ultimate
manifestation in Jewish Christianity.
   The fundamental premises of Christianity are based on a chain
of fictitious abstractions, which, taken either singly or col-
lectively from a bizarre nightmare that is an affront to any
thinking man['s intellect. These fictitious fantasies go something
like this.
   There are  spooks  tn  the  sky  -  somewhere,  anywhere,
everywhere, - who control our lives, who control world events and
control the universe. These spooks are omnipresent and continually
looking over our shoulders, taking notes and recording our every word
and every action. Not only our words and actions, but even our every
thought is put on record in that super-computer in the sky.
   Talk about the mass of material the Jews have in their super-
computer in Tel Aviv! But even that is small potatoes compared to
that super-duper computer in the sky needed to record every word,
deed and thought of the burgeoning 5 billion people now living, not
to mention all the garbage stored up for those already dead, but
waiting for "Judgment Day."   It must really overload the circuits in
the sky. No wonder we have repeated short circuits and flashes of
lightning up there on high.
   The fantasy goes on. When we die we will have all this ac-
cumulated garbage thrown back in our face. We will be held accoun-
table for every word, deed, thought, and woe betide! If you are found
wanting and meandered from the mainline, or made some mistakes,
it's the pits for you, the fiery sulphurous pits, that is. And since none
of us are perfect, guess where 99 and 44/100 percent of us will go.
Of course now there might be some exceptions, like the Jerry Falwells
who kow-towed obediently and subserviently to God's Chosen. But
you can never be sure, and that includes Jerry Falwell, the Pope and
Billy Graham. Who knows what evil thoughts might sometimes have
lurked in the dark recesses of their twisted little minds. Even Jimmy
Carter admitted there have been times when he lusted.
   Now not all these spooks in the sky are surveiling and taking
notes. Only the "good guys" are doing that. But spooks evidently
come in a great variety of forms, shapes and sizes and not all of them
are "good," in the eyes of the "Holy Scriptures." Like in the movies
you always have the good guys and the bad guys, so too, up there

                              221
in those nebulous skies on high, you also have the "bad" spooks.
These have names like Satan, Lucifer, the Devil, and a host of other
names. This is for the head honcho alone. But he is not alone. We
hear repeatedly in the Christian preachers' repertoire of hell-fire and
brimstone about "Satan and his minions;  and much more.
   The most interesting aspect of this whole concocted story is this:
whereas in the movies, where after a valiantly fought battle between
the good guys and the bad guys, usually (at least, it used to be that
a-way) the good guy wins and demolishes the bad guy and "his mi-
nions " not so in the battle on high.
   There the war goes on, and on and on. Although the Lord
(the good guy) is all-powerful and what he says goes (after all, it's
his set-up, he created all) nevertheless there is no victory over
the bad guy. The Lord and Lucifer have been at it now supposedly
for 6000 years, and are still locked into a Mexican stand-off. Well,
not exactly either. Satan is winning, hands down. For every one that
is "saved" from the fiery pit, Satan will get at least 99, probably 99
and 44/100. Evidently in this Spooks in the Sky story, the good guys
don't win. As Leo Durocher used to say, "the good guys come in last."
   Does this sound like a droll cock-and-bull story? lt does to me,
but you can go into any one of 200,000 Christian churches (in the
United States alone) and hear the same stupid story being preached
by hundreds of thousands of preachers, week after week after week.
Their versions might differ a little, but essentially that is the basic
story, the Gospel, the Lord's word or whatever. Not only from the
pulpit of all the Christian churches is this idiotic story being broad-
cast, but of late, even more effectively (and more profitably) from
the electronic con-artists employing the Jewish boob-tube.
    But that isn't the end of the story. Actually, the Lord and Satan
are really on excellent terms, as are the U.S. government and the
Russian communists. (Read again Creative Credo Number 50 in the
White Man's Bible, "Observations about the Devil and Hell.) The
main villain is not particularly suffering. Satan and God are having
a ball, playing games with us poor sinners, seeing who can come
up with the biggest score, and the game score was predicted even
before it began - the Devil is the overwhelming winner, hands down.
It is we, us no good, lousy sinners who are the real losers. It is we
who will be suffering in that fiery pit. It's a crooked, stacked set-up.
And what a ghastly torture chamber it is. Billions and billions of souls
will be burning in there, wailing and gnashing their teeth, (do souls
have teeth?) forever, and ever, and ever. No reprieve, no amnesty,
no "take five out," no knocking off for weekends or vacations. Just
a hardnosed 24 hours a day, 365 days a year of excruciating pain
and torture forever, and ever, and ever.
    What does the good and loving Lord think of it? Well, evidently

                              222
            he thinks its great sport. After all, he dreamed it all up, designed
the whole goddamned set-up, and will be running his torture chamber
from here to eternity.
    Evidently he deliberately wanted to put all of these billions in
the fiery torture chamber and torture the hell out of them, or he would
never have constructed his sadistic hell in the first place, now would
he?
   Where did such a bizarre mental nightmare come from? How
can so many hundreds of millions of people become ensnared in such
an idiotic booby-trap and at the same time be more than willing to
shell out 40 billion dollars a year in the United States alone to
perpetuate and perpetrate such fiendish and sadistic clap-trap on their
own children, their own offspring?
   It's a long story, and to go back to the beginning, we should,
I suppose, start with the Egyptians, the first really great White
Civilization in history.
   The Egyptians were a highly intelligent people. They had the
unusual advantage of living in the Valley of the Nile where for
thousands of years they where (more or less) sheltered from hostile
intrusion on all four sides. As a result they had a long time in which
to develop and cultivate their own civilization and their own culture.
This they did, and their civilization lasted for perhaps three thou-
sand years, a period of time longer than that of any other. It died
when their genes became poisoned by admixture with the inferior
black Nubians to the South.
   Whereas this mongrelization of the White Egyptian Race may
be deemed as a conquest of sorts by inferiors, it was not forced upon
them, but self-administered. This was a conquest of a most vicious
character that spelled the deathknell of the great Egyptian White
Race. It was the result of stupidity and criminal negligence in failing
to recognize (a) the precious value of their racial genes, and (b) how
to protect their gene pool from mongrelization and racial poisoning.
It can be categorized as one of the major tragedies of history.
   Be that as it may, their religion was in large part to blame for
This major tragedy, since hardly any White culture in Ancient Civiliza-
tion was so obsessed with the "spirit" world and life in the hereafter.
It is, in fact, the Ancient Egyptians, who had 3,000 years to evolve
their religion, to whom we are indebted for practically every fictitious
concept and abstraction for what later became Christianity. I have
listed these concepts before under Judaism, but I believe it is ger-
mane that I list them again. They are (a) the idea of a "soul" (b) the
idea of "eternal life" (c) the idea of "gods" (d) the idea of offerings
and supplications to appease the god or gods (f) the idea of baptism
(purification by ablution) (g) the idea of building grandiose temples
to supplicate and honor their gods (h) circumcision of the infants,

                               223
and a number of other beliefs, customs and rituals, including vague
ideas of heaven and hell.
   The second stage was the intrusion of the parasitic Jew into the
Egyptian domain. The uncreative Jews were shrewd enough to copy
most of the Egyptian concepts, and with a few modifications, in-
corporate them into a tribal Religion of their own, a religion
that at once was more pragmatic and at the same time utiliz-
ed to the utmost to preserve and enhance the fortunes of
the parasitic Jews.
   The third stage in the evolvement of the Christian religion was
set in the heart of the Roman Empire. When in the first century of
the Common Era (C.E.) Rome was at her height, the minor province
of Judea was one of its many conquests. When the intractable Jews
proved rebellious and obstreperous, Emperior Vespasian sent in
General Titus to quell the rebellion. This he did in a siege that lasted
less than two years. In the process he levelled Jerusalem to the
ground, in the typical custom of the day.
    But the Jews proved a tougher conquest than the Romans had
bargained for. In trying to "digest" the little province, the Romans
in fact were swallowing a racial poison, as history has later shown.
The Jews did not conquer the Romans by confrontation of superior
arms. On the contrary, they were so vastly inferior in this respect
that it would have been no contest. Instead they used their most lethal
weapon - religion, propaganda, deceit and intrigue - in all which
they had no rivals and still do not today. In short, they used the "B"
bomb - the brain bomb, in which they have been fantastically suc-
cessful. Christianity was their major weapon and Saul of Tarsus was
the key Jew to have instigated the conspiracy. The Jews sold the
once virile and warlike Romans a suicidal religion in which pacifism,
self-denial and self-destruction became the supreme virtues of the
new religion. In short, they turned the once aggressive, powerful
Romans into a chaotic mass of whimpering wimps.
   How did they do this? Well, Marcus Eli Ravage, a wily Jew
of the 20th Century, brags about it, and he tells the story better than
I can. (Read again "Confessions of a Jew" Creative Credo Number 43
in The White Man's Bible.)
   Basis of Christianity. The whole Christian religion is based
on a key figure called Jesus Christ, half man and half God, who is
supposed to have walked the face of the earth circa 1 to 33 C.E.
There is however not a scintilla of genuine historical evidence out-
side of its own concocted fables that such a character ever existed.
Although both the Greeks and the Romans of those times were highly
literate, no contemporary historian, poet, writer, or chronicler of the
times has ever so much as written a single line of corroboration of
all the cock-and-bull events claimed in the New Testament. It is all

                                 224
based on the supposed stories of "the Gospels" Matthew, Mark, Luke
and John, but no contemporary writer of the times ever heard of them
either, or, at least saw fit to take note of them. The few historical
"facts" that emerge is that these same fantasies had been pulled
together from pre-existing fables then extant, and were now peddled
as the genuine article. In fact, the story of a crucified "savior" had
been told in 16 previous other religions and was now being recycled
for the 17th time.
    Where did the suicidal ideas inherent in Christianity come from?
There is no mystery about this question, however. There existed on
the shores of the Dead Sea a small Jewish sect called The Essenes.
Their hero was the "Teacher of Righteousness" and they practicedü
communal living, self-denial and shunned marriage and family life.
But even more important, they taught and practiced pacifism and
promoted every suicidal concept (such as: sell all thou hast, love your
enemies, turn the other cheek, judge not) at least a century before
the supposed birth of Christ. The shrewd and wily Saul of Tarsus
(who later became the Christians' St. Paul) saw in their suicidal
teachings the very germ of a religion that could be utilized to destroy
the proud and haughty Romans. How successful he was and how
the Romans took the poisoned bait history has recorded.
    The Jews were successful beyond their fondest dreams and 1300
years of the Dark Ages set in as Rome crumbled. The Jewish poison
is still festering in the brains of hundreds of millions of White Chris-
tians today, and is the key to the Jewish domination, rape and looting
to which the White Race supinely allows itself to be subjected.

   Christianity is the philosophy of a born loser.

   It would do little good for the White Race
inherit  the Planet Earth  if all  we  inherit is
poisoned garbage heap.




                      225

Christianity us. Creativity
A Comparison
  Basic Goals
  CHRISTIANITY - To "save" peoples' "souls" from a fictitious
hell in the "hereafter," because God loves mankind so dearly. Why
the same Jewish God that created the victims also created a hell
to put them in, has never been explained. After this same loving God
"sacrificed" his one and only son on the cross to beef up the "salva-
tion" program, that program also failed miserably, and, it, too, has
never been satisfactorily explained.
    Christianity shuns life in the real world as of no value, but only
as a preparation for the "hereafter "
    CREATIVITY'S basic goals are (a) the Survival, Expansion and
Advancement of the White Race. (b) A Sound Mind in a Sound Body
in a Sound Society in a Sound Environment. (c) To Build a new, a
Whiter and Brighter World.
    Basic Books
   CHRISTIANITY is based on: (a) THE OLD TESTAMENT, which
is basically a self-concocted history of the Jewish Race (the Israelites)
and Jahweh's unending devotion to, and love affair with, this parasitic
tribe of Semites. There is not a shred of historical basis to its con-
cocted "history," nor is there any scientific evidence for its Creation
hypothesis of the World being "created" 6000 years ago in a 6 day
period. The Old Testament constitutes 75 per cent of the "Holy Bi-
ble" and never so much as mentions Jesus Christ. (b) THE NEW
TESTAMENT. It is all about the life of a circumcised Jew named
Jesus Christ, who supposedly lived circa 1-33 C.E., but again not
a shred of historical evidence to verify this story. The teachings of
Christ were already promoted by a small religious cult called the
Essenes, who pre-dated the supposed Christ era by a century.
   CREATIVITY - is founded on three basic books: (a) NATURE'S
ETERNAL RELIGION - lays the foundation for the religion of
CREATIVITY. (b) THE WHITE MAN'S BIBLE - reinforces and ex-
pands upon the first book, and introduces the idea of Salubrious Liv-
ing - a program for achieving the ultimate in superb health and
well-being. (c) SALUBRIOUS LIVING - spells this program out in
detail - including the details about nutrition, fasting, exercise, en-
vironment, and eugenics. Spelled out in 14 specific points.

                             226

Basic Beliefs are Founded Upon:
CHRISTIANITY - beliefs are based on the supernatural. Essen-
tially geared to denouncing the real world and focusing on a fictitious
heaven and a hell in the "hereafter." A collection of superstitions,
myths and fantasies that appeal to the naive and gullible, but are
an affront to any informed, reasoning man or woman.
   CREATIVITY - beliefs based upon reality - the Eternal Laws
of Nature, the life and welfare of the White Race on this Planet Earth.
Based upon the Experience of History, and upon Common Sense.
   Basic Attitudes
   CHRISTIANITY - promotes the idea that we are all equal in
the eyes of the Lord (except the Jews are his overwhelming favorite)
and therefore race-mixing is just great. Also, we owe the less for-
tunate (the niggers and the mud races) everything we have. We
should love them, marry them, feed them and house them. (Sell all
thou hast, love our enemies, etc.)
   CREATIVITY - takes a completely opposite view on the racial
position. We follow Nature's Eternal Laws, which clearly state: take
care of your own. CREATIVITY views mongrelization of the White
Race as the ultimate horror and does not view the Jews as "God's
Chosen." Rather it categorizes the Jews as mankind's most persis-
tent parasite, and a major disaster for the White Race. Our GOLDEN
RULE says it all: What is good for the White Race is the highest
virtue; what is bad for the White Race is the ultimate sin.

             * * * * *

   The Dark Ages of European civilization were
at their worst when Jewish Christianity was at its
peak.

   Spooks in the Sky: Unseen, unheard, unfelt,
unsmelt, unknown, unreal.





                    227

After 5000 years
Israel, A Parasitic Nation
Still unable to either sustain or govern itself.
    On the following pages we have reprinted an article that ap-
peared in the regular Jewish establishment press on June 1. In fact,
it appeared in the Atlanta Constitution, but that is not as significant
as that the headline in itself is misleading and belies the text of the
article.
   The headline would lead one to believe that the Israeli currency
is being kept sound, by some means or the other, evidently American
"floorboard dollars." However, this is a lie. there is hardly an
economy in the world that is as unstable and unsound as it is in Isreal.
Nor is there a currency in the world that is more worthless and sub-
ject to a higher rate of inflation. In the last year that rate has
sometimes bounced as high as an annual rate of 1300 per cent. The
Israelis themselves have absolutely no confidence in it, and trust
neither it nor their government.
   Despite the fact that Israel (thanks to the Jewish powerhouse
throughout the world, and especially in the United States) is the most
subsidized little nation in the world, it is a miserable place to live,
even for the Jews. It is racked with strikes, inflation, dissension and
discontent. This despite the fact that Israel is receiving at least 3.4
billion American dollars in free aid and charity from the United States
government (read U.S. taxpayers). Foreign Jews, especially from the
U.S., float huge bonds, which benefits are sent to Israel. On top of
that as many as 3.5 million Jews in Israel and other countries now
get "restitution" payments from a supine German government on top
of all the other loot they manage to finagle and extract from the goyim
abroad. All this thievery accrues to about $10,000 per year for each
Jewish family of four. Talk about successful parasites! Talk about
accomplished thievery! Who was it that said crime doesn't pay?
    Now you would think that with all this free subsidization,
ancient pesthole of the world would be rolling in luxury, a virtual land
of milk and honey, as the Jewish Bible likes to envision God's Chosen.
    But it isn't. It is a miserable place with no future of its own
not only has one of the highest inflation rates, but also one of the
highest emigration rates - Jews who have had a taste of their own
communistic brew are moving out. The only factor that keep the
entire population from disappearing is the fervent and misleading pro-
paganda in foreign countries inducing new Jewish victims to move in.
    The Jews are, in fact, as adept at lying to their own people as

                                228

they are to the goyim. But it can't last. Israel is doomed. As soon
as the White Race comes to its senses and stops subsidizing this
virulent pesthole, it will collapse like a pricked balloon.
   It is the goal and unswerving determination of the CHURCH OF
THE CREATOR to help bring this about as quickly as possible by
straightening out the confused, scrambled thinking of our White
Racial Comrades. Let us hasten this day. Without the misguided sub-
sidization by the White goyim Israel and the whole stinking Jewish
network would disappear faster than a snowball in the proverbial
Jewish) hell. Then, no longer protected by a subservient and toady-
ing United States, the 120 million hostile Arabs that surround Israel
would rapidly close in and demolish every last vestige of what was
once the world's foremost parasite.
   DELENDA EST JUDAICA
   Happy Day!


'Floorboard dollars' keep currency sound
across Israel               By Micheal Widlanski
    TEL AVIV - A bank clerk here the other day was trying to do "a good
deed" for a longtime customer, and, at the same time, for the crisis-ridden
Israeli government.
   "Now that your son was born " the bank clerk said to the customer,
"it would be a good idea to open up a savings plan in his name."
   "No thanks," responded the customer, warily eying the clerk. "I don't
want my money in the bank."
   "Don't be foolish," said the clerk insistently. "Here, you'll get a savings
plan where your savings (in shekels) will be linked to the dollar and to the
rate of inflation plus a few per cent interest."
    The wary customer did a quick bit of calculating before responding to
the attractive offer. He took into account that the government's rate for the
dollar - about 1,000 shekels to one greenback - was over 35 percent less
than the rate offered on the Israeli blackmarket, where one dollar brings
1,350 shekels.
    "I'm sorry," said the bank customer. "I'm just not interested."
    What the customer did not tell the bank clerk - but what the clerk pro-
bably knew anyway - was that he had put nearly all his savings into what
is popularly known here as "floorboard dollars," so called because most
Israelis have been keeping their savings in dollars or other hard currency
under their floorboards or under their mattresses.
    Most Israelis have come to the conclusion that the government, which
is short on revenues but long on expenses, will try to attack private assets
in some way or to lower its own debts by taking forced loans from private
bank accounts or by a one-time major devaluation of the shekel.

                                229

  Under the various scenarios, the worst nightmares of most Israelis,
the government will thus try to cover its own growing budget deficits and
decline in foreign currency reserves with private money.
   The Israeli government, whose budgetary expenses actually exceed its
gross domestic product of around $20 billion, has protested - in the per-
son of Finance Minister Yitzhak Modai - that it "will not touch the savings
of the individual Israeli."
   But Israelis have long since stopped believing in their government.
   "I don't believe anything they're saying anymore," declared Orah Lip-
sky, an American-born educator who lives in Jerusalem. She said she was
especially upset by the governments recent decision to raise the travel tax
to $300 along with another 20 percent on the price of airline tickets.
   For Mrs. Lipsky, her husband and two children, this means that what
used to be $2,000 trip to visit her parents in New Jersey has become over-
night a trip that costs close to $14,000 just for airfare and government taxes.
   "It's an outrage", said Mrs. Lipsky. "I feel like a prisoner of conscience.
I don't think they (the government) have any economic plan."
   Beyond the travel tax, the Israeli government also decreed that the value
added tax (VAT) - a kind of national sales tax on every good and service
- would rise from 15 to 17 percent.
   "What this gigantic government really has to do it cannot do because
it has to please 25 different ministers, and therefore it cannot cut public spen-
ding," asserted Nehemya Shessler, economic reporter for the liberal morn-
ing daily paper, Ha'aretz.
   In less than two months, the black market rate for the dollars has prac-
tically doubled as thousands of Israelis and Israeli institutions cashed in their
savings and pension plans and bought dollars on the black market or rush-
ed out to buy luxury items such as new cars.
    Already, however, senior government ministers are talking about im-
posing a new tax on all cars, no matter how old, owned by the public. This
would be in addition to the numerous taxes and customs levies on new cars
that have raised prices to astronomical levels.
   A mid-size sedan, for example, which would cost five or six thousand
dollars in Britain, Germany or the United States, costs "only" twenty-four
to twenty-nine thousand dollars (in shekels) here.
   Despite the high price of cars, however, Israeli dealers have reported
that all their stocks have been bought out through the end of the summer.
   "Everybody's buying now," said Danny Tzarfati, a car dealer here,
"because they know the government will only tax it even more."






                               230
