Article 6526 of alt.conspiracy:
From: plemkin@igc.org (Peter Lemkin)
Newsgroups: alt.conspiracy
Subject: 100 CONSPIRACY Q'S ON JFK ASSASSIN
Message-ID: <1299600016@igc.org>
Date: 30 Dec 91 00:21:00 GMT
Sender: Notesfile to Usenet Gateway <notes@igc.org>
Lines: 1278
Nf-ID: #N:cdp:1299600016:000:17631
Nf-From: cdp.UUCP!plemkin    Dec 29 16:21:00 1991


                J.F.K. ASSASSINATION 11/22/63

                  COINCIDENCE OR CONSPIRACY?




1) Why were over 58 eye-witnesses to the assassination ignored by
the Warren Commission when they said they felt shots had NOT come
from the Book Depository?  

2)  Why  did most persons in Dealey Plaza run up the Grassy Knoll
after  the  shots  while  the  authorities  ran   to   the   Book
Depository?  

3) Why were MULTIPLE rifles found at the Book Depository and then
all but one made to 'disappear'?  

4)  Why  were  ongoing  de-escalation  plans for Vietnam reversed
within 48 hrs of the assassination?  

5) Why were the ten persons taken into custody  in  Dealey  Plaza
all released, some without so much as their names taken?  What is
the evidence (officially ignored) that some of them were directly
involved?  

6) How was 'Watergate' and the ensuing Watergate scandal DIRECTLY
connected to the JFK assassination?  

7)  What  MULTIPLE lines of evidence connect the JFK, RFK and MLK
assassinations?  

8) What are the known (often frightening and bizarre) details  of
the  over 200 persons who were murdered or died VERY suspiciously
(and conveniently) after  11/22/63  because  they  had  seen  the
'wrong' things,  tried  to  speak  up, etc.?  Why did they die in
"clusters" when investigations  were  ongoing  -  sometimes  just
hours before they were to be questioned?  

9) Why was Nixon one of the few Americans who could not correctly
remember where  he  was when the assassination occurred?  Why may
he have 'forgotten' he was on a plane out of Dallas?  

10) Why could J.E. Hoover also not 'remember' he  was  in  Dallas
for a  meeting  just  days  before the assassination?  Why did he
show NO surprise at the announcement of JFK's death?  

11) What is the evidence that FBI informants  (perhaps  even  Lee
Harvey  Oswald  himself)  had  warned  the  FBI  of  an impending
assassination attempt on JFK which  the  FBI  ignored  and  later
denied even getting?  

12)  What  multiple  lines of evidence show Ruby and Oswald's FBI
and CIA connections?  

13) What documents are still being withheld from public  scrutiny
in the  National  Archives  and  WHY?    Why  'hide' any when the
government 'believes' the act was committed by a 'lone nut'!?  

14) Why did so MANY government  documents  involving  Lee  Harvey
Oswald   and  others  'disappear'  or  were  said  to  have  been
'destroyed' - including Lee  Harvey  Oswald'S  Army  Intelligence
files,  Lee  Harvey  Oswald'S letter to his FBI contact Hosty and
MUCH MORE?  

15) Why when Lee Harvey Oswald returned to the USA from the  USSR
was he NOT officially met by any representatives of the CIA, FBI,
State  Dept.  etc.,  but  WAS met by Spas T Raiken, a former Nazi
collaborator with  intelligence  community  connections  who  the
Warren Commission claimed was with 'Traveller's Aid'.  

16) Why was Marina Oswald sequestered in a hotel, surrounded with
intelligence  community  connected persons, coached as to what to
say and what she had experienced, and threatened with deportation
if she did not cooperate?  

17)  What   evidence   connects   EVERY   president   since   the
assassination  (with  the lone exception of Carter) directly with
the assassination or its cover-up!?  What are George H.W.  Bush's
connections to  the  events  of  11/22/63?   Why was his name and
address in Lee Harvey Oswald'S Dallas friend's address book?  

18)  Why  did  Jack  Ruby  repeatedly  implore  of   the   Warren
Commissioners  to  take him out of Dallas and to Washington where
he felt he could speak the truth?  Why did they NOT take  him  up
on his offer and pleas?  

19)  What  did  Jack  Ruby mean when he said that he was "no more
involved in a conspiracy than you gentlemen" when he spoke to the
Warren Commission?  

20) Why did Ruby suddenly contract cancer and die just before his
new trial was to begin?  

21) Why did Dorothy Kilgallan, the  only  reporter  to  interview
Ruby  in  prison,  die mysteriously days after she said she would
"break the case wide open" and her  best  friend  die  some  days
thereafter?  

22)  How  do  the  events of 11/22/63 and its immediate aftermath
STILL effect our everyday political and even personal lives?  

23) What Government agencies and other groups  were  involved  in
the  planning  and  execution  of the President and then cover it
up?  

24) Why was the single-bullet or "Magic  Bullet"  theory  of  the
Warren Commission a physical and medical IMPOSSIBILITY?  

25)  Why do those who played prominently in the assassination and
its 'investigation' continually show up in contemporary political
life?  Are they being 'rewarded' for a 'job well done"?  

26) Why did the U.S. Government deliberately LIE to the  American
People  and  World  about  what  they  knew  of the events of the
assassination?  Why do the CONTINUE to do so?  

27) Who felt threatened by JFK?  And who gained  by  his  murder?
Who  had  the  means to kill him and cover it up to look like the
work of a lone-nut?  

28) How was the  Media  sometimes  cleverly  controlled  and,  at
times, complicit in the coverage of events, facts and fiction?  

29) Which Mafia bosses and employees, many of whom worked for and
with the CIA, were involved in the assassination?  

30)  What  did LBJ mean when he said the U.S. Government had been
running a 'Murder Incorporated' down  in  the  Caribbean  in  the
'60's?  

31) Why did LBJ insist on being sworn in on Air Force One when he
was quite legally President AUTOMATICALLY upon the death of JFK?  

32)  Why were some of the very same persons who were in Dallas on
11/22/63 also just by  'coincidence'  near  the  RFK  murder  and
Memphis for the MLK assassination?  

33)  Why  did  so  MANY  fear  for  their lives in the wake of an
assassination by a (then dead) lone-nut?  Why  did  so  many  die
suddenly, mysteriously and 'conveniently'?  

34)  Why  did  the  FBI  not  react to an informant's report that
Joseph  Milteer  knew  in  detail  how  JFK  was  going   to   be
assassinated weeks  before  the  event?  Why did the public never
hear that Milteer  traveled  hundred  of  miles  to  witness  the
execution with  his own eyes?  Why was he never questioned by the
Warren Commission, House Select Committee or anyone else?  

35) Why were the few who attempted  to  tell  the  truth  of  the
events  harassed,  punished,  fired from their jobs, discredited,
intimidated, marginalized, threatened and often killed?  

36) Why did all those who met in  Ruby's  apartment  the  evening
Ruby killed Oswald die mysteriously thereafter?  

37)  Why did so many bullets and so much of the physical evidence
'disappear'?  

38) Who were the multitude of PHONY 'CIA'  and  'Secret  Service'
persons  (complete  with official looking ID) on the Grassy Knoll
and around Dealey Plaza on 11/22/63?    Why  were  they  stopping
persons from moving into certain locations?  

39) Why did the driver of the Presidential limousine slow the car
during the fusillade rather than accelerate?  

40)  Why did Secret Service men jump over the body of LBJ and not
JFK?  

41) Why were several of the Secret Service  agents  out  drinking
very  late  the  night  before  at  a  club  owned by a friend of
Ruby's?  

42) What did Jack Ruby know when he  said  "I'm  Jack  Ruby.  You
don't know me, but you soon will" just BEFORE the assassination?  

43)  What evidence is there that Ruby, Oswald and Tippit (as well
as others possibly involved) all knew and had been  seen  meeting
each other?  

44)  Why  was  so  much  evidence and testimony suppressed and at
times altered?  

45) Why to THIS DAY do many live in fear to speak  the  truth  of
what they saw or know of the events of Dallas 11/22/63?  

46)  Why  are  powerful  forces  trying  to discredit the new JFK
movie?  Why have 'critics' of the official version of events long
been subject to harassment, surveillance and more?  

47) Why were so MANY of the movies and  photos  taken  in  Dealey
Plaza  that day CONFISCATED by persons representing themselves as
government officials and NEVER returned nor shown to the public?  

48) Why do governmental and extra-governmental forces STILL  spin
dis-information stories related to 11/22/63 and its aftermath?  

49)  Why  were several witnesses offered bribes and/or threatened
by the FBI and others to NOT disclose  the  truth  of  what  they
saw?  

50)  Why were witnesses coached and badgered to get the testimony
the Warren Commission 'wanted' to hear?  Why were those who saw a
different scenario ignored or worse?  

51) Why did Warren suggest the Report NOT be  published  to  save
printing costs?  

52)  Why  and  how  did  police have a full description of Oswald
before those on the investigation scene could have assembled  any
information to lead to such a conclusion?  

53)  Why did some newspapers get information only the FBI and CIA
had on Oswald to print in  their  stories  within  hours  of  the
event?  Who leaked this information or had it on hand prior?  

54)  Why do so few know of the photos that show clear evidence of
a conspiracy and even show images of the other  conspirators  and
gunmen?  

55) What is known of the multiplicity of mysterious activities of
many in Dallas and Dealey Plaza that day?  

56)  Why  did  the  FBI  and  CIA  at the HIGHEST levels suppress
information and work to foil a real investigation into aspects of
the assassination?  

57) What were the  many  Nazi  and  Fascist  connections  to  the
assassination?  

58)  What evidence is there of MULTIPLE gunmen in the School Book
Depository and other buildings, as well as the Grassy Knoll?  

59) Why was 'Lee Harvey Oswald' repeatedly seen at several places
SIMULTANEOUSLY in the weeks before the assassination and who were
those impersonating him and why?  

60) What evidence shows that the person murdered by Ruby  is  NOT
the person exhumed from that grave?  

61)  Why  were  so many of the medical evidences tampered with or
made to 'disappear'?  Why were so many others seemingly altered?  

62) Why did someone construct forged composite  photos  to  frame
Lee Harvey Oswald prior to the assassination?  

63) Why did the JFK autopsy doctor who burned his notes and first
draft  of  the  autopsy report get a promotion shortly after this
obstruction of justice and/or alteration of fact?  

64) Why do the locations of wounds as seen by a team  doctors  in
Dallas  and  that  evening by another team of doctors in Bethesda
Naval Hospital NOT match in number or location!?  

65) Why  did  the  CIA  and  other  government  entities  try  to
discredit  and obstruct Garrison's investigation and frame him on
false charges?  Why were they so afraid of his investigation?  

66) Who was the Army Intelligence man in  and  around  the  Texas
School Book Depository?  

67)  Why  were  Jack  Ruby  and  several of the Dallas Police and
others  seen   repeatedly   at   multiple   assassination-related
locations in  Dallas that day?  How did they seem to 'know' where
the 'action' was - or was to be?  

68) Why do different documents and identifications of Lee  Harvey
Oswald  show  different  height and even different faces - not to
mention names?  What was Lee Harvey Oswald's  REAL  'mission'  in
the USSR and in New Orleans and Dallas after his return?  Who did
he work for?  CIA?  FBI?  ONI?  

69)  Who  were  the  several  different men seen fleeing from the
Plaza seconds after the shots rang out?  

70) Why did the eye-witness reports of persons  seeing  men  with
rifles  in Dealey Plaza before and during the shooting receive so
little 'official' attention and even suppression?  

71) Why was JFK's body ILLEGALLY removed from  Dallas  and  Texas
jurisdiction?   Why  did the FBI remove all of the other physical
evidence to Washington?  Why was a Grand Jury never convened?  

72) Why did the Warren Commission and FBI seem to repeatedly  and
consistently mis-spell the names of those who's involvement might
shed light  on  a  possible conspiracy?  Was this 'conspiratorial
dyslexia' on the government's part?  

73) Were  one  or  more  bullets  and  bullet  fragments  removed
secretly from JFK's brain as much evidence indicates?  

74) Why  was  his  brain never sectioned and studied?  Why and to
where  did  it  disappear  along  with  other  essential  medical
evidence?  

75)  Why do the descriptions of the size, color and other details
of the coffin JFK's body was placed  into  in  Dallas  NOT  match
those  his body was in when it arrived for autopsy in Washington?
Was there a 'switch' and  tampering  with  the  body  during  the
flight?  

76)  Why  were  the autopsy doctors ORDERED to NOT follow certain
STANDARD medical procedures and investigate certain wounds etc.?  

77) What was the Government's  role  in  obstruction  of  justice
after the fact...if not before?  

78)   Why  were  the  seven  particular  persons  on  the  Warren
Commission selected?  Why did several have intelligence community
connections?  Why were some enemies of JFK?  

79) Has our Government been 'illegitimate' since 11/22/63?    Are
we still living with the legacy of a coup d'etat in America?  Are
the 'coup' leaders still firmly in control?  

80) Is:    'ignorance    bliss'?       Does:   'knowledge   imply
responsibility'?  Does: 'silence equal complicity'?  

81) What can be done to understand and finally undo  this  entire
(long overdue)  situation?  Is Knowledge and Truth the first step
to talking back our country?  What ARE the facts?  Why  are  they
obscured from the average American?  

82)  Is  the  assassination  of JFK the PIVOTAL event of American
History since the Second World War?  Is an understanding  of  the
events   a  NECESSARY  precursor  to  understanding  EVERY  MAJOR
political event that has happened since - right up to TODAY!?  

83) Why did Jack Ruby suddenly have a dramatic improvement in his
financial situation just prior to the assassination?  

84) Why did several persons not 'officially' thought to have been
involved suddenly flee Dallas immediately after the Event?  

85) Why did the Washington D.C. phone  system  fail  for  several
minutes immediately during and after the assassination?  

86)  Why were most of the Cabinet conveniently and coincidentally
out of the country at the time?  

87) Why was the Navy man with the launch  codes  for  the  atomic
weapons separated  from  JFK and LBJ?  What foreknowledge did the
Military have?  What possible participation?  

88) Can the deaths and destruction at home and abroad in  Vietnam
and  ALL  the subsequent wars be understood by an analysis of the
JFK assassination?  

89) Was Lee Harvey Oswald a CIA agent, as much evidence seems  to
indicate?  

90)  Need  the  American  People  question  if our government and
institutions  of  government  have  had  ANY   legitimacy   since
11/22/63?  

91)  What  Right-Wing groups and Businessmen were involved in the
plot?  Why?  

92) Why were NO notes kept by ANYONE who interrogated Lee  Harvey
Oswald over a 48 hr period?  

93) Why  did  Lee  Harvey Oswald say "I am just a patsy"?  Was he
100% correct?  

94) Why does much evidence show that Lee Harvey  Oswald  did  not
even hold a rifle that day - and perhaps NOT even OWN one?  

95)  Why  did  then  Governor  Reagan refuse to extradite several
persons suspected of direct involvement in the assassination  for
trial and then get suggested as a Presidential candidate?  

96) Why did Lee Harvey Oswald have to be executed within 48hrs of
his alleged crime?  Was he 'supposed' to have been killed prior?  

97) How  did  Ruby  gain entry into the Police station?  Were the
police waiting for Ruby to enter before moving Oswald?  

98) Why did forces high in the FBI order  the  DESTRUCTION  of  a
note  Oswald  had  given to FBI agent Hosty in Dallas days before
the assassination?  

99) Why do CIA and other documents show a coordinated  effort  to
'destroy'   the   critics   of  the  Warren  Commission  and  the
Government's BIG LIE of the events of 11/22/63?  

100) Did America DIE along with JFK that day in Dallas  11/22/63?
Can we revive it and take back OUR country from the assassins and
their heirs?    Are  we  as  a  People  more  satisfied  with the
'COMFORTABLE LIE' or the 'UNCOMFORTABLE TRUTH'?!?  

*If you would like to read more  on  the  JFK  assassination  AND
DECIDE  FOR  YOURSELF  the  answers  to  the above questions, the
following footnoted sources are readily available: 


1) High Treason, Groden, Robert J. and Livingstone, Harrison  E.;
Berkeley Books, l990 

2)  On  The Trail Of The Assassins, Garrison, Jim; Sheridan Quare
Press, l988 

3) Crossfire, Marrs, Jim; Carroll and Graf, l989 

4) Conspiracy, Summers, Anthony; Paradon, l989 

5) Best Evidence, Lifton, David; Carroll and Graf, l988 

6) Plausible Denial, Lane,  Mark;  Thunder's  Mouth  Press,  N.Y.
l991 (HC) 

7) Act Of Treason, North, Mark; Carroll and Graf, l991 (HC) 

8) Spy Saga, Melanson, Philip; Praeger, l990 (HC) 

9) Mafia Kingfish, Davis, John H.; McGraw Hill, l989, (HC) 


DON'T   FORGET  TO  QUESTION  AUTHORITY  AND  SEEK  THE  TRUTH  -
YOURSELF!  BE AN ACTIVE PARTICIPANT IN HISTORY AND LIFE  AND  NOT
JUST A SILENT OBSERVER!  WORK TO EXPOSE THE TRUTH IN THE JFK,RFK,
MLK   AND   OTHER  ASSASSINATIONS  AND  THE  VARIETY  OF  'BLACK'
OPERATIONS  WHICH  HAVE  THREATENED  AND  ARE   THREATENING   OUR
DEMOCRACY  AND  BROUGHT  US  TO  THE  BRINK OF FASCISM AS WELL AS
MORAL, FINANCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL BANKRUPTCY IN AMERICA!  IF YOU
DO NOT ACTIVELY WORK TO PRESERVE YOUR RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS AND OUR
DEMOCRACY, REMEMBER - SOMEONE ELSE WILL BE  ACTIVELY  WORKING  TO
DESTROY THEM!  



