

                      ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY
                               OF
              BOOKS CONCERNING SOVIET STATE SECURITY
                 by Charles Trew   Burke, Virginia                     

       The following is a short collection of books concerning, 
either directly or indirectly, the Soviet Committee for State 
Security (Komitet Gosudarstvennoy Bezopasnosti, or KGB).  
       All of the books were written during the 1980's and are 
arranged alphabetically by author or editor.
       The list is not intended to be comprehensive. The list 
contains a wide range of authors. Among the group are scholars, 
government officials (active and retired), Soviet bloc defectors, 
and other people in positions that afford them the ability to
provide information on the Soviet state security apparatus. Some 
of the works deal only with the KGB. Others deal primarily 
with other topics yet, still provide insightful commentary on a 
specific topic concerning the KGB.       


                           INTRODUCTION

       During the late spring of 1989, at the Soviet Congress of 
People's Deputies, former weight lifter Yuri Vlasov made one of 
the harshest attacks on the Soviet Committee for State Security 
(KGB) in recent memory.   
       Vlasov, whose father disappeared in 1953, stated live on 
Soviet television: "This service sowed grief, cries, torture on 
its native land...The democratic renewal in the country has not 
changed the position of the KGB in the political system." Vlasov 
also made a number of other emotional and dramatic charges during 
his speech. At the conclusion of his remarks, the hall gave him 
an extended ovation.  
       The incident is, indeed, evidence of how far political 
changes have come to the Soviet Union. A very short time ago, 
Vlasov's comments would have placed him in very serious trouble. 
Yet, Vlasov is quite correct that the KGB has retained its power 
and privileged postion in the USSR.
       The organization that is now the KGB has undergone a 
number of reorganizations and name changes since the inception of 
the Cheka on December 7 (or 20), 1917. Although the organization 
was supposed to be temporary, the Cheka and its successors (the 
GPU, OGPU, GUGB, NKVD, NKGB, MGB, and now the KGB) have remained 
a key element in the administration of internal and external 
policies of the USSR. Interestingly, members of the KGB still 
call themselves Chekists in recognition of a hallowed tradition. 
       Despite the widespread public recognition of the 
organization's existence, few, even in the Soviet field, 
comprehend the full role of the KGB in Soviet society. Most 
frequently the KGB is compared to the American Central 
Intelligence Agency (CIA). However, the scope of activities 
carried out by the KGB include the functions that are carried out 
in the United States by at least a dozen Federal agencies.

                    ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY
                             OF
            BOOKS CONCERNING SOVIET STATE SECURITY
              by Charles Trew   Burke, Virginia



Barron, John. KGB Today. New York: Reader's Digest, 1983. 489 pp. 
       Contains photographs and index. 

       Barron, an editor at Reader's Digest, has written a number 
of articles and books on the KGB. He has benefitted enormously 
from CIA cooperation on his books. His access to government 
officials and documents, and a number of Soviet defectors, has 
allowed him to put together two of the best-selling works ever on 
the KGB (his previous work was KGB published in 1974 by Reader's 
Digest).
       Aside from providing a wealth of information, Barron 
writes in a style that is to easy read. He dosen't get too  
technical for the non-specialist or place footnotes everywhere.      
       For this work, Barron worked extensively with Stanislav 
Levchenko, a former KGB Major who defected while on operational 
assignment in Japan in the late 1970's (Levchenko has also been 
involved in two other works that will be discussed further on). 


Corson, William R. and Robert T. Crowley. The New KGB. New York:
       William Morrow and Company, Inc., 1985. Contains index and 
       photographs. 560 pp.

       Both authors are retired American intelligence officers. 
This work is a very well researched piece which covers many 
different periods of Soviet state security.  
       The objective of the work is to present the reader a 
"fresh way of looking at the current operations and global 
strategies of the new KGB." The authors argue that the KGB has 
taken on a more active role in Soviet government and has 
increased its dominance in the Communist Party of the USSR. 


Dzhirkvelov, Ilya. Secret Servant. New York: Harper & Row, 
       Publishers, 1987. 398 pp. Contains index.                                           

       A fascinating account by a former member of the KGB who 
defected to the West in 1980. Dzhirkvelov, who participated in 
many "direct action" operations, is particularly interesting 
because he defected for personal reasons and remains unrepentant 
for many of his activities. He is still an admirer of Joseph 
Stalin, for example, and some of the extermination operations he 
participated in against nationalist minorities in the USSR after 
WWII. A very unusual autobiography.      




Dziak, John J. Chekisty. Lexington, MA: Lexington Books, 1988.  
       234 pp. Contains index.                                             

       A very well written historical account by a senior 
intelligence official with the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA). 
The extensive documentation, frequently using Soviet materials, 
is invaluable. The bibliography is also quite useful. 
       This hard-hitting work has many classic quotes and 
comments including the infamous comment on the Soviet secret 
police by Felix Dzerzhinski, its founder: "We represent in 
ourselves organized terror --- this must be said very clearly..." 
(interview with B. Rossov, "From Our Moscow Correspondent," 
Novaya Zhizhin,' June 9, 1918, p. 4). Highly recommended work.             



Knight, Amy W. The KGB. Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1988. 348 pp. 
       Contains index.

       An excellent scholarly work by a senior analyst with the 
Congrssional Research Service of the Library of Congress.
       The focus of the work is the politcal role of the KGB in 
the government of the USSR. This work is very rich in 
documentation and detail and is definately more for a specialist. 
Other readers may find the work rough going. Researchers will 
find this work invaluable and very well balanced. Highly 
recommended work.            


Leggett, George. The Cheka: Lenin's Political Police. Oxford: 
       Clarendon Press, 1981 (reprinted with corrections as 
       paperback, 1986). 514 pp. With index.

       This piece is a masterwork of research by a British 
scholar. This book is one of the best works ever on the Soviet 
secret police, certainly on the Cheka. Totally comprehensive and 
"must reading" for information on the beginnings of Soviet state 
security.


Levchenko, Stanislav. On the Wrong Side. Washington: Pergammon- 
       Brassey's, 1988. 244 pp.                                   

       Levchenko was a member of the First Chief Directorate of 
the KGB (Foreign Operations) working in Japan. This book is his 
autobiography and covers the early years of his life and career 
up to his defection to the United States in 1979.
       This work is very Russian and emotional in style. While 
telling the reader about his life and career, Levchenko 
effectively illustrates the difficuly and strains of conflicting 
loyalties and beliefs. 


 

Pacepa, Ion Mihai. Red Horizons. Washington: Regnery Gateway,  
       1987. 446 pp. With index and photographs.

       A controversial work by a Romanian spymaster who defected 
to the United States in 1978. Pacepa had held a number of 
exteremely sensitive positions in the Romanian Securitate. One of 
his duties included directing the personal security of Romanian 
President Nicolae Ceusescu. His defection accelerated a massive 
purge being conducted in the Romanian Communist Party by 
President Ceusescu. Pacepa was debriefed by the CIA on a full-
time basis for three years following his defection.
       His remarks on the turbulent Romanian-Soviet relationship 
and Soviet control mechanisms over Warsaw Pact allies are 
insightful. 
 
  
Richelson, Jeffrey T. Sword and Shield. Cambridge, MA: Ballinger 
       Publishing Co., 1986. 279 pp.

       The author, a professor from the Washington DC area, has 
written a number of works on intelligence matters. 
       Compared to some of the other works available on the KGB, 
this work has pretty shallow research behind it. In a number of 
areas, up to 20 footnotes will be taken up using only two, maybe 
three different sources. Non-specialists may, however, find the 
work an easier read than some of the more thoroughly researched 
books.        


Rocca, Raymond G. and John J. Dziak. Bibliography of Soviet    
       Intelligence and Security Services. Boulder, CO: Westview 
       Press, 1985. 203 pp. With index.                         

       An indispensible tool for researching the KGB and its 
cousins. The work covers other bibliographies, Soviet accounts, 
Defector/First Hand accounts, Second Hand accounts, and 
government materials. This is another "must have" work. 


Rommerstein, Herbert and Stanislav Levchenko. The KGB Against 
       Main Enemy. Lexington, MA: Lexington Books, 1989. 369 pp. 
       With index.         
  
       Rommerstein was recently director of the Office to Counter 
Soviet Active Measures and Disinformation at the US Information 
Agency. This work, by two intelligence professionals, traces the 
history of Soviet intelligence operations against the Glavny               
Vrag, or Main Enemy, as the US is called in Soviet intelligence 
literature. 
       The work covers both old and new ground. The authors were 
able to successfully dig up some new information on past events 
through the Freedom of Information Act. The book also includes 
material on events in the late 1980's. 
 
 
Sharansky, Natan (Anatoly). Fear No Evil. New York: Random House, 
       1988. 437 pp. Contains index and photographs.     

       This is the memior from one of the most well-known of the 
Soviet refuseniks and dissidents. Sharansky's dislike of the KGB 
is matched only by the dislike of the KGB toward him. The book is 
a dramatic testament from an intense, determined man.
       The work is useful because of the unique view it gives of 
some of the KGB's internal roles. Sharansky also has a very 
articulate and effective writing style.


Shevchenko, Arkady. Breaking With Moscow. New York: Alfred A. 
       Knopf, 1985. 378 pp. With index.

       Shevchenko was serving as under Secretary-General of the 
United Nations during the 1970's when he agreed to spy for the 
United States. He later defected. 
       Because of Shevchenko's senior diplomatic position, he has 
information to provide in a number of areas. One area is Soviet 
intelligence operations. Shevchenko, and most other Soviet 
employees at the UN, had to preform duties for the KGB. Because 
of his senior position, Shevchenko had regular contact with the 
top Soviet security personnel in New York and Washington. 


Wise, David. The Spy Who Got Away. New York: Random House, 1988. 
       288 pp. With index and photographs.

       Wise is a journalist with a number of articles and books 
on intelligence matters to his credit. In this book Wise analyzes 
the Edward Lee Howard affair. Howard was an employee of the CIA 
being trained to run US agents in Moscow. The CIA discovered that 
Howard had lied about his personal life, specifically his drug 
use and past thefts. Howard was fired and then retaliated by 
passing information to the Soviets. He later made a rare US 
defection to the Soviet Union shortly before he was to be 
arrested by the FBI.
       Wise was actually able, with KGB permission, to interview 
Howard in Budapest, Hungary (around the same time British 
espionage journalist Phillip Knightly was allowed to interview 
Kim Philby in Moscow). Wise also reveals very interesting details 
of FBI and CIA counterintelligence operations. A good story.       


Wright, Peter. Spy Catcher. New York: Viking Penguin, Inc., 1987. 
       392 pp. With index and photographs. 

       The highly controversial memior from a former MI5 official 
that the British government tried desperately (and 
unsuccessfully) to prevent from being published. The book is a 
treasure trove of accounts of American, British, and Soviet 
intelligence operations. The intrigues and conspiricies run wild 
in this one.