MOBILIZE!
=========

Two years ago the FCC tried and (with your help and letters of protest)
failed to institute regulations that would impose additional costs on
modem users for data communications.

Now, they are at it again.  A new regulation that the FCC is quietly
working on will directly affect you as the user of a computer and modem.
The FCC proposes that users of modems should pay extra charges for use
of the public telephone network which carry their data.  In addition,
computer network services such as CompuServ, Tymnet, & Telenet would also
be charged as much as $6.00 per hour per user for use of the public
telephone network.  These charges would very likely be passed on to 
the subscribers.  The money is to be collected and given to the 
telephone company in an effort to raise funds lost to deregulation.

Jim Eason of KGO newstalk radio (San Francisco, Ca) commented on the
proposal during his afternoon radio program during which, he said 
he learned of the new regulation in an article in the New York Times. 
Jim took the time to gather the addresses which are given below. 

Here's what you should do (NOW!):

 1- Pass this information on.  Download MOBILIZE.ZIP which contains the
    text you are reading now.  Find other BBS's that are not carrying
    this information.  Upload the ASCII text into a public message on the
    BBS, and also upload the file itself so others can easily get a copy
    to pass along.

 2- Print out three copies of the letter which follows (or write your
    own) and send a signed copy to each of the following:

         Chairman of the FCC
         1919 M Street N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20554

         Chairman, Senate Communication Subcommittee
         SH-227 Hart Building
         Washington, D.C. 20510

         Chairman, House Telecommunication Subcommittee
         B-331 Rayburn Building
         Washington, D.C. 20515


Here's the suggested text of the letter to send:

   Dear Sir,

   Please allow me to express my displeasure with the FCC proposal
   which would authorize a surcharge for the use of modems on the
   telephone network. This regulation is nothing less than an attempt to
   restrict the free exchange of information among the growing number of
   computer users. Calls placed using modems require no special telephone
   company equipment, and users of modems pay the phone company for use
   of the network in the form of a monthly bill. In short, a modem call
   is the same as a voice call and therefore should not be subject to any
   additional regulation.

   Sincerely,
   [your name, address and signature]


It is important that you act now.  The bureaucrats already have it in
their heads that modem users should subsidize the phone company and are
now listening to public comment. Please stand up and make it clear that
we will not stand for any government restriction on the free exchange of
information. 
 
Thanks for your help.

Note: Most of the text for this Bulletin was copied from a message posted
      on the Fidonet Telecomm Echo network.
