Subject: OPAL FILE!-HERE IT IS! (CIAOBIL COS WORLD PLOT TO FUKUSALL)
Date: 16 Feb 91 00:56:13 GMT

***************************************************************
****************  THE OPAL FILE  ******************************
***************************************************************
HERE IS THE OPAL FILE: EX FBI AGENT DESCRIBES CIA/MAFIA/OIL COS/
/JFK KILLING/PRICE GOUGING/BIG BROTHER LINKS:
           (WE THE "PEEP"L ARE IN DEEP SHIT):
(CROSS POST TO ALT.ACTIVISM AND LOCAL NEWS ON YOUR MACHINE!!!!!):

Long, approx 60K and contains some very amazing information, such
as Swiss Account Numbers of high profile people on Mafia Payrolls.
You may be surprised at some of the names mentioned here.

It also contains references to CIA operations to place subliminal
TV broadcasts throughout Australia and NZ, and other countries.

Happy reading.

The Opal File

The Round Table Financial Takeover of Australia and New Zealand

- A 20 Year History In Brief

"Fear them not, therefore; for there is nothing covered that shall
not be revealed; and hidden, that shall shall not be known.  "What
I tell you in darkness, that espeak in light; and what ye hear in
the ear, that proclaim upon the housetops." Matthew

18th May, 1967: Texas oil billionaire Nelson Bunker Hunt, using a
sophisticated satellite technique to detect global deposits,
discovers a huge oil source south of New Zealand in the Great
South Basin.

10th June, 1967: Hunt and New Zealand Finance Minister reach an
agreement: Hunt will receive sole drilling rights and Muldoon will
receive a $US100,000 non-repayable loan from the Placid Oil Co
(Hunt's).

8th September, 1967:  Placid Oil granted drilling rights to the
Great South Basin.

10th May, 1968: Hawaiian meeting between Onassis and top
lieutenants, William Colby and Gerald Parsky, to discuss
establishment of a new front company in Australia - Australasian
and Pacific Holdings Limited - to be managed by Michael Hand.
Using Onassis-Rockefeller banks, Chase Manhattan and Shroders,
Travelodge Management Ltd sets up another front to link the
operations to the US.

Onassis crowned head of the Mafia; Colby (head of CIA covert
operations in S.E. Asia) ran the Onassis heroin operations in the
Golden Triangle (Laos, Burma, Thailand) with 200 Green Beret
Mercenaries - ie the Phoenix Programme.

Gerald Parsky deputy to ex-CIA/FBI Robert Maheu in the Howard
Hughes organisation, took orders from Onassis and was made
responsible for laundering skim money from the Onassis casino
operations in Las Vegas and the Bahamas.

Mid-July, 1968: Placid Oil Co and the Seven Sisters (major oil
companies) begin Great South Basin oil exploration - hunt finances
45.5% of exploration costs, Gulf Oil 14.5%, Shell (US) 10%, B.P.
Oil 10%, Standard Oil California 10%, Mobil 6.5% and Arco 6.5%.

12th October, 1968: Hunt and Seven Sisters announce confirmation
of new oil source comparable to the Alaskan North Slope - gas
reserves estimated at 150 times larger than the Kapuni Field.

Early 1969: Mafia consolidates its banking operations; David
Rockefeller becomes Chairman of Chase Manhattan; Wriston at
Citibank and Michele Sindona captures the Vatican Bank,
Partnership Pacific launched by Bank of America, Bank of Tokyo and
Bank of New South Wales.

24th February, 1969: Onassis calls Council meeting in Washington
to discuss strategy to monopolise the Great South Basin discovery.
Council members included Nelson Rockefeller and John McCloy, who
managed the Seven Sisters, and David Rockefeller managed the
Mafia's banking operations.

McCloy outlines the plan to capture all oil and mineral resources
in Australia and N.Z.

10th March, 1969: Parsky and Colby use Australasian and Pacific
Holdings to set up a 'front' company in Australia. Using old banks
-Mellon Bank and Pittsburgh National Bank, they buy control of
near-bankrupt Industrial Equity Ltd (I.E.L.) managed by New
Zealander Ron Brierly.

A'Asian and Pacific Holdings' 'consultant' Bob Seldon helps
Michael Hand set up the new organisation. Seldon took orders from
Mellon and Pittsburgh National Banks, while Hand was directly
responsible to Gerald Parsky and William Colby. Ron Brierly would
take orders from Hand.

24th July, 1969: New board established for I.E.L. includes Hand, Seldon, Ron
Brierly, plus two Brierly associates - Frank Nugan and Bob Jones.
Both are appointed consultants to A'asian and Pacific Holdings Ltd.

Jones will help Brierly launder funds into real estate
(Brierly/Jones Investments) while Seldon and Nugan will channel
funds into oil and mineral resources through I.E.L.

October 1969: Chase Manhattan begins new operation in Australia
with National Bank Australasia and A.C. Goods Associates - Chase-NBA.

J.C. Fletcher appointed chairman of Seven Sisters' company -
British Petroleum (N.Z.).

17th February 1970: Gerald Parsky sets up a new heroin-dollar
laundry in Australia - Australian International Finance Corp.
using the Irving Trust Co New York.

April 1970: Onassis, Rockefeller and the Seven Sisters begin
setting up the shadow World Government using the
Illuminati-controlled banks and the transnational corporations. In
Melbourne they set up the Australian International Finance
Corporation using:

* Irving Trust Co. N.Y. - linked to Shell Oil, Continental Oil,
Phillips Petroleum.

* Crocker Citizens National - linked to Atlantic Richfield (Arco),
Standard Oil of California which is Rockefeller-controlled.

* Bank of Montreal - Petro Canada, Penarctic Oils, Alberta Gas, Gulf Oil.

* Australia and New Zealand Bank (ANZ).

Meantime, Japanese members of One World Government move into New
Zealand, helped by Finance Minister R. Muldoon; Mitsubishi and
Mitsui make a profitable deal buying up rights to ironsands helped by Marcon
a
Corp. (US) and Todd (Shell/BP/Todd). Todd rewarded with sole New
Zealand franchise for Mitsubishi vehicles, Muldoon helps Mitsui
(Oji Paper Co) obtain a lucrative 320 million cubic foot Kiangaroa
Forestry contract with Carter Holt.

November, 1970: Fletchers extend the Rockefeller Travelodge
operation by buying control of New Zealand's largest travel
company - Atlantic and Pacific Travel.

Manufacturers' and Retailers' Acceptance Company (in 1970 changed
to Marac): This firm specialises in leasing and factoring (buying
debts at a discount). It also finances imports and exports. The
major shareholders are the Fletcher Group (38.0%), the Commercial
Bank of Australia Ltd (24.7%), NIMU Insurance (7.7%), Phillips
Electrical (3.8%), National Mutual Life Association (2.4%), New
Zealand United Corporation (4.0%). The CBA is a partner in the
supranational Euro-Pacific Corporation, the other partners being
the Midland Bank (UK), the United California Bank (USA), Fuji
(Japan) and Societe Generale de Banque (France).

Early 1971: Onassis and Rockefeller begin global operation to buy
influence for the One World Government concept. They use Lockheed,
Northrop and Litton Industries 'agent' Adnan Khashoggi, to
organise operations in the Middle East, Iran and Indonesia. I.C.I.
set up $2.5 million slush fund to Australia and N.Z.

Finance Minister Muldoon changes law to allow Mafia-controlled
banks to begin operations in New Zealand. Links also made by
N.Z.I. in preparation for Paxus control with Hong Kong and
Shanghai; Wells Fargo with Broadbank; Chase Manhattan with General
Finance; Bank of America and Barclays with Fletchers and Renouf in
New Zealand United Corp. All members of the Business Round Table
Organisation.

Late 1971: Gulf Oil and their man Brierly begin organising chains
of Shell companies and dummy corporations to conceal their
takeover operations of oil, gas and mineral resources and related
industries such as vehicle franchises, vehicle spare parts and
finance services - all part of the Seven Sisters' controlled car
culture.

To extend links to the US banking operations they buy control of
I.S.A.S.  (NSW) and I.S.A.S. (Qld), which hold sole franchise for
construction and mining equipment produced by International
Harvester Credit Co, which is part of Chase Manhattan Bank and
associated with First National Bank Chicago (Chairman Sullivan
also Executive Vice-President of Chase Manhattan), Continental
Illinois (linked with CIA and Mafia Michele Sindona of Vatican
Bank) and Rockefeller's Standard Oil of Indiana (AMOCO).

I.S.A.S. (Qld) also has strategic holdings in North Flinders
Mines, Flinders Petroleum, Apollo International Minerals.

February 1972: Onassis and Rockefeller help associate Adnan
Khashoggi buy the Security Pacific National Bank in California and
take control of the United California Bank through CIA-linked
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation.  Both banks used by Onassis and
Khashoggi to funnel bribes and payoffs via the CIA's Deak Bank to
captive Japanese and other crooked politicians.  Security Pacific
also used to 'launder' over $2 million for Nixon's re-election
campaign.  Khashoggi also buys 21% of Southern Pacific Properties,
which is the major stockholder in Travelodge (Aust), thereby
establishing direct links to New Zealand, and U.E.B. and Fletchers
through its equity links with Travelodge (N.Z.).

April 1972: Mafia banking operations expanded through New Hebrides
with establishment of Australian International Ltd to finance
Pacific development by the oil companies (Seven Sisters). Banks
involved include Irving Trust NY, Bank of Montreal, Crocker
International, Australia & N.Z.  Bank and the Mitsubishi Bank,
whose president, Nakamaru, is appointed Chairman.

26th May, 1972: Gerald Parsky installs Michele Sindona as 'owner'
of Franklin National Bank, helped by the Gambino Mafia family and
David Kennedy - Chairman of Continental Illinois Bank and Nixon's
Secretary of the Treasury.

Pacific Basin Economic Council Conference in Wellington, NZ.
Vice-President Shigeo Nagano also chairman of Nippon Steel and
member of Onassis and other World Government organisations.
Chairman of NZ sub-committee, J.  Mowbray is also GenehAo National B

Meanwhile, Michele Sindona, acting as the go-between for the Mafia
and the CIA, was the conduit between US and European banks.
Michele Sindona's Vatican Bank and associate Calvi's Abrosiano
Bank was used to finance CIA neo-fascist Italian/Latin American
operations through Licio Gelli's P2 Lodge, which helped to
organise the 'death squads' of Argentina, Uruguay and Chile. This
aided the P2 -@+%rs sukh!as Klaus Barbie ('The Butcher of Lyonsf,(" Rega 
organiser of the A.A.A. in
Argentina.

Aoh August, 1972: Gulf Oil associate Bob Seldon helps establish
new banking operation, first NZ international banks include Bank
of New Zealand, D.F.C. (Aust), N.Z.I., Morgan Guaranty Trust,
Morgan Grenfel and S.F.  Warburg.

Fletchers begins expansion overseas with deals signed in
Indonesia, Fiji and New Guinea.

December 1972:   Kirk elected Prime Minister of New Zealand.

February, 1973: Gerald Parsky, William Colby, Michael Hand, Frank
Nugan and Bob Seldon move to further consolidate the Mafia banking
operations.  In NZ they acquire 20% Fletcher subsidiary Marac,
using the Security Pacific National Bank helped by Marac Corporate
secretary Alan Hawkins.

Frank Nugan and Michael Hand use Fletcher and Renouf and their NZ
United Corporation to link with I.E.L. and Brierly Investments
through cross-shareholding agreement.

In Australia, the Nugan Hand Bank begins operations with 30% of
the stock held by A'asian and Pacific Holdings (100% Chase
Manhattan Bank), 25% by CIA's Air America (known as 'Air Opium'),
25% by South Pacific Properties and 20% held by Seldon, Nugan and
Hand.

The Irving Trust Bank's New York Branch establishes US links
between the CIA and Nugan Hand, a worldwide network of 22 banks
set up to:

a) 'launder' money from Onassis heroin operations in the Golden
Triangle and Iran;
b) as a CIA funnel to pro-US political parties in Europe and Latin
America, including Colby's P2;
c) a spying conduit for information from Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam
and Thailand;
d) finance arms smuggled to Libya, Indonesia, South America,
Middle East and Rhodesia using the CIA's Edward Wilson.

Colby and Kissinger use key CIA and Naval Intelligence officers to
oversee the operation, including Walter McDonald (former Deputy
Director CIA), Dale Holmgren (Flight Service Manager CIA Civil Air
Transport), Robert Jansen (former CIA Station Chief, Bangkok) etc.

Heroin flown into Australia by CIA's Air America and trans-shipped
to Onassis lieutenant in Florida, Santos Trafficante Jr, assisted
by Australian Federal Bureau of Narcotics officials and
co-ordinated by CIA's Ray Cline.

14th June, 1973: Inauguration of the Onassis shadow World
Government - the Trilateral Commission. Includes over 200 members from the U
S,
Europe and Japan - bankers, government officials, transnational
corporations' top executives, trade unionists, etc. Of the world's
largest corporations, 24 directly represented and dozens more
through interlocking directorships.

* Trilateralist strategy: monopolisation of the world's resources,
production facilities, labour technology, markets, transport and
finance. These aims backed up by the US military and industrial
complexes that are already controlled and backed up by the CIA.

18th August, 1973: Ray Cline and Michael Hand meet in Adelaide to
discuss CIA plan to establish spying operations in NZ.

September 1973: Seagrams, with strong links to Chase Manhattan
Bank of Montreal and Toronto Dominion Bank, buys 2,800 acres of
prime land in Marlborough helped by Peter Maslen.

17th February, 1974: Mafia sets up New Hebrides Bank - Commercial
Pacific Trust Co (COMPAC). Banks include CBA, Europacific Finance
Corporation, Trustee Executors and Agency Co, Fuji Bank, Toronto
Dominion Bank, European Asian Bank and United California Bank,
COMPAC to be used as a cover for heroin dollar laundering
operations.

26th February, 1974: Michael Hand meets Bob Jones in Wellington to
implement plans for the CIA's new spying operation - countries
targeted include France, Chile, West Germany and Israel.

Using the Brierly/Jones Investment funnel, Jones buys building in
Willeston Street which will be rented to France and Chile, another
at Plimmer Steps to house West Germany and Israel.

CIA will set up eavesdropping communications centre inside the
Willeston Street building and another at 163 The Terrace which
will link with equipment installed in the Plimmer Steps building.
Four CIA technicians will run the whole operation.

April 1974: Finance Minister Rowling appoints Ron Trotter to the
Overseas Investment Commission, whose chairman, G. Lau, is also a
member of the Todd Foundation (Shell/BP/Todd) investment board.

Whitlam and Kirk

Mid-1974: Gough Whitlam and Norman Kirk begin a series of moves
absolutely against the Mafia Trilateralists. Whitlam refuses to
waive restrictions on overseas borrowings to finance Alwest
Aluminium Consortium of Rupert Murdoch, BHP and R.J. Reynolds.
Whitlam had also ended Vietnam War support, blocked uranium mining
and wanted more control over US secret spy bases - e.g. Pine Gap.

Kirk had introduced a new, tough Anti-Monopoly Bill and had tried
to redistribute income from big companies to the labour force
through price regulation and a wages policy.

Kirk had also rejected plans to build a second aluminium smelter
near Dunedin and was preparing the Petroleum Amendment Bill to
give more control over New Zealand oil resources.

Kirk had found out that Hunt Petroleum, drilling in the Great
South Basin, had discovered a huge resource of oil comparable in
size to the North Sea or Alaskan North Slope. Gas reserves alone
now estimated at 30 times bigger than Kapuni and oil reserves of
at least 20 billion barrels - enough for New Zealand to be
self-sufficient for years. Oil companies completely hushed up
these facts. To have announced a vast new oil source would
probably mean a decline in world oil prices, which would not have
allowed OPEC and Onassis plans for the Arabs to eventuate. N.Z.
could be exploited at a later date, particularly since the North
Sea operations were about to come on stream - Kirk was the last to
hold out.

September, 1974: According to CIA sources, Kirk was killed by the
Trilateralists using Sodium Morphate. Rowling's first act as NZ
Prime Minister was to withdraw Kirk's Anti-Monopoly Bill and the
Petroleum Amendment Bill.

Later, Rowling was to be rewarded with ambassadorship to
Washington.  Incidentally, the Shah of Iran was murdered the same
way as Kirk on his arrival in the US.

6th October, 1974: Ray cline implements William Colby plan to oust
Australian Prime Minister Whitlam. Nugan Hand Bank finances
payoffs to Malcolm Fraser and other pro-US politicians. A joint
bugging operation commences between CIA and ASIA.

Rupert Murdoch, playing his part, uses his newspapers and
television network to spread lies and misinformation. Whitlam, as
well as refusing to waive restrictions on overseas borrowing to
finance the aluminium consortium, had plans to ensure that all
corporations were at least 50% Australian-owned. This interfered
with the Seven Sisters' plans to build three oil refineries at
Cape Northumberland in South Australia to exploit the Great South
Basin discovery.

December, 1974: Australian Governor-General John Kerr joins Ray
Cline's payroll and received his first pay-off of $US200,000
credited to his account number 767748 at the Singapore branch of
the Nugan Hand Bank.

11th November, 1975: Governor-General Kerr sacks the Whitlam
Government.

August 1975: Rowling re-introduces unrecognisable Commerce Bill,
designed to aid monopolisation of the NZ economy and repeals the
News Media Ownership Act, allowing more foreign ownership of NZ
media. The new legislation does not define monopoly, competition
or stipulate permissable maximum market share, or even ascertain
what the public interest is - resulting in a sell-out to big business.

December, 1975: Election battle between Rowling and Muldoon. Oil
companies pour thousands of dollars into Muldoon's campaign via
National Bank (NZ), whose general manager Mowbray is also a member
of Todd Foundations; Investment Board Director Tudhope also Managing
Director Shell Oil and Chairman Shell/BP/Todd. Muldoon wins.

February, 1976: Muldoon implements pre-election secret agreement
with the NZ Seven Sisters' oil representatives of Shell/BP/Todd
for helping finance the National Party campaign.

Muldoon removes the $3 per barrel oil levy for the New Zealand
Refining Company, which increases the oil companies' profits by
100% at the taxpayers' expense and with all future oil prospecting licenses,
the Government has the option to take 51% of any discovery without
meeting exploration costs. This is designed to discourage further
exploration, thereby keeping the lid on the Great South Basin
discovery.

Meanwhile, in Australia, new P.M. Malcolm Fraser reopens uranium
mining and opens the way for takeover of mineral resources with
big tax breaks for oil exploration, coal and mining.

Muldoon returns a favour to the oil companies by arranging $US200
million loan for Maui Gas Development for Shell/BP/Todd.

September, 1976: With captive politicians in place in both
Australia and New Zealand, the Internationalists can now proceed
with their strategy of takeover of the economy and exploitation of
natural resources. "In New Zealand, the elimination of unnecessary
competition is fundamental to a sound economy," Brierly says.

Parksy and Colby use Brierly/Jones Investments as a vehicle to buy
into A.B. Consolidated Holdings in New Zealand.

Associate of R. Jones, Pat Goodman, is appointed 'consultant' of
A'asian and Pacific Holdings.

November, 1976: The Internationalists (Mafia) set up a NZ money
'funnel' using Brierley's City Realties. National Insurance Co
acquires 33% of the stock. Largest stockholders in National
Insurance are the US Firemen's Fund
- Chairman and President Myron Du Bain also Vice Chairman of
American Express (Amex). Chairman of I.E.L. linked International
Harvester, Archie McCardell, also Amex Director. Amex linked with
Chase Manhattan and seven Sisters' Texaco and Mobil. Du Bain also
Director of CIA-linked United California Bank, which is a partner
in Commercial Pacific Trust.

To complete the money funnel, National Insurance becomes a
stockholder in Chase Manhattan's Chase-NBA.
Brierley's declared assets reach $100 million, with shareholder's
capital of only $2.5 million - all cash acquisitions.

3rd February, 1977: Parksy and Colby close down the Brierley/Jones
Investment funnel and open up seperate channels for Brierley and
Jones.  Jones will be supplied with 'laundered' funds via Sydney
branch of the Nugan Hand Bank, while for Ron Brierley, Gerald
Parsky uses Myron Du Bain, Dierctor of United California Bank and
also chairman and president of the US Firemen's Fund, which are
the largest stockholders in National Insurance (NZ). Funds to be
'laundered' via Chase Manhattan Bank through National Insurance to
City Realty and via United California Bank through
COMPAC (New Hebrides) to National Insurance and City Realties.

To expand the Bierley/I.E.L. 'front', Parsky establishes
Industrial Equity Pacific (Hong Kong).

September 1977: Brierley's new holding company begins operations -
A.B.  Consolidated. H.W. Revell appointed Deputy Chairman and B.
Hancox General Manager, while newly-appointed directors include S.
Cushing, B.  Judge, O. Gunn and P. Goodman, linked with Renouf,
Fletcher and Papps through I.E.L./N.Z.U.C.

* Strategy: To target and divide key sectors of the economy for
takeover, exploitation and monopolisation. Operations to extend to
use Hong Kong facility, I.E.P. Fletchers to extend the
Khashoggi/Rockefeller Travelodge operation by taking holdings in
Vacation Hotels and Intercontinental Properties (Renouf
Chairman).

October, 1977: Muldoon and JOhn Todd - Shell/BP/Todd - sign an
agreement.  NZ Govt would take 24.5% holding in the Great South
Basin for $1.65 Billion.  Hunt would reduce his holding from 45.5%
to 27.5% and Arco would sell its 6.5%.

* Reason: Hunt did not possess the technology to pump oil from
deep water; Gulf possessed the technology but did not tell Hunt.
Arco was not told anything and were swindled out of its 6.5% concession.

November, 1977:  Muldoon introduces the S.I.S Amendment Bill,
designed to keep the economy free of obstruction and to help
uncover obstructive elements.  Telephone taps, mail tampering and
other surveillance methods approved after CIA input on contents of
legislation.

Late 1977:  Muldoon travels to the US to meet top Rockefeller
officials, including Trilateralists' Deputy Secretary of State,
Warren Christopher, and Richard Bolbrooke, who were in charge of
the new "South Pacific Desk" at the State Department established
by Rockefeller to target exploitatin of both New Zealand and
Australia.  In Los Angeles, Muldoon meets top Rockefeller
officials, Robert Anderson (Rockwell Chairman, also Director of
Kashoggi's Security Pacific National Bank) and P. Larkin (Rockwell
Director, also Chairman, Executive Committee Security Pacific
National Bank and Director of Marac).

April, 1978:  Muldoon sets up Petrocorp.  New Zealand taxpayers
pay for the exploration costs but the oil companies control all
distribution outlets.  Muldoon blocks development of Maui B as
restructured supplies mean higher prices and bigger profits for
Shell/BP/Todd.  South Island gas market not developed as Great
South Basin fields closer than Kapuni.  Plans develop for
re-opening of National Parks for mineral exploitation.

22nd July, 1978: Director of Australian Federal Bureau of
Narcotics suspends his invetigation into the Nugan Hand Bank after
pressure from the CIA and Australian politicians controlled by
Mafia, particularly Malcolm Fraser.

Brierly's declared assets reach $200 million, with shareholders'
funds only $17 million.

May, 1979: Trilateral Commission secretary Zbignieu Brzezinski
appoints Muldoon chairman of Board of Governors of IMF/World Bank
on orders of
David Rockefeller.  Muldoon would head three-man administration
committee which included Canadian Finance Minister Mitchell Sharp,
key figure in the Mafia Council and the Trilateral Commission.
Australian Treasurer McMahon also involved.

8th June, 1979: Michael Hand, Frank Nugan, Brierley and James
Fetcher meet in Hand's Sydney penthouse to discuss the
establishment of the New Zealand Mafia organisation.

Mid- 1979: Gulf Oil using its man Brierley, begins operations
designed to capture key sectors of the economy.  A.B Consolidated
restructured into the Goodman Group and Goodman to run operations
but with the majority of the stock held by IEL and Brierley using
Shell companies plus dummy corporations.

* Strategy:  To take over food and produce resources, Brierley and
Fletcher restructured a small private company, H.W. Smith, using
Cyril Smith as Chairman but with key executives Judge, Collins and
McKenzie. Bob Jones helps.

Private company used, as no Commerce Commission control, accounts
not published, no public disclosure of transactions.  Bunting is
established as a shell company and the South Island is targeted
for asset-stripping and takeover, as well as key sectors of the
automobile industry.

Unlimited funds channelled through City Realties, NZUC and Marac.
UEB extends Travelodge operations by buying control of
Transholdings, which has strategic holdings in Vacation Hotels and
Tourist Corp. Fiji Holdings.

17th August, 1979:  New Zealand Mafia inaugral meeting in Sydney
including Hand, Brierley, Fletcher, Goodman, R.Trotter, Alan
Hawkins and L.Papps.

Key sectors of the economy would be taken over- food, using
Goodman; forestry and farming, using Fletcher and Trotter;
property, using Brierley and Jones.  Brierley, Hand and Papps
would be responsible for banking, insurance and finance, while
Hand and Hawkins would be responsible for setting up new "laundry"
channels into New Zealand.

The economy would be taken over using cheap loans of less than 5%,
while consumers would pay 28%.

October, 1979:  BP Oil begis $100 million joint venture deal with
Fletcher and Trotter at Tasman.

Muldoon makes secret deal with oil companies which effectively
robs New Zealand taxpayers by giving Shell/BP/Todd the Maui Gas
deal.  Normally the granting of drilling rights on public land is
done using a worldwide system which incorporates an auction tender
system.  Muldoon bypassed this.   Also, Shell/BP/Todd pays no tax
on Kapuni profits, while putting funds into Maui development.

19th November, 1979:  Secret meeting in Auckland between Muldoon,
Fletcher and Trotter to transfer 43% Tasman Pulp and Paper held by
New Zealand Government to Challenge Corporation (Chairman Trotter)
and Fletchers.  Tasman has lucrative 75-year contract for cheap
timber signed in 1955.

Muldoon paid off with a $1 million 'non-repayable' loan - $500,000
to be paid into account number 8746665 at New Hebrides branch of
the Australian International Bank.

November, 1979:  Muldoon drops restrictions on foreign investment.
AMAX (Stnadard Oil of California subsidiary) captures the Martha
Hill goldmine.

Muldoon unveils the Government's plans (instructed by Rockefeller)
to form New Zealand into an offshore production base for the
multi-national corporations as benefits include government export
incentives, stable government, cheap labour, and so on.

27th November, 1979:  Gerald Parsky's lieutenant, David Kennedy,
meets Muldoon to deliver $US100,000 cash to Muldoon for
implementing the Internationalists' Mafia Think Big plans.

These plans began with big contracts and guaranteed profits for
the Seven Sisters, Bechtel, Mitsubishi, Mitsui, Nippon Steel,
Internationalists' Mafia banks.

With the experimental petroleum plant, the oil price has to be
$50/barrel to be profitable, yet Mobil's profits are guaranteed.

New Zealand Steel is to be expanded 500%, even though there was a
global steel glut of 50%.

Fletchers own 10% of New Zealand Steel and are majority
stockholders in Pacific Steel and control monopoly over wire rod,
reinforcing steel.  Aslo, New Zealand taxpayers subsidise
Fletchers' profits.

Muldoon introduces the National Development Bill with 'fast-track'
legislation, to keep the economy 'free of obstruction' for
long-term monopolisation.

C.E.R. plan introduced, designed to integrate the economies of
Australia and New Zealand with the Trilateral Commission for the
purpose of exploiting the South Pacific countries and as a
'back-door' entrance into China - the world's largest untapped
consumer market.  New Zealand is also the closest country to
Antarctica, which has a vast mineral resource for future
exploitation.

"Think Big" projects begin, even though Muldoon aware of studies
that show New Zealand could conserve up to 40% of energy
consumption using existing technology, which would mean funds
could be invested elsewhere to lower consumer prices, lower
inflation rates, less demand for imported oil and increased
imployment by creating new industry to manufacture and install
energy-saving technology.  None of these options seriously
considered as all would lessen profits for members of the
Rockefeller organisations.

December 1979:  Muldoon unveils 'stage two' of a four-stage plan
to exploit the Great South Basin discovery.  Plan prepared by
Trilateralist 'Think Tank' - the Brookings Institute.

'Stage Two' includes methanol plant and synthetic petrol plant,
which would initially use gas from the Maui field and later would
link with underwater gas pipe from Campbell Island.

With the New Zealand Steel 500% expansion, 'stage three' of the
project and Think Big contracts to go to Bechtel, Fluor Corp.,
Mitsubishi, Mitsui, Nippon Steel, etc.  All investments would be
financed by the New Zealand taxpayer.

17th January, 1980:  $500,000 deposited in Muldoon's account
number 8746665 at the Australian International Bank, being the
final payment for the Tasman deal.

Early 1980:  Kashoggi Travelodge operations extended with
affiliation agreement between Dominion Breweries and Western
International Hotels (Seattle First National Bank).

May, 1980:  Mafia's Nugan Hand banking operation crashes after
Frank Nugan killed.  Death ruled as suicide even though no
fingerprints found on the rifle.  Maloney, Houghton, Yates and
Hand shred important documents, but miss some.  CIA helps Hand and
Bank President Donald Beasley escape to the U.S.  The CIA and
Australian Security Intelligence Organisation cover everything up.
Beazley appointed President of Miami City National Bank, run by
Alberto Dugue for 'laundering' profits from the CIA Colombian
cocaine operation.

There is a probability that Michael Hand killed Frank Nugan
because of his involvement with Hand's fiancee.

25th May, 1980:  Colby arrived in Australia to discuss replacement
of the Nugan Hand Bank with Hand, Brierley, and Seldon.  Immediate
funding available from Sydney branch of the Deak Bank, a separate
CIA operation, and IEL would be used to buy NZI Corp., to prepare
for future laundering operations.

Maloney, Houghton, Yates, and Hand would shred all documents
leading back to the New Zealand Great South Basin connection, and
the CIA would help Hand and Bank President Donald Beazley escape
to the USA.  The CIA and ASIO would also cover everything up.

Hand and Beazley turn up in Miami - Beazley appointed President
and Hand 'consultant' to the Miami City National Bank, but also
Hand turned up in El Salvador to help organise bankrolling of the
Contras with other ex- members of Nugan-Hand.

23rd June, 1980:  New Zealand Mafia, including Brierley, Fletcher,
Trotter, Jones, Hawkins, Goodman, and Papps meet in Wellington to
discuss merger of Fletcher Challenge and Tasman.

In order to replace Nugan Hand Bank's 22 world-wide branches,
quick moves are made to buy control of NZI by New Zealand Mafia
using Brierley, thereby capturing an established, world-wide
organisation through the Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank, which is
also linked to the CIA through its subsidiary, World Finance
Corporation.

Late 1980:  Fletchers, with strong Rockefeller links, obtains
lucrative contracts on US Bases in the Pacific and joint ventures
in Saudi Arabia and Iraq.

Control extended over New Zealand natural resources - Fletcher
Challenge and Tasman Pulp and Paper merged.  NZFP takes control of
M.S.D. Spiers and Moore Le Messurier (Aust).  Brierley begins
joint venture with NZFP through Williamson and Jeffrey.  I.E.L,
through Goodman, buys 20% of Watties and begins cross-shareholding
agreement.  Goodman continues buying up control of NZ bakeries and
flour- mills.

February, 1981:  TNL., Brierley, AMOIL and MIM Holdings begin
joint gold mining operation.  MIM major shareholder is ASARCO
(US), whose Chairman, Barber, is also Director of Chase Manhattan
Bank.

New Zealand Insurance and South British merger.
Parliamentarians For World Order - Richard Prebble elected on of
twelve councillors.

Fletcher and Papps (Chairman UEB) sell their hotel operations to
Singaporian interest clossely associated with the Pritzker family
- owners of the Hyatt Hotel chain.  Bueton Kanter, Pritzker family
lawyer and Director of Hyatt Hotels, who helped arrange the deal,
was an old family partner of Paul Helliwell (CIA paymaster for the
Bay of Pigs' fiasco) and had helped the Pritzker family set up tax
shelters using the CIA's Mercantile Bank and Trust and the Castle
Bank, which ahd been set up by Helliwell for 'laundering' profits
from the Onassis heroin operations as well as 'skim money' from
the Hughes casino operations in Las Vegas.

Others who used these banks include Richard Nixon, Bebe Rozo,
Robert Vesco, Teamsters Union, etc.

12th March, 1981:  Brierley calls secret meeting in Auckland,
which includes Jones, Fletcher, Hawkins, Papps and Burton Kanter,
to discuss transfer of the Fletcher Challenge and UEB hotel
operations to the Singapore front company controlled by the
Pritzker family.

20th July, 1981:  Parsky, Colby, Brierley and Seldon meet in
Sydney with two new members, Kerry Packer and Alan Bond.

Chase Manhattan and Security Pacific National Bank will acquire
60% of Packer's company, with the stock being held in Australia,
and 35% Bond's company, with the stock being held in Hong Kong.

August 1981:  Gulf Oil, using Brierley, strengthens its hold over
New Zealand natural resources.  Cue Energy launched, starring
Lawrey and
Gunn.  NZOG launched with strategic holdings by Jones, Renouf and
Brierley with licences in PPD 38206 and 38204 - both next to
Hunt's Great South Basin discovery, NZOG also controls 80 million
tonnes of coal through the Pike River Coal Company.

Brierley-controlled Wellington Gas, Christchurch Gas, Auckland and
Hawkes Bay Gas and Dual Fuel Systems (A'Asia) which controls the
vehicle gas conversion market.

Liquigas Limited set up to distribute LPG, controlled by
Shell/BP/Todd and Fletcher Challenge.

15th February, 1982:  Brierley calls New Zealand meeting - Jones,
Fletcher, Trotter, Hawkins, Goodman and Papps.  New members
include Bruce Judge, J. Fernyhough, and Frank Renouf.

With Muldoon about to deregulate the liquor industry, Brierley and
Fernyhough plan to buy up the New Zealand liquor industry, along
with its outlets, Lion Breweries and Rothmans to help.
Brierley will do the same in Australia.  J.R. Fletcher becomes
Managing Director of Brierley's Dominion Breweries to oversee
operations.  Rothmans and Brierley (through Goodman) have equal
holdings in Saudicapital Corp.  Lion Directors Myers and
Fernyhough also stockholders in NZOG.

Fletcher and Brierley begin their takeover of the freezing works
industry.  FCL buys into South Island works while Brierley begins
takeover of Waitaki NZR  through Watties with the help of Athol
Hutton.

With Think Big projects beginning, Fletcher and Trotter plan to
take strategic holdings in NZ  Cement, Wilkins Davies, Steel &
Tube etc., and Brierley would use Renouf to take 3% stake of the
Martha Hill gold-mine.

Also targetted are clothing, footwear, carpet manufacture and more
of the auto industry for takeover and monopolisation.

June, 1982:  Meantime, in Australia, an new money funnel begins.
H.W Smith buys to obscure South Pine Quarries, which is renamed
Ariadne (Aust).  South Pine Quarries owns 50% of Coal-Liquid Inc.,
with the other half owned by US Defence contractors McDonnell
Douglas.  Coal-Liquid renamed Impala Securities.

The common link between Gulf Oil and McDonnell Douglas is the
CIA's Mercantile Bank and Trust, which both companies use for
world-wide bribery and payoff operations.  McDonnell Douglas
officials McKeough and G.T.Hawkins later appointed directors of
Impala Securities.

US links strengthened through Industrial Equity Pacific, which
acquires part of Higbee Company in Cleveland, which in turn is
closely linked to the National City Bank of Cleveland.  This bank
is closely associated with Gulf Oil's bank, Pittsburgh National
and Mellon Bank.

Bruce Judge installed as Ariadne manager.

July, 1982:  Media takeover begins.  Brierley takes 24% NZ News
Ltd and begins buying up private radio.  Rupert Murdoch helps.

27th July, 1982.  Brierley, Jones and Goodman meet in Auckland
with two Japanese members of the Trilateral Commission to discuss
integration of the New Zealand economy into the Pacific Rim
economy.  Trilateralists include:  Takeshi Watanabe (Japanese
Chairman of Trilateral Commission) and Daigo Miyado (Chairman
Sanwa Bank).

The Japan/New Zealand Business Council would be established to co-
ordinate policy with Goodman appointed as Chairman.

17th August, 1982:  Inauguration of restructured US Mafia Council
- rulers include David Rockefeller, responsible for Banking; John
McCloy; Redman Rockefeller and J.D. Rockefeller, who would run the
Seven Sisters.

Second-tier Council includes:

   * Gerald Parsky - responsible for heroin and cocaine operations
   * William Simon - responsible for running the Presidency,
      Cabinet, etc
   * Katherine Graham - link to arms manufacturers
   * Zbigniew Brzezinski - link to National Security Council and
   CIA
   * George S. Franklin - link to FBI

Third-tier Council includes:

   * Zbigniew Brzezinski - Secretary
   * Gerald Parsky - Heroin Cocaine operations
   * William Colby - crack operations, assassinations
   * John N. Perkins - banking, laundering
   * Leonard Woodcock - labour, unions
   * Mitchell Sharp - banking
   * William Simon - presidency, Cabinet
   * Ernest C. Arbuckly - arms manufacturers
   * George W. Bull - Bildrberg and Council of Foreign Relations
   * Katherine Graham - arms manufacturers
   * Alden W. Clausen - World Bank, IMF
   * Willam T. Coleman - CIA
   * Archibald K. Davis - media, radio, television, and newspapers
   * George S. Franklin - FBI, and Trilateral Commission
   co-ordinator
   * J.D. Rockefeller - to "spy" on the 15 man council.

September, 1982:  Goodman now helps establish the Japan/New
Zealand Council with the Bank of Tokyo and the Industrial Bank of
Japan.  Tokai Pulp Co. buys shareholding in NZFP, which also
begins joint venture with Shell Oil.

Fletcher Challenge strengthens links with the Rockefeller
organisation by acquiring the Canadian operations of Crown
Zellerbach, whose chairman is also director of Gulf Oil.  Crown
Zellerbach Corp. has direct connections to Rockefeller through
directors Mumford, Hendrickson and Granville, to United California
Bank through Roth and to the Bank of America through Chairman C.R.
Dahl.

Meanwhile, Robert Jones Investments floated to extend operations
of City Realties, Ilmond Properties, Chase Corp., etc.

The Commerce Building in Auckland sold to Robert Jones Investments
by Robert Jones Holdings for $950,000 when recently it was offered
on the market for $200,000.  A quick $750,000 for Jones.  Robert
Jones Investments was set up by Brierley, Jones and Hawkins.

8th December, 1982:  Mitchell Sharp heads top-level Mafia meeting
in San Francisco.  Others include Parsky, Perkins, Woodcock and
C.R. Dahl - Chairman of Crown Zellermach.

Also present are - Brierley, Trotter, Fletcher and Seldon.
Meeting to discuss Great South Basin exploitation strategy sith
first priority being monopolisation of the economy; second
priority to establish oil refineries and related industries; third
to integrate New Zealand economy into Trilateral economy and,
fourth, to concentrate power back to the U.S through the Seven
Sisters, Chase Manhattan and Security Pacific National Bank.

Fletcher Challenge will link New Zealand economy directly to the
U.S by merging with Canadian subsidiary of Crown Zellerbach with
funds provided by Security Pacific National Bank and United
Californian Bank.

Brierley, Fletcher, Trotter and Seldon will be New Zealand Ruling
Council, headed by Brierley, who would take orders from Gerald
Parsky.

Mid-1983:  Brierley's Ariadne (Aust) takes control of Repco (NZ)
through Repco (Aust), therby taking control of key auto-related
industry, helped by Borg Warner and Honeywell - which are closely
associated with IEL through International Harvester, Continental
Illinois Bank and the First National Bank of Chicago.  Toyota and
Nissan also help so that Brierley now largest distributor of auto
and industrial parts, largest manufacturer of pistons, filters and
engine bearings, as well as biggest supplier of forklifts,
tractors and agricultural equipment.

Meantime, control is extended over the Great South Basin oil
source with
Hunt, after big losses resulting from trying to corner the world's
silver market, being forced to sell out some of his concession to
Gulf Oil, which uses Brierley to set up a new company - Southern
Petroleum - which takes a 14.5% interest.  Hunt retains overall
control with 45.5%, Petro-Corp has 40% and Chairman F. Orr, also a
Director of Brierley - controlled Watties.

Brierley, through Goodman, takes control of TNL Group and its
subsidiaries NZ Motor Bodies and L & M Mining, which has 15%
interest in the Chatham Rise, right next to the Hunt concession.

Southern Petroleum set up by Brierley in New Zealand was
spearheaded by the Seven Sisters' companies with Gerald Parsky and
William Colby initiators.  Southern Petroleum to include 21% of
the Great South Basin held by gulf and Mobil Oil.  90% of this
stock held in Australia through IEL (ie Brierley's).

11-12th May, 1983:  New Zealand Mafia meet in Cook Islands.
Includes Brierley, Trotter, Fletcher, Jones, Hawkins, Goodman,
Pappas, Judge, Renouf, and Fernyhough.  New members include A.
Gibbs, McConnell, H.Fletcher and O.Gunn.  Japanese Trilateralists
Takeshi Wataneve and Daigo Miyado discuss 'integration' of New
Zealand into the Pacific Rim economies.

A new political party would be established using Jones and
financed by the New Zealand Mafia Council.

 * Reason:  Parsky and Colby wanted Muldoon out because he had
 'welched'
on a deal to set up two US military deep-water submarine bases
planned for Dusky Sound and Guards Bay in the South Island.
Parsky, Brierley and Ray Cline hold a separate meeting to discuss
the purchase of New Zealand politicians, including Lange, Douglas
and Bolger.

Cline was 'consultant' to the CIA's Deak Bank, took orders from
Colby, and was responsible for the 10 Australian politicians on
the CIA's payroll, including Bjelke Petersen, I. Sinclair,
Keating, McMullen, M.Fraser, D.  Anthony, K. Newman, J Carrick, B.
Cowan and R. Connor.

Cline outlines CIA plan to begin subliminal television
advertising.

22nd June, 1983:  New Zealand politician J. Bolger meets Ray Cline
in Sydney and agrees to join the organisation for a monthly fee of
$US20,000 to be paid into account number GA1282117 at Geneva
branch of Credit Swisse.

20th July, 1983:  New Zealand politician R. Douglas meets Ray
Cline in Wellington and agrees to join the organisation for a
monthly fee of $US10,000 to be paid into account number 3791686 at
the Sydney Branch of the Deak Bank.

July 1983:  Parsky launches a new front company, Chase
Corporation, with 25% of the stock being held through Security
Pacific National Bank in Australia and 25% held in Hong Kong by
Chase Manhattan.  Brierley and Hawkins set up a 'back-door'
listing to cover up true-ownership.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

August, 1983:  Muldoon imposes withholding tax on all ofshore
borrowing.

Chase Manhattan, United California Bank and Brierley begin new
banking operation in New Zealand to take over the International
Harvester Credit Co (NZ), Australasian Investment Company.
Participants include Chase Manhattan's Kuwait Asia Bank, D.F.C.,
Saudicorp (Brierley has 12% through Goodman) and United
California, represented by National Insurance which is part of
Equus Holdings.

Renouf sells 20% NZUC to Barclays and prepared for expanding of
operations with Brierley.

Meantime, Murdoch and Brierley expand their close ties by each
taking a piece of New Zealand Maritime Holdings and with the
election imminent, divide up New Zealand media for takeover to
increase Mafia control.  NZ News buys Hawkes Bay News, Nelson
Tribune, Timaru Herald, etc.  Brierley increases holding in
Hauraki Enterprises and other private radio stations.  Brierley
and Murdoch have majority stockholding in NZPA with 48.5%, while
in the UK, Murdoch has large stockholding in Reuters.

The phoney news becomes THE news.

Head of the Murdoch operation is Burnett, who is also on the board
of Winstones - a Brierley company.

September, 1983:  With global heroin epidemic, Rockefeller expands
operations to recycle profits.

New Zealand South British sets up the IDAPS computer bureau to
establish international holding companies, dummy corporations, etc
and to pursue aggressive global acquisition programme.  IDAPS
linked to satellite bureaux in Australia, Far East, UK and the US,
where the global network is completed through links with the
Rockefeller organisation computer network.

General Manager of the operation, George Wheller, previously
director of the international operators of Firemen's Fund (US),
Chairman Du Bain, director of the United California Bank, and
Vice-Chairman of Amex.

As part of the expanded laundry operation, Rockefeller associate
Adnan Kashoggi establishes new Australian bank - Security Pacific
National Bank (Aust).  Brierley's part of this operation is to buy
up computer companies such as Andas, CID Distributors (NZ Apple
computer franchise,etc).

Investment companies begin operations in Australia and New Zealand
to assist recycle Mafia profits.

October 1983:  Brierley takes over NZFP through Watties, helped by
newly- appointed chairman Papps.  Papps also chairman of NZ
Railways and presided over transport deregulation, the major
beneficiaries of which include Watties and Freightways - Managing
Director Pettigrew and Director Lang also both on the NZFP board
with Papps.

Papps also responsible for the railways' electrification programme
with big contracts for Cory Wright & Slamon, whose directors
include I.I McKay, also on the board of NZFP.

Late 1983:  AMAX (Social) gives Gulf Oil a share in the Martha
Hill gold bonanza by selling 15% of its holdings to Briereley
through Goodmans.  Oil companies say that only $870 million worth
of minerals in Martha Hill, while true figure is closer to $3
billion.

21st January, 1984:  Australian Mafia Council meets in Sydney.
Includes - Brierley, Seldon, Fletcher, Jones, Goodman, Hawkins,
Papps, Packer, Bond and Japanese Trilaterist Daigo Miyado.  New
members include J. Elliott, L.  Adler, and Holme's A'Court.
Seldon outlines strategy of merging Australian economy with the
Trilateralist economy through Europe and the US.

In Australia, the Mafia Council will monopolise the economy with
company takeovers through the use of loans at less than 5%.

Holme's A'Court's company would be taken over using Security
Pacific National Bank and Chase Manhattan Bank, with some of the
stock being held in London.

Equiticorp will be launched using Hawkins, with 50% of the stock
held by Security Pacific National Bank and Chase Manhattan in the
US Equiticorp to registered in Hong Kong to cover up true
ownership, and will use the same laundry as Chase Corporation -
Hawkins will set up a maze of shell companies and dummy
organisations to disguise operations.

Hawkins previously associated with Kashoggi when Corporate
Secretary of Marac, and linked with Renouf through their
stockholding in CBA Finance, which is a partner in Commercial
Pacific Trust with United California Bank, Hawkins forms umbrella
company with Chase Corpl,  Jedi Investments and Teltherm and
begins setting up a maze of cross holding companies.  Brierley
retains his connection through his Charter Corporation's holding
in Teltherm.

January 1984:  Brierley and Elliott begin moves to monopolise the
food industry in Australasia by merging Goodman and the Elders
Group, while Brierley sells 10% of Watties to the NZ Dairy Board -
setting the stage for land takeover and establishment of the
Corporate Farm.

February 1984:  New Zealand politician D. Lange meets Ray Cline in
Wellington and agrees to go on the Mafia payroll for monthly fee
of $UA40,000 paid into account number 5263161 at Commercial
Pacific Trust, New Hebrides.

March 1984:  Muldoon knighted with GCMG for keeping the economy
free of obstructions for easier takeover and exploitation.

24th May, 1984:  Four-man CIA team co-ordinated by Ray Cline
arrive in New Zealand to begin installation of equipment for
subliminal television advertising at five sites - Waiatarua, Mt
Erin, Kaukau, Sugarloaf and Obelisk.

Sophisticated equipment can be installed within one kilometer of
TV relay arrials and all linked to one IDAPS computer bureau in
Auckland.

Same equipment installed in Australia August 1985; Japan September
1986; UK February 1987: New York 1987.  Also, Amax geoligists now
estimate Martha Hill gold source could be worth up to $30 billion
on strength of high gold/tonne ore assay.

17th July, 1984:  In New Zealand, subliminal advertising begins on
Channel Two between 6pm and midnight - hours later extended to
begin at noon.  Subliminal messages prepared in the US by the CIA
and with New Zealand election imminent, tell voters to support the
Labour Party, the New Zealand Party and to buy Mafia company
products.

New Zealand Party was formed to ensure that Muldoon would lose, as
Big Business unhappy with controls over economy.  Big campaign
contributions from Brierley, the oil companies and the Business
Round Table ensure a Labour victory.

Later, Lange agrees to repay the favour to Brierley by selling the
Government holding in the Kariori Pulp Mill to Winstones.  New
Zealand taxpayer loses $100 million.

Government then becomes the arm of big business, using economic
policies provided by the  Business Round Table, implemented by
Finance Minister Roger Douglas and the package being sold by David
Lange, who also keeps up a noisy CIA directed ANZUS withdrawal
campaign.

* Reason:  1) ANZUS  Treaty did not cover Mafia requirements over
the Great South Basin discovery;  2) To identify any oppositin or
threats within New Zealand who align themselves with supposed
Government policy, Lange increases the SIS budget and strangthens
links with the CIA.

Brookings Institute are the actual designers of the New Zealand
Government econmomic policies provided by the Business Round Table
(NZ Mafia front) and implented by the Government.

Douglas devalues the dollar and deregulates interest rates, which
means cheaper labour, cheaper capital assets and high mortgage
rates, thereby implementing Big Business policy of driving farmers
off the land, establshment of the corporate farm and eventually
remove viability of small business sector, etc.

27th September, 1984:   New Zealand Mafia meets at new 'safe
house' registered under Fernyhough's name, in Auckland.  Those
present include Brierley, J. Fletcher, Trotter, Jones, Goodman,
Gunn, Papps, Hawkins, Judge, Renouf, Fernyhough, Gibbs and
McConnell.  Daigo Miyado announces appointment of Trotter as
International Vice President of the Trilateral Commission Pacific
Basin Economic Council.

Brierley outlines strategy of privatisation of the New Zealand
Government and the establishment of the New Zealand Centre for
Independent Studies which will be chaired by Gibbs, aided by
Fernyhough and controlled by Cline, which will 'advise' Treasury
on privatisation.

Parsky, Brierley and Seldon hold a separate meeting with Parsky,
outlining plans for an expanded laundry operation which will
coincide with the launch of 'Crack' - a new addictive product
developed by CIA chemists for the world market.

Equiticorp (Aust) will be launched with Adler as Manager and a new
merchant bank using Eldrs, Goodman and Jarden.

IEI will merge with Armco Bank, which has 20 branches in South
East Asia; Ariadne will acquire the Bank of Queensland, and
Brierley Investments will form a cross-shareholding with NZI Corp
to further increase control by their Mafia organisation.  Other
plans include the laundering of funds directly to the New Zealand
and Australian Governments and the establishment of key companies
within the economies of New Zealand, Australia and Hong Kong.

The first key company will control the food industry in
Australasia through merger of Elders, Goodmans, Allied Mills,
Fielder Gillespie and Watties.  Allied Mills will control 30%
Goodmans, 30% Fielder, 20% Watties and will expand into Europe via
acquisition of Rank, Hovis McDougall (UK).  Allied Mills will be
controlled through IEL.

26th October, 1984:  Trotter, Hawkins, Lange and Douglas meet in
Wellington to implement Mafia plans to privatise the Government
and to deregulate the banking system.

Late 1984:  As part of the IDAPS computer-controlled 'laundry'
operation, Trotter and Fletcher help establish the 'Pacific
Investment Fund' with Australian and New Zealand investments to be
managed by Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank subsidiary, Wardley and the
Japanese operation controlled by Tokyo Trust and Banking Company -
owned by Sanwa Bank, Taiyo-Kobe Bank and Nomura Securities.  All
are members of the Rockefeller World Government organisation.

18th July, 1985:  Australian Mafia meet in Sydney to discuss
privatisation of the Australian Government.  Those present include
- Brierley, Trotter, Fletcher, Seldon, Goodman, Papps, Packer,
Bond, Elliott, Adler, and Japanese Trilateralist Daigo Miyado.

Cline will set up Australian Centre for Independent Studies to
'advise' the Treasurer on the takeover of the economy.

Impala Pacific will be set up in Hong Kong through Ariadne with
60% of the company stock held by Chase Manhattan and Security
Pacific National Bank in Australia.  In the UK, Tozer, Kemsly &
MIllbourn would be taken over using IEP, while in Australia, the
Holme's A'Court Bell Group would be used to merge with Hong Kong
and Shanghai Bank, through Standard & Chartered Bank (Hong Kong),
and Marae (NZ) Broadlands (Aust) would merge with NZI
Corporation.

18th August, 1985:  Cline and 6-man CIA team begin installation of
subliminal television equipment in Sydney, Brisbane and Perth.

8th November1985:  Parsky, Colby and J.D Rockefeller meet in New
York to discuss their plans to assassinate McCloy and the
Rockefellers and to take control of the Mafia organisation.

Colby would organise a 8-man 'hit squad' to be headed by Gordon
Liddy who had worked for Colby in the 1960's as a CIA contract
killer, and was responsible for over 10 murders including:

  * 17/8/61 - two members of the Gambino Mafia family in New
     York
  * 24/11/63 - Officer Tippitt after the Kennedy assassination in
     Dallas
  * 18/12/63 - witness to the Kennedy assassination in Dallas
  * 19/4/65 - Politician in Chicago
  *  27/7/65 - Politician in Washington
  *  8/9/65 - Politician in Washington
  *  27/11/66 - US 'independent' cocaine importer, in Mexico.
  *  25/11/67 - 'Independent' heroin importer, in Los Angeles
  *  9/2/69 - Politician in Washington


28th November 1985:  Australian Mafia meet in Sydney - includes:
Trotter, Fletcher, Hawkins, Bond, Elliott, Adler and Holme's
A'Court - discussed strategy for merger of Goodman, Allied Mills,
Fielde Gillespie Davis, Watties and Elders with Chase Manhattan
Bank taking 20%, Elders and IEL 10%, with stock being held through
Chase-AMP Bank.

Elders woul be used as major 'vehicle' in the global liquor
economy with Courage Brewery in the UK to be used as entry into
Europe.

Strategy finalised to take over BHP, Australia's largest company,
using Holme's A'Court, Brierley, Elliott and Hawkins.

In London, Chase Manhattan would takeover stockbrokers Simon &
Coates who specialise in A'Asia Mafia owned companies such as
Fletcher Challenge, Brierley, NZI Corp, Elders, Bell Group and
BHP.  Chase Manhattan could then issue and buy stock to manipulate
the Australasian economy by increasing price, paying no taxes,
creating inflation, and enslaving the people through debt to mafia
controlled banks.

Parsky would oversee the 'launder' of further loans to the NZ
Government and would begin to channel 'loans' through the
Australian Treasury using captive politician Keating.  Also NZ
Government building would be sold to Jones and Australia
Government buildings would be sold to Adler which would then be
rented back to the respective Governments at inflated prices.

17th November 1986:  Brierley, Seldon, Packer, Bond, Elliott,
Holmes a Court and Adler meet in Sydney.  Also present is Rupert
Murdoch to assist in Parsky strategy of media takeover in
Australasia and the Pacific using Packer and Bond (TV and Radio)
Brierley and Holmes A'Court (newspapers).

Murdoch takes orders from Brzezinski since his News Corp was taken
over in 1982 by Chase Manhattan and Security Pacific National
Bank.

At a separate meeting with Brierley, Seldon and Cline, Parsky
outlines plan for 'key' Media Australasian Holding company using
the Bell Group which would be taken over by with Chase Manhattan
holding 27.5% in London and the US.  Another 10% of the stock
would be held through Security Pacific National Bank (US).

8th February 1987:  US Mafia Council meet in Washington -
including David Rockefeller, John McCloy, Brzezinski, Parsky,
Simon, Katherine Graham, and George Franklin.

Brzezinski outlines plans to invade Iran using 75,000 strong
mercenary army supported by US Air Force and Navy with starting
date of 8th February, 1988.  An integral part of the plan Saudi
and Kuwaiti oil tankers would fly the US flag to provoke an
Iranian attack so that US invasion of Iran would be 'justified'.

* Reason:  The Seven Sisters wanted to exploit a secret oil field
near Bandar Abbas discovered in 1976 with estimate 150 billion
barrels and also a huge gold source at Neyshabur discovered in
1977.

The Iranian invasion would begin after the World economic system
was collapsed by the mafia controlled banks - target date 17th
January 1988.  Other countries on the takeover list include:
   * Mexico - for oil at Baisas
   * Nicaragua - for oil at Connto
   * Colombia -  for gold at Papayan
   * South Korea - for gold at Chunchon
   * New Zealand - for oil in the Great South Basin.


(Obviously this part of the plan failed to happen)

------------ END OF THE OPAL FILE ----------------
 
