ÿ


1917 -- United States enters World War I. Russian Revolution 
  begins; Cheka, secret police of Bolsheviks, founded.
1918 -- Assassination of Russian Czar Nicholas II and his family. 
  Attempted assassination of Lenin. New Thought lecturer David Van 
  Bush hires H.P. Lovecraft as a ghost writer.
1919 -- Founding of Thule Society in Germany; Hitler recruited. 
  League of Nations founded at Paris Peace Conference. Meeting at 
  the Majestic Hotel, Paris, between Wilsonian intellectuals (House, 
  Dulles and Dulles, etc.) and "like-minded Englishmen" to discuss 
  forming an organization "for the study of international affairs." 
  Royal Institute of International Affairs founded. Freud draws 
  attention to Austrian neurologist Poetzl's experiments with the 
  tachistroscope, an early device for studying subliminal 
  perception. Charles Fort's "The Book of the Damned" published. 
  Hitler joins the German Workers' Party.
1920s -- Assassination of estimated 400 German public figures 
  begins. U.S. entry into League of Nations blocked in Senate. 
  Development of modern advertising techniques emphasizing 
  manipulation rather than information.
1920 -- GWP becomes the National Socialist German Worker's Party.
1921 -- Council on Foreign Relations incorporated; founded by 
  Wilsonians House, Dulles and company upon their return from Paris, 
  with the help of the Round Table Group. Marconi states he believes 
  mysterious V code on pre-WWI radio came from space; Tesla recalls 
  seeing lights, vivid images, when he was a boy. Hitler takes over 
  the NSGWP.
1922 -- Mussolini, alleged British Intelligence agent, comes to 
  power in Italy, begins attempt to eliminate Mafia in Sicily. Cheka 
  reorganized as GPU, Russian secret police. CFR journal "Foreign 
  Affairs" founded. King Tutankhamen's tomb opened in Egypt, thus 
  invoking "King Tut's Curse"; 14 violent deaths in as many years 
  linked to the curse.
1923 -- Assassination of Pancho Villa in Mexico. Founding of 
  Hitler's National-Socialist (Nazi) Party in Germany. International 
  Police (Interpol) founded in Vienna. In the face of the Teapot 
  Dome and other scandals, President Harding visits Alaska and 
  receives a "long ciphered message" which visibly upsets him, 
  causing him to ask what a president could do when friends betrayed 
  him; he died soon after among conflicting rumors about the cause 
  of his death. Fort's "New Lands" published.
1924 -- J. Edgar Hoover takes over FBI. During Mars' closest 
  approach radios around the world went off the air in order to 
  allow interception of any possible messages from space; when 
  translated onto photographic tape, signals received produced 
  crudely drawn faces. Lovecraft ghostwrites for Houdini.
1925 -- Lionel Curtis organizes the Institutes of Pacific 
  Relations in at least ten countries for the Round Table Group.
1926 -- Suicide of synchronicity researcher Paul Krammerer, 
  biologist, freemason.
1927 -- Rise of the CFR due to Rockefeller and other foundation 
  funding. The Crystal Skull discovered in ruins of Lubaantun in 
  British Honduras.
1928 -- Nomination of Catholic Al Smith sparks last spurt of 
  growth for the KKK. Soviet produced film shows conditioned reflex 
  experiments on humans.
1929 -- CFR moves to Harold Pratt Building on 68th Street. Great 
  Depression begins. Quisling's "About the Matter That Inhabited 
  Worlds Outside Ours and the Significance Caused by It to Our 
  Philosophy of Life" published.
1930 -- Pavlov begins applying knowledge of conditioned reflex to 
  human psychosis.
1930s -- Mafia becomes integral part of the U.S. organized crime. 
  Continuing political assassinations accompany Nazi rise to power.
1931 -- Fort's "Lo!" published.
1932 -- Fort dies after publishing his last book, "Wild Talents."
1933 -- Attempted assassination of Franklin Roosevelt; Chicago 
  mayor Cermak killed instead. FDR orders use of Great Seal of the 
  U.S. on reverse side of the dollar bill. Reichstag Fire, set by 
  Nazis, used to suspend civil liberties.
1934 -- Assassination of S.M. Kirov, Soviet leader and Stalin 
  collaborator. Russian GPU renamed NKVD. Beginning of Hitler's 
  Black Order. Unexplained "ghostflier" broadcasts in Sweden.
1935 -- Assassination of Senator Huey Long. First lobotomy 
  performed by Egas Moniz in Lisbon.
1936 -- Beginning of Moscow Purge trials in which numerous 
  communist leaders were brainwashed into false confessions and then 
  executed.
1937 -- Spanish Civil War begins. First of 48 "Lost Colony" stones 
  found in North Carolina; stones supposedly tell the story of lost 
  Roanoke Island colony. Amelia Earhart Putnam, aviator, disappears.
1938 -- Assassination of Leon Sedov, Trotsky's son; first 
  assassination attempt against Trotsky. Nazi invasion of Austria; 
  Interpol exiled -- or taken over by Nazis; German expedition to 
  Antarctica stakes out 600,000 square kilometers, lands near the 
  South Pole. Electroshock treatment discovered. Orson Welles' 
  dramatization of H.G. Wells' "War of the Worlds" scares American 
  radio listeners.
1939 -- Attorney Leon Cooke, friend of Jack Ruby and financial 
  secretary of the union which employed Ruby, killed by union 
  president Jack Martin; union subsequently taken over by Mafia. 
  League of Nations suspended. Germany invades Poland; World War II 
  begins. CFR offers it services to U.S. State Dept. Interpol 
  grouped with Gestapo. Amateur radio astronomer Grote Reber 
  receives dot-dash signal from space. Attempted assassination of 
  Hitler.
1940 -- Assassination of Leon Trotsky in Mexico. British secret 
  police renamed MI-5 and MI-6 for duration of war. Interpol moved 
  to near Berlin., with Reinhard Heydrich in charge. Nazis allegedly 
  begin building Hitler's secret hideout in Antarctica. Roosevelt 
  sends Gen. "Wild Bill" Donovan on info-gathering mission to 
  Europe; Donovan recommends a central intelligence organization. 
  U.S. State Dept. creates Division of Special Research headed by 
  CFR member Pasbolsky.
1941 -- Japan attacks U.S. Fleet at Pearl Harbor, allegedly 
  through the maneuvering of Roosevelt and his advisors to provide 
  an excuse to enter the war. Donovan made head of new Office of 
  Coordinator of Information. "The Books of Charles Fort" published.
1942 -- Assassination of Interpol chief Heydrich in 
  Czechloslavakia. Donovan's OCI evolves into the Office of 
  Strategic Services (OSS).
1943 -- LSD-25 discovered by Swiss chemist Albert Hofmann. Nazi 
  Admiral Doenitz boasts the German submarine fleet has built "in 
  another part of the world a Shangri-La on land, an impregnable 
  fortress." Juan Peron and other pro-Nazi leaders take power in 
  Argentina. Pilots on both sides of the war report seeing "foo-
  fighters," unexplained flying objects, while flying war missions.
1944 -- Attempted assassination of Hitler. Nazis begin sending 
  millions of dollars worth of jewels, paintings and cash to 
  Argentina for safe keeping. Russian NKVD reorganized as MGB. 
  Donovan prepares plan for Roosevelt to establish a central 
  intelligence agency which is pigeonholed, later reconsidered by 
  Truman. American band leader Glenn Miller disappears on unarmed 
  flight over the English Channel.
1945 -- Alleged assassination (suicide) of James Forrestal at 
  Bethesda Hospital Neurological Ward, after his attempt to warn 
  Roosevelt of Illuminati plot. Roosevelt dies, Truman becomes 
  president. Mussolini killed. Hitler allegedly escapes from Berlin 
  after arranging for a fake suicide cover story; Hitler's death 
  announced, Admiral Doenitz takes command; submarines U-530, U-977 
  and others begin secret journey from Norway soon after Quisling 
  allegedly refused Hitler's offer to take him "aboard a submarine 
  to a safe refuge"; two months after Germany surrenders submarines 
  U-530 and U-977 give themselves up in Mar del Plata, Argentina, 
  after allegedly being lost from the submarine convoy taking Hitler 
  and others to their hideout in Antarctica; Nazi leader Martin 
  Bormann escapes without a trace from Berlin after supervising 
  Hitler's "suicide." First atomic bombs dropped. World War II ends. 
  General Gehlen, Head of Nazi Intelligence, captured by U.S. Army 
  and flown to Washington; other Nazi and British agents imported to 
  U.S., along with Werner Von Braun and other developers of the V-2 
  rockets. Interpol dissolved -- or reorganized with headquarters in 
  Paris, the story varies. OSS disbanded, its agents moving to 
  military intelligence agencies and the State Dept. CFR allegedly
  takes over State Dept. United Nations founded. "Official beginning 
  of Bermuda Triangle mystery," when Flight 19, made up of five 
  naval bombers, disappears off the coast of Florida; another plane 
  sent to investigate also disappears -- 6 planes and 27 men 
  vanished. An Air Force plane's engines fail over Iwo Jima as foo-
 fighters maneuver around it.
1946 -- Murder of wire service king James Ragen by Syndicate 
  friends of Jack Ruby; indictment dropped following additional 
  murders. John Kennedy and Richard Nixon elected to House of 
  Representatives. Truman's executive order sets up the National 
  Intelligence Authority and Central Intelligence Group. Gehlen 
  returns to Germany to continue intelligence work for U.S. Army. 
  Interpol reorganization meeting held in Brussels. Admiral Byrd 
  allegedly leads Naval "research" expedition to Antarctica to 
  attack Hitler's secret hideout; attempt allegedly fails and Hitler 
  and his "UFO scientists" continue their activities. Waves of 
  unexplained "ghost rockets" seen in Europe, especially 
  Scandanavia.
1947 -- Attempted assassination of Minneapolis Mayor Hubert 
  Humphrey. Partition of India receives "strong impetus from the 
  Round Table Group." National Security Act establishes Dept. of 
  Defense, National Security Council and Central Intelligence 
  Agency. France creates SDECE, similar to CIA. Second UFO flap 
  year; Kenneth Arnold reports flying saucers near Yakima, 
  Washington, and other reports soon follow. Maury Island "hoax": an 
  early Men-In-Black incident three days before the Arnold sighting, 
  in which a "donut-shaped object" dropped slag on a boat near 
  Tacoma, Washington; the next day an MIB visited Harold Dahl, who 
  was piloting the boat, and warned him not to discuss the sighting; 
  the boat's owner, Fred Crisman, was suspected of being a CIA 
  employee and was later called to give secret testimony at the 
  trial of Clay Shaw in New Orleans; pilot Dahl disappeared and 
  UFOlogist Arnold, who investigated the case, reported unexplained 
  failure of his own plane's engine soon after two Air Force 
  investigators were killed taking off from Tacoma's airport.
1948 -- Assassination of Mahatma Gandhi. Attempted assassination 
  of labor leader Walter Reuther. Beginning of Operation Ohio, a CIA 
  program responsible for one hundred European assassinations during 
  the next ten years. Beginning of CIA interest in UFOs as a 
  "security" problem. McCord employed by the FBI. Nixon gains 
  prominence in the Alger Hiss case as member of the House Un-
  American Activities Committee; goes to Miami where he meets Bebe 
  Rebozo and goes yachting with other underworld-connected figures. 
  Martin Bormann reported living in Argentina. New nation of Israel 
  creates Central Institute for Intelligence and Security. World 
  Council of Churches founded in Amsterdam.
1949 -- Report critical of CIA filed and forgotten, unread by 
  Truman; Central Intelligence Act exempts CIA from disclosure laws. 
  E. Howard Hunt becomes CIA agent; Clay Shaw becomes agent for 
  CIA's Domestic Contact Service. The Gehlen Organization 
  transferred to CIA control. U.S. Army begins 20 years of simulated 
  germ warfare attacks against American cities, conducting at least 
  239 open air tests. Interpol granted consultive status by UN. 
  Chaing Kai-shek flees to Formosa; mainland China taken by 
  communist leaders; Social Affairs Dept. and other Chinese secret 
  police created. Trial of Cardinal Mindszenty in Hungary following 
  his brainwashing and confession of conspiracy.
1950 -- Attempted assassination of Truman by Puerto Rican 
  nationalists. Korean War begins. Congress passes McCarran's 
  Internal Security Act setting up program for detention of 
  subversives. Hiss convicted of perjury; Nixon elected to Senate 
  after smear campaign against California opponent. U.S. Army 
  engages in "simulated" germ warfare in San Francisco and the 
  Pentagon. National Council of Churches founded in U.S. CIA 
  organizes the Pacific Corporation, a large holding company which 
  was the first of many CIA "private" enterprises. Alleged CIA plot 
  to introduce UFO contact ideas with "Little Green Men" stories and 
  radio contact "from space." Malcolm X receives visit from an MIB 
  while in prison. "Worlds in Collision" by Immanuel Velikovsky 
  proposes a catastrophic theory of ancient history in which a huge 
  "comet" of matter is ripped out of Jupiter, approaches Earth close 
  enough to cause universal fire/flood legends in primitive folklore 
  and the settles into orbit as a new planet, Venus; Velikovsky 
  receives ridicule and contempt from his fellow scientists, thought
  20 years later Jupiter is generally considered a "cold star" 
  rather than a planet and Velikovsky's prediction of a hot climate 
  on Venus is confirmed. Approximate starting date of building of 
  Mount Weather, secret American government fortress.
1951 -- Assassination of Ali Razmara of Iran, Riad Al-Sulh and 
  Abdullah of Jordan and Ali Knah Liaquat of Pakistan. Army 
  simulated germ warfare project in Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania. 
  Approximate date CBS begins active cooperation with CIA. McCord 
  moves from FBI to CIA. North Korean brainwashing of American 
  prisoners begins. TIME magazine popularizes the term 
  "brainwashing."
1952 -- Eisenhower elected president, Nixon vice-president; 
  Kennedy elected to Senate. Army germ warfare project in Key West, 
  Florida, and Ft. McCellan, Alabama. CIA agent Downey and Fecteau 
  captured while on spy mission in China. Third UFO flap year. First 
  UFO "contact" case: George Adamski meets Venusians in California 
  desert; alleged CIA plot to start UFO scare. UFOlogist George 
  Williamson, one of Adamski's witnesses, claims he also witnessed 
  ham radio operator establish contact with another world.
1953 -- Dr. Frank Olsen commits suicide after having been given a 
  secret dose of LSD by the CIA, under the direction of the 
  mysterious Dr. Sidney Gottlieb. CIA contemplates developing drugs 
  to cause amnesia in retired agents. CIA's Robertson Panel views  
  UFO reports as national security threat. Army germ warfare project 
  in Panama City, Florida. Return of Korean War prisoners, including 
  some who underwent brainwashing. 21 POWs defect. Mau Mau (Hidden 
  Ones) formed in Kenya to overthrow white rule. UFOlogist Albert 
  Bender closes down his International Flying Saucer Bureau after 
  being visited by three MIB.
1954 -- Attempted assassinations of several U.S. Congressmen by 
  Puerto Rican nationalists. First Bilderberger meeting takes place 
  at the Bilderberg Hotel, Oosterbeek, Holland. Condemnation by the 
  U.S. Senate of Joseph McCarthy following his charges of subversion 
  in high places. Hunt involved in CIA overthrow of communist regime 
  in Guatemala, Carlos Castillo-Armas becomes president. Richard 
  Bissell joins the CIA. Army germ warfare project in Point Mugu and 
  Fort Hueneme, California. Russian KGB created to replace earlier 
  secret police. Broadcaster Frank Edwards fired for discussing UFOs 
  on the air. Strange voice "from space" speaks from turned-off 
  radios in midwest U.S. and London, warns against preparations for 
  war.
1955 -- Assassination of Jose Antonio Remon of Panama and Adnan 
  Al-Malki of Syria. Bilderberger meeting in Barbizon, France. Lee 
  Harvey Oswald meets David Ferrie of the New Orleans Civil Air 
  Patrol. Doug Durham joins the Marines. The Office of Naval 
  Research allegedly receives a copy of Morris Jessup's "The Case 
  for the UFOs" with marginal notes in three different hands, 
  supposedly by "Gypsies" knowledgeable in UFOlogy; ONR reprints 
  several hundred copies for internal use; an MIB called "Carlos 
  Allende" is implicated in the affair.
1956 -- Assassination of Anastasio Somoza of Nicaragua. 
  Bilderberger meeting in Frednsborg, Denmark. Clay Shaw's CIA 
  contact allegedly stopped. Oswald joins Marines. Durham receives 
  special CIA training. UFOlogist Gray Barker publishes "They Knew 
  Too Much About Flying Saucers" which reported numerous MIB 
  incidents.
1957 -- Assassination of Carlos Castillo-Armas of Guatemala. 
  Exiled Ukranian politician Lev Rebet assassinated by KGB agent in 
  Munich. Alleged assassination of Joseph McCarthy at Bethesda 
  Hospital Neurological Ward, after warning of Illuminati plot. 
  Bilderberger meetings in St. Simon Island, Georgia, and Fiuggui, 
  Italy. Oswald assigned to base at Atsugi, Japan, where CIA U-2 
  planes were launched; shoots self in elbow. General Edwin Walker 
  commands federal troops sent to enforce racial integration at 
  Little Rock, Arkansas. CIA helps Iran form SAVAK, secret police 
  later accused of assassination Iranian dissidents. Experiments in 
  behavior modification sleep-teaching take place at California 
  penal institution Woodland Road Camp. Fourth UFO flap year. Anti-
  atomic bomb propaganda disseminated by saucer clubs -- another CIA
  plot? Unexplained short wave radio signals received worldwide.
1958 -- Assassination of Abdul Llah, Faisal II and Nuri Al-Said of 
  Iraq. Bilderberger meeting in Buxton, England. Russia launches 
  first space satellites. Unidentified ex-Marine lives in Minsk, 
  USSR, apparently gathering information for the CIA. Oswald on 
  maneuvers in the Philippines involving U-2 flights. Francis Gary  
  Powers released from Air Force and assigned to covert CIA spying. 
  Kerry Thornley and Gregory Hill found Discordianism and publish
  "Principia Discordia, or How I Found Goddess and What I Did To 
  Her When I Found Her"; Thornley joins Marine Corps. John Birch
  Society organized by Robert Welch. Nelson Rockefeller elected
  governor of New York. Ham radio operators pick up a male voice
  claiming to be Nacoma of Jupiter and warning of atomic bomb 
  disaster in English, German, Norweigian and his own unknown 
  language.
1959 -- Assassination of Solomon W.R. Bandaranaike of Ceylon. 
  Exiled Ukranian politician Stephan Bandera assassinated by KGB 
  agent in Munich. Attempted assassination of Senator Bircher of 
  Ohio and Governor Almond of Virginia. Apparent suicide of UFO 
  researcher Morris Jessup who had received communications from 
  "Carlos Allende," one of the MIB and whose book was mysteriously 
  annoted by UFOlogical Gypsies. Bilderberger meeting in Yesilkov, 
  Turkey. Fidel Castro assumes power in Cuba; Cuban Intelligence 
  (DGI) begun. Ruby visits casino owner in Havana. Kerry Thornley 
  first meets fellow Marine Oswald in California; Oswald released 
  from Marines, defects to Russia. Thornley assigned to U-2 base in 
  Atsugi, Japan. Durham discharged from Marines, stationed at CIA 
  base in Guatemala. UFO sighting at CIA headquarters after Naval 
  officer contacts "space people" while in CIA-observed trance. 
  Condon's "The Manchurian Candidate" published.
1960 -- Assassination of Hazza Majali of Jordan. Bilderberger 
  meeting in Burgenstock, Switzerland. Eisenhower authorizes 
  training and arming Cuban exiles, allegedly issues orders for the 
  assassination of Congolese leader Patrice Lumumba. Nixon, CIA 
  agent Bissell and others plan Bay of Pigs invasion, obtain 
  permission to use Guatemala as launching point. Bernard Baker 
  serves as conduit for Bay of Pigs funding. CIA buys Southern Air 
  Transport; contemplates development of "recruitment pills" and 
  other drugs; studies mysterious amnesia of Korean war prisoners 
  moved through Manchuria; contemplates giving truth serum to 
  brainwashed American POWs. CIA spy Powers shot down in U-2 over 
  Russia; summit conference cancelled. Kennedy-Nixon debates; 
  Kennedy elected president. Oswald assigned job in Bellorussian 
  Radio Factory in Minsk, USSR. Thornley discharged from Marines.
  Project Ozma, searching for intelligent signals from another part
  of the universe, receives unexplained signals from space.
1961 -- Assassination of Lumumba of the Congo, Rafael Trujillo 
  Molina of the Dominican Republic and Louis Rivagasore of Nurundi. 
  Attempted assassination of Castro by Hans Tanner. Michael 
  Rockefeller disappears in New Guinea. Bilderberger meeting in 
  Quebec, Canada. Thornley arrives to New Orleans; Slim Brooks gives 
  Thornley "the haircut" on his 23rd birthday; the same day, the
  CIA invasion of Cuba at the Bay of Pigs, launched from Guatemala,
  fails due to poor planning and cancellation of support by Kennedy;
  the CIA, the Mob, Cuban-exiles, right-wingers and Nixonites
  supposedly vow revenge against Kennedy. Kennedy develops
  extracurricular relationship with Judith Campbell, Sam Giancana's
  girlfriend; Giancana and John Roselli enlisted by CIA to attempt
  Castro assassination. George De Mohrenschildt on hiking trip 
  through Guatemala. Brooks introduces Thornley to his
  "brother-in-law," Gary Kirstein, allegedly an undercover E. Howard 
  Hunt; Thornley and "Kirstein" begin nearly three-year relationship 
  of discussing Nazis, mind-control, the status of philosopher-
  kings,  and plans to assassinate Kennedy. Robert Morrow, working  
  with Ruby, Shaw and Ferrie, allegedly smuggle weapons from Greece 
  to Central America for the CIA; also picks up information for CIA 
  from "Harvey" in the Soviet Union. Ferrie, Gordon Novel and two 
  others arrested in burglary of Louisiana arms bunker. Unidentified 
  Marine from Minsk divulges information to CIA agent in Copenhagen. 
  General Walker resigns after criticism of his anti-communist 
  indoctrination of troops. U.S. Military Advisor Group begins 
  defoliation project in Vietnam which eventually covers over 12% of 
  land area. Milgram's Yale experiments demonstrating dangers of 
  obedience to authority. Unexplained transmissions from space 
  monitored by ham radio operators worldwide; Bob Renaud, ham 
  operator, allegedly makes contact with aliens.
1962 -- Suicide of Marilyn Monroe under questionable 
  circumstances. Bilderberger meeting in Saltsjobaden, Sweden. 
  Oswald returns to America with his Russian wife, an alleged KGB 
  agent. Retired General Walker arrested on Attorney Robert 
  Kennedy's orders when Walker became involved in the racial 
  disorders in Oxford, Mississippi; Walker stripped naked and flown 
  to Springfield, Missouri, prison for examination; Walker reported 
  to be incompetent but was later released and ran against John 
  Connally for Governor of Texas. Hunt becomes head of CIA's new 
  Domestic Operations Division. CIA interference in Ecuadorian 
  politics. CIA allegedly pays a Canadian agriculture technician to 
  infect Cuban turkeys with Newcastle disease (though the technician 
  supposedly double-crossed them). Ruby allegedly flies from Mexico 
  City to visit Havana. CIA begins using secret terror teams in 
  Vietnam, roots of Operation Phoenix. Dr. Edgar Schein outlines 
  behavior modification programs for U.S. prisons, based on Korean 
  brainwashing techniques. Cuban missile crisis. De Mohrenschildt, 
  friend of the Kennedys, befriends the Oswalds in Dallas. Durham 
  employed by Des Moines Police Dept. UFOlogist Williamson 
  disappears in South America. Film version of "The Manchurian 
  Candidate" released.

