                      RFK1.TXT


The following extract is submitted to resurrect long
forgotten material concerning the assassination of Robert F,
Kennedy.  The evidence for conspiracy that it presents,
regarding the assassination, speaks for itself.  I do not
necessarily agree that there was a second conspiracy to
cover it up, as does the cited source.  I believe, rather,
that the obscurity of the material is a classic
manifestation of Collective Denial, resulting in the
seemingly irrational appearance of secondary suppression
suggested here.  As an example of Collective Denial by
investigators, and the press, content versus coverage leaves
no other logical analysis.  The evidence was Too Bad to be
True, and therefore "invisible" in the most literal sense.
The most important aspect of the article may well be its
demonstration of the power of clinical Collective Denial.
That there was something to Deny is clearly stated.

                    Robert Sabaroff
                    71251,2445



           EXTRACT FROM "COMPUTERS & AUTOMATION
       CONCERNING EVIDENCE IN THE RFK ASSASSINATION


     The following partial text is extracted verbatim from
the periodical, "COMPUTERS AND AUTOMATION; The magazine of
the design, applications, and implications of information
processing systems.", Vol. 19, No. 10, October, 1970. a
Editorial Offices; Berkeley Enterprises, Inc., 815
Washington Street, Newtonville, Mass. 02160.  Advertising
contact, The Publisher (617) 332-5453.  Circulation audited
by the Audit Bureau of Circulations.

From the Table of Contents;

    "52  THE CONSPIRACY TO ASSASSINATE SENATOR ROBERT F.
     KENNEDY AND THE SECOND CONSPIRACY TO COVER IT UP
     By Richard E. Sprague

    "A summary of what researchers are uncovering in
     their investigation of what appears to be not one
     but two conspiracies relating to the assassina-
     tion of Senator Robert F. Kennedy.

    "56  INDEX TO "SPECIAL UNIT SENATOR: The Investigation

     of the Assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy"
     An index is supplied for the Random House book
     written by Robert A. Houghton, of the Los Angeles
     Police Department, about the investigation of the
     assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy."

[The second listing is offered both for the benefit of
researchers and to give context to references to Houghton in
material excerpted from the p. 52 article, above].

[To assess the character of the publication, and a non-
political, socially aware side of the nature of computer
research in the public sector in 1970, there also appears an
article, on P. 14, "COMPUTERS AND THE CONSUMER, by Ralph
Nader").


*[The following is not and never has been Classified, and
owning or showing it violates no section of the National
Security Act.  It is not a criminal or subversive act to
view it or its contents].*

                       [P. 52]

[Boxed editorial preface at top of page]: "_Computers and
Automation_ believes that the possibility of conspiracies of
important American leaders in our times is of the utmost
significance to every American - and especially to computer
people, because computers can be used: to handle large
amounts of information easily; to correlate the information
rapidly; to prove or disprove or possibilities of
conspiracy; etc.  Therefore, computer people can make a
unique and important contribution to society in this area.
Already a computerized of analysis of information regarding
the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in underway
in Washington.
   "Accordingly, _Computers and Automation_ is publishing
from time to time articles and reports on investigations
into assassinations; the major evidence; and the application
of computers to the evidence.  Our purpose is to present
important, useful, and authoritative information in order
to find out the truth.  Since this subject is not receiving
adequate and comprehensive coverage anywhere else that we
know of, _Computers and Automation_ has taken the
responsibility to publish.
   "No scientist, no honest man, ever refuses to consider
new evidence or to correct errors.  If corrections are
needed or new evidence appears, _Computers and Animation_
will publish both.


        "THE CONSPIRACY TO ASSASSINATE SENATOR
      ROBERT F. KENNEDY AND THE SECOND CONSPIRACY
                  TO COVER IT UP

               "Richard E. Sprague,
               Hartsdale, N.Y.


  "In June 1970, a group action suit was filed in Los
Angeles on behalf of all the residents of the State of
California by Theodore Charach, a free-lance journalist, to
force the Los Angeles Police Department to make public
additional information in their possession relating to a
possible conspiracy in the assassination of Senator Robert
F. Kennedy in June 1958...
   "...The Charach suit...claims that another man also fired
shots, and that it was likely that he, not Sirhan, was the
killer.  Charach, and his lawyer, Godfrey Isaac, held a
press conference on Thursday, June 4, 1970, in Los Angeles
to announce the filing of the suit and its withdrawal.  The
withdrawal was made so that the defendants would have an
opportunity to assess all of Charach's findings.
   "The only news organization apparently that this story
was the _Los Angeles Free Press_ (7813 Beverly Blvd., Los
Angeles, California, 90036 [in 1970] in their June 12-18,
1970, issue.  The news of this suit was not published in
any other of the Los Angeles papers, nor distributed by the
Associated Press, United Press International, or Reuters,
nor published in the _New York Times_, nor published or
broadcast by many other important new media...


            "STATEMENTS IN THE CHARACH SUIT

   "The assassin that is suggested in the suit of Theodore
Charach was a uniformed security guard employed on a
contract basis by the Ambassador Hotel to guard Senator
Kennedy. His name is Thane Eugene Cesar, a part time
employee, at the time, of the Ace Security Guard Service in
Los Angeles, and a known right-wing supporter of George
Wallace and hater of the Kennedys'.

   "Cesar's name is mentioned in a book and in an article,
both by Robert Blair Kaiser. The book is to be published in
the fall of 1970.  The article was published in "LADIES HOME
JOURNAL" magazine in May 1970 and is entitled "RFK Must
Die." Cesar is quoted in the article as saying he did draw
his service revolver at the time Kennedy was hit, but
replaced it in his holster because Sirhan was by then under
control.

   "Charach's suit  says that District Attorney Evelle
Younger, Chief of Police Edward M. Davis, and Deputy Chief
Robert A. Houghton (also author of the book "Special Unit
Senator" on the assassination published 1970 by Random
House) have all purposely concealed from the people of
California, without the legal right to do so, the following
alleged facts:


     "1.  Senator Robert F. Kennedy was NOT killed by a
   bullet from the gun of Sirhan B. Sirhan.

     "2. Another gun was fired at RFK at the same time.

     "3.  The fatal shot did not come from the direction
   of Sirhan's position.

     "4. A witness, Donald Schulman, an employee of KNX-
   TV,  SAW Cesar fire his gun while standing directly
   behind Senator Kennedy.  Schulman saw Kennedy being hit
   from behind by three bullets. Schulman was interviewed
   about what he saw within minutes after the assassination;
   but he was not called as a witness at Sirhan's trial; nor
   was he mentioned in Evelle Younger's report to the people
   of California; nor was he mentioned in Houghton's book,
   'Special Unit Senator.'...

     "5.  Karl Uecker, the maitre d' who was escorting
   Senator Kennedy through the pantry where he was shot, saw
   Cesar with his drawn gun in his hand, immediately after
   Uecker helped  subdue Sirhan.  Younger, Davis, and
   Houghton (asserts Charach) did not present this evidence
   to the jury or at the Sirhan trial.

     "6.  Cesar's presence in the pantry, his possession
   of a gun, his drawing of the gun from his holster, and
   his close  proximity to  Kennedy's back  were  all
   suppressed. Cesar was never called to testify before the
   grand jury or at the trial. (Houghton's book even states
   that there were NO security guards at the doors or in the
   kitchen at the time of the shooting, and that NO persons
   of right wing connections were in the pantry; this is
   simply not true.)

     "7.  The facts determined at the autopsy by Dr.
   Thomas T. Noguchi, coroner, were glossed over, changed,
   or not allowed to be presented before the grand jury or
   at the trial.

     "8. One of these facts was that the fatal wound was
   caused by a bullet in the head, the trajectory of which
   was back to front, right to left, and upward. Sirhan WAS
   NEVER in a position to have fired on that trajectory.
   Cesar WAS.

     "9.  A second of these facts was that the fatal
   wound was inflicted from a distance of one inch to three
   inches, while two other wounds fired from the rear were
   inflicted from a distance of less than six inches away.
   Sirhan was never closer to Kennedy than several feet
   away. Cesar was right behind him and to his right.

     "10.  Dr. Noguchi started to testify about the
   wounds at the Sirhan trial, but was stopped by the judge.


                 "OTHER EVIDENCE

   "....

      "The Sounds of Three Shots Recorded on Tape

   "Several TV and radio network microphones were open and
operating during  the shooting.  They were all in the
Ambassador Ballroom, quite a distance from the pantry. One
of these microphones, attached to an American Broadcasting
Corp. TV camera, produced a live and video tape recording of
the event.  Researchers in New York City have examined this
tape and found that only THREE shots can be heard above the
noise of the crowd.
   "The microphone was continuously open from the time
Kennedy left the podium until all the shots had been fired
and for some time beyond that. The TV video tape with sound
shows that there were no breaks in either picture or
sound...
   "Now, the fact that ONLY THREE shots can be heard
confirms the probability that more than one gun was being
fired, and that shots from a second gun are those recorded
on the tape.  Sirhan's gun shots were apparently not loud
enough to be recorded.  If they had been, all eight of his
shots should have been audible also."

(NOTE: Sirhan was firing a .22. Cesar had a service
revolver).

        "SOUND TEST BY THE LOS ANGELES POLICE

   "Confirmation of the evidence that Sirhan's gun could not
have been heard above the crowd noise from the position of
the ABC microphone is presented on pages 118-119 of "Special
Unit Senator," Houghton's  book.  Unwittingly, thus,
Houghton presents evidence of a second presents evidence of
a second gun, whereas he had intended the evidence to help
prove there was no conspiracy.
   "The following is quoted from the book:

        "The next day, June 20, Pena [L.A. Police Lt.
     Manny Pena]  ordered sound  level tests to be
     conducted at the Ambassador to determine whether a
     gun fired in the pantry could be heard by the stairs
     outside the opposite end of the Embassy Room. The
     two locations were approximately a hundred yards,
     and many walls, drapes and doors apart.
        "Officer DeWayne Wolfer conducted the sound
     tests at the hotel between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m.
     when...there was no talking, shouting, or music to
     deaden the sounds of the shots... "

(Houghton's text, as quoted by COMPUTERS AND AUTOMATION,
goes on to give technical details of the test, how the
ammunition and firing position was duplicated, etc.,
particularly noting measurements taken at the location from
which Sandra Serrano, a Kennedy worker, claimed to have
heard the shots).

        "...registered no greater change than one half
     decibel during ANY of the tests. ...The minimum
     change in noise level discernible for people with
     normal hearing is two decibels...
        "She [Sandra Serrano] obviously thought, in the
     furor of the moment, that she heard and saw certain
     things which were not physically possible or did not
     actually occur. It happens every day. ...People ...
     hear something which cannot be detected by the most
     sensitive electronic device.

   "Now Houghton is right on one count; Miss Serrano did not
hear the shots from Sirhan's gun... What she did hear,
however, was the sound of a second gun firing three shots...
   "Also, the crowd noise was present. Nearly everyone in
the ballroom interviewed heard a few shoots.  Why wouldn't
they, if the microphones 300 to 400 feet away on the podium
recorded the three shots?
   "In this way, Houghton, in an effort to invalidate Miss
Serrano's report, unwittingly produced just the right test
to prove that a gun, not Sirhan's but a second gun, was
firing."

       "SECRECY OVER THE RFK AUTOPSY REPORT

   "The reports on the autopsy of Senator Robert F. Kennedy
have been suppressed in three separate ways: first, by the
judge's ruling before the trial of Sirhan; second, by
attempts to silence the coroner, Dr. Thomas Noguchi, by
intimidation; and third, by passing a special California law
making the autopsy reports secret for 75 years.
   "The attempts to intimidate Dr. Noguchi are like a scene
out of the movie "Z". After he told in public the results of
the autopsy, he was accused of being insane and fired. He
took the issue to court and won a victory, when his lawyer,
Godfrey Isaac threatened to subpoena the autopsy and
introduce it in court.  Then the Los Angeles Police Dept.
rehired Noguchi.

                    "SUMMARY

   "To summarize, the officials of the Los Angeles Police
Department have been and still are suppressing important
evidence about the RFK assassination.  This evidence points
toward a conspiracy, with Sirhan being a patsy, toward a
hotel security guard firing the three shots which hit
RFK..."

                 -----------------

