

 EXPOSE: Rockefeller Syndicate - Secret Govt pt 1 (53K)



This text is being posted with the intent to EDUCATE those of you who
know not the silent and pervasive influence of your hidden masters. Some
have looked for shadows of the old illuminati; they look amiss, not seeing
that which is all around them. If you know not the "who" and the "why",
efforts will be mis-directed. This is NOT a "conspiracy"..nay, it is a
very cold and calculated NETWORK of individuals whose intent is nothing
short of implementation of a "New World Order"; an oligarchic rein in which
*you* serve as little more that slaves in their "technocracy". This network
has every intention to implement a cashless society, for it is they who
control every aspect of finance and banking over the entire globe. They
have had about 100 years to perfect their plans and put them into practice.
 
Please understand that the Bilderbergers, the Council on Foreign Relations,
the Tri-lateral Commission,the Institute for Policy Studies, the Roundtables,
the "Club of Rome",etc are ALL bound by common denominators of long-standing
families ties, and interests and come together as a _single_ policy making
body that is known today as "The Committee of 300" . This has also been
known as "The Olympians", the "Policy Committee".
 
Don't be mis-led by labels such as "Rockefeller" or "Rothschild"; for these
are simply the families who have the mechanisms of control already set in
place,but of themselves are not the entire network; that being the
"Committee of 300". It is THEY who control the UN, who tell the heads of
nations "when to jump and how high", they who are behind the world's illicit
drug trade via the CIA and the old British East India links. They who
manage the IMF,set policy at GATT conferences. It is they who ARE the
"Shadow Government". It is they who manage the CIA,NSA,DIA..the same
group that took out JFK and have MURDERED around 173 people in their efforts
to suppress the truth about all the links..they who were behind the
assassination of RFK,MLK..they who are behind the suppression of truth
regarding the MIA's; It is the same group behind E. Howard Hunt,
John Singlaub, Ollie North..the very same group who brought down Richard
Nixon in Watergate..the same group behind the persecution of the Christic
Institute..the same people who were behind Nugan-Hand..the same group
that groomed Jimmy Carter for the Presidency..the same group who ARE
the "Military-Industrial complex", the same group behind the total
militarization of NASA..the same group who ARE "MJ-12", were behind the
"Jason Group"..the same behind Project Blue Book, The Condon Committee,
the same who started up the NSA..who are responsible for the MURDER of
Danny Casalaro..the same group responsible for the world-wide DISINFO
campaign regarding the TRUTH of UFO sightings and contacts. The very
SAME group who OWN THE MEDIA..ie..The Washington Post, NBC (General
Electric),ABC,CBS,The New York Times,etc. The same group behind the
the Warren Commission,ad nauseum..
 
I DO believe I could make a DIRECT connection here with just what 
CIABASE says on WACKENHUT that also ties in the Shadow Government
with UFO related installations; this is but *ONE* connection..there
are many,many more that can be and will be ferreted out for exposure.



===== Begin Included article =============================================


Message #6041 - INFO.PARANET 
   Date : 16-Jan-92 19:46
   From : Don Ecker
     To : John Galt
Subject : Wackenhut
John Galt said:

 > Wackenhut Corp., one of the nation's largest security firms, said Friday
 > it has bought the U.S. security operations of ISS International Service
 > System Inc.  The purchase price was not disclosed.  ISS International
 > has more than 700 employees in its U.S. security operations, primarily
 > in Jacksonville, Los Angeles, Dallas, Atlanta, Cleveland and
 > Chattanooga, Tenn.

In several investigations that I am currently involved in for UFO Magazine as
well as my radio show "UFOs Tonite", I have come across the Wackenhut
connection. As many of you may know, Wackenhut is responsible for outside
security around Area 51 and site S-4. Last year there was a helicopter crash
in Las Vegas that killed a number of Wackenhut employees, plus they are
involved in the Inslaw scandel. At any rate much more than I can go into here.
However************

I checked CIABASE and came up with the following. Incidently, all sources are
available for the following information if requested.

Read and contemplate.

*****************************************************************************

CIABASE FILES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONFLICT, LI

  PERU,  88-91  PRIVATE SECURITY CORPORATION FORMING IMPORTANT ROLE
  IN LIC-DRUG OPERATIONS. FROM 1981-91, PERUVIAN SECURITY CORPORATIONS
  INCREASED FROM 80 TO 350, PLUS 150 UNOFFICIAL ORGANIZATIONS. AMONG
  THOSE IS WACKENHUT CORP, WHOSE EMPLOYEES CONSIST OF MANY EX-CIA,
  DEA, FBI MEMBERS. Z 11/90 87

DOMESTIC OP

  CHILE, CUBA. WACKENHUT CORP OF CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA. PROVIDES
  SECURITY SYSTEMS THRUOUT WORLD. INMAN WAS DIRECTOR OF CORP PLUS
  OTHER INFLUENTIAL PERSONS IN  80  WACKENHUT WORKED CLOSELY WITH
  S. CALIFORNIA'S CABAZON INDIANS AND THEIR TRIBAL ADMINISTRATOR
  JOHN PHILIP NICHOLS. NICHOLS PER NEWS ARTICLE, BOASTED RE ATTEMPTED
  ASSASSINATION CASTRO AND SUCCESSFUL ASSASSINATION OF SALVADOR ALLENDE.
  WACKENHUT/CABAZON CONNECTION OF PARTICULAR INTEREST TO D. CASOLARO
  WHO DIED IN W.VIRGINIA IN  91  HE ALSO INVESTIGATING OCTOBER SURPRISE
  AND INSLAW. MICHAEL RICONOSCIUTO - A WEAPONS-SYSTEM DESIGNER AND
  SOFTWARE SPECIALIST - WAS DIR OF A RESEARCH PROJECT OF WACKENHUT/CABAZON
  JOINT VENTURE. IN EARLY 80s AFFIDAVIT SAID HE MODIFIED A STOLEN
  PROMIS SOFTWARE FOR FOREIGN SALES. OTHER INFO ON WACKENHUT. ITT
  9/24/81 4-5

  FOR EIGHT YEARS INSLAW BATTLING JUSTICE DEPT FOR POSSESSION OF
  PROMIS, A SOFT-WARE PROGRAM DEVELOPED BY COMPANY OWNER BILL HAMILTON.
  IN 91  INSLAW WENT PUBLIC AND ALLEGED REAGAN JUSTICE DEPT, AFTER IT
  HAD STOLEN PROMIS, TURNED IT OVER TO EARL BRIAN. INSLAW ALLEGES
  SOFTWARE GIVEN BRIAN AS PAYBACK FOR BRIAN'S HELP IN ARRANGING ARMS-FOR-
HOSTAGE DEAL WITH IRAN IN 1980 (OCTOBER SURPRISE). PER HAMILTON, BRIAN, WHO
RUNS UPI, ALLEGEDLY MARKETED PROMIS TO INTEL AGENCIES OF ISRAEL, JORDAN, IRAQ,
CANADA, SOUTH KOREA, LIBYA, ENGLAND, GERMANY, FRANCE, AUSTRALIA, THAILAND,
JAPAN, CHILE, GUATEMALA, AND BRAZIL. PER INSLAW, ONCE SOFTWARE USED BY FOREIGN
INTEL SERVICES, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (NSA) ABLE INFILTRATE COMPUTERIZED
INTEL FILES THOSE COUNTRIES. MODIFICATIONS TO PROMIS ALLEGEDLY DONE BY
WACKENHUT CORP. OF CORAL GABLES, FL. HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE INVESTIGATING
SCANDAL SINCE 89. ATTORNEY GENERAL THORNBURG, UNDER SUPOENA, RELEASED
INSLAW-RELATED FILES - BUT 15 TO 20 FILES MISSING. ITT 9/10/91 4-5

  STORY OF DANNY CASOLARO - WHO HAD BEEN SORTING THRU THE S&L DEBACLE,
  BCCI, IRAN-CONTRA, CONTRA-CONNECTED WACKENHUT CORP., WACKENHUT-CONNECTED
  INSLAW CASE AND INSLAW-CONNECTED "OCTOBER SURPRISE." ITT 9/10/91
  4-5

LIAISON

  INSLAW PRES BILL HAMILTON SAYS HE HAS INFO THAT PROMIS ILLEGALLY
  SOLD TO SOUTH KOREA, LIBYA, JORDAN, GREAT BRITAIN (ENGLAND), GERMANY,
  FRANCE, AUSTRALIA, THAILAND, JAPAN, CHILE, GUATEMALA, BRAZIL, AND
  CANADA. CANADIAN COMPANY, COMMUNICATIONS CANADA - THE CANADIAN
  WORKPLACE AUTOMATION RESEARCH CENTER (CWARC) WROTE INSLAW A LETTER.
  ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE ARE OPERATING PROMIS IN 900 LOCATIONS.
  MICHAEL RICONOSCIUTO SWORE IN AN AFFIDAVIT THAT WHEN HE DIRECTOR
  OF WACKENHUT CORP OF CORAL GABLES, FL ONE OF HIS JOBS TO ADAPT
  PROMIS SOFTWARE. PETER VIDENIEKS AND EARL W. BRIAN WERE FREQUENT
  VISITORS TO WACKENHUT. RICONOSCIUTO SAID HE TO MODIFY PROMIS FOR
  IMPLEMENTATION IN LAW ENFORCEMENT AND INTEL AGENCIES WORLDWIDE.
  AFTER TESTIFYING BEFORE HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE INVESTIGATORS,
  RICONOSCIUTO ARRESTED AND CHARGED WITH SELLING MORE THAN 4 GRAMS
  OF POTENT SPEED. ITT 6/11/91 11-13

END OF FILE ---------------------------
---------------------------------------------------

If you notice the name INMAN in the above, that is Adm. Bobby Inman recently
mentioned in Tim Good's book "Alien Liason" and the subject of the January
1992 rebuttal of Bob Oechsler in the MUFON Journel.

Best:

Don Ecker
Director Research
UFO Magazine

--- FD 1.99c
 * Origin: ParaNet Alpha-Delta The Data Base (9:1012/3.0)

===End of included article=================================================

Also here's something from last year on the ultra secret Bilderberg
meeting..what motivations and policies do you think that THEY
follow?

-----Begin included text---------------------------------------------------


From: campe@thor.uucp (Gary Campe ext )
Newsgroups: alt.activism,talk.politics.misc,misc.headlines
Subject: BILDERBERG ANNUAL MEETING SCHEDULED
Message-ID: <13155@fpssun>
Date: 22 Apr 91 17:56:38 GMT
References: The Spotlight
Sender: daemon@fpssun
Organization: FPS Computing, Beaverton, Oregon
Lines: 23


Ad as it appears in The Spotlight dated April 22, 1991:

JUNE 7-9 - Bilderberg group meets secretly at Baden-Baden, Germany.

Members will fly into Frankfurt, Germany or Stasbourg, France to be taken
in government helicopters to a heavily guarded hotel near Baden-Baden, site
of secret meeting of world's elite.  Agenda items include exploiting Middle
East oil and progress toward world government.  For information, call
David Rocefeller at (914) 631-1634 or his personal valet, Dr. Henry 
Kissinger at (212) 759-7919.

                            ******************

Have any of you been invited?



--
     RE-ELECT        "Government is not reason, it is not eloquence - it  
      NO-ONE!        is force.  Like fire, it is a dangerous servant and
    ==========       a fearful master" -- George Washington.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed are mine alone and not that of my employer.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


From: campe@thor.uucp (Gary Campe ext )
Newsgroups: misc.headlines,talk.politics.misc,alt.conspiracy
Subject: Bilderberg Annual Meeting - What was said
Message-ID: <14096@fpssun>
Date: 28 Jun 91 17:48:41 GMT
Sender: daemon@fps.com
Followup-To: misc.headlines
Distribution: usa
Organization: FPS Computing, Beaverton, Oregon
Lines: 42

This information was reported in the June 24, 1991 issue of "THE SPOTLIGHT".

This is not the entire article, only the highlights.  If you would like to
read this article in its entirety please refer to the above publication.

                        ----------------------------

The word out of the Bilderberg annual meeting is that there will be another
war within the next five years.

It was repeatedly stated at the Bilderberg meeting that there will be 
"other Saddams" in the years ahead who must be dealt with swiftly and 
efficiently.

The Bilderberg group plans a global army at the disposal of the United 
Nations.  It is their hope that the U.N. will become the world government
by the year 2000.

"A U.N. army must be able to act immediately, anywhere in the world, without
delays involved in each country making its own decision whether to
participate, based on parochial considerations," said Henry Kissinger.

If Americans can be persuaded to surrender warmaking decisions to the U.N.,
"parochial nationalism" in Briton, France and elsewhere will disappear,
Bilderberg speakers said.

"The Persian Gulf venture has advanced the cause by years" one speaker said.


                        ----------------------------

So there you have it, the "One Worlders" are still alive and well.

Garry

--
     RE-ELECT        "Government is not reason, it is not eloquence - it  
      NO-ONE!        is force.  Like fire, it is a dangerous servant and
    ==========       a fearful master" -- George Washington.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed are mine alone and not that of my employer.


---End included text---------------------------------------------------------


The following is on the historical perspective of just the Rockefeller
and Rothschild connections and in no way attempts to cover every
aspect, but will suffice to give you a basis on which to understand
how pervasive the Web of influence is and that it is a good deal MORE
than "merely a conspiracy". Just WHO makes up the ILLEGAL SHADOW
GOVERMNENT,YOUR HIDDEN MASTERS?

I ask no one to accept any of this at face value, and would heartily
encourage you to perform your own investigation. To that end,I've
provided an extensive list of reading materials at the end of this
text. 
 
And lastly, I would include a very lucid assessment of our situation
by John DiNardo, which in my opinion, is absolutely correct. There have
been MANY people who are posting such as John, Dave Radcliffe, Rich
Winkel and others who have been showing you just *WHO* the CANCER IS.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    If the usurpers of our freedom, the plunderers of our life's earnings,
    the despoilers of our planet Earth, the deluders of our TV-zombified
    society, the desecrators of our Constitution can crush the Christic 
    Institute -- than what refuge is left for the few remaining 
    Christic-like organizations to shelter THEM from this Frankenstein
    Monster government?  What refuge is left for you and me, and for our
    children who will necessarily find themselves forced to riot and
    spill their blood in the streets during the twenty-first century? 
    It always degenerates to that, you know.

    We Americans are a lazy, short-sighted bunch. We realize that if we
    don't earn a living, we will be impoverished. We realize that if we
    don't brush our teeth, our teeth will rot out of our mouths. We 
    realize that if we don't service our cars, they will fail to operate.
    Yet, we don't realize -- or we're too lazy to admit -- that if we
    don't supervise and participate in our system of government to ensure
    that our Constitution is protected from the greedy, power-mad 
    neurotics whose ambitions drive them to seize the reins of power 
    and wealth vested in our Federal Government, then our libertarian 
    foundations will crumble beneath us, leaving us to fall into the
    pit of subjugation that the corporate rulers have prepared for us.

    As we witness our free-fall into the pit, we finally understand
    that the law is slipping out of our hands; that we and our children
    will have to resort to meeting in dark rooms and plotting to recover
    our Constitutional freedoms which the usurpers have seized through
    television, that great national Svengali -- that opiate of the masses 
    which they have so cleverly employed to sedate, delude and distract us
    while quietly cuffing our ankles and wrists. How could we be so stupid
    as to surrender our minds to Big Brother, never suspecting that 
    whenever someone offers you free entertainment, day after day and
    year after year, it's got to be costing you.  

    Why shouldn't we be as vulnerable to totalitarianism as are
    the peoples of most other societies around the world. More so, 
    considering the fact that totalitarianism originates from within the 
    military elite. And whose nation has the most savagely powerful  
    military force on the planet?  What's worse is that it's not just the
    military that's militating against our Constitutional freedoms.
    It's the military-industrial complex. President Eisenhower left office
    a third of a century ago by warning us that the military-industrial
    complex is the greatest threat to our freedom. That was as much of
    a warning as he dared give, lest he meet the doom of his valiant 
    successor who tried to actually BE the President of the United States.

    How knowledgeable was the General of the Army of the Second World War,
    Dwight Eisenhower, in his fear of the military-industrial complex?
    As knowledgeable as President Kennedy is dead!

    So you see, there really isn't much time left. If we prove to be too
    lazy now to unite behind Constitutional upholders such as the
    Christic Institute -- then our children in the twenty-first century
    will NOT be too frightened to stand up against the bullets of the
    Wackenhut Security Corporation of Coral Gables, Florida. Because
    when the oppression becomes intolerable, you, I and anyone would 
    stand up to bullets, rather than go on living in unbearable agony.
    Ask the Palestinian people who stand up to bullets every day --
    or the Rumanian people, or the Guatemalan people, or the Filipino 
    people, or the Chinese people, or the Iranian people, or the
    Tibetan people, or the Timorese people.

    If we prove to be too lazy now, OUR generation may even see the day
    when citizens will speak softly and listen intently for the footsteps
    of the Gestapo who may finally come to kick down our front door and
    arrest us for plotting to regain the Constitutional freedoms 
    that were once our heritage.

            John DiNardo

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Excerpted from the book, "Rape of The Constitution; Death of Freedom" by 
  Gyeorgos C. Hatonn . 

  *** The Rockefeller Syndicate ***

  ========================================================================

  Many American conservatives believe as a matter of faith that the 
  Rockefellers and the Council on Foreign Relations exercise absolute 
  control over the government and the people of the U.S.  This thesis can 
  be accepted as a working formula if one remains conscious of the larger 
  issues.  Two writers for whom the present writer (E.M) has great respect, 
  Dr. Emanuel Josephson and Morris Bealle, insisted on focusing on the 
  Rockefellers and excluding all other aspects of the World Order. This 
  severely limited the effect of their otherwise groundbreaking work on the 
  Medical Monopoly. This writer advanced a contrary view in "The World 
  Order," fixing upon the Rothschild monetary power, which reached a point 
  of world control by 1885, and its London policy group, the Royal 
  Institute of International Affairs, as the policy makers for what has 
  essentially been, since 1900, a re-established colonial government, 
  functions primarily through the Council on Foreign Relations, but only as 
  the subsidiary of RIIA and through the Rockefeller Foundation, which 
  controls government functions, the educational establishments, the media, 
  the religions and the state legislatures.  

  It is true that the American colonials have "free elections," in which 
  they have the absolute right to vote for one of two opposing candidates, 
  both of whom have been handpicked and financed by the Rockefeller 
  syndicate.  This touching evidence of "democracy" serves to convince most 
  Americans that you are indeed a free people.  You even have a cracked 
  Liberty Bell in Philadelphia to prove it.  American youths have been free 
  since 1900 to be marched off to die in Hegelian wars in which both 
  combatants received their instructions from the World Order. You are free 
  to invest in a stock market in which the daily quantity,price and value 
  of the monetary unit is manipulated and controlled by a Federal Reserve 
  System which is answerable only to the Bank of England. It has maintained 
  its vaunted "independence" from your government control, but this is the 
  only independence it has ever had.  

  The realization that you do indeed live under the dictates of the 
  "Rockefeller Syndicate" can well be the starting point of the long road 
  back of a genuine struggle for American independence.  In exposing "the 
  Rockefellers" as agents of a foreign power, which is not merely a foreign 
  power, but a genuine world government, you must realize that this is not 
  merely a group dedicated to making money, but a group which is committed 
  to maintaining the power of a colonial form of government over the 
  American people.  Thus the ancient calumny of John D. Rockefeller as a 
  man obsessed by greed (a category in which he has plenty of company) 
  obscures the fact that from the day the Rothschilds began to finance his 
  march towards a total oil monopoly in the United States from their 
  coffers at the National City Bank of Cleveland, Rockefeller was never an 
  independent power, nor does any department of the Rockefeller Syndicate 
  operate as an independent power.  You know that the Cosa Nostra, or 
  Mafia, with which the Syndicate is closely allied, has somewhat 
  autonomous power in the regions which have been assigned to that 
  particular "family" by the national directors, but this always implies 
  that that family remains under total control and answerable for 
  everything which occurs in its territory.  

  Similarly, the Rockefeller Syndicate operates under clearly defined 
  spheres of influence.  The "charitable" organizations, the business 
  companies and the policy groups, always meld into a working operation, 
  nor can any department of the Syndicate strike out on its own or 
  formulate an independent policy, no matter what may be its 
  justification.  

  The Rockefeller Syndicate operates under the control of the world 
  financial structure, which means that on any given day, all of its assets 
  could be rendered close to worthless by adroit financial manipulation.  
  This is the final control, which ensures that no one can quit the 
  organization.  Not only would he be stripped of all assets, but he would 
  be under contract for immediate assassination.  The Department of Justice 
  is well aware that the only "terrorists" operating in the United States 
  are the agents of the World Order, but they prudently avoid any mention 
  of this fact.  

  The world financial structure, far from being an unknown or hidden 
  organization, is actually well known and well defined.  It consists of 
  the major Swiss Banks; the survivors of the old Venetian-Genoese banking 
  axis; the Big Five of the world grain trade; the British combine, 
  centered in the Bank of England and its chartered merchant banks, 
  functioning through the Rothschilds and the Oppenheimers and having 
  absolute control over their Canadian colony through the Royal Bank of 
  Canada and the Bank of Montreal, their Canadian lieutenants being the 
  Bronfmans, Belzbergs, Reichmanns and other financial operators; and the 
  colonial banking structure in the U.S., controlled by the Bank of England 
  through the Federal Reserve System; the Boston Brahmin families who made 
  their fortunes in the opium trade, including the Delanos and others and 
  the Rockefeller Bank, Chase Manhattan Bank, American Express, the present 
  form of the old Rothschild representatives in the U.S., which includes 
  Kuhn,Loeb Company and Lehman Brothers.  

  It is notable that the Rockefeller Syndicate is far down on the list of 
  the worlds financial structure.  Why then is it of such importance?  
  Although it is not the crucial factor in financial decision in the 
  Western Hemisphere, it is the actual working control mechanism of the 
  American colony.  The Rockefeller family themselves,like the 
  Morgans,Schiffs and Warburgs, have faded into insignificance, but the 
  mechanism created in their name roars along at full power,still 
  maintaining all of the functions for which it was organized.  Since he 
  set up the Trilateral Commission, David Rockefeller has functioned as a 
  sort of international courier for the World Order, principally concerned 
  with delivering working instructions to the Communist bloc,either 
  directly, in New York or by traveling to the area.  Laurence Rockefeller 
  is active in the operation of the Medical Monopoly, but his principal 
  interests are in operating various vacation spas in tropical areas.  They 
  are the two survivors of the "Fortunate Five," the five sons of John D. 
  Rockefeller, Jr. and Abby Aldrich. John D. Rockefeller, Jr. died in an 
  institution in Tucson,Arizona and was hastily cremated.  John D. 
  Rockefeller III died in a mysterious accident on a New York Parkway near 
  his home.  Nelson Rockefeller, named after his grandfather, died in the 
  arms of a TV journalist.  It was later revealed that he had also been in 
  the arms of another TV journalist at the same time; the death was hushed 
  up for many hours.  It was generally believed that he ran afoul of his 
  Columbian drug connection, the disagreement hardly being trivial; it 
  involved several billion dollars in drug profits which had not been 
  properly apportioned.  Winthrop Rockefeller died an alcoholic in the arms 
  of his black boy friend.  He had been interviewed on television by Harry 
  Reasoner to explain his hasty move from New York to Arkansas. Winthrop 
  learned that his black boy friend, an Army sergeant who apparently taught 
  him the mysteries of drill,refused to live in New York. To celebrate this 
  alliance, Winthrop Rockefeller gave magnificiently to Negro 
  causes,including the Urban League building on East 48th Street in New 
  York. A plaque on the second floor notes that it was his gift; it might 
  well have stated "From Hadrian to his Antinous."  

  We do not wish to imply that the Rockefellers no longer have influence, 
  but that the major policy dictates of the Rockefeller Syndicate are 
  handed down by other caps, of whom they continue to be a visible force.  
  Through the person of David Rockefeller, the family is sometimes called 
  "the first family of the Soviet Union." Only he and Dr. Armand Hammer, 
  the moving force behind USTEC, have permanent permission to land their 
  private planes at the Moscow Airport. Others would suffer the fate of KAL 
  007. David Rockefeller's most significant trip to the Soviet Union may 
  have been the fateful day when he landed in Moscow, having been told to 
  inform Khrushchev that he was "through". The Russians are very health 
  conscious, and a scientist had sent information to Khrushchev that the 
  use of chemical fertilizers in the Soviet Union presented a threat to the 
  people.  Khrushchev then announced a major change in the Soviet farm 
  policy, centering around a reduction in the use of chemicals.  This was 
  upsetting to the head of the world's Chemical Fertilizer trust, David 
  Rockefeller, and he responded with a terse one word command, "Out".  

  Both the Rockefeller family fortune and the considerable portion set 
  aside in the foundations of the Rockefeller Syndicate are effectively 
  insulated against any type of government control.  FORTUNE magazine noted 
  August ,1986, that John D. Rockefeller,Jr.  had created trusts in 1934 
  which now amounted to some $2.3 billion; another 200 million had been set 
  aside for the Abby Rockefeller branch.  The five sons had trusts which in 
  1986 amounted to $2.1 billion.  These trusts had originally amounted to 
  only $50 million each,showing the increase in their assets as well as 
  inflation during the ensuing half century.  FORTUNE estimated the 1986 
  total Rockefeller wealth as $3.5 billion of which $900 million was in 
  securities and real estate.  They owned 45% of the Time Life 
  Building; Nelson Rockefeller's International Basic Economy Corporation had 
  been sold to a British company in 1980. For years, the Rockefeller family 
  had deliberately kept the rents low in its major holding, Rockefeller 
  Center, a $1.6 billion investment yielding an annual return of 1% . This 
  was a convenient manuever for tax purposes, and a good one at that.  

  Much of the Rockefeller wealth might be attributed to old John D.'s 
  rapacity and ruthlessness; its origins are indubitably based in his 
  initial financing from the National City Bank of Cleveland, which was 
  identified in Congressional reports as one of the three Rothschild banks 
  in the United States and by his later acceptance of the guidance of Jacob 
  Schiff of Kuhn,Loeb Company, who had been born in the Rothschild house in 
  Franfort and was now the principal Rothschild representive (but unknown 
  as such to the public) in the United States.  

  With the seed money from the National City Bank in Cleveland, old John D. 
  Rockefeller soon laid claim to the title of the "most ruthless American". 
  It is more than likely that it was this quality which persuaded the 
  Rothschilds to back him.  Rockefeller realized early in the game that the 
  oil refinery business, which could offer great profits in a short time, 
  also was at the mercy of uncontrolled competition.  His solution was a 
  simple one--crush all competition.  The famous Rockefeller dedication to 
  total monopoly was simply a business decision.  Rockefeller embarked on a 
  campaign of coercing all competing oil refineries out of business.  He 
  attacked on a number of fronts, which is also a lesson to all would be 
  entrepreneurs.  First, he would send a minion, not known to be working for 
  Rockefeller, with an offer to buy the competing refinery for a low 
  price,but offering cash.  If the offer was refused, the competitor would 
  then come under attack from a competing refinery which greatly undercut 
  his price.  He might also suffer a sudden strike at his refinery,which 
  would force him to shut down.  Control of labor through unions has always 
  been a basic Rockefeller technique.  Like the Soviet Union, they seldom 
  have labor trouble.  If these techniques failed, Rockefeller would then 
  be saddened by a reluctant decision to use violence; beating the rival 
  workers as they went to and from their jobs, or burning or blowing up the 
  competing refinery.  

  These techniques convinced the Rothschilds that they had found their 
  man.They sent their personal representative,Jacob Schiff, to Cleveland to 
  help Rockefeller plan further expansion.  At this time,the Rothschilds 
  controlled 95% of all railroad mileage in the United States,through the 
  J.P. Morgan Company and Kuhn Loeb Company,according to official 
  Department of Commerce figures for the year 1895. J.P. Morgan mentions in 
  his "Who's Who" listing that he controlled 50,000 miles of U.S. 
  railways.  Schiff worked out an elaborate rebate deal for 
  Rockefeller,through a dummy corporation,South Improvement Company. These 
  rebates ensured that no other oil company could survive in competition 
  with the Rockefeller firm.  The scheme was later exposed,but by that time 
  Rockefeller had achieved a virtual monopoly of the oil business in the 
  U.S. The daughter of one of his victims, Ida Tarbell,whose father was 
  ruined by Rockefeller's criminal operations, wrote the first major expose 
  of the Standard Oil Trust. She was promptly denounced as a "muckracker" 
  by the poseur, Theodore Roosevelt, who claimed to be a "trustbuster." In 
  fact, he ensured the dominance of the Standard Oil Trust and other giant 
  trusts.  

  During the next half century, John D. Rockefeller was routinely 
  caricatured by socialist propagandists as the epitome of the ruthless 
  capitalist.  At the same time, he was the principal financier of the 
  world Communist movement, through a firm called American International 
  Company. Despite the fact that the House of Rothschild had already 
  achieved world control,the sound and the fury was directed exclusively 
  against its two principal representatives,John D. Rockefeller and J.P. 
  Morgan.  One of the few revelations of the actual state of affairs 
  appeared in TRUTH magazine,Dec 16,1912, which pointed out that "Mr. 
  Schiff is head of the great private banking house of Kuhn, Loeb Company 
  (I knew some of you bright readers would finally pick up that these names 
  are all attached to the greatest pharmaceutical firms in the world--even 
  into your very vitamin supplement business!), which represents the 
  Rothschild interests on your side of the Atlantic. He is described as a 
  financial strategist and has been for years the financial minister of the 
  great impersonal power known as Standard Oil."  Note that the name of 
  Rockefeller was not mentioned in the quote.  

  Because of these concealed factors,it was a relatively simple matter for 
  the American public to accept the "fact" that the Rockefellers were the 
  preeminent power in your country.  This myth was actually clothed in the 
  apparel of power,the Rockefeller Oil Trust becoming the 
  "military-industrial complex" which assumed political control of the 
  nation; the Rockefeller Medical Monopoly attained control of the health 
  care of the nation, and the Rockefeller Foundation, a web of affiliated 
  tax emempt creations, effectively controlled the religious and 
  educational life of the nation.  The myth succeeded in its goal of 
  camouflaging the hidden rulers, the Rothschilds.  

  After Eustis Mullins and a few others, had been exposing this charade for 
  some twenty-five years a new myth began to be noised about in American 
  conservative circles, effectively propagated by active double agents.  
  This myth found a host of eager believers,because it heralded a growing 
  crack in the monolithic power which had been oppressing all the peoples 
  of the world.  This "new" revelation was that a struggle to the death for 
  world power had developed between the Rockefellers and the Rothschilds. 
  According to this startling development, one faction or the other, 
  depending on which agent you were listening to, had gained control of the 
  Soviet Union and would use its power as the basis for achieving the 
  overthrow of the other faction.  The sudden death of several members of 
  the Rockefeller family was cited as "proof" that such a struggle was 
  taking place, although no Rothschild is known to have succumbed during 
  this "war." This ignored the general understanding that Nelson 
  Rockefeller had been "eliminated" as the result of losing deposit slips 
  for several billion dollars of drugs from the Columbian cartel, or that 
  the other Rockefeller deaths showed no trace of a "Rothschild 
  connection."  

  Having maintained extensive files on this situation for several decades, 
  the writer (E.M.),could not believe anyone could be so misinformed as to 
  think that "the Rockefellers" were now trying to seize power from the 
  Rothschilds, at a time when the influence of members of the Rockefeller 
  family was already in great decline, their family finances being handled 
  by John J. McCloy, and other faithful retainers;none of the retainers 
  would have been willing to engage in a genuine power struggle, as they 
  were faceless managers who lived only for their weekly paycheck.  They 
  had no ambitions of their own.  Nevertheless, many hopeful Americans 
  grasped at the will-o-the-wisp notion the Rockefellers were now "good 
  Americans" who were willing to risk all to overthrow the Rothschilds. 
  Amazingly enough, this pernicious story persisted for almost a decade 
  before being relegated to the curiosities of history.  

  Like J.P. Morgan, who had begun his commercial career by selling the U.S. 
  Army some defective guns, the famous Hall carbine affair, John D. 
  Rockefeller also was a war profiteer during the Civil War;he sold 
  unstamped Harkness liquor to Federal troops at a high profit, gaining the 
  initial capital to embark on his drive for monopoly.  His interest in the 
  oil business was a natural one; his father,William Rockefeller had been 
  "in oil" for years.  William Rockefeller had become an oil entrepreneur 
  after salt wells at Tarentum, near Pittsburgh, were discovered in 1842 to 
  be flowing with oil.  The owners of the wells,Samuel L. Kier, began to 
  bottle the oil and sell it for medicinal purposes.  One of his earliest 
  wholesalers was William Rockefeller. The "medicine" was originally 
  labelled "Kier's Magic Oil". Rockefeller printed his own labels, using 
  "Rock Oil" or "Seneca Oil", Seneca being the name of a well known Indian 
  Tribe. Rockefeller achieved his greatest notoriety and his greatest 
  profits by advertising himself as "William Rockefeller, the Celebrated 
  Cancer Specialist".  It is understandable that his grandsons would become 
  the controlling power behind the scenes of the world's most famous cancer 
  treatment center and would direct government funds and charitable 
  contributions to those areas which only benefit the Medical Monopoly. 
  William Rockefeller spared no claim in his flamboyant career.  He 
  guaranteed "All Cases of Cancer Cured Unless They Are Too Far Gone". Such 
  were the healing powers that he attributed to his magic cancer cure that 
  he was able to retail it for $25 a bottle, a sum then equivalent to two 
  month's wages.  The "cure" consisted of a few well known diuretics, which 
  had been diluted by water.  This carnival medicine show barker could 
  hardly have envisioned that his descendants would control the greatest 
  and the most profitable Medical Monopoly in recorded history.  

  As an itinerant "carnie", a traveling carnival peddler, William 
  Rockefeller had chosen a career which interfered with developing a stable 
  family life.  His son, John, rarely saw him, a circumstance which has 
  inspired some psychological analysts to conjecture that the absence of a 
  father figure or parental love may have contributed to John D. 
  Rockefeller's subsequent development as a money mad tyrant who plotted to 
  maim, poison and kill millions of his fellow Americans during almost a 
  century of his monopolistic operations and whose influence, reaching up 
  from the grave, remains the most dire and malignant presence in American 
  life.  This may have been a contributing factor--however, it is also 
  possible that he was totally evil.  It is hardly arguable that he is 
  probably one of the most Satanic figures in American history.  Evil being 
  defined as anything that moves the spiritual aspect of beingness away 
  from God as influenced through another.  

  It has long been a truism that you can find a horse thief or two in any 
  prominent American family.  In the Rockefeller family, it was more than 
  true in the case of William who seemed to have faithfully followed the 
  precepts of the Will of Canaan throughout his career, "love robbery, love 
  lechery".  He fled from a number of indictments for horse stealing and 
  you know how serious that is, finally disappearing altogether as William 
  and Rockefeller and magically re-emerging as a Dr. William Levingston of 
  Philadelphia, a name which he retained for the rest of his life.  An 
  investigative reporter at Joseph Pulitzer's New York World received a tip 
  that was followed up.  The World then disclosed that William Avery 
  Rockefeller had died May 11, 1906 in Freeport, Illinois, where he was 
  interred in an unmarked grave as Dr. William Levingston.  

  William Rockefeller's vocation as a medicine man greatly facilitated his 
  preferred profession of horse thief.  As one who planned to be in the 
  next county by morning, it was a simple matter to tie a handsome stallion 
  to the back of his wagon and head for the open road.  It also played a 
  large part in his vocation as a woman-chaser; he was described as being 
  "woman-mad".  

  On June 28,1849, he was indicted for raping a hired girl in Cayuga,New 
  York; he later was found to be residing in Oswego, New York and was 
  forced once again to decamp for parts unknown.  He had no difficulty in 
  financing his woman-chasing interests from the sale of his miraculous 
  cancer cure and from another product, his "Wonder Working Liniment", 
  which he offered at only two dollars a bottle.  It consisted of crude 
  petroleum from which the lighter oils had been boiled away, leaving a 
  heavy solution of paraffin,lube oil and tar, which comprised the 
  "liniment". William Rockefeller's original miracle oil survived until 
  quite recently as a concoction called Nujol, consisting principally of 
  petroleum and peddled as a laxative.  It was well known that Nujol was 
  merely an advertising sobriquet meaning "new oil", as opposed apparently, 
  to "old oil".  Sold as an antidote to constipation, it robbed the body of 
  fat-soluble vitamins, it being a well-established medical fact that 
  mineral oil coated the intestine and prevented the absorption of many 
  needed vitamins and other nutritional needs.  Its makers added carotine 
  as a sop to the health-conscious, but it was hardly worth the bother.  
  Nujol was manufactured by a subsidiary of Standard Oil of New Jersey, 
  called Stanco, whose only other product, manufactured on the same 
  premises, was the famous insecticide, Flit.  

  Nujol was hawked from the Senate Office Building in Washington for years 
  during a more liberal interpretation of "conflict of interest".  In this 
  case, it was hardly a conflict of interest, because the august 
  peddler,Senator Royal S. Copeland, never had any interests other than 
  serving the Rockefellers.  He was a physician whom Rockefeller had 
  appointed as head of the New York State Department of Health and later 
  financed his campaign for the Senate.  Copeland's frank display of 
  commercialism amazed even the most blase' Washington reporters.  

  He devoted his Senate career to a daily program advertising Nujol. A 
  microphone was set up in his Senate office each morning, the first order 
  of business being the Nujol program, for which he was paid $75,000 a 
  year, an enormous salary in the 1930's and more than the salary of the 
  President of the United States. Senator Copeland's exploits earned him a 
  number of nicknames on Capital Hill. He was often called the Senator from 
  the American Medical Association, because of his enthusiastic backing for 
  any program launched by the AMA and Morris Fishbein. More realistically, 
  he was usually referred to as "the Senator from Standard Oil". He could 
  be counted on to promote any legislation devised for the greater profit 
  of the Rockefeller monopoly.  During congressional debate on the Food and 
  Drug Act in 1938, he came under criticism from Congresswoman Leonor 
  Sullivan, who charged that Senator Copeland, a physician who handled the 
  bill on the Senate floor, frankly acknowledged during the debate that 
  soap was exempted from the law because the soap manufacturers, who were 
  the nation's largest advertisers, would otherwise join with other big 
  industries to fight the bill.  Congresswoman Sullivan complained that, 
  "Soap was officially declared in the law not to be a cosmetic.  The hair 
  dye manufacturers were given a license to market known dangerous 
  products, just so long as they placed a special warning on the label - 
  but what woman in a beauty parlor ever sees the label on the bulk 
  container in which hair dye is shipped?"  

  Just as the elder Rockefeller had spent his life in the pursuit of his 
  personal obsession, women, so his son John was equally obsessed, being 
  money-mad instead of woman-mad, totally committed to the pursuit of 
  ever-increasing wealth and power.  However, the principal accomplishments 
  of the Rockefeller drive for power, the rebate scheme for monopoly, the 
  chartering of the foundations to gain power over American citizens,the 
  creation of the central bank, the Federal Reserve System, the backing of 
  the World Communist Revolution and the creation of the Medical Monoply, 
  all came from the Rothschilds or from their European employees.  

  We cannot find in the records of John D. Rockefeller that he originated 
  any of these programs.  The concept of the tax exempt charitable 
  foundation originated with the Rothschild minion, George Peabody, in 
  1865. The Peabody Educational Foundation later became the Rockefeller 
  Foundation and many of you should recall that item.  Not that you might 
  have been around then but it continues to inadvertently be referred to as 
  such.  

  It is unlikely that even the diabolical mind of John D. Rockefeller could 
  have conceived of this devious twist.  A social historian has described 
  the major development of the late nineteenth century, when charitable 
  foundations and world Communism became important movements, as one of the 
  more interesting facets of history, perhaps equivalent to the discovery 
  of the wheel or fire.  This new discovery was the concept developed by 
  the rats, who after all have rather highly developed intelligences, that 
  they could trap people by baiting traps with little bits of cheese.  The 
  history of mankind since then has been the rats catching humans in their 
  traps.  Socialism -- indeed, any government program -- is simply the rat 
  baiting the trap with a smidgeon of cheese and catching himself a human.  

  Congressman Wright Patman, chairman of the House Banking and Currency 
  Committee, noted from the floor of Congress that the establishment of the 
  Rockefeller Foundation effectively insulated Standard Oil from 
  competition.  The controlling stock had been removed from market 
  manipulation or possible buyouts by competitors.  It also relieved 
  Standard Oil from most taxation, which then placed a tremendous added 
  burden on individual American taxpayers.  Although a Rockefeller relative 
  by marriage, Senator Nelson Aldrich, Republican majority leader in the 
  Senate, had pushed the General Education Board charter through Congress, 
  the Rockefeller Foundation charter proved to be more difficult.  
  Widespread criticism of Rockefeller's monopolistic practices was heard, 
  and his effort to insulate his profits from taxation or takeover was seen 
  for what it was.  The charter was finally pushed through in 1913 (the 
  significant Masonic numeral 13 -- 1913 was also the year of the 
  progressive income tax and of the enactment of the Federal Reserve Act). 
  Senator Robert F. Wagner of New York, another Senator from Standard Oil 
  (there were quite a few), ramrodded the Congressional approval of the 
  charter.  The charter was then signed by John D. Rockefeller, John D. 
  Rockefeller, Jr., Henry Pratt Judson, president of the Rockefeller 
  established University of Chicago,Simon Flexner, director of the 
  Rockefeller Institute, Starr Jameson, described in "Who's Who" as 
  "personal counsel to John D. Rockefeller in his benevolences", and 
  Charles W. Eliot, president of Harvard University.  

  The Rockefeller Oil Monopoly is now 127 years old, yet in 1911, the 
  Supreme Court, bowing to public outrage, had ruled that it had to be 
  broken up.  The resulting companies proved to be no problem for the 
  Rockefeller interests.  The family retained a two per cent holding in 
  each of the "new" companies, while the Rockefeller foundations took a 
  three per cent holding in each company.  This gave them a five per cent 
  stock interest in each company; a one per cent holding in a corporation 
  is usually sufficient to maintain working control.  

  The involvement of the Rockefellers in promoting the World Communist 
  Revolution also developed from their business interests.  There was never 
  any commitment to the Marxist ideology; like anything else, it was there 
  to be used.  At the turn of the century, Standard Oil was competing 
  fiercely with Royal Dutch Shell for control of the lucrative European 
  market.  Congressional testimony revealed that Rockefeller had sent large 
  sums of money to Lenin and Trotsky to instigate the Communist Revolution 
  in 1905. His banker, Jacob Schiff had previously financed the Japanese in 
  their war against Russia and had sent a personal emissary, George Kennan 
  to Russia to spend some twenty years in promoting revolutionary activity 
  against the Czar.  

  When the 1905 revolution failed, Lenin was placed "in storage" in 
  Switzerland until 1907. Trotsky was brought to the U.S., where he lived 
  rent free on the Standard Oil property at Bayonne,New Jersey, its tank 
  field.  When the Czar abdicated, Trotsky was placed on a ship with three 
  hundred Communist revolutionaries from the Lower East Side of New York. 
  Rockefeller obtained a special passport for Trotsky from Woodrow Wilson 
  and sent Lincoln Steffens with him to make sure he was returned safely to 
  Russia. For traveling expenses, Rockefeller placed a purse containing 
  $10,000 in Trotsky's pocket.  

  On April 13,1917, when the ship stopped in Halifax, Canadian Secret 
  Service officers immediately arrested Trotsky and interred him in Nova 
  Scotia. The case became an international cause celebre, as leading 
  government officials from several nations frantically demanded Trotsky's 
  release.  The Secret Service had been tipped off that Trotsky was on his 
  way to take Russia out of the war, freeing more German armies to attack 
  Canadian troups on the Western Front.  

  Prime Minister Lloyd George hurriedly cabled orders from London to the 
  Canadian Secret Service to free Trotsky at once - they ignored him.  
  Trotsky was finally freed by the intervention of one of Rockefeller's 
  most faithful stooges, Canadian Minister Mackenzie King, who had long 
  been a "labor specialist" for the Rockefellers. King personally obtained 
  Trotsky's release and sent him on his way as the emissary of the 
  Rockefellers, commissioned to win the Bolshevik Revolution.  Thus, Dr. 
  Armand Hammer, who loudly proclaimed his influence in Russia as the 
  friend of Lenin, has an insignificant claim compared to the role of the 
  Rockefellers in backing world Communism.  

  Although Communism, like other "isms", had origined with Marx's 
  association with the House of Rothschild, it enlisted the reverent 
  support of John D.  Rockefeller because he saw Communism for what it is, 
  the ultimate monopoly, not only controlling the government, the monetary 
  system and all property, but also a monopoly which, like the corporations 
  it emulates, is self-perpetuating and eternal.  It was the logical 
  progression from his Standard Oil monopoly.  

  An important step on the road to world monopoly was the most far-reaching 
  corporation invented by the Rothschilds. This was the international drug 
  and chemical cartel, I. G. Farben. Called "a state within a state" , it 
  was created in 1925 as Interessen Gemeinschaft Farbeinindustrie Aktien 
  Gesellschaft, usually known simply as I. G. Farben, which simply meant 
  "The Cartel". It had originated in 1904, when the six major chemical 
  companies in Germany began negotiations to form the ultimate cartel, 
  merging Badische Anilin,Bayer,Agfa,Hoechst,Weiler-ter-Meer, and 
  Greisheim-Electron.  The guiding spirit,as well as the financing, came 
  from the Rothschilds, who were represented by their German banker, Max 
  Warburg of M. M. Warburg Company, Hamburg. He later headed the German 
  Secret Service during World War I and was personal financial advisor to 
  the Kaiser.  

  When the Kaiser was overthrown, after losing the war, Max Warburg was not 
  exiled with him to Holland; instead he became the financial advisor to 
  the new government.  

  Monarchs may come and go, but the real power remains with the bankers.  
  While representing Germany at the Paris Peace Conference, Max Warburg 
  spent pleasant hours renewing family ties with his brother, Paul Warburg, 
  who, after drafting the Federal Reserve Act at Jekyll Island, had headed 
  the U.S. banking system during the war.  He was in Paris as Woodrow 
  Wilson's financial advisor.  

  I. G. Farben soon had a net worth of six billion marks, controlling some 
  five hundred firms.  Its first president was Professor Carl Bosch. During 
  the period of the Weimar Republic, I.G. Farben officials,seeing the 
  handwriting, began a close association with one called Adolf Hitler, 
  supplying much needed funds and political influence.  

  The success of the I.G. Farben cartel had aroused the interest of other 
  industrialists.  Henry Ford was favorably impressed and set up a German 
  branch of Ford Motor Company. Forty percent of the stock was purchased by 
  I.G. Farben. I.G. Farben then established an American subsidiary called 
  American I.G., in cooperation with Standard Oil of New Jersey. Its 
  directors included Walter Teagle, President of Standard Oil, Paul Warburg 
  of Kuhn,Loeb Company and Edsel Ford, representing the Ford interests.  
  John Foster Dulles, for the law firm, Sullivan and Cromwell, became the 
  attorney for I.G., frequently traveling between New York and Berlin on 
  cartel business.  His law partner, Arthur Dean, is now director of the 
  $40 million Teagle Foundation which was set up before Teagle's death.  
  Like other fortunes, it had become part of the network.  

  =============Continued in Rockefeller Syndicate Part 2===================

-- 
-* Don Allen *-               // Only   | Tavistock + Esalen = "New Age"
Internet: dona@bilver.uucp  \X/ Amiga   | Rothschild + Rockefeller = FED
UUCP: .uunet!peora!bilver!vicstoy!dona  | UN + Maitreya = "Twilight Zone"
"A democracy cannot be both ignorant and free"  - Thomas Jefferson


 EXPOSE: Rockefeller Syndicate - Secret Govt pt 1 (53K)



This text is being posted with the intent to EDUCATE those of you who
know not the silent and pervasive influence of your hidden masters. Some
have looked for shadows of the old illuminati; they look amiss, not seeing
that which is all around them. If you know not the "who" and the "why",
efforts will be mis-directed. This is NOT a "conspiracy"..nay, it is a
very cold and calculated NETWORK of individuals whose intent is nothing
short of implementation of a "New World Order"; an oligarchic rein in which
*you* serve as little more that slaves in their "technocracy". This network
has every intention to implement a cashless society, for it is they who
control every aspect of finance and banking over the entire globe. They
have had about 100 years to perfect their plans and put them into practice.
 
Please understand that the Bilderbergers, the Council on Foreign Relations,
the Tri-lateral Commission,the Institute for Policy Studies, the Roundtables,
the "Club of Rome",etc are ALL bound by common denominators of long-standing
families ties, and interests and come together as a _single_ policy making
body that is known today as "The Committee of 300" . This has also been
known as "The Olympians", the "Policy Committee".
 
Don't be mis-led by labels such as "Rockefeller" or "Rothschild"; for these
are simply the families who have the mechanisms of control already set in
place,but of themselves are not the entire network; that being the
"Committee of 300". It is THEY who control the UN, who tell the heads of
nations "when to jump and how high", they who are behind the world's illicit
drug trade via the CIA and the old British East India links. They who
manage the IMF,set policy at GATT conferences. It is they who ARE the
"Shadow Government". It is they who manage the CIA,NSA,DIA..the same
group that took out JFK and have MURDERED around 173 people in their efforts
to suppress the truth about all the links..they who were behind the
assassination of RFK,MLK..they who are behind the suppression of truth
regarding the MIA's; It is the same group behind E. Howard Hunt,
John Singlaub, Ollie North..the very same group who brought down Richard
Nixon in Watergate..the same group behind the persecution of the Christic
Institute..the same people who were behind Nugan-Hand..the same group
that groomed Jimmy Carter for the Presidency..the same group who ARE
the "Military-Industrial complex", the same group behind the total
militarization of NASA..the same group who ARE "MJ-12", were behind the
"Jason Group"..the same behind Project Blue Book, The Condon Committee,
the same who started up the NSA..who are responsible for the MURDER of
Danny Casalaro..the same group responsible for the world-wide DISINFO
campaign regarding the TRUTH of UFO sightings and contacts. The very
SAME group who OWN THE MEDIA..ie..The Washington Post, NBC (General
Electric),ABC,CBS,The New York Times,etc. The same group behind the
the Warren Commission,ad nauseum..
 
I DO believe I could make a DIRECT connection here with just what 
CIABASE says on WACKENHUT that also ties in the Shadow Government
with UFO related installations; this is but *ONE* connection..there
are many,many more that can be and will be ferreted out for exposure.



===== Begin Included article =============================================


Message #6041 - INFO.PARANET 
   Date : 16-Jan-92 19:46
   From : Don Ecker
     To : John Galt
Subject : Wackenhut
John Galt said:

 > Wackenhut Corp., one of the nation's largest security firms, said Friday
 > it has bought the U.S. security operations of ISS International Service
 > System Inc.  The purchase price was not disclosed.  ISS International
 > has more than 700 employees in its U.S. security operations, primarily
 > in Jacksonville, Los Angeles, Dallas, Atlanta, Cleveland and
 > Chattanooga, Tenn.

In several investigations that I am currently involved in for UFO Magazine as
well as my radio show "UFOs Tonite", I have come across the Wackenhut
connection. As many of you may know, Wackenhut is responsible for outside
security around Area 51 and site S-4. Last year there was a helicopter crash
in Las Vegas that killed a number of Wackenhut employees, plus they are
involved in the Inslaw scandel. At any rate much more than I can go into here.
However************

I checked CIABASE and came up with the following. Incidently, all sources are
available for the following information if requested.

Read and contemplate.

*****************************************************************************

CIABASE FILES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONFLICT, LI

  PERU,  88-91  PRIVATE SECURITY CORPORATION FORMING IMPORTANT ROLE
  IN LIC-DRUG OPERATIONS. FROM 1981-91, PERUVIAN SECURITY CORPORATIONS
  INCREASED FROM 80 TO 350, PLUS 150 UNOFFICIAL ORGANIZATIONS. AMONG
  THOSE IS WACKENHUT CORP, WHOSE EMPLOYEES CONSIST OF MANY EX-CIA,
  DEA, FBI MEMBERS. Z 11/90 87

DOMESTIC OP

  CHILE, CUBA. WACKENHUT CORP OF CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA. PROVIDES
  SECURITY SYSTEMS THRUOUT WORLD. INMAN WAS DIRECTOR OF CORP PLUS
  OTHER INFLUENTIAL PERSONS IN  80  WACKENHUT WORKED CLOSELY WITH
  S. CALIFORNIA'S CABAZON INDIANS AND THEIR TRIBAL ADMINISTRATOR
  JOHN PHILIP NICHOLS. NICHOLS PER NEWS ARTICLE, BOASTED RE ATTEMPTED
  ASSASSINATION CASTRO AND SUCCESSFUL ASSASSINATION OF SALVADOR ALLENDE.
  WACKENHUT/CABAZON CONNECTION OF PARTICULAR INTEREST TO D. CASOLARO
  WHO DIED IN W.VIRGINIA IN  91  HE ALSO INVESTIGATING OCTOBER SURPRISE
  AND INSLAW. MICHAEL RICONOSCIUTO - A WEAPONS-SYSTEM DESIGNER AND
  SOFTWARE SPECIALIST - WAS DIR OF A RESEARCH PROJECT OF WACKENHUT/CABAZON
  JOINT VENTURE. IN EARLY 80s AFFIDAVIT SAID HE MODIFIED A STOLEN
  PROMIS SOFTWARE FOR FOREIGN SALES. OTHER INFO ON WACKENHUT. ITT
  9/24/81 4-5

  FOR EIGHT YEARS INSLAW BATTLING JUSTICE DEPT FOR POSSESSION OF
  PROMIS, A SOFT-WARE PROGRAM DEVELOPED BY COMPANY OWNER BILL HAMILTON.
  IN 91  INSLAW WENT PUBLIC AND ALLEGED REAGAN JUSTICE DEPT, AFTER IT
  HAD STOLEN PROMIS, TURNED IT OVER TO EARL BRIAN. INSLAW ALLEGES
  SOFTWARE GIVEN BRIAN AS PAYBACK FOR BRIAN'S HELP IN ARRANGING ARMS-FOR-
HOSTAGE DEAL WITH IRAN IN 1980 (OCTOBER SURPRISE). PER HAMILTON, BRIAN, WHO
RUNS UPI, ALLEGEDLY MARKETED PROMIS TO INTEL AGENCIES OF ISRAEL, JORDAN, IRAQ,
CANADA, SOUTH KOREA, LIBYA, ENGLAND, GERMANY, FRANCE, AUSTRALIA, THAILAND,
JAPAN, CHILE, GUATEMALA, AND BRAZIL. PER INSLAW, ONCE SOFTWARE USED BY FOREIGN
INTEL SERVICES, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (NSA) ABLE INFILTRATE COMPUTERIZED
INTEL FILES THOSE COUNTRIES. MODIFICATIONS TO PROMIS ALLEGEDLY DONE BY
WACKENHUT CORP. OF CORAL GABLES, FL. HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE INVESTIGATING
SCANDAL SINCE 89. ATTORNEY GENERAL THORNBURG, UNDER SUPOENA, RELEASED
INSLAW-RELATED FILES - BUT 15 TO 20 FILES MISSING. ITT 9/10/91 4-5

  STORY OF DANNY CASOLARO - WHO HAD BEEN SORTING THRU THE S&L DEBACLE,
  BCCI, IRAN-CONTRA, CONTRA-CONNECTED WACKENHUT CORP., WACKENHUT-CONNECTED
  INSLAW CASE AND INSLAW-CONNECTED "OCTOBER SURPRISE." ITT 9/10/91
  4-5

LIAISON

  INSLAW PRES BILL HAMILTON SAYS HE HAS INFO THAT PROMIS ILLEGALLY
  SOLD TO SOUTH KOREA, LIBYA, JORDAN, GREAT BRITAIN (ENGLAND), GERMANY,
  FRANCE, AUSTRALIA, THAILAND, JAPAN, CHILE, GUATEMALA, BRAZIL, AND
  CANADA. CANADIAN COMPANY, COMMUNICATIONS CANADA - THE CANADIAN
  WORKPLACE AUTOMATION RESEARCH CENTER (CWARC) WROTE INSLAW A LETTER.
  ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE ARE OPERATING PROMIS IN 900 LOCATIONS.
  MICHAEL RICONOSCIUTO SWORE IN AN AFFIDAVIT THAT WHEN HE DIRECTOR
  OF WACKENHUT CORP OF CORAL GABLES, FL ONE OF HIS JOBS TO ADAPT
  PROMIS SOFTWARE. PETER VIDENIEKS AND EARL W. BRIAN WERE FREQUENT
  VISITORS TO WACKENHUT. RICONOSCIUTO SAID HE TO MODIFY PROMIS FOR
  IMPLEMENTATION IN LAW ENFORCEMENT AND INTEL AGENCIES WORLDWIDE.
  AFTER TESTIFYING BEFORE HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE INVESTIGATORS,
  RICONOSCIUTO ARRESTED AND CHARGED WITH SELLING MORE THAN 4 GRAMS
  OF POTENT SPEED. ITT 6/11/91 11-13

END OF FILE ---------------------------
---------------------------------------------------

If you notice the name INMAN in the above, that is Adm. Bobby Inman recently
mentioned in Tim Good's book "Alien Liason" and the subject of the January
1992 rebuttal of Bob Oechsler in the MUFON Journel.

Best:

Don Ecker
Director Research
UFO Magazine

--- FD 1.99c
 * Origin: ParaNet Alpha-Delta The Data Base (9:1012/3.0)

===End of included article=================================================

Also here's something from last year on the ultra secret Bilderberg
meeting..what motivations and policies do you think that THEY
follow?

-----Begin included text---------------------------------------------------


From: campe@thor.uucp (Gary Campe ext )
Newsgroups: alt.activism,talk.politics.misc,misc.headlines
Subject: BILDERBERG ANNUAL MEETING SCHEDULED
Message-ID: <13155@fpssun>
Date: 22 Apr 91 17:56:38 GMT
References: The Spotlight
Sender: daemon@fpssun
Organization: FPS Computing, Beaverton, Oregon
Lines: 23


Ad as it appears in The Spotlight dated April 22, 1991:

JUNE 7-9 - Bilderberg group meets secretly at Baden-Baden, Germany.

Members will fly into Frankfurt, Germany or Stasbourg, France to be taken
in government helicopters to a heavily guarded hotel near Baden-Baden, site
of secret meeting of world's elite.  Agenda items include exploiting Middle
East oil and progress toward world government.  For information, call
David Rocefeller at (914) 631-1634 or his personal valet, Dr. Henry 
Kissinger at (212) 759-7919.

                            ******************

Have any of you been invited?



--
     RE-ELECT        "Government is not reason, it is not eloquence - it  
      NO-ONE!        is force.  Like fire, it is a dangerous servant and
    ==========       a fearful master" -- George Washington.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed are mine alone and not that of my employer.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


From: campe@thor.uucp (Gary Campe ext )
Newsgroups: misc.headlines,talk.politics.misc,alt.conspiracy
Subject: Bilderberg Annual Meeting - What was said
Message-ID: <14096@fpssun>
Date: 28 Jun 91 17:48:41 GMT
Sender: daemon@fps.com
Followup-To: misc.headlines
Distribution: usa
Organization: FPS Computing, Beaverton, Oregon
Lines: 42

This information was reported in the June 24, 1991 issue of "THE SPOTLIGHT".

This is not the entire article, only the highlights.  If you would like to
read this article in its entirety please refer to the above publication.

                        ----------------------------

The word out of the Bilderberg annual meeting is that there will be another
war within the next five years.

It was repeatedly stated at the Bilderberg meeting that there will be 
"other Saddams" in the years ahead who must be dealt with swiftly and 
efficiently.

The Bilderberg group plans a global army at the disposal of the United 
Nations.  It is their hope that the U.N. will become the world government
by the year 2000.

"A U.N. army must be able to act immediately, anywhere in the world, without
delays involved in each country making its own decision whether to
participate, based on parochial considerations," said Henry Kissinger.

If Americans can be persuaded to surrender warmaking decisions to the U.N.,
"parochial nationalism" in Briton, France and elsewhere will disappear,
Bilderberg speakers said.

"The Persian Gulf venture has advanced the cause by years" one speaker said.


                        ----------------------------

So there you have it, the "One Worlders" are still alive and well.

Garry

--
     RE-ELECT        "Government is not reason, it is not eloquence - it  
      NO-ONE!        is force.  Like fire, it is a dangerous servant and
    ==========       a fearful master" -- George Washington.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed are mine alone and not that of my employer.


---End included text---------------------------------------------------------


The following is on the historical perspective of just the Rockefeller
and Rothschild connections and in no way attempts to cover every
aspect, but will suffice to give you a basis on which to understand
how pervasive the Web of influence is and that it is a good deal MORE
than "merely a conspiracy". Just WHO makes up the ILLEGAL SHADOW
GOVERMNENT,YOUR HIDDEN MASTERS?

I ask no one to accept any of this at face value, and would heartily
encourage you to perform your own investigation. To that end,I've
provided an extensive list of reading materials at the end of this
text. 
 
And lastly, I would include a very lucid assessment of our situation
by John DiNardo, which in my opinion, is absolutely correct. There have
been MANY people who are posting such as John, Dave Radcliffe, Rich
Winkel and others who have been showing you just *WHO* the CANCER IS.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
    If the usurpers of our freedom, the plunderers of our life's earnings,
    the despoilers of our planet Earth, the deluders of our TV-zombified
    society, the desecrators of our Constitution can crush the Christic 
    Institute -- than what refuge is left for the few remaining 
    Christic-like organizations to shelter THEM from this Frankenstein
    Monster government?  What refuge is left for you and me, and for our
    children who will necessarily find themselves forced to riot and
    spill their blood in the streets during the twenty-first century? 
    It always degenerates to that, you know.

    We Americans are a lazy, short-sighted bunch. We realize that if we
    don't earn a living, we will be impoverished. We realize that if we
    don't brush our teeth, our teeth will rot out of our mouths. We 
    realize that if we don't service our cars, they will fail to operate.
    Yet, we don't realize -- or we're too lazy to admit -- that if we
    don't supervise and participate in our system of government to ensure
    that our Constitution is protected from the greedy, power-mad 
    neurotics whose ambitions drive them to seize the reins of power 
    and wealth vested in our Federal Government, then our libertarian 
    foundations will crumble beneath us, leaving us to fall into the
    pit of subjugation that the corporate rulers have prepared for us.

    As we witness our free-fall into the pit, we finally understand
    that the law is slipping out of our hands; that we and our children
    will have to resort to meeting in dark rooms and plotting to recover
    our Constitutional freedoms which the usurpers have seized through
    television, that great national Svengali -- that opiate of the masses 
    which they have so cleverly employed to sedate, delude and distract us
    while quietly cuffing our ankles and wrists. How could we be so stupid
    as to surrender our minds to Big Brother, never suspecting that 
    whenever someone offers you free entertainment, day after day and
    year after year, it's got to be costing you.  

    Why shouldn't we be as vulnerable to totalitarianism as are
    the peoples of most other societies around the world. More so, 
    considering the fact that totalitarianism originates from within the 
    military elite. And whose nation has the most savagely powerful  
    military force on the planet?  What's worse is that it's not just the
    military that's militating against our Constitutional freedoms.
    It's the military-industrial complex. President Eisenhower left office
    a third of a century ago by warning us that the military-industrial
    complex is the greatest threat to our freedom. That was as much of
    a warning as he dared give, lest he meet the doom of his valiant 
    successor who tried to actually BE the President of the United States.

    How knowledgeable was the General of the Army of the Second World War,
    Dwight Eisenhower, in his fear of the military-industrial complex?
    As knowledgeable as President Kennedy is dead!

    So you see, there really isn't much time left. If we prove to be too
    lazy now to unite behind Constitutional upholders such as the
    Christic Institute -- then our children in the twenty-first century
    will NOT be too frightened to stand up against the bullets of the
    Wackenhut Security Corporation of Coral Gables, Florida. Because
    when the oppression becomes intolerable, you, I and anyone would 
    stand up to bullets, rather than go on living in unbearable agony.
    Ask the Palestinian people who stand up to bullets every day --
    or the Rumanian people, or the Guatemalan people, or the Filipino 
    people, or the Chinese people, or the Iranian people, or the
    Tibetan people, or the Timorese people.

    If we prove to be too lazy now, OUR generation may even see the day
    when citizens will speak softly and listen intently for the footsteps
    of the Gestapo who may finally come to kick down our front door and
    arrest us for plotting to regain the Constitutional freedoms 
    that were once our heritage.

            John DiNardo

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Excerpted from the book, "Rape of The Constitution; Death of Freedom" by 
  Gyeorgos C. Hatonn . 

  *** The Rockefeller Syndicate ***

  ========================================================================

  Many American conservatives believe as a matter of faith that the 
  Rockefellers and the Council on Foreign Relations exercise absolute 
  control over the government and the people of the U.S.  This thesis can 
  be accepted as a working formula if one remains conscious of the larger 
  issues.  Two writers for whom the present writer (E.M) has great respect, 
  Dr. Emanuel Josephson and Morris Bealle, insisted on focusing on the 
  Rockefellers and excluding all other aspects of the World Order. This 
  severely limited the effect of their otherwise groundbreaking work on the 
  Medical Monopoly. This writer advanced a contrary view in "The World 
  Order," fixing upon the Rothschild monetary power, which reached a point 
  of world control by 1885, and its London policy group, the Royal 
  Institute of International Affairs, as the policy makers for what has 
  essentially been, since 1900, a re-established colonial government, 
  functions primarily through the Council on Foreign Relations, but only as 
  the subsidiary of RIIA and through the Rockefeller Foundation, which 
  controls government functions, the educational establishments, the media, 
  the religions and the state legislatures.  

  It is true that the American colonials have "free elections," in which 
  they have the absolute right to vote for one of two opposing candidates, 
  both of whom have been handpicked and financed by the Rockefeller 
  syndicate.  This touching evidence of "democracy" serves to convince most 
  Americans that you are indeed a free people.  You even have a cracked 
  Liberty Bell in Philadelphia to prove it.  American youths have been free 
  since 1900 to be marched off to die in Hegelian wars in which both 
  combatants received their instructions from the World Order. You are free 
  to invest in a stock market in which the daily quantity,price and value 
  of the monetary unit is manipulated and controlled by a Federal Reserve 
  System which is answerable only to the Bank of England. It has maintained 
  its vaunted "independence" from your government control, but this is the 
  only independence it has ever had.  

  The realization that you do indeed live under the dictates of the 
  "Rockefeller Syndicate" can well be the starting point of the long road 
  back of a genuine struggle for American independence.  In exposing "the 
  Rockefellers" as agents of a foreign power, which is not merely a foreign 
  power, but a genuine world government, you must realize that this is not 
  merely a group dedicated to making money, but a group which is committed 
  to maintaining the power of a colonial form of government over the 
  American people.  Thus the ancient calumny of John D. Rockefeller as a 
  man obsessed by greed (a category in which he has plenty of company) 
  obscures the fact that from the day the Rothschilds began to finance his 
  march towards a total oil monopoly in the United States from their 
  coffers at the National City Bank of Cleveland, Rockefeller was never an 
  independent power, nor does any department of the Rockefeller Syndicate 
  operate as an independent power.  You know that the Cosa Nostra, or 
  Mafia, with which the Syndicate is closely allied, has somewhat 
  autonomous power in the regions which have been assigned to that 
  particular "family" by the national directors, but this always implies 
  that that family remains under total control and answerable for 
  everything which occurs in its territory.  

  Similarly, the Rockefeller Syndicate operates under clearly defined 
  spheres of influence.  The "charitable" organizations, the business 
  companies and the policy groups, always meld into a working operation, 
  nor can any department of the Syndicate strike out on its own or 
  formulate an independent policy, no matter what may be its 
  justification.  

  The Rockefeller Syndicate operates under the control of the world 
  financial structure, which means that on any given day, all of its assets 
  could be rendered close to worthless by adroit financial manipulation.  
  This is the final control, which ensures that no one can quit the 
  organization.  Not only would he be stripped of all assets, but he would 
  be under contract for immediate assassination.  The Department of Justice 
  is well aware that the only "terrorists" operating in the United States 
  are the agents of the World Order, but they prudently avoid any mention 
  of this fact.  

  The world financial structure, far from being an unknown or hidden 
  organization, is actually well known and well defined.  It consists of 
  the major Swiss Banks; the survivors of the old Venetian-Genoese banking 
  axis; the Big Five of the world grain trade; the British combine, 
  centered in the Bank of England and its chartered merchant banks, 
  functioning through the Rothschilds and the Oppenheimers and having 
  absolute control over their Canadian colony through the Royal Bank of 
  Canada and the Bank of Montreal, their Canadian lieutenants being the 
  Bronfmans, Belzbergs, Reichmanns and other financial operators; and the 
  colonial banking structure in the U.S., controlled by the Bank of England 
  through the Federal Reserve System; the Boston Brahmin families who made 
  their fortunes in the opium trade, including the Delanos and others and 
  the Rockefeller Bank, Chase Manhattan Bank, American Express, the present 
  form of the old Rothschild representatives in the U.S., which includes 
  Kuhn,Loeb Company and Lehman Brothers.  

  It is notable that the Rockefeller Syndicate is far down on the list of 
  the worlds financial structure.  Why then is it of such importance?  
  Although it is not the crucial factor in financial decision in the 
  Western Hemisphere, it is the actual working control mechanism of the 
  American colony.  The Rockefeller family themselves,like the 
  Morgans,Schiffs and Warburgs, have faded into insignificance, but the 
  mechanism created in their name roars along at full power,still 
  maintaining all of the functions for which it was organized.  Since he 
  set up the Trilateral Commission, David Rockefeller has functioned as a 
  sort of international courier for the World Order, principally concerned 
  with delivering working instructions to the Communist bloc,either 
  directly, in New York or by traveling to the area.  Laurence Rockefeller 
  is active in the operation of the Medical Monopoly, but his principal 
  interests are in operating various vacation spas in tropical areas.  They 
  are the two survivors of the "Fortunate Five," the five sons of John D. 
  Rockefeller, Jr. and Abby Aldrich. John D. Rockefeller, Jr. died in an 
  institution in Tucson,Arizona and was hastily cremated.  John D. 
  Rockefeller III died in a mysterious accident on a New York Parkway near 
  his home.  Nelson Rockefeller, named after his grandfather, died in the 
  arms of a TV journalist.  It was later revealed that he had also been in 
  the arms of another TV journalist at the same time; the death was hushed 
  up for many hours.  It was generally believed that he ran afoul of his 
  Columbian drug connection, the disagreement hardly being trivial; it 
  involved several billion dollars in drug profits which had not been 
  properly apportioned.  Winthrop Rockefeller died an alcoholic in the arms 
  of his black boy friend.  He had been interviewed on television by Harry 
  Reasoner to explain his hasty move from New York to Arkansas. Winthrop 
  learned that his black boy friend, an Army sergeant who apparently taught 
  him the mysteries of drill,refused to live in New York. To celebrate this 
  alliance, Winthrop Rockefeller gave magnificiently to Negro 
  causes,including the Urban League building on East 48th Street in New 
  York. A plaque on the second floor notes that it was his gift; it might 
  well have stated "From Hadrian to his Antinous."  

  We do not wish to imply that the Rockefellers no longer have influence, 
  but that the major policy dictates of the Rockefeller Syndicate are 
  handed down by other caps, of whom they continue to be a visible force.  
  Through the person of David Rockefeller, the family is sometimes called 
  "the first family of the Soviet Union." Only he and Dr. Armand Hammer, 
  the moving force behind USTEC, have permanent permission to land their 
  private planes at the Moscow Airport. Others would suffer the fate of KAL 
  007. David Rockefeller's most significant trip to the Soviet Union may 
  have been the fateful day when he landed in Moscow, having been told to 
  inform Khrushchev that he was "through". The Russians are very health 
  conscious, and a scientist had sent information to Khrushchev that the 
  use of chemical fertilizers in the Soviet Union presented a threat to the 
  people.  Khrushchev then announced a major change in the Soviet farm 
  policy, centering around a reduction in the use of chemicals.  This was 
  upsetting to the head of the world's Chemical Fertilizer trust, David 
  Rockefeller, and he responded with a terse one word command, "Out".  

  Both the Rockefeller family fortune and the considerable portion set 
  aside in the foundations of the Rockefeller Syndicate are effectively 
  insulated against any type of government control.  FORTUNE magazine noted 
  August ,1986, that John D. Rockefeller,Jr.  had created trusts in 1934 
  which now amounted to some $2.3 billion; another 200 million had been set 
  aside for the Abby Rockefeller branch.  The five sons had trusts which in 
  1986 amounted to $2.1 billion.  These trusts had originally amounted to 
  only $50 million each,showing the increase in their assets as well as 
  inflation during the ensuing half century.  FORTUNE estimated the 1986 
  total Rockefeller wealth as $3.5 billion of which $900 million was in 
  securities and real estate.  They owned 45% of the Time Life 
  Building; Nelson Rockefeller's International Basic Economy Corporation had 
  been sold to a British company in 1980. For years, the Rockefeller family 
  had deliberately kept the rents low in its major holding, Rockefeller 
  Center, a $1.6 billion investment yielding an annual return of 1% . This 
  was a convenient manuever for tax purposes, and a good one at that.  

  Much of the Rockefeller wealth might be attributed to old John D.'s 
  rapacity and ruthlessness; its origins are indubitably based in his 
  initial financing from the National City Bank of Cleveland, which was 
  identified in Congressional reports as one of the three Rothschild banks 
  in the United States and by his later acceptance of the guidance of Jacob 
  Schiff of Kuhn,Loeb Company, who had been born in the Rothschild house in 
  Franfort and was now the principal Rothschild representive (but unknown 
  as such to the public) in the United States.  

  With the seed money from the National City Bank in Cleveland, old John D. 
  Rockefeller soon laid claim to the title of the "most ruthless American". 
  It is more than likely that it was this quality which persuaded the 
  Rothschilds to back him.  Rockefeller realized early in the game that the 
  oil refinery business, which could offer great profits in a short time, 
  also was at the mercy of uncontrolled competition.  His solution was a 
  simple one--crush all competition.  The famous Rockefeller dedication to 
  total monopoly was simply a business decision.  Rockefeller embarked on a 
  campaign of coercing all competing oil refineries out of business.  He 
  attacked on a number of fronts, which is also a lesson to all would be 
  entrepreneurs.  First, he would send a minion, not known to be working for 
  Rockefeller, with an offer to buy the competing refinery for a low 
  price,but offering cash.  If the offer was refused, the competitor would 
  then come under attack from a competing refinery which greatly undercut 
  his price.  He might also suffer a sudden strike at his refinery,which 
  would force him to shut down.  Control of labor through unions has always 
  been a basic Rockefeller technique.  Like the Soviet Union, they seldom 
  have labor trouble.  If these techniques failed, Rockefeller would then 
  be saddened by a reluctant decision to use violence; beating the rival 
  workers as they went to and from their jobs, or burning or blowing up the 
  competing refinery.  

  These techniques convinced the Rothschilds that they had found their 
  man.They sent their personal representative,Jacob Schiff, to Cleveland to 
  help Rockefeller plan further expansion.  At this time,the Rothschilds 
  controlled 95% of all railroad mileage in the United States,through the 
  J.P. Morgan Company and Kuhn Loeb Company,according to official 
  Department of Commerce figures for the year 1895. J.P. Morgan mentions in 
  his "Who's Who" listing that he controlled 50,000 miles of U.S. 
  railways.  Schiff worked out an elaborate rebate deal for 
  Rockefeller,through a dummy corporation,South Improvement Company. These 
  rebates ensured that no other oil company could survive in competition 
  with the Rockefeller firm.  The scheme was later exposed,but by that time 
  Rockefeller had achieved a virtual monopoly of the oil business in the 
  U.S. The daughter of one of his victims, Ida Tarbell,whose father was 
  ruined by Rockefeller's criminal operations, wrote the first major expose 
  of the Standard Oil Trust. She was promptly denounced as a "muckracker" 
  by the poseur, Theodore Roosevelt, who claimed to be a "trustbuster." In 
  fact, he ensured the dominance of the Standard Oil Trust and other giant 
  trusts.  

  During the next half century, John D. Rockefeller was routinely 
  caricatured by socialist propagandists as the epitome of the ruthless 
  capitalist.  At the same time, he was the principal financier of the 
  world Communist movement, through a firm called American International 
  Company. Despite the fact that the House of Rothschild had already 
  achieved world control,the sound and the fury was directed exclusively 
  against its two principal representatives,John D. Rockefeller and J.P. 
  Morgan.  One of the few revelations of the actual state of affairs 
  appeared in TRUTH magazine,Dec 16,1912, which pointed out that "Mr. 
  Schiff is head of the great private banking house of Kuhn, Loeb Company 
  (I knew some of you bright readers would finally pick up that these names 
  are all attached to the greatest pharmaceutical firms in the world--even 
  into your very vitamin supplement business!), which represents the 
  Rothschild interests on your side of the Atlantic. He is described as a 
  financial strategist and has been for years the financial minister of the 
  great impersonal power known as Standard Oil."  Note that the name of 
  Rockefeller was not mentioned in the quote.  

  Because of these concealed factors,it was a relatively simple matter for 
  the American public to accept the "fact" that the Rockefellers were the 
  preeminent power in your country.  This myth was actually clothed in the 
  apparel of power,the Rockefeller Oil Trust becoming the 
  "military-industrial complex" which assumed political control of the 
  nation; the Rockefeller Medical Monopoly attained control of the health 
  care of the nation, and the Rockefeller Foundation, a web of affiliated 
  tax emempt creations, effectively controlled the religious and 
  educational life of the nation.  The myth succeeded in its goal of 
  camouflaging the hidden rulers, the Rothschilds.  

  After Eustis Mullins and a few others, had been exposing this charade for 
  some twenty-five years a new myth began to be noised about in American 
  conservative circles, effectively propagated by active double agents.  
  This myth found a host of eager believers,because it heralded a growing 
  crack in the monolithic power which had been oppressing all the peoples 
  of the world.  This "new" revelation was that a struggle to the death for 
  world power had developed between the Rockefellers and the Rothschilds. 
  According to this startling development, one faction or the other, 
  depending on which agent you were listening to, had gained control of the 
  Soviet Union and would use its power as the basis for achieving the 
  overthrow of the other faction.  The sudden death of several members of 
  the Rockefeller family was cited as "proof" that such a struggle was 
  taking place, although no Rothschild is known to have succumbed during 
  this "war." This ignored the general understanding that Nelson 
  Rockefeller had been "eliminated" as the result of losing deposit slips 
  for several billion dollars of drugs from the Columbian cartel, or that 
  the other Rockefeller deaths showed no trace of a "Rothschild 
  connection."  

  Having maintained extensive files on this situation for several decades, 
  the writer (E.M.),could not believe anyone could be so misinformed as to 
  think that "the Rockefellers" were now trying to seize power from the 
  Rothschilds, at a time when the influence of members of the Rockefeller 
  family was already in great decline, their family finances being handled 
  by John J. McCloy, and other faithful retainers;none of the retainers 
  would have been willing to engage in a genuine power struggle, as they 
  were faceless managers who lived only for their weekly paycheck.  They 
  had no ambitions of their own.  Nevertheless, many hopeful Americans 
  grasped at the will-o-the-wisp notion the Rockefellers were now "good 
  Americans" who were willing to risk all to overthrow the Rothschilds. 
  Amazingly enough, this pernicious story persisted for almost a decade 
  before being relegated to the curiosities of history.  

  Like J.P. Morgan, who had begun his commercial career by selling the U.S. 
  Army some defective guns, the famous Hall carbine affair, John D. 
  Rockefeller also was a war profiteer during the Civil War;he sold 
  unstamped Harkness liquor to Federal troops at a high profit, gaining the 
  initial capital to embark on his drive for monopoly.  His interest in the 
  oil business was a natural one; his father,William Rockefeller had been 
  "in oil" for years.  William Rockefeller had become an oil entrepreneur 
  after salt wells at Tarentum, near Pittsburgh, were discovered in 1842 to 
  be flowing with oil.  The owners of the wells,Samuel L. Kier, began to 
  bottle the oil and sell it for medicinal purposes.  One of his earliest 
  wholesalers was William Rockefeller. The "medicine" was originally 
  labelled "Kier's Magic Oil". Rockefeller printed his own labels, using 
  "Rock Oil" or "Seneca Oil", Seneca being the name of a well known Indian 
  Tribe. Rockefeller achieved his greatest notoriety and his greatest 
  profits by advertising himself as "William Rockefeller, the Celebrated 
  Cancer Specialist".  It is understandable that his grandsons would become 
  the controlling power behind the scenes of the world's most famous cancer 
  treatment center and would direct government funds and charitable 
  contributions to those areas which only benefit the Medical Monopoly. 
  William Rockefeller spared no claim in his flamboyant career.  He 
  guaranteed "All Cases of Cancer Cured Unless They Are Too Far Gone". Such 
  were the healing powers that he attributed to his magic cancer cure that 
  he was able to retail it for $25 a bottle, a sum then equivalent to two 
  month's wages.  The "cure" consisted of a few well known diuretics, which 
  had been diluted by water.  This carnival medicine show barker could 
  hardly have envisioned that his descendants would control the greatest 
  and the most profitable Medical Monopoly in recorded history.  

  As an itinerant "carnie", a traveling carnival peddler, William 
  Rockefeller had chosen a career which interfered with developing a stable 
  family life.  His son, John, rarely saw him, a circumstance which has 
  inspired some psychological analysts to conjecture that the absence of a 
  father figure or parental love may have contributed to John D. 
  Rockefeller's subsequent development as a money mad tyrant who plotted to 
  maim, poison and kill millions of his fellow Americans during almost a 
  century of his monopolistic operations and whose influence, reaching up 
  from the grave, remains the most dire and malignant presence in American 
  life.  This may have been a contributing factor--however, it is also 
  possible that he was totally evil.  It is hardly arguable that he is 
  probably one of the most Satanic figures in American history.  Evil being 
  defined as anything that moves the spiritual aspect of beingness away 
  from God as influenced through another.  

  It has long been a truism that you can find a horse thief or two in any 
  prominent American family.  In the Rockefeller family, it was more than 
  true in the case of William who seemed to have faithfully followed the 
  precepts of the Will of Canaan throughout his career, "love robbery, love 
  lechery".  He fled from a number of indictments for horse stealing and 
  you know how serious that is, finally disappearing altogether as William 
  and Rockefeller and magically re-emerging as a Dr. William Levingston of 
  Philadelphia, a name which he retained for the rest of his life.  An 
  investigative reporter at Joseph Pulitzer's New York World received a tip 
  that was followed up.  The World then disclosed that William Avery 
  Rockefeller had died May 11, 1906 in Freeport, Illinois, where he was 
  interred in an unmarked grave as Dr. William Levingston.  

  William Rockefeller's vocation as a medicine man greatly facilitated his 
  preferred profession of horse thief.  As one who planned to be in the 
  next county by morning, it was a simple matter to tie a handsome stallion 
  to the back of his wagon and head for the open road.  It also played a 
  large part in his vocation as a woman-chaser; he was described as being 
  "woman-mad".  

  On June 28,1849, he was indicted for raping a hired girl in Cayuga,New 
  York; he later was found to be residing in Oswego, New York and was 
  forced once again to decamp for parts unknown.  He had no difficulty in 
  financing his woman-chasing interests from the sale of his miraculous 
  cancer cure and from another product, his "Wonder Working Liniment", 
  which he offered at only two dollars a bottle.  It consisted of crude 
  petroleum from which the lighter oils had been boiled away, leaving a 
  heavy solution of paraffin,lube oil and tar, which comprised the 
  "liniment". William Rockefeller's original miracle oil survived until 
  quite recently as a concoction called Nujol, consisting principally of 
  petroleum and peddled as a laxative.  It was well known that Nujol was 
  merely an advertising sobriquet meaning "new oil", as opposed apparently, 
  to "old oil".  Sold as an antidote to constipation, it robbed the body of 
  fat-soluble vitamins, it being a well-established medical fact that 
  mineral oil coated the intestine and prevented the absorption of many 
  needed vitamins and other nutritional needs.  Its makers added carotine 
  as a sop to the health-conscious, but it was hardly worth the bother.  
  Nujol was manufactured by a subsidiary of Standard Oil of New Jersey, 
  called Stanco, whose only other product, manufactured on the same 
  premises, was the famous insecticide, Flit.  

  Nujol was hawked from the Senate Office Building in Washington for years 
  during a more liberal interpretation of "conflict of interest".  In this 
  case, it was hardly a conflict of interest, because the august 
  peddler,Senator Royal S. Copeland, never had any interests other than 
  serving the Rockefellers.  He was a physician whom Rockefeller had 
  appointed as head of the New York State Department of Health and later 
  financed his campaign for the Senate.  Copeland's frank display of 
  commercialism amazed even the most blase' Washington reporters.  

  He devoted his Senate career to a daily program advertising Nujol. A 
  microphone was set up in his Senate office each morning, the first order 
  of business being the Nujol program, for which he was paid $75,000 a 
  year, an enormous salary in the 1930's and more than the salary of the 
  President of the United States. Senator Copeland's exploits earned him a 
  number of nicknames on Capital Hill. He was often called the Senator from 
  the American Medical Association, because of his enthusiastic backing for 
  any program launched by the AMA and Morris Fishbein. More realistically, 
  he was usually referred to as "the Senator from Standard Oil". He could 
  be counted on to promote any legislation devised for the greater profit 
  of the Rockefeller monopoly.  During congressional debate on the Food and 
  Drug Act in 1938, he came under criticism from Congresswoman Leonor 
  Sullivan, who charged that Senator Copeland, a physician who handled the 
  bill on the Senate floor, frankly acknowledged during the debate that 
  soap was exempted from the law because the soap manufacturers, who were 
  the nation's largest advertisers, would otherwise join with other big 
  industries to fight the bill.  Congresswoman Sullivan complained that, 
  "Soap was officially declared in the law not to be a cosmetic.  The hair 
  dye manufacturers were given a license to market known dangerous 
  products, just so long as they placed a special warning on the label - 
  but what woman in a beauty parlor ever sees the label on the bulk 
  container in which hair dye is shipped?"  

  Just as the elder Rockefeller had spent his life in the pursuit of his 
  personal obsession, women, so his son John was equally obsessed, being 
  money-mad instead of woman-mad, totally committed to the pursuit of 
  ever-increasing wealth and power.  However, the principal accomplishments 
  of the Rockefeller drive for power, the rebate scheme for monopoly, the 
  chartering of the foundations to gain power over American citizens,the 
  creation of the central bank, the Federal Reserve System, the backing of 
  the World Communist Revolution and the creation of the Medical Monoply, 
  all came from the Rothschilds or from their European employees.  

  We cannot find in the records of John D. Rockefeller that he originated 
  any of these programs.  The concept of the tax exempt charitable 
  foundation originated with the Rothschild minion, George Peabody, in 
  1865. The Peabody Educational Foundation later became the Rockefeller 
  Foundation and many of you should recall that item.  Not that you might 
  have been around then but it continues to inadvertently be referred to as 
  such.  

  It is unlikely that even the diabolical mind of John D. Rockefeller could 
  have conceived of this devious twist.  A social historian has described 
  the major development of the late nineteenth century, when charitable 
  foundations and world Communism became important movements, as one of the 
  more interesting facets of history, perhaps equivalent to the discovery 
  of the wheel or fire.  This new discovery was the concept developed by 
  the rats, who after all have rather highly developed intelligences, that 
  they could trap people by baiting traps with little bits of cheese.  The 
  history of mankind since then has been the rats catching humans in their 
  traps.  Socialism -- indeed, any government program -- is simply the rat 
  baiting the trap with a smidgeon of cheese and catching himself a human.  

  Congressman Wright Patman, chairman of the House Banking and Currency 
  Committee, noted from the floor of Congress that the establishment of the 
  Rockefeller Foundation effectively insulated Standard Oil from 
  competition.  The controlling stock had been removed from market 
  manipulation or possible buyouts by competitors.  It also relieved 
  Standard Oil from most taxation, which then placed a tremendous added 
  burden on individual American taxpayers.  Although a Rockefeller relative 
  by marriage, Senator Nelson Aldrich, Republican majority leader in the 
  Senate, had pushed the General Education Board charter through Congress, 
  the Rockefeller Foundation charter proved to be more difficult.  
  Widespread criticism of Rockefeller's monopolistic practices was heard, 
  and his effort to insulate his profits from taxation or takeover was seen 
  for what it was.  The charter was finally pushed through in 1913 (the 
  significant Masonic numeral 13 -- 1913 was also the year of the 
  progressive income tax and of the enactment of the Federal Reserve Act). 
  Senator Robert F. Wagner of New York, another Senator from Standard Oil 
  (there were quite a few), ramrodded the Congressional approval of the 
  charter.  The charter was then signed by John D. Rockefeller, John D. 
  Rockefeller, Jr., Henry Pratt Judson, president of the Rockefeller 
  established University of Chicago,Simon Flexner, director of the 
  Rockefeller Institute, Starr Jameson, described in "Who's Who" as 
  "personal counsel to John D. Rockefeller in his benevolences", and 
  Charles W. Eliot, president of Harvard University.  

  The Rockefeller Oil Monopoly is now 127 years old, yet in 1911, the 
  Supreme Court, bowing to public outrage, had ruled that it had to be 
  broken up.  The resulting companies proved to be no problem for the 
  Rockefeller interests.  The family retained a two per cent holding in 
  each of the "new" companies, while the Rockefeller foundations took a 
  three per cent holding in each company.  This gave them a five per cent 
  stock interest in each company; a one per cent holding in a corporation 
  is usually sufficient to maintain working control.  

  The involvement of the Rockefellers in promoting the World Communist 
  Revolution also developed from their business interests.  There was never 
  any commitment to the Marxist ideology; like anything else, it was there 
  to be used.  At the turn of the century, Standard Oil was competing 
  fiercely with Royal Dutch Shell for control of the lucrative European 
  market.  Congressional testimony revealed that Rockefeller had sent large 
  sums of money to Lenin and Trotsky to instigate the Communist Revolution 
  in 1905. His banker, Jacob Schiff had previously financed the Japanese in 
  their war against Russia and had sent a personal emissary, George Kennan 
  to Russia to spend some twenty years in promoting revolutionary activity 
  against the Czar.  

  When the 1905 revolution failed, Lenin was placed "in storage" in 
  Switzerland until 1907. Trotsky was brought to the U.S., where he lived 
  rent free on the Standard Oil property at Bayonne,New Jersey, its tank 
  field.  When the Czar abdicated, Trotsky was placed on a ship with three 
  hundred Communist revolutionaries from the Lower East Side of New York. 
  Rockefeller obtained a special passport for Trotsky from Woodrow Wilson 
  and sent Lincoln Steffens with him to make sure he was returned safely to 
  Russia. For traveling expenses, Rockefeller placed a purse containing 
  $10,000 in Trotsky's pocket.  

  On April 13,1917, when the ship stopped in Halifax, Canadian Secret 
  Service officers immediately arrested Trotsky and interred him in Nova 
  Scotia. The case became an international cause celebre, as leading 
  government officials from several nations frantically demanded Trotsky's 
  release.  The Secret Service had been tipped off that Trotsky was on his 
  way to take Russia out of the war, freeing more German armies to attack 
  Canadian troups on the Western Front.  

  Prime Minister Lloyd George hurriedly cabled orders from London to the 
  Canadian Secret Service to free Trotsky at once - they ignored him.  
  Trotsky was finally freed by the intervention of one of Rockefeller's 
  most faithful stooges, Canadian Minister Mackenzie King, who had long 
  been a "labor specialist" for the Rockefellers. King personally obtained 
  Trotsky's release and sent him on his way as the emissary of the 
  Rockefellers, commissioned to win the Bolshevik Revolution.  Thus, Dr. 
  Armand Hammer, who loudly proclaimed his influence in Russia as the 
  friend of Lenin, has an insignificant claim compared to the role of the 
  Rockefellers in backing world Communism.  

  Although Communism, like other "isms", had origined with Marx's 
  association with the House of Rothschild, it enlisted the reverent 
  support of John D.  Rockefeller because he saw Communism for what it is, 
  the ultimate monopoly, not only controlling the government, the monetary 
  system and all property, but also a monopoly which, like the corporations 
  it emulates, is self-perpetuating and eternal.  It was the logical 
  progression from his Standard Oil monopoly.  

  An important step on the road to world monopoly was the most far-reaching 
  corporation invented by the Rothschilds. This was the international drug 
  and chemical cartel, I. G. Farben. Called "a state within a state" , it 
  was created in 1925 as Interessen Gemeinschaft Farbeinindustrie Aktien 
  Gesellschaft, usually known simply as I. G. Farben, which simply meant 
  "The Cartel". It had originated in 1904, when the six major chemical 
  companies in Germany began negotiations to form the ultimate cartel, 
  merging Badische Anilin,Bayer,Agfa,Hoechst,Weiler-ter-Meer, and 
  Greisheim-Electron.  The guiding spirit,as well as the financing, came 
  from the Rothschilds, who were represented by their German banker, Max 
  Warburg of M. M. Warburg Company, Hamburg. He later headed the German 
  Secret Service during World War I and was personal financial advisor to 
  the Kaiser.  

  When the Kaiser was overthrown, after losing the war, Max Warburg was not 
  exiled with him to Holland; instead he became the financial advisor to 
  the new government.  

  Monarchs may come and go, but the real power remains with the bankers.  
  While representing Germany at the Paris Peace Conference, Max Warburg 
  spent pleasant hours renewing family ties with his brother, Paul Warburg, 
  who, after drafting the Federal Reserve Act at Jekyll Island, had headed 
  the U.S. banking system during the war.  He was in Paris as Woodrow 
  Wilson's financial advisor.  

  I. G. Farben soon had a net worth of six billion marks, controlling some 
  five hundred firms.  Its first president was Professor Carl Bosch. During 
  the period of the Weimar Republic, I.G. Farben officials,seeing the 
  handwriting, began a close association with one called Adolf Hitler, 
  supplying much needed funds and political influence.  

  The success of the I.G. Farben cartel had aroused the interest of other 
  industrialists.  Henry Ford was favorably impressed and set up a German 
  branch of Ford Motor Company. Forty percent of the stock was purchased by 
  I.G. Farben. I.G. Farben then established an American subsidiary called 
  American I.G., in cooperation with Standard Oil of New Jersey. Its 
  directors included Walter Teagle, President of Standard Oil, Paul Warburg 
  of Kuhn,Loeb Company and Edsel Ford, representing the Ford interests.  
  John Foster Dulles, for the law firm, Sullivan and Cromwell, became the 
  attorney for I.G., frequently traveling between New York and Berlin on 
  cartel business.  His law partner, Arthur Dean, is now director of the 
  $40 million Teagle Foundation which was set up before Teagle's death.  
  Like other fortunes, it had become part of the network.  

  =============Continued in Rockefeller Syndicate Part 2===================

-- 
-* Don Allen *-               // Only   | Tavistock + Esalen = "New Age"
Internet: dona@bilver.uucp  \X/ Amiga   | Rothschild + Rockefeller = FED
UUCP: .uunet!peora!bilver!vicstoy!dona  | UN + Maitreya = "Twilight Zone"
"A democracy cannot be both ignorant and free"  - Thomas Jefferson
