

Skolnick COMMENTARY #004
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnik, Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 
9800 Oglesby.

In Chicago, getting hotter and hotter is a scandal involving the 
federal prosecutors office here.

A federal grand jury is considering charges against assistant 
federal prosecutor William R. Hogan(?), jr. and others. According 
to testimony already brought out in related matters in court, 
Hogan procured perjured testimony in his prosecution of the El 
Rukn dope and murder gang. As a result, several federal judges 
have already put back on the street some of these convicted 
terrorists!

These [unclear], dopers and killers want to be restored to their 
position in the gang. Result? Various murders. Also, federal 
grand jury witnesses are being blown away. Such as? On Christmas 
Eve, '93, a businessman was assassinated on the corner of 87th 
and Stony Island, on the south side. The area is not the usual 
turf of the El Rukns, but the El Rukns have let it be known that 
anyone who witnessed the hit will be likewise dead.

At the time, the press took no interest in the murder of this 
potential key witness. The federal authorities are not protecting 
the federal grand jury witnesses. Why? Well, one reason is the 
new U.S. attorney here wants the matter restricted to perjury.

Yet Hogan and others in the office also reportedly took bribes 
not to prosecute criminals in other cases. As known to the 
Justice Department, there is a ring of some 6 lawyers and non- 
lawyers who have bribed and blackmailed federal prosecutors here. 
Such as in the criminal case against officers and others of 
American Heritage savings and loan. Corruptly let go was 
Christian Henning(?) jr., nephew of Paul Marchinkas(?) -- head of 
the Vatican Bank and [alleged] mafia money-washer.

Among those in the ring are reportedly known fixers such as 
Edward J. Lasniak(?) and Victor Katchitory(?). Failure to protect 
federal grand jury witnesses is not new. As we pointed out in a 
similar case in the federal district court here, 41 federal grand 
jury witnesses were murdered in 1991 and 1992 during the special 
federal grand jury hearing charges of theft of high technology by 
top officials in the Reagan and Bush administrations. Known as 
the Inslaw affair, it was covered up by former federal district 
judge Nicholas Bowa(?), a defendant in the civil suit charged 
with obstructing justice. High level treason was committed in 
selling the technology to sworn enemies of the United States.

In the Inslaw case, many of the grand jury witnesses were 
murdered -- get this -- by an FBI agent working for Bowa and 
identified, by us, in court.

In the Hogan affair, some suspect Chicago police are being 
blackmailed by corrupt federal officials here to drag their feet 
in investigating the murder of the federal grand jury witnesses. 
The Hogan mess has the potential of wrecking the entire federal 
bureaucracy here, implicating corrupt federal judges here, IRS 
and customs officials and federal prosecutors -- all reportedly 
involved in an apparatus known as the "Dope Underground" 
involving runaway corruption not limited to narcotics. [CfD -- It 
may well be that history is repeating itself here: Just as 
federal prohibition laws during the 1920s led to widespread 
institutional corruption, so too the so-called "war on drugs" 
seemingly has given us similar side-effects.]

Among those that should be facing indictments should be Hogan's 
supervisors, including Thomas [unclear], Joan Stafford(?), and 
former chief federal prosecutor himself Fred Boreman(?) -- as 
well as top IRS officials here who are secret partners in various 
criminal enterprises.

Some indictments are expected on or about January 20th.

In Chicago, see us on cable TV, channel 21, 9 pm every Monday 
evening in January.

Play it again: Bagmen and Fixers. [312] 731-1505. New message 
Monday; we change it several times a week. Donations appreciated. 
Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, 
Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the latest on courts, banks, 
espionage agencies, political assassinations...



