
Skolnick COMMENTARY #001
========================

Hi. Sherman Skolnik, Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 
9800 Oglesby.

At one time the Pope owned three major banks in America: New 
York, Chicago and San Francisco.

In New York, St. Peter's banker, Michael Saddona (sp?) ran the 
Franklin National Bank as a huge gambling device and money 
laundry. Result? The bank collapsed in 1974 and was taken over by 
a group of European banks with the Vatican losing *part* of their 
grip.

Saddona was sent to an American prison for fraudulent banking. 
Later he was extradited to Italy on more charges. He began 
talking too much. The Pope silenced him in an Italian jail -- 
*murdered* with a poisoned cup of coffee. (By the way, the same 
method they used to murder Chicago mayor Harold Washington, a 
poisoned cup of coffee, and replaced him with the Vatican's man 
of trust, Richie Daley.)

Saddona and his confederate successors also ran, for the Pope, 
the Continental Bank of Chicago. All the Catholic churches of the 
Western Hemisphere run their money through that bank. After all, 
the archbishop of Chicago is also the treasurer, for the Church, 
for all of North America, Central America and South America.

In the early 1980s, Continental Bank, through their holding 
company owed some $20 billion to the Japanese, including their 
mafia, the yakusa (sp?) who had put in slight capital. 
Continental could not repay, so the Japanese in May, 1984, 
started a run on the bank and its holding company, Continental 
Illinois. Result? A consortium of banks, headed by J.P. Morgan 
and Company, took over -- with the Pope losing *part*, but not 
all, of his control.

The Morgan banks are the front for British royalty and the Queen, 
who for over 100 years always had a director sitting to supervise 
Continental. Through Continental Bank, however, the Vatican 
continued to oversee Panama's General Noriega, and his joint, 
secret business deals with George Bush. So, when the U.S. invaded 
Panama, Noriega naturally sought refuge in the Vatican Embassy 
and branch of the Vatican Bank. The U.S. military used 
psychological warfare, including super hard-rock music to drive 
him out.

The Justice Department's record grabbers have descended on 
Continental Bank, seeking to destroy incriminating records that 
would put President Bush in the same jail cell with his CIA 
business partner, General Noriega. By the way, Panama, under 
General Noriega was the only country in the Western Hemisphere 
run by a dark-skinned person. Noriega was popular with the bulk 
of those *in* Panama, who are people of color. It was only the 
small, white aristocracy *there* that wanted him removed. They 
used the branches of worldwide banks there to skim off loot from 
dope and gun running. Noriega was really just a small-time, semi- 
independent tyrant.

Helping supervise Continental Bank has been the Vatican's man of 
trust, Chicago federal appeals judge Walter Cummings (sp?), for 
many years also chief judge and major stockholder of the bank. 
Judge Cummings steers cases in his court to fellow banker/judges 
-- which is most of them.

For many years the major owners of Bank of America and their 
holding company were the Jesuits and the Vatican, and their long- 
time cronies, the Rothschilds (sp?). Like Continental Bank up 
until 1984, they owed tens of billions of dollars to the Japanese 
and the yakusa, who own most of the other sizeable banks in 
California. In the late 1980s, Bank of America was faced with a 
run, so they have quietly given over most of the control to the 
Japanese.

Although the Pope has lost much of the control of the three banks 
in America, the pontiff continues as the major owner in nuclear 
power utility firms, including Commonwealth Edison and Florida 
Power.

See us on Chicago cable channel 21, 9 pm Monday evening, Aug. 
23rd.

Play it again. Corruption in the federal prosecutors 
office.  (312) 731-1505

New message Sunday, we change it several times a week. Donations 
appreciated.

Citizens Committee to Clean Up the Courts
9800 South Oglesby
Chicago, Illinois  60617

-----------------------------------------------------------------

The number I called was (312) 731-1100. I have an alternate 
listing for them at (312) 731-1505.



