

Skolnick COMMENTARY #023
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnick, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts 
[CCCC], 9800 Oglesby.

A big cover-up with congressman Dan Rostenkowski of Chicago, 
arranged by the corrupt IRS, the Justice Department, and the 
White House.

Clinton, while Governor, supervised a CIA operation in a forest 
in western Arkansas called the Mena airport. It was used for dope 
and gun smuggling on a mass scale. Implicated also were George 
Bush as vice-President and Reagan as President, and Ollie North.

Governor Clinton told the state law enforcement to "look the 
other way." Used were several public and private funds, including 
the Arkansas Development Finance Authority, Jackson Stephens and 
his bond brokerage and banking empire. Also reportedly used: A 
company called Park-O-Meter.

The hundreds of millions of dollars per month from cocaine and 
such was reportedly funneled through Garfield Ridge Trust and 
Savings Bank of Chicago. The bank has been owned and operated by 
congressman Rostenkowski and his cronies, who have commented on 
the bank's reported criminality for some 20 years now.

>From the bank, the money was washed through the commodity, 
currency, and options markets here: The Chicago Board of Trade, 
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, and the Chicago Board Options 
Exchange. (Traders on these markets have told us that they expect 
a scandal. And the Chicago IRS "torpedoed" their own 
investigation of this.)

Over the years, "Rosty" (as the congressman has been called) has 
received bribes of tens of thousands of dollars from these 
markets. Some bribes they attempted to disguise as so-called 
"lecture fees." Did "Rosty" ever give some of these speeches for 
them, huh?

As head of the tax writing committee of Congress, "Rosty" put 
through laws so quietly they were considered private laws; making 
the speculators here exempt from paying taxes on little-known 
market devices such as "hedges" and "straddles." And, of course, 
the crooked IRS in Chicago received part of the bribes to cover 
this all up.

"Rosty's" two daughters reportedly worked at the Board of Trade 
(Oh yeah?) but were seldom seen there. They reportedly 
facilitated the cocaine money laundering.

"Rosty" was also one of the main culprits regarding the bribery 
of Congress by the Bank of Credit and Commerce International 
[BCCI]. This criminal bank supposedly went under in 1991, *but* 
it continues, however, as Chemical Bank Group -- successor to 
First National Bank of Cicero, run by Paul Marcinkas, the 
gangster who headed the Vatican Bank.

Using "cook books" for BCCI, the commodity, currency, and options 
markets here bought 25% of Congress -- *including* congressman 
Rostenkowski and Company.

The crooked mastermind of "Rosty's" election campaign in 1994 has 
been Jeremiah Joyce, a little-known business partner of Chicago 
mayor Richie Daley. Joyce, and Daley, are the secret owners of 
Glenrock Company, construction supplies. By the way, if you want 
to be a state highway contractor, you'd better get your cement- 
pouring compounds from them! And, you'd better pay "kickbacks." 
Glenrock Company reportedly does not keep proper records for the 
IRS!

"Rosty" is willing to "take the fall" on relatively minor charges 
[in order] to continue the mass media cover-up of Mena airport, 
cocaine and guns, his crooked bank, the big dealers in the 
Chicago markets, and the corrupt tax collectors in the White 
House and the Justice Department.

(By the way, if he doesn't "stay shut," I suppose they'd shoot 
him.)

They'd need a very large jail cell for Rostenkowski, and his pal 
Richie Daley, Bill and Hillary Clinton, the head of the IRS in 
Chicago, the U.S. attorney general, and the pilots on the markets 
here!

Just another story, suppressed by the liars and whores of the 
press.

In Chicago, see us on cable tv, channel 21, 9 pm [cst] most 
Monday evenings; not every Monday.

Play it again: Richie Daley and the Dope Business in Chicago.

New message Sunday; we change it several times a week.

Donations appreciated. Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the 
Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the 
latest on courts, banks, espionage agencies, political 
assassinations, and the news media. On 24 hours a day.



