
--SOVIET SCALAR ELECTROMAGNETIC WEAPONS--
 
     This briefing presents the basic concepts of Soviet Scalar 
electromagnetic weapons, some of the major types available, and evidence of 
their widespread testing. 
 
- Scalar Electromagnetics is Electrogravitation -
 
     Scalar electromagnetics is an extension of present electromagnetics (EM) 
to include gravitation. That is, a unified electrogravitation, and, what is 
more important, it is a unified engineering theory. Its basis was discovered 
by Nikola Tesla. 

     In the scalar EM extension, EM field energy can be turned into
gravitational field energy and vice versa. This exchange can be patterned and 
localized, in specific areas and objects. Such a controlled change of 
electromagnetics to gravitation is not possible in the normal EM or physics 
presently taught in Western textbooks. However, the bits and pieces of the 
theory have been scattered through the physics literature for some time, but 
no orthodox western scientist seems to have realized that these anomalous 
portions could be integrated into a startling new physics. Unorthodox 
experimenters, inventors, and scientists have made discoveries in this arena 
for several decades, but again have not realized the exact implications or
the precise manner in which their results could be combined with present 
electrical physics. 
 
- Fer-De-Lance -
 
     Such sluggishness is certainly not present in the Soviet Union. For
over three decades, the Soviet Union has been developing electrogravitation
and app,ying it to develop strange new s%cret weapons of incredible power
and capability. They have sustained the largest weapons development program
ever launched by any nation, and they have kept it effectively hidden from 
prying western eyes. I have called this program "Fer-De-Lance", after the 
deadly South American pit viper of the same name. 

     The dreaded fer-de-lance is a snake of great agility and lethal effect.
It often ambushes its hapless prey, and strikes unexpectedly and without 
warning. Its first sudden strike is usually lethal to its victim, which 
promptly expires in writhing agony. Since the Soviet development of scalar EM 
weapons has been designed for the same purpose, the name seems appropriate. 

     The equivalent effort of about seven Manhattan projects has been poured
into fer-de-lance by the Soviets, and the program has been successful almost 
beyond imagination. The eerie weapons are now developed, deployed, and
tested.  The ambush has been completed; Fer-de-Lance is coiled and ready to
strike. 
 


--ENERGETICS AND DIRECTED ENERGY WEAPONS (DEW'S)--
 
     The ordinary Soviet name for this type of weapons science is
energetics. In the west that term is believed to be associated with
conventional directed energy weapons (DEWs) such as particle beam weapons,
lasers, radio-frequency (RF) directed energy devices, etc. The Soviets do not
limit the term in this way. 

     Western scientists are familiar only with directed energy weapons
where fragments, masses, photons, or particles travel through space and
contact the target to deliver their effects. Hence in their thinking they
limit the Soviet term "energetics" to the type of weapons they themselves
understand -- exotic but normal weapons using energy or mass traveling 
through space to impact a target. 

     However, it is possible to focus the potential for the effects of a
weapon through spacetime itself, in a manner so that mass and energy do not
"travel through space" from the transmitter to the target at all. Instead,
ripples and patterns in the fabric of spacetime itself are manipulated to
meet and interfere in and at the local spacetime of some distant target. 
There interference of these ripple patterns creates the desired energetic 
effect (hence the term energetics) directly in and through the target itself, 
emerging from the very spacetime (vacuum) in which the target is imbedded at 
its distant location. As used by the Soviets, energetics refers to these 
eerie new superweapons, as well as to the more mundane DEWs known to the 
west. 

     As a consequence of the Soviet breakthrough and decades of feverish
development, monstrous strategic weapons undreamed of in the West are
already in Soviet hands. A noose is slowly and steadily being tightened about
our throats, and it is already the 11th hour. 
 
--THE SOVIETS USE A DECEPTION PLAN--
 
     Concomitant with this supersecret development program, the Soviets
developed and implemented an elaborate deception plan to conceal these 
startling weapons and their nature from Western eyes until it is too late. 
Soviet deception has been so successful that even when Western scientists are 
confronted with the actual tests of these weapons directly over their heads, 
they do not recognize the weaponry nor the nature of the effects produced. 
    
     As early as January 1960, Nikita Khrushchev announced the Soviet
development of a new, fantastic weapon. 

     On April 10 1963 one of the first new superweapons operationally
deployed was used to destroy  the U.S.S. Thresher atomic submarine
underwater, off the east coast of the U.S. The next day, April 11, 1963 the 
same deployed superweapon was utilized in a different mode to produce a giant 
underwater explosion in the ocean over the Puerto Rican Trench, 100 miles 
north of Puerto Rico. 

     Over the years, various aircraft were interfered with or downed as
tests of these Soviet weapons. A particular case involved the mysterious
loss of F-111s in the Vietnam conflict. At least one downed F-111 crew was
recovered in the subsequent prisoner of war exchange. On that aircraft all
electrical systems were in difficulty simultaneously. This was probably due 
to special Soviet teams converting some North Vietnamese SA-2 missile system 
radars to the scalar EM mode, and employing "scalar beam" interference to 
produce spurious EM noise throughout the electrical and electronic systems of 
the aircraft. 


     In late April/early May of 1985, the entire armada of Soviet strategic
scalar EM superweapons was activated as a special celebration of the 40th 
anniversary of the end of W.W.II. Activation of this armada (which probably 
contained over 100 giant weapons), together with 27 giant power systems and a 
large number of command and control transmissions, was monitored on an 
advanced, proprietary detection system by Frank Golden. After the gigantic 
strategic exercise, which lasted several days, most of the weapons and power 
sources were once again stood down to "standby." 

     The NASA shuttle launches provided an convenient opportunity for Soviet
testing of these superweapons in a launch phase ABM mode, where a launched 
missile can be detected and destroyed shortly after liftoff. At first, 
electromagnetic pulse (EMP) bursts on the early shuttle trajectory were 
deliberately delayed in time, to prevent actual destruction of the target and 
avoid alerting the U.S. that something unusual was happening. 

     The shuttle launch of November 26, 1985 saw a particularly significant
test of this kind. In this case, a very loud "sonic boom" or explosion
occurred over the launch site 12 minutes after shuttle liftoff, when the 
shuttle was already away and downrange. At least two previous shuttle 
launches had also been used as pseudotargets, with delayed booms occurring 
over the launch site well behind the vehicles. 

     After lack of U.S. reaction to these tests showed that the U.S. still
had no knowledge of the new technology and did not even recognize its
employment, the Soviets apparently decided to proceed with tests where the 
target would actually be destroyed. 

     On December 12, 1985 the same Soviet weapon tested against the NASA
shuttle launches deliberately interfered with the controls of an Arrow DC-8
taking off from Gander Air Force Base, Newfoundland. At an altitude of 100 
feet, the aircraft--carrying over 250 U.S. soldiers and civilian crew 
members lost power and sank into the ground tail-low, killing everyone on 
board.  Three Canadian witnesses to the crash were interviewed over the 
Canadian Broadcast Corporation's television news on April 8,1986 at 10 p.m. 
No flame or smoke issued from the plane before its descent and crash. However 
the aircraft was seen to be mysteriously glowing with a yellow glow. That is 
a signature of the use of a scalar howitzer in the "continuous EM emergence" 
mode, similar to the manner in which the F-111s were downed in Vietnam. In 
short, the DC-8s electrical systems were interfered with ny electromagnetic 
noise created throughout the spacetime occupied by the aircraft. The powerful 
charge created in and around the aircraft also apparently caused the loss of 
two engines, one after the other. With its controls ineffective, and its 
power drastically reduced, the aircraft sank to earth, still in its "tail 
down" configuration from takeoff, and crashed and burned. The "yellow glow" 
was a corona due to the acquisition of a high electrical charge by the skin 
of the aircraft. 

     Other factors contributing to the crash may have been reduced lift due
to poor engine maintenance, increased weight of the aircraft due to icing, 
and heavy loading. Still, no one has recognized the significance of the 
"yellow glow" or what it implies, or the possible connection between the loss 
of the aircraft and previous Soviet testing of a Launch Phase ABM system 
against U.S. shuttle launches... 
 


     As of September 1987, the last two Air Force Titan 34-D missiles fired 
from Vandenburg Air Force Base in California have blown up shortly after 
launch. The first one blew up on Aug. 28, 1985 just after lift-off. That loss 
had been attributed to failure of a high powered fuel pump, causing a massive 
oxidizer leak and a smaller fuel leak. The second Titan loss occurred on 
April 18, 1986 when the missile blew up 5 seconds after lift off. Its loss is 
still under investigation and no determination of cause has been made. 
Apparently the shuttle and the Titan presently provide the only viable launch 
vehicles for launching U.S. "spy" satellites. The loss of these sensitive 
satellites--if indeed they constituted the payloads--cannot help but be 
damaging to our strategic capability. According to the Los Angeles Times 
(in 1986) the single remaining KH-11 satellite was launched in December 1984 
and, with an expected life of two to three years, could stop functioning 
later this year. 

     Whether or not significant Woodpecker grid activity existed in the 
vicinity of the Titan launch of August 1985 is unknown at this time. However, 
significant activity in the grid definitely occurred before the April 18 
Titan disaster and on the same day. 

     On Easter Sunday, Mar. 30,1986 engineer Ron Cole observed significant 
correlated with Soviet Woodpecker measurements. On April 18, T.E Bearden, 
perhaps the head of SEM research today, observed traces of a cloud radial 
over Huntsville, Alabama and took photographs of it. Preliminary reports from 
Thousand Oaks Ca. indicate extensive grid activity again on April 18, the day 
the second Titan exploded. 

     At least the second of these two missile destructions shortly after 
launch is suspicious, since the grid positively was active during that time. 
Also, a clear trail of Launch Phase ABM system indicators exists back to the 
massive scalar exercise of April/May 1985. The first Titan explosion in Aug. 
1985 thus falls within the Soviets "now lets test them against the U.S. 
launch vehicles" period. The second Titan loss follows highly suspicious 
losses of the Arrow DC-8 on Dec. 12, 1985 and the Challenger on Jan. 28, 
1986. The same Soviet weapon that destroyed those Ñ#gets may have also 
destroyed one or both of the critical Titans. 

     The Soviets also have been able to significantly engineer the weather 
over North America for more than a decade without being found out. They have 
tested a fantastic range of anti-ballistic missile (ABM) defense weapons for 
over two decades, and no one is the wiser in the West. 

     As previously stated, prior to the end of November, 1985, at least three 
"wet-run" tests of a Soviet "launch phase ABM system" against actual U.S. 
shuttle launches were made directly over Cape Canaveral itself, and still no 
one recognized what was happening or what sort of weapon was being tested. On 
December 12, destruction of the Arrow DC-8 in Newfoundland produce no 
indications that the Americans and Canadians knew anything about the nature 
of the weapon possibly used. 

     Accordingly, after a sufficient wait to test our reactions (if any), the 
Soviets prepared to actually destroy a shuttle after its launch... 

 

--DESTRUCTION OF THE CHALLENGER, JANUARY, 1986--
 
     As the whole world knows, on January 28, 1986 the Challenger was 
launched from Cape Canaveral Florida after exposure to undesirable weather 
conditions, and disastrously exploded shortly after launch. The evidence 
seems to indicate that , as the rising vehicle was stressed, one end of its 
right booster broke loose, twisting away and into the main fuel tank, causing 
rupture, spillage of the fuel, and catastrophic explosion. Several other 
anomalies still exist however, and it is clear that a problem existed with at 
least one of the booster seals. All seven astronauts aboard the flight were 
killed in the fiery destruction of the vehicle. 

    Of course no one had recognized that the Soviets had already tested a 
launch-phase anti-ballistic missile (LPABM) system against three of our 
previous shuttle launches. These "wet-runs" used a deliberate "time-offset" 
to delay the explosive emergence of electromagnetic energy in a launched 
shuttle's location along its trajectory. The delayed test shots resulted in 
very large "booms" above the launch site after the shuttle was safely out of 
the area, but did not destroy the shuttles themselves. For example, the 
delayed shot-boom occurred 12 minutes after the evening launch of Nov. 26, 
1985. Even a marker beacon (large light in the sky) was utilized on that 
launch shortly after lift-off. The marker beacon was photographed. In 
addition another photograph taken in a time sequence shows another sudden 
streak of light coming down and ending in a burst of light. This was probably 
a spacially-offset test of the "pulse mode" for destroying the shuttle. The 
"light burst" would have been detected in the Soviet Union and scored against 
its intended offset position. However, another mechanism was used to cause 
the destruction of the shuttle itself. 

     On Jan. 1, 1986 the presence of a metal softening signal added on to the 
Soviet LPABM systems scalar EM transmissions was detected by a surprised 
Frank Golden. The metal softening ability of the detected signal was 
experimentally verified by him at that time. Golden also locally nullified 
the action of the scalar EM signal in a test, rather conclusively 
establishing (1) that it existed and (2) what it was. The signal was 
apparently being prepared for use against an upcoming U.S. shuttle launch. 

     Just prior to the launch of the shuttle in late January, 1986, the 
Soviets accomplished significant weather engineering over the U.S. The jet 
stream was severely bent southward in the middle of the U.S., bending right-
ward again to move across the Florida panhandle. Icy cold air from Canada was 
drawn far down, into Florida and onto the Challenger sitting on it launch 
pad. This exposure to cold outside its tested range was probably an 
additional factor contributing to the Challengers failure. Positive 
signatures of the Soviet weather engineering and jet stream manipulation 
were observed and photographed by several persons, particularly in Alabama 
and California... 
 

     On January 28, 1986, the Soviet scalar EM weapon system effects were 
sharply localized in the launch zone. Localization involved higher 
frequencies being present; these are quite painful to small brains--whose 
hemispheres act as a scalar interferometer and detector--such as in birds. 
As commented upon by national news commentators, strangely the birds were not 
flying that morning. Indeed, they were staying down on the ground or avoiding 
the area, since the sky over the area was painful to them. 

     As Challenger rose, the metal softening signal would have been 
experienced in and around the boosters shortly after ignition, since the 
booster flame acts as a special "ion-plasma" tuner/detector for the scalar 
signal. The effect of such a local signal is to "charge mass in the immediate 
vicinity" with the particular scalar resonance signal. 

     The ill fated Challenger was doomed. After ignition, the booster flame 
acted as as a ionic plasma detector/amplifier for the metal softening signal 
on the Soviet Woodpecker grid. The metal in and around the booster flame was 
slowly and steadily weakening due to a charge up with the metal softening 
pattern. This contributed to booster leakage from the already cold damaged 
seal. The leaking booster poured out smoke and later flame, contributing to 
the impending disaster. 

     Substantial winds and air turbulence over the site increased the stress 
on the Challenger as it rose through this region. This also contributed to 
the disaster and may have been deliberately created there by Soviet Weather 
engineering. 

     As the Challenger stressed, eventually one or more weakened mounts gave 
way, partially freeing the end of the right booster. Another anomalous flame 
or light was observed on the vehicle, and may have represented a very small 
additional "pulse mode energy form" produced from the weapon that was already 
attacking the Challenger. The booster oscillated, rotating into the tank and 
rupturing it. Contact of the escaping liquid fuel and the flame resulted in a 
fiery explosion, destroying the vehicle and killing those on board... 
 
      By creating excess cold exposure to the shuttle, inducing metal 
softening in and around the ignited booster, and possibly adding a deliberate 
"intensely hot spot", THE SOVIETS CAUSED THE CHALLENGER TO WEAKEN AND DESTROY 
ITSELF SHORTLY AFTER LAUNCH, IN SO SUBTLE A FASHION THAT NASA SCIENTISTS 
WOULD NOT SUSPECT WHAT HAD ACTUALLY CAUSED THE MISHAP. THE SOVIETS HAD ALSO 
PREVIOUSLY WITHDRAWN ALL THEIR TRAWLERS AND SHIPS WHICH NORMALLY SHADOW A 
SHUTTLE LAUNCH, TO PREVENT ANY SUGGESTION OF SOVIET PRESENCE NEAR OR 
INVOLVEMENT IN THE CATASTROPHIC ACCIDENT. 

      A few days later, sporadically intense "high frequency localization 
signals" were still present on the grid, at least one hinge-point at 
Birmingham, Alabama confirmed this. From 1-4 February 1986, many birds 
inadvertently flew into the zone when an intense breakout occurred, and birds 
fell dead from the sky in substantial numbers.... 
 
Next:
-Technological Surprise and a New Hiroshima-
 
(Continued)

