
      Sadly, the bureaucratic smugness of orthodox Western scientists has 
materially assisted the Soviet deception process. Most Western managerial 
scientists -particularly in weapons development activities - have continued 
to view the Soviets as ignorant peasants, still trying to clean the mud off 
their boots. This view is of course, Totally untrue and unwarranted. 

      It takes only a few examples to refute this attitude. In nonlinear 
mathematics, engineering and science, the Soviets have led their Western 
counterparts since the beginning. The electromagnetic pulse (EMP) effect of a 
nuclear explosion appeared in the ordinary Soviet scientific literature 
before Western scientists were even aware that te effect existed. The Soviets 
continue to lead the world in explosive welding, titanium welding and 
forming, etc. While the Soviet scientists exhibit little inclination to build 
good washing machines, they certainly do produce state of the art 
technology-- and beyond-- in any area in which they focus their main efforts. 
(We do lead the Soviets in some areas such as computers hardware, computer 
software, miniaturization, etc.)

      Once before, a modern nation, the United States, developed a mighty 
weapon in secrecy and used it to force a powerful foe, Japan, to its knees... 
The mindbending atomic blows to Hiroshima, and Nagasaki, showed once and for 
all that in the modern age technological surprise can prove instantly 
disastrous. Yet in our scientific arrogance, we have assumed that it could 
never happen to us, and that the "secret weapon" scenario will never be 
repeated. On the contrary, it HAS happened again, someone else has done it, 
and it has happened to us. 

       It has also become fashionable in the West to believe that all the 
laws of physics are already discovered. We assume we know all of them. While 
we have been pridefully crowing this tune, the Soviets have been steadily new 
laws in secret, as well as new ways to circumvent the old laws. 
 Our defense is strategic, we rely on our offense. Our huge nuclear arsenal..
If this offense were nullified or destroyed by Soviet secret weapons, we 
would be powerless to prevent our own destruction and Soviet domination of 
our world.

       We have been viewing ourselves as indestructible, confident in the 
strength of our defense. Yet literally our defense has been stripped from us. 
Indeed Soviet energetics weapons are now capable of destroying our defense, 
our homeland, our armed forces in the field, and our population, quickly and 
efficiently. We have a new gap of monumental proportions: not a missile gap, 
not  a submarine or bomber gap, and not even a particle beam or laser gap. 
We have a "Scalar Electromagnetics or Electrogravitation" gap.....
 
 
       He that has ears, let him hear.

       Here is the secret of antigravity.

       The "electrical charge" of a charged particle-- such as one of the 
charged particles of an atom or one of the protons of its nucleus-- 
represents a difference in flux intensity (potential) between the local 
particle and its ambient vacuum.  Its the continual bleed-off of 
gravitational charge as electrical charge.  If that bleed off is reversed or 
stopped, a drastic effect on the gravitational charge ensues. The 5-potential 
and the 5-charge have become 4-G-potential and 4-d-charge respectively.  Thus 
"charging" an object with its scalar EM pattern charges it gravitationally.  
Now the only "bleed off channel" is through the 4-G force field. Further, 
in a nucleus the nucleons continually back and forth between proton and 
neutron, so the electrical charge is "spread" throughout the nucleus and 
shared by all the nucleons. 

       Further, each element (actually each isotope) has its own unique 
"ensemble pattern" of Fourier expansion scalar frequencies, amplitudes, ect. 
This pattern can, of course, be reproduced artificially and transmitted by 
modified EM transmitters). There is, however, a sort of "master key" scalar 
EM (EG) pattern for nucleons (protons and neutrons which are changing back 
and forth into each other by exchange of virtual charge currents). 

        If one reverses the charge by inverting this pattern, and then 
"charges up a mass with the inverted charge," to the external observer the 
charging mass just gets lighter and lighter, and its inertia gets less and 
less. Eventually it seems (to him) to acquire negative mass and negative 
inertia, and just accelerate away from the earth. the object falls upward 
instead of falling downwards.

       There are also some weird time effects; that object can be moving 
slower through time than the laboratory observer, or even be moving backwards 
through time in respect to the laboratory observer. (Don't believe everything 
they taught you in relativity; none of those guys ever had engineered a 
single general relativistic situation. &othing they teach in GR is based on 
direct experiment. Most of what they teach has already experimentally proven 
to be in error. 


       This is the concept for a scalar EG detector for a scalar EG waves. 
This is the Bendini scalar wave detector, adapted from an original concept by 
Dea and Faretto. 

       The idea is quite simple: install a very powerful bar magnet inside a
grounded Faraday cage. Then install an open-ended coil longitudally above the
magnet so that a line through the longitudal axis of the magnet passes 
through the longitudal axis of the coil above it. The open end of the coil 
does not touch the magnet. 

        Connect the other end of the coil to a variable tuning capacitor, so 
that the coil and the capacitor form a tunable, series-L-C-oscillatory 
circuit. The output of the capacitor is connected to a transistorized 
preamplifier inside the cage. A tuning shaft for the capacitor is very 
carefully placed through a small hole in the shield to allow tuning from 
outside. 

         The output of the preamp passes through a small hole in the shield, 
through a shielded cable, to an adjacent oscilloscope. The cable shield is 
also grounded t a reference ground potential. 
 
         The theory is as follows: Suppose a normal EM wave appears inside 
the cage, above the magnet or closely adjacent thereto. In that case a 
coupled oscillation appears in the field of the magnet, and this oscillation 
is coupled to the coil immediately above it. If the oscillation is within the 
bandwidth of the tuned series LC circuit, detection occurs. This is amplified 
by the preamp and passed to the oscilloscope, where it is displayed on the 
scope. 

         Note that the detector detects normal EM wave. Now our problem is: 
How do we get an EG wave to be detected? And how do we assure that we do not 
detect ordinary EM waves from the outside?  Actually this is simple. Ordinary 
waves (except for quite low frequency) will be grounded out by the Faraday 
shield, and will not penetrate the cage. Thus these normal EM waves cannot 
enter the cage and appear above the magnet. They will not be detected. Scalar 
EG waves, on the other hand, will enter the cage since they do not couple to 
conduction electrons in the metal of the cage. Above the pole of the magnet, 
spacetime is locally bent.  After all, a pole is a magnetostatic scalar 
potential, which is a part of the conglomerate called "G-potential." The pole 
represents an increase (or decrease, depending on whether it is a north or a 
south pole) in the magnetostatic component of the local G-potential. This is a 
curvature of spacetime. An EG wave entering this region adds a varying 
component component of magnetostatic G-potential, which bleeds off in the coil 
as an ordinary EM wave. 
        
         Another way to view the detector is to model the EG wave as a 
longitudal wave, and an ordinary EM wave as a transverse wave. When the EG 
wave enters the curved spacetime region above the magnet, to the coil (the 
"observer" in this case!) the longitudal aspect of the EG wave appears to be 
rotating back and forth, so that an oscillating transverse component is 
present. This transverse component appears to the coil as an ordinary EM 
field, and so the LC circuit detects it if it is in the proper frequency 
band. 

         Yet another way to view the situation is to realize that an EG wave 
entering the magnet results in an oscillating component added to the 
magnetostatic scalar potential (pole strength) of t8e magnet. Accordingly, 
the magnet is a receiver for scalar waves, which are detected to "bleed-off" 
as an oscillation of the magnetic field strength of the magnet. Coupling of 
this oscillating magnetic field to the coil creates an oscillating current 
flow into the capacitor. This oscillates the voltage input to the preamp, 
which amplifies and feeds the signal to the oscilloscope for display. 
 
      
         It is important to remember that a magnetostatic potential and an 
electrostatic potential can be oscillated by a scalar EG wave. By placing a 
magnetic material inside a Faraday cage, the oscillation of the magnetostatic 
scalar potential (pole strength of the magnet) can be used as the EG 
detecting mechanism. By placing a chargeable material inside a Faraday cage, 
the oscillation of the electrostatic scalar potential can be detected. 
(Possible examples of the latter type detectors are given by Hodowanec,"Radio 
Electronics," April 1986.) 

         Note also that one may detect waves at one reference level and not 
at another. Changing the bias on the zero-reference ground of the Bendini 
detector affects the detection. To look inside a normal EM carrier (such as 
the Soviet Woodpecker carrier) and see what scalar signals are riding upon 
it, the carrier may be used to bias the reference ground of the Bendini 
detector. To produce a spectrum analyzer, simply use additional series 
resonant LC tuning circuits in parallel (put multiple taps on the coil, and 
wire each tap to a separate tuning capacitor of different capacitance). 
Again, varying the zero reference level is important, as is varying  the 
strength of the magnet. Frank Golden has also invented an excellent series of 
scalar wave detectors based on quite different proprietary principles.

         The bottom line is: we can indeed rigorously detect and measure 
scalar EG waves. When one considers the large sums of money presently being 
spent to bury large aluminum cylinders etc. in an attempt to detect 
gravitational waves, one wonders why some funds could not be released to a 
few unorthodox researchers by the National Academy of Sciences to fund the 
proven creation and detection of electrogravitational waves... 

(Continued)
