

      Here is explained a new kind of resonance: scalar EM resonance, or 
electrogravitational resonance. 

      First, imagine we have a standard resonant cavity. In this cavity we 
have a resonant EM wave moving back and forth. In accordance with convention, 
the E-field vector and the B-field vector are at right angles in this moving 
wave front. As the wave moves back and forth, the vectors vary back and 
forth; however, at any one point between the walls, the two vectors always 
have the same value. Thus our resonant EM wave forms a standing wave in the 
cavity. 

      Now imagine that a second wave front, precisely like the first and of 
the same frequency, is superposed over the first one and travels with it. 
This second wave -- the "antiwave" -- has its force vectors 180 degrees out 
of phase with the force vectors of the reference wave. Hence the E-fields 
and B-fields of the two superposed waves always sum to vector zeros, anywhere 
in the cavity. To an external observer, the cavity contains no ordinary 
electromagnetic force fields, hence no ordinary EM energy. 

      However the energy density of a single EM sine wave in vacuum is given 
by:

 density  2
 [ E  +  B  ]/8pi
 
      This energy density is always positive. Hence the energy density of the 
two waves at any point X between the walls is equal to: 

 
    2    2
 [ E  + B ]/4pi
 
   where
 
E=E(x) ; B=B(x)
 
      Thus the energy density of vacuum varies with X. But, rigorously, since 
the resultant E and B fields are zero, this describes a standing 
gravitational wave. Hence we have a standing EG wave existing in the cavity. 
This is an example of scalar resonance. Rigorously the cavity has mass and 
inertia, to an outside observer, as a result of the two warps in spacetime it 
contains. 

      Note that in one half cycle the energy density of vacuum is greater 
than ambient, and in the other half cycle it is less. In the region of one 
half cycle, time flows at a faster rate than to the ambient observer, and in 
the other half cycle time flows at a slower rate than to the ambient 
observer.  One half cycle appears to contain negative electrical charge, and 
the other appears to contain positive charge. 

      One half cycle appears to contain a north pole (positive magnetostatic 
scalar potential), and the other half cycle appears to contain a south pole 
(negative magnetostatic scalar potential). 

      Perhaps n/w one can begin to understand why a continuously accelerated 
orbital electron in the atom does not radiate EM energy, completely in 
violation of Maxwell's equations. The electron is naught but a complex aspect 



      Scalar resonance is not in the conventional textbook.

      Scalar resonance is a particular zero summed multi-resonance, 
electromagnetically, so that it does not act in an electromagnetic manner. 

      A scalar resonance is a standing electromagnetic wave. It can be made
electrically, but is not electrical in behavior.

      In any scalar resonance, spacetime is curved, and it is the magnitude 
(and direction) of this spacetime curvature that is oscillating in "standing 
wave" fashion. 

      In respect to stress of the vacuum medium, one half of a standing sine 
wave of scalar resonance is tensile; the other half is compressive. However, 
this is with respect to the local ambient stress of the vacuum. 

      "Mass" of a particle is just a characteristic exhibited by a trapped 
scalar resonance. Usually this trapping is done by the "spin" of the 
individual particle. 

      The concept of "mass" may be compared with the concept of 
"capacitance." That is, a mass is an accumulator for scalar waves; that is, 
for scalar resonances. It is continually being "charged" and "discharged" 
by absorption and emission of scalar waves from and to the ambient vacuum 
scalar wave flux. 

      Indeed the magnitude of a mass may be defined in terms of the absolute 
value of this "switching" (absorption = switch in; emission = switch out) 
rate. For details on this see (Bearden, T.E. "Quinton/Perception Physics: A 
Theory of Existence, Perception, and Physical Phenomena," March, 1973, AD 
763210, available through NTIS.) 

      In the normal linear spacetime, the "charging" and "discharging" are 
equal in all directions; so the mass exhibited in any direction is the same. 

      With respect to an "external observer's" equilibrium flux, a moving 
object encounters an increased amount of flux rate along its line of motion, 
just as a moving object in a rainstorm encounters more raindrops per second 
in the direction of its path, than does a stationary object. Encountering 
increased scalar wave flux (with respect to the external observer) forces the 
moving object to absorb and emit scalar waves at a higher rate along its 
direction of motion than when its not moving. Thus to the external observer, 
the mass of the object has increased, insofar as any disturbing force along 
its line of motion is concerned. 

      At right angles to its line of motion however, the flux rate is 
precisely the same as when the object is at rest. Therefore the "mass" of the 
moving object with respect to any disturbing force at right angles to its 
line of motion has not changed, as seen by the external observer. 

      Thus is explained both parts of one of the all time great mysteries of 
special relativity: (1) how the mass of an object increases with respect to 
its motion, and (2) why the mass only increases with respect to its line of 
motion, and not at any right angles to it. 

      The inertia of a particle is due to its mass, i.e., to the total 
magnitude of its trapped scalar resonance. 

      The gravitational attraction between two masses is due to their 
spacetime curvature. Further, mass is like a capacitance. It can trap 
additional scalar waves as trapped resonance; hence increase its magnitude or 
"inertial charge". Or, it can discharge more scalar waves than it absorbs; 
hence decrease its magnitude or "internal charge"... 


      Those scalar waves emitted from resonance are emitted as a pattern 
ensemble of the resonance. Hence they may be regarded as constituting a 
current of scalar resonance leaving the mass accumulator object. Scalar waves 
absorbed into trapped resonance may be regarded as constituting a current of 
scalar resonance into the mass accumulator object. Thus it is proper to speak 
of scalar resonance as being able to "flow". 

      Further, it is possible to increase the mass of an object directly, by 
transmitting scalar EM waves to it so that it absorbs them. (By absorbing 
scalar waves one means that more enter the object than leave it, so that the 
object acts as an internal accumulator charging up with internal charge. This 
is done by insuring the reference potential of the scalar wave transmitter is 
higher than the reference potential of the irradiated object.) 

      It is also possible to decrease the mass of an object directly, by 
transmitting scalar EM waves to it so that it emits more than it absorbs. (By 
emitting scalar waves one means that more leave the object than enter it, so 
the object acts as if it were an internal accumulator that is discharging its 
internal charge. this is done by insuring that the reference potential of the 
scalar transmitter is lower than the reference potential of the irradiated 
object.) 

       As can be seen, the scalar wave "transmitter" is actually somewhat 
comparable to a heat pump; it can either act as an "energy transmitter" or as 
an "energy extractor", depending on the difference in potential between 
"transmitter" and "receiver." 


       Scalar resonance can have a specific pattern: both in frequency and in 
spatial curvature aspects, as well as "rate of flow of time" aspects. Indeed, 
scalar-wise every object has its individual "scalar pattern" which is a 
unique fingerprint. Since that print is spatiotemporal, it is a product of 
that objects  entire past history. Thus --scalar wise-- no two objects are 
identical. 

       This brings up another rather amazing potential: If a reasonably 
precise scalar pattern of an object can be "irradiated" and resonated with 
scalar waves, energy may be created in or extracted from the distant object, 
just as stimulating one tuning fork can excite another at a distance by 
sympathetic resonance. I leave it to you to ascertain the relavence of this 
statement to clairvoyance, radionics, remote viewing, etc.

       For the skeptic, however, we must point out that --rigorously--quantum 
mechanics requires that, continually, in any localized region of spacetime, 
the "pattern" of any object in the universe appears momentarily in the 
virtual state, purely from statistical considerations alone. So long as the 
situation remains statistical, any place in the universe can continue to have 
the "ghosts" of everything present there, in an ethereally thin pattern, and 
the observable world will not be affected by it. However if one can 
discriminate and scalarly "charge" or "discharge" individual patterns in this 
"ghost-realm", action at a distance is directly possible, as is 
materialization and dematerialization. If one accepts that even thought 
itself produces such virtual "ghost-patterns" in the virtual particle flux of 
vacuum, then it is at least theoretically possible to materialize thoughts 
and thought images. 
 

        We have entered a new kind of reality where the old rules and the old
limitations do not necessarily apply. 


        As pointed out, we can greatly simplify matters by considering 
'currents of scalar resonance'. These currents flow from higher potential to 
lower potential, regardless of whether we are considering "transmission" or 
"reception". 

        Indeed, to transmit at lower potential is to receive, and to receive 
at higher potential is to transmit.  Thus the "transmitter-receiver" is a 
special system where simply biasing two nodes differently determines which 
way the scalar resonance will flow. We may increase or decrease an object's 
inertia and mass, simply by properly biasing the transmitter-receiver's two 
nodes.

        In one accidental experiment of some hours duration, Golden charged 
up an area so that, locally, all clocks became erratic. This included 
electrical clocks, battery driven watches, wind up kitchen clocks, and a 
pendulum operated grandfather clock. The rate of flow of time itself was 
apparently altered in the local area by the accumulated charge, which took 
four days to drain off and discharge. At the end of four days of discharge, 
all clocks and watches returned to normal.

(Continued)
