

      If we interfere two transmitters in a region of great energy--such as 
the molten core of the earth itself--and bias the transmitters negatively, we
can extract enormous energy directly from that distant source! 

      Indeed, a slight variation of this effect is precisely how the Soviet 
Union obtains the enormous energy with which to power its incredibly 
powerful strategic "continent-buster" scalar EM weapons. Scalar frequency 
pairs -- 12 kilohertz apart -- are transmitted into the earth itself on some 
portion of the earth's "giant scalar resonance" frequency curve. Biasing the 
two transmitters differently with respect to each other produces a high 
potential difference (voltage) between them. At the same time, biasing them 
both negative with respect to the earth's molten core produces a scalar 
resonance current from the core to the two transmitters. In the "outer loop" 
between the two scalar transmitters, there appears a gigantic v/ltage and 
gigantic electrical current which can be captured by appropriate means. This 
electrical power is tapped off and transmitted to incredibly powerful scalar 
EM weapon systems. There, special accumulators ad switchers are utilized to 
provide awesome amounts of power to each weapon. 

      Just before May 1,1985 the Soviet Union performed a "full-up" 
operational test of their entire strategic scalar EM weap/ns complex. This 
test was detected and monitored periodically by Frank Golden. Some 27 of 
these giant Soviet "power taps" were locked into the molten core of the 
earth, producing forced (entrained) scalar resonance of the entire planet on 
54 controlled frequencies under our very feet. The remainder of the scalar 
frequency spectrum was ablaze with literally hundreds of Soviet scalar 
transmitters: probably the entire strategic scalar command and control system 
to underwater submarines, higher command centers, distant commands, etc. was 
activated in the giant exercise. 

      For several days the system was exercised on a mind-boggling scale, 
apparently as part of the Soviet Unions highly accentuated 40th anniversary 
celebration of the end of World War II. 

      Ironically, not a single U.S. intelligence agency, laboratory, or 
scientist detected this monstrous exercise for the new Soviet leader, 
Gorbacev. Not one of them had a detector for scalar EM radiation, and not one 
of them will --officially-- say that the exercise ever happened. 


-- CREATING ENERGY AT A DISTANCE --
 
      A most useful device is obtained if one uses a scalar inferometer where 
the two transmitters transmit beams which intersect at a distance. 

      In the interference zone, an energy bottle is created.

      By biasing the transmitter reference potentials well above that of the
distant energy bottle, EM energy emerges in that zone. In that case the 
interferometer is operating in the Exothermic mode. 

      By biasing the transmitter reference potentials well below that of the
distant energy bottle, EM energy is extracted from the distant zone and
emerges from the transmitter. In that case the inferometer is operating in
the Endothermic mode.

      If the transmitters transmit continuously, the effect in the distant 
zone is continuous. 

      If each transmitter transmits a pulse, and the two pulses meet in the 
distant intersection zone, then an explosive emergence or extraction of 
energy occurs at the distant interference zone, depending on whether the 
inferometer is operating in the exothermic or endothermic mode. 


-- EXOTHERMIC MODE (SCALAR INTERFEROMETER) --
 
      For a scalar interferometer, "del phi" (the gradient of the potential) 
applies between the transmitter sit and the distant intersection site, not to 
the intervening space in between. Thus one speaks of "energy flow" as being 
between the transmitter and intersection --without- any "in between". In the 
intervening space, all energy exists as locked-in artificial potential, not 
EM force field energy (gradient bleed off potential). 

      In the Exothermic mode, the ground potential of the transmitter is 
biased well above the ground potential of ambient vacuum. Energy enters the 
transmitter and "disappears", to "reappear" in the distant interference zone. 

      If continuous wave transmission is used, the energy continuously 
appears in the distant zone. 

      If pulse transmission is used and timed so that the two scalar pulses 
meet in the distant zone, energy explosively appears there. 

      If multiple frequencies are transmitted in the manner of a Fourier
expansion of a particular geometric form, then a 3-dimensional energy form 
appears at the distant intersection. In this manner a spherical or 
hemispherical shell (a globe or "dome" of EM energy) can be created at a 
distance. If pulse transmission is used, this will be an impulsive or 
explosive emergence of that energy form. If continuous transmission is used, 
this will be a continuous glowing form. 

      By feeding incredibly powerful transmitters with large amounts of 
energy extracted from the earth's molten core by "energy taps," very large 
spherical globes and hemispherical domes of EM energy can be created at a 
distance. The energy in the interference "shell" of such a sphere or 
hemisphere is sufficiently dense to lift Dirac matter from the Dirac sea of 
the vacuum. Thus the shell contains a glowing plasma. 

      Many such scalar howitzer  signatures have been seen over the oceans, 
particularly over the north Pacific by jet airliners flying into and out of 
Japan. (Remember some months ago the big story about the JAL flight in which 
all passengers and crew saw a giant spherical "UFO".) Also such globes and 
domes of light have been seen deep within the Soviet Union, by observers in 
Afghanistan and by pilots of aircraft landing in Iran. 

      In the impulsive exothermic mode, a large visible flash will occur if 
EM energy in the visible spectrum is produced. "Flashes" in the infrared may 
similarly occur, if the emerging energy is in that spectral band. In 
September 1979 our Vela satellites detected such a large "nuclear flash" over 
the South Atlantic, off the southern coast of Africa. A second "nuclear 
flash" detected by the Vela satellites in 1980 was in the infrared only. Some 
years ago, a series of anomalous "flashes" and "booms" occurred off the east 
coast of the United States. The were due to the orientation and alignment -- 
and registration -- of one or more "scalar howitzers" -- scalar EM 
interferometers in the exothermic mode. 

      Large "booms" occurred over the shuttle launch site at Cape Canaveral, 
associated with three shuttle launches prior to the end of November 1985. 
These were tests of such exothermic scalar EM howitzers, being tested as part 
of the Soviet Launch Phase ABM system. In that mode, the scalar pulses from 
the two transmitters are injected into special zero-reference scalar EM 
"channels" established in the EM carriers of the Woodpecker over-the-horizon 
radars. The scalar pulses travel through these channels, traveling in the 
ordinary EM beam of the transmitter and following it in its curvature around 
the earth in the earth-ionospheric waveguide. The scalar pulses are timed, 
phased, and oriented so as to meet the rising shuttle. In these tests the 
transmissions were offset in time so the shuttle would not actually be 
destroyed, but the system could be tested against actual shuttle launches in 
the U.S. 
     
      The specific uses of these various exothermic modes will be covered in 
later parts of this series. 

      In the endothermic mode, the bias on the transmitters is such that 
energy is extracted from the distant intersection zone, to re-emerge from the 
transmitters. There the energy must be caught and disposed of if it is not to 
burn out the transmitters. When very large amounts of energy are extracted 
from distant points, the Soviets often use a "dump" method of temporarily 
capturing, and storing in an accumulator, the heat energy emerging at the 
transmitters. A second howitzer in the exothermic mode is then fed by a 
"scalar energy tap" established into the accumulator. This howitzer is 
focused on the distant dump site -- often Bennett Island, where exhausts are 
continually observed by U.S. weather satellites. 

      In the impulsive endothermic mode, energy is impulsively extracted from 
the distant intersection zone. In the atmosphere this results in a very sharp 
cooling or "cold explosion". It also results in the type of boom and rumble 
often associated with thunder after a lightning bolt. 

      On April 9, 1984 the Soviet Union tested such a "cold explosion" off 
the coast of Japan, near the Kuril Islands. In the suddenly induced low 
pressure "cold zone" above the ocean, ocean water was sharply sucked up from 
the ocean, forming a dense cloud. Then air rushing into the low pressure zone 
forced the cloud upward, forming a mushroom much like that of an atomic 
explosion except for the absence of a flash and the absence of a shockwave 
moving out and away from the center of the explosion. 

      As the cloud rises, it expands by mixing -- very similar to a giant 
thunderhead buildup, except much faster. In this case the cloud rose to about 
60,000 feet in about 2 minutes, spreading out until it reached a diameter of 
about 200 miles. The incident was seen by the pilots and crews of several 
Boeing 747 jet airliners in the general vicinity. Sometime after that, a U.S. 
weather satellite photo of the area occurred. The cloud in that photo has an 
anomalous density distribution, differing from that of all other clouds in 
the area... 

(Continued)
