

--TESLA'S "BIG EYE" FOR REMOTE VIEWING--
 
     Nikola Tesla planned a very special use for his endothermic scalar
interferometer. He planned to produce what he called his "big eye to see at a 
distance." 

     The system used to accomplish this is only weakly endothermic, so that 
only a small amount of energy is extracted from the distant target. Also, the 
beams are "scanned" by an open receiver, timewise, from side to side and top 
to bottom. By scanning yet another single beam through the intersection zone 
and phasing its pulses, an even better representation can be obtained. Thus 
the receiver produces a representation of the energy extracted from various 
locations within the distant endothermic zone. By displaying the received 
signals on an appropriately scanned screen, a representation of the distant 
scene can be created. This is a special kind of "microwave interferometry," 
and -- with modern techniques -- the imagery obtained can be surprisingly 
good. 

        With development, it might even become as good as the image presently 
obtained by side looking acquisition radars. 

     Interestingly enough, since scalar beams will easily penetrate the earth 
or the ocean, one can also look beneath the earth or ocean with this type of 
scanning scalar interferometer. 
    
     The importance of this capability to strategic and tactical 
reconnaissance is obvious. Camouflage, cover, and concealment have no effect 
on such a system. One can easily look into buildings and into underground 
facilities. With a small system such as this, the U.S. Marines at Khe Sahn 
would have had little difficulty locating the tunnels continually dug under 
the perimeter by the Viet Cong. And targets under jungle canopies are 
directly visible... 
         
      It requires little imagination to see that this system is easily 
adapted for use underwater. A type of "underwater radar." With such devices, 
the problem posed by the underwater nuclear submarine is solved. For example, 
an entire area can be continually searched, much like acquisition radar 
systems do now. A submarine can be detected and tracked, and none of its 
ordinary detectors will detect anything out of the ordinary. By using a 
separate pair of beams in the exothermic mode, powerful scalar pulses can be 
fired at the distant sub, intersecting at the submarine in a violent EMP 
throughout the sub and its armament. Thus the sub and all of its missiles 
are destroyed instantly. 

      Or, continuous exothermic transmission can be used by the targeting 
weapon at lesser power, gradually interfering with the sub's electrical 
systems and causing it to loose control. The sub then sinks to crush depths 
and implodes. 

      Precisely that scenario seems to be what happened on April 10, 1963 to 
the U.S.S. Thresher nuclear submarine. It left a signature: the subs nearby 
surface companion, the U.S.S. Skylark, was in the "splatter zone" of the 
underwater scalar interference. That is, spurious EM noise was being 
generated in all the Skylark's electrical systems, some of which were 
actually disabled. So intense was the "electronic jamming" that it required 
over an hour and a half for the Skylark to transmit an emergency message 
back to its headquarters that the Thresher was n serious trouble and contact 
with it had been lost. Some of the Skylark's communication systems actually 
failed, but later resumed operation inexplicably, once the jamming was gone. 
That type of "jamming" of multiple bands and multiple electronic equipment, 
of course, together with the anomalous failure of electronic equipment and 
its later mysterious recovery, were direct signatures of the exothermic 
scalar interferometer against thee undersea target in the vicinity of the 
skylark. 

      The very next day, April 11,1963, the same Soviet scalar EM howitzer 
system was tested in the "destroy submarine" pulse mode. A huge underwater EM 
blast occurred off the coast of Puerto Rico, about 100 miles north of the 
island. The underwater explosion caused a huge boiling of the surface  of the 
ocean, followed by the rising up of a giant mushroom of water about a third 
of a mile high, the mushroom of water then fell back into the ocean, 
completing the signature. 

      Fortunately the entire incident was seen by the startled crew of a 
passing U.S. jetliner which was just passing its checkpoint in that area. 
(See Robert J.Durant, "An underwater explosion -- or what?", Pursuit, 5(2), 
April 1972, p. 30-31.) 

      These two incidents were full up operational tests of Khrushchev's 
newly-deployed superweapons. He probably staged this dramatic one-two punch 
in a desperate effort to recover face with the Communist Party after his 
disastrous face down by Kennedy in thee Cuban Missile Crisis a few short 
months previously. Apparently the attempt was successful, since he remained 
in power another year before being deposed. 


--MUSHROOM CLOUD FROM SEA OFF JAPAN NEAR RUSSIAN TEST AREA--
 
      The following is concerning the "cold explosion" of April 9,1984. The 
site of the explosion was only about 200 miles from downtown Tokyo. It was 
seen by the crews of several jet airliners, including Japan Air Lines Flight 
36. 

      A short time before the Soviets had hastily announced missile tests 
would be conducted into a zone some distance away from the ol explosion site. 
This may have been a deception to cover this incident, should any nation 
indicate they knew what was going on. 

      It was also a direct "stimulus" to the Japanese and the rest of the 
world: That is stimulate the system and see if the scientists recognize what 
happened. If they do, then they know about scalar EM weapons. If they don't, 
then their countries know nothing of scalar EM weapons, and those countries 
are defenseless against them. 

      At any rate, at about 5:14 a.m. Pacific Standard time on April 9,1984, 
a giant mushroom cloud erupted above the ocean south of the Kuril Islands. 
The mushroom rose rapidly, expanding to an altitude of 60,000 feet and a 
diameter of 200 miles within 2 minutes. 

      One pilot of a Boeing 747 who observed the cloud was a former B-52 
bomber pilot. He described the cloud as being very similar to that of a 
gigantic nuclear explosion, except there was no flash of visible light. 
Taking evasive action, he turned off course away from the blast, and braced 
for a blast shock that never came... 


--MUSHROOM CLOUD RISING FROM THE SEA (COLD EXPLOSION)--
 
      Indeed, this highly anomalous cloud was due to a cold explosion -- a 
test of a Soviet scalar EM howitzer in the pulsed endothermic mode. 
     
      Thus a beautiful "stimulus" and test was conducted: quite a few 
airliners were "pinged", providing a high-level stimulus to competent 
observers. The news was sure to be reported by them to several nations. The 
press was sure to pick up the story. This was a high order stimulus to see 
whether the U.S., Japan, or other potential adversaries of the Soviet Union 
recognized the testing of a cold explosion weapon. 

      By our reaction, we assured them (with high confidence) that we still 
knew nothing of scalar EM interferometry or cold explosions. 

      Five Boeing 747's flew through or near the cloud on their way to 
Anchorage Alaska. The aircraft were checked at Anchorage for rad)oactive 
contamination, but nothing was found. This showed that the  huge explosion 
had been non-nuclear. 

      The ocean in the area is also about 21,000 feet deep. That is really 
too deep for a submarine volcano to have erupted and caused the cloud. 
(Besides, a volcano would have continued to snort at least a bit, and so that 
appears to be out of the question as a cause of the incident.) 

      In short, a man made phenomenon is indicated.

      Indeed, we know it was a cold explosion. In fact, the basic effect has 
been produced over a dish of water in the laboratory, using a small scalar 
interferometer in the endothermic mode. 

      Further, the story does not end there.

      A geophysicist at the University of Hawaii, Dr.Daniel A. Walker, 
together with his colleages monitor an array of Hydrophones on the ocean 
bottom, recording signals such as seismic events, volcano eruptions, etc. 

      Dr.Walker and his colleages performed a comprehensive analysis of the
data recorded by the hydrophones in and around the time of the incident in 
question. The data shows the absence of any natural seismic or volcanic event 
that could have caused the April 9th phenomenon off the coast of Japan. 
    
      He and his colleages concluded that it was either an as yet unknown 
natural phenomenon, or a man made phenomenon. 

      Their report is published in "Science". (D.Walker,"Kaitoku Seamount and 
the Mystery Cloud of 9 April 1984," Science, 227(4687),Feb.8,1985,p. 
607-611.) 

(Continued)
