
--THE TESLA SHIELD--
 
      Of particular interest is the hemispherical shell of energy which years 
ago was dubbed the "Tesla Shield." 

      Two scalar hemispherical surfaces are created, using multiple frequency 
transmitters and truncated Fourier series expansions. Interference of the two 
scalar hemispheres creates a great, glowing hemispherical shell of ordinary 
electromagnetic energy. In the shell, the energy density is sufficient to 
lift Dirac matter from the Dirac sea of vacuum. The shell is thus filled with 
a glowing plasma. 

      Such a shell may be several hundreds of miles in diameter at the base. 
The enormous energy required to form such a defense shell is obtained by a 
"scalar power tap" into the molten core of the earth itself as previously 
explained. In late April/early May of 1985, 27 such "power taps" were placed 
in the earth by the Soviets. If each tap is capable of powering 4 to 6 large 
scalar EM weapons, then the Soviet strategic scalar EM arsenal contains over 
100 monstrous superweapons capable of generating exothermic explosions, 
endothermic explosions, engineering the weather, locating and destroying 
underwater submarines, detecting and destroying ballistic missiles shortly 
after launch, detecting and destroying long range strategic bombers as soon 
as they are airborne, etc. 

      At any rate, the giant Tesla shield is useful against any penetrating 
vehicle. If the shell is not so large, its energy density may be very high. 
In that case, the intense plasma heating will fuse and even vaporize metallic 
bodies. In addition, any vehicle encountering the shell is subjected to an 
extremely intense EMP arising everywhere inside its circuitry. EMP shielding 
is of no use against the creation of energy throughout the spacetime of the 
circuits; such shielding only helps against energy flow through space in the 
conventional sense. 

      Thus the electronics of any vehicle encountering the shield are 
instantly dudded, whether or not they are shielded against ordinary 
electromagnetic interference (EMI). This includes the electronics operating a 
nuclear warhead, carried by a re-entry vehicle. Electrically everything 
penetrating the shell is totally dudded. Further, explosive materials are 
exploded when such an EMP is encountered, and combustible materials are 
fiercely consumed or set afire. Ablative shielding suffers an interesting 
catastrophe: since energy does not try to "flow into" the shielding but 
"arises" everywhere in it simultaneously, "ablation" occurs everywhere 
throughout the ablative material, simply exploding it instantly. In addition, 
for smaller Tesla shells (say of 50 miles in diameter) the energy density is 
sufficient to melt or vaporize metals such as missile structures. 

       With such a Tesla shield, there is no need to discriminate true 
warhead bearing re-entry vehicles from decoys, chaff, etc. The whole "mess" 
entering the shield is simply "cleaned up" and "sterilized" or destroyed. The 
shield can take care of ICBMs/IRBMs and their nuclear warheads, strategic 
bombers and their nuclear bombs, cruise missiles and their nuclear warheads, 
re-entry vehicles and their warheads, decoys, chaff, etc.


--SARYSHAGAN DIRECTION-SEPTEMBER 1979--
 
       The London Sunday Times of 17 August 1980 contained information and a 
photo-sketch of incidents fo sighting of the testing of very large Tesla 
globes deep within the Soviet Union. The sightings were made in Afghanistan 
by British war cameraman Nick Downie. The phenomena seen were in the 
direction of the Saryshagan Missile Test Range, which -- according to the 
U.S. Defense Departments "Soviet Military Power," 1986 -- contains one or 
more large directed energy weapons (DEW's). 
 
       Even though Downie was seeing the globe of light from a great 
distance, it flared silently over the Hindu Kush and expanded to subtend an 
arc of about 20 degrees, dimming as it expanded. (An arc of 20 degrees 
subtended by an object many hundreds of miles distant indicates an object of 
well over a hundred miles in diameter. This gives some idea of the enormous 
energy being controlled and manipulated by these Soviet weapons.) 

       Downie saw the sight on more than one occasion in September 1979.

       In the same month --December 1979-- a stationary luminous globe 
containing a vertical stripe of black in the center was seen in the sky off 
the coast of St.Petersburg, Florida. This particular type of sighting in that 
area has been previously correlated with times of known activity at 
Saryshagan. 

       Further, in the same month, U.S. nuclear warning Vela satellites 
detected a "nuclear flash" over the South Atlantic, off the coast of Africa. 
Controversy has raged in U.S. Intelligence and scientific circles to this day 
as to whether a nuclear explosion or some other kind of mechanism produced 
the flash. 

       Indeed, the flash may have been produced by a scalar EM howitzer from 
Saryshagan as one more "ping" of the U.S. Intelligence system, to ascertain 
whether or not it knew anything about scalar EM howitzers. Again the negative 
response told them with high confidence that (1) We still didn't know about 
scalar EM stuff, and (2) We were still totally defenseless against the Soviet 
scalar EM weaponry. 

       At any rate, from Downie's sightings, it is highly probable that the 
DEW weaponry at Saryshagan Missile Test Range was active in September 1979, 
and was producing large Tesla globes. If the DEWs at Saryshagan can produce 
the giant luminous Tesla globe, they are almost certainly scalar EM 
interferometers and can produce the giant Tesla shields as well. Downie 
reported other earlier sightings of similar phenomena seen by Afghans deep 
within the Soviet Union in the same direction toward Saryshagan... 


       Briefly, let us cover the uses of such a giant globe or spherical 
shell of glowing EM energy and plasma. 

       By placing such a giant globe hundreds of miles out away from the 
defended heartland, an entire arc of the sky can be defended against long 
range ballistic missile attack in midcourse. During their midcourse 
trajectory, the attacking missiles would have to penetrate the globular shell 
twice, exposing them to giant internal EMPs twice. A very high probability 
thus exists that all missiles entering the space occupied by the globe are 
dudded upon entry and/or exit. This includes the electronics inside the 
nuclear warheads themselves. Also this is particularly effective against MIRV 
and MARV missile carriers since the multiple re-entry vehicles are normally 
still on the main vehicle during most of midcourse. The use of this midcourse 
ABM globe defense greatly reduces the number of vehicles arriving at the 
latter part of midcourse and the terminal phase of their trajectory. 

       By using a smaller, more intense globe, and placing it on incoming 
clusters of objects or single objects, both EMP and local heating are used 
against the objects. This is suitable in the latter part of midcourse and in 
the terminal phase of ICBMs, IRBMs, SLBMs, and cruise missiles. It is also 
useful against incoming strategic bombers and their air to surface missiles 
both ballistic and cruise. 

       Two modes of the globes -- especially the small ones -- can be used. 
First the continuous mode can be used to "fry" or vaporize incoming objects 
in a relatively small volume (say ten to fifteen miles in diameter). Second, 
the "pulse" mode can be used to "service" all incoming objects, whether or 
not they have passed through the "large globe" midcourse defense. This 
provides an additional guarantee of killing the objects; discrimination is 
not require, just get all of them. The exposure of all incoming objects to 
multiple attacks raises the probability of kill to essentially 100%, or as 
close to that as one wishes. Of course the incoming vehicle may still 
encounter a terminal defense consisting of the Tesla shield and associated 
roving "quickshot" small intense globes. 

       In short, with these systems an essentially 100% ABM and anti bomber 
defense is possible. Further, the Soviets have possessed such an effective 
defense for two decades, JUST AS THEY HAVE OPENLY STATED SINCE 1960 WHEN 
KHRUSHCHEV ANNOUNCED HIS "SUPERWEAPONS"!! 
 
 


--CONTINUOUS TESLA EMP GLOBE--
 
       Here is another verified incident of a gigantic test of a Soviet 
scalar EM howitzer deep within the Soviet Union. 

       This is a C.I.A. report, released under the Freedom of Information 
Act. One can be quite sure that the incident occurred as stated. 

       The phenomenon was seen from two aircraft approaching Mehrabad Airport 
in Teheran, Iran on June 17, 1966 and reported by their pilots. 

       On the far horizon deep within the Soviet Union, an intense spherical 
ball of light appeared, "sitting on the horizon" so to speak. The globe of 
light increased to enormous size, dimming as it did so, literally filling an 
arc of the distant sky as it expanded. The sighting was shielded from most 
ground observers view at the airport itself due to an intervening mountain 
range which masked most of the phenomena from the ground. 

       The silent, expanding globe was observed for four or five minutes 
before it faded away. 

       Again this is positive evidence of the testing of a giant scalar
interferometer, in the "midcourse ABM globe" type of action.

       However, note the date -- mid 1966! The Soviets have therefore been
testing such scalar weapons of enormous size and power for at least two
decades. This implies that development must have started at least a decade 
earlier, or in the mid '50s. 

       Still earlier, in January 1960 Nikita Khrushchev had announced the
development of a "fantastic" Soviet weapon, one which could even destroy all 
life on earth if unrestrainedly used. In 1962 the ebullient Khrushchev was 
forced to back down and lose face before John Kennedy, in the Cuban Missile 
Crisis. Khrushchev's missiles and bombers were in woeful shape, as Kennedy 
well knew (by courtesy of the Russian spy, Colonel Oleg Penkovsky). Kennedy 
did not know that Khrushchev's new superweapons were nearing deployment, but 
were not quite ready yet. 

       To save face and prevent his immediate ouster, Khrushchev apparently 
conducted a startling two-strike demonstration of his new weapons as soon as 
they became operationally ready. On April 10, 1963 he detected and destroyed 
the U.S.S. Thresher nuclear submarine, using a scalar EM howitzer in the 
underwater "continuous" mode. The next day he demonstrated the "pulsed" 
underwater destruction mode for underwater subs by producing a giant 
underwater 
explosion underneath the water 100 miles north of Puerto Rico. Ironically, 
just as the Atlantic was coming alive with U.S. naval vessels searching for 
the lost Thresher, a second test of the weapons that had finished off the sub 
occurred to the south of them, unnoticed and disregarded, even though seen 
and reported to he F.B.I. and the U.S. Coast Guard by a passing U.S. 
jetliner's pilot and crew, who observed the underwater explosion. 

        We thus can peg the development of these weapons by the Soviets as 
starting well before 1960. The first operational deployment of the gigantic 
strategic weaponry occurred in early 1963. 
      
        Note that the 1966 testing observed here is completely consistent 
with this estimated development schedule. 

        Thus large Soviet strategic scalar EM weapons have been operational 
on site for 24 YEARS !!! This implies that at least three additional 
generations of the scalar EM weapons have been developed and deployed by 
now... 
 


--MYSTERIOUS LIGHTS OVER NORTH PACIFIC--
 
        Incidents of Soviet testing of the Tesla shield and the Tesla globe 
weapons are routinely observed  by airline pilots flying over the North 
Pacific into and out of Japan. 

        This is one typical example. Two jetliners, Japan Air Lines flights 
403 and 421, sighted and reported a large glowing globe of light sitting just 
beyond the horizon and extending well above it. The aircraft were in the 
vicinity of 42 degrees N latitude and 153 degrees longitude at the time. The 
sighting was thus about 700 miles east of Kushiro. 

        The diameter of the ball was estimated as at least 18-27 kilometers 
by the pilots. Depending upon the actual distance to the sphere it may have 
been of much larger size. 

        This incident is reported in the Asahi Evening News, Tokyo, June 22, 
1982. 
   
        Many similar sightings have been reported by jet airliner pilots 
flying over these waters. 
 
--WHITE SPHERE SEEN IN NORTH ATLANTIC 1976--
 
        Here is another sighting closer to home. 

        This incident was observed from a passing ship on June 22,1976 in the 
North Atlantic, at about 2113-2140 hours. It is reported in the Marine 
Observer, Vol.47,1977, p.66. 

        First an orange glow was sighted behind some distant clouds. A couple 
of minutes later, a glowing white sphere of light was observed to the left of 
the orange glow, just above the clouds. The white sphere then slowly expanded 
to a much larger sphere, dimming as it expanded. At its maximum size, the top 
of the white sphere reached about 24 degrees 30 minutes elevation angle to 
the observer. Development to maximum size required about 10 minutes. 

        By 2140 hours the sphere had faded and disappeared. The sphere was 
sufficiently thin that the stars could be seen through  it at all times. 

        Again, this incident strong<y fits the large Tesla globe mode of a
Soviet scalar EM interferometer.

        The significance and role of the orange glow are not known at this
time.
 

--CONTINUOUS TESLA FIREBALL--
 
        Here is another incident that represents a stimulus to the British
government, to see if the British are aware of scalar electromagnetics.

        Again this is a CIA report released under the Freedom of Information
Act, so the details are reliable.

        On Sep. 10, 1976 British European Airways flight 831, flying between
Moscow and London and over Lithuania at the time, observed an intense ball
of light above the clouds below the aircraft. The light was so intense it
lit up the sky in the entire vicinity.

        The concerned pilot reported the glowing object to Soviet ground
authorities with whom he was in contact. He received harsh instructions to
ignore the light, and essentially to continue on his way out of there.

      Here we see an incident involving a small, intense Tesla globe, of the
kind with which the defense could "service" objects that had already
penetrated a large midcourse globe, or aircraft approaching the defended
area.

        Obviously the Soviet authorities were tracking the aircraft, and knew
it was in the vicinity. It seems logical, then, that they deliberately
placed the brightly glowing ball beneath the aircraft so that the pilot and
crew could not fail to observe it.

        The strange message to the pilot was simply designed to increase the
intensity of the stimulus. The stimulus was to be something like, "The
Soviets are doing something in research and development that allows them to
create intense balls of glowing light at a distance, and place these objects
in and around the air in and around aircraft, possibly to intercept them."
The purpose, of course, was to observe the British governments reaction
after the incident was reported by the pilot upon his arrival in London.

        Again the reaction of the British -- and the U.S. as well -- was as
predicted. Again we showed that we knew nothing of scalar electromagnetic
weapons, and did not recognize one when we encountered its effects.

(Continued)
