
--TERMINAL ABM SYSTEM--
 
      Very neat things can be done if one "nests" several Tesla shields -- 
say three or four -- concentrically, one inside the other. In that case even 
the nuclear radiation (such as gamma rays) from a defense-suppressive high 
altitude nuclear burst can be handled. 
 
     For example, suppose three such concentric shields are placed over a 
large vital area. Further, suppose a high altitude nuclear burst is placed 
above the outer shield. Gamma radiation almost instantly strikes the plasma 
in the outer shell, where it is absorbed, scattered, and re-radiated at a 
lower temperature. (That after all is what plasmas do.) Inside the first 
shell, the scattered radiation is now in the x-ray and ultra violet region. 
Let us track the most lethal component, the x-rays. 

     The scattered x-rays then strike the second plasma shell, and are 
absorbed scattered and re-radiated at a lower temperature. Inside the second 
shell the scattered radiation is now in the visible and infrared region, with 
a little ultraviolet. 
 
     This optical radiation in turn strikes the third plasma shell, and is 
absorbed scattered and re-radiated at still lower temperature. Inside the 
third shell, most of the energy is now in the form of radio frequency (RF) 
energy, with a little IR and visible band spectral energy content. 
 
     At this point, ordinary electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding of 
electronic equipment on the ground inside the third shield can take care of 
any RF interference resulting from the emergent RF noise. 

     As can be seen, three shells are sufficient to convert the gamma and 
x-ray radiation (and ultraviolet and infrared) mostly to harmless RF energy 
before all three shells are penetrated. Thus the tactic of deliberate defense 
suppression by a preliminary high altitude nuclear burst can be countered by 
multiple Tesla shields. 

     In addition, of course, any ordinary vehicles penetrating all three
shields are exposed to successive violent EMP's and are almost certainly
electrically dudded. The vehicles are also subjected to multiple periods of
intense heating, so combustibles, fuels, explosives, and ablatives are 
destroyed. In addition, metal structures may be melted or vaporized. 

     Think of it this way: anything which hits one of these Tesla shields 
goes phhht! Just like a bug hitting an electrified bugkiller screen. 

     For years passing ships have observed and reported such multiple-shield 
"light phenomena" over remote regions of the ocean. U.S. intelligence has 
routinely not paid any heed to "lights at night" over remote ocean areas, and 
so Soviet tests in this manner have remained relatively unnoticed by 
officialdom... 



--WOODPECKER BEAMS INTERSECT OVER NORTH AMERICA--
 
     In July 1976 the U.S. received very special Bicentennial greetings from 
the Soviet Union. 

     At that time, communications systems of the world in the 3-30 megaHertz 
band suddenly met substantial interference from extremely powerful, chirped 
Soviet transmitters which were suddenly activated. These transmitters 
continue their transmission to this day. 

     Estimates of the power of these transmitters vary, but figures range as 
high as several hundred megawatts, with a nominal figure being 100 megawatts. 

     These powerful transmitters were properly nicknamed "Woodpeckers" 
because of the characteristic sound of the chirped signal when received. That 
is, the received signal makes a "pecking" sound much like a woodpecker's beak 
hitting a block of wood. 

     Several nations protested, but the powerful signals have continued, 
right down to this day. The only Soviet response was to add a "spread 
spectrum" capability, so that the transmitter would not dwell too long on one 
specific frequency, but shifted periodically to other frequencies. 

     These transmitters have apparently never been precisely located by U.S. 
intelligence, but their beams carry much of the characteristics of an over-
the-horizon (OTH) radar. They have been dubbed OTH radars by U.S. 
intelligence, and can without question perform that mission, in addition to 
some very interesting missions that U.S. intelligence does not assess. 

     "Soviet Military Power", Department of Defense, 1985, p.45 shows the 
direct intersection over the United States of the Woodpecker radar beams used 
in an OTH role. In addition, shown is an additional "scanner" beam which can 
be scanned across the intersection "grid" over the U.S., formed by waveform 
interference of two main Woodpecker beams. 

     First, they can be used in  a conventional OTH radar mode, since their 
beams follow the earth-ionosphere waveguide and curve around the earth. In 
this mode they can detect missiles at launch and thereafter, and strategic 
bombers at launch and thereafter. 

     These scalar interference grid weapons can be used to biologically 
attack entire populations in a targeted area. This aspect is not covered in 
this briefing. Suffice it to say that phase locked ELF modulation signals of 
10 Hz and less are often detected on multiple woodpecker frequencies 
simultaneously. In a target area, this modulation -- is sufficiently stronger 
than the Schumann resonance of the earth's magnetic field -- will entrain a 
percentage of the brains into "forced entrainment". In that case, these human 
brains are "synchronized" to the Woodpecker signals so that multiple coherent 
frequencies are phase-locked into them. That is, multiple coherent EM 
channels directly into these entrained brains now exist. At that point, 
Fourier expansions may now be used to attack specific portions of the brain 
geometrically. 

     In addition, scalar EM disease patterns can be modulated upon the 
carriers, again with fourier expansions. Specific biological effects can be 
induced in the entrained populations at will, limited only by the state of 
the art of the Soviet technology used to attack them. Possible effects 
include instantaneous death, heart seizure, severe emotional disruption, loss 
of control of internal functions, diseases, disabling of the immune system, 
and even implantation of thoughts, emotions, and ideas which are interpreted 
by the subjects as their own. 

     While further discussion of this area is beyond the scope of my
knowledge, the biological aspects of the Woodpecker transmitters are
horrible. It suffices to say that, in thousands of experiments, Kaznacheyev
demonstrated that almost any kind of cellular death and disease pattern
could be electromagnetically transmitted. Kaznacheyev reported the effect in
te near ultraviolet.  Experimenters at the University of Marburg in West
Germany duplicated the experiments in the infrared.

     The bottom line is that photons themselves can carry death and disease
patterns between cells. Scalar EM technology allows synthesis of the actual
potential pattern (which after all represents total control of charge and
charge distribution, hence biochemistry in the cell) of a particular
disease or death mechanism. Symptoms (and cellular death from them!) of
nuclear radiation, chemical poisoning, bacterial infection, and other
mechanisms were induced by the Kaznacheyev experiments.

     Dr. Popp of West Germany has published an analysis of the virtual
photon master control system of the cells. Since scalar EM represents the
deliberate ordering of virtual particle  flux into deterministic patterns,
the master control system can readily be entered with scalar techniques to
induce disease and disorder at will...

