conditions "naively in terms of 'goodness' and 'badness' is to
ignore the constituent factors...."

                        FAKE PHOTOGRAPHS

   Not only were situations such as those at Belsen
unscrupulously exploited for propaganda purposes, but this
propaganda has also made use of entirely fake atrocity
photographs and films. The extreme conditions at Belsen applied
to very few camps indeed; the great majority escaped the worst
difficulties and all their inmates survived in good health. As a
result, outright forgeries were used to exaggerate conditions of
horror. A startling case of such forgery was revealed in the
British Catholic Herald of October 29th, 1948. It reported that
in Cassel, where every adult German was compelled to see a film
representing the "horrors" of Buchenwald, a doctor from
Goettingen saw himself on the screen looking after the victims.
But he had never been to Buchenwald. After an interval of
bewilderment he realized that what he had seen was part of a
film taken after the terrible air raid on Dresden by the Allies
on 13th February, 1945 where the doctor had been working. The
film in question was shown in Cassel on 19th October, 1948.
After the air raid on Dresden, which killed 135,000 people,
mostly refugee women and children, the bodies of the victims
were piled and burned in heaps of 400 and 500 for several weeks.
These were the scenes, purporting to be from Buchenwald, which
the doctor had recognized.
   The forgery of war-time atrocity photographs is not new. For
further information the reader is referred to Arthur Ponsonby's
book Falsehood in Wartime (London, 1928), which exposes the
faked photographs of German atrocities in the First World War.
Ponsonby cites such fabrications as "The Corpse Factory" and
"The Belgian Baby without Hands", which are strikingly
reminiscent of the propaganda relating to Nazi "atrocities".
F.J.P. Veale explains in his book that the bogus "jar of human
soap" solemnly introduced by the Soviet prosecution at Nuremberg
was a deliberate jibe at the famous British "Corpse factory"
myth, in which the ghoulish Germans were supposed to have
obtained various commodities from processing corpses (Veale,
ibid, p. 192). This accusation was one for which the British
Government apologized after 1918. It received new life after
1945 in the tale of lamp shades of human skin, which was
certainly as fraudulent as the Soviet "human soap". In fact,
from Manvell and Frankl we have the grudging admission that the
lamp shade evidence at Buchenwald Trial "later appeared to be
dubious" (The Incomparable Crime, p. 84). It was given by a
certain Andreas Pfaffenberger in a "written affidavit" of the
kind discussed earlier, but in 1948 General Lucius Clay admitted
that the affidavits used in the trial appeared after more
through investigation to have been mostly 'hearsay'.
   An excellent work on the fake atrocity photographs pertaining
to the Myth of the Six Million is Dr. Udo Walendy's Bild
'Dokumente' fur die Geschichtsschreibung (Vlotho/Weser, 1973),
and from the numerous examples cited we illustrate one on this
page [in the original book this information comes from]. The
origin of the first photograph is unknown, but the second is a
photomontage. Close examination reveals immediately that the
standing figures have been taken from the first photograph, and
a heap of corpses super-imposed in front of them. The fence has
been removed, and an entirely new horror "photograph" created.
This blatant forgery appears on page 341 of r. Schnabel's book
on the S.S., Macht ohne Moral: eine Dokumentation uber die SS
(Frankfurt, 1957), with the caption "Mauthausen". (Walendy cites
eighteen other examples of forgery in Schnabel's book.) The same
photograph appeared in the Proceedings of the International
Military Tribunal, Vol. XXX, p. 421, likewise purporting to
illustrate Mauthausen camp. It is also illustrated without a
caption in Eugene Aroneanu's Konzentrationlager Documant F. 321
for the International Court at Nuremberg; Heinz Kuhnrich's Der
KZ-Staat (Berlin, 1960, p. 81); Vaclav Berdych's Mauthausen
(Prague, 1959); and Robert Neumann's Hitler--Aufsteig and
Untergang des Dritten Reiches (Munich, 1961).

 9. THE JEWS AND THE CONCENTRATION CAMPS: A FACTUAL APPRAISAL BY
                          THE RED CROSS

   There is one survey of the Jewish question in Europe during
World War Two and the conditions of Germany's concentration
camps which is almost unique in its honesty and objectivity, the
three-volume Report of the International Committee of the Red
Cross on its Activities during the Second World War, Geneva,
1948. This comprehensive account from an entirely neutral
source incorporated and expanded the findings of two previous
works: Documents sur l'activite' du CICR en faveur des civils
detenus dans les camps de concentration en Allemagne 1939-1945
(Geneva, 1946), and Inter Arma Caritas: the Work of the ICRC
during the Second World War (Geneva, 1947). the team of authors,
headed by Frederic Siordet, explained in the opening pages of
the Report that their object, in the tradition of the Red Cross,
has been strict political neutrality, and herein lies its great
value.
   The ICRC successfully applied the 1929 Geneva military
convention in order to gain access to civilian internees held in
Central and Western Europe by the German authorities.  By
contrast, the ICRC was unable to gain any access to the Soviet
Union, which had failed to ratify the Convention. The millions
of civilian and military internees held in the USSR, whose
conditions were known to be by far the worst, were completely
cut off from any international contact or supervision.
   The Red Cross Report is of value in that it first clarifies
the legitimate circumstances under which Jews were detained in
concentration camps, i.e. as enemy aliens. In describing the two
categories of civilian internees, the Report distinguishes the
second type as "Civilians deported on administrative grounds (in
German, "Schutzhaftline"), who were arrested for political or
racial motives because their presence was considered a danger to
the State or the occupation forces" (Vol. III, p. 73). These
persons, it continues, "were placed on the same footing as
persons arrested or imprisoned under common law for security
reasons" (p.74).
   The Report admits that the Germans were at first reluctant to
permit supervision by the Red Cross of people detained on
grounds relating to security, but by the latter part of 1942,
the ICRC obtained important concessions from Germany. They were
permitted to distribute food parcels to major concentration
camps in Germany from August 1942, and "from February 1943
onwards this concession was extended to all other camps and
prisons" (Vol. III, p. 78). The ICRC soon established contact
with camp commandants and launched a food relief program which
continued to function until the last months of 1945, letters of
thanks for which came pouring in form Jewish internees.

                 RED CROSS RECIPIENTS WERE JEWS

   The Report states that "As many as 9,000 parcels were packed
daily.  From the autumn of 1943 until May 1945, about 1,112,000
parcels with a total weight of 4,500 tons were sent off to the
concentration camps" (Vol III, p. 80). In addition to food,
these contained clothing and pharmaceutical supplies. "Parcels
were sent to Dachau, Buchenwald, Sangerhausen, Sachsenhausen,
Oranienburg, Flossenburg, Landsberg-am-Lech, Floha, Ravensbruck,
Hamburg-Neuengamme, Mauthausen, Theresienstadt, Auschwitz,
Bergen-Belsen, to camps near Vienna and in Central and Southern
Germany. The principal recipients were Belgians, Dutch, French,
Greeks, Italians, Norwegians, Poles and stateless Jews" (Vol.
III, p. 83). In the course of the war, "The Committee was in a
position to transfer and distribute in the from of relief
supplies over twenty million Swiss francs collected by Jewish
welfare organization throughout the world, in particular by the
American Joint Distribution Committee of New York" (Vol. I, p.
644). This latter organization was permitted by the German
Government to maintain offices in Berlin until the American
entry into the war.  The ICRC complained that obstruction of
their vast relief operations for Jewish internees came not from
the Germans but from the tight Allied blockade of Europe. Most
of their purchases of relief food were made in Rumania, Hungary
and Slovakia.
   The ICRC had special praise for the liberal conditions which
prevailed at Theresienstadt up to the time of their last visits
there in April 1945. This camp, "where there were about 40,000
Jews deported from various countries was a relatively privileged
ghetto" (Vol III, p. 75). According to the Report, "The
Committee's delegates were able to visit the camp at
Theresienstadt (Terezin) which was used exclusively for Jews and
was governed by special conditions.  From information gathered
by the Committee, this camp had been started as an experiment by
certain leaders of the Reich . . .  These men wished to give the
Jews the means of setting up a communal life in a town under
their own administration and possessing almost complete autonomy
. . . two delegates were able to visit the camp on April 6th,
1945. They confirmed the favorable impression gained ton the
first visit" (Vol. I, p. 642).
   The ICRC also had praise for the regime of Ion Antonescu of
Fascist Rumania where the Committee was able to extend special
relief to 183,000 Rumanian Jews until time of the Soviet
occupation. The aid then ceased, and the ICRC complained
bitterly that it never succeeded "in sending anything whatsoever
to Russia" (Vol. II, p. 62). The same situation applied to many
of the German camps after their "liberation" by the Russians.
The ICRC received a voluminous flow of mail from Auschwitz until
the period of the Soviet occupation, when many of the internees
were evacuated westward. But the efforts of send relief to
internees remaining at Auschwitz under Soviet control were
futile. However, food parcels continued to be sent to former
Auschwitz inmates transferred west to such camps as Buchenwald
and Oranienburg.

                     NO EVIDENCE OF GENOCIDE

   One of the most important aspects of the Red Cross Report is
that it clarifies the true cause of those deaths that
undoubtedly occurred in the camps toward the end of the war.
Says the Report: "In the chaotic condition of Germany after the
invasion during final months of the war, the camps received no
food supplies at all and starvation claimed an increasing number
of victims. Itself alarmed by this situation, the German
Government at last informed the ICRC on February 1st, 1945. . .
In March 1945, discussions between the President of the ICRC and
General of the S.S. Kaltenbrunner gave even more decisive
results. Relief could henceforth be distributed by the ICRC, and
one delegate was authorized to stay in each camp . . ." (Vol
III, p. 83). Clearly, the German authorities were at pains to
relieve the dire situation as far as they were able. The Red
Cross are quite explicit in stating that food supplies ceased at
this time due to the Allied bombing of German transportation,
and in the interests of interned Jews they had protested on
March 15th, 1944 against "the barbarous aerial warfare of the
Allies" (Inter Arma Caritas, p. 78). By October 2nd, 1944, the
ICRC warned the German Foreign Office of the impending collapse
of the German transportation system, declaring that starvation
conditions for people throughout Germany were becoming
inevitable.
   In dealing with this comprehensive, three-volume Report, it
is important to stress that the delegates of the International
Red Cross found no evidence whatever at the camps in Axis-
occupied Europe of a deliberate policy to exterminate the Jews.
In all its 1,600 pages the Report does not even mention such a
thing as a gas chamber. It admits that Jews, like many other
wartime nationalities, suffered rigors and privations, but its
complete silence on the subject of planned extermination is
ample refutation of the Six Million legend. Like the Vatican
representatives with whom they worked, the Red Cross found
itself unable to indulge in the irresponsible charges of
genocide which had become the order of the day.
   So far as the genuine mortality rate is concerned, the Report
points out that most of the Jewish doctors from the camps were
being used to combat typhus on the eastern front, so that they
were unavailable when the typhus epidemics of 1945 broke out in
the camps (Vol. I, p. 204 ff). Incidentally, it is frequently
claimed that mass executions were carried out in gas chambers
cunningly disguised as shower facilities. Again the Report makes
nonsense of this allegation. "Not only the washing places, but
installations for baths, showers and laundry were inspected by
the delegates. They had often to take action to have fixtures
made less primitive, and to get them repaired and enlarged"
(Vol. III, p. 594).

                      NOT ALL WERE INTERNED

   Volume III of the Red Cross Report, Chapter 3 (I. Jewish
Civilian Population) deals with the "aid given to the Jewish
section of the free population," and this chapter makes it quite
plain that by no means all of the European Jews were placed in
internment camps, but remained, subject to certain restrictions,
as part of the free civilian population. This conflicts directly
with the "thoroughness" of the supposed "extermination program",
and with the claim of the forged Hoess memoirs that Eichmann was
obsessed with seizing "every single Jew he could lay his hands
on." In Slovakia, for example, where Eichmann's assistant Dieter
Wisliceny was in charge, the Report states that "A large
proportion of the Jewish minority had permission to stay in the
country, and at certain periods Slovakia was looked upon as a
compassionate haven of refugee for Jews, especially for those
coming from Poland. Those who remained in Slovakia seem to have
been in comparative safety until the end of August 1944, when a
rising against the German forces took place. While it is true
the law of May 15th, 1947 had brought about the internment of
several thousand Jews, these people  were held in camps where
the conditions of food and lodging were tolerable, and where the
internees were allowed to do paid work on terms almost equal to
those of the free labor market" (Vol. I, p. 646).
   Not only did large numbers of the three million or so
European Jews avoid internment altogether, but the emigration of
Jews continued throughout the war, generally by way of Hungary,
Rumania and Turkey. Ironically, post-war Jewish emigration from
German-occupied territories was also facilitated by the Reich,
as in the case of the Polish Jews who had escaped to France
before its occupation. "The Jews from Poland who, while in
France, had obtained entrance permits to the United States were
held to be American citizens by the Germans occupying
authorities, who further agreed to recognize the validity of
about three thousand passports issued of Jews by the consulates
of South American countries (Vol. I, p. 645). As further U.S.
citizens, these Jews were held at the Vittel camp in southern
France for American aliens.
   The emigration of European Jews from Hungary in particular
proceeded during the war unhindered by the German authorities.
"Until March 1944," says the Red Cross Report, "Jews who had the
privilege of visas for Palestine were free to leave Hungary"
(Vol. I, p. 648). Even after the replacement of the Horthy
Government in 1944 (following its attempted armistice with the
Soviet Union) with a government more dependent on German
authority, the emigration of Jews continued. The Committee
secured the pledges of both Britain and the United States "to
give support by every means to the emigration of Jews from
Hungary," and from the U.S. Government the ICRC received a
message stating that "The Government of the United States...now
specifically repeats its assurance that arrangements will be
made by it for the care of all Jews who in the present
circumstances are allowed to leave" (Vol. I, p. 649).

        10. THE TRUTH AT LAST: THE WORK OF PAUL RASSINIER

   Without doubt the most important contribution to a truthful
study of the extermination question has been the work of the
French historian, Professor Paul Rassinier. The pre-eminent
value of his work lies firstly in the fact that Rassinier
actually experienced life in the German concentration camps, and
also that, as a Socialist intellectual and anti-Nazi, nobody
could be less inclined to defend Hitler and National Socialism.
Yet, for the sake of justice and historical truth, Rassinier
spent the remainder of his post-war years until his death in
1966 pursuing research which utterly refuted the Myth of the Six
Million and the legend of Nazi diabolism.
   From 1933 until 1943, Rassinier was a professor of history in
the College d'enseignment general at Belfort, Academie de
Besancon. During the war he engaged in resistance activity until
he was arrested by the Gestapo on October 30th, 1943, and as a
result was confined in the German concentration camps at
Buchenwald and Dora until 1945. At Buchenwald, towards the end
of the war, he contracted typhus, which so damaged his health
that he could not resume his teaching. After the war, Rassinier
was awarded the Medaille de la Resistance and the Reconnaisance
Francaise, and was elected to the French Chamber of Deputies,
from which he was ousted by the Communists in November, 1946.
   Rassinier then embarked on his great work, a systematic
analysis of alleged German war atrocities, in particular the
supposed "extermination" of the Jews. Not surprisingly, his
writings are little know; they have rarely been translated from
the French and none at all have appeared in English. His most
important works were: Le Mensonge d'Ulysse (The Lies of
Odysseus, Paris, 1949), an investigation of concentration camp
conditions based on his own experiences of them; and Ulysse
trahi par les Siens (1960), a sequel which further refuted the
impostures of propagandists concerning German concentration
camps. His monumental task was completed with two final volumes,
Le Veritable Proces Eichmann (1962) and Le Drame des Juifs
europeen (1964), in which Rassinier exposed the dishonest and
reckless distortions concerning the fate of the Jews by a
careful statistical analysis. The last work also examines the
political and financial significance of the extermination legend
and its exploitation by Israel and the Communist powers.
   One of the many merits of Rassinier's work is exploding the
myth of unique German "wickedness"; and he reveals with
devastating force how historical truth has been obliterated in
an impenetrable fog of partisan propaganda. His researches
demonstrate conclusively that the fate of the Jews during World
War Two, once freed from distortion and reduced to proper
proportions, loses its much vaunted "enormity" and is seen to be
only one act in a greater and much wider tragedy. In an
extensive lecture tour in West Germany in ghe spring of 1960,
Professor Rassinier emphasised to his German audiences that is
was high time for a rebirth of the truth regarding the
extermination legend, and theat the Germans themselves should
begin it since the allegation remained a wholly unjustifiable
blot on Germany in the eyes of the world.

                 THE IMPOSTURE OF 'GAS CHAMBERS'

    Rassinier entitled his first book The Lies of Odysseus in
commemoration of the fact that travellers always return bearing
tall stories, and until his death he investigated all the
stories of extermination literature and attempted to trace their
authors. He made short work of the extravagant claims about gas
chambers at Buchenwald in David Rousset's The Other Kingdom (New
York, 1947); himself an inmate of Buchenwald, Rassinier proved
that no such things ever existed there (Le Mensonge d'Ulysse, p.
209 ff). Rassinier also traced Abbe Jean-Paul Renard, and asked
him how he could possibly have testified in his book Chaines et
Lumieres that gas chambers were in operation at Buchenwald.
Renard replied that others had told him of their existence, and
hence he had been willing to pose as a witness of things that he
had never seen (ibid, p. 209 ff).
    Rassinier also investigated Denise Dufournier's Ravensbruck:
The Women's Camp of Death (London, 1948) and again found that
the authoress had no other evidence for gas chambers there thatn
the vague "rumours" which Charlotte Bormann stated were
deliberately spread by communist political prisoners. Similar
investigations were made of such books as Philip Friedman's This
was Auschwitz: The Story of a Murder Camp (N.Y., 1946) and Eugen
Kogon's The Theory and Practice of Hell (N.Y., 1950), and he
found that none of these authors could produce and authentic
eye-witness of a gas chamber at Auschwitz, nor had they
themselves actually seen one. Rassinier mentions Kogon's claim
that a deceased former inmate, Janda Weiss, had said to Kogon
alone that she had witnessed gas chambers at Auschwitz, but of
couse, since this person was apparently dead, Rassinier was
unable to investigate the claim. He was able to interview
Benedikt Kautsky, author of Teufel und Verdammte who had alleged
that millions of Jews were exterminated at Auschwitz. However,
Kautsky only confirmed to Rassinier the confession in his book,
namely that never at any time had he seen a gas chamber, and
that he based his information on what others had "told him".
    The palm for extermination literature is awarded by
Rassinier to Miklos Nyizli's Doctor at Auschwitz, in which the
falsification of facts, the evident contradictions and shameless
lies show that the author is speaking of places which it is
obvious he has never seen (Le Drame des Juifs europeen, p. 52).
According to this "doctor of Auschwitz", 25,000 victims were
exterminated every day for four and a half years, which is a
grandiose advance on Olga Lengyel's 24,000 a day for two and a
half years. It would mean a total of forty-one million victims
at Auschwitz by 1945, two and a half times the total pre-war
Jewish population of the world. When Rassinier attempted to
discover the identity of this strange "witness", he was told
that "he had died some time before the publication of the book."
Rassinier is convinced that he was never anything but a mythical
figure.
    Since the war, Rassinier has, in fact, toured Europe in
search of somebody who was an actual eye-witness of gas chamber
exterminations in German concentration camps during World War
Two, but he has never found even one such person. He discovered
that not one of the authors of the many books charging that the
Germans had exterminated millions of Jews had even seen a gas
chamber built for such purposes, much less seen one in
operation, nor could any of these authors produce a living
authentic witness who had done so. Invariably, former prisoners
such as Renard, Kautsky and Kogon based their statements not
upon what they had actually seen, but upon what they "heard",
always from "reliable" sources, who by some chance are almost
always dead and thus not in a position to confirm or deny their
statements.
    Certainly the most important fact to emerge from Rassinier's
studies, and of which there is now no doubt at all, is the utter
imposture of "gas chamber". Serious investigations carried out
in the sites themselves have revealed with irrefutable proof
that, contrary to the declarations of the surviving "witnesses"
examined above, no gas chambers whatever existed in the German
camps at Buchenwald, Bergen-Belsen, Ravensbruck, Dachau and
Dora, or Mauthausen in Austria. This fact, which wer noted
earlier was attested to by Stephen Pinter of the U.S. War
Office, has now been recognised and admitted officially by the
Institute of Contemporary History at Munich. However, Rassinier
points out that in spite of this, "witnesses" again declared at
the Eichmann trail that they had seen prisoners at Bergen-Belsen
setting out for the gas chambers. So far as the eastern camps of
Poland are concerned. Rassinier shows that the sole evidence
attesting to the existence of gas chambers at Treblinka,
Chelmno, Belzec, Maidanek and Sobibor are the discredited
memoranda of Kurt Gerstein referred to above. His original
claim, it will be recalled was that an absurd 40 million people
had been exterminated during the war, while in his first signed
memorandum he reduced the number to 25 million. Further
reductions were made in his second memorandum. These documents
were considered of such dubious authenticity that they were not
even admitted by the Nuremberg Court, though they continue to
circulate in three different versions, one in German
(distributed in schools) and two in Frenc, none of which agee
with each other. The German version featured as "evidence" at
the Eichmann Trial in 196l.
    Finally, Professor Rassinier draws attention to an important
admission by Dr. Kubovy, director of the World Centre of
Contemporary Jewish Documentation at Tel-Aviv, made in La Terre
Retrouvee, December 15th, 1960. Dr. Kubovy recognised that not a
single order for extermination exists from Hitler, Himmler,
Heydrich or Goering (Le Drame des Juifs europeen, p. 31, 39).

                'SIX MILLION' FALSEHOOD REJECTED

    As for the fearful propaganda figure of the Six Million,
Professor Rassinier rejects it on the basis of an extremely
detailed statistical analysis. He shows that the number has been
falsely established, on the one had through inflation of the
pre-war Jewish population by ignoring all emigration and
evacuation, and on the other by a corresponding deflation of the
number of survivors after 1945. This was the method used by the
World Jewish Congress. Rassinier also rejects any written or
oral testimony to the Six Million given by the kind of
"witnesses" cited above, since they are full of contradictions,
exaggerations and falsehoods. He gives the example of Dachau
casualties, noting that in 1946, Pastor Niemoller reiterated
Auerbach's Fraudulent "238,000" deaths there, while in 1962
Bishop Neuhausseler of Munich stated in a speech at Dachau that
only 30,000 people died "of the 200,000 perons from thirty-eight
nations who were interned there" (Le Drame des Juifs europeen,
p. 12).  Today, the estimate has been reduced by several more
thousands, and so it goes on. Rassinier concludes, too, that
testimony in support of the Six Million given by accused men
such as Hoess, Hoettl, Wisliceny and Hoellriegel, who were faced
with the prospect of being condemned to death or with the hope
of obtaining a reprieve, and who were frequently tortured during
their detention, is completely untrustworthy.
    Rassinier finds it very significant that the figure of Six
Million was not mentioned in court during the Eichmann trial.
"The prosecution at the Jerusalem trail was considerably
weakened by its central motif, the six million European Jews
alleged to have been exterminated in gas chambers. It was an
argument that easily won conviction the day after the war ended,
amidst the general state of spiritual and material chaos. Today,
may documents have been published which were not available at
the time of the Nuremberg trials, and which tend to prove that
if the Jewish nationals were wronged and persecuted by the
Hitler regime, there could not possibly have been six million
victims" (ibid, p. 125).
    With the help of one hundred pages of cross-checked
statistics, Professor Rassinier concludes in Le Drame des Juifs
europeen that the number of Jewish casualties during the Second
World War could not have exceeded 1,200,000, and he notes that
this has finally been accepted as valid by the World Centre of
Contemporary Jewish Documentation at Paris. However, he regards
such a figure as a maximum limit, and refers to the lower
estimate of 896,892 casualties in a study of the same problem by
the Jewish statisticial Raul Hilberg. Rassinier points out that
the State of Israel nevertheless continues to claim compensation
for six million dead, each one representing an indemnity of
5,000 marks.

                EMIGRATION:   THE FINAL SOLUTION

    Prof. Rassinier is emphatic in stating that the German
Government never had any plicy other thatn the emigration of
Jews overseas. He shows that after the promulgation of the
Nuremberg Race Laws in September 1935, the Germans negotiated
with the British for the transfer of German Jews to Palestine on
the basis of the Balfour Declaration. When this failed, they
asked other countries to take charge of them, but these refused
(ibid, p. 20). The Palestine project was revived in 1938, but
broke down because Germany could not negotiate their departure
on the basis of 3,000,000 marks, as demanded by Britain, without
some agreement for compensation. Despite these difficulties,
Germany did manage to secure the emigration of the majority of
their Jews, mostly to the United States. Rassinier also refers
to the French refusal of Germany's Madagascar plan at the end of
1940. "In a report of the 21st August, 1942, the Secretary of
State for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Third Reich,
Luther, decided that it would be possible to negotiate with
France in this direction and described conversations which has
taken place between July and December 1940, and which were
brought to a halt following the interview with Montoire on 13th
December 1940 by Pierre-Etienne Flandin, Laval's successor.
During the whole of 1941 the Germans hoped that they would be
able to re-open these negotiations and bring them to a happy
conclustion" (ibid, p. 108).
    After the outbreak of war, the Jews, who, as Rassinier
reminds us, had declared economic and financial was on Germany
as early as 1933, were interned in concentration camps, "which
is the way countries all over the world treat enemy aliens in
time of war . . . It was decided to regroup them and put them to
work in one immense ghetto which, after the successful invasion
of Russia, was situated toward the end of 194l in the so-called
Eastern territories near the former frontier between Russia and
Poland: at Auschwitz, Chelmno, Belze, Maidanek, Treblinka etc...
There they were to wait until end of the war for the reopening
of international discussions which would decide their future"
(Le Veritable Proces Eichmann, p. 20). The order for this
concentration in the eastern ghetto was given by Goering to
Heydrich, as noted earlier, and it was regarded as a prelude to
"the desired final solution," their emigration overseas after
the war had ended.

                         ENORMOUS FRAUD

    Of great concern to Professor Rassinier is the way in which
the extermination legend is deliberately exploited for political
and financial advantage, and in this he finds Israel and the
Soviet Union to be in concert. He notes how, after 1950, an
avalanche of fabricated extermination literature appeared under
the stamp of two organisations, so remarkably synchronised in
their activities that one might well believe them to have been
contrived in partnership. One was the "Committee for the
Investigation of War Crimes and Criminals" established under
Communist auspices at Warsaw, and the other, the "World Centre
of Contemporary Jewish Documentation" at Paris and Tel-Aviv.
Their publications seem to appear at favourable moments in the
political climate, and for the Soviet Union their purpose is
simply to maintain the threat of Nazism as a manoeuvre to divert
attention from their own activities.
    As for Israel, Rassinier sees the myth of the Six Million as
inspired by a purely material problem. In Le Drame des Juifs
europeen (P. 31, 39). he writes:
    "... It is simply a question of justifying by a
proportionate number of corpses the enormous subsidies which
Germany has been paying annually since the end of the war to the
State of Israel by way of reparation for injuries which moreover
she cannot be held to have caused her either morally or legally,
since there was no State of Israel at the time the alleged deeds
took place; thus it is a purely and contemptibly material
problem.
    "Perhaps I may be allowed to recall here that the State of
Israel was only founded in May 1948 and that the Jews were
nationals of all states with the exception of Israel, in order
to underline the dimenstions of a fraud which defies description
in any language; on the one hand Germany pays to Israel sums
which are calculated on six million dead, and on the other,
since at least four-fifths of these six million were decidedly
alive at the end of the war, she is paying substantial sums by
way of reparation to the victims of Hitler's Germany to those
who are still alive in countries all over the world other than
Israel and to the rightful claimants of those who have since
deceased, which means that for the former (i.e. the six
million), or in other words, for the vast majority, she is
paying twice."

                           CONCLUSION

    Here we may briefly summarise the data on Jewish wartime
casualties.
    Contrary to the figure of over 9 million Jews in German-
occupied territory put forward at the Nuremberg and Eichmann
trials, it has already been established that after extensive
emigration, approximately 3 million were living in Europe,
excluding the Soviet Union. Even when the Jews of German-
occupied Russia are included (the majority of Russian Jews were
evacuated beyond German control), the overall number probably
does not exceed four million. Himmler's statistician, Dr.
Richard Korherr and the World Centre of Contemporary Jewish
Documentation put the number respectively at 5,550,000 and
5,294,000 when German-occupied territory was at its widest, but
both these figures include the two million Jews of the Baltic
and western Russia without paying any attention to the large
number of these who were evacuated. However, it is at least an
admission from the latter organisation that there were not even
six million Jews in Europe and western Russia combined.
     Nothing better illustrates the declining plausibility of
the Six Million legend than the fact that the prosecution at the
Eichmann trial deliberately avoided mentioning the figure.
Moreover, official Jewish estimates of the casualties are being
quietly revised downwards. Our analysis of the population and
emigration statistics, as well as the studies by the Swiss
Baseler Nachrichten and Professor Rassinier, demonstrate that it
would have been simply impossible for the number of Jewish
casualties to have exceeded a limit of one and a half million.
It is very significant, therefore, that the World Centre of
Contemporary Jewish Documentation in Paris now states that only
1,485,292 Jews died from all causes during the Second World War,
and although this figure is certainly too high, at least it
bears no resemblance at all to the legendary Six Million. As has
been noted earlier, the Jewish statistician Raul Hilberg
estimates an even lower figure of 896,892. Thuis is beginning to
approach a realistic figure, and the process of revision is
certain to continue.
    Doubtless, several thousand Jewish persons did die in the
course of the Second World War, but this must be seen in the
context of a war that cost many millions of innocent victims on
all sides. To put the matter in perspective, for example, we may
point out that 700,000 Russian civilians died during the siege
of Leningrad, and a total of 2,050,000 German civilian were
killed in Allied air raids and forced repatriation after the
war. In 1955, another neutral Swiss source, Die Tat of Zurich
(January 19th, 1955), in a survey of all Second World War
casualties based on figures of the INternational Red Cross, put
the "Loss of victims of persecution because of politics, race or
religion who died in prisons and concentration camps between
1939 and 1945" at 300,000, not all of whom were Jews, and this
figure seems the most accurate assessment.

                       IMAGINARY SLAUGHTER

    The question most pertinent to the extermination legend is,
of course: how many of the 3 million European Jews under German
control survived after 1945? The Jewish Joint Distribution
Committee estimated the number of survivors in Europe to be only
one and a half million, but such a figure is not totally
unacceptable. This is proved by the growing number of Jews
claiming compensation from the WEst German Government for having
allegedly suffered between 1939 and 1945. By 1965, the number of
these claimants registered with the West German Government had
tripled in ten years and reached 3,375,000 (Aufbau, June 30th,
1965). Nothing could be a more devastating proof of the brazen
fantasy of the Six Million. Most of these claimants are Jews, so
there can be no doubt that the majority of the 3 million Jews
who experienced the Nazi occupation of Europe are, in fact, very
much alive. It is a resounding confirmation of the fact that
Jewish casualties during the Second World War can only be
estimated at a figure in thousands. Surely this is enough grief
for the Jewish people? Who has the right to compound it with
vast imaginary slaughter, marking with eternal shame a great
European nation, as well as wringing faudulent monetary
compensation from them?
----------------------------------------------------------------
RICHARD HARWOOD is a writer and specialist in political and
diplomatic aspects of the Second World War. At present he is
with the University of London. Mr. Harwood turned to the vexed
subject of war crimes under the influence of Professor Paul
Rassinier, to whose monumental work this little volume is
greatly indebted. The author is now working on a sequel in this
series on the Main Nuremberg Trial, 1945-1946.