
--SOVIET SCALAR ELECTROMAGNETIC WEAPONS--
 
     This briefing presents the basic concepts of Soviet Scalar 
electromagnetic weapons, some of the major types available, and evidence of 
their widespread testing. 
 
- Scalar Electromagnetics is Electrogravitation -
 
     Scalar electromagnetics is an extension of present electromagnetics (EM) 
to include gravitation. That is, a unified electrogravitation, and, what is 
more important, it is a unified engineering theory. Its basis was discovered 
by Nikola Tesla. 

     In the scalar EM extension, EM field energy can be turned into
gravitational field energy and vice versa. This exchange can be patterned and 
localized, in specific areas and objects. Such a controlled change of 
electromagnetics to gravitation is not possible in the normal EM or physics 
presently taught in Western textbooks. However, the bits and pieces of the 
theory have been scattered through the physics literature for some time, but 
no orthodox western scientist seems to have realized that these anomalous 
portions could be integrated into a startling new physics. Unorthodox 
experimenters, inventors, and scientists have made discoveries in this arena 
for several decades, but again have not realized the exact implications or
the precise manner in which their results could be combined with present 
electrical physics. 
 
- Fer-De-Lance -
 
     Such sluggishness is certainly not present in the Soviet Union. For
over three decades, the Soviet Union has been developing electrogravitation
and app,ying it to develop strange new s%cret weapons of incredible power
and capability. They have sustained the largest weapons development program
ever launched by any nation, and they have kept it effectively hidden from 
prying western eyes. I have called this program "Fer-De-Lance", after the 
deadly South American pit viper of the same name. 

     The dreaded fer-de-lance is a snake of great agility and lethal effect.
It often ambushes its hapless prey, and strikes unexpectedly and without 
warning. Its first sudden strike is usually lethal to its victim, which 
promptly expires in writhing agony. Since the Soviet development of scalar EM 
weapons has been designed for the same purpose, the name seems appropriate. 

     The equivalent effort of about seven Manhattan projects has been poured
into fer-de-lance by the Soviets, and the program has been successful almost 
beyond imagination. The eerie weapons are now developed, deployed, and
tested.  The ambush has been completed; Fer-de-Lance is coiled and ready to
strike. 
 


--ENERGETICS AND DIRECTED ENERGY WEAPONS (DEW'S)--
 
     The ordinary Soviet name for this type of weapons science is
energetics. In the west that term is believed to be associated with
conventional directed energy weapons (DEWs) such as particle beam weapons,
lasers, radio-frequency (RF) directed energy devices, etc. The Soviets do not
limit the term in this way. 

     Western scientists are familiar only with directed energy weapons
where fragments, masses, photons, or particles travel through space and
contact the target to deliver their effects. Hence in their thinking they
limit the Soviet term "energetics" to the type of weapons they themselves
understand -- exotic but normal weapons using energy or mass traveling 
through space to impact a target. 

     However, it is possible to focus the potential for the effects of a
weapon through spacetime itself, in a manner so that mass and energy do not
"travel through space" from the transmitter to the target at all. Instead,
ripples and patterns in the fabric of spacetime itself are manipulated to
meet and interfere in and at the local spacetime of some distant target. 
There interference of these ripple patterns creates the desired energetic 
effect (hence the term energetics) directly in and through the target itself, 
emerging from the very spacetime (vacuum) in which the target is imbedded at 
its distant location. As used by the Soviets, energetics refers to these 
eerie new superweapons, as well as to the more mundane DEWs known to the 
west. 

     As a consequence of the Soviet breakthrough and decades of feverish
development, monstrous strategic weapons undreamed of in the West are
already in Soviet hands. A noose is slowly and steadily being tightened about
our throats, and it is already the 11th hour. 
 
--THE SOVIETS USE A DECEPTION PLAN--
 
     Concomitant with this supersecret development program, the Soviets
developed and implemented an elaborate deception plan to conceal these 
startling weapons and their nature from Western eyes until it is too late. 
Soviet deception has been so successful that even when Western scientists are 
confronted with the actual tests of these weapons directly over their heads, 
they do not recognize the weaponry nor the nature of the effects produced. 
    
     As early as January 1960, Nikita Khrushchev announced the Soviet
development of a new, fantastic weapon. 

     On April 10 1963 one of the first new superweapons operationally
deployed was used to destroy  the U.S.S. Thresher atomic submarine
underwater, off the east coast of the U.S. The next day, April 11, 1963 the 
same deployed superweapon was utilized in a different mode to produce a giant 
underwater explosion in the ocean over the Puerto Rican Trench, 100 miles 
north of Puerto Rico. 

     Over the years, various aircraft were interfered with or downed as
tests of these Soviet weapons. A particular case involved the mysterious
loss of F-111s in the Vietnam conflict. At least one downed F-111 crew was
recovered in the subsequent prisoner of war exchange. On that aircraft all
electrical systems were in difficulty simultaneously. This was probably due 
to special Soviet teams converting some North Vietnamese SA-2 missile system 
radars to the scalar EM mode, and employing "scalar beam" interference to 
produce spurious EM noise throughout the electrical and electronic systems of 
the aircraft. 


     In late April/early May of 1985, the entire armada of Soviet strategic
scalar EM superweapons was activated as a special celebration of the 40th 
anniversary of the end of W.W.II. Activation of this armada (which probably 
contained over 100 giant weapons), together with 27 giant power systems and a 
large number of command and control transmissions, was monitored on an 
advanced, proprietary detection system by Frank Golden. After the gigantic 
strategic exercise, which lasted several days, most of the weapons and power 
sources were once again stood down to "standby." 

     The NASA shuttle launches provided an convenient opportunity for Soviet
testing of these superweapons in a launch phase ABM mode, where a launched 
missile can be detected and destroyed shortly after liftoff. At first, 
electromagnetic pulse (EMP) bursts on the early shuttle trajectory were 
deliberately delayed in time, to prevent actual destruction of the target and 
avoid alerting the U.S. that something unusual was happening. 

     The shuttle launch of November 26, 1985 saw a particularly significant
test of this kind. In this case, a very loud "sonic boom" or explosion
occurred over the launch site 12 minutes after shuttle liftoff, when the 
shuttle was already away and downrange. At least two previous shuttle 
launches had also been used as pseudotargets, with delayed booms occurring 
over the launch site well behind the vehicles. 

     After lack of U.S. reaction to these tests showed that the U.S. still
had no knowledge of the new technology and did not even recognize its
employment, the Soviets apparently decided to proceed with tests where the 
target would actually be destroyed. 

     On December 12, 1985 the same Soviet weapon tested against the NASA
shuttle launches deliberately interfered with the controls of an Arrow DC-8
taking off from Gander Air Force Base, Newfoundland. At an altitude of 100 
feet, the aircraft--carrying over 250 U.S. soldiers and civilian crew 
members lost power and sank into the ground tail-low, killing everyone on 
board.  Three Canadian witnesses to the crash were interviewed over the 
Canadian Broadcast Corporation's television news on April 8,1986 at 10 p.m. 
No flame or smoke issued from the plane before its descent and crash. However 
the aircraft was seen to be mysteriously glowing with a yellow glow. That is 
a signature of the use of a scalar howitzer in the "continuous EM emergence" 
mode, similar to the manner in which the F-111s were downed in Vietnam. In 
short, the DC-8s electrical systems were interfered with ny electromagnetic 
noise created throughout the spacetime occupied by the aircraft. The powerful 
charge created in and around the aircraft also apparently caused the loss of 
two engines, one after the other. With its controls ineffective, and its 
power drastically reduced, the aircraft sank to earth, still in its "tail 
down" configuration from takeoff, and crashed and burned. The "yellow glow" 
was a corona due to the acquisition of a high electrical charge by the skin 
of the aircraft. 

     Other factors contributing to the crash may have been reduced lift due
to poor engine maintenance, increased weight of the aircraft due to icing, 
and heavy loading. Still, no one has recognized the significance of the 
"yellow glow" or what it implies, or the possible connection between the loss 
of the aircraft and previous Soviet testing of a Launch Phase ABM system 
against U.S. shuttle launches... 
 


     As of September 1987, the last two Air Force Titan 34-D missiles fired 
from Vandenburg Air Force Base in California have blown up shortly after 
launch. The first one blew up on Aug. 28, 1985 just after lift-off. That loss 
had been attributed to failure of a high powered fuel pump, causing a massive 
oxidizer leak and a smaller fuel leak. The second Titan loss occurred on 
April 18, 1986 when the missile blew up 5 seconds after lift off. Its loss is 
still under investigation and no determination of cause has been made. 
Apparently the shuttle and the Titan presently provide the only viable launch 
vehicles for launching U.S. "spy" satellites. The loss of these sensitive 
satellites--if indeed they constituted the payloads--cannot help but be 
damaging to our strategic capability. According to the Los Angeles Times 
(in 1986) the single remaining KH-11 satellite was launched in December 1984 
and, with an expected life of two to three years, could stop functioning 
later this year. 

     Whether or not significant Woodpecker grid activity existed in the 
vicinity of the Titan launch of August 1985 is unknown at this time. However, 
significant activity in the grid definitely occurred before the April 18 
Titan disaster and on the same day. 

     On Easter Sunday, Mar. 30,1986 engineer Ron Cole observed significant 
correlated with Soviet Woodpecker measurements. On April 18, T.E Bearden, 
perhaps the head of SEM research today, observed traces of a cloud radial 
over Huntsville, Alabama and took photographs of it. Preliminary reports from 
Thousand Oaks Ca. indicate extensive grid activity again on April 18, the day 
the second Titan exploded. 

     At least the second of these two missile destructions shortly after 
launch is suspicious, since the grid positively was active during that time. 
Also, a clear trail of Launch Phase ABM system indicators exists back to the 
massive scalar exercise of April/May 1985. The first Titan explosion in Aug. 
1985 thus falls within the Soviets "now lets test them against the U.S. 
launch vehicles" period. The second Titan loss follows highly suspicious 
losses of the Arrow DC-8 on Dec. 12, 1985 and the Challenger on Jan. 28, 
1986. The same Soviet weapon that destroyed those Ñ#gets may have also 
destroyed one or both of the critical Titans. 

     The Soviets also have been able to significantly engineer the weather 
over North America for more than a decade without being found out. They have 
tested a fantastic range of anti-ballistic missile (ABM) defense weapons for 
over two decades, and no one is the wiser in the West. 

     As previously stated, prior to the end of November, 1985, at least three 
"wet-run" tests of a Soviet "launch phase ABM system" against actual U.S. 
shuttle launches were made directly over Cape Canaveral itself, and still no 
one recognized what was happening or what sort of weapon was being tested. On 
December 12, destruction of the Arrow DC-8 in Newfoundland produce no 
indications that the Americans and Canadians knew anything about the nature 
of the weapon possibly used. 

     Accordingly, after a sufficient wait to test our reactions (if any), the 
Soviets prepared to actually destroy a shuttle after its launch... 

 

--DESTRUCTION OF THE CHALLENGER, JANUARY, 1986--
 
     As the whole world knows, on January 28, 1986 the Challenger was 
launched from Cape Canaveral Florida after exposure to undesirable weather 
conditions, and disastrously exploded shortly after launch. The evidence 
seems to indicate that , as the rising vehicle was stressed, one end of its 
right booster broke loose, twisting away and into the main fuel tank, causing 
rupture, spillage of the fuel, and catastrophic explosion. Several other 
anomalies still exist however, and it is clear that a problem existed with at 
least one of the booster seals. All seven astronauts aboard the flight were 
killed in the fiery destruction of the vehicle. 

    Of course no one had recognized that the Soviets had already tested a 
launch-phase anti-ballistic missile (LPABM) system against three of our 
previous shuttle launches. These "wet-runs" used a deliberate "time-offset" 
to delay the explosive emergence of electromagnetic energy in a launched 
shuttle's location along its trajectory. The delayed test shots resulted in 
very large "booms" above the launch site after the shuttle was safely out of 
the area, but did not destroy the shuttles themselves. For example, the 
delayed shot-boom occurred 12 minutes after the evening launch of Nov. 26, 
1985. Even a marker beacon (large light in the sky) was utilized on that 
launch shortly after lift-off. The marker beacon was photographed. In 
addition another photograph taken in a time sequence shows another sudden 
streak of light coming down and ending in a burst of light. This was probably 
a spacially-offset test of the "pulse mode" for destroying the shuttle. The 
"light burst" would have been detected in the Soviet Union and scored against 
its intended offset position. However, another mechanism was used to cause 
the destruction of the shuttle itself. 

     On Jan. 1, 1986 the presence of a metal softening signal added on to the 
Soviet LPABM systems scalar EM transmissions was detected by a surprised 
Frank Golden. The metal softening ability of the detected signal was 
experimentally verified by him at that time. Golden also locally nullified 
the action of the scalar EM signal in a test, rather conclusively 
establishing (1) that it existed and (2) what it was. The signal was 
apparently being prepared for use against an upcoming U.S. shuttle launch. 

     Just prior to the launch of the shuttle in late January, 1986, the 
Soviets accomplished significant weather engineering over the U.S. The jet 
stream was severely bent southward in the middle of the U.S., bending right-
ward again to move across the Florida panhandle. Icy cold air from Canada was 
drawn far down, into Florida and onto the Challenger sitting on it launch 
pad. This exposure to cold outside its tested range was probably an 
additional factor contributing to the Challengers failure. Positive 
signatures of the Soviet weather engineering and jet stream manipulation 
were observed and photographed by several persons, particularly in Alabama 
and California... 
 

     On January 28, 1986, the Soviet scalar EM weapon system effects were 
sharply localized in the launch zone. Localization involved higher 
frequencies being present; these are quite painful to small brains--whose 
hemispheres act as a scalar interferometer and detector--such as in birds. 
As commented upon by national news commentators, strangely the birds were not 
flying that morning. Indeed, they were staying down on the ground or avoiding 
the area, since the sky over the area was painful to them. 

     As Challenger rose, the metal softening signal would have been 
experienced in and around the boosters shortly after ignition, since the 
booster flame acts as a special "ion-plasma" tuner/detector for the scalar 
signal. The effect of such a local signal is to "charge mass in the immediate 
vicinity" with the particular scalar resonance signal. 

     The ill fated Challenger was doomed. After ignition, the booster flame 
acted as as a ionic plasma detector/amplifier for the metal softening signal 
on the Soviet Woodpecker grid. The metal in and around the booster flame was 
slowly and steadily weakening due to a charge up with the metal softening 
pattern. This contributed to booster leakage from the already cold damaged 
seal. The leaking booster poured out smoke and later flame, contributing to 
the impending disaster. 

     Substantial winds and air turbulence over the site increased the stress 
on the Challenger as it rose through this region. This also contributed to 
the disaster and may have been deliberately created there by Soviet Weather 
engineering. 

     As the Challenger stressed, eventually one or more weakened mounts gave 
way, partially freeing the end of the right booster. Another anomalous flame 
or light was observed on the vehicle, and may have represented a very small 
additional "pulse mode energy form" produced from the weapon that was already 
attacking the Challenger. The booster oscillated, rotating into the tank and 
rupturing it. Contact of the escaping liquid fuel and the flame resulted in a 
fiery explosion, destroying the vehicle and killing those on board... 
 
      By creating excess cold exposure to the shuttle, inducing metal 
softening in and around the ignited booster, and possibly adding a deliberate 
"intensely hot spot", THE SOVIETS CAUSED THE CHALLENGER TO WEAKEN AND DESTROY 
ITSELF SHORTLY AFTER LAUNCH, IN SO SUBTLE A FASHION THAT NASA SCIENTISTS 
WOULD NOT SUSPECT WHAT HAD ACTUALLY CAUSED THE MISHAP. THE SOVIETS HAD ALSO 
PREVIOUSLY WITHDRAWN ALL THEIR TRAWLERS AND SHIPS WHICH NORMALLY SHADOW A 
SHUTTLE LAUNCH, TO PREVENT ANY SUGGESTION OF SOVIET PRESENCE NEAR OR 
INVOLVEMENT IN THE CATASTROPHIC ACCIDENT. 

      A few days later, sporadically intense "high frequency localization 
signals" were still present on the grid, at least one hinge-point at 
Birmingham, Alabama confirmed this. From 1-4 February 1986, many birds 
inadvertently flew into the zone when an intense breakout occurred, and birds 
fell dead from the sky in substantial numbers.... 
 
Next:
-Technological Surprise and a New Hiroshima-
 
(Continued)


      Sadly, the bureaucratic smugness of orthodox Western scientists has 
materially assisted the Soviet deception process. Most Western managerial 
scientists -particularly in weapons development activities - have continued 
to view the Soviets as ignorant peasants, still trying to clean the mud off 
their boots. This view is of course, Totally untrue and unwarranted. 

      It takes only a few examples to refute this attitude. In nonlinear 
mathematics, engineering and science, the Soviets have led their Western 
counterparts since the beginning. The electromagnetic pulse (EMP) effect of a 
nuclear explosion appeared in the ordinary Soviet scientific literature 
before Western scientists were even aware that te effect existed. The Soviets 
continue to lead the world in explosive welding, titanium welding and 
forming, etc. While the Soviet scientists exhibit little inclination to build 
good washing machines, they certainly do produce state of the art 
technology-- and beyond-- in any area in which they focus their main efforts. 
(We do lead the Soviets in some areas such as computers hardware, computer 
software, miniaturization, etc.)

      Once before, a modern nation, the United States, developed a mighty 
weapon in secrecy and used it to force a powerful foe, Japan, to its knees... 
The mindbending atomic blows to Hiroshima, and Nagasaki, showed once and for 
all that in the modern age technological surprise can prove instantly 
disastrous. Yet in our scientific arrogance, we have assumed that it could 
never happen to us, and that the "secret weapon" scenario will never be 
repeated. On the contrary, it HAS happened again, someone else has done it, 
and it has happened to us. 

       It has also become fashionable in the West to believe that all the 
laws of physics are already discovered. We assume we know all of them. While 
we have been pridefully crowing this tune, the Soviets have been steadily new 
laws in secret, as well as new ways to circumvent the old laws. 
 Our defense is strategic, we rely on our offense. Our huge nuclear arsenal..
If this offense were nullified or destroyed by Soviet secret weapons, we 
would be powerless to prevent our own destruction and Soviet domination of 
our world.

       We have been viewing ourselves as indestructible, confident in the 
strength of our defense. Yet literally our defense has been stripped from us. 
Indeed Soviet energetics weapons are now capable of destroying our defense, 
our homeland, our armed forces in the field, and our population, quickly and 
efficiently. We have a new gap of monumental proportions: not a missile gap, 
not  a submarine or bomber gap, and not even a particle beam or laser gap. 
We have a "Scalar Electromagnetics or Electrogravitation" gap.....
 
 
       He that has ears, let him hear.

       Here is the secret of antigravity.

       The "electrical charge" of a charged particle-- such as one of the 
charged particles of an atom or one of the protons of its nucleus-- 
represents a difference in flux intensity (potential) between the local 
particle and its ambient vacuum.  Its the continual bleed-off of 
gravitational charge as electrical charge.  If that bleed off is reversed or 
stopped, a drastic effect on the gravitational charge ensues. The 5-potential 
and the 5-charge have become 4-G-potential and 4-d-charge respectively.  Thus 
"charging" an object with its scalar EM pattern charges it gravitationally.  
Now the only "bleed off channel" is through the 4-G force field. Further, 
in a nucleus the nucleons continually back and forth between proton and 
neutron, so the electrical charge is "spread" throughout the nucleus and 
shared by all the nucleons. 

       Further, each element (actually each isotope) has its own unique 
"ensemble pattern" of Fourier expansion scalar frequencies, amplitudes, ect. 
This pattern can, of course, be reproduced artificially and transmitted by 
modified EM transmitters). There is, however, a sort of "master key" scalar 
EM (EG) pattern for nucleons (protons and neutrons which are changing back 
and forth into each other by exchange of virtual charge currents). 

        If one reverses the charge by inverting this pattern, and then 
"charges up a mass with the inverted charge," to the external observer the 
charging mass just gets lighter and lighter, and its inertia gets less and 
less. Eventually it seems (to him) to acquire negative mass and negative 
inertia, and just accelerate away from the earth. the object falls upward 
instead of falling downwards.

       There are also some weird time effects; that object can be moving 
slower through time than the laboratory observer, or even be moving backwards 
through time in respect to the laboratory observer. (Don't believe everything 
they taught you in relativity; none of those guys ever had engineered a 
single general relativistic situation. &othing they teach in GR is based on 
direct experiment. Most of what they teach has already experimentally proven 
to be in error. 


       This is the concept for a scalar EG detector for a scalar EG waves. 
This is the Bendini scalar wave detector, adapted from an original concept by 
Dea and Faretto. 

       The idea is quite simple: install a very powerful bar magnet inside a
grounded Faraday cage. Then install an open-ended coil longitudally above the
magnet so that a line through the longitudal axis of the magnet passes 
through the longitudal axis of the coil above it. The open end of the coil 
does not touch the magnet. 

        Connect the other end of the coil to a variable tuning capacitor, so 
that the coil and the capacitor form a tunable, series-L-C-oscillatory 
circuit. The output of the capacitor is connected to a transistorized 
preamplifier inside the cage. A tuning shaft for the capacitor is very 
carefully placed through a small hole in the shield to allow tuning from 
outside. 

         The output of the preamp passes through a small hole in the shield, 
through a shielded cable, to an adjacent oscilloscope. The cable shield is 
also grounded t a reference ground potential. 
 
         The theory is as follows: Suppose a normal EM wave appears inside 
the cage, above the magnet or closely adjacent thereto. In that case a 
coupled oscillation appears in the field of the magnet, and this oscillation 
is coupled to the coil immediately above it. If the oscillation is within the 
bandwidth of the tuned series LC circuit, detection occurs. This is amplified 
by the preamp and passed to the oscilloscope, where it is displayed on the 
scope. 

         Note that the detector detects normal EM wave. Now our problem is: 
How do we get an EG wave to be detected? And how do we assure that we do not 
detect ordinary EM waves from the outside?  Actually this is simple. Ordinary 
waves (except for quite low frequency) will be grounded out by the Faraday 
shield, and will not penetrate the cage. Thus these normal EM waves cannot 
enter the cage and appear above the magnet. They will not be detected. Scalar 
EG waves, on the other hand, will enter the cage since they do not couple to 
conduction electrons in the metal of the cage. Above the pole of the magnet, 
spacetime is locally bent.  After all, a pole is a magnetostatic scalar 
potential, which is a part of the conglomerate called "G-potential." The pole 
represents an increase (or decrease, depending on whether it is a north or a 
south pole) in the magnetostatic component of the local G-potential. This is a 
curvature of spacetime. An EG wave entering this region adds a varying 
component component of magnetostatic G-potential, which bleeds off in the coil 
as an ordinary EM wave. 
        
         Another way to view the detector is to model the EG wave as a 
longitudal wave, and an ordinary EM wave as a transverse wave. When the EG 
wave enters the curved spacetime region above the magnet, to the coil (the 
"observer" in this case!) the longitudal aspect of the EG wave appears to be 
rotating back and forth, so that an oscillating transverse component is 
present. This transverse component appears to the coil as an ordinary EM 
field, and so the LC circuit detects it if it is in the proper frequency 
band. 

         Yet another way to view the situation is to realize that an EG wave 
entering the magnet results in an oscillating component added to the 
magnetostatic scalar potential (pole strength) of t8e magnet. Accordingly, 
the magnet is a receiver for scalar waves, which are detected to "bleed-off" 
as an oscillation of the magnetic field strength of the magnet. Coupling of 
this oscillating magnetic field to the coil creates an oscillating current 
flow into the capacitor. This oscillates the voltage input to the preamp, 
which amplifies and feeds the signal to the oscilloscope for display. 
 
      
         It is important to remember that a magnetostatic potential and an 
electrostatic potential can be oscillated by a scalar EG wave. By placing a 
magnetic material inside a Faraday cage, the oscillation of the magnetostatic 
scalar potential (pole strength of the magnet) can be used as the EG 
detecting mechanism. By placing a chargeable material inside a Faraday cage, 
the oscillation of the electrostatic scalar potential can be detected. 
(Possible examples of the latter type detectors are given by Hodowanec,"Radio 
Electronics," April 1986.) 

         Note also that one may detect waves at one reference level and not 
at another. Changing the bias on the zero-reference ground of the Bendini 
detector affects the detection. To look inside a normal EM carrier (such as 
the Soviet Woodpecker carrier) and see what scalar signals are riding upon 
it, the carrier may be used to bias the reference ground of the Bendini 
detector. To produce a spectrum analyzer, simply use additional series 
resonant LC tuning circuits in parallel (put multiple taps on the coil, and 
wire each tap to a separate tuning capacitor of different capacitance). 
Again, varying the zero reference level is important, as is varying  the 
strength of the magnet. Frank Golden has also invented an excellent series of 
scalar wave detectors based on quite different proprietary principles.

         The bottom line is: we can indeed rigorously detect and measure 
scalar EG waves. When one considers the large sums of money presently being 
spent to bury large aluminum cylinders etc. in an attempt to detect 
gravitational waves, one wonders why some funds could not be released to a 
few unorthodox researchers by the National Academy of Sciences to fund the 
proven creation and detection of electrogravitational waves... 

(Continued)


      Here is explained a new kind of resonance: scalar EM resonance, or 
electrogravitational resonance. 

      First, imagine we have a standard resonant cavity. In this cavity we 
have a resonant EM wave moving back and forth. In accordance with convention, 
the E-field vector and the B-field vector are at right angles in this moving 
wave front. As the wave moves back and forth, the vectors vary back and 
forth; however, at any one point between the walls, the two vectors always 
have the same value. Thus our resonant EM wave forms a standing wave in the 
cavity. 

      Now imagine that a second wave front, precisely like the first and of 
the same frequency, is superposed over the first one and travels with it. 
This second wave -- the "antiwave" -- has its force vectors 180 degrees out 
of phase with the force vectors of the reference wave. Hence the E-fields 
and B-fields of the two superposed waves always sum to vector zeros, anywhere 
in the cavity. To an external observer, the cavity contains no ordinary 
electromagnetic force fields, hence no ordinary EM energy. 

      However the energy density of a single EM sine wave in vacuum is given 
by:

 density  2
 [ E  +  B  ]/8pi
 
      This energy density is always positive. Hence the energy density of the 
two waves at any point X between the walls is equal to: 

 
    2    2
 [ E  + B ]/4pi
 
   where
 
E=E(x) ; B=B(x)
 
      Thus the energy density of vacuum varies with X. But, rigorously, since 
the resultant E and B fields are zero, this describes a standing 
gravitational wave. Hence we have a standing EG wave existing in the cavity. 
This is an example of scalar resonance. Rigorously the cavity has mass and 
inertia, to an outside observer, as a result of the two warps in spacetime it 
contains. 

      Note that in one half cycle the energy density of vacuum is greater 
than ambient, and in the other half cycle it is less. In the region of one 
half cycle, time flows at a faster rate than to the ambient observer, and in 
the other half cycle time flows at a slower rate than to the ambient 
observer.  One half cycle appears to contain negative electrical charge, and 
the other appears to contain positive charge. 

      One half cycle appears to contain a north pole (positive magnetostatic 
scalar potential), and the other half cycle appears to contain a south pole 
(negative magnetostatic scalar potential). 

      Perhaps n/w one can begin to understand why a continuously accelerated 
orbital electron in the atom does not radiate EM energy, completely in 
violation of Maxwell's equations. The electron is naught but a complex aspect 



      Scalar resonance is not in the conventional textbook.

      Scalar resonance is a particular zero summed multi-resonance, 
electromagnetically, so that it does not act in an electromagnetic manner. 

      A scalar resonance is a standing electromagnetic wave. It can be made
electrically, but is not electrical in behavior.

      In any scalar resonance, spacetime is curved, and it is the magnitude 
(and direction) of this spacetime curvature that is oscillating in "standing 
wave" fashion. 

      In respect to stress of the vacuum medium, one half of a standing sine 
wave of scalar resonance is tensile; the other half is compressive. However, 
this is with respect to the local ambient stress of the vacuum. 

      "Mass" of a particle is just a characteristic exhibited by a trapped 
scalar resonance. Usually this trapping is done by the "spin" of the 
individual particle. 

      The concept of "mass" may be compared with the concept of 
"capacitance." That is, a mass is an accumulator for scalar waves; that is, 
for scalar resonances. It is continually being "charged" and "discharged" 
by absorption and emission of scalar waves from and to the ambient vacuum 
scalar wave flux. 

      Indeed the magnitude of a mass may be defined in terms of the absolute 
value of this "switching" (absorption = switch in; emission = switch out) 
rate. For details on this see (Bearden, T.E. "Quinton/Perception Physics: A 
Theory of Existence, Perception, and Physical Phenomena," March, 1973, AD 
763210, available through NTIS.) 

      In the normal linear spacetime, the "charging" and "discharging" are 
equal in all directions; so the mass exhibited in any direction is the same. 

      With respect to an "external observer's" equilibrium flux, a moving 
object encounters an increased amount of flux rate along its line of motion, 
just as a moving object in a rainstorm encounters more raindrops per second 
in the direction of its path, than does a stationary object. Encountering 
increased scalar wave flux (with respect to the external observer) forces the 
moving object to absorb and emit scalar waves at a higher rate along its 
direction of motion than when its not moving. Thus to the external observer, 
the mass of the object has increased, insofar as any disturbing force along 
its line of motion is concerned. 

      At right angles to its line of motion however, the flux rate is 
precisely the same as when the object is at rest. Therefore the "mass" of the 
moving object with respect to any disturbing force at right angles to its 
line of motion has not changed, as seen by the external observer. 

      Thus is explained both parts of one of the all time great mysteries of 
special relativity: (1) how the mass of an object increases with respect to 
its motion, and (2) why the mass only increases with respect to its line of 
motion, and not at any right angles to it. 

      The inertia of a particle is due to its mass, i.e., to the total 
magnitude of its trapped scalar resonance. 

      The gravitational attraction between two masses is due to their 
spacetime curvature. Further, mass is like a capacitance. It can trap 
additional scalar waves as trapped resonance; hence increase its magnitude or 
"inertial charge". Or, it can discharge more scalar waves than it absorbs; 
hence decrease its magnitude or "internal charge"... 


      Those scalar waves emitted from resonance are emitted as a pattern 
ensemble of the resonance. Hence they may be regarded as constituting a 
current of scalar resonance leaving the mass accumulator object. Scalar waves 
absorbed into trapped resonance may be regarded as constituting a current of 
scalar resonance into the mass accumulator object. Thus it is proper to speak 
of scalar resonance as being able to "flow". 

      Further, it is possible to increase the mass of an object directly, by 
transmitting scalar EM waves to it so that it absorbs them. (By absorbing 
scalar waves one means that more enter the object than leave it, so that the 
object acts as an internal accumulator charging up with internal charge. This 
is done by insuring the reference potential of the scalar wave transmitter is 
higher than the reference potential of the irradiated object.) 

      It is also possible to decrease the mass of an object directly, by 
transmitting scalar EM waves to it so that it emits more than it absorbs. (By 
emitting scalar waves one means that more leave the object than enter it, so 
the object acts as if it were an internal accumulator that is discharging its 
internal charge. this is done by insuring that the reference potential of the 
scalar transmitter is lower than the reference potential of the irradiated 
object.) 

       As can be seen, the scalar wave "transmitter" is actually somewhat 
comparable to a heat pump; it can either act as an "energy transmitter" or as 
an "energy extractor", depending on the difference in potential between 
"transmitter" and "receiver." 


       Scalar resonance can have a specific pattern: both in frequency and in 
spatial curvature aspects, as well as "rate of flow of time" aspects. Indeed, 
scalar-wise every object has its individual "scalar pattern" which is a 
unique fingerprint. Since that print is spatiotemporal, it is a product of 
that objects  entire past history. Thus --scalar wise-- no two objects are 
identical. 

       This brings up another rather amazing potential: If a reasonably 
precise scalar pattern of an object can be "irradiated" and resonated with 
scalar waves, energy may be created in or extracted from the distant object, 
just as stimulating one tuning fork can excite another at a distance by 
sympathetic resonance. I leave it to you to ascertain the relavence of this 
statement to clairvoyance, radionics, remote viewing, etc.

       For the skeptic, however, we must point out that --rigorously--quantum 
mechanics requires that, continually, in any localized region of spacetime, 
the "pattern" of any object in the universe appears momentarily in the 
virtual state, purely from statistical considerations alone. So long as the 
situation remains statistical, any place in the universe can continue to have 
the "ghosts" of everything present there, in an ethereally thin pattern, and 
the observable world will not be affected by it. However if one can 
discriminate and scalarly "charge" or "discharge" individual patterns in this 
"ghost-realm", action at a distance is directly possible, as is 
materialization and dematerialization. If one accepts that even thought 
itself produces such virtual "ghost-patterns" in the virtual particle flux of 
vacuum, then it is at least theoretically possible to materialize thoughts 
and thought images. 
 

        We have entered a new kind of reality where the old rules and the old
limitations do not necessarily apply. 


        As pointed out, we can greatly simplify matters by considering 
'currents of scalar resonance'. These currents flow from higher potential to 
lower potential, regardless of whether we are considering "transmission" or 
"reception". 

        Indeed, to transmit at lower potential is to receive, and to receive 
at higher potential is to transmit.  Thus the "transmitter-receiver" is a 
special system where simply biasing two nodes differently determines which 
way the scalar resonance will flow. We may increase or decrease an object's 
inertia and mass, simply by properly biasing the transmitter-receiver's two 
nodes.

        In one accidental experiment of some hours duration, Golden charged 
up an area so that, locally, all clocks became erratic. This included 
electrical clocks, battery driven watches, wind up kitchen clocks, and a 
pendulum operated grandfather clock. The rate of flow of time itself was 
apparently altered in the local area by the accumulated charge, which took 
four days to drain off and discharge. At the end of four days of discharge, 
all clocks and watches returned to normal.

(Continued)


      If we interfere two transmitters in a region of great energy--such as 
the molten core of the earth itself--and bias the transmitters negatively, we
can extract enormous energy directly from that distant source! 

      Indeed, a slight variation of this effect is precisely how the Soviet 
Union obtains the enormous energy with which to power its incredibly 
powerful strategic "continent-buster" scalar EM weapons. Scalar frequency 
pairs -- 12 kilohertz apart -- are transmitted into the earth itself on some 
portion of the earth's "giant scalar resonance" frequency curve. Biasing the 
two transmitters differently with respect to each other produces a high 
potential difference (voltage) between them. At the same time, biasing them 
both negative with respect to the earth's molten core produces a scalar 
resonance current from the core to the two transmitters. In the "outer loop" 
between the two scalar transmitters, there appears a gigantic v/ltage and 
gigantic electrical current which can be captured by appropriate means. This 
electrical power is tapped off and transmitted to incredibly powerful scalar 
EM weapon systems. There, special accumulators ad switchers are utilized to 
provide awesome amounts of power to each weapon. 

      Just before May 1,1985 the Soviet Union performed a "full-up" 
operational test of their entire strategic scalar EM weap/ns complex. This 
test was detected and monitored periodically by Frank Golden. Some 27 of 
these giant Soviet "power taps" were locked into the molten core of the 
earth, producing forced (entrained) scalar resonance of the entire planet on 
54 controlled frequencies under our very feet. The remainder of the scalar 
frequency spectrum was ablaze with literally hundreds of Soviet scalar 
transmitters: probably the entire strategic scalar command and control system 
to underwater submarines, higher command centers, distant commands, etc. was 
activated in the giant exercise. 

      For several days the system was exercised on a mind-boggling scale, 
apparently as part of the Soviet Unions highly accentuated 40th anniversary 
celebration of the end of World War II. 

      Ironically, not a single U.S. intelligence agency, laboratory, or 
scientist detected this monstrous exercise for the new Soviet leader, 
Gorbacev. Not one of them had a detector for scalar EM radiation, and not one 
of them will --officially-- say that the exercise ever happened. 


-- CREATING ENERGY AT A DISTANCE --
 
      A most useful device is obtained if one uses a scalar inferometer where 
the two transmitters transmit beams which intersect at a distance. 

      In the interference zone, an energy bottle is created.

      By biasing the transmitter reference potentials well above that of the
distant energy bottle, EM energy emerges in that zone. In that case the 
interferometer is operating in the Exothermic mode. 

      By biasing the transmitter reference potentials well below that of the
distant energy bottle, EM energy is extracted from the distant zone and
emerges from the transmitter. In that case the inferometer is operating in
the Endothermic mode.

      If the transmitters transmit continuously, the effect in the distant 
zone is continuous. 

      If each transmitter transmits a pulse, and the two pulses meet in the 
distant intersection zone, then an explosive emergence or extraction of 
energy occurs at the distant interference zone, depending on whether the 
inferometer is operating in the exothermic or endothermic mode. 


-- EXOTHERMIC MODE (SCALAR INTERFEROMETER) --
 
      For a scalar interferometer, "del phi" (the gradient of the potential) 
applies between the transmitter sit and the distant intersection site, not to 
the intervening space in between. Thus one speaks of "energy flow" as being 
between the transmitter and intersection --without- any "in between". In the 
intervening space, all energy exists as locked-in artificial potential, not 
EM force field energy (gradient bleed off potential). 

      In the Exothermic mode, the ground potential of the transmitter is 
biased well above the ground potential of ambient vacuum. Energy enters the 
transmitter and "disappears", to "reappear" in the distant interference zone. 

      If continuous wave transmission is used, the energy continuously 
appears in the distant zone. 

      If pulse transmission is used and timed so that the two scalar pulses 
meet in the distant zone, energy explosively appears there. 

      If multiple frequencies are transmitted in the manner of a Fourier
expansion of a particular geometric form, then a 3-dimensional energy form 
appears at the distant intersection. In this manner a spherical or 
hemispherical shell (a globe or "dome" of EM energy) can be created at a 
distance. If pulse transmission is used, this will be an impulsive or 
explosive emergence of that energy form. If continuous transmission is used, 
this will be a continuous glowing form. 

      By feeding incredibly powerful transmitters with large amounts of 
energy extracted from the earth's molten core by "energy taps," very large 
spherical globes and hemispherical domes of EM energy can be created at a 
distance. The energy in the interference "shell" of such a sphere or 
hemisphere is sufficiently dense to lift Dirac matter from the Dirac sea of 
the vacuum. Thus the shell contains a glowing plasma. 

      Many such scalar howitzer  signatures have been seen over the oceans, 
particularly over the north Pacific by jet airliners flying into and out of 
Japan. (Remember some months ago the big story about the JAL flight in which 
all passengers and crew saw a giant spherical "UFO".) Also such globes and 
domes of light have been seen deep within the Soviet Union, by observers in 
Afghanistan and by pilots of aircraft landing in Iran. 

      In the impulsive exothermic mode, a large visible flash will occur if 
EM energy in the visible spectrum is produced. "Flashes" in the infrared may 
similarly occur, if the emerging energy is in that spectral band. In 
September 1979 our Vela satellites detected such a large "nuclear flash" over 
the South Atlantic, off the southern coast of Africa. A second "nuclear 
flash" detected by the Vela satellites in 1980 was in the infrared only. Some 
years ago, a series of anomalous "flashes" and "booms" occurred off the east 
coast of the United States. The were due to the orientation and alignment -- 
and registration -- of one or more "scalar howitzers" -- scalar EM 
interferometers in the exothermic mode. 

      Large "booms" occurred over the shuttle launch site at Cape Canaveral, 
associated with three shuttle launches prior to the end of November 1985. 
These were tests of such exothermic scalar EM howitzers, being tested as part 
of the Soviet Launch Phase ABM system. In that mode, the scalar pulses from 
the two transmitters are injected into special zero-reference scalar EM 
"channels" established in the EM carriers of the Woodpecker over-the-horizon 
radars. The scalar pulses travel through these channels, traveling in the 
ordinary EM beam of the transmitter and following it in its curvature around 
the earth in the earth-ionospheric waveguide. The scalar pulses are timed, 
phased, and oriented so as to meet the rising shuttle. In these tests the 
transmissions were offset in time so the shuttle would not actually be 
destroyed, but the system could be tested against actual shuttle launches in 
the U.S. 
     
      The specific uses of these various exothermic modes will be covered in 
later parts of this series. 

      In the endothermic mode, the bias on the transmitters is such that 
energy is extracted from the distant intersection zone, to re-emerge from the 
transmitters. There the energy must be caught and disposed of if it is not to 
burn out the transmitters. When very large amounts of energy are extracted 
from distant points, the Soviets often use a "dump" method of temporarily 
capturing, and storing in an accumulator, the heat energy emerging at the 
transmitters. A second howitzer in the exothermic mode is then fed by a 
"scalar energy tap" established into the accumulator. This howitzer is 
focused on the distant dump site -- often Bennett Island, where exhausts are 
continually observed by U.S. weather satellites. 

      In the impulsive endothermic mode, energy is impulsively extracted from 
the distant intersection zone. In the atmosphere this results in a very sharp 
cooling or "cold explosion". It also results in the type of boom and rumble 
often associated with thunder after a lightning bolt. 

      On April 9, 1984 the Soviet Union tested such a "cold explosion" off 
the coast of Japan, near the Kuril Islands. In the suddenly induced low 
pressure "cold zone" above the ocean, ocean water was sharply sucked up from 
the ocean, forming a dense cloud. Then air rushing into the low pressure zone 
forced the cloud upward, forming a mushroom much like that of an atomic 
explosion except for the absence of a flash and the absence of a shockwave 
moving out and away from the center of the explosion. 

      As the cloud rises, it expands by mixing -- very similar to a giant 
thunderhead buildup, except much faster. In this case the cloud rose to about 
60,000 feet in about 2 minutes, spreading out until it reached a diameter of 
about 200 miles. The incident was seen by the pilots and crews of several 
Boeing 747 jet airliners in the general vicinity. Sometime after that, a U.S. 
weather satellite photo of the area occurred. The cloud in that photo has an 
anomalous density distribution, differing from that of all other clouds in 
the area... 

(Continued)


--TESLA'S "BIG EYE" FOR REMOTE VIEWING--
 
     Nikola Tesla planned a very special use for his endothermic scalar
interferometer. He planned to produce what he called his "big eye to see at a 
distance." 

     The system used to accomplish this is only weakly endothermic, so that 
only a small amount of energy is extracted from the distant target. Also, the 
beams are "scanned" by an open receiver, timewise, from side to side and top 
to bottom. By scanning yet another single beam through the intersection zone 
and phasing its pulses, an even better representation can be obtained. Thus 
the receiver produces a representation of the energy extracted from various 
locations within the distant endothermic zone. By displaying the received 
signals on an appropriately scanned screen, a representation of the distant 
scene can be created. This is a special kind of "microwave interferometry," 
and -- with modern techniques -- the imagery obtained can be surprisingly 
good. 

        With development, it might even become as good as the image presently 
obtained by side looking acquisition radars. 

     Interestingly enough, since scalar beams will easily penetrate the earth 
or the ocean, one can also look beneath the earth or ocean with this type of 
scanning scalar interferometer. 
    
     The importance of this capability to strategic and tactical 
reconnaissance is obvious. Camouflage, cover, and concealment have no effect 
on such a system. One can easily look into buildings and into underground 
facilities. With a small system such as this, the U.S. Marines at Khe Sahn 
would have had little difficulty locating the tunnels continually dug under 
the perimeter by the Viet Cong. And targets under jungle canopies are 
directly visible... 
         
      It requires little imagination to see that this system is easily 
adapted for use underwater. A type of "underwater radar." With such devices, 
the problem posed by the underwater nuclear submarine is solved. For example, 
an entire area can be continually searched, much like acquisition radar 
systems do now. A submarine can be detected and tracked, and none of its 
ordinary detectors will detect anything out of the ordinary. By using a 
separate pair of beams in the exothermic mode, powerful scalar pulses can be 
fired at the distant sub, intersecting at the submarine in a violent EMP 
throughout the sub and its armament. Thus the sub and all of its missiles 
are destroyed instantly. 

      Or, continuous exothermic transmission can be used by the targeting 
weapon at lesser power, gradually interfering with the sub's electrical 
systems and causing it to loose control. The sub then sinks to crush depths 
and implodes. 

      Precisely that scenario seems to be what happened on April 10, 1963 to 
the U.S.S. Thresher nuclear submarine. It left a signature: the subs nearby 
surface companion, the U.S.S. Skylark, was in the "splatter zone" of the 
underwater scalar interference. That is, spurious EM noise was being 
generated in all the Skylark's electrical systems, some of which were 
actually disabled. So intense was the "electronic jamming" that it required 
over an hour and a half for the Skylark to transmit an emergency message 
back to its headquarters that the Thresher was n serious trouble and contact 
with it had been lost. Some of the Skylark's communication systems actually 
failed, but later resumed operation inexplicably, once the jamming was gone. 
That type of "jamming" of multiple bands and multiple electronic equipment, 
of course, together with the anomalous failure of electronic equipment and 
its later mysterious recovery, were direct signatures of the exothermic 
scalar interferometer against thee undersea target in the vicinity of the 
skylark. 

      The very next day, April 11,1963, the same Soviet scalar EM howitzer 
system was tested in the "destroy submarine" pulse mode. A huge underwater EM 
blast occurred off the coast of Puerto Rico, about 100 miles north of the 
island. The underwater explosion caused a huge boiling of the surface  of the 
ocean, followed by the rising up of a giant mushroom of water about a third 
of a mile high, the mushroom of water then fell back into the ocean, 
completing the signature. 

      Fortunately the entire incident was seen by the startled crew of a 
passing U.S. jetliner which was just passing its checkpoint in that area. 
(See Robert J.Durant, "An underwater explosion -- or what?", Pursuit, 5(2), 
April 1972, p. 30-31.) 

      These two incidents were full up operational tests of Khrushchev's 
newly-deployed superweapons. He probably staged this dramatic one-two punch 
in a desperate effort to recover face with the Communist Party after his 
disastrous face down by Kennedy in thee Cuban Missile Crisis a few short 
months previously. Apparently the attempt was successful, since he remained 
in power another year before being deposed. 


--MUSHROOM CLOUD FROM SEA OFF JAPAN NEAR RUSSIAN TEST AREA--
 
      The following is concerning the "cold explosion" of April 9,1984. The 
site of the explosion was only about 200 miles from downtown Tokyo. It was 
seen by the crews of several jet airliners, including Japan Air Lines Flight 
36. 

      A short time before the Soviets had hastily announced missile tests 
would be conducted into a zone some distance away from the ol explosion site. 
This may have been a deception to cover this incident, should any nation 
indicate they knew what was going on. 

      It was also a direct "stimulus" to the Japanese and the rest of the 
world: That is stimulate the system and see if the scientists recognize what 
happened. If they do, then they know about scalar EM weapons. If they don't, 
then their countries know nothing of scalar EM weapons, and those countries 
are defenseless against them. 

      At any rate, at about 5:14 a.m. Pacific Standard time on April 9,1984, 
a giant mushroom cloud erupted above the ocean south of the Kuril Islands. 
The mushroom rose rapidly, expanding to an altitude of 60,000 feet and a 
diameter of 200 miles within 2 minutes. 

      One pilot of a Boeing 747 who observed the cloud was a former B-52 
bomber pilot. He described the cloud as being very similar to that of a 
gigantic nuclear explosion, except there was no flash of visible light. 
Taking evasive action, he turned off course away from the blast, and braced 
for a blast shock that never came... 


--MUSHROOM CLOUD RISING FROM THE SEA (COLD EXPLOSION)--
 
      Indeed, this highly anomalous cloud was due to a cold explosion -- a 
test of a Soviet scalar EM howitzer in the pulsed endothermic mode. 
     
      Thus a beautiful "stimulus" and test was conducted: quite a few 
airliners were "pinged", providing a high-level stimulus to competent 
observers. The news was sure to be reported by them to several nations. The 
press was sure to pick up the story. This was a high order stimulus to see 
whether the U.S., Japan, or other potential adversaries of the Soviet Union 
recognized the testing of a cold explosion weapon. 

      By our reaction, we assured them (with high confidence) that we still 
knew nothing of scalar EM interferometry or cold explosions. 

      Five Boeing 747's flew through or near the cloud on their way to 
Anchorage Alaska. The aircraft were checked at Anchorage for rad)oactive 
contamination, but nothing was found. This showed that the  huge explosion 
had been non-nuclear. 

      The ocean in the area is also about 21,000 feet deep. That is really 
too deep for a submarine volcano to have erupted and caused the cloud. 
(Besides, a volcano would have continued to snort at least a bit, and so that 
appears to be out of the question as a cause of the incident.) 

      In short, a man made phenomenon is indicated.

      Indeed, we know it was a cold explosion. In fact, the basic effect has 
been produced over a dish of water in the laboratory, using a small scalar 
interferometer in the endothermic mode. 

      Further, the story does not end there.

      A geophysicist at the University of Hawaii, Dr.Daniel A. Walker, 
together with his colleages monitor an array of Hydrophones on the ocean 
bottom, recording signals such as seismic events, volcano eruptions, etc. 

      Dr.Walker and his colleages performed a comprehensive analysis of the
data recorded by the hydrophones in and around the time of the incident in 
question. The data shows the absence of any natural seismic or volcanic event 
that could have caused the April 9th phenomenon off the coast of Japan. 
    
      He and his colleages concluded that it was either an as yet unknown 
natural phenomenon, or a man made phenomenon. 

      Their report is published in "Science". (D.Walker,"Kaitoku Seamount and 
the Mystery Cloud of 9 April 1984," Science, 227(4687),Feb.8,1985,p. 
607-611.) 

(Continued)

--THE TESLA SHIELD--
 
      Of particular interest is the hemispherical shell of energy which years 
ago was dubbed the "Tesla Shield." 

      Two scalar hemispherical surfaces are created, using multiple frequency 
transmitters and truncated Fourier series expansions. Interference of the two 
scalar hemispheres creates a great, glowing hemispherical shell of ordinary 
electromagnetic energy. In the shell, the energy density is sufficient to 
lift Dirac matter from the Dirac sea of vacuum. The shell is thus filled with 
a glowing plasma. 

      Such a shell may be several hundreds of miles in diameter at the base. 
The enormous energy required to form such a defense shell is obtained by a 
"scalar power tap" into the molten core of the earth itself as previously 
explained. In late April/early May of 1985, 27 such "power taps" were placed 
in the earth by the Soviets. If each tap is capable of powering 4 to 6 large 
scalar EM weapons, then the Soviet strategic scalar EM arsenal contains over 
100 monstrous superweapons capable of generating exothermic explosions, 
endothermic explosions, engineering the weather, locating and destroying 
underwater submarines, detecting and destroying ballistic missiles shortly 
after launch, detecting and destroying long range strategic bombers as soon 
as they are airborne, etc. 

      At any rate, the giant Tesla shield is useful against any penetrating 
vehicle. If the shell is not so large, its energy density may be very high. 
In that case, the intense plasma heating will fuse and even vaporize metallic 
bodies. In addition, any vehicle encountering the shell is subjected to an 
extremely intense EMP arising everywhere inside its circuitry. EMP shielding 
is of no use against the creation of energy throughout the spacetime of the 
circuits; such shielding only helps against energy flow through space in the 
conventional sense. 

      Thus the electronics of any vehicle encountering the shield are 
instantly dudded, whether or not they are shielded against ordinary 
electromagnetic interference (EMI). This includes the electronics operating a 
nuclear warhead, carried by a re-entry vehicle. Electrically everything 
penetrating the shell is totally dudded. Further, explosive materials are 
exploded when such an EMP is encountered, and combustible materials are 
fiercely consumed or set afire. Ablative shielding suffers an interesting 
catastrophe: since energy does not try to "flow into" the shielding but 
"arises" everywhere in it simultaneously, "ablation" occurs everywhere 
throughout the ablative material, simply exploding it instantly. In addition, 
for smaller Tesla shells (say of 50 miles in diameter) the energy density is 
sufficient to melt or vaporize metals such as missile structures. 

       With such a Tesla shield, there is no need to discriminate true 
warhead bearing re-entry vehicles from decoys, chaff, etc. The whole "mess" 
entering the shield is simply "cleaned up" and "sterilized" or destroyed. The 
shield can take care of ICBMs/IRBMs and their nuclear warheads, strategic 
bombers and their nuclear bombs, cruise missiles and their nuclear warheads, 
re-entry vehicles and their warheads, decoys, chaff, etc.


--SARYSHAGAN DIRECTION-SEPTEMBER 1979--
 
       The London Sunday Times of 17 August 1980 contained information and a 
photo-sketch of incidents fo sighting of the testing of very large Tesla 
globes deep within the Soviet Union. The sightings were made in Afghanistan 
by British war cameraman Nick Downie. The phenomena seen were in the 
direction of the Saryshagan Missile Test Range, which -- according to the 
U.S. Defense Departments "Soviet Military Power," 1986 -- contains one or 
more large directed energy weapons (DEW's). 
 
       Even though Downie was seeing the globe of light from a great 
distance, it flared silently over the Hindu Kush and expanded to subtend an 
arc of about 20 degrees, dimming as it expanded. (An arc of 20 degrees 
subtended by an object many hundreds of miles distant indicates an object of 
well over a hundred miles in diameter. This gives some idea of the enormous 
energy being controlled and manipulated by these Soviet weapons.) 

       Downie saw the sight on more than one occasion in September 1979.

       In the same month --December 1979-- a stationary luminous globe 
containing a vertical stripe of black in the center was seen in the sky off 
the coast of St.Petersburg, Florida. This particular type of sighting in that 
area has been previously correlated with times of known activity at 
Saryshagan. 

       Further, in the same month, U.S. nuclear warning Vela satellites 
detected a "nuclear flash" over the South Atlantic, off the coast of Africa. 
Controversy has raged in U.S. Intelligence and scientific circles to this day 
as to whether a nuclear explosion or some other kind of mechanism produced 
the flash. 

       Indeed, the flash may have been produced by a scalar EM howitzer from 
Saryshagan as one more "ping" of the U.S. Intelligence system, to ascertain 
whether or not it knew anything about scalar EM howitzers. Again the negative 
response told them with high confidence that (1) We still didn't know about 
scalar EM stuff, and (2) We were still totally defenseless against the Soviet 
scalar EM weaponry. 

       At any rate, from Downie's sightings, it is highly probable that the 
DEW weaponry at Saryshagan Missile Test Range was active in September 1979, 
and was producing large Tesla globes. If the DEWs at Saryshagan can produce 
the giant luminous Tesla globe, they are almost certainly scalar EM 
interferometers and can produce the giant Tesla shields as well. Downie 
reported other earlier sightings of similar phenomena seen by Afghans deep 
within the Soviet Union in the same direction toward Saryshagan... 


       Briefly, let us cover the uses of such a giant globe or spherical 
shell of glowing EM energy and plasma. 

       By placing such a giant globe hundreds of miles out away from the 
defended heartland, an entire arc of the sky can be defended against long 
range ballistic missile attack in midcourse. During their midcourse 
trajectory, the attacking missiles would have to penetrate the globular shell 
twice, exposing them to giant internal EMPs twice. A very high probability 
thus exists that all missiles entering the space occupied by the globe are 
dudded upon entry and/or exit. This includes the electronics inside the 
nuclear warheads themselves. Also this is particularly effective against MIRV 
and MARV missile carriers since the multiple re-entry vehicles are normally 
still on the main vehicle during most of midcourse. The use of this midcourse 
ABM globe defense greatly reduces the number of vehicles arriving at the 
latter part of midcourse and the terminal phase of their trajectory. 

       By using a smaller, more intense globe, and placing it on incoming 
clusters of objects or single objects, both EMP and local heating are used 
against the objects. This is suitable in the latter part of midcourse and in 
the terminal phase of ICBMs, IRBMs, SLBMs, and cruise missiles. It is also 
useful against incoming strategic bombers and their air to surface missiles 
both ballistic and cruise. 

       Two modes of the globes -- especially the small ones -- can be used. 
First the continuous mode can be used to "fry" or vaporize incoming objects 
in a relatively small volume (say ten to fifteen miles in diameter). Second, 
the "pulse" mode can be used to "service" all incoming objects, whether or 
not they have passed through the "large globe" midcourse defense. This 
provides an additional guarantee of killing the objects; discrimination is 
not require, just get all of them. The exposure of all incoming objects to 
multiple attacks raises the probability of kill to essentially 100%, or as 
close to that as one wishes. Of course the incoming vehicle may still 
encounter a terminal defense consisting of the Tesla shield and associated 
roving "quickshot" small intense globes. 

       In short, with these systems an essentially 100% ABM and anti bomber 
defense is possible. Further, the Soviets have possessed such an effective 
defense for two decades, JUST AS THEY HAVE OPENLY STATED SINCE 1960 WHEN 
KHRUSHCHEV ANNOUNCED HIS "SUPERWEAPONS"!! 
 
 


--CONTINUOUS TESLA EMP GLOBE--
 
       Here is another verified incident of a gigantic test of a Soviet 
scalar EM howitzer deep within the Soviet Union. 

       This is a C.I.A. report, released under the Freedom of Information 
Act. One can be quite sure that the incident occurred as stated. 

       The phenomenon was seen from two aircraft approaching Mehrabad Airport 
in Teheran, Iran on June 17, 1966 and reported by their pilots. 

       On the far horizon deep within the Soviet Union, an intense spherical 
ball of light appeared, "sitting on the horizon" so to speak. The globe of 
light increased to enormous size, dimming as it did so, literally filling an 
arc of the distant sky as it expanded. The sighting was shielded from most 
ground observers view at the airport itself due to an intervening mountain 
range which masked most of the phenomena from the ground. 

       The silent, expanding globe was observed for four or five minutes 
before it faded away. 

       Again this is positive evidence of the testing of a giant scalar
interferometer, in the "midcourse ABM globe" type of action.

       However, note the date -- mid 1966! The Soviets have therefore been
testing such scalar weapons of enormous size and power for at least two
decades. This implies that development must have started at least a decade 
earlier, or in the mid '50s. 

       Still earlier, in January 1960 Nikita Khrushchev had announced the
development of a "fantastic" Soviet weapon, one which could even destroy all 
life on earth if unrestrainedly used. In 1962 the ebullient Khrushchev was 
forced to back down and lose face before John Kennedy, in the Cuban Missile 
Crisis. Khrushchev's missiles and bombers were in woeful shape, as Kennedy 
well knew (by courtesy of the Russian spy, Colonel Oleg Penkovsky). Kennedy 
did not know that Khrushchev's new superweapons were nearing deployment, but 
were not quite ready yet. 

       To save face and prevent his immediate ouster, Khrushchev apparently 
conducted a startling two-strike demonstration of his new weapons as soon as 
they became operationally ready. On April 10, 1963 he detected and destroyed 
the U.S.S. Thresher nuclear submarine, using a scalar EM howitzer in the 
underwater "continuous" mode. The next day he demonstrated the "pulsed" 
underwater destruction mode for underwater subs by producing a giant 
underwater 
explosion underneath the water 100 miles north of Puerto Rico. Ironically, 
just as the Atlantic was coming alive with U.S. naval vessels searching for 
the lost Thresher, a second test of the weapons that had finished off the sub 
occurred to the south of them, unnoticed and disregarded, even though seen 
and reported to he F.B.I. and the U.S. Coast Guard by a passing U.S. 
jetliner's pilot and crew, who observed the underwater explosion. 

        We thus can peg the development of these weapons by the Soviets as 
starting well before 1960. The first operational deployment of the gigantic 
strategic weaponry occurred in early 1963. 
      
        Note that the 1966 testing observed here is completely consistent 
with this estimated development schedule. 

        Thus large Soviet strategic scalar EM weapons have been operational 
on site for 24 YEARS !!! This implies that at least three additional 
generations of the scalar EM weapons have been developed and deployed by 
now... 
 


--MYSTERIOUS LIGHTS OVER NORTH PACIFIC--
 
        Incidents of Soviet testing of the Tesla shield and the Tesla globe 
weapons are routinely observed  by airline pilots flying over the North 
Pacific into and out of Japan. 

        This is one typical example. Two jetliners, Japan Air Lines flights 
403 and 421, sighted and reported a large glowing globe of light sitting just 
beyond the horizon and extending well above it. The aircraft were in the 
vicinity of 42 degrees N latitude and 153 degrees longitude at the time. The 
sighting was thus about 700 miles east of Kushiro. 

        The diameter of the ball was estimated as at least 18-27 kilometers 
by the pilots. Depending upon the actual distance to the sphere it may have 
been of much larger size. 

        This incident is reported in the Asahi Evening News, Tokyo, June 22, 
1982. 
   
        Many similar sightings have been reported by jet airliner pilots 
flying over these waters. 
 
--WHITE SPHERE SEEN IN NORTH ATLANTIC 1976--
 
        Here is another sighting closer to home. 

        This incident was observed from a passing ship on June 22,1976 in the 
North Atlantic, at about 2113-2140 hours. It is reported in the Marine 
Observer, Vol.47,1977, p.66. 

        First an orange glow was sighted behind some distant clouds. A couple 
of minutes later, a glowing white sphere of light was observed to the left of 
the orange glow, just above the clouds. The white sphere then slowly expanded 
to a much larger sphere, dimming as it expanded. At its maximum size, the top 
of the white sphere reached about 24 degrees 30 minutes elevation angle to 
the observer. Development to maximum size required about 10 minutes. 

        By 2140 hours the sphere had faded and disappeared. The sphere was 
sufficiently thin that the stars could be seen through  it at all times. 

        Again, this incident strong<y fits the large Tesla globe mode of a
Soviet scalar EM interferometer.

        The significance and role of the orange glow are not known at this
time.
 

--CONTINUOUS TESLA FIREBALL--
 
        Here is another incident that represents a stimulus to the British
government, to see if the British are aware of scalar electromagnetics.

        Again this is a CIA report released under the Freedom of Information
Act, so the details are reliable.

        On Sep. 10, 1976 British European Airways flight 831, flying between
Moscow and London and over Lithuania at the time, observed an intense ball
of light above the clouds below the aircraft. The light was so intense it
lit up the sky in the entire vicinity.

        The concerned pilot reported the glowing object to Soviet ground
authorities with whom he was in contact. He received harsh instructions to
ignore the light, and essentially to continue on his way out of there.

      Here we see an incident involving a small, intense Tesla globe, of the
kind with which the defense could "service" objects that had already
penetrated a large midcourse globe, or aircraft approaching the defended
area.

        Obviously the Soviet authorities were tracking the aircraft, and knew
it was in the vicinity. It seems logical, then, that they deliberately
placed the brightly glowing ball beneath the aircraft so that the pilot and
crew could not fail to observe it.

        The strange message to the pilot was simply designed to increase the
intensity of the stimulus. The stimulus was to be something like, "The
Soviets are doing something in research and development that allows them to
create intense balls of glowing light at a distance, and place these objects
in and around the air in and around aircraft, possibly to intercept them."
The purpose, of course, was to observe the British governments reaction
after the incident was reported by the pilot upon his arrival in London.

        Again the reaction of the British -- and the U.S. as well -- was as
predicted. Again we showed that we knew nothing of scalar electromagnetic
weapons, and did not recognize one when we encountered its effects.

(Continued)

--TERMINAL ABM SYSTEM--
 
      Very neat things can be done if one "nests" several Tesla shields -- 
say three or four -- concentrically, one inside the other. In that case even 
the nuclear radiation (such as gamma rays) from a defense-suppressive high 
altitude nuclear burst can be handled. 
 
     For example, suppose three such concentric shields are placed over a 
large vital area. Further, suppose a high altitude nuclear burst is placed 
above the outer shield. Gamma radiation almost instantly strikes the plasma 
in the outer shell, where it is absorbed, scattered, and re-radiated at a 
lower temperature. (That after all is what plasmas do.) Inside the first 
shell, the scattered radiation is now in the x-ray and ultra violet region. 
Let us track the most lethal component, the x-rays. 

     The scattered x-rays then strike the second plasma shell, and are 
absorbed scattered and re-radiated at a lower temperature. Inside the second 
shell the scattered radiation is now in the visible and infrared region, with 
a little ultraviolet. 
 
     This optical radiation in turn strikes the third plasma shell, and is 
absorbed scattered and re-radiated at still lower temperature. Inside the 
third shell, most of the energy is now in the form of radio frequency (RF) 
energy, with a little IR and visible band spectral energy content. 
 
     At this point, ordinary electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding of 
electronic equipment on the ground inside the third shield can take care of 
any RF interference resulting from the emergent RF noise. 

     As can be seen, three shells are sufficient to convert the gamma and 
x-ray radiation (and ultraviolet and infrared) mostly to harmless RF energy 
before all three shells are penetrated. Thus the tactic of deliberate defense 
suppression by a preliminary high altitude nuclear burst can be countered by 
multiple Tesla shields. 

     In addition, of course, any ordinary vehicles penetrating all three
shields are exposed to successive violent EMP's and are almost certainly
electrically dudded. The vehicles are also subjected to multiple periods of
intense heating, so combustibles, fuels, explosives, and ablatives are 
destroyed. In addition, metal structures may be melted or vaporized. 

     Think of it this way: anything which hits one of these Tesla shields 
goes phhht! Just like a bug hitting an electrified bugkiller screen. 

     For years passing ships have observed and reported such multiple-shield 
"light phenomena" over remote regions of the ocean. U.S. intelligence has 
routinely not paid any heed to "lights at night" over remote ocean areas, and 
so Soviet tests in this manner have remained relatively unnoticed by 
officialdom... 



--WOODPECKER BEAMS INTERSECT OVER NORTH AMERICA--
 
     In July 1976 the U.S. received very special Bicentennial greetings from 
the Soviet Union. 

     At that time, communications systems of the world in the 3-30 megaHertz 
band suddenly met substantial interference from extremely powerful, chirped 
Soviet transmitters which were suddenly activated. These transmitters 
continue their transmission to this day. 

     Estimates of the power of these transmitters vary, but figures range as 
high as several hundred megawatts, with a nominal figure being 100 megawatts. 

     These powerful transmitters were properly nicknamed "Woodpeckers" 
because of the characteristic sound of the chirped signal when received. That 
is, the received signal makes a "pecking" sound much like a woodpecker's beak 
hitting a block of wood. 

     Several nations protested, but the powerful signals have continued, 
right down to this day. The only Soviet response was to add a "spread 
spectrum" capability, so that the transmitter would not dwell too long on one 
specific frequency, but shifted periodically to other frequencies. 

     These transmitters have apparently never been precisely located by U.S. 
intelligence, but their beams carry much of the characteristics of an over-
the-horizon (OTH) radar. They have been dubbed OTH radars by U.S. 
intelligence, and can without question perform that mission, in addition to 
some very interesting missions that U.S. intelligence does not assess. 

     "Soviet Military Power", Department of Defense, 1985, p.45 shows the 
direct intersection over the United States of the Woodpecker radar beams used 
in an OTH role. In addition, shown is an additional "scanner" beam which can 
be scanned across the intersection "grid" over the U.S., formed by waveform 
interference of two main Woodpecker beams. 

     First, they can be used in  a conventional OTH radar mode, since their 
beams follow the earth-ionosphere waveguide and curve around the earth. In 
this mode they can detect missiles at launch and thereafter, and strategic 
bombers at launch and thereafter. 

     These scalar interference grid weapons can be used to biologically 
attack entire populations in a targeted area. This aspect is not covered in 
this briefing. Suffice it to say that phase locked ELF modulation signals of 
10 Hz and less are often detected on multiple woodpecker frequencies 
simultaneously. In a target area, this modulation -- is sufficiently stronger 
than the Schumann resonance of the earth's magnetic field -- will entrain a 
percentage of the brains into "forced entrainment". In that case, these human 
brains are "synchronized" to the Woodpecker signals so that multiple coherent 
frequencies are phase-locked into them. That is, multiple coherent EM 
channels directly into these entrained brains now exist. At that point, 
Fourier expansions may now be used to attack specific portions of the brain 
geometrically. 

     In addition, scalar EM disease patterns can be modulated upon the 
carriers, again with fourier expansions. Specific biological effects can be 
induced in the entrained populations at will, limited only by the state of 
the art of the Soviet technology used to attack them. Possible effects 
include instantaneous death, heart seizure, severe emotional disruption, loss 
of control of internal functions, diseases, disabling of the immune system, 
and even implantation of thoughts, emotions, and ideas which are interpreted 
by the subjects as their own. 

     While further discussion of this area is beyond the scope of my
knowledge, the biological aspects of the Woodpecker transmitters are
horrible. It suffices to say that, in thousands of experiments, Kaznacheyev
demonstrated that almost any kind of cellular death and disease pattern
could be electromagnetically transmitted. Kaznacheyev reported the effect in
te near ultraviolet.  Experimenters at the University of Marburg in West
Germany duplicated the experiments in the infrared.

     The bottom line is that photons themselves can carry death and disease
patterns between cells. Scalar EM technology allows synthesis of the actual
potential pattern (which after all represents total control of charge and
charge distribution, hence biochemistry in the cell) of a particular
disease or death mechanism. Symptoms (and cellular death from them!) of
nuclear radiation, chemical poisoning, bacterial infection, and other
mechanisms were induced by the Kaznacheyev experiments.

     Dr. Popp of West Germany has published an analysis of the virtual
photon master control system of the cells. Since scalar EM represents the
deliberate ordering of virtual particle  flux into deterministic patterns,
the master control system can readily be entered with scalar techniques to
induce disease and disorder at will...

