       

       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
                                 TESLA HOWITZER
       
       
                                   Written by
       
                                 T. E. Bearden
       
       
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       Before  the  turn of the century, Nikola Tesla had discovered and 
       was  utilizing  a  new  type  of electric wave.  Tesla repeatedly 
       stated   his   waves   were   non-Hertzian,   and   his  wireless 
       transmissions  did  not  fall  off as the square of the distance.  
       His  discovery  was  apparently so fundamental (and his intent to 
       provide  free  energy  to all humankind was so clear) that it was 
       responsible  for  the  withdrawal  of  his financial backing, his 
       deliberate  isolation,  and  the gradual removal of his name from 
       the history books.
       
       By  1914  or  so,  Tesla  had  been successfully isolated and was 
       already  nearly  a "nonperson."  Thereafter Tesla lived in nearly 
       total  seclusion,  occasionally surfacing (at his annual birthday 
       party  for  members of the press) to announce the discovery of an 
       enormous  new  source  of free energy, the perfection of wireless 
       transmission  of  energy  without  losses,  fireball  weapons  to 
       destroy  whole  armies  and thousands of airplanes at hundreds of 
       miles  distance,  and  a  weapon (the "Tesla Shield," I've dubbed 
       it)  that  could  provide an impenetrable defense and thus render 
       war obsolete.
       
       In  my pursuit of Tesla's secret, it gradually became apparent to 
       me  that  present  orthodox  electromagnetic  theory is seriously  
       flawed  in  some  fundamental  respects.   One of these is in the 
       definition   and   use   of   THETA,   the  scalar  electrostatic 
       potential.   It  is  this error which has hidden the long- sought 
       Unified Field Theory from the theorists.
       
       In  the  theory  of the scalar electrostatic potential (SEP), the 
       idea  is  introduced  of work accomplished on a charge brought in 
       from  a  distance  against  the  scalar  field.  The SEP is not a 
       vector  field,  but  is  a scalar field. Indeed, scalar potential 
       cannot  of  itself  perform  work  on  a  charged mass due to the 
       extremely  high SEP of the vacuum itself.  Only a differential of 
       SEP  between  two  spatial points can produce force or accomplish 
       work.   (Rigorously,  a  differential of scalar potential between 
       two  spatial  points  constitutes  a  vector.   Only a vector can 
       produce force and do work.)
       
       Also,  work  can  only be done on a mass.  Further, it takes TIME 
       to  move  an  electron  or other charged mass between two spatial 
       points,  and  so  the work performed by a spatial differential of 
       the  THETA-FIELD  requires  TIME.  Rigorously,  the  delta SEP is 
       voltage,  not  SEP per se, and is directly related to the voltage 
       or  "E"  field.   The  entire voltage concept depends on the work 
       performed  in moving a mass, after that mass has moved.  The idea 
       of   "voltage"   always   implies   the  existence  of  a  steady 
       differential  of  THETA  between  two spatial points for a finite 
       length  of time, and it also involves the assumption of a flow of 
       actual  mass  having occurred.  SEP, on the one hand, is always a 
       single-point   function;    on  the  other  hand,  difference  in 
       potential  (i.e.,  V)  is  always a two point function, as is any 
       vector.
       
       


                                  -- Page 1 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       Yet  many  graduate level physics and electromagnetics papers and 
       texts  erroneously  confuse THETA and V in the static case!  Such 
       an interpretation is of course quite incorrect.
       
       Another  common  assumption  in  present  EM  theory  -- that the 
       electrostatic  potential (0,O) of the normal vacuum is zero --has 
       no  legitimate  basis.  In fact, we know (0,O) is nonzero because 
       the  vacuum  is  filled  with  enormous  amounts  of  fluctuating 
       virtual    state    activity,    including    incredible   charge 
       fluctuations.   And by virtue of its point definition, (0,O) must 
       be  the "instantaneous stress" on spacetime itself, and a measure 
       of  the  intensity  of  the  virtual  state  flux  through  a  4-
       dimensional spacetime point.
       
       Potential  theory  was largely developed in the 1800's before the 
       theory  of  relativity.   Time  flowrate  was  then  regarded  as 
       immutable.   Accordingly, electrostatic "intensity" was chosen as 
       "spatial  intensity,"  with  the  connotation  of  "spatial  flux 
       density."   This  assumes  a  constant, immutable rate of flow of 
       time,  which  need  not  be true at all if we believe relativity. 
       Such  a  spatial  "point"  intensity  is  actually a "line" in 4-
       space,  and  not  a  4-   dimensional  "point"  at all.  Thus the 
       spatial  potential  -- 0, 3 -- is a very special case of the real 
       spacetime  potential  --0,4,  or  charge  --  and electromagnetic 
       theory  today  is  accordingly a special case of the real 4-space 
       electromagnetism  that actually exists!  Note also that charge is 
       a 4- dimensional concept.
       
       Now  mass  is a spatial, 3-dimensional concept.  Rigorously, mass 
       does  not  exist  in  time  -- masstime exists in time.  Mass and 
       charge are thus of differing dimensionalities!
       
       Also, according to quantum mechanics, the charge of a particle --
       e.g.,  of  an electron -- is due to the continual flux of virtual 
       particles  given  off  and absorbed by the observable particle of 
       mass.   Thus charge also is conceptually a measure of the virtual 
       flux  density, and directly related to THETA.  Further, since the 
       charge  exists in time, it is the charge of a particle of spatial 
       mass  that  gives  it  the  property  of masstime, or existing in 
       time.
       
       Here  a  great  confusion  and  fundamental error has been thrown 
       into  the  present  EM  theory  by  the  equating of "charge" and 
       "charged  mass."  As we have seen, the two things are really very 
       different indeed.
       
       To  speak  of a spatial "amount" of charge erroneously limits the 
       basic  EM  theory  to  a  fixed time flowrate condition (which of 
       course  it  was considered to be, prior to Einstein's development 
       of  relativity).  Thus when the limited present theory encounters 
       a  "relativistic"  case  (where  the  time flowrate changes), all 
       sorts  of extraordinary corrections must be introduced.  The real 
       problem,  of  course,  is  with  the  fundamental  definitions of 
       electrostatic  potential  and  charge.   The  spatial "amount" of 


                                  -- Page 2 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       charge  (i.e.,  the coulomb), as we presently erroneously use the 
       term,  is  actually  the  spatial  amount  of observable "charged 
       mass."   To  correct  the  theory, one must introduce the true 4-
       space  SEP  and  separate  the  definitions of charge and charged 
       mass. 
       
       Only  when  a  mass is moved does one have work -- and voltage or 
       vector   fields.   (The  reason  one  has  voltage  and  E  field 
       connected  to  a  normal  electrostatically charged object in the 
       laboratory  is  because  an excess of charged-particle masses are 
       assembled  on  the  object,  and  these  masses  are  in  violent 
       motion!  A true static charge would have no E field at all.)
       
       The  THETA  field  need not involve observable mass accumulation, 
       but   only  charge  (virtual  flowrate  intensity)  accumulation.  
       Accumulated   masses   are   like   so  many  gallons  of  water;  
       accumulated  charge  is  like  so much pressure on both the water 
       (space) and the time in which the water is existing.
       
       Now,  if one varies the SEP solely as a point function, one would 
       have  a purely scalar complex longitudinal wave, and not a vector 
       wave  at all.  This is the fundamentally new electrical wave that 
       Tesla discovered in 1899.
       
       Rigorously,  all  vector  fields are two-point functions and thus 
       decomposable  into  two  scalar  fields,  as  Whittaker showed in 
       1903.   It  follows  that  any vector wave can be decomposed into 
       two   scalar   waves.    By   implication,  therefore,  a  normal 
       transverse  EM  vector  wave,  e.g.,  must  simply be two coupled 
       scalar  (Tesla) waves -- and these scalars independently would be 
       longitudinal  if  uncoupled.   An  ordinary  transverse EM vector 
       wave  is  thus  two pair-coupled Tesla scalar longitudinal waves, 
       and  only  a  single  special  case  of the much more fundamental 
       electromagnetics discovered by Nikola Tesla.
       
       A  Tesla (scalar potential) wave -- i.e., a massless wave in pure 
       0,O,  the  stress  of  the  spacetime  medium  -- would have very 
       strange  characteristics  indeed.   For one thing, since it moves 
       in  a  complex  4-space,  it has many more modes of movement than 
       does  a  simple  wave in 3-space.  And for another thing, it need 
       not  be  bound at all by the speed of (vector) light.  In current 
       theory,  one  0,3-field does not directly interact or couple with 
       other   existing   0,3-fields  except  by  simple  superposition.  
       Therefore  presently  the  THETA-  field is considered to have no 
       drag  limitation  at  all,  hence  infinite  velocity.  (E.g., as 
       stated  in  Jackson's,  (Classical  Electrodynamics, 2nd edition, 
       page 223.)
       
       Actually,  a  0,4-wave  can  and  will  interact with some of the 
       other  existing  0,4-waves  in  the  medium transversed, and this 
       interaction  can  involve pair-coupling into EM vector fields and 
       waves,  an  interaction  not  presently  in  the  electrodynamics 
       theory.   The  result  of  scalar  pair-coupling creates a finite 
       amount  of  vector  "drag"  on  the 0,4-wave, so it then has less 


                                  -- Page 3 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       than  infinite  velocity.   However, is this drag is small due to 
       limited  pair  coupling,  the  scalar wave's velocity through the 
       slightly  dragging medium still may be far greater than the speed 
       of  vector  EM waves (light) in vacuum. On the other hand, if the 
       pair-coupling  is made severe, the THETA-wave may move at a speed 
       considerably  below  the  speed  of vector light waves in vacuum. 
       The   velocity   of  the  0,4-wave  is  thus  both  variable  and 
       controllable  or  adjustable (e.g., simply by varying its initial 
       amplitude  which through a given medium changes the percentage of 
       pair-coupling  and  hence the degree of drag on the scalar wave.) 
       The  Tesla  scalar  wave  thus  can  have  either  subluminal  or 
       superluminal velocity, in contradiction to present theory.
       
       Note  that  the  scalar  wave  also  violates  one  of Einstein's 
       fundamental  postulates  --  for  the  speed  of our "new kind of 
       light"  wave  is  not  limited  to c, and need not be the same to 
       every  observer.   Thus  Tesla scalar waves lead to a new "super-
       relativity"  of  which  the present Einstein relativity is only a 
       highly special case!
       
       But  let  us now look for some subtle but real examples of scalar 
       waves  and  scalar  pair-coupling in nature.  As is well known, a 
       tectonic  fault  zone  can  provide anomalous lights, sounds, etc 
       from  stresses,  piezoelectrical  activity, and telluric currents 
       in  the earth and through the fault zone.  In examining the fault 
       zone  phenomena,  I  finally  realized  that  a  fault  zone  was 
       literally  a scalar interferometer --i.e., if one can have scalar 
       PHI-waves,   they   can   interfere   either   constructively  or 
       destructively.   Their  interference,  however,  produces  scalar 
       pair-coupling  into  vector  EM waves.  This coupling may be at a 
       distance   from   the   interferometer   itself,   and  thus  the 
       interferometer   can  produce  energy  directly  at  a  distance, 
       without   vector  transmission  through  the  intervening  space.  
       Coupling  of  THETA  waves  with  the  paired  scalars comprising 
       ordinary  EM  vector  waves  can  also  occur.   If  this triplex 
       coupling  forms  additional  EM  vector  waves 180 degrees out of 
       phase,  the  ordinary  EM wave is diminished or extinguished.  If 
       the  scalar  triplex  coupling  occurs  so as to create vector EM 
       waves, the amplitude of the ordinary vector wave is increased.
       
       Scalar  potential  waves  can thus augment or diminish, or create 
       or  destroy,  ordinary  EM  waves  at a distance by pair-coupling 
       interference   under  appropriate  conditions,  and  this  is  in 
       consonance  with the implications of Whittaker's fundamental 1903 
       work.
       
       An  earthquake  fault  zone  is  such  a  scalar  interferometer.  
       Stresses  and  charge  pileups  exist  in the plates on each side 
       adjacent  to the fault, with stress relief existing in the middle 
       in  the  fault  fracture  itself.   Since  the  rock  is  locally 
       nonlinear,  the mechanical stresses and electrical currents in it 
       are  also  locally  nonlinear.  This results in the generation of 
       multiple  frequencies  of  THETA-4-waves  from  each  side of the 
       fault  interferometer,  yielding  two  complex  Fourier expansion 


                                  -- Page 4 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       patterns  of  scalar  potential  waves.   On  occasion  these two 
       Fourier-transformed  scalar wave patterns couple at a distance to 
       produce   stable   ordinary   electromagnetic   fields  in  a  3-
       dimensional  spatial  pattern  --e.g., a stress light such as the 
       Vestigia  light  covered  in  Part  I  of The Excalibur Briefing.  
       Driven  by  the  erratic two scalar Fourier expansion patterns of 
       the  scalar  interferometer (whose input stresses normally slowly 
       change),  an  erratic,  darting,  hovering  "spooklight"  of  the 
       variety studied by Vestigia produced.
       
       As  the  stresses  change in each side of the interferometer, the 
       distant  scalar  coupling zone is affected.  Thus the stresslight 
       moves  and  its  form changes, but it may be relatively stable in 
       form  for  seconds or minutes. Since the stresses in the rock may 
       be  intense,  the  stress  light  may  involve an intense pair or 
       THETA-patterns  coupling  into  the  sphere  or ball of vector EM 
       energy.   The atoms and molecules of the air in the region of the 
       coupled  stresslight  ball thus become highly excited, giving off 
       radiant energy as the excited states decay.
       
       Since  much  of  the piezoelectric material in the stressed rocks 
       is  quartz,  the  features  of quartz are of particular interest.  
       Each  little  quartz  is  itself  highly stressed, and has stress 
       cracks.    It   is  therefore  a  little  scalar  interferometer.  
       Further,  quartz is transparent to infrared and ultraviolet;  and 
       the  random  orientation of all the quartz scalar interferometers 
       may   also   form  a  Prigogine  system  far  from  thermodynamic 
       equilibrium.   If  so,  this system can tap into highly energetic 
       microscopic  electromagnetic fluctuations to produce large-scale, 
       ordered,  relatively stable patterns of electromagnetic energy at 
       a distance.
       
       In  short,  all  of  this  lends  support  to  the  formation  of 
       relatively    stable    but    somewhat   erratic   patterns   of 
       electromagnetic  energy  at a distance from the fault itself.  In 
       the  atmosphere, such scalar interferometers could form in clouds 
       or  even  in  the  air  or between clouds and earth.  If so, such 
       rare   but  occasional  "weather"  scalar  interferometers  could 
       account  for the rare phenomenon of ball lightening.  The intense 
       energy  of  the ball lightening, as compared to the lesser energy 
       of  an  earth  stress  light,  could  well be due to the enormous 
       electrical  charges  between  clouds  or between cloud and earth, 
       available  to  fuel  the scalar interferometer.  Very probably it 
       is  this  phenomenon  which  gave  Tesla  the clue to scalar wave 
       interferometry.
       
       Thus  such phenomena as earth stress lights, ball lightening, and 
       the  Tesla  system  of  wireless  transmission  of  energy  at  a 
       distance  with  negligible  lasses  and  at  speeds exceeding the 
       speed  of light may be explained.  They are complex, however, and 
       involve  fundamental  changes  to present electromagnetic theory.  
       These  changes  include  utilizing  4-space  scalar electrostatic 
       potentials,  scalar  waves, pair coupling, ordinary 3-dimensional 


                                  -- Page 5 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       Fourier  expansion,  the  Prigogine effect, and the properties of 
       piezoelectric materials in rocks.
       
       Since  the scalar potential also stresses time, it can change the 
       rate  of  flow  of  time  itself.  Thus it affects anything which 
       exists  in time -- including the mind, both of the individual and 
       at   various  levels  of  unconsciousness.   Therefore  the  same 
       functions  that  result  in  earth stress lights also affect mind 
       and  thought, and are in turn affected by mind and thought.  This 
       is  the  missing  ingredient in Persinger's theory that UFO's are 
       correlated   with,  and  a  result  of,  fault  zones  and  earth 
       stresses.   While  Persinger  seems  to  feel  this  is a "normal 
       physics"   explanation,   it   indeed   involves   a   paranormal 
       explanation.
       
       The  time-stressing  ability  of  the true THETA scalar wave also 
       explains  the interaction of such earth stress lights with humans 
       and  human  intent,  as  noted  by other researchers.  (E.g., the 
       lights  that  repeatedly  seemed  to  react  to the observers, as 
       detailed  by  Dr.  Harley  Rutledge  in  his epoch-making Project 
       Identification, Prentice-Hall, 1981.)
       
       These  ideas  in condensed form comprise the concepts required to 
       violate   the   speed   of   light   and   produce   an  ordinary 
       electromagnetic    field    at    a    distance,   using   scalar 
       interferometry,  without  losses  --  as  Tesla  had  done in his 
       wireless  transmission  system  which he had tested prior to 1900 
       and  had perfected by the 1930's.  Scalar interferometry can give 
       stable  regions  of  EM  or  "light energy" at a distance without 
       losses,  particularly  as  detailed  in  the  beautiful  Vestigia 
       experiments,  and  it  is  within  our  grasp  to utilize the new 
       effects.   Indeed,  any  stress crack in a material can result in 
       the   scalar  potential  interferometer  effect.   Exophoton  and 
       exoelectron  emission  --  poorly understood but already known in 
       fatiguing  of  materials  --  must  be at least partly due to the 
       scalar interferometer effect.
       
       However,  one  additional  caution  should  be  advanced.  Normal 
       movement  of  electrons allows so much "sideplay" movement of the 
       electrons  --  and there is so much such sideplay electron motion 
       in  the  surrounding  vicinity  --  that  pair coupling is almost 
       instantaneous  for  small waves.  Thus orbital electrons in atoms 
       seem  to  absorb  and emit vector EM photons.  Actually they also 
       emit  some  percentage  of  scalar waves as well.  Since a scalar 
       wave  is  comprised  exclusively  of  disturbance  in the virtual 
       state,   it  need  not  obey  the  conservation  of  energy  law.  
       Further,  a  scalar  wave  of itself does not "push electrons" or 
       other  charges;   hence  it  is  nearly  indetectable  by present 
       detectors.   Ionization  detectors such as a Geiger counter tube, 
       e.g.,  are  exceptions  if  the scalar wave encountered is fairly 
       strong.   In  that  case  sufficient  triplex  coupling  with the 
       ionized  gas  occurs  to produce additional ionization or charge, 
       breaching  the  tube's  cutoff  threshold and producing a cascade 
       discharge  of  electrons and voltage which is detected.  But weak 


                                  -- Page 6 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       scalar    waves    are   presently   indetectable   by   ordinary 
       instruments.   However,  these  small scalar waves are detectable 
       by  sensitive  interferometry  techniques  --  e.g.,  such  as an 
       electron  interferometer.   Since  the use of such instruments is 
       quite  rare, then indeed we have been living immersed in a sea of 
       scalar waves without knowing it.
       
       Finally,  the  percentage  of scalar waves produced by changes in 
       charged  mass  pileups can be increased by utilizing charged mass 
       streaming.   Essentially   the   charged  masses  must  be  moved 
       suddenly,  as  quickly  as  possible,  at  or  near  the complete 
       breakdown  of  the  medium.   For  this  reason,  Tesla  utilized 
       sparkgaps  in his early transmission systems, but also found that 
       he  could  induce ionized media to "breakdown" in such fashion by 
       a  slow  growth  process.   One of his early patented atmospheric 
       wireless  transmission  systems  is based on this fact.  However, 
       it  was  necessary  to  use a very high voltage, insuring extreme 
       stress  on  the  medium and hence some spillover stress onto time 
       itself.   In other words, THETA-3 is always an approximation;  at 
       sufficiently  high  spatial  stress, sufficient spillover THETA-4 
       exists  to  give Tesla scalar waves.  For this reason, Tesla used 
       very  high  voltages  and  extremely  sharp  discharges  to  give 
       "streaming"  of  the  charged masses and thus high percentages of 
       THETA-4  waves.   This suggests that the breakdown of dielectrics 
       is  a much richer phenomenon than is presently allowed for in the 
       conventional theory.
       
       To  summarize, electrostatic potential -- THETA field --is stress 
       on  the  spacetime  medium at a four-dimensional point.  I.e., it 
       is  a  sort  of  pressure on the medium, but pressure on all four 
       dimensions,  not  just  on the three spatial dimensions.  Thus in 
       the  new  standard  theory,  THETA-4 may have complex values.  In 
       addition,   a   PHI-wave   is  to  be  interpreted  as  a  scalar 
       longitudinal  wave  in  complex spacetime -- directly in THETA-0, 
       the  normal  average  4-space  stress  itself.   And  charge  and 
       charged  mass  must be recognized as two separate concepts.  This 
       is  the  gist  of  what I finally recognized about Nikola Tesla's 
       work and fundamental discovery.
       
       This  is  exciting,  for  it  means  that  Tesla stress waves can 
       affect  either space or time individually, or both space and time 
       simultaneously,   or   even  oscillate  back  and  forth  between 
       primarily  affecting time and primarily affecting space.  Tesla's 
       waves  were  actually  these  THETA-field  scalar waves. As such, 
       they  were  fundamentally different from ordinary electromagnetic 
       waves,  and had entirely different characteristics, just as Tesla 
       often  stated. E.g., a Tesla wave can either move spatially, with 
       time  flowing  linearly; move temporally only (sitting at a point 
       and  waxing  and  waning in magnitude -- but changing the rate of 
       flow  of  time  itself  in  doing so, and affecting gravitational 
       field,  fundamental  constants  of  nature,  etc.),  or move in a 
       combination  of  the  two  modes.   In the latter case, the Tesla 
       wave  moves  in space with a very strange motion -- it oscillates 
       between  (1)  spatially  standing still and flexing time, and (2) 


                                  -- Page 7 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       moving  smoothly  in  space while time flows smoothly and evenly.  
       I.e.,  it  stands  at  one  point  (or  at  one columnar region), 
       flexing  for  a  moment;   then  slowly picks up spatial velocity 
       until  it is moving smoothly through space; then slows down again 
       to  a "standing column," etc.  This is Tesla's fabulous "standing 
       columnar wave."
       
       Another  wild  characteristic  of  the  Tesla wave is that it can 
       affect  the  rate of flow of time itself;  hence it can affect or 
       change  every other field -- including the gravitational field -- 
       that  exists  in  time  flow.   It  can also affect all universal 
       constants,  the mass of an object, the inertia of a body, and the 
       mind  and  thoughts  as  well!  All of these exist in the flow of 
       time,  and  they  are  affected  if the time stream in which they 
       exist  is  affected.   This  was  the  awful  secret  that  Tesla 
       partially  discovered  by  1900, and which he came  more and more 
       to  fully  realize  as he pursued it nature and its ramifications 
       into the 1920's and 1930's.
       
       Tesla  also  found  he  could  set  up standing THETA-field waves 
       through  the  earth.   He  in  fact intended to do so, for he had 
       also  discovered  that  all  charges in the highly stressed earth 
       regions  in  which  such  a standing wave existed produced THETA-
       fields  which would feed (kindle) energy into the standing THETA-
       field  wave  by  pair coupling.  I.e., normal vector field energy 
       would  "assemble"  onto  the scalar matrix wave by means of pair-
       coupling.   Thus by transmitting a scalar wave into the earth, he 
       could  easily  tap the fiery scalar fields produced in the molten 
       core   of   the   planet   itself,  turning  them  into  ordinary 
       electromagnetic  energy.   In such case, a single generator would 
       enable  anyone  to  put  up  a simple antenna and extract all the 
       free energy they desired.
       
       When  Tesla's  alarmed  financial backers discovered this was his 
       real  intent, they considered him a dangerous madman and found it 
       necessary  to  ruthlessly  stop  his  at  all  costs.  And so his 
       financial  support  was  withdrawn,  he  was harassed in his more 
       subtle   patent   efforts   (and   the  patents  themselves  were 
       adulterated),  and  his  name  gradually was removed from all the 
       electrical  textbooks.   By 1914 Tesla, who had been the greatest 
       inventor  and  scientist  in  the world, had become essentially a 
       nonperson.
       
       A  few  other  persons  in  the early 1900's also were aware that 
       potential  and  voltage  are  different.   And  some of them even 
       learned  to  utilize  Tesla's  PHI-field,  even  though they only 
       vaguely  understood they were utilizing a fundamentally different 
       kind  of  electromagnetic wave.  For example, James Harris Rogers 
       patented  an undersea and underground communications system which 
       Tesla  later  confirmed  utilized Tesla waves.  The U.S. secretly 
       used   the  Rogers  communications  system  in  World  War  I  to 
       communicate  with U. S. submarines underwater, and to communicate 
       through   the   earth   to   the   American  Expeditionary  Force 
       Headquarters  in  Europe.   The  Rogers  system  was declassified 


                                  -- Page 8 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       after  the War --and very shortly after that, it had mysteriously 
       been  scrubbed  off  the  face  of  the  earth.  Again, potential 
       stress waves -- Tesla waves -- were eliminated and "buried."
       
       Probably  the most brilliant inventor and researcher into Tesla's 
       electromagnetics  was  T.  Henry  Moray  of Salt Lake City, Utah.  
       Dr.  Moray actually succeeded in tapping the limitless zero-point 
       energy  of  vacuum  (spacetime)  itself.   By  1939,  Dr. Moray`s 
       amplifier  contained  29  stages and its output stage produced 50 
       kilowatts  of  power  from  vacuum.   Interestingly,  another  50 
       kilowatts  could  be  tapped off any other stage in the device -- 
       which  consequently  could  have produced almost 1.5 megawatts of 
       electrical  power!   Dr. Moray`s epoch-making work was suppressed 
       also.    His  device  --  which  represented  over  20  years  of 
       heartbreaking  accumulation  of  29  working tubes from thousands 
       made  --  was destroyed by a Soviet agent in 1939, but not before 
       the  agent  had  obtained  the drawing for building the tubes and 
       the  device  itself.   Today  the  Moray  amplifier is a standard 
       component  of  many  of  the Soviet secret superweapons and Tesla 
       weapons.
       
       In  the  20`s  and  30`s, Tesla announced the final perfection of 
       his  wireless  transmission  of  energy without losses -- even to 
       interplanetary   distances.    In   several  articles  (e.g.,  H. 
       Winfield  Secor,  "Tesla Maps Our Electrical Future," Science and 
       Invention,  Vol.  XVII,  No. 12, pp. 1077, 1124-1126), Tesla even 
       revealed  he used longitudinal stress waves in his wireless power 
       transmission.   Quoting  from  the  article,  "Tesla  upholds the 
       startling  theory  formulated  by  him  long  ago, that the radio 
       transmitters  as  now  used, do not emit Hertz waves, as commonly 
       believed,  but waves of sound."  "He says that a Hertz wave would 
       only  be  possible  in  a  solid  either, but he has demonstrated 
       already  in  1897  that  the  either  is  a  gas,  which can only 
       transmit  waves  of  sound;   that  is  such as are propagated by 
       alternate  compressions  and  rarefactions of the medium in which 
       transverse  waves are absolutely impossible."  The wily Tesla did 
       not  reveal,  of  course,  that  such  scalar waves nearly always 
       immediately  pair-coupled  into  vector  waves  when  produced by 
       normal  means.   Tesla  himself  was  working  with  longitudinal 
       scalar waves.
       
       In   the  1930`s  Tesla  announced  other  bizarre  and  terrible 
       weapons:   a  death  ray,  a  weapon  to destroy hundreds or even 
       thousands  of  aircraft  at  hundreds  of  miles  range,  and his 
       ultimate  weapon  to  end  all  war  --  the  Tesla shield, which 
       nothing  could  penetrate.   However,  by  this  time  no one any 
       longer  paid  any  real  attention to the forgotten great genius.  
       Tesla  died  in  1943  without ever revealing the secret of these 
       great weapons.
       
       Unfortunately,  today  in  1981  the  Soviet Union has long since 
       discovered  and  weaponized  the Tesla scalar wave effects.  Here 
       we   only  have  time  to  detail  the  most  powerful  of  these 
       frightening  Tesla  weapons  --  which  Brezhnev  undoubtedly was 


                                  -- Page 9 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       referring  to  in  1975  when  the  Soviet side at the SALT talks 
       suddenly  suggested limiting the development of new weapons "more 
       frightening  than  the  mind  of man had imagined."  One of these 
       weapons   is   the  Tesla  howitzer  recently  completed  at  the 
       Saryshagan  missile range and presently considered to be either a 
       high  energy laser or a particle beam weapon.  (See Aviation Week 
       &  Space  Technology,  July  28,  1980,  p.  48  for  an artist's 
       conception.)
       
       The   Saryshagan   howitzer  actually  is  a  huge  Tesla  scalar 
       interferometer  with  four  modes  of  operation.  One continuous 
       mode  is  the  Tesla  shield,  which  places a thin, impenetrable 
       hemispherical shell of energy over a large defended area.  The 3-
       dimensional   shell   is  created  by  intefereing  two  Fourier-
       expansion,  3-dimensional  scalar hemispherical patterns in space 
       so  they  pair-couple into a dome-like shell of intense, ordinary 
       electromagnetic  energy.   The  air  molecules  and  atoms in the 
       shell  are  totally  ionized  and thus highly excited, giving off 
       intense,  glowing  light.  Anything physical which hits the shell 
       receives  an  enormous  discharge  of  electrical  energy  and is 
       instantly  vaporized  -- it goes pfft!  like a bug hitting one of 
       the electrical bug killers now so much in vogue.
       
       If  several  of  these  hemispherical  shells  are concentrically 
       stacked,  even  the  gamma radiation and EMP from a high altitude 
       nuclear  explosion  above  the  stack  cannot  penetrate  all the 
       shells   due  to  repetitive  absorption  and  re-radiation,  and 
       scattering in the layered plasmas.
       
       In  the  continuous  shield mode, the Tesla interferometer is fed 
       by  a  bank  of  Moray  free  energy generators, so that enormous 
       energy  is available in the shield.  A diagram of the Saryshagan-
       type  Tesla  howitzer  can  be  seen in drawing TESLA-1.  TESLA-2 
       shows the Tesla shield produced by the howitzer.
       
       In  the  pulse mode, a single intense 3-dimensional scalar Theta-
       field   pulse   form   is  fired,  using  two  truncated  Fourier 
       transforms,  each  involving  several frequencies, to provide the 
       proper  3-dimensional  shape  (TESLA-3).   This is why two scalar 
       antennas  separated  by  a  baseline  are required.  After a time 
       delay  calculated  for the particular target, a second and faster 
       pulse  form  of  the  same shape is fired from the interferometer 
       antennas.   The  second  pulse  overtakes  the first, catching it 
       over  the target zone and pair-coupling with it to instantly form 
       a  violent  EMP  of  ordinary  vector  (Hertzian) electromagnetic 
       energy.   There  is  thus no vector transmission loss between the 
       howitzer  and the burst.  Further, the coupling time is extremely 
       short,  and the energy will appear sharply in an "electromagnetic 
       pulse  (EMP)"  striking  similar to the 2-pulsed EMP of a nuclear 
       weapon.   This  type  is  what  actually  caused  the  mysterious 
       flashes  off the southwest coast of Africa, picked up in 1979 and 
       1980  by  Vela  satellites.   The  second flash, e.g., was in the 
       infrared  only, with no visible spectrum.  Nuclear flashes do not 
       do  that,  and  neither does super-lightening, meteorite strikes, 


                                  -- Page 10 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       meteors,  etc.  In addition, one of the scientists at the Arecibo 
       Ionospheric    Observatory    observed   a   gravitational   wave 
       disturbance  --  signature  of  the truncated Fourier pattern and 
       the   time-squeezing  effect  of  the  Tesla  potential  wave  -- 
       traveling toward the vicinity of the explosion.
       
       The  pulse  mode may be fed from either Moray generators or -- if 
       the  Moray  generators  have  suffered their anomalous "all fail" 
       malfunction  --  ordinary  explosive  generators.  Thus the Tesla 
       howitzer  can  always  function in the pulse mode, but it will be 
       limited in power if the Moray generators fail.
       
       In the continuous mode, two continuous scalar waves are emitted -
       -  one  faster than the other -- and they pair-couple into vector 
       energy  at  the region where they approach an in-phase condition.  
       In  this  mode,  the  energy  in  the distant "ball" or geometric 
       region  would appear continuously and be sustained -- and this is 
       Tesla's  secret  of wireless transmission of energy at a distance 
       without   losses.   It  is  also  the  secret  of  a  "continuous 
       fireball"  weapon  capable  of destroying hundreds of aircraft or 
       missiles at a distance.
       
       The  volume of the Tesla fireball can be vastly expanded to yield 
       a  globe  which  will  not  vaporize  physical  vehicles but will 
       deliver  and  EMP  to  them  to dud their electronics.  A test of 
       this   mode  has  already  been  witnessed,  See  Gwyne  Roberts, 
       "Witness  to  a Super Weapon?, the London Sunday Times, 17 August 
       1980  for  several  tests  of  this mode at Saryshagan, seen from 
       Afghanistan  by British TV cameraman and former War Correspondent 
       Nick Downie.
       
       If  the Moray generators fail anomalously, then a continuous mode 
       limited  in  power  and  range  could conceivably be sustained by 
       powering  the interferometer from more conventional power sources 
       such as advanced magneto-hydrodynamic generators.
       
       Typical  strategic  ABM uses of Tesla weapons are shown in Tesla-
       4.   In  addition,  of course, smaller Tesla howitzer systems for 
       anti-tactical  ballistic  missile  defense of tactical troops and 
       installations  could  be  constituted  of more conventional field 
       missile  systems  using paired or triplet radars, of conventional 
       external appearance, in a scalar interferometer mode.
       
       With  Moray  generators  as  power  sources and multiply deployed 
       reentry  vehicles  with  scalar  antennas  and transmitters, ICBM 
       reentry  systems  now  can  become  long  range "blasters" of the 
       target  areas,  from  thousands of kilometers distance (TESLA-5).  
       Literally,  "Star   Wars"  is  liberated by the Tesla technology.  
       And  in  air  attack,  jammers and ECM aircraft now become "Tesla 
       blasters."   With  the  Tesla technology, emitters become primary 
       fighting components of stunning power.
       
       


                                  -- Page 11 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       The  potential  peaceful  implications  of  Tesla  waves are also 
       enormous.   By  utilizing  the "time squeeze" effect, one can get 
       antigravity,      materialization      and     dematerialization, 
       transmutation,  and mind boggling medical benefits.  One can also 
       get  subluminal  and  superluminal communication, see through the 
       earth  and  through  the ocean, etc.  The new view of Theta-field 
       also  provides  a unified field theory, higher orders of reality, 
       and  a  new  super-relativity,  but detailing these possibilities 
       must wait for another book.
       
       With  two cerebral brain halves, the human being also has a Tesla 
       scalar  interferometer between his ears.  And since the brain and 
       nervous  system  processes  avalanche  discharges, it can produce 
       (and  detect)  scalar  Tesla  waves to at least a limited degree.  
       Thus  a  human  can  sometimes  produce anomalous spatio-temporal 
       effects  at  a distance and through time.  This provides an exact 
       mechanism   for   psychokinesis,   levitation,  psychic  healing, 
       telepathy,  precognition, postcognition, remote viewing, etc.  It 
       also  provides a reason why an individual can detect a "stick" on 
       a   radionics  or  Hieronymus  machine  (which  processes  scalar 
       waves),  when  ordinary  detectors detect nothing.  Unfortunately 
       there  is  not  room  to  develop  the implications of this human 
       Tesla  interferometry  in  detail,  for  that  must  wait for yet 
       another  book, presently in its initial stages, that Hal Crawford 
       and I are writing.
       
       At   the   July  1981  U.S.  Psychotronics  Association's  Annual 
       Conference  in Dayton, Ohio, I presented the first rough paper on 
       the  Tesla  secret and scalar interferometry.  A videotape of the 
       presentation  was  made and will shortly be available.  I am also 
       scheduled  to make a special presentation at the Alternate Energy 
       Conference  in  Toronto,  Canada  in  latter  October,  1981.   A 
       professional,  videotaped  two-hour  presentation on this subject 
       is  also  being  prepared.   Wide  distribution  of  the material 
       through  the  international  underground  physics  and technology 
       network  has  already been made.  This time, God willing, Tesla's 
       secret will not be suppresses for another 80 years!
       
       And  perhaps  it  is  not yet too late.  The material has cost me 
       (now)  some 16 years of agonizing labor and nearly $100,000 of my 
       own  personal  funds.   No orthodox university, scientific group, 
       foundation,  or governmental agency would support such an effort, 
       either  financially or otherwise.  Indeed, most ordinary journals 
       will  not even accept material on such matters.  Nonetheless, the 
       area  is  of  overwhelming  importance  --  and  I  truly believe 
       Tesla's  lost secret will shortly affect the lives of every human 
       being on earth.
       
       Perhaps  with  the  free  and open release of Tesla`s secret, the 
       scientific  and  governmental bureaucracies will be shocked awake 
       from  their slumber, and we can develop defense before Armageddon 
       occurs.   Perhaps  there  is hope after all -- for even Brezhnev, 
       in  his  strange July, 1975 proposal to the SALT talks, seemed to 
       reveal  a  perception  that  a turning point in wear and weaponry 


                                  -- Page 12 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       may  have  been  reached, and that human imagination is incapable 
       of  dealing  with the ability to totally engineer reality itself.  
       Having  tested  the  weapons,  the Soviets must be aware that the 
       ill-provoked  oscillation  of  time  flow  affects  the minds and 
       thoughts  --  and  the  very life streams and even the collective 
       species  unconsciousness  --  of  all  life forms on earth.  They 
       must  know  that these weapons are two-edged swords, and that the 
       backlash  from  their  use  can  be far more terrible to the user 
       than was the original effect to his victim.
       
       If  we  can  avoid the Apocalypse, the fantastic secret of Nikola 
       Tesla  can  be  employed  to  cure and elevate man, not kill him.  
       Tesla's   discovery   can  eventually  remove  every  conceivable 
       external  human  limitation.   If we humans ourselves can elevate 
       our    consciousness    to    properly    utilize    the    Tesla 
       electromagnetics,   then   Nikola   Tesla  --  who  gave  us  the 
       electrical  twentieth  century in the first place -- may yet give 
       us  a fantastic new future more shining and glorious than all the 
       great scientists and sages have imagined.
       
       
                         For references, refer to files
       
       
                                    Part II
       
              Reference Articles for Solutions to Tesla's Secrets
       
       The Electrical Engineer - London
       Dec. 24, 1909, p. 893
       
       NIKOLA TESLA`S NEW WIRELESS
       
       Mr.  Nikola Tesla has announced that as the result of experiments 
       conducted  at  Shoreham,  Long  Island,  he  has  perfected a new 
       system   of  wireless  telegraphy  and  telephony  in  which  the 
       principles  of  transmission  are the direct opposite of Hertzian 
       wave  transmission.   In the latter, he says, the transmission is 
       effected  by  rays  akin to light, which pass through the air and 
       cannot  be  transmitted  through  the ground, while in the former 
       the  Hertz waves are practically suppressed and the entire energy 
       of  the  current  is  transmitted  through  the ground exactly as 
       though  a  big  wire.   Mr. Tesla adds that in his experiments in 
       Colorado  it  was shown that a very powerful current developed by 
       the  transmitter  traversed  the entire globe and returned to its 
       origin  in  an  interval  of 84 one-thousandths of a second, this 
       journey  of  24,000  miles  being effected almost without loss of 
       energy.
       
       
       NEW YORK TIMES
       Dec. 8, 1915, p. 8, col. 3
       
       TESLA'S NEW DEVICE LIKE BOLTS OF THOR
       


                                  -- Page 13 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       
       He  Seeks  to  Patent  Wireless  Engine  for Destroying Navies by 
       Pulling a Lever.
       
       To Shatter Armies Also.
       
       "Impractical,"  He  says  of  Westerner's  Plan to Circle Country 
       with Electric Fire.
       
       Nikola  Tesla,  the  inventor,  winner  of the 1915 Nobel Physics 
       Prize,  has filed patent applications on the essential parts of a 
       machine  the  possibilities  of which test a layman's imagination 
       and  promise  a parallel of Thor's shouting thunderbolts from the 
       sky  to  punish  those  who  angered the gods.  Dr. Tesla insists 
       there  is  nothing  sensational  about  it,  that  it  is but the 
       fruition  of  many  years of work and study.  He is not yet ready 
       to  give  the  details  of  the  engine which he says will render 
       fruitless   any  military  expedition  against  a  country  which 
       possesses  it.   Suffice  to  say  that the destructive invention 
       will  go  through  space  with a speed of 300 miles a second, and 
       manless  airship  without  propelling  engine  or  wings, sent by 
       electricity  to  any  desired point on the globe on its errand of 
       destruction, if destruction its manipulator wishes to effect.
       
       Ten  miles  or  a  thousand miles, it will be all the same to the 
       machine,  the  inventor  says.  Straight to the point, on land or 
       on  sea,  it will be able to go with precision, delivering a blow 
       that  will  paralyze of kill, as is desired.  A man in a tower on 
       Long  Island  could  shield  New  York  against  ships or army by 
       working   a   lever,   if  the  inventor's  anticipations  become 
       realizations.
       
       "It  is  not the time," said Dr. Tesla yesterday, "to go into the 
       details  of  this thing.  It is founded on a principle that means 
       great  things  in  peace, it can be used for great things in war.  
       But I repeat, this is no time to talk of such things.
       
       "It  is  perfectly  practicable  to  transmit  electrical  energy 
       without  wires  and produce destructive effects at a distance.  I 
       have  already constructed a wireless transmitter which makes this 
       possible,  and  have  described  it in my technical publications, 
       among   which  I  may  refer  to  my  patent  1,119,732  recently 
       granted.   With  transmitters  of  this  kind  we  are enabled to 
       project  electrical  energy  in  any  amount  to any distance and 
       apply  it  for  innumerable  purposes,  both  in  peace  and war.  
       Through  the  universal adoption of this system, ideal conditions 
       for  the  maintenance of law and order will be realized, for then 
       the  energy  necessary  to  the  enforcement of right and justice 
       will  be  normally  productive,  yet potential, and in any moment 
       available,  for  attack  and defense.  The power transmitted need 
       not  be  necessarily  destructive,  for,  if existence is made to 
       depend  upon  it,  its  withdrawal or supply will bring about the 
       same results as those now accomplished by force of arms.
       
       


                                  -- Page 14 --
                                  Nikola Tesla
                                       and
                               The Tesla Howitzer


       Dr.  Tesla  then said that it would be possible with his wireless 
       mechanism  to direct an ordinary aeroplane, manless, to any point 
       over  a  ship  or  an  army, and to discharge explosives of great 
       strength from the base of operations.
       
       Asked  to express an opinion upon the announcement last Sunday of 
       Charles  H.  Harris, and electrical engineer of Los Angeles, that 
       he  would  be  able  to  surround this country with an electrical 
       wall  of  fire  in  time of war, Dr. Tesla gave it as his opinion 
       that Mr. Harris was not practical.
       
       "It  is  hard  to  stamp  as  impossible  such  results  as those 
       described  in  the press dispatches to which you refer.  Granted, 
       however,  that  the  project is feasible, it would take more than 
       all  the  motive power obtainable in the United States to throw a 
       wall  of  fire  around the country.  In fact, even the passage of 
       small  currents  at considerable distances through air consumes a 
       great   deal  of  energy  on  account  of  the  immense  pressure 
       required.   So,  for  instance,  in lightening discharges, energy 
       may  be  delivered at the rated of billions of horsepower, though 
       the  currents  are  of  smaller  volume  than  those developed by 
       electrical generators in our power houses."
       
       
       
       
                                 END OF REPORT
                                                         