



3.RM 7.50"
THEORETICAL ELECTROMAGNETIC STUDIES AND LEARNING ASSOCIATION, INC.
                      522 WEST THIRD STREET
                   LEADVILLE, COLORADO  80461
                         (719) 486-0133


THE INFLUENCE OF VEDIC PHILOSOPHY ON NIKOLA TESLA'S UNSTANDIING FREE ENERGY

          "The first thing to realize about the ether is its  absolute
         continuity.  A  deep  sea  fish  has  probably  no  means  of
         apprehending  the existence  of water;   it is too  uniformly
         immersed in it: and that is our  condition  in regard to  the
         ether."
                     Sir Oliver Lodge, Ether and Reality.


                                   ABSTRACT

      Nikola Tesla used ancient Sanskrit terminology in his descriptions of
    natural phenomena.  As early as 1891 Tesla described the universe as  a
    kinetic  system  filled  with energy which could be  harnessed  at  any
    location.   His  concepts  during  the  following  years  were  greatly
    influenced  by the teachings of Swami Vivekananda.   Swami  Vivekananda
    was  the  first  of a succession of eastern yogi's  who  brought  Vedic
    philosophy and religion to the west.  After meeting the Swami and after
    continued  study  of  the Eastern view of the  mechanisms  driving  the
    material world, Tesla began using the Sanskrit words Akasha, Prana, and
    the  concept of a luminiferous ether to describe the source,  existence
    and  construction of matter.  This paper will trace the development  of
    Tesla's  understanding of Vedic Science, his correspondence  with  Lord
    Kelvin  concerning  these matters, and the relation between  Tesla  and
    Walter  Russell  and other turn of the  century  scientists  concerning
    advanced  understanding of physics.  Finally, after being obscured  for
    many  years, the author will give a description of what he believes  is
    the the pre-requisite for the free energy systems envisioned by Tesla .

             TESLA'S EARLIER DESCRIPTION OF THE PHYSICAL UNIVERSE

      By  the  year 1891, Nikola Tesla had invented  many  useful  devices.
    These included a system of arc lighting (1886), the alternating current
    motor,  power  generation and transmission systems (1888),  systems  of
    electrical  conversion  and  distribution  by  oscillatory   discharges
    (1889),  and a generator of high frequency currents (1890), to  name  a
    few.   The  most well known patent centers around an  inspiration  that
    occurred while walking with a friend in a park in Budapest, Hungry.  It
    was while observing the sunset that Tesla had a vision of how  rotating
    electromagnetic  fields could be used in a new form of electric  motor.
    This  led  to  the  well  known  system  of  alternating current power
    distribution.  In 1891 however, Tesla patented what one day may  become
    his  most  famous  invention.   It  is  the  basis  for  the   wireless
    transmission  of  electrical  power  and is  know  as  the  Tesla  Coil
    Transformer.   It  was during this year that Tesla made  the  following
    comments  during a speech before the American Institute  of  Electrical






    Engineers;




          "Ere many generations pass, our machinery will be driven  by
         a  power obtainable at any point in the universe.  This  idea
         is  not  novel...   We  find  it in the  delightful  myth  of
         Antheus, who derives power from  the  earth; we find it among
         the   subtle   speculations   of   one   of   your   splendid
         mathematicians...   Throughout   space there is  energy.   Is
         this  energy static or kinetic.?  If static our hopes are  in
         vain;  if kinetic -  and this  we know it is, for  certain  -
         then it is a mere question  of  time when  men  will  succeed
         in  attaching  their  machinery  to  the  very  wheelwork  of
         nature."  1

      This description of the physical mechanisms of the universe was given
    before  Tesla  became familiar with the Vedic science  of  the  eastern
    Nations of India, Tibet, and Nepal.  This science was first  popualized
    in the United States and the west during the three year visit of Swami
    Vivekananda.

                      VEDIC SCIENCE AND SWAMI VIVEKANANDA

      The Vedas are a collection of writings consisting of hymns,  prayers,
    myths, historical accounting, dissertations on science, and the  nature
    of  reality,  which  date back at least 5,000  years.   The  nature  of
    matter,  antimatter, and the make up of atomic structure are  described
    in  the  Vedas.  The language of the Vedas is known as  Sanskrit.   The
    origin  of Sanskrit is not fully understood.  Western scholars  suggest
    that  it was brought into the Himalayas and thence south into India  by
    the  southward migrations of the Aryan culture.  Paramahansa  Yogananda
    and other historians however  do not subscribe to that theory, pointing
    out  that  there  is  no evidence within  India  to  substantiate  such
    claims. 2

      There are words in Sanskrit that describe concepts totally foreign to
    the  western  mind.   Single words may require  a  full  paragraph  for
    translation  into english.  Having studied Sanskrit for a brief  period
    during  the late 70's, it finally occurred to this writer that  Tesla's
    use of Vedic terminology could provide a key to understanding his  view
    of  electromagnetism  and the nature of the universe.   But  where  did
    Tesla  learn Vedic concepts and Sanskrit terminology?  A review of  the
    well  known biographies by Cheney, Hunt and Draper, and  O'Neil  3,4,5,
    reveal  no  mention of Tesla's knowledge of Sanskrit.   O'Neal  however
    includes the following excerpt from an unpublished article called Man's
    Greatest Achievement;

          "There manifests itself in the fully developed being ,  Man,
         a   desire     mysterious, inscrutable and  irresistible:  to
         imitate  nature, to create, to  work himself the  wonders  he
         perceives....    Long   ago   he   recognized      that   all
         perceptible  matter  comes  from  a  primary  substance,   or
         tenuity  beyond conception, filling all space, the Akasha  or
         luminiferous   ether, which is acted upon by the life  giving






         Prana  or creative force, calling into  existence,  in  never
         ending  cycles  all  things  and  phenomena.    The   primary
         substance,    thrown    into    infinitesimal    whirls    of
         prodigious   velocity,  becomes  gross  matter;   the   force
         subsiding,   the  motion   ceases  and   matter   disappears,
         reverting to the primary substance."
        According  to  Leland Anderson the article was  written  May  13th,
    1907.   Anderson  also suggested that it was through  association  with
    Swami  Vivekananda that Tesla may have come into contact with  Sanskrit
    terminology  and  that  John  Dobson  of  the  San  Francisco  Sidewalk
    Astronomers Association had researched that association. 6

      Swami  Vivekananda  was  born in Calcutta, India  in  1863.   He  was
    inspired   by  his  teacher,  Ramakrishna  to  serve  men  as   visible
    manifestations  of God.  In 1893 Swami Vivekananda began a tour of  the
    west by attending the Parliament of Religions held in Chicago.   During
    the  three  years  that  he  toured  the  United  States  and   Europe,
    Vivekananda  met  with many of the well known scientists  of  the  time
    including  Lord  Kelvin  and  Nikola  Tesla.  7   According  to   Swami
    Nikhilananda;

           Nikola  Tesla, the great scientist who specialized  in  the
         field  of  electricity, was much impressed to hear  from  the
         Swami his explanation of the Samkhya cosmogony and the theory
         of cycles given by the Hindus.  He was particularly struck by
         the  resemblance  between the Samkhya theory  of  matter  and
         energy and that of modern physics.  The Swami also met in New
         York  Sir  William  Thompson,  afterwards  Lord  Kelvin,  and
         Professor  Helmholtz, two leading representatives of  western
         science.   Sarah Bernhardt, the famous French actress had  an
         interview with the Swami and greatly admired his teachings. 8


      It was at a party given by Sarah Bernhardt that Nikola Tesla probably
    first met Swami Vivekananda. 9  Sarah Bernhardt was playing the part of
    'Iziel' in a play of the same name.  It was a French version about  the
    life  of  Bhudda.   The actress upon seeing Swami  Vivekananda  in  the
    audience,  arranged a meeting which was also attended by Nikola  Tesla.
    In  a letter to a friend, dated February 13th, 1896, Swami  Vivekananda
    noted the following;

           ...Mr.  Tesla was charmed to hear about the Vedantic  Prana
         and  Akasha  and the Kalpas, which according to him  are  the
         only  theories  modern  science  can  entertain.....Mr  Tesla
         thinks he can demonstrate that mathematically that force  and
         matter are reducible to potential energy.  I am to go see him
         next week to get this mathematical demonstration. 10

      Swami  Vivekananda was hopeful that Tesla would be able to show  that
    what  we  call  matter is simply potential energy  because  that  would
    reconcile  the teachings of the Vedas with modern science.   The  Swami
    realized  that "In that case, the Vedantic cosmology [would] be  placed
    on  the surest of foundations".  The harmony between Vedantic  theories
    and and western science was explained by the following diagram;








                   BRAHMAN          =          THE ABSOLUTE
                      |                              |
                      |                              |
              MAHAT OR ISHVARA      =      PRIMAL CREATIVE ENERGY
                      |                              |
                 +---------+                    +---------+
               PRANA and AKASHA     =        ENERGY and MATTER

      Tesla  understood the Sanskrit terminology and philosophy  and  found
    that  it  was a good means to describe the physical mechanisms  of  the
    universe  as seen through his eyes.  It would behoove those  who  would
    attempt to understand the science behind the inventions of Nikola Tesla
    to study Sanskrit and Vedic philosophy.

      Tesla  apparently failed to show the identity of energy  and  matter.
    If  he  had,  certainly  Swami Vivekananda  would  have  recorded  that
    occasion.    The  mathematical proof of the principle  did  come  until
    about  ten  years  later when Albert Einstein published  his  paper  on
    relativity.   What had been known in the East for the last 5,000  years
    was then known to the West.

      Brahman  is defined as the one self existent impersonal  spirit;  the
    Divine  Essence,  from  which all things emanate,  by  which  they  are
    sustained, and to which they return.  Notice that this is very  similar
    to  the  concept of the Great Spirit as understood by  Native  American
    cultures.    Ishvara  is  the  Supreme  Ruler;  the  highest   possible
    conception  of the Absolute, which is beyond all thought.  Mahat  means
    literally  the Great One, and is also interpreted as meaning  universal
    mind or cosmic intelligence.  Prana means energy (usually translated as
    life  force)  and Akasha means matter (usually  translated  as  ether).
    Dobson  points  out that the more common translations  for  Akasha  and
    Prana  are not quite correct, but that Tesla did understand their  true
    meanings.

      The meeting with Swami Vivekananda greatly stimulated Nikola  Tesla's
    interest in Eastern Science.  The Swami later remarked during a lecture
    in India, "I myself have been told by some of the best scientific minds
    of  the  day, how wonderfully rational the conclusions of  the  Vedanta
    are.   I know of one of them personally, who scarcely has time  to  eat
    his meal, or go out of his laboratory, but who would stand by the  hour
    to attend my lectures on the Vedanta; for, as he expresses it, they are
    so  scientific, they so exactly harmonize with the aspirations  of  the
    age  and with the conclusions to which modern science is coming at  the
    present time". 11


                              TESLA AND LORD KELVIN

      William S. Thompson was one of the prominent scientists and engineers
    of the 1800s.  He developed analogies between heat and electricity  and
    his work influenced the theories developed by James Clerk Maxwell,  one
    of  the  founders of electromagnetic theory.  Thompson  supervised  the
    successful  laying  of the Trans Atlantic Cable and for that  work  was
    knighted Lord Kelvin. Kelvin had endorsed Tesla's theories and proposed
    system for the wireless transmission of electrical power. 12  FootNOTE-
    Grotz PACE







      Tesla  continued to study Hindu and Vedic philosophy for a number  of
    years  as  indicated  by the following letter written to  him  by  Lord
    Kelvin.






                                                      15, Eaton Place
                                                      London, S.W.
                                                      May 20, 1902

         Dear Mr. Tesla,

              I  do not know how I can ever thank you enough  for  the
         most kind letter of May, 10, which I found in my cabin in the
         Lucania, with the beautiful books which you most kindly  sent
         me  along  with  it: -"The Buried  Temple",  "The  Gospel  of
         Bhudda",  Les  Grands  Inities",  the  exquisite  edition  of
         Rossetti's  "House  of  Life", and last but   not  least  the
         Century  Magazine  for  June,  1900  with  the  splendid  and
         marvelous photographs on pp. 176, 187, 190, 191, 192, full of
         electrical lessons.

            We had a most beautiful passage across the Atlantic,  much
         the finest I have ever had.  I was trying hard nearly all the
         way, but quite unsuccessfully, to find something definite  as
         to the functions of ether in respect to plain, old  fashioned
         magnetism.    A  propos  of  this,  I  have  instructed   the
         publishers,  Messrs. Macmillan, to send you at the Waldorf  a
         copy   of  my  book  (Collection  of  Separate   Papers)   on
         Electrostatics  and Magnetism.  I shall be glad if  you  will
         accept it from me as a very small mark of my gratitude to you
         for   your  kindness.   You  may  possibly   find   something
         interesting in the articles on Atmospheric Electricity  which
         it contains.


                Lady Kelvin joins me in kind regards, and I remain,

                                          Yours always truly,


                                                       Kelvin

         Thank you also warmly for the beautiful flowers  13

                             TESLA AND RUSSELL

      Walter  Russell was one of the most accomplished artists,  sculptors,
    writers  and  scientists of this century.  His periodic  chart  of  the
    elements accurately predicted the location and characteristics of  four
    elements years before they were discovered in laboratories.  These  are
    now  known  as Deuterium, Tritium, Neptunium, and  Plutonium.   Russell






    apparently  entered  into a heightened state of awareness  after  being
    struck  by  lightning.  He began several weeks of drawing  and  writing
    about the basic nature and make up of the physical universe.  Russells'
    family finally called the family doctor to determine if Russell  should
    be  committed  to an mental institution.  The doctor, upon  seeing  the
    results  of  Russells  weeks of work, said that he did  not  know  what
    Russell was doing, but that he definitely was not mad.

      Although  the  exact time and occasion of their meeting has  not  yet
    been  determined, Nikola Tesla and Walter Russell did meet and  discuss
    their respective cosmologies. 14 Tesla recognized the wisdom and  power
    of  Russells' teaching and urged Russell to lock up his knowledge in  a
    safe for 1,000 years until man was ready for it.  15

                        WHY FREE ENERGY HASN'T HAPPENED YET

             COMMENTS, POSSIBILITIES AND SOCIO ECONOMIC IMPLICATIONS

      Although  Tesla did not accept many of the tenants of relativity  and
    quantum  theory   and  never made the  connection  between  matter  and
    energy,  he did recognize the possibility of free and unlimited  energy
    as demonstrated by the following statement.


      Can Man control [the ] grandest, most awe inspiring of all  processes
    in nature?...If he could do this, he would have powers almost unlimited
    and  supernatural... He could cause planes to collide and  produce  his
    suns  and  stars, his heat and light.  He could originate  and  develop
    life in all its infinite forms....[Such powers] would place him  beside
    his creator, make him fulfill his ultimate destiny.  16

      We see that Tesla is asking a question, speculating, searching for an
    answer.   If Tesla had developed free energy sources or learned how  to
    manipulate  space time and gravity, during the time of his most  public
    and productive years, (up until about 1920), he would have had  answers
    to those questions.

      Tesla's most misunderstood invention is popularly known as the "Death
    Ray".   It was simply a particle beam weapon which he proposed in  1937
    and was fabricated under contracts with Alcoa Aluminum and the  English
    and   Italian  governments.   17  It  used   electrostatic   propulsion
    techniques  and  similar  devices  are being  developed  today  by  the
    Strategic  Defense  Initiative  Organization (SDIO)  and  the  US  Army
    Strategic Defense Command.  18

      So  we see that mankind has not yet harnessed the infinite  power  of
    the universe as envisioned by Nikola Tesla.  The question remains,  why
    not?

      Free  energy  devices, if they are feasible, are  not  about  smaller
    faster  microcircuits  or  a  bigger better mouse  traps.   This  is  a
    technology  which  may revolutionize the socio-economic status  quo  on
    planet  Earth.   At this moment the big pie is unevenly  divided.   One
    quarter  of the population on this rock, the third stone from the  sun,
    consumes  three  quarters of the yearly resource output.   As  one  can
    easily  deduce,  from a brief study of world affairs, there  are  about






    three  billion  people who have just about had it with  this  scenario.
    There  are wars starvation and strife in every nook and cranny  of  the
    planet.   So what do we do about it?

    Spaceship Earth Needs A Flight Plan

      Either we divide the pie more evenly or we make the pie larger.   The
    first option requires that our standard of living must fall so that the
    standard  of  living in the third world may rise.   The  second  option
    allows  us to maintain our standard of living while we help  raise  the
    standard  of living of under privileged nations.  This we must do.   It
    is our destiny. It is our responsibility.  It is our final test.

      Thirty thousand people starve to death every day on this planet, most
    of them are children.  Nations fight nations, war is part of our lives.
    What drives our economy in the western world, allows us to enjoy a high
    standard  of living, a life of leisure compared to our neighbors  south
    of  the  imaginary line called a border?  Many answers  both  economic,
    social,  political,  and spiritual can be given.  We do know  that  the
    standard  of  living that a nation enjoys is  directly  related  energy
    consumption.


      Energy drives the economies of nations and Tesla's life long goal was
    to  make  electric power equally available to all people any  where  on
    this  planet.   He  continued  to promote his  plan  for  the  wireless
    transmission of power in the yearly interviews he gave on his  birthday
    as late as 1940.  19  Electrical power allows on site processing of raw
    materials.   Electrical power can run pumps from water wells  in  areas
    affected  by  drought.   Electrical  power  delivered  to  the  poverty
    stricken  areas  of the world can make the pie larger, can  help  bring
    about the needed economic equality which is our birth right.

      Why  hasn't  power  been made equally available  to  all  people  and
    nations?  Why haven't the much touted free energy devices described  by
    Tom Bearden, John Bedini, Bruce DePalma, and others ever  materialized?
    Perhaps  because "easy things are seldom done for the same reason  that
    impossible  things  are  rarely  done: no one  will  pay  for  anything
    believed  to be easy or impossible".  20  Perhaps because when we  talk
    about  power  there is more there than one would  initially  visualize.
    What we are talking about is personal power, national power,  planetary
    power, karmic power and the power of love.

      The  sages tell us that in order to enjoy power we have to let go  of
    power,  to overcome ourselves.  As an example this author can  describe
    one  of  his  recent experiences.  After a  very  successful  symposium
    celebrating  the  100th year after Nikola Tesla arrived in  the  United
    States 21, a non profit corporation, 501(c)(3), was formed specifically
    to encourage and pursue research into the inventions and discoveries of
    Nikola  Tesla.  Two years later, after a second symposium,  several  of
    the founding members approached the board of directors with a  proposal
    to  validate  Tesla's  claim that wireless transmission  of  power  was
    possible.  Board members suggested that permission be obtained from the
    FCC,  an environmental impact statement be filed with the EPA,  and  we
    should  go  form  "our own non profit corporation".   22  It  was  also
    decided  that  since  there was no procedure  to  cover  research,  the






    organization could not be involved.

      Another goal of the organization had been to establish a museum to be
    named  the Nikola Tesla Museum of Science and Technology.  We  proposed
    that  since  60  -70  billion dollars are  given  away  to  non  profit
    organizations  annually,  we  had  as  good  a  chance  as  any   other
    organization  for  obtaining  funding, for a museum  or  research.   We
    reasoned that:

         "Since  only  16%  of  the museums in  this  country  are  science
    museums,  this  museum in honor of Nikola Tesla will help  educate  the
    public   in   technological  areas.   With  the   need   for   economic
    revitalization  of  industry  in Colorado, 1986is  the  time  to  begin
    supporting  the scientific education of our region.  With  the  current
    statistics  showing that the United States is falling behind the  world
    technologically,  the  effort to educate the public  is  becoming  more
    important,  and  the  surge  of  public  awareness  of  Nikola  Tesla's
    inventions  makes  him  an  appropriate  namesake  for  a  science  and
    technology museum."  23

      The board moved to table our proposal indefinitely.

      What  had  happened?   Of the 15 - 20 people  that  had  started  the
    organization  only four remained as part of the governing body.   Three
    of those members were opposed to research.  The collective mind of  the
    board of directors had become the antithesis of the momentum Tesla  had
    gained   in  his  lifetime.   Unlike  the  independent   inventor   and
    businessman, the board was now composed of members who were bureaucrats
    and  paper pushers for Fortune 500 companies.  Tesla was a  vegetarian,
    the board members all ate meat.  Tesla did not ask for permission to be
    inventive  and  strike  out on bold new adventures,  the  board  needed
    approval from higher sources.  The dichotomies were endless.

      Tesla's  visions  have  been delayed for 89  years.   The  squabbling
    started with Thomas Edison, J.P. Morgan and Nikola Tesla himself. 24 It
    continues  to this day.  Perhaps the reason for the delay  of  wireless
    power  transmission or free energy devices lies even deeper within  the
    human psyche.  Is it possible that we could compare the Tesla story  to
    a  biblical  story?   Bruce Gordan thinks  so.   In  Gordan's  analysis
    Tesla's   attempt  at  building  a  prototype  magnifying   transmitter
    parallels Genesis 11:1-9. 25

      "The message; human curiosity and technological derring-do makes  God
    nervous;  God demolishes project, confounds language".  Gordan  further
    outlines the the scenario as follows:

                             "ISOMORPHISM"

               BIBLE STORY                      TESLA TALE

    Human Efforts                             Tesla Projects
    Tower of Babel                            Wardenclyffe Tower
    God                                       Money (J.P. Morgan)

    Demolition and Confounding to maintain    Withdrawal of Morgan's
     Status Quo of God drunk on power above,  Financial Support and






     humanity groveling in ignorance below.   subsequent suppression of
                                              Tesla's work in orthodox
                                              science & engineering circles
                                              Perpetuation of mediocre
                                              technology for energy
                                              generation, storage,distribu-
                                              tion, to maintain favorable
                                              cash flow for existing system
                                              for energy management by
                                              forcing continued combustion
                                              of scarce fuels, keep
                                              consumers, paying, paying,
                                              paying......


      "When  everything is perfect, the right time shows up." 26   This  is
    equivalent  to  saying, "Absolute knowledge in the hands of  one  whose
    heart is not yet tender, would be a terrible weapon. 27 We might postulate that technological developments do not occur until
    the  planet  is ready.  The recent examination of the  theory  of  Gaia
    credits  the Earth with an intelligence.  "Thousands of years  ago,  by
    means  of seeing, sorcerers became aware that the Earth  was  sentinent
    and  that its awareness could affect the awareness of humans."   28  By
    implication  of  reciprocity the reverse could be true.  The  group  or
    collective  unconscious is still struggling with the result of  quantum
    and  relativity  theory.  We as a race were ready  for  nuclear  power,
    every  thing  was perfect and the right time showed up.  Soon  we  will
    have  put  the  technology  to good use or abandon  it  to  insure  our
    survival as a species.


                          SO WHAT DO YOU DO ABOUT IT

               FREE ENERGY: CREATING AN IDEA WHOSE TIME HAS COME



      Wireless transmission of power and free energy have not happened yet,
    perhaps  we aren't ready, perhaps the Earth isn't ready.  Pogo said  it
    best,  " we have met the enemy and it is us."  In the Jungian  view  of
    collective  unconscious, things happen when the time is right,  we  get
    what  we agree to.  We need a flight plan.  And that plan must  realize
    that,

                            WHEN THE POWER OF LOVE

                                   OVERCOMES

                               THE LOVE OF POWER

                                 THERE WILL BE

                                     PEACE

    [Source; Girls Lavatory, Boulder High School, Boulder, Colorado]
    Described as "Post Industrial, neo-technical, teen-age graffiti."








          "So  astounding  are the facts in this connection,  that  it
         would  seem  as though the Creator, himself had  electrically
         designed this planet...."

         Nikola  Tesla  describing  what  is  now  known  as  Schumann
         Resonance (7.8 Hz) in  "The Transmission of Electrical Energy
         Without Wires As A Means  Of  Furthering  World  Peace",
         Electrical World And  Engineer,  January  7,  1905, PP 21-24.


                                   FOOTNOTES

         1.  Ratzlaff,  John, Tesla Said, Tesla Book Company,  PO  Box
         1649, Greenville, TX  75401, 1984.

         2.  Yogananda,  Paramahansa, Autobiography of  a  Yogi,  Self
         Realization  Fellowship,, 3880 San Rafael Ave., Los  Angeles,
         CA 90065,  1985.

         3.  Cheney, Margaret, Man Out of Time, Prentice Hall, 1981.

         4.   Hunt,  Inez and Draper. Wanetta, W.,  Lightning  In  His
         Hand,  The  Life Story Of Nikola  Tesla,  Omni  Publications,
         Hawthorne, CA, 1981.

         5.   O'Neal,  John, J., Prodigal Genius, The Life  Of  Nikola
         Tesla, Ives Washington, Inc., 1944.

         6.   Anderson,  Leland,  personal  communication.  See   also
         Anderson,   L.I.,  and  Ratzlaff,  J.T.,  Dr.  Nikola   Tesla
         Bibliography,  Ragusan  Press, 936  Industrial  Avenue,  Palo
         Alto, CA 94303, 1979.

         7.   Nikhilananda,  Swami, Vivekananda, The Yogas  and  Other
         Works, Ramakrishna-Vivekananda Center, New York, 1973.

         8. Nikhilananda, Swami.

         9.  Dobson, John, personal communication.

         7.  Dobson, John, Advaita Vedanta and Modern Science, Vedanta
         Book Center, 5423 S. Hyde Park, Chicago, IL 60615, 1979.

         10. Nikhilananda, Swami.

         11.  Burke, Marie Louise, Swami Vivekananda in the West,  New
         Discoveries,  The World Teacher, Advaita  Ashrama,  Mayavati,
         India, 1985, p. 500

         12.  Grotz,  T., "Artificially Stimulated  Resonance  of  the
         Earth's Schumann Cavity Waveguide", Proceedings of the  Third
         International  New  Energy  Technology  Symposium/Exhibition,
         June 25th-28th, 1988, Hull, Quebec, Planetary Association for
         Clean Energy, 191 Promenade du Portage/600, Hull, Quebec  J8X
         2K6 Canada







         13. From the personal collection of L. Anderson.

         14. Russell, Lao. personal communication.

         15.  The  University of Science  and  Philosophy,  Swannanoa,
         Waynesboro, VA 22980, (703) 942-5161.

         16. First written by Tesla on May 13, 1907, for the "Actors
         Fair   Fund",  text  transcribed  from  an  A.L.S.   in   the
         collections  of  the Bakken Library of Electricity  in  Life.
         The  article later appeared in the "New York American",  July
         6, 1930, pg. 10.

         17.  Tesla,  Nikola, The New Art of  Projecting  Concentrated
         Non-Dispersive  Energy Through Natural Media, Proceedings  of
         the  Tesla  Centennial Symposium, Grotz, T. &  Rauscher,  E.,
         Editors, 1984.

         18.   Turchi,   P.J.,Conte,  D.,Seiler,   S.,   Electrostatic
         Acceleration  of  Microprojectiles  to  Ultrahypervelocities,
         "Proceedings  of the Seventh Pulsed Power  Conference",  June
         12th-14th,  Monterey,  California, Jointly Sponsored  by  the
         DOD, DOE, and the IEEE Electron Devices Society.

         19.  "Death  Ray for Planes", New York Times,  September  20,
         1940.

         20.  Pawlicki, T.B., Exploring Hyperspace, 848  Fort  Street,
         Victoria, B.C., Canada, electronic book on floppy disk, 1988,
         (Log  onto the TESLA BBS at (719) 486-2775 for copy of  ASCII
         text files)

         21. Broad, William J., "Tesla a Bizarre Genius, Regains  Aura
         of Greatness", New York Times, Aug. 28th, 1984

         22. El-Kareh, E., Elswick, S., memo, 1987.

         23.  Grotz,  T., & Sheppard, J., The Nikola Tesla  Museum  of
         Science and Technology submitted to the Board of Directors of
         the   International  Tesla  Society,  December  12th,   1986.
         [Available as an ASCII text file on the TESLA BBS (719)  486-
         2775]

         24.  Cheney, Margaret, Tesla, Man Out of Time, Prentice  Hall
         Inc, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1981.

         25. Gordan, Bruce, private communication, 1988.

         26. Arguelles, Jose & Lloydine, personal communication.

         27.  Hercules, Michael, The Circle of Love, published by  the
         author.

         28. Castenada, Carlos, The Power of Silence, Further  Lessons
         of don Jaun, Simon and Schuster, New York, 1987, Pg. 120.







                        FURTHER INFORMATION ABOUT TESLA

    TESLA BBS:  This is a full featured computer Bulletin Board Service for
    access to information about current research and the life and times  of
    Nikola  Tesla.  A subsection of the Colorado Mountain College  BBS,  it
    may  be  contacted using a computer and 300/1200/2400  baud  modems  at
    (719) 486-2775.

    The Tesla Memorial Society        The Tesla Coil Builders Association
    % Nicholas Kosanovich             % Harry Goldman
    453 Martin Road                   RD #6 Box 181
    Lackawanna, NY 14218              Glenns Falls, NY 12801
    (716) 822-0281                    (518) 792-1003

    The Tesla Book Company            High Voltage Press
    PO Box 1649                       PO Box 532
    Greenville, TX 75401              Claremont, CA 91711
    (214) 454-6819






      Mr.  Toby  Grotz, President, Wireless Engineering, is  an  electrical
    engineer  and  has  16 years experience in  the  field  of  geophysics,
    aerospace  and industrial research and design.  While working  for  the
    Geophysical   Services  Division  of  Texas  Instruments  and  at   the
    University  of Texas at Dallas, Mr. Grotz was introduced to and  worked
    with  the geophysical concepts which are of importance to the  wireless
    transmission  of power.  As a Senior Engineer at Martin  Marietta,  Mr.
    Grotz  designed and supervised the construction of  industrial  process
    control systems and designed and built devices and equipment for use in
    research  and development and for testing space flight  hardware.   Mr.
    Grotz  also  worked  for the public utility  industry  installing  mini
    computer  based pollutant measuring data acquisition systems in  fossil
    fuel  power plants and as a results engineer in a nuclear power  plant.
    Mr. Grotz organized and chaired the 1984 Tesla Centennial Symposium and
    the  1986  International  Tesla  Symposium and  was  president  of  the
    International  Tesla Society, a not for profit corporation formed as  a
    result the first symposium.  As Project Manager for Project Tesla,  Mr.
    Grotz  aided  in  the design and construction of a  recreation  of  the
    equipment  Nikola  Tesla  used  for  wireless  transmission  of   power
    experiments  in  1899  in Colorado Springs.   Mr.  Grotz  received  his
    B.S.E.E. from the University of Connecticut in 1973.
