				General Cracking Tutorial by _CbD_

	Well as many ppl have asked me for help i am compiling all these question and tring to answer them 
	here, so if you have question that i dont explain please feel free to ask me if you see me and i will 
	do my best to help you....


Q) Where do i start when Cracking a VB program ?

A) Well first i strongly recommend getting a tut on VB programs, I ahve wrote 2 on the subject and razzia(Real Kewl guy)  has wrote a few. 

	but if you just cant seem to do this i will tell you the basics.
	First you will not be abel to use the BP's (Break Points) that you use with non VB apps as they wont
	werk  ie.( Getdlgitemtexta or Getwindowtexta) you will have to use Hmemcpy. Dont set the BP until
	you have entered the info that you need such as name and serail # or you will break on every single 
	letter or number, Also when you use this you will land in the Kerenel and will have to press F11
	to get back to the section of the VB.dll that called Hmemcpy. then do some single stepping and
	alot of register checking to see what you program is doing with the data you used. Also use
	W32Dasm on your vb program to see what calls it makes to the vb.dll such as RegQueryValue(for 
	checking a registry value) and so on.   and oh yeah  Good Luck........


Q) How do i use SoftIce ?
	
A) Read the Docs or Wiat till our SI tut's are out  :-)


Q) SoftIce messed my Video Up what can i do ?

A) try setting the proper Video Card in the Setup of SI. if your card is not listed get the Driver Updates.

Q) How do i use the Loader in Si

A) I dont use it  anyone want to answer this question... :-(

Q) The prrgram i am tring to crack has expired and wont let me enter a number anymore what do i do

A) Well look in the  system registry under Currnet_User & Local_Machine and see if there are any entries for
	for  the program you are useing  and delete them then reinstall (Make sure you delete all files that were
	installed the first time... also use a registry logger such as cleansweep  to monitor the files that your 
	program puts on the drive... 

Q) I jsut cracked this program, or i thought i did It said thatnk you for registering and was the registered version 
	while i was using it, but when i restart it it still says unregistered, How can i fix it....

A) Well what you did was most likely change a jmp here and there and make the program take you invalid code
	as a real one  but the program wrote your code to the registry or a ini file then when you restarted it , the 
	program read the number or key and it was a invalid one, so you must find where the program looks
	for a registry entry (RegQueryValueEx(A) or a GetPrivateProfile(A)) and force the program to validate any 
	key that it sees. this can be a very difficult process so be prepared for a lot of hell on this one.
	but the best idea is to use W32dasm to disasemble the taget then look in the import functions
	to find the fuctions above, then trace each one of them ( will be many) then after you trace the code 
	and find the right one it will most likely be a matter of changing a jnz to a jz or somthing siple like that
	if you still cant do it seek help from a wise cracker (NOT a SMART ASS  though) Wise as in smart :-)

Q) What is a good staring place for Fuction Disabled Protections?

A) Well MessageBox(A) or Dialogbox(A) is a very good starting place as these are most offetn used
	to call the little box you see when you try to use a fuction that is disable ie. (Nope cant do it it is a demo 
	version) or in W32dasm look in the String Reference's for something like 
	Fuction Not Availible in Demo  or Command not Availible or even Can Not Save in Shareware Demo
	these are good pointers to the calls that you want to bypass. for more info on this get
	my tutorial on WinScan (Fuction Disabled Protections) ..

Q) What is the best programs to crack? (easy)

A) Well they are generaly programs by (a) single proramers or (b) very large corperations or even (c) Specailty
	software reasons below

	(a) He cant afford to buy the registration routines that would make it hard for us to crack 
	      so he uses hardcoded Numbers in the protection
	(b) They have so damn many programmers and most are so stupid they use simple 
	       protections thinking that hmm nobaody will crack our software  we are MicroSoft ;-)
	(c) They use Fuction Disabled protections cause they are lazy and dont want to write 
	       2 differnt versions of thier super specail program

Q)How long does it take to crack a program ?

A) hmm 10 min, 1hour, 1day, 1 week, 1month, hmm forever .... Depends on the protection

Q) What is Softice?

A) A debugging system 

Q) What is debugging

A) Go bother someone else i dont have time for you :-|

Q) What is W32dasm?

A) a windows disasembler that will give you the assembly language code of a program.

Q) Waht is Assemly Language?

A) Goto #asm on any IRC network and ask them ;-) ( it is the machine level code that your computer uses
	to carry out instructions from a program.
Q) I want to learn Cracking How can i do it

A) well it is not like you can just learn to crack you have to read   read   read read and yet read more then you
	 will need to learn assembly and then get the right tools for the job (Softice, W32dasm, a Hexeditor and 
	a few other advanced tools) it is like sex anyone can do it but only a few of us will ever master it
	and satisfy all parties envoled :-)

Q) Who is +ORC ?

A) well lets see a fairly good cracker that has ben doing it for awhile(so he says) and has lots of info on the subject, He does however have a very piss poor attitude if you ask me and most think he is a god  but i think he 
is like any other cracker who has wrote a few good tut's and give a fwe good lessons.. DONT IDEALIZE HIM
he is only human......


Well that will do it for now  hope it helps and if it dont then oh well i tried so till next time  Happy Cracking 

					_CbD_ MexElite'97  ME/C4N'97
			#Cracking4Newbies on EFNET  Come see us...........	

		

