
# Prince of Persia II interactive TSR and LOADER trainer example documentation.

(This doc describes the interactive trainer keys - for use with the training
tutorial package)


Quick NFO :
***********


Run the file PP2T-TSR.COM to install the TSR trainer.

In-game interactive trainer keys :

F1      -       Activates the No-Touch System (tm) - nothing even touches you.
F2      -       Deactivates the No-Touch System.
F3      -       Gives you 25 energy bottles.
F4      -       Kills any enemy currently on the screen.
F5      -       Adds 255 minutes to your current time at that level.
F6      -       Jump to the next level.
F9      -       Moves your character all the way to the left of the screen.
F10     -       Moves your character all the way to the right of the screen.


NOTES :
*******


When you select the F1 option, the guards, rats, knives, spikes etc can't do
shit all to you.  You will pass right through slicing blades, spears etc!
You can fall from clifs, buildings etc without getting even hurt.  You can
walk right through steel-caged doors - even if they are closed!

(Know now why I call it the No-Touch System?!)  Ok, well as always, there are
a few things that go along with a goodie like this : If you fall down into lava
or into some spikes etc, you'll still live! - can't die.  So whenever you get
stuck like that, turn it off with F2, then keep on pressing F4 the whole time
untill the game restarts on that level.  This time make sure it's not on when
performing the same stunt that got you there in the 1st place.

This F1 option also ruins gameplay by making it too easy for you.  Players
using it won't bother figuring out how to get by let's say some falling blades,
they'll just walk right through them! - use it as you like.

F2 De-activates the No-Touch System.

F3 Gives you 25 energy bottles - a nice and honest way to cheat in the game!
   (The bottles are updated everytime you get hit on the screen)  Use this
   option a lot since there are no side-effects like with the F1 option.

F4 Kills the current enemy on the screen! - nice little option for those of ya
   who don't want to waste time killing and killing the guards that keep
   comming and comming at the higher levels.  Each time you press it, it kills
   the current enemy you see.  You might have to press it a few times to clear
   the whole screen of enemies.  (Don't press it too many times or you'll end
   up killing yourself)

F5 Adds 255 minutes to your current time at that level.  Some people didn't
   know that this game is also timed! - try pressing the spacebar next time
   boiz - before you release a trainer that doesn't have this option included!
   (The game starts timing you once you get to higher levels)

F6 Jumps to the next level instantly.  Nice option ey?  After all, if this
   was some "cheat" then we wouldn't even worry about including this option,
   but hey, this is a TRAINER! - (don't abuse this option and skip right to
   the end of the game lamers!)

F9 Puts your character all the way to the left of the screen.  Now why this
   option?  Well ever had problems jumping over that nasty building/cliff?
   Always seemed to fall down?  Well if there's a cliff, etc, simple press
   F9 and you'll be on the left side of the screen right over the cliff! -
   or F10 and you'll be on the right side of the screen.  There are lots of
   reasons to use this option.

   Sometimes when you use that option, and there's nothing on the left/right
   of the screen just rocks, buildings or something, if you press it and
   suddenly your character dissapears into the building, simply press the
   opposite-side key and you'll be back where you started from.

F10 Does all the above but to the right.


Have PHUN!


                                                     Dr. Detergent / UNT'93


