STAR TREK: THE NEXT GENERATION - Annotated Episode List
compiled by Don Sakers & Thomas Atkinson
[72517,526]

FIRST SEASON:

 1. Encounter at Farpoint: On the ship's maiden voyage, the
    Enterprise crew meets the enigmatic "Q" and solves the
    mystery of Farpoint Station. Data demonstrates his humanity.
    Features a powerfully sentimental scene on the holodeck. Data
    falls over.

 2. The Naked Now: The crew is stricken by a strange malady, Data
    falls over, and it's up to Wesley and Data to save the ship.
    Data demonstrates his humanity with Tasha.

 3. Code of Honor: Tasha is kidnapped and to win her freedom she
    must fight -- to the death.

 4. Last Outpost: Ferengi and Federation meet in the ruins of an
    ancient -- but not quite dead -- Empire.

 5. Where No One Has Gone Before: An experimental warp drive
    catapults the Enterprise far outside the Galaxy, and it's up
    to Wesley to save the ship.

 6. Lonely Among Us: While the Enterprise is transporting warring
    alien delegates to a peace conference, an energy-being
    invades the ship and kidnaps Captain Picard.

 7. Justice: On the planet California, Wesley breaks a local law
    and it's up to Picard to save him. Meanwhile, Data falls
    over.

 8. The Battle: Ferengi trickery strands Captain Picard in a
    simulation of a past battle -- with the Enterprise as the
    target.

 9. Hide and Q: The enigmatic Q returns to tempt Riker with
    godlike powers, and it's up to Picard to save him.

10. Haven: The arrival of a plague ship interrupts plans for
    Counsellor Troi's wedding. Guest-stars Majel Barrett and
    features a powerfully sentimental scene on the holodeck.

11. Big Goodbye: The holodeck malfunctions, stranding Picard,
    Data, Dr. Crusher and Ensign Liebowitz in 1940s San
    Francisco.

12. Datalore: Data's origin is revealed as his evil twin attempts
    to take over the Enterprise, he falls over, and it's up to
    Wesley to save the ship.

13. Angel One: The Enterprise crew finds survivors of an earlier
    Federation mission as outlaws on the matriarchal planet Angel
    One, and it's up to Picard to save them.

14. 11001001: During a routine computer refit, the Binars capture
    the Enterprise because their planet is dying and it's up to
    them to save it. Meanwhile, the holodeck malfunctions,
    stranding Picard and Riker in 1950s New Orleans.

15. Too Short a Season: Hostages are being held on the planet
    Mordan IV, and it's up to Admiral Mark Jameson to save them.
    Unfortunately, Jameson has been nipping from the Fountain of
    Youth along the way.

16. When the Bough Breaks: When the people of the planet Aldea
    kidnap the Enterprise's children, it's up to Picard to save
    them.

17. Home Soil: A terraforming project is having trouble as a
    microscopic lifeform declares war on humanity. It's up to
    Picard to save everyone.

18. Coming of Age: An officious Starfleet bureaucrat investigates
    the Enterprise while it's up to Wesley to fail the Starfleet
    entrance exam.

19. Heart of Glory: A rare glimpse of Klingon culture as three
    Klingon warriors try to persuade Worf to deny his Human
    upbringing. This episode is a real "scream."

20. The Arsenal of Freedom: Geordi takes over command of the
    Enterprise when the other officers are menaced by the
    hologram of a used-weapons salesman. Crusher falls down a
    hole and it's up to Picard to save her.

21. Symbiosis: Captain Kirk's son fights against Khan's son while
    Tasha tells Wesley to "just say no."

22. Skin of Evil: On the planet Exxon Valdez, Tasha is killed by
    a giant oil slick and it's up to Picard to save Troi's life.
    Features a powerfully sentimental scene on the holodeck.

23. We'll Always Have Paris: Picard's ex-girlfriend's husband's
    time experiments go awry, and it's up to Data to save
    everyone -- if he can avoid falling over. Features a
    powerfully sentimental scene on the holodeck.

24. Conspiracy: Invaders from Mars possess an officious Starfleet
    bureaucrat in their plan to take over the Federation, and
    it's up to the crew of the Enterprise to save everyone.

25. The Neutral Zone: The Enterprise discovers three survivors
    from the 20th Century in cryogenic suspension, and it's up to
    Crusher to save them. Meanwhile, the Romulans bare their
    teeth and Picard plays dentist.


SECOND SEASON:

26. The Child: Deanna Troi is raped by an alien force, and her
    child becomes one of those unexplained space mysteries that
    we'll never understand.

27. Where Silence Has Lease: The Enterprise falls into a hole in
    space, and it's up to Picard to save the ship by outwitting
    one of those unexplained space mysteries that we'll never
    understand.

28. Elementary, Dear Data: The holodeck malfunctions, stranding
    Data, Geordi, Picard and Doctor Pulaski in Sherlock Holmes'
    London.

29. The Outrageous Okana: A rougish space wanderer involves the
    Enterprise crew in a paternity suit from his ex-girlfriend.
    Meanwhile, Data demonstrates his humanity.

30. Loud As A Whisper: A deaf war mediator manages to screw up
    negotiations on the planet Soleis, and it's up the the
    Counselor to save him.

31. The Schizoid Man: A dying scientist transplants his own
    personality into Data, who falls over, and it's up to Picard
    to save Data.

32. Unnatural Selection: When Doctor Pulaski catches an old-age
    disease, Data demonstrates his humanity to her. Fortunately,
    the Transporter's deus ex machina circuit saves her.

33. A Matter of Honor: A rare glimpse of Klingon culture as Riker
    temporarily joins the crew of the Klingon vessel Pagh.

34. The Measure of a Man: When an officious Starfleet bureaucrat
    wants to dismantle Data, it's up to Picard to save him.
    However, Data demonstrates his humanity and all is well.

35. The Dauphin: Wesley falls in love with a visiting princess,
    who is revealed as a shapeshifter. Her guardian, meanwhile,
    is revealed as one of those unexplained space mysteries that
    we'll never understand.

36. Contagion: A computer virus threatens the Enterprise, the
    Romulans bare their teeth, and Data falls over. Picard, Data
    and Worf are trapped in the ruins of an ancient -- but not
    quite dead -- Empire, and it's up to Picard to save them.

37. The Royale: Riker, Data and Worf are marooned in a
    20th-century hotel which turns out to be one of those
    unexplained space mysteries that we'll never understand.

38. Time Squared: Picard meets himself as the Enterprise becomes
    victim of one of those unexplained space mysteries that we'll
    never understand.

39. The Icarus Factor: Starfleet attempts to get rid of Riker by
    assigning him to a decrepit old starship, but Riker's father
    (Pulaski's ex-boyfriend) shows up and talks him out of
    accepting the assignment. Meanwhile, a powerfully sentimental
    scene on the holodeck gives us a rare glimpse of Klingon
    culture, as Worf denies his human upbringing.

40. Pen Pals: The planet Drema Four is breaking apart, and it's
    up to Wesley to save it. Meanwhile, Data demonstrates his
    humanity with a little orphan girl.

41. Q Who: The enigmatic Q throws the Enterprise into unexplored
    space where the ship is menaced by the Borg and it's up to Q
    to save it. Meanwhile, the bartender Guinan is revealed as
    one of those unexplained space mysteries that we'll never
    understand.

42. Samaritan Snare: While Wesley and Picard ride a shuttlecraft
    to Starbase Scylla 515, Geordi is kidnapped by a shipful of
    Trekkies. It's up to Riker to save him. Picard, meanwhile,
    undergoes heart surgery...and it's up to Pulaski to save him.

43. Up the Long Ladder: Riker falls in love with an Irish woman,
    then he and Pulaski must destroy their own clones.

44. Manhunt: Lwaxana Troi searches for a mate and Picard hides in
    the holodeck. Meanwhile, squidlike aliens are prepared to
    destroy the Enterprise, and it's up to Majel to save it.

45. The Emissary: A rare glimpse of Klingon culture as Worf's
    ex-girlfriend tries to get him to deny his human upbringing.
    Features a powerfully sentimental scene on the holodeck.

46. Peak Performance: An officious Starfleet bureaucrat tries to
    get rid of Riker by assigning him to a decrepit old starship.
    But when the Ferengi show up, Riker realizes it isn't all fun
    and games, and it's up to Wesley to save the ship. Meanwhile,
    Data demonstrates his humanity.

47. Shades of Gray: "What do you mean, 22 episodes in the second
    season?! We've only shot 21, and our budget is almost
    gone...."

THIRD SEASON:

48: Evolution: Wesley endangers the ship as a microscopic
    lifeform declares war on humanity. Suddenly, it's up to
    Wesley and Picard to save everyone.

49: The Ensigns of Command: The planet Tau Cygna Five is
    endangered by the Sheliak, and it's up to Data to fall over,
    save the planet and demonstrate his humanity. Meanwhile, it
    takes Picard three days to realize that a loophole in the
    Sheliak treaty can save everybody.


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Rat Head                                 Ratsnatcher          510-524-3649
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   415-567-7043
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
       arcane knowledge, political extremism, diversive sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
