 

    STAR TREK: THE NEXT GENERATION
    First Season Encyclopedia
    Third Edition

    Edited by Jim S. Lyon with assistance from Lee Whiteside, Joe Siegler,
    Christina Mavroudis, Berkeley Hunt, Alan Hale, David Johnson, David
    Keller, Pola Staples and Carolyn Kinkead.

    File Copyright (C) July 1989 by Enterprise America

----STARDATE CHRONOLOGY--------------------------------------------------------
Following each entry is a two-number code; the first is the episode number as
  AIRED, the second the Paramount Code number in FILMING order.)

41153.7   :   Encounter at Farpoint           (1-2,101-102)
41209.2   :   The Naked Now                   (3,103)
41235.25  :   Code of Honor                   (4,104)
41242.4   :   Datalore                        (13,114)
41249.3   :   Lonely Among Us                 (7,107)
41255.6   :   Justice                         (8,109)
41263.1   :   Where No One Has Gone Before    (6,106)
41294.5   :   Haven                           (11,105)
41309.5   :   Too Short a Season              (16,112)
41365.9   :   11001001                        (15,116)
41386.4   :   The Last Outpost                (5,108)
41416.2   :   Coming of Age                   (19,119)
41463.9   :   Home Soil                       (18,117)
41503.7   :   Heart of Glory                  (20,120)
41509.1   :   When the Bough Breaks           (17,118)
41590.5   :   Hide and Q                      (10,111)
41601.3   :   Skin of Evil                    (23,122)
41636.9   :   Angel One                       (14,115)
41697.9   :   We'll Always Have Paris         (24,124)
41723.9   :   The Battle                      (9,110)
41775.5   :   Conspiracy                      (25,125)
41798.2   :   The Arsenal of Freedom          (21,121)
41986.0   :   The Neutral Zone                (26,126)
41997.7   :   The Big Goodbye                 (12,113)
None      :   Symbiosis                       (22,123)

The date given from Old Calendar reckoning in "The Neutral Zone" as the current
  date is 2364 A.D.


----LOCATION GUIDE-------------------------------------------------------------

Aldea : A planet in the Epsilon Mynos system whose people are dying due to 
  ozone depletion and radiation poisoning because of a cloaking screen run by
  the computerized Custodian.  Beverly found a cure for the radiation sickness,
  which made the Aldeans sterile.  (When the Bough Breaks)
Aldron Four : Enterprise's destination after leaving Relva.  (Coming of Age)
Alcyone : The inhabitants of this planet destroyed the last of the plague-car-
  rying Tarellian refugees.  (Haven)
Altair III : Riker didn't allow his former captain, DeSoto, to beam down to 
  this planet from USS Hood when Riker was Hood's exec. (Encounter at Farpoint)
Angel One : A matriarchal society where men are considered subordinate.  Seve-
  ral survivors from the SS Odin came here and were considered fugitives until
  the Enterprise convinced Elected One Beata to let them into exile on an iso-
  lated island. (Angel One)
Antica : A planet in the Beta Renner system at war with its neighbor world, 
  Selay.  Its inhabitants are canine-like Anticans.  (Lonely Among Us)
Arloph Nine : The USS Charleston is delayed here, prompting Enterprise to bring
  the three Earthlings home.  (The Neutral Zone)
Armus IX : Where Riker wore feathers to impress the leaders.  (Angel One)
Asphia : The planet where the SS Odin crashed; several of its crew, including
  Captain Ramsey, escaped the destruction.  (Angel One)
Aveda Three : A colony world stricken with disaster that Beverly lived on as a
  child, as did her grandmother who was responsible for saving lives with her
  knowledge of native plants.  (The Arsenal of Freedom)
Beltane IX : After commandeering a shuttle, Jake Kurland tells Picard he is
  going to escape to here.  (Coming of Age)
Beta Cassius System : Where the planet Haven is located.  (Haven)
Beta Magellan System : Where the planet Bynaus is located.  (11001001)
Beta Renner System : Where the planets Antica and Selay are.  (Lonely Among Us)
Betazed : Home of an advanced race of humanoids with telepathic and empathic
  abilities.  A Federation Member World.  Chief Counselor Deanna Troi is from
  here, as well as Lwaxana Troi, her mother (her father was a Starfleet offi-
  cer, a human.)  (Haven)
Brekka : Fourth planet of the Delos system, its only product is felicium, ori-
  ginally a cure for a plague on neighboring Ornara but now only a narcotic
  for those people.  (Symbiosis)
Bynaus : Home planet of the Bynars, a race who live and work in pairs and exist
  in conjunction with a massive organic computer.  In the Beta Magellan sys-
  tem.  (11001001)
Cerberus II : Planet where the rejuvenation process used by Admiral Jameson was
  developed.  Long considered a myth, the process involves use of herbs and
  drugs administered slowly; Jameson used them quickly.  (Too Short a Season)
Coltair Four : A planet that feels the time distort.  (We'll Always Have Paris)
Delos System : Home of planets Brekka and Ornara; its sun underwent a period of
  magnetic field instability. (Symbiosis)
Delphi Ardu : The last remaining outpost world of the Tkon Empire, a political
  body that existed thousands of years ago, now extinct.  (Last Outpost)
Delta-05 : Science station on the Neutral Zone border that was destroyed by
  unknown causes.  (The Neutral Zone)
Deneb IV : Also known as Farpoint, this is the site of Farpoint Station, con-
  structed by the planet's inhabitants, the Bandi.  In actuality, the Bandi,
  led by their leader, Groppler Zorn, captured an alien entity and forced
  it to create Farpoint to appease the Federation.  (Encounter at Farpoint)
Dytalix-B : Fifth of six planets in the Mira system mined by Dytalix Mining 
  Corporation.  It is here that Picard meets investigators in the Starfleet
  conspiracy.  (Conspiracy)
Earth : Mother planet of humanity; most of the Enterprise's crew is from there.
  A virtual paradise in the 24th century.  The Enterprise visits here during
  the Parasite encounter.  (seen in Conspiracy; seen via holodeck in The Big
  Goodbye, 11001001, We'll Always Have Paris)
Epsilon Mynos System : Where Aldea is located.  (When the Bough Breaks)
Gamma Tauri IV : The Ferengi stole a K-9 Converter from here.  (Last Outpost)
Gault : Farming planet where Worf was raised; he was found at Khitomar Outpost
  and raised here by a human father with a step-brother.  (Heart of Glory)
Hali : Supposedly a hellish environment filled with enemies to fight; Worf
  suggests to K'Nera to exile Korris' party to here.  (Heart of Glory)
Haven : A paradise planet in the Beta Cassius system, governed by First Elec-
  torine Valeda Innis.  A Tarellian plague ship was once approaching this pla-
  net.  (Haven)
Idini Star Cluster : The Enterprise passes through here on the way to Mordan
  IV.  Here Picard offers Jameson the conn.  (Too Short a Season)
Illicon : A planet that feels the time distort.  (We'll Always Have Paris)
Isis III : The destination of the Enterprise after it departs Mordan IV.  (Too
  Short a Season)
Jarada : A new Federation ally.  Inhabited by insectoid people who greatly
  respect protocol.  (The Big Goodbye)
Kabatris : Here Riker wore fancy robes to impress its leaders.  (Angel One)
Kazis Binary System : Where the Earth capsule is discovered. (The Neutral Zone)
Khitomer : A Klingon Outpost where Worf was born.  A Romulan attack devastated
  the colony and Worf was found in the rubble by a human Starfleet officer,
  and taken to Gault.  (Heart of Glory)
Kling : The Klingon Home Planet.  Also known as Klinzhai.  (Heart of Glory)
Ligon II : A highly chivalristic planet with a strict code of honor inhabited
  by black-skinned humanoids who possess the antidote to Anchilles Fever,
  a disease that has stricken Styris Four.  (Code of Honor)
Lorenze Cluster : A star group which includes the planet Minos. (The Arsenal of
  Freedom)
Mars : Fourth planet of the Sol System; here at the Utopia Planecia shipyards
  the USS Enterprise was constructed.
Maxia Zeta : System where the USS Stargazer fought a Ferengi ship, the first
  such contact (although it wasn't realized at the time).  The Stargazer
  was lost here.  (The Battle)
Micromius : Planet where some medical disaster happened.  Dr. Crusher developed
  something to prevent the same accident and presumably presented it to Dr.
  Terence Epstein.  (11001001)
Minos : A planet in the Lorenze Cluster, once the home of a humanoid species 
  who sold arms to both sides in the Ersalrope Wars.  They were destroyed by
  one of their own weapons.  (The Arsenal of Freedom)
Mira System : Location of the planet Dytalix-B.  Six planets.  (Conspiracy)
Mordan IV : A Federation world governed by Karnas.  A diplomatic party was cap-
  tured by Karnas there to lure Admiral Jameson into a return.  (Too...Season)
M-Zed Five : An outpost the Batris was supposedly on course for before it was
  damaged by Ferengi; actually, this was a lie.  (Heart of Glory)
M-33 Galaxy: Located beyond Triangulum, it is 2.7 million light years away from
  the Milky Way Galaxy, where the Federation is located.  The Enterprise was
  propelled here accidentally by the Traveler. (Where No One Has Gone Before)
Neutral Zone: That area of space between the Federation and the Romulan Empire.
  The Federation has nine outposts here and several Starbases, all of which
  were destroyed by unknown causes.  The Romulan outposts were similarly des-
  troyed.  (Mentioned in Angel One, Heart of Glory; seen in The Neutral Zone)
Omicron Pascal : The Enterprise was detained here before its rendezvous at
  Starbase 74. (11001001)
Omicron Theta Four : The planet where malcontents under Dr. Noonian Sung set-
  tled.  Data and Lore were created by the scientist here.  (Datalore)
Opraline : Enterprise's destination upon leaving Ornara.  (Symbiosis)
Ornara : Third planet of the Delos system, its population relies on felicium,
  a narcotic, to survive.  The Ornarans supply the planet Brekka with every-
  thing it needs to survive in return for felicium.  In essence, Ornara is
  a complete society of drug addicts. (Symbiosis)
Pacifica : Ocean world that the Enterprise is en route to before the trip to
  Dytalix and then to Earth.  (Conspiracy)
Parliament : A Federation world reminiscent of Babel, the Enterprise is en 
  route there when delayed by the cloud creature.  (Lonely Among Us)
Pegos Minor System : The Enterprise diverts through here, because Manheim's
  distress signal is relayed here.  (We'll Always Have Paris)
Pelius Five : The Enterprise's destination after its maintenance is completed
  at Starbase 74. (11001001)
Persephone V : The Enterprise picks up Admiral Mark Jameson here for transport
  to Mordan IV.  (Too Short a Season)
Pleiades Cluster: In the constellation Taurus, a group of seven stars.  The En-
  terprise was mapping there before diverting to Velara Three.  (Home Soil)
Quadra Sigma Three : A mining world where a terrible accident occurred.  The
  Enterprise was called but delayed by Q.  (Hide and Q)
Quazulu Eight : Where Wesley and classmates picked up the virus that infected
  the Enterprise over Angel One.  (Angel One)
Relva Seven: Site of a Federation Starbase, the Enterprise came here for Wes-
  ley's entrance exam and Admiral Quinn's interrogation.  (Coming of Age)
Rubicam Three : An idyllic planet, home of the primitive Edo and their mys-
  terious "lord".  (Justice)
Sarona Eight : The Enterprise is on course here for shore leave when it diverts
  to Vandor Four.  (We'll Always Have Paris)
Sector 30 : Located at the Neutral Zone, two outposts in this sector were des-
  troyed.  (The Neutral Zone)
Sector 31 : Located near the Neutral Zone, contact with two starbases here had
  not been reestablished since Stardate 41903.2.  (The Neutral Zone)
Sector 63 : USS Horatio is destroyed here.  (Conspiracy)
Selay : Planet inhabited by reptilians who feed on living prey, at war with 
  neighboring Antica.  In the Beta Renner system.  (Lonely Among Us)
Starbase Armus Nine : Where Picard was to take the Enterprise for upgrade af-
  ter the trip to Omicron Theta.  (Datalore)
Starbase G6 : The Enterprise dropped Deanna Troi off here for a shuttle trip
  home.  (Hide and Q)
Starbase Zendi Nine : Starbase in the Zendi Sabu area, the Stargazer is to be
  taken here.  (The Battle)
Starbase 12 : Site of a two-day unexplained evacuation that was under investi-
  gation by Walker Keel.  (Conspiracy)
Starbase 14 : A subspace transmission from here informs the Enterprise of the
  severity of the plague on Styris Four.  (Code of Honor)
Starbase 39 Sierre : Picard resigns to take the humans discovered on the Earth
  satellite here.  (The Neutral Zone)
Starbase 45 : Where Admiral Jameson's last medical exam was supposedly conduc-
  ted.  (Too Short a Season)
Starbase 74 : -see- Tarsus III (11001001)
Starbase 84 : The Enterprise departs for here after meeting the Klingon ship
  Kartag.  (Heart of Glory)
Starbase 103 : Geordi ordered Logan to set a course here with the saucer sec-
  tion during the Minos incident.  (The Arsenal of Freedom)
Starbase 718 : Picard attends a meeting about the destruction of Neutral Zone 
  outposts here.  (The Neutral Zone)
Strnad : Location of a new Federation colony, near Rubicam.  (Justice)
Styris IV : A world infected with the deadly Anchilles Fever.  (Code of Honor)
Tarella: A biological war here created a virus that killed all but a few sur-
  vivors, who made their way to the planet Haven.  (Haven)
Tarsus III : Location of Starbase 74, a massive Spacedock-class construction
  in orbit.  The Enterprise came here for maintenance and was stolen by the
  Bynars.  Quinteros, a designer of the ship, is Base Commander.  (11001001)
Tau Alpha-C : Where Riker thought the Traveler was from.  (Where No One...)
Tau Ceti Three : Picard first met Walker Keel in a bar here.  (Conspiracy)
Telaria : The Batris was from here.  (Heart of Glory)
Tarod 9 : Outpost on Romulan border destroyed.  (The Neutral Zone)
Torona IV: Planet in the Jarada sector that Picard contacts to reestablish
  diplomatic relations.  (The Big Goodbye)
Vagra Two : Planet in the Zed Lapis sector, it is here the Armus existed, and
  where it killed Tasha Yar.  (Skin of Evil)
Vandor Four : A planetoid in a binary system, comprised of a B-class giant and
  a pulsar.  It is here that Dr. Paul Manheim conducts his dangerous time
  experimentation.  (We'll Always Have Paris)
Velara Three : A planet undergoing terraformation by the Federation project 
  "Gardeners of Eden".  It is home to a microscopic, inorganic, intelligent
  life form which is called "microbrain".  (Home Soil)
Vulcana Regar : Evidentally a Vulcan colony world, or the planet itself; T'Sha-
  lik is from here.  (Coming of Age)
Xerxes Seven : Planet on which the Neinmann civilization disappeared, like the
  Earth culture Atlantis.  (When the Bough Breaks)
Zaldan : Planet whose humanoid occupants have webbed hands and who look upon
  common courtesy as an insult.  (Coming of Age)
Zedak Four : A planet with vast oceans and good fishing; the young boy Harry
  used to live there.  (When the Bough Breaks)
Zed Lapis Sector : Area of space where Vagra Two is located.  (Skin of Evil)
Zendi Sabu System : The Enterprise encountered DaiMon Box's ship here as well
  as "rediscovered" the lost USS Stargazer.  (The Battle)


----STARSHIP DIRECTORY---------------------------------------------------------

Ajax, USS : Another ship involved in Kosinski's experiments.  (Where No One...)
Batris : A Telarian vessel off course in the Neutral Zone; it was comman-
  deered by Klingons under Koras and found by Enterprise.  (Heart of Glory)
Berlin, USS : Starship holding picket duty in the Romulan Neutral Zone.  The
  Enterprise must join her to defend against Romulan unrest (Angel One)
Charleston, USS : Ship that was to rendezvous with Enterprise, it was bound for
  Earth but was delayed at Arloph Nine.  (The Neutral Zone)
Devo : Ferengi vessel encountered in the Zendi Sabu system.  (The Last Outpost)
Drake, USS : A light cruiser commanded by Captain Paul Rice.  It was destroyed
  by the Echo Papa 607, a Minos-invented weapon.  (The Arsenal of Freedom)
Enterprise, USS : NCC-1701-D, a Galaxy Class explorer ship on a mission to go
  where no one has gone before.  Commanded by Captain Jean-Luc Picard; its
  first officer is Commander William T. Riker.  Built at the Utopia Planetia
  shipyards at Mars; this is its first mission.  Crew complement of over 1000
  including children and families.  The fifth starship to carry the proud 
  name.
Fearless, USS : Excelsior-Class ship that transported Kosinski to the Enter-
  prise to commence his testing of the new warp designs.  (Where No One...)
Ferengi Ships : Encountered in the Zendi Sabu system (where it was called the
  Devo) and the Delphi Ardu system.  (The Battle, The Last Outpost)
Gettysburg, USS : Admiral Mark Jameson's former command.  (Too Short a Season)
Hood, USS : Excelsior-Class starship commanded by Captain DeSoto.  Its first 
  officer was Will Riker, before he transferred to Enterprise.  This ship
  also transported Geordi La Forge and the Crushers to Farpoint Station to
  meet Enterprise.  (Encounter at Farpoint)
Horatio, USS : Ambassador class ship commanded by Captain Walker Keel.  It was
  mysteriously destroyed after Keel warned Picard about the deadly Starfleet
  investigation.  (Conspiracy)
Kartag : Imperial Klingon Vessel that was pursuing Koras and his renegade
  Klingons.  (Heart of Glory)
Lallo, SS : A freighter that feels the time distort.  (We'll Always Have Paris)
Melbourne, USS : Ship in dock at Starbase 74.  (11001001)
Odin, SS : A freighter commanded by Captain Ramsey that was blown off course
  by asteroids and crashed on Asphia.  Several of its crew, including Ramsey,
  managed to enter escape pods and make it to Angel One (Angel One)
Renegade, USS : A frigate commanded by Captain Tryla Scott, who was controlled 
  by the Parasites.  (Conspiracy)
Romulan Ship : Under command of Commander T'Bok, it encounters the Enterprise 
  in the Neutral Zone.  (The Neutral Zone)
Sanction : One of three remaining Ornaran freighters, it was destroyed because
  its control coil malfunctioned and it couldn't reach escape velocity from
  Brekka.  (Symbiosis)
Stargazer, USS : Captain Picard's first command.  The ship was involved in a
  skirmish with a then-unidentified Ferengi battleship at Maxia Zeta and was
  lost, then was presented nine years later in the Zendi Sabu system by the
  Ferengi as a gift to Picard.  Its ID is NCC-2893.  (The Battle)
T'Acog : Ship that the Batris destroyed after commandeered. (Heart of Glory)
Tarellian Ship : Carrying survivors of the planet Tarella, destroyed by a
  biological war, it was on course for Haven.  It eventually turned away for
  deep space when Dr. Wyatt Miller beamed aboard.  (Haven)
Thomas Paine, USS : A frigate under command of Captain Rixx.  (Conspiracy)
Trieste, USS : Ship that Quinteros recommends pursue the Enterprise--it is the
  closest to Starbase 74, but is too slow.  (11001001)
Tripoli, USS : Ship that visited Omicron Theta IV and found Data (Datalore)
Tsiolkovsky, USS : A Grissom-Class freighter infected with the Psi-2000 virus,
  its crew committed suicide.  (The Naked Now)
Wellington, USS : Ship that the Bynars worked on before the Enterprise was
  stolen.  (11001001)


----COMPLETE CAST/CHARACTER LIST-----------------------------------------------
(Actor who plays each character is in brackets.  If the character was only 
  mentioned, it is classified as "unseen"; if the character was seen but never
  identified with an actor, he or she is "unknown".)

Aaron, Admiral [Ray Reinhardt]: Elder officer controlled by Parasites on Earth.
  (Conspiracy)
Accolan [Dan Mason]: "Adopted father" to Harry Bernard. (When the Bough Breaks)
Alexandra [Jessica and Vanessa Bova]: A young girl kidnapped from Enterprise;
  Rachella refused to give her up.  Her mom is Toya.  (When the Bough Breaks)
Aran [unknown]: Intended to be Aldean father to Alexandra.  (When the Bough...)
Ardan [unseen]: Once a Mordanite terrorist, now dead; Jameson believes he is
  still alive and responsible for the Mordan kidnapping. (Too Short a Season)
Argyle, Blake [Biff Yeager]: Engineering officer, USS Enterprise.  Has red-gold
  hair and beard.  (Where No One..., Datalore)
Ariana [Danitza Kingsley]: Wyatt Miller's dream girl, a dying Tarellian refu-
  gee.  It was her impression that led to his choice to join them.  (Haven)
Ariel [Patricia MacPherson]: Assistant to Beate of Angel One, she was also in 
  love with Captain Ramsey and was almost sentenced to death.  (Angel One)
Armus [Mart McChesney, voice of Ron Gans]: A creature made of a material remi-
  niscent of oil, it can change its shape at will and enjoys making its vic-
  tims suffer.  It killed Tasha Yar.  (Skin of Evil)
Badar N'D'D' [John Durbin]: Leader of the Antican party on the Enterprise tra-
  velling to Parliament.  (Lonely Among Us)
Ballerina [Victoria Dillard]: Enterprise crewman who hallucinated a dance in
  the ship's holodeck.  (Where No One Has Gone Before)
Bandi Shopkeeper [David Erskine]: (Encounter at Farpoint)
Bass Player [Abdul Salaam El Razzac]: Part of the holodeck band.  (11001001)
Beach [unseen]: Someone who called Dixon's office twice.  (The Big Goodbye)
Beate [Karen Montgomery]: Elected One of Angel One, she tried to seduce Riker
  and almost sentenced Ramsey to death.  She eventually changed her mind with
  Riker's persuasiveness.  (Angel One)
Bell, Dan [William Boyett]: Police Chief, San Francisco 1941; part of the Enter-
  prise's holograph of the same era.  (The Big Goodbye)
Benson, Bjorn [Gerard Prendergast]: Chief Engineer of the terraforming project
  on Velara Three. He protests about the laser drill destruction. (Home Soil)
Bernard, Dr. Harry [Dierk Torsek]: Enterprise physician; father of a young
  future artist named Harry.  (When the Bough Breaks)
Bernard, Harry [Philip N. Waller]: A young boy kidnapped from the Enterprise.
  He is artistically talented and impressed the Aldeans.  (When Bough Breaks)
Bok [Frank Corsentino]: A Ferengi DaiMon, commander.  His son was killed by
  Picard nine years ago; he used a mind-sphere to destroy him.  (The Battle)
Box, Talking [Armin Shimerman, unbilleted]: A device with a face that comes
  alive, heralding the arrival of Lwaxana Troi and the Millers.  (Haven)
Bradley, Arthur Glinton [unseen]: Wealthy husband of Jessica Bradley. (Goodbye)
Bradley, Jessica [Carolyn Allport]: A young woman in the 1941 holodeck projec-
  tion killed, which led to Picard's role of Dixon Hill.  (The Big Goodbye)
Bynars, The [Katy Boyer, Alexandra Johnson, Iva Lane, Kelly Ann McNally]: Citi-
  zens of Bynus linked by an organic computer, known as 11, 00, 10 and 01.
  They stole the Enterprise from Starbase 74.  (11001001)
Carapledes, Una [unseen]: Killed in "accident" by Starfleet.  (Conspiracy)
Chang, Lt. [Robert Ito]: Tactical & training officer at Relva VII who becomes
  Wesley's proctor for his Academy exam.  (Coming of Age)
Channing, Dr. [unseen]: Dilithium theorist whose principles Wesley studies in
  science class. (Lonely Among Us)
Clemons, L.Q. "Sonny" [Leon Rippy]: One of three surviving humans on the Earth
  satellite.  He originally died of drug abuse and was cryogenically frozen
  and lived to see the 24th Century.  (The Neutral Zone)
Computer, Enterprise [voice of Majel Barrett, unbilleted]: Onboard computer
  system, holds incredible memory.  Its voice sounds strangely like that of
  the original ship of the first series.
Conn: Bridge position played by David Renan (The Naked Now) and Josh Clark 
  (Justice).  Also: Battle Bridge Conn, played by Colm Meaney (Farpoint)
Crewmember [Charles Dayton]: Caught in a make-believe fire.  (Where No One...)
Crewmember [unknown]: Believed he was part of a string quartet.  (WNOHGB)
Crusher, Dr. Beverly [Gates McFadden]: Chief Medical Officer, USS Enterprise.
  Widow of Jack Crusher, former first officer of USS Stargazer.  Has a son,
  Wesley.  An emotional women attracted to Picard.  She lived on Aveda Three
  as a child.
Crusher, Jack [unseen]: Former first officer, USS Stargazer to Captain Picard,
  father of Wesley and husband of Beverly.  Died on a Stargazer Away team.  
  He was introduced to Beverly by Walker Keel.
Crusher, Wesley [Wil Wheaton]: Acting Ensign, USS Enterprise.  A child genius,
  youngest officer on ship and part of Captain Picard's support staff.  Has
  a tendency to come up with all the answers. / Also played as a Q-accele-
  rated adult by William A. Wallace.  (Hide and Q)
Data, Lieutenant Commander [Brent Spiner]: Operations Officer, USS Enterprise.
  An android, created by Dr. Sung on Omicron Theta IV; was later found by the
  USS Tripoli.  Attended Starfleet Academy after declared sentient by Turing
  Test; served on many vessels before Enterprise.  Has twin, Lore (destroyed)
  Very childlike in approach; his greatest dream is to become human.
Dean, Lieutenant [Dan Kern]: Picard practiced fencing with him. (We'll...Paris)
Desk Sergeant [Mike Genovese]: Flirted with Beverly Crusher.  (The Big Goodbye)
DeSoto, Captain [unseen]: Commanding Officer of USS Hood, he was Riker's former
  supervisor.  Riker forbid him to beam down to Altair III.  (Farpoint)
DiMaggio, Joseph [unseen]: His record was broken by a player on the London
  Kings.  Data calls him 'Joltin Joe' and "Yankee Clipper".  (The Big Goodbye)
Drummer [Ron Brown]: Part of the holodeck band.  (11001001)
Duana [Ivy Bethune]: Wesley's "adopted mother" on Aldea whose weakness led
  Beverly to determine the Aldeans were dying. (When the Bough Breaks)
Dylaplane [unseen]: Governor of Pacifica, he notified Admiral Savar of Picard's
  change in schedule.  (Conspiracy)
Edo Children [Judith Jones, Eric Matthews, David Michel Graves]: They were with
  Wesley when he broke the Edo law and was sentenced to death.  (Justice)
Edourd [Jean-Paul Vignon]: The maitre'd at the cafe in the holodeck-created
  Paris.  (We'll Always Have Paris)
Engineering Crewman [Skip Stellrecht]: (The Naked Now)
Epstein, Professor Terence [unseen]: Dr. Beverly Crusher's favorite instructor
  and idol; he is at Starbase 74.  (11001001)
Female Engineer [Carolyne Barry]: (Home Soil)
Female Ensign, Young [Evelyn Guerrero]: (Encounter at Farpoint)
Female Klingon [Elaine Naree] : Attempted sexual practice with Worf.  (Hide Q)
First Security Guard [Colm Meaney]: (Lonely Among Us)
Francine [Kelly Ashmore]: Friend to Gabrielle.  (We'll Always Have Paris)
Gabrielle [Isabel Lorca]: A girl in the holoimage of Paris that reminded Picard
  of Jenice Manheim.  (We'll Always Have Paris
Gilnor [unseen]: Like Ardan, another terrorist dead for years that Jameson sus-
  pects behind the Mordan kidnappings.  (Too Short a Season)
Hagon [James Louis Watkins]: Former Secondary to Lutan of Ligon.  Gained posi-
  tion of Primary when made First One to Yareena.  (Code of Honor)
Hawkins, Ambassador [unseen]: Leader of the diplomatic party on Mordan IV, he
  is taken hostage by Governor Karnas.  (Too Short a Season)
Herbert, Ensign [Lance Spellerberg]: Transporter officer.  (We'll...Have Paris)
Hill, Dixon, P.I. [Patrick Stewart] : Picard's favorite character, a private
  detective from San Francisco, 1941; he impersonates Hill on the Holodeck du-
  ring the Jarada incident.  (The Big Goodbye)
Homn [Carel Struycken]: Valet to Lwaxana Troi.  A mute (or at least lets every-
  one think so); well versed in sign language; loves to drink.  (Haven)
Innis, Valeda [Anna Katarina]: First Electorine of Haven, she plead with Picard 
  to destroy the Tarellians on contact, fearing for Haven's safety. (Haven)
Jameson, Anne [Marsha Hunt]: Wife of Admiral Mark Jameson, now his widow.  Ac-
  companied her husband to Mordan IV.  (Too Short a Season)
Jameson, Mark [Clayton Rohner]: Admiral, Starfleet.  He stopped a hostage cri-
  sis on Mordan IV 45 years ago.  Died of a Cerberan rejuvenation drug over-
  dose (Too Short a Season)
Karnas [Michael Pataki]: Governor of Mordan IV, he had a vengeance score to
  settle with Admiral Jameson and kidnapped a Starfleet party to instigate
  it. (Too Short a Season)
Katie [Jandi Swanson)An Enterprise child who was kidnapped by the Aldeans and
  taught by Lettian to seek music within herself.  (When the Bough Breaks)
Kayron [Tracey Walter]: A Ferengi under DaiMon Taar.  (The Last Outpost)
Kazago [Doug Warhit]: First Officer of DaiMon Bok's ship, and a sensible Feren-
  gi; he arrested Bok and dealt directly with Commander Riker.  (The Battle)
Keel, Anne [unseen]: One of Walker Keel's two sisters.  (Conspiracy)
Keel, Melissa [unseen]: One of Walker Keel's two sisters.  (Conspiracy)
Keel, Captain Walker [Jonathan Farwell]: An old friend of Picard's who served
  with him and Jack Crusher on Stargazer.  He warned Picard of the suspected
  Starfleet conspiracy and died when his ship was destroyed.  Walker was res-
  ponsible for introducing Beverly to Jack Crusher.  (Conspiracy)
Kim, Dr. Luisa [Elizabeth Lindsey]: Asst. Director of the Gardeners of Eden
  Project on Velara III, she wasn't told about the microbrain.  (Home Soil)
Kirk, James T. [unseen] : Captain of the Enterprise, NCC-1701 and NCC-1701-A.
  Picard refers to his exploits upon discovering the connection between the
  Tsiolkovsky infliction and the Psi-2000 virus.  (The Naked Now)
Kissing Crewman [Kenny Koch]: Got a "gift" from Tasha Yar.  (The Naked Now)
K'Nera, Captain [David Froman]: Commander of Klingon ship who pursued Koras and
  found him on Enterprise.  (Heart of Glory)
Konmel [Charles H. Hyman]: Klingon Lieutenant under Korris; he dies escaping
  from the Enterprise's security ward.  (Heart of Glory)
Korris [Vaughn Armstrong]: Leader of a rebel band of Klingons who believe that
  the alliance with the Federation is against honor.  He died while battling
  Worf.  (Heart of Glory)
Kosinski [Stanley Kamel]: Member of Starfleet Corps of Engineers, and a fraud;
  thought his warp theories would improve speed--a failure. (Where No One...)
Kunivas [Robert Bauer]: Ailing Klingon who died on Enterprise. (Heart of Glory)
Kurland, Jake [Stephen Gregory]: A bright young man on the Enterprise who was
  beaten by Wesley trying to get to take the Academy exam.  (Coming of Age)
La Forge, Geordi [LeVar Burton]: Enterprise bridge officer blind from birth and
  wears a VISOR implant over his eyes.  Geordi is the Captain's protege; he
  frequently takes command of the Enterprise.  He is best friends with Data
  and is trying to teach the android all the basics about being human.
Langor [Kimberly Farr]: One of the two Brekkan salespeople who tried to sell a
  shipment of felicium to the Ornarans.  (Symbiosis)
Leda [Michele Marsh]: "Adopted mother" to Harry Bernard.  (When Bough Breaks)
Leech, Felix [Harvey Jason]: Weasel assistant to crime boss Cyrus Redblock. Al-
  most killed Picard, aka Dixon Hill, in the holodeck.  (The Big Goodbye)
Letek [Armin Shimerman]: A Ferengi under DaiMon Taar.  (The Last Outpost)
Lettian [Paul Lambert]: An Aldean musician, he "adopted" young Enterprise girl
  Katie and encouraged her to seek music in herself.  (When the Bough Breaks)
  (Known as Melian in the script)
Liator [Jay Louden]: One of the Council of Edo, Rubicam Three. Led the inquisi-
  tion into the charged death of Wesley Crusher.  (Justice)
Logan [Vyto Ruginis]: Enterprise Engineer, took over from MacDougal & Argyle.
  Tried to take command during the Minos incident.  (The Arsenal of Freedom)
Lore [Brent Spiner]: Duplicate of Data, also more humanlike and certainly much
  more evil.  Destroyed Omicron Theta; tried same on Enterprise. (Datalore)
Lutan [Jessie Lawrence Ferguson]: Primary of Ligon, leader of its people.  Kid-
  napped Lt. Yar; lost position to his secondary, Hagon.  (Code of Honor)
Lynch, Leland T. [Walker Boone]: Enterprise engineer who was engaged in preven-
  tative maintenance on the dilithium assembly when the distress signal from 
  shuttle 13 was received.  (Skin of Evil)
MacDougal, Sarah [Brooke Bundy]: Chief of Engineering, USS Enterprise.  Shares
  position with Argyle.  (The Naked Now)
Main Bridge Security [Timothy Dang]: (Encounter at Farpoint)
Malencon, Arthur [Mario Roccuzzo]: Hydraulic specialist of the terraforming 
  project on Velara.  The microbrain took over the laser drill and killed him
  with it.  (Home Soil)
Mandarin Bailiff [Cary-Hiroyuki]: An Oriental who assists Q at the Enterprise
  trial.  (Encounter at Farpoint)
Mandl, Kurt [Walter Gotell]: Director of the Gardeners of Eden Terraforming
  Project on Velara III.  He tried to steer Picard clear of the planet and
  then became a nuisance when the microbrain was discovered.  (Home Soil)
Manheim, Janice [Michelle Phillips]: Wife of Dr. Paul Manheim, and Captain Pi-
  card's first love.  She came aboard when the Enterprise investigated her
  husband's time project.  (We'll Always Have Paris)
Manheim, Dr. Paul [Rod Loomis]: A temporal scientist who operates on Vandor 
  Four, he created a time distortion.  (We'll Always Have Paris)
Margan [unknown]: Ornaran leader who pleades with T'Jon and Romas to return
  with the felicium.  (Symbiosis)
Mason [unknown]: Child kidnapped from Enterprise.  (When the Bough Breaks)
Matthew [unknown]: A young Enterprise boy.  (The Last Outpost)
McCoy, Admiral Leonard H. [DeForest Kelley]: Surgeon-General of Starfleet Com-
  mand, retired; former Chief Medical Officer of USS Enterprise.  Age 137. He
  toured the new Enterprise's medical facilities on its first voyage into
  space.  (Encounter at Farpoint)
McKinney [unseen]: Killed in "accident" by Starfleet. (Conspiracy)
McNary [Gary Armagnal]: Lieutenant to Police Chief Dan Bell of San Francisco
  1941; part of the hologram.  He became aware he wasn't real.  (Big Goodbye)
McNary, Sharon [unseen]: Lt. McNary's wife.  Dixon Hill likes her cooking. They
  have children as well.  (The Big Goodbye)
Mediators [David Q. Combs, Richard Lavin]: Two policemen on Rubicam Three who
  sentence Wesley to death.  (Justice)
Medical Officer / Nurse [Brad Zerbst]: (Justice, Heart of Glory, Skin of Evil)
Melian : -see Lettian-
Military Officer [Chuck Hicks]: (Encounter at Farpoint)
Miller, Stephen [Robert Ellenstein]: Wyatt Miller's father.  An old man with
  intense curiosity and a kind heart.  Lives on Earth with his wife. (Haven)
Miller, Victoria [Nan Martin]: Wyatt Miller's mother.  An elder woman who has a
  strong dislike for Lwaxana Troi.  Lives on Earth.  (Haven)
Miller, Wyatt [Rob Knepper]: Medical Doctor and betrothed to Deanna Troi.  He
  took medical supplies and jumped ship to save Tarellian refugees and be
  with his dream girl, Ariana.  (Haven)
Minnerly, Lt. [unseen]: Tasha's competition in the Enterprise martial arts con-
  test.  He was bet against -- by Worf.  (Skin of Evil)
Minuet [Carolyn McCormick]: A hologram image created by the Bynars as a lure
  for Riker, she was very adaptable and VERY beautiful.  Riker can't recall
  her because she was a Bynar creation.  (11001001)
Mirren, Oliana [Estee Chandler]: A girl who competes against Wesley in the 
  Academy exam; she thinks he's "cute" (Coming of Age)
Mordoc [Jake Dengel]: A Ferengi under DaiMon Taar.  (The Last Outpost)
Mordock [John Putch]: A Benzite attempting to enter Starfleet Academy; he suc-
  ceeds, beating Wesley, who helped him on a test.  (Coming of Age)
Offenhouse, Ralph [Peter Mark Richman]: A wealthy financier from the 20th cen-
  tury who died of advanced cardiomyopathy, and lived via cryogenic suspen-
  sion.  He was 55.  He taunted Picard during the Romulan incident.  (The
  Neutral Zone)
Peddler, The [Vincent Schiavelli]: A computer hologram created by the people 
  of Minos, who were destroyed by the weapons they sold to other worlds.  The
  Salesman tried to sell the Echo Papa 607 to Picard.  (Arsenal of Freedom)
Peretor Sain [unseen]: Former rival of Karnas who killed his father.  Karnas
  wanted weapons to defeat Sain in the struggle 45 years ago.  (Too...Season)
Piano Player [Jack Sheldon]: Part of the holodeck band.  (11001001)
Picard, Jean-Luc [Patrick Stewart]: Captain of USS Enterprise, NCC-1701-D. Born
  in Paris, France.  Commanded USS Stargazer; first officer was Jack Crusher.
  A very dignified captain, well-respected in Starfleet.  Very devout to
  literature, especially detective genre.  Does not get on well with kids.
  Balding, handsome man; attracted to Dr. Beverly Crusher.
Picard, Maman [Herta Ware]: A frail old woman who serves Jean-Luc tea when  
  the Enterprise journeys into the Beyond.  (Where No One Has Gone Before)
Pola [unknown]: A young Enterprise boy.  (The Last Outpost)
Portal, The [Darryl Henriques]: Protector of Delphi Ardu, the last Outpost of
  the Tkon Empire; was not aware that the Tkon had fallen. (The Last Outpost)
Prieto, Ben [Raymond Forchion]: Pilot of shuttlecraft 13, he was almost killed
  when the ship crashed on Veigra Two.  (Skin of Evil)
"Q" [John de Lancie]: A member of an advanced alien race with shapechanging po-
  wers, Q is Picard's foremost adversary.  First tested the crew of the En-
  terprise after trying Humanity; then tested Riker's loyalty itself.  Ba-
  nished but almost certain to reappear.  (Encounter at Farpoint, Hide and Q)
Quinn, Gregory [Ward Costello]: A Starfleet Admiral who believes a conspiracy
  to undermine the Federation is underway, he investigates and recruits Pi-
  card for his purpose.  He is later possessed by the Parasites, who are res-
  ponsible for the conspiracy, and attacks Riker.  Quinn is the only admiral
  at Headquarters to survive.  (Coming of Age, Conspiracy)
Quinteros, Orfil [Gene Dynarski]: Base Commander, Starbase 74 (Tarsus III).
  He was among the designers of the galaxy-class Enterprise.  (11001001)
Radue [Jerry Hardin]: Leader of the Aldeans, he cannot accept Picard's claim
  that his people are dying because of radiation.  (When the Bough Breaks)
Ramos [Dennis Madalone]: Enterprise security officer who dies when Koras and
  Konmil break out of their cell.  (Heart of Glory)
Ramsey [Sam Hennings]: Captain of freighter SS Odin, which crashed on Asphia;
  came to Angel One, where he and his crew were fugitives.  (Angel One)
Rashella [Brenda Strong]: Aldean aide to Radu; she refused to give up "adopted
  daughter" Alexandra, kidnapped from Enterprise. (When the Bough Breaks)
Rata [Robert Towers]: Ferengi Science Officer on Bok's ship.  (The Battle)
Raymond, Donald [unseen]: Clare's long-dead husband.  (The Neutral Zone)
Raymond, Clare [Gracie Harrison]: A housewife who originally died of an embo-
  lism, was cryogenically frozen and put on the earth satellite.  She lived
  to see the 24th century.  She was 35 years old.  (The Neutral Zone)
Raymond, Eddie and Tommy [unseen]: Clare's sons, age 8 and 5 when she "died",
  born in Secaucus, New Jersey.  (The Neutral Zone)
Raymond, Thomas [unseen]: A descendant of Clare's, now living on Earth.  She
  promised to visit him.  (The Neutral Zone)
Redblock, Cyrus [Lawrence Tierney]: Crime boss in 1941 San Francisco. He threa-
  tened Picard and crew when the holodeck malfunctioned.  (The Big Goodbye)
Remmick, Dexter [Robert Schenkkan]: A Starfleet Commander from the Inspector
  General's office, he is a chief investigator in the Starfleet conspiracy 
  and questions the Enterprise crew and especially Picard.  He is later pos-
  sessed by the Parasite mother creature and dies when Picard and Riker des-
  troy it.  (Coming of Age, Conspiracy)
Rice, Paul [Marco Rodriguez]: Captain of USS Drake; died on Minos and later
  replicated by the Echo Papa 607.  (The Arsenal of Freedom)
Riker, William T. [Jonathan Frakes]: First Officer of USS Enterprise, known as
  Number One to Captain Picard, his friend.  Former first officer on USS Hood
  under Captain DeSoto.  Very devoted to his pursuit to command his own star-
  ship, which long ago led into problems with love interest Deanna Troi. Very
  large, muscular man; has many romantic entanglements.
Rivan [Brenda Bakke]: One of the Council of Edo, Rubicam Three.  She was part
  of the Enterprise liaison and "saw God" aboard the ship.  (Justice)
Rixx, Captain [Michael Berryman]: Captain of USS Thomas Paine, he met Captain
  Picard at the Altarian Conference.  (Conspiracy)
Romas [Richard Lineback]: An Ornaran dependant on phylicium.  (Symbiosis)
Rondon [Daniel Riordan]: A Zaldan who insults Wesley.  (Coming of Age)
Rose [unknown]: Child kidnapped from Enterprise.  (When the Bough Breaks)
Savar, Admiral [Henry Darrow]: Vulcan officer, implied to be Starfleet Grand
  Admiral or near such post.  He was controlled by a Parasite.  (Conspiracy)
Scott, Captain Tryla [Ursaline Bryant]: Captain of USS Renegade, she made cap-
  tain faster than anyone in Starfleet history.  It's implied to be fishy;
  Scott was controlled by the Parasites.  (Conspiracy)
Secretary [Rhonda Aldrich]: Perky assistant to Dixon Hill.  (The Big Goodbye)
Shimoda, Jim [Benjamin W.S. Lum]: Asst. Chief of Engineering, USS Enterprise.
  His mind was altered from the Psi-2000 disease and he removed all the chips
  from the main Engineering computer.  (The Naked Now)
Sigman Survivor [Elaine Nalee]: Survivor of mine accident.  (Hide and Q)
Singh [Kavi Raz]: Engineer, USS Enterprise. Killed by the energy cloud creature
  during a trip to Parliament.  (Lonely Among Us)
Sobi [Judson Scott]: Leader of the Breckan sales party who were trapped on the
  Sanction and taken by the Enterprise.  (Symbiosis)
Solis [George de la Pena]: Lieutenant, an Enterprise CON officer.  He and Lian
  T'Su were put to the test by Geordi at Minos.  (The Arsenal of Freedom)
Ssestar [unknown]: Selay dignitary on the Enterprise.  (Lonely Among Us)
Sung, Dr. Noonian [unseen]: Asimovian scientist, tried to create positronic 
  brain, then fled society. Evidently he succeeded: Data and Lore. (Datalore)
Swenson [unseen]: Science Officer, Tasha's first competition in the ship's mar-
  tial arts contest.  (Skin of Evil)
Sype, Ryan [unseen]: Killed in "accident" by Starfleet.  (Conspiracy)
Taar [Mike Gomez]: A Ferengi DaiMon, commander of a battle cruiser.  Battled
  Picard at Delphi Ardu.  (The Last Outpost)
T'Bok, Commander [Marc Alaimo]: Captain of Romulan ship that crosses the Neu-
  tral Zone and pledges to help Picard.  (The Neutral Zone)
Technicians [Brendan McKane, Wyatt Knight]: Two men involved in Wesley's Aca-
  demy test, they fake death in a lab accident.  (Coming of Age)
T'Jon [Merritt Butrick]: Ornaran captain of the Sanction, he was a drug addict
  responsible for getting a container of phylicium from Brecka. (Symbiosis)
Thei [Anthony James]: Subcommander of Romulan ship.  (The Neutral Zone)
Thug [Erik Cord]: (The Big Goodbye)
Torres [Jimmy Ortega]: Ensign, USS Enterprise.  Was frozen solid by the Q du-
  ring his first visit.  (Encounter at Farpoint)
Toya [Connie Danese]: Mother to Alexandra, a kidnapped child. (Bough Breaks)
Transporter Chief [Michael Rider]: [The Naked Now, Code of Honor, Haven]
Traveler, The [Eric Menyuk]: A journeyer through space and time, searching for
  "those of remark and intelligence".  He found it--in Wesley Crusher (Where
  No One Has Gone Before)
Trent [Leonard John Crofoot]: Male servant to Beate of Angel One, he was con-
  sidered inferior and did almost anything to please her.  (Angel One)
Troi, Deanna [Marina Sirtis]: Chief Counselor and Psychologist, USS Enterprise,
  and only civilian member of its bridge crew.  Born on Betazed to human fa-
  ther and mother Lwaxana, Deanna is a telepath/empath.  Had a failed love 
  with Commander Riker.  Was engaged to Wyatt Miller by prearranged marriage
  but situation was resolved.  
Troi, Lwaxana [Majel Barrett]: Betazoid mother to Deanna Troi, she is the 
  "daughter of the Fifth House, holder of the sacred Chalice of Rixx, Heir to
  the Holy Rings of Betazed."  A telepathic busybody with a flair for thea-
  trics.  (Haven)
T'Shalik [Tasia Valenza]: A Vulcan girl from a Starfleet ship who attends the
  Academy test.  (Coming of Age)
T'Su, Lian [Julia Nickson]: Ensign, an Enterprise OPS officer.  She and Solis
  were put to the test by Geordi at Minos.  (The Arsenal of Freedom)
Vender [Dick Miller]: Gave a newspaper to Picard free of charge. (Big Goodbye)
Vigo [unknown]: Weapons officer on Stargazer. (The Battle)
Whalen [David Selburg]: Historian, USS Enterprise.  Nearly killed in the mal-
  functioning holodeck by Felix Leech.  (The Big Goodbye)
Wong, Lieutenant [unseen]: She can repair the climate control systems on the
  Enterprise, says Geordi.  (Angel One)
Worf [Michael Dorn]: Operations officer on USS Enterprise and now acting Secu-
  rity Chief.  Born on Khitomer, he was rescued by humans and taken to live
  on Gault.  He is the first Klingon in Starfleet Academy and sometimes con-
  siders himself more human than Klingon.  However, he is firmly educated in
  the ways of the Klingon.  He was given the title of Security Chief after
  the death of Lt. Yar.
Wrenn [Raye Birk]: Leader of the last survivors of Tarellia, and a dying man.
  He welcomed Wyatt and made the decision to turn away from Haven.  (Haven)
Xelo [unseen]: Former valet to Lwaxana Troi; terminated because of his "porno-
  graphic thoughts" about her, which she of course read like a book. (Haven)
Yar, Lieutenant Natasha "Tasha" [Denise Crosby]: Chief of Security, USS Enter-
  prise.  Was born on a failed Federation colony world where rape gangs pre-
  vailed.  Rescued by Starfleet, she worshipped the organization and became
  a top security officer well versed in martial arts.  Tasha died while try-
  ing to rescue Enterprise officers on Veigra Two, and her death affected the
  ship's command crew greatly.  
Yareena [Karole Selmon]: Former First One to Lutan of Ligon, and his wife; she 
  challenged Tasha to a death duel then gained planetary rule.  (Code Honor)
Youngblood, Ensign [James Becker]: Science Specialist, USS Enterprise.  Part of
  the bridge staff; never billeted in credits.  
Zena [unknown]: Intended to be Alexandra's mother on Aldea.  (When the Bough..)
Zorn, Groppler [Michael Bell]: Leader of the Bandi, on Deneb IV.  Held one of
  two alien entities hostage there; was later forced to release it. (Encoun-
  ter at Farpoint)


----SUBJECTS CATALOG-----------------------------------------------------------

A&P Parisian Grand Premier : Alcoholic beverage that Lore uses to knock Data
  cold.  (Datalore)
Age of Inclusion : Worf was brought to Gault before this critical point in
  Klingon age.  (Heart of Glory)
Airlocks : Enterprise has a number of these; number five was used when the ship
  was held at Starbase 74.  (11001001)
Albeni Meditation Crystal : A gift to Beate from Riker.  (Angel One)
Aldebaran Serpent : Q appears as one to Picard and crew on his second appea-
    rance on the Enterprise.  (Hide and Q)
Altarian Conference : Picard met Captain Rixx here long ago.  (Conspiracy)
Anchilles Fever :  A plague that has overrun Styris Four.  (Code of Honor)
Andonian Tea : Picard is served it while on Earth.  (Conspiracy)
Atlanta Braves : A baseball team from the 20th Century among whose fans number
  Sonny Clemons.  (Neutral Zone)
Bandi : Inhabitants of Deneb IV, also known as the Farpoint planet.  (Farpoint)
Baseball : Wesley's favorite sport.  (Justice)
Battle of Maxia : Actual first battle between the Ferengi and the Federation
  it was unknown that the invading ship was that particular enemy.  The Fe-
  rengi ship destroyed Picard's command, the Stargazer.  (The Battle)
Benzite : Race with a peculiar (presumed) breathing mechanism, they are large,
  with grey skin and resemble a human - elephantine crossbreeding.  Mordok
  was the first Benzite to attend Starfleet Academy.  (Coming of Age)
Bessel Functions : Something Kosinski used during his first test on the Enter-
  prise's warp engines.  (Where No One Has Gone Before)
Blue Parrot Cafe : A place on Sarona Eight that serves the famous Blue Parrot.
  When the Enterprise arrives, Picard says Troi's buying.  (We'll...Paris)
Bolians : Race of humanoids with a Klingon-like ridge stretching from their
  heads down across their necks.  Captain Rixx is one.  (Conspiracy)
Bonding Gifts : The "box" beamed aboard the Enterprise contains many for Deanna
  Troi from the Millers.  (Haven)
Bourbon Street : Location of the "bar" Riker visits in the holodeck. (11001001)
Buffers : The Bynars' information processors, worn on their waists. (11001001)
Bulgalian Sludge Rat : Rondon calls Wesley one.  (Coming of Age)
C-335 Cargo Management Unit : Riker mentions this as a possible addition to the
  Enterprise's cargo systems.  (Coming of Age)
Cafe des Artistes : Paris Cafe that Picard recreates in the holodeck; it was
  here that he stood up Jenice Manheim.  (We'll Always Have Paris)
Cafe Roulin : The name of the cafe that Picard said he confused with Cafe des
  Artistes on the day he stood up Jenice.  (We'll Always Have Paris)
Capsule, Earth : A derelict Earth satellite with cryogenic containers aboard;
  only three occupants survived the 370 years of transit. (The Neutral Zone)
Cargo Bays : Yar was kidnapped by the Ligonians in Bay 1; Lore was destroyed in
  Bay 3; Crusher has the Sigman survivors beamed up to Bay 6; the felicium is
  interred in Bay 11.  (Code of Honor, Datalore, Hide and Q, Symbiosis)
Centerplace : The elaborate manor of a Ligonian Primary, such as Lutan.  It is
  abundantly decorated, located above the common city and extensively built
  for wealth.  Lutan's is enormous and incredible.  (Code of Honor)
Cerberan Youth Drug : Reverses the aging process slowly; Admiral Jameson took a
  whole dose at once.  It killed him.  (Too Short a Season)
Chameleon Rose -- A flower that changes color depending on the mood of the 
  bearer.  Wyatt presented one to Deanna on his visit.  (Haven)
Chime, Betazoid : Chime for giving thanks for food.  (Haven)
Cloud Creature : Encountered in space, part was accidentally caught by the
  Enterprise and it took over several crewmembers, including the captain, to
  get back to the larger body.  (Lonely Among Us)
Code 47 : Starfleet Emergency transmission, for Captain's eyes only.  Walker 
  Keel uses this to contact Picard.  (Conspiracy)
Common Cold : A disease Federation medicine has now cured.  The disease that
  swept the ship over Angel One resembled it.  (Angel One)
Control Chips : Removed by Mr. Shimoda, and reloaded by Data, after the former
  is affected by the Psi-2000 Virus.  (The Naked Now)
Control Coils : Integral parts of the Ornaran freighters.  Picard offered to 
  fabricate two for the remaining two ships but then refused to give them up,
  insuring that the Ornarans would not be able to reach Brecka anymore and
  receive the phylicium consignments.  (Symbiosis)
Counting Coup : An Earth method of capturing goods or persons of an enemy and
  then demanding that the adversary accede that the capture granted them
  honor.  The Ligonian code is very similar.  (Code of Honor)
Crystal Entity : A crystalline species that feeds off the emanations from life
  forms.  Lore summoned it to Omicron Theta to destroy the inhabitants and
  then let it feed on the Enterprise.  (Datalore)
Custodian, The : Massive supercomputer on Aldea built by the Progenitors.  The
  Custodian could fire bursts of energy, cloak the planet and instantaneously
  transport anyone wherever they wished.  (When the Bough Breaks)
Denubian Alps : Simulated by the holodeck, where Wesley and a friend go skiing.
  (Angel One)
Deuterium Gas : Engineering element that escaped from the reactor on Battress,
  eventually causing its explosion.  (Heart of Glory)
Dixieland Jazz : Minuet says it's the only form of jazz she doesn't like, be-
  cause you can't dance to it.  (11001001)
Dytalix Mining Corporation : Operators of the mines on planets of the Mira
  System.  (Conspiracy)
Echo Papa 607 : Weapon in four stages designed by the now-dead people of Minos
  which grew in each stage to fight back against its target.  The Salesman
  tried to sell it to Picard.  (The Arsenal of Freedom)
Edo : The inhabitants of Rubicam Three; a hedonistic culture.  (Justice)
Edo Bubble : "Portable projection" that invades the ship to link with Data and
  determine why the Enterprise orbits Rubicam Three.  (Justice)
Edo Lord : An odd, translucent formation resembling a space station not fully 
  present in our dimension, it guided the Edo, inhabitants of Rubicam Three,
  and rejected the Enterprise's visit.  (Justice)
Elected One -- The head of state on Angel One.  The current Elected One is 
  Beate.  (Angel One)
Electromagnetic Synthomometer : Technology used to reassemble Lore.  (Datalore)
Energy Grid : Used as a travel mechanism and a barricade by the Q.  It could 
  travel as fast as the Enterprise.  (Encounter at Farpoint, Hide and Q)
Epidermal Mold : Data and Lore were constructed with these.  (Datalore)
Ersalrope Wars : A conflict that evidentally happened within the past 78 years.
    The war was fought by both sides using weapons from Minos, a planet later
    destroyed by its own technology.  (The Arsenal of Freedom)
Fairmont Hotel : Dixon Hill's secretary thinks he's been moonlighting as a
  bellboy here.  (The Big Goodbye)
Farpoint : A luxurious complex built by the Bandi to appease the Federation. It
  was really a life-entity of its own.  (Encounter at Farpoint)
Felicium : A narcotic that 200 years ago immunized both the Breckans and Orna-
  rans of a deadly plague.  The Ornarans think they still have it and use 
  large quantities of the drug, which is the only thing the explotative Brec-
  kans produce, thereby insuring a mutual dependancy.  (Symbiosis)
Fencing : Sport that Picard and Lt. Dean engage in.  (We'll Always Have Paris)
Ferengi, The : A villainous race whose existence was first suspected by the Fe-
  deration 54 years ago and whose influence was a key factor in the peace ne-
  gotiations between the UFP and Klingon Empires.  They are a race of "yankee
  traders", always interested in profit.  Their ships are as powerful as 
  Starfleet's.  (The Last Outpost, The Battle)
First Electorine : Administrator's title on Haven.  (Haven)
Flex-Coordinating Sensor : Wesley looks at one during his Academy exams, much
  to Mordock's consternation.  (Coming of Age)
Gardeners of Eden : The name of the terraforming project on Velara. (Home Soil)
Glavyn : The warbird-type weapon worn over the hand used by Ligonians in armed
  combat.  (Code of Honor)
"Globe Illustrated Shakespeare, The" : Book that Picard keeps in his ready 
  room; he shows it to Q.  (Hide and Q)
Heglenian Shift: Used by the Ligon transporters.  (Code of Honor)
Holmes, Sherlock : Fictional detective that Data emulates.  (Lonely Among Us)
Holodecks : A fabulous energy-projection system on the Enterprise; can be used
  in virtually any situation.  Holodeck 3 is used in the Dixon Hill situation,
  where Wesley is skiing, and where Cafe des Artistes is created; holodeck 4
  is where Riker creates the Bourbon Street bar.  (Encounter at Farpoint, Code
  of Honor, Haven, The Big Goodbye, 11001001, Skin of Evil, We'll....Paris)
Hyperspace Physics Test : Part of the Academy test.  Wesley, T'Shalik and
  Mordock pass; Oliana Mirren fails it.  (Coming of Age)
Imzadi : A Betazed term meaning "my beloved".  (Haven)
Inspector General's Office : The division of Starfleet in with Dexter Remmick
  is employed.  (Coming of Age, Conspiracy)
"Item," The : Never properly identified; that which Cyrus Redblock killed Jes-
  sica Bradley over and then tried to kill Dixon (Picard).  One can assume
  that the item was a bird -- specifically, the Maltese Falcon. (Big Goodbye)
Iverson's Disease : An irreversible condition that Admiral Mark Jameson is in-
  flicted with.  The Cerberan youth drug reverses it.  (Too Short a Season)
Jazz : Riker loves it; so does Minuet, all save Dixieland.  (11001001)
Joining : A Betazoid marriage ceremony, widely regarded (according to Lwaxana
  Troi) as the most beautiful in the galaxy.  It begins when the entire wed-
  ding party removes their clothing, symbolizing total love.  (Haven)
Klingon Death Ritual : A process whereby living Klingons warn the dead that a
  Klingon warrior is about to join them.  The Klingon participants open the
  eyes of the dead soldier and lift their heads, crying out. (Heart of Glory)
Klingon Empire : The Federation's former chief adversary. Due to Ferengi inter-
  ference, the Klingons sought out the Federation for a peace treaty and now
  the two goverments, keeping with the original Organian prediction that the
  two races would become friends, are allies.  Worf is the only Klingon that
  serves with the Federation; otherwise they are still warlike but relations
  between them and the Federation are mostly cordial.  There ARE renegades
  such as Koras who wish war, but these are evidentally few. (Heart of Glory)
Light, Personal Relaxation : Picard notes he's going to curl up with a good
  book under this.  (11001001)
London Kings : Baseball team of the 21st century, a player on which broke Joe
  DiMaggio's hitting streak record.  (The Big Goodbye)
"Lollipop" : Riker calls it a good ship; he says he's from it instead of the
  Enterprise to fool the image of Paul Rice.  (The Arsenal of Freedom)
Manheim Effect : Time distorion created on Vandor IV.  (We'll Always...Paris)
Martini : The Enterprise makes the best that Sonny's ever had.  (Neutral Zone)
Melanoid Slimeworm : Rondon calls Wesley one.  (Coming of Age)
Merculite Rockets : According to Koras, it was with these that the Klingons on
  the Battress were able to ward off the Ferengi with.  (Heart of Glory)
Microbrain : An inorganic, microscopic, intelligent life form from Velara Three
  that declared war on the Enterprise.  Picard convinced it of his sincerity
  and it returned to Velara, asking humans to return in 300 years. (HomeSoil)
Mind-Sphere : A mind-control device used by DaiMon Bok; it gave Picard severe
  headaches and eventually convinced him that he was on the Stargazer.  All
  of them were destroyed.  (The Battle)
Mishiama Wrist Lock and Break : A martial arts maneuver that Tasha wants to
  learn for the Enterprise competition -- a technique that she wants to try 
  with Worf.  Tasha never uses it, though.  (Skin of Evil)
Mistresses -- The officials of the planet Angel One, it is a completely female
  body.  The head of state is the Elected One.  (Angel One)
Mordok Strategy : Something that makes the Benzite, Mordok, famous to Wesley
  at the Academy.  (Coming of Age)
Neinmann -- A lost civilization compared to Atlantis.  It disappeared on Xerxes
  Seven.  (When the Bough Breaks)
Night-Blooming Throgni : A Klingon plant.  Worf compares the scent that trans-
  mits a virus on the ship to it.  (Angel One)
Noreph : Drug used by Crusher in hopes of saving Tasha.  It fails. (Skin..Evil)
Ornaran Plague : Disease created, and destroyed, 200 years ago, but the people
  of Ornara think they still have it.  (Symbiosis)
Outposts : Planets of the now-dead Tkon Empire that could travel through space.
  Delphi Ardu was the last of them, guarded by Portal 6-3.  (Last Outpost)
Parasites : Alien beings in direct control of key Starfleet personnel, in an
  inner symbiotic relationship.  The Parasites say they wish to "co-exist"
  with humans but are interested in control.  The mother creature that inha-
  bited Dexter Remmick was destroyed but they sent a probe to the far reaches
  of the galaxy.  They MAY also be involved with the destruction of the Romu-
  lan and Federation outpost catastrophes.  (Conspiracy, <The Neutral Zone>)
Parrises Squares : A game played by Tasha and Worf.  (11001001)
"Penalty Box" : The Enterprise bridge, according to Q.  (Hide and Q)
"Phasing" : A way the Traveler, as near as can be imagined, moves through time
  and space.  Parts of him disappear and return in a strange pattern.  After
  he returns Enterprise to the Federation he phases away.  (Where No One...)
Picard Maneuver, The : Picard's famous strategy used during the Battle of 
  Maxia.  (The Battle)
Platinum : An element not found on Angel One.  (Angel One)
Positronic Theory : Created by Dr. Isaac Asimov.  Data is supposedly patterned
  after this theory.  (Datalore)
Post Atomic Horror : The time period following World War III.  (Farpoint)
Prime Directive : Starfleet General Order 1--no vessel or officer is allowed to
  interfere with an advancing society.  (General theme throughout series, 
  used to potential in Symbiosis)
Progenitors, The : Builders of the Custodian on planet Aldea. (Could be somehow
  related to the Providers from ST?)  (When the Bough Breaks)
Psi-2000 Virus : Encountered by the original Enterprise, it was a disease that
  released the inhibitions of those it infected.  Created by gravitational 
  effects on water, the new Enterprise also encountered it.  (The Naked Now)
Psych Test : Analogue for a crisis-relation examination Starfleet Academy can-
  didates must undergo; Wesley's was to save two technicians from almost cer-
  tain death.  (Coming of Age)
Punishment Zone : Randomly selected by the Mediators of Rubicam Three as a
  forbidden area; tresspassing invites death.  (Justice)
Q.E. II (Queen Elizabeth Two) : 20th Century cruise ship; Ralph Offenhouse com-
  pares the Enterprise to this.  (The Neutral Zone)
Quadratanium : Element of which Data and Lore are constructed.  (Datalore)
Regulation 6.57, Starfleet : "At least two staff officers shall be present du-
  ring any treaty or contract negotiation," ruses Picard.  (When the Bough...)
Repulsor Beam : Also known as a pressor beam, it is a reconfigured tractor. 
  Wesley transformed the Enterprise's tractor into a pressor.  (Naked Now)  
Romulan Empire, The : Vulcanoid species, a major adversary of the Federation.
  They have been silent for 53 years since the Tomid Incident, though they
  did attack the Khitomer outpost when Worf was a child.  The Romulans still
  wear the same type of uniform though they travel in ships much larger than
  before, larger than the Enterprise, but still modeled after the Bird of
  Prey. (Mentioned in Angel One, When the Bough Breaks; seen in Neutral Zone)
Shuttlecraft 13 : Shuttle destroyed on the surface of Veigra Two when it was
  brought down by the Armus.  (Skin of Evil)
Steelplast : Hard material that can be cut by phasers.  (Too Short a Season)
Sun Tzu [unseen]: An ancient Chinese oracle, the strategies of which are still
  taught in Starfleet.  The most famous is: "He will triumph who knows when
  to fight and when not to fight."  (The Last Outpost)
Supersedence : A right for First Ones of Ligon to challenge a new First One 
  elect.  (Code of Honor)
Tarellians : A doomed race from Tarella.  They fought a biological war which
  killed all but a handful of them; some made their way to Haven.  (Haven)
Targ : A Klingon pet; Worf had one as a child.  (Where No One Has Gone Before)
Telarians : A Federation race that created the Battress.  (Heart of Glory)
Tkon Empire, The : A vast alliance of planets that spanned the galaxy and ruled
  600,000 years ago, now aeons dead.  Their Outposts, planets that orbited
  suns driven across space, are now thought to be gone, save for one orbiting
  Delphi Ardu.  Their time periods are measured with names such as Bastu, 
  Cimi, Xora, Makto, Ozari, Fendor, etc.  (The Last Outpost)
Tomid Incident : Last encounter with the Romulans, 53 years, 7 months and 18
  days before.  (The Neutral Zone)
Transporter Rooms : Troi's bonding gifts arrive in Room 1; Picard beams over
  to the Stargazer from, the team from the Batris returns to, and the Minos
  away team beams away from Room 3; Crusher reports to and the Vagra team de-
  parts from Room 4; and Wes leaves from and Quinn and Remmick arrive in Room
  8.  (Haven, The Battle, Heart of Glory, The Arsenal of Freedom, Hide and Q,
  Skin of Evil, Coming of Age)
Tritanium : Alloy that is almost impossible to melt, yet the weapons of Minos
  seem to have done it.  (The Arsenal of Freedom)
Turing Test of Sentient Ability : A test that Data passed, declaring him fit to
  serve in Starfleet.  (ST:TNG Writer's Guide)
T-9 Converter : An energy system stolen from Gamma Tauri by Ferengi.  (Outpost)
"Ugly Bags of Mostly Water" : Reference to humans by the Microbrain. (Homesoil)
United Nations : Lost power by 2079.  (Farpoint)
Visual Acuity Transmitter: A device that, when attached to Geordi's VISOR, al-
  lows monitoring of everything he sees.  When used on the Battress, the
  bridge crew saw it in action -- a jumble of varying spectra -- and saw
  that Data held an aura around his android self.  (Heart of Glory)
VISOR : Visual Instrument and Sight Organ Replacement; a banana-clip-shaped ap-
    paratus worn over the eyes.  Geordi, blind from birth, wears one.  The clip
    allows the owner to see better than a human, but according to Geordi, not
    AS a human.
Whip, Ferengi : Ferengi energy weapon.  (The Last Outpost)
World War Three : According to Q, it was a war in the middle of the 21st cen-
    tury that nearly devastated the planet Earth.
Xylo Eggs : Data paints them, by Geordi's instruction.  (11001001)
Yankee Traders : Merchants of the 17th century; Data compared the Ferengi to 
    them.  (The Battle)
Zaldans : A race of humanoids who find courtesy distasteful.  (Coming of Age)
Zanza Men's Dance Palace : Across the way from the Blue Parrot Cafe.  (Paris)


----WRITERS INDEX--------------------------------------------------------------
(Note: Story and Teleplay credit are where the writer does only one or the 
 other, while Writer refers to someone responsible for both.)

Baron, Michael -- Writer, "Code of Honor"
Barry, Patrick -- Writer, "Angel One"
Beimler, Hans -- Story Editor; Teleplay, "The Arsenal of Freedom", "Symbiosis"
Bingham, J. Michael -- Writer, "The Naked Now"
Black, John D.F. -- Story, "The Naked Now"
Davis, Deborah Dean -- Writer, "We'll Always Have Paris"
Duane, Diane -- Writer, "Where No One Has Gone Before"
Fontana, Dorothy C. -- Producer; Writer, "Encounter at Farpoint"; Teleplay, 
  "Lonely Among Us", "Too Short a Season"; Story, "Heart of Glory"
Forester, Larry -- Story, "The Battle"
Fries, Sandy -- Writer, "Coming of Age"
Glee, Mona -- Story, "The Neutral Zone"
Guers, Karl -- Story, "Homesoil"
Halperin, Michael -- Story, "Lonely Among Us"
Holland, C.J. -- Writer, "Hide and Q"
Hurley, Maurice -- Co-Executive Producer; Story, "Datalore", "The Arsenal of
  Freedom"; Writer, "11001001", "Heart of Glory", "The Neutral Zone"
Krzemian, Richard -- Story, "The Last Outpost"
Lewin, Bob -- Producer; Writer, "Datalore", "11001001", "Symbiosis"; Story,
  "The Arsenal of Freedom"
Manning, Richard -- Story Editor; Teleplay, "The Arsenal of Freedom", "Symbio-
  sis"
McIntyre, Deborah -- Story, "The Neutral Zone"
Michaelian, Michael -- Writer, "Too Short a Season"
O'Kun, Lan -- Story, "Haven"
Powers, Katharyn -- Writer, "Code of Honor"
Reaves, Michael -- Writer, "Where No One Has Gone Before"
Roddenberry, Gene -- Executive Producer; Writer, "Encounter at Farpoint"; Tele-
  play, "Hide and Q", "Datalore"
Sabaroff, Robert -- Writer, "Homesoil"; Story, "Conspiracy"
Sanchez, Ralph -- Story, "Homesoil"
Shearer, Hannah Louise -- Executive Story Editor; Writer, "When the Bough 
  Breaks", "We'll Always Have Paris"; Teleplay, "Skin of Evil"
Stefano, Joseph -- Writer, "Skin of Evil"
Strangis, Greg -- Creative Consultant, "Big Goodbye", "Datalore", "Angel One"
Thorne, Worley -- Writer, "Justice"
Torme, Tracy -- Executive Story Editor; Writer, "Haven", "The Big Goodbye",
  "Conspiracy"
Wills, Ralph -- Story, "Justice"
Wright, Herbert -- Producer; Teleplay, "The Last Outpost", "The Battle"; Story,
  "Heart of Glory"


----DIRECTORS INDEX------------------------------------------------------------

Allen, Corey -- Director, "Encounter at Farpoint", "Homesoil"
Becker, Robert -- Director, "We'll Always Have Paris"
Bole, Cliff -- Director, "Lonely Among Us", "Hide and Q", "Conspiracy"
Bowman, Rob -- Director, "Where No One Has Gone Before", "The Battle", "Data-
  lore", "Too Short a Season", "Heart of Glory"
Colla, Richard -- Director, "The Last Outpost"
Compton, Richard -- Director, "Haven"
Conway, James L. -- Director, "Justice", "The Neutral Zone"
Landau, Les -- Director, "The Arsenal of Freedom"
Lynch, Paul -- Director, "The Naked Now", "11001001"
Manners, Kim -- Director, "When the Bough Breaks"
Mayberry, Russ -- Director, "Code of Honor"
Phelps, Win -- Director, "Symbiosis"
Rhodes, Michael -- Director, "Angel One"
Scanlan, Joseph L. -- Director, "The Big Goodbye", "Skin of Evil"
Vejar, Michael -- Director, "Coming of Age"


----COMPOSERS INDEX------------------------------------------------------------

Courage, Alexander -- Original Star Trek theme, Main Title Theme
Goldsmith, Jerry -- Main Title Theme
Jones, Ron -- Incidental Music, "The Naked Now", "Where No One Has Gone Be-
  fore," "Lonely Among Us," "The Battle," "Datalore," "11001001," "When the
  Bough Breaks," "Heart of Glory," "Skin of Evil," "We'll Always Have Paris,"
  "The Neutral Zone"
LaSalandra, John, S.M.E. -- Music Editor, "Encounter at Farpoint", "The Naked
  Now," "Code of Honor," "The Last Outpost," "Where No One Has Gone Before,"
  "Lonely Among Us," "Justice," "The Battle," "Hide and Q," "Haven," "The 
  Big Goodbye", "Datalore," "Angel One," "Too Short a Season"
McCarthy, Dennis -- Original Main Title Theme; Incidental Music, "Encounter
  at Farpoint," "The Last Outpost," "Justice," "Hide and Q," "Haven," "The
  Big Goodbye," "Angel One," "Home Soil," "Coming of Age," "The Arsenal of
  Freedom," "Symbiosis," "Conspiracy"
Romanis, George -- Incidental Music, "Too Short a Season"
Sackman, Gerry -- Music Editor, "11001001," "When the Bough Breaks," "Home 
  Soil," "Coming of Age," "Heart of Glory," "The Arsenal of Freedom," "Sym-
  biosis," "Skin of Evil," "We'll Always Have Paris," "Conspiracy," "The
  Neutral Zone"
Steiner, Fred -- Incidental Music, "Coming of Age"


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Rat Head                                 Ratsnatcher          510-524-3649
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   415-567-7043
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
       arcane knowledge, political extremism, diversive sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
