
  STAR TREK: THE NEXT GENERATION THIRD SEASON ENCYCLOPEDIA
  A Reference Guide - First Edition

  Editor: Jim Shaun Lyon
  Research and Editorial Assistance: Lisa Blanc, Marilyn Wilkerson, Lee
    Whiteside, Eileen Parkman, Berkeley Hunt, Joseph M. Siegler, Carmen 
    Carter, Dennis Russell Bailey, Pola Staples and Carolyn Kinkead.
  Reference Material provided by Pocket Books, A Division of Simon & Schuster,
    New York, c/o David Stern and Kevin Ryan, Editors.

===============================================================================
  All material is copyright (C) 1990 by Jim Shaun Lyon and Enterprise America:
  The International STAR TREK: THE NEXT GENERATION Fan Organization, a not-
  for-profit fan club, Post Office Box 3273, Costa Mesa, CA  92628-3273.

  Source material copyright (C) 1990 by Paramount Communications; no infringe-
  ment intended.  Usage copyright granted to Pocket Books, a division of
  Simon & Schuster, New York, NY 10020, for contractual reference work.
===============================================================================

==== STARDATE CHRONOLOGY / EPISODE INDEX ======================================
Concerning the two numbers following the title, the first is the episode num-
ber as aired, the second the Paramount Code in the order it was filmed.  The
two-letter code following that is for Index reference.

43125.8 :   Evolution                       (49,150)      EVO
43152.4 :   The Survivors                   (51,151)      SUR
43173.5 :   Who Watches the Watchers?       (52,152)      WHO
43198.7 :   The Bonding                     (53,153)      BON
43205.6 :   Booby Trap                      (54,154)      BTR
43349.2 :   The Enemy                       (55,155)      ENE
43385.6 :   The Price                       (56,156)      PRI
43421.9 :   The Vengeance Factor            (57,157)      VFA
43462.5 :   The Defector                    (58,158)      DEF
43489.2 :   The Hunted                      (59,159)      HUN
43510.7 :   The High Ground                 (60,160)      HGR
43539.1 :   Deja Q                          (61,161)      DEQ
43610.4 :   A Matter of Perspective         (62,162)      MPR
43625.2 :   Yesterday's Enterprise          (63,163)      YES  *
43657.0 :   The Offspring                   (64,164)      OFF
43685.2 :   Sins of the Father              (65,165)      SIN
43714.1 :   Allegiance                      (66,166)      ALL
43745.2 :   Captain's Holiday               (67,167)      CAP
43779.3 :   Tin Man                         (68,168)      TIN
43807.4 :   Hollow Pursuits                 (69,169)      HOL
43872.2 :   The Most Toys                   (70,170)      TOY
43917.4 :   Sarek                           (71,171)      SAR
43930.7 :   Menage A Troi                   (72,172)      MEN
43957.2 :   Transfigurations                (73,173)      TRA
43989.1 :   The Best of Both Worlds         (74,174)      BBW
None    :   The Ensigns of Command          (50,149)      ENS

* The stardate given in "Yesterday's Enterprise" is from a Military Log in the
  alternate timeline.

==== PLANET AND LOCATION INDEX ================================================
Acamar Three : Homeworld of the Acamarians, ruled by Sovereign Marouk.  Picard
  comes here to enlist Marouk's help in reuniting her people with the nomadic
  Gatherers.  (VFA)
Achrady Seven : Lwaxana Troi is returning home from a conference here, says
  Troi, and will visit the Enterprise when it arrives at Starbase 12.  This
  convinces Picard to take a vacation to avoid her.  (CAP)
Alpha Cygnus Nine : Location of a treaty negotiation, part of Sarek's historic
  career.  (SAR)
Alpha Leonis : Enterprise is to take on medical supplies bound for here after
  the Gatherer treaty is sealed.  (VFA)
Angosia : A planet eager for Federation membership, ruled by Prime Minister
  Nayrok.  Originally involved in the Tarsian War, its people have recovered
  very rapidly.  According to Prime Minister Nayrok, the Angosians have dedi-
  cated themselves to developing the mind and cultivating the intellect for
  centuries...but then, they imprison their veterans.  When the veterans try
  to take over, Picard offers the Angosians aid....if the government lasts
  the night.  (HUN)
Archer Four : Riker notes in the alternate timeline that the Klingons shouldn't
  be so confident after the pasting they gave them here.  Later, after the
  timeline is restored, this is the destination Picard orders the Enterprise to
  be set toward.  (YES)
Asteroid Belt : An obstacle en route to Chorgon's ship.  Wesley manages to
  create a route that avoids it completely.  (VFA)
Astral-Five Annex : Presumably a Federation terminal; Picard has Data inform
  the Annex that the Promellian battlecruiser Cleponji should be catalogued
  for retrieval to here.  (BTR)
Barzan II : Owners of the Barzan Wormhole.  A hostile planet environmentally
  to all races but its occupants, it has been dependent on other worlds until
  now; it hopes that the Wormhole will become its first real natural resource
  and bring a "new era of prosperity".  (PRI)
Beth Delta One : Stubbs, with his bloated ego, says that once his experiment is
  over, he will show Troi New Manhattan on Beth Delta One as she has never seen
  it and they will laugh over glasses of champagne.  (EVO)
Beta Agni Two : Site of a tricyanate water contamination, the only treatment
  against which is hytritium.  In actuality, the site was poisoned by Kivas
  Fajo in order to get the Enterprise to rendezvous with him, so he can kidnap
  Data.  There has been no significant geological activity here since the Fe-
  deration colony settled, leading the Enterprise crew to determine that the
  tricyanate water contamination was not natural.  (TOY)
Beta Stromgren : A star in the final stages of an alternating cycle of expan-
  sion and collapse, which will result in a supernova.  Tin Man is discovered
  orbiting it.  It is 23 parsecs beyond the Federation's furthest manned
  explorations, and claimed by the Romulans.  (TIN)
Betazed : Homeworld of the Betazoids.  Deanna is from here; Lwaxana Troi is one
  of its ambassadors.  Tam Elbrun was there when Deanna Troi was studying
  psychology at a Betazoid university.  (TIN)  Riker came here once, a young
  lieutenant who fell for Deanna, a serious psychology student.  (MEN)
Bre'el Four : A planet threatened by the falling of its asteroidal moon (com-
  posed of a ferrous crystalline structure) on its Western Continent, an area
  800 km in radius - which will begin a new Ice Age.  The fall is largely due
  to a black hole outside the system.  When the Enterprise begins investigating
  it is 29 hours from destruction.  Q's intervention saves the planet.  (DEQ)
Browder Four : The Enterprise departs Cor Caroli Five to rendezvous with the
  USS Hood here, to aid in terraforming efforts.  It is detained by the false
  Picard's sojourn to the Lonka pulsar.  (ALL)
Chalna : Homeworld of Esoqq and the Chalnoth people, a race of warriors.
  Picard visited here 12 years before while commanding the Stargazer.  (ALL)
Chandra Five : Tam Elbrun went there, the only Federation delegate assigned
  there.  Home of the Chandrans.  (TIN)
Chaya Seven : Leah Brahms attended the famous caucuses here.  (BTR)
Cor Caroli Five : The Enterprise eradicates the phyrox plague here and departs
  to rendezvous with the USS Hood.  The incident is used by Picard to test
  Mitena Haro, who is actually an alien spy.  (ALL)
Coridan : Ambassador Sarek of Vulcan negotiated the treaty of this planet's
  admission into the Federation.  (SAR; subject of original series episode 
  "Journey to Babel")
Daystrom Annex : An annex of the Daystrom Institute of Technology is located on
  Galor Four.  (OFF)
de Laure Belt : Location of Tau Cygna V.  The area is overwhelmed by hyperonic 
  radiation.  (ENS)
Delta Quadrant : The Enterprise shuttle and the Ferengi pod end up here, 200
  light years away in sector 3556.  (PRI)
Delta Rana System : Location of the planet Rana IV.  (SUR)
Deltived Asteroid Belt : Q2 misplaced it sometime in the past, something that
  Q notes with irony.  (DEQ)
Denkiri Arm : A section of Gamma Quadrant where a Barzan probe ended up.  (PRI)
Earth : Final target of the Borg, located in Section 001.  The Borg ship sets
  course for here.  (BBW)
Emila Two : The Enterprise sets off for here after the incident in the Tanugan
  system.  (MPR)
Galor Four : Location of a Starfleet research center, as well as an annex of
  the Daystrom Institute.  Haftel is from here, and wishes to return here with
  Lal.  (OFF)
Galorndon Core : A Federation world where a Romulan scout vessel containing
  two crewman crash lands.  The hellish environment is full of charged-particle
  precipitation, making Geordi's VISOR go bad, communicators dysfunctional
  and tricorder readings only valid within five meters.  (ENE)  Admiral Jarok
  referred to it when noting how lucky he is Beverly has some experience with
  Romulan medicine.  (DEF)
Gamma Erandi Nebula : Fifteen hours from here the Enterprise is immersed in 
  subspace static.  When it emerges after a mapping mission, Grax informs them
  that Riker, Deanna and Lwaxana have been kidnapped.  (MEN)
Gamma Hromi II : Location of the Gatherer encampment led by Brull.  Data first
  detects life readings, radiation and carbon dioxide combustion; an away team
  led by Riker takes the colony, allowing Picard and Marouk to discuss the
  peace agreement with Brull.  (VFA)
Gamma Quadrant : A vast expanse of space distant from the Federation that the
  Barzan Wormhole reaches.  (PRI)
Gemaris Five : Home of the Gemarians; Picard mediated a dispute here.  (CAP)
Ghorusda : Site of the Ghorusda Disaster.  They have values so complex and so
  different that the Federation sent a specialist - Tam Elbrun - to deal with
  them.  (TIN)
Giles Belt : Wesley says that the Jovis could have made it to here.  (TOY)
Hayashi System : The Enterprise is preparing detailed atmospheric charts of
  this when it is called to take Tam Elbrun to Beta Stromgren.  (TIN)
Hromi Cluster : Location of Gamma Hromi II and the Gatherer camp.  There are
  several charted but not explored Class M planets in the area.  (VFA)
Hurkos Three : Where Ral relocated at age 19 to, a non-aligned planet.  (PRI)
Icor Nine : Site of a symposium on Rogue Star Clusters at its Astrophysics
  Center.  Beverly suggests he take his vacation elsewhere.  (CAP)
Iraatan Five : Where Kivas Fajo was educated.  (TOY)
Jouret Four : Location of the New Providence Colony, one of the Federation's
  outermost colonies, which sends a distress signal shortly before the colony
  is leveled by the Borg.  The colony is silent for twelve hours before the
  Enterprise arrives here.  There were 900 inhabitants of the colony.  (BBW)
Kavis Alpha Four : Selected, with Stubbs' help, as the site of the new nanite
  colony, once they are removed from the Enterprise.  (EVO)
Kavis Alpha Sector : The Enterprise journeys here for scientific reasons; Dr.
  Stubbs will attempt to study the decay of neutronium expelled at relativis-
  tic speeds by a massive stellar explosion.  The event, caused by the neu-
  tron star sucking up the material from the red giant and then exploding, 
  happens once every 196 years.  (EVO)
Khitomer : -see- Khitomer Massacre (in Subject Guide)
Klingon Homeworld : Located in the Klingon system, a dark, shrouded planet
  with a very militaristic atmosphere.  (SIN)
Koinonia : Original homeworld of two races, the corporeal Koinonians and energy
  based aliens, that shared the planet.  The Koinonians destroyed themselves
  in a massive war, leaving the energy creatures on the planet alone.  Marla
  is killed in the third tunnel when the Away team was moving into the ceremo-
  nial tunnel; nobody detected any traps.  (BON)
Lappa IV : The pericules that Tog offers to Lwaxana are native to this planet,
  a Ferengi world.  (MEN)
Legara Four : Home world of the Legarans, where Ambassador Sarek comes aboard
  the Enterprise in order to negotiate a treaty.  (SAR)
Lonka Pulsar : Located in the Lonka cluster, the False Picard brings the Enter-
  prise here to the near brink of disaster in order to test the resolve of its
  crew and the limits of their allegiance to Picard.  It is a rotating neutron
  star of approx. 4.356 solar masses.  (ALL)
Lunar Five : Satellite of Angosia, it is a penal colony that Roga Danar escapes
  from.  A maximum security facility.  (HUN)
Lya Three : Admiral Haden transmits orders to Picard from here; the transmis-
  sion delay is two hours, twenty-two minutes.  (DEF)  The Enterprise heads 
  to the Starbase here after its stay at Angosia - Picard calls it Lyra but it
  is Lya in the script.  (HUN)
Lya Four : Fajo spent almost half a day in orbit around this planet after kid-
  napping Data.  (TOY)
Mintaka Three : A planet populated by proto-Vulcan inhabitants, where a three-
  man Federation Anthropological Field Team has been studying.  When the sta-
  tion's reactor explodes, the Enterprise must aid them.  (WHO)  Picard's self-
  sacrifice to the primitive culture here is referenced by the spectre of
  Mitena Haro.  (ALL)
Mizar Two : Homeworld of the Mizarians; Kova Tholl is from here.  In the last
  300 years of Mizarian history, the planet has been conquered 6 times.  (ALL)
Nahmi Four : The Enterprise is en route here with tissue samples donated by
  the Mikulaks that may help solve this planet's outbreak of Correllium Fever,
  when the ship suffers massive breakdowns.  (HOL)
Narendra Three : A Klingon outpost that, in the alternate timeline, suffered
  an unfortunate catastrophe that was subsequently blamed on the Federation,
  and brought about 22 years of interstellar war.  Actually, the Enterprise-C
  responded to a distress signal from here, and attempted to defend it against
  an attacking Romulan force, but fell through the temporal rift.  (YES)
Nel Bato System : Wesley says the Jovis may have made it to here.  (TOY)
Nelvana Three : A Romulan world where Jarok insists the Romulans are building
  a base from which to attack the Federation with a first-strike.  In actuality
  there is no base here.  Jarok says when he first arrives on the Enterprise
  that its reactor core will be online in 48 hours.  (DEF)
New Manhattan : -see- Beth Delta One
New Providence : -see- Jouret Four
Nigala-IV, Station : The Enterprise's destination following the Bre'el Four
  incident.  (DEQ)
Norkan Outposts : Location of a massacre at the hands of Admiral Jarok.  (DEF)
Ordek Nebula : The Wogneer creatures who live here are referenced by the spec-
  tre of Mitena Haro as indication of Picard's good nature.  (ALL)
Orelious Nine : A world destroyed in the "final battle" between the Promellians
  and the Menthars a millenium ago, by then-primitive weaponry.  The Enterprise
  is assigned to chart the site and stumbles upon the Cleponji, a lost Promel-
  lian battlecruiser.  (BTR)
Otar Two : Picard has the Enterprise set course for the Starbase here after the
  failure to save Lal.  (OFF)
Outer Cometary Cloud : The Enterprise is on patrol here with Commander Kurn
  aboard before it sets course for the Klingon Homeworld.  Composed of approxi-
  mately 2,000 small objects, none in the Enterprise's flight path.  (SIN)
Outpost Seran-T-1 : The dilithium crystal chamber was designed here on Star-
  date 40052 by Dr. Leah Brahms and some of Starfleet's best engineers.  (BTR)
Paulson Nebula : Area of space that the Enterprise ducks into to avoid the
  Borg, and has a moment of respite before they are forced to leave.  It is
  made up on 82 percent dilithium hydroxyls, magnesium and chromium.  (BBW)
Proto-Star Cloud : The Enterprise is on a mission to study a proto-star cloud
  near Tanuga when it drops Riker and Geordi off there to deliver Apgar's much
  needed dicosilium.  (MPR)
Rana IV : A colony of eleven thousand decimated by a Husnock attack of all
  life....save one.  Has three moons, the furthest of which provides cover for
  a Husnock vessel at a LaGrange point.  The planet sends a distress call in-
  tercepted by the Enterprise and then goes emissions quiet.  The planet pos-
  sessed no interstellar spacecraft.  The planet has wonderful tea, which grows
  wild, or did before it was decimated.  (SUR)
Risa : A resort planet that Captain Picard visits on a vacation.  A paradise,
  with warm tropical breezes, exotic food, and a sybaritic outlook on life; its
  women are "very imaginitive".  It is the final resting place of the Tox-
  Uthat, a mysterious device from the future planted here by Kal Dano and
  discovered by Professor Samuel Estragon.  It is located 29 kilometers due
  east of Risa's Pleasure Haven resort.  Weapons are not permitted here.  (CAP)
Romulus : Home planet of the Romulan Empire.  Jarok has visited a hundred
  worlds, none possessing the awesome beauty of Romulus.  He mourns, never to
  see the firefalls of Gal'Gathong or the Apnex Sea.  Data recreates it on the
  holodeck for him, but he is bitter.  (DEF)
Rutia Four : A planet that has enjoyed a long trading relationship with the
  Federation.  The Ansata, an organization fighting for autonomy and self-
  determination, have began terrorist attacks against the Rutian police.
  When the Enterprise comes here, the Ansata believe it is aiding the Rutians,
  so they attack it, kidnap Picard and Beverly and demand that they blockade
  the planet and place a trade embargo on Rutia.  (HGR)
Sarthong Five : Vash says she is going to explore the ruins here...but Picard
  warns her that the Sarthongians deal harshly with trespassers.  (CAP)
Science Outpost : Unknown location; it was raided by Gatherers, and the survi-
  vors were all hit by heavy stun several times.  (VFA)
Sector 396 : Location of the Selimi Asteroid Belt.  (OFF)
Sector 9569 : Where the Enterprise meets the Zalkonian ship.  (TRA)
Selimi Asteroid Belt : The Enterprise travels here to begin charting this when
  Data creates his "child", Lal.  (OFF)
Sentinel Minor Four : The USS Lalo's destination before it was attacked by the
  Borg.  (BBW)
Septimis Minor : Original destination of the SS Artemis, which ended up instead
  on Tau Cygna V.  (ENS)
Shelius : Location of the home planet of the Sheliak Corporate.  It is quite
  distant from Tau Cygna V.  (ENS)
Sierra Six, Outpost : Identifies the Romulan scout ship heading for the
  Federation border.  (DEF)
Sigma Erani System : The only source of hytritium other than the Jovis is in 
  this system, three weeks from the Enterprise's rendezvous point.  The Grissom
  is currently near the system.  (TOY)
Sirrie Four : Where Mark Off-Zel carved the vase that Fajo owns.  (TOY)
Starbase 12 : The Enterprise sets course for here after visiting Gemaris Five,
  but diverts to Risa to drop off Picard.  (CAP)
Starbase 24 : Kahlest was brought here by the USS Intrepid after the Khitomer
  Massacre for treatment.  (SIN)
Starbase 105 : Picard, in the alternate timeline, informs Riker to get the En-
  terprise-C ready to travel in nine hours to here, or they will destroy the
  ship.  (YES)
Starbase 121 : Geordi recommends that Picard head for here for a complete
  systems and bio-decontamination, to rid the Enterprise of invidium.  (HOL)
Starbase 123 : It detects two Romulan D'daridex class cruisers en route to Beta
  Stromgren.  (TIN)
Starbase 133 : The Enterprise makes way for here after leaving Rana IV.  (SUR)
Starbase 152 : The Enterprise heads for here for inspection and additional
  repairs following its ordeal at Beta Stromgren.  (TIN)
Starbase 157 : Where the USS Lalo's distress signal was received.  (BBW)
Starbase 343 : The Enterprise travels here after the Gatherer treaty.  Picard
  offers shore leave to the crew here -- including Riker.  (VFA)
Starbase 324 : Admiral Hanson returns here to discuss strategy with Starfleet
  Command against the Borg threat.  (BBW)
Station Salem One : History may remember Galorndon Core along with this inci-
  dent and Pearl Harbor as a preamble for war.  (ENE)
System J-25 : Where the Enterprise originally encountered the Borg ("Q Who,"
  last season), 7000 light years away.  The incident on Jouret Four is iden-
  tical.  (BBW)
Tanuga Four : Location of the Tanuga Research Station.  Its people are human,
  with slightly varied facial features.  Their system holds that a man is guil-
  ty until proven innocent.  (MPR)
Tanuga Research Station : A Regula-type facility orbiting Tanuga Four, the re-
  actor core of which mysteriously explodes when Riker beams to the Enterprise,
  leaving Dr. Nel Apgar the only casualty.  (MPR)
Tau Cygna V : Located in the Delor Belt, settled accidentally by the crew of 
  the colony ship Artemis.  Large concentrations of hyperonic radiation bombard
  it.  The planet itself is ceded to the Sheliak Corporate, and it is for rea-
  sons of evacuation that Data is sent down, to meet some unwilling natives --
  15,253 in all.  The evacuation will take 4 weeks and 4 days with only the
  Enterprise, though a colony ship from Starfleet is enroute.  When Data tries
  to talk them into leaving, 10 refuse to believe the threat, 22 prefer stay-
  ing and fighting, 16 want negotiation and/or passive resistance, and only 8
  were willing to evacuate.  (ENS)
Triangulum System : A group of renegade Andorians once hid their vessel here
  by dismantling it.  (SUR)
Utopia Planitia : The shipyards where the Enterprise was constructed, in orbit
  about the planet Mars.  Geordi recreates Drafting Room 5 from Stardate 40174
  in holodeck three.  (BTR)
Vulcan : Home planet of the Vulcans, and a founding member of the Federation.
  The Enterprise comes here to take aboard Ambassador Sarek for his trip to
  Legara Four.  (SAR)
Wolf-359 : Local star to the Terran system, where Starfleet prepares to make
  its stand against the Borg.  (BBW)
Xanthras System : The Enterprise departs here for a rendezvous with the USS
  Zapata following the retrieval of Riker and the Trois.  (MEN)
Zalkon : Homeworld of John Doe.  It is located in the Zeta Gelis Cluster,
  beyond several pulsars and G-type stars.  It is inhabited by the Zalkonians,
  a race of fascists.  (TRA)
Zeta Alpha Two : The USS Lalo left here for Sentinal Minor Four, but it was
  attacked by the Borg.  (BBW)
Zeta Gelis Cluster : The Enterprise is charting an unknown star system here
  when it comes across John Doe's crashed spaceship.  (TRA)
Zibalia : Homeworld of trader Kivas Fajo.  He lies to Data, telling him that
  he spent his wasted youth on the streets of Zibalia.  (TOY)
Zytchin Three : Picard told Beverly he loved the four days he spent here, but
  he insists he lied.  (CAP)

==== STARSHIP INDEX ===========================================================
Adelphi, USS : Captained by Darson, who lost his life in the Ghorusda Disaster.
  (TIN)
Angosian Transport : Captured by Roga Danar and used to escape Lunar Five.  He
  separates the vessel and hides over the pole of Angosia to escape.  Later,
  another transport is used by Wagnor to take Danar back to Lunar Five.  (HUN)
Artemis, SS : A colony ship launched 92 years ago to Septimis Minor.  Its gui-
  dance systems failed and it ended up on Tau Cygna V, whose grandchildren and
  great grandchildren populate the planet -- 15,253 in all.  (ENS)
Borg Vessels : A spectre of a Borg ship appears on the Enterprise's screen, due
  to a computer malfunction caused by the nanites.  (EVO)  A real one, cube-
  shaped, and bearing the same dimensions as the one that attacked the Enter-
  prise at System J-25, destroys the USS Lalo and heads for Earth.  The Borg
  wish to have Captain Picard as their spokesmind.  (BBW)
Bradbury, USS : Starfleet ship that Wesley is to join to go to the Academy; he
  misses it when he realizes that the signal patterns being received are Algo-
  lian Ceremonial Rhythms sent by Riker.  (MEN)
Cleponji : A Promellian battlecruiser from a millenium ago, under the command
  of Galek Dar.  It was trapped by a Menthar booby trap -- Aceton assimilators,
  devices that draw power from a vessel and bombard it with radiation.  It  
  was powered by Lang-cycle fusion engines and was found by the Enterprise at
  coordinates 211 mark 61, in the debris of the destroyed Orelious Nine.  (BTR)
Colony Ship : A vessel from Starfleet with a large concentration of personnel
  shuttles.  It will arrive within weeks at Tau Cygna to evacuate all life so
  that, according to the Treaty of Armens, the Sheliak can settle there.  (ENS)
El-Baz : Enterprise shuttlepod five; John tries to commandeer it in order to
  escape from the ship.  (TRA)
Enterprise-C, USS : The NCC-1701-C, an Ambassador-class starship last seen at
  the Klingon outpost Narendra Three 22 years, three months and four days
  before, commanded by Captain Rachel Garrett.  Its maneuverability is better
  than its Romulan counterparts of its time, a fact that becomes necessary in
  its ultimate destiny to restore the timelines.  The Enterprise was attacked
  at Narendra Three by Romulan warships, and was rescued only by misfortune by
  falling through the temporal rift into the future.  125 survived the Narendra
  battle, out of seven hundred.  The Enterprise-C escaped into the future, and
  was found by the Enterprise-D.  After repairs were completed, and after 
  Captain Garrett's death, it was led by Lieutenant Castillo and Tasha Yar
  back to the Narendra Three battle, where it presumably was destroyed -- but
  the act of sacrifice evidentally impressed the Federation's good will onto
  the Klingons, who subsequently allied with the Federation and prevented the
  war depicted in the alternate timeline.  (YES)
Enterprise, USS : NCC-1701-D, the Federation's flagship (SAR).  In the altered
  timeline she was a battleship; according to Tasha, the first Galaxy Class
  warship built, 42 decks, capable of transporting over 6,000 troops.  (YES)
Escape Pod : A spacecraft used by John Doe to escape from the Zalkonians, a
  small, one-man pod.  It is from a larger vessel that was destroyed in orbit
  around the planet he crashes on, in the Zeta Gelis cluster.  The ship con-
  tained four rebel escapees from Zalkon.  (TRA)
Ferengi Ships : The Krayton, commanded by Tog (MEN), plus the one that trans-
  ported DaiMon Goss to Barzan, though unseen (PRI).
Ferengi Cargo Ship : Geordi comments that Brahms' strategy will explode the
  Enterprise like one.  (BTR)
Ferengi Pod : Stranded in Delta Quadrant because of the pigheadedness of Kol
  and Dr. Arridor.  (PRI)
Gatherer Ship : Located within a distant asteroid belt, it is here that Picard
  brings Brull and Marouk to meet with Chorgon.  (VFA)
Goddard, USS : Ship that Enterprise was to rendezvous with; the meeting is de-
  layed.  (VFA)
Grissom, USS : Federation ship nearest to the Sigma Erani System, but it is
  still three weeks away and unable to help the Enterprise obtain more hytri-
  tium.  (TOY)
Hood, USS : Excelsior-class Starfleet vessel, commanded by Captain Robert
  DeSoto.  Riker served aboard this vessel before joining the Enterprise.
  The Hood transports Tam Elbrun to the Enterprise.  (TIN)  Admiral Haden
  informs Picard it is en route to the Neutral Zone, but will arrive too late
  to help him.  (DEF)  Enterprise is supposed to rendezvous with her to aid
  in terraforming efforts at Browder IV, but is delayed by the false Picard.
  (ALL)
Husnock Vessel : A massive ship roughly five times the mass of the Enterprise
  and carrying enough armament to pulverize a planet.  It fires jacketed
  streams of positrons and antiprotons, equivalent firepower of forty mega-
  watts.  In actuality, the ship doesn't exist; it is a spectre created by
  Kevin Uxbridge to warn the Enterprise off Rana IV, which is first docile,
  then fierce, and finally open to attack...all clues to Picard.  (SUR)
Intrepid, USS : The first ship on the scene after the Khitomer Massacre, whose
  crew evidentally found Worf and Kahlest.  When Data accesses its logs from
  after the massacre, he realizes that they do not synchronise with those of
  the Romulan ship recently captured by the Klingons, suggesting that someone
  has tampered with the Klingon databases.  (SIN)
Jovis : Ship belonging to the Zibalian trader, Kivas Fajo.  The Enterprise
  rendezvouses with it to pick up a supply of hytritium.  Its doors are keyed
  to galvanic skin response and DNA patterns.  It has a maximum speed of warp
  three.  (TOY)
Klingon Ships : Three Klingon Birds of Prey materialize to back the Enterprise
  up when it is faced with almost certain defeat at the hands of Tomalak at
  the Neutral Zone.  (DEF)  Klingon Birds of Prey also attack the alternate
  Enterprise-D in the other timeline, of K'vort class design.  (YES)
Krayton : Ferengi vessel captained by Tog.  (MEN)
K'vort-Class Battlecruisers : Klingon birds of prey vessels, three of them,
  that attack the Enterprise-D.  (YES)
Lalo, USS : Federation freighter attacked by the Borg between Zeta Alpha Two
  and Sentinel Minor Four.  It departed at 1900 hours; a distress signal was
  received at Starbase 157 at 2200 hours and 12 minutes.  It reported contact
  with a cube-shaped alien vessel, and the distress signal ended; she has not
  been heard from since.  (BBW)
Melbourne, USS : Starship offered to Riker, the third made by Starfleet.  (BBW)
Merrimac, USS : Ship that arrives at Legara Four to take Sarek, Perrin and
  their party back to Vulcan.  (SAR)
Monitor, USS : Starfleet vessel that Admiral Haden informs Picard is en route
  to the Neutral Zone, but will arrive too late to help him.  (DEF)
Onizuka : Enterprise shuttlepod #5 (discrepancy - shuttlepod #5 is named El-
  Baz).  Data uses it to travel to Tau Cygna V.  Named for Ellison Onizuka,
  late of the American Space Shuttle, Challenger.  (ENS)
Pagh : Klingon ship that Riker visited as an Exchange officer; in return for
  the visit, Kurn was assigned to the Enterprise.  (SIN; originally in "A
  Matter of Honor")
Pike : Enterprise shuttlepod that explodes, supposedly with Data aboard.  It
  is actually sabotaged.  The Pike is shuttlepod 12.  Named for Captain Chris-
  topher Pike.  (TOY)
Romulan Scout Ships : A crashed Romulan ship is located on Galorndon Core, with
  two survivors.  It was destroyed with ultritium, after it crashed.  (ENE)
  A small vessel commandeered by Admiral Jarok, who subsequently poses as Sub-
  lieutenant Setal in order to defect to the Federation, makes it to the Enter-
  prise.  The vessel is destroyed, seemingly by accident - though Picard is
  suspicious.  (DEF)
Romulan Warbirds : A Romulan vessel commanded by Tomalak passes through the
  Neutral Zone and goes to Galorndon Core, in an attempt to win the freedom
  of his missing man.  (ENE)  A vessel commanded by Tomalak that pursues the
  Romulan scout ship commandeered by Admiral Jarok across the Neutral Zone
  into Federation space.  Later, Jarok warns that a fleet of Romulan warbirds
  will be within striking distance of 15 Federation sectors in two days.  
  Jarok calls them, "Romulan B-Type Warbirds".  (DEF)  Four of them attacked
  Narendra Three and leveled the colony there.  The Enterprise-C escaped 
  through time, but presumably came back and was destroyed, after it was able
  to notify Starfleet, preventing the war with the Klingons.  (YES)  Two
  D'daridex class cruisers are detected by Starbase 123 en route to Beta
  Stromgren.  One is destroyed, the other is thrown out into space.  Both 
  expend a massive amount of power on their one-way missions, which allow them
  to be detected even in cloak.  (TIN)
Sheliak Vessel : Picard stops it en route to Tau Cygna.  The director of the
  ship eventually gives into Picard's demand of halting three weeks due to a
  provision in the Treaty of Armens.  (ENS)
Shuttles, Enterprise : Include the El-Baz (TRA), Onizuka (ENS) and Pike (TOY).
  The El-Baz is Shuttle Five; the Onizuka is incorrectly labeled five as well.
  Q takes Shuttle One to escape the Enterprise (DEQ).  Geordi and Data use
  Shuttle Nine to study the Barzan Wormhole; it is almost stranded in the
  Delta Quadrant (PRI).
Stargazer, USS : While commanding the ship, 12 years ago, Picard visited the
  planet Chalna.  (ALL)
Vortis : Klingon vessel that contacts the Enterprise; Worf takes the call.  It
  actually calls a cloaked battleforce to aid the Enterprise.  (DEF)
Zalkonian Ship : Equivalent in armament, speed and maneuverability to the 
  Enterprise.  (TRA)
Zapata, USS : Starfleet ship the Enterprise is assigned to rendezvous with
  after departing Betazed.  (MEN)
Zhukov, USS : Commanded by Captain Gleason, Barclay's last ship.  His rating
  aboard her was satisfactory.  (HOL)

==== CHARACTER INDEX ==========================================================
Ajur [Karen Landry] : One of the two Vorgon security agents from the 27th
  Century.  She is actually a criminal who, together with her partner, tried to
  steal the Tox-Uthat originally, and want to do so again on Risa.  (CAP)
Aliens [Jeff and Jerry Rector] : Kidnappers of Picard, Tholl and Esoqq who
  set up a laboratory experiment - a holding bay - and replace Picard with
  a duplicate on the Enterprise.  Their people do not understand the concepts
  of authority and leadership, and despise captivity.  (ALL)
Amanda : First human wife of Sarek, referred to in the past tense - she has
  obviously long since died.  Sarek regrets never being able to tell her that
  he loved her.  Played in the original series by Jane Wyatt.  (SAR)
Apgar, Dr. Nel [Mark Margolis] : Tanugan scientist and creator of an operatio-
  nal Krieger wave converter, which he was going to sell to the highest bidder.
  When Riker became suspicious of him, he tried to kill him, but instead, des-
  troyed the space station with himself aboard.  Jealous and possessive; has
  a wife, Manua.  (MPR)
Apgar, Manua [Gina Hecht] : Dr. Nel Apgar's wife, a beautiful Tanugan woman.
  Her explanation and Riker's of the situations leading up to the explosion of
  the Tanugan station differ because of their point of view; she believes Riker
  tried to rape her, while he thinks the opposite.  (MPR)
Arridor, Dr. [Dan Shor] : Ferengi scientist who takes a shuttlecraft into the
  Wormhole and is essentially trapped there when the other side shifts loca-
  tion.  Arridor also helps Goss poison Mendoza.  (PRI)
Aster, Jeremy [Gabriel Damon] : Twelve year old whose mother, Marla Aster, is
  killed on an away mission commanded by Worf.  His father died five years ago
  of a Verustin infection, and now he is alone.  Once had a cat named Patches.
  Jeremy is told of his mother's death by Picard, but remains brave about it
  until he is confronted with a Koinonian spectre of Marla, come to take him
  back to the planet and raise him.  Jeremy must ultimately deal with his anger
  toward Worf in order to get over the incident; he joins Worf in the R'uustai,
  the Bonding, and they become brothers.  His only living relatives after are
  an aunt and uncle, living on Earth.  (BON)
Aster, Lieutenant Marla [Susan Powell] : Enterprise Archaeologist who dies on
  the planet Koinonia when an ancient bomb goes off, killing her instantly.
  She is recreated by the energy-based Koinonians, in an effort to save Jeremy
  Aster, her son, from the pain of her death.  Her husband died five years
  ago of a Verustin infection.  The Koinonian created Marla eventually realizes
  that she cannot help Jeremy as much as his own people can, and leaves him to
  deal with his grief with them.  (BON)
Ballard, Lieutenant [Judyann Elder] : Teacher on the Enterprise who informs
  Data that Lal isn't getting along well in school.  (OFF)
Barclay, Lt. Endicott Reginald the Third [Dwight Schultz] : Better known as
  "Reg", or called "Broccoli" by his peers.  An introvert who suffers from
  "holodiction", recreating people he knows on the holodeck to escape from
  reality.  Served on the Zhukov under Captain Gleason, where he got favorable
  marks.  He is a gifted diagnostic engineer, skills that prove helpful when
  the Enterprise is plagued by subatomic disintegrations.  His seclusive ten-
  dencies were noted at the Academy more than once.  When in Ten-Forward, he
  always orders a warm milk, and Guinan leaves him alone to his imagination.
  He is a self-taught swordsman, challenging the holodeck Picard.  Barclay is
  the kind of guy who writes down things to say at a party, and tries to look
  comfortable examining a potted plant.   (HOL)
Barrett, Lt. : An officer on the Enterprise-D, ordered on the intercom to re-
  port to the communications section.  (YES)
Barron, Dr. [James Greene] : Chief Scientist of the Mintakan Anthropological
  Station.  He is the only one inside the station who survives the explosion,
  and goes to the Enterprise to aid in the search for the missing Palmer. (WHO)
Bates, Brother John [S.A. Templeton] : A character from the Henry V simulation
  that Data undertakes.  (DEF)
Bennett, Ensign : Conn officer following the trip to Gemaris.  (CAP)
Bhavani, Premier [Elizabeth Hoffman] : The planetary leader of Barzan II, she
  is granted use of the Enterprise in the mediation of the rights to the Bar-
  zan Wormhole.  (PRI)
Bochra [John Snyder] : Romulan Centurion, a crash survivor on Galorndon Core,
  who avoids capture by the Enterprise crew and instead finds a wounded Geordi.
  Geordi calls him "Commodore".  Bochra is unwilling to trust Geordi, and the
  feeling is mutual, until their continued survival depends on it.  Bochra
  becomes Geordi's eyes to alter the VISOR to be a neutrino geiger counter,
  and the two make it to Wesley's neutrino beacon and back to the ship.  (ENE)
Boratis [Michael Champion] : One of the two Vorgon security agents from the
  27th Century.  He and his partner, Ajur, are really criminals, who tried to
  steal the Tox-Uthat, then locate it in the 24th century on Risa.  (CAP)
Boy [Christopher Pettiet] : Ansata separatist, barely twelve years old, who
  regardless knows how to handle a weapon.  Beverly tells him he could be a
  doctor when he grows up....if he grows up.  (HGR)
Brahms, Dr. Leah [Susan Gibney] : Propulsion engineer, graduate of the Daystrom
  Institute Theoretical Propulsion Group, Galaxy Class Starships, Team 7, Ju-
  nior Member.  According to Geordi, she "wrote the book" on Enterprise propul-
  sion.  She attended the Chia Seven caucuses.  Geordi has the computer instill
  her with a personality in a hologrammatic recreation in an effort to have her
  assist him in breaking free of the Menthar booby trap.  Her personality pro-
  file analysis was registered with Starfleet on Stardate 40056.  (BTR)
Branagh, Kenneth : Contemporary actor/director that Data plans to study in
  order to better understand the role.  (DEF)
Bron-ken, Trenka : Concert violinist whose style is blended with Heifetz'
  by Data when he performs.  (ENS)
Brull [Joey Aresco] : Leader of the Gatherer encampment on Gamma Hromi II, he
  accepts Marouk's offer of negotiation and leads her to Chorgon.  Has two sons
  one Wes' age not as good at math; he wants them to have a better life.  (VFA)
Castillo, Lieutenant Richard [Christopher MacDonald] : Helmsman of the USS
  Enterprise, NCC-1701-C.   A large, commanding yet compassionate man, who 
  develops a crush on Tasha Yar, he becomes Garrett's liaison to the Enter-
  prise-D.  Most everyone calls his Castillo, but his mother - and Tasha -
  call him Richard.  When Garrett dies, he is the senior officer on the Enter-
  prise-C, and leads her back through the temporal rift to the Narendra Three
  battle, where he presumably dies with Tasha and the rest of the crew.  (YES)
Chorgon [Stephen Lee] : Leader of the Gatherer Tribes and a member of the Lor-
  nack clan. Marouk has Brull lead her to him to propose amnesty for the Gathe-
  rers, but he is almost killed by Yuta in a blood feud which he knows nothing
  about.  He wants the Gatherers to have autonomy.  (VFA)
Christy : -see- Henshaw, Christy
Costa : One of Geordi's diagnostic engineers, who aids Duffy.  (HOL)
Crewmember [Randal Patrick] : He helps launch Stubbs' "egg".  (EVO)
Crusher, Dr. Beverly [Gates McFadden] : Chief Medical Officer, USS Enterprise.
  She was at Starfleet Medical for a year; she missed about two inches of
  Wesley's growth.  According to Stubbs, the Crushers are a 'dynamic family
  team'.  At age 17 she was getting into trouble, moreso than Wesley.  She
  hopes for his success with friends and girls, but when it's actually upon
  him, she questions Guinan's knowledge of the girl he chooses (EVO).  She and
  Picard attend a concert given by Data and O'Brien (ENS) and she accompanies
  the Rana IV landing party (SUR).  She is familiar with Pulaski's mind erasure
  technique.  She tries to save Liko by bringing him up to the Enterprise, a
  big mistake (WHO).  She is unable to save Marla, which affects her deeply,
  thinking about Jack; she can't get Jack's face out of her mind sometimes
  (BON).  She tries to save Patakh by convincing Worf to donate ribosomes, but
  fails at both (ENE).  She and Troi do aerobics together, where she says that
  she fell in love in a day and it lasted a week; then she met Jack, and it
  took months to figure that out (PRI).  She correctly pronounces Volnoth's
  death a murder (VFA).  She knows something of Romulan medicine, notes Jarok,
  thanks to the Galorndon Core incident (DEF).  She is kidnapped by the Ansata
  and aids them medically, helping comfort those afflicted by the Dimensional
  Shifters.  She and Picard are able to escape with Riker's help.  Her origins
  are North American (HGR).  Q notes that she is "back into exile".  (DEQ)
  Data thinks of her as a successful parent.  When Wesley had problems in
  adolescence, she had to go back into her own childhood and remember how
  painful not being popular was for her too (OFF).  Picard has her look over
  medical records of the Khitomer Massacre; she is able to locate Kahlest, a
  second survivor (SIN).  She dines with the false Picard, dances intimately
  with him and then is kicked out.  She does note, however, that she wants
  their relationship to stay platonic (ALL).  She tries to get Picard to go
  on vacation, telling him that once he's there he has a marvelous time (CAP).
  In Barclay's holodeck projection she is a fair young maiden who caresses him
  when he sleeps (HOL).  She and Worf deduce the problem on Beta Agni Two as
  a deliberate sabotage (TOY).  She comforts Picard when he undergoes a mind
  meld, and diagnoses Sarek with Bendii Syndrome.  She has never hit Wesley
  in her life, until she slaps him while undergoing Sarek's emotional distress
  (SAR).  She and Wesley share dinner together, where she confesses she is
  taken with John (TRA).  When Picard is captured, she joins the rescue party
  and is unable to save him.  She tries to get Riker to keep from firing the
  weapon until she can get Picard back (BBW).  A dedicated professional, 
  mother of Wesley Crusher.
Crusher, Jack : Beverly notes that sometimes she finds it hard to forget his
  face, while Wesley sometimes has problems remembering it.  Wesley originally
  felt anger at Picard because he was in charge of the mission on which Jack
  died.  (BON)  It took months for Beverly to figure out her relationship with
  him.  (PRI)
Crusher, Wesley [Wil Wheaton] : Acting Ensign, USS Enterprise, later Ensign.
  He uses the nanites in a science project, but two of them escape.  He is
  on the Enterprise earning credits whilst trying to get into the Academy.
  Picard says he's his father's son.  Stubbs finds an awful lot of himself
  in Wesley, at his young age (EVO).  He is frightened when thinking that
  he sometimes cannot remember his father's face.  The last memory he has
  of Jack is hugging him goodbye; he took Jack's death well, although he was
  not prepared for the loss (BON).  He sends down a neutrino beacon to help
  Geordi escape from Galorndon Core (ENE).  He does a lot of math, which is
  amusing to Brull (VFA).  He is worried about his mother's capture (HGR).
  Wesley is already an Ensign in the alternate timeline, complete with a real
  uniform (YES).  He had a hard time making friends as a boy (OFF).  He doesn't
  think Kurn likes him (SIN).  He made up the name "Broccoli" for Barclay.  In
  Barclay's holodeck program he is a blueberry-pie-eating Blue Boy (HOL).
  He and Geordi clear out Data's quarters (TOY).  Wesley makes a date with
  Suzanne Dumont (SAR).  His entrance exam scores for the Academy arrive, and
  he is admitted, but he misses the USS Bradbury and his chance to get there.
  Picard makes him a full ensign because of his devotion to duty (MEN).  He
  chides his mother on her attraction to John Doe (TRA) and aids Geordi in
  the construction of the deflector weapon to defeat the Borg (BBW).
Custer, George Armstrong : Historic figure that Riker seems to echo; Picard
  compares their Neutral Zone situation to Custer's arrival with his Seventh
  Cavalry at Little Big Horn.  (DEF)
Dali, Salvador : Kivas Fajo owns a rare Dali painting.  (TOY)
D'Amato, Ensign : An officer that is put on report by Worf for insubordination,
  the first clue to Picard that something is strangely wrong with Sarek's
  visit to the ship.  (SAR)
Danar, Roga [Jeff McCarthy] : Angosian veteran of the Tarsian War, who with his
  fellows was imprisoned on Lunar Five after being psychologically altered to
  fight.  He escapes from Lunar Five in a shuttle after killing two guards, is
  captured by the Enterprise and then escapes to lead a revolution.  He has
  no police record.  He lies to Troi about how a girl with long dark hair once
  broke his heart, and then another about how his mother abandoned him....but
  Troi finds him very non-violent, leading the Enterprise to its answer.  He
  served many campaigns of the Tarsian War, received two promotions to the
  rank of Subhadar.  He has killed 84 times, and remembers each face.  (HUN)
Dano, Kal : A scientist of the twenty-seventh century who invented the Tox
  Uthat.  He fled to the twenty-second century to keep it from falling into
  Vorgon hands, and died there after hiding it on Risa.  (CAP)
Dar, Galek : -see- Sar, Galek
Darson, Captain : Captain of the Adelphi, who lost his life in the Ghorusda
  Disaster.  The Starfleet Board of Inquiry blamed him for his carelessness
  about Ghorusdan cultural taboos.  Tam Elbrun insists that if Darson had lis-
  tened to him he wouldn't have died.  (TIN)
Data, Lieutenant Commander [Brent Spiner] : Second Officer, USS Enterprise,
  the ship's Operations officer, an android.  He is able to function as a con-
  duit for the nanites; they can penetrate the molecular fabric of his "skin"
  into his nerve circuitry when he provides them with a schematic design of
  his neurological structure (EVO).  He and O'Brien and two others give a con-
  cert performance, where he shows off his violinistry.  He tries to evacuate
  the Tau Cygnans and almost meets his own demise.  His mind, he tells Ard'rian
  MacKenzie, is based upon positronic operation (ENS).  He memorizes the Rana
  IV colony register on the way to the planet.  While there, he picks up a
  music box, which subsequently affects Troi (SUR).  He doesn't understand why
  familiarity has a bearing on human judgment of death (BON).  He was never a
  boy, so he didn't play with ships in bottles (BTR).  He and Geordi explore
  the Barzan Wormhole, later realized a dry well (PRI).  He tries to show Jarok
  a copy of Romulus on the holodeck, but Jarok isn't impressed.  Picard at-
  tempts to direct him in Henry V on the same holodeck, and is impressed with
  Data's work, although Data is only copying the styles of Olivier, Branagh,
  Shapiro and Kullnark (DEF).  He is not a robot, but an android, he explains
  to Q; later, he risks his own "life" to save Q and is almost deactivated.
  Q calls him his "humanities instructor" and teaches Q a lot about human sac-
  rifice; Q notes that Data is a better human than he will ever be.  He some-
  times consumes a semi-organic nutrient suspension in a silicon-based liquid
  medium.  As a gift for his troubles, Q allows Data to laugh, however briefly
  (DEQ).  He reprograms the holodeck to represent the Tanuga Research Station
  (MPR).  He goes to a cybernetics conference, and brings knowledge of how to
  construct an offspring back.  He creates Lal, but when Lal malfunctions, he
  transfers her consciousness into his own (OFF).  Picard has him look through
  the Khitomer records from the Intrepid, where he finds discrepancies in the
  respective accounts of the battle (SIN).  He is the ship's resident student
  in exobiology; Picard assigns him to Life Sciences on the Tin Man mission.
  Tam's impression of Data - restful - is unique, notes Troi; he tells Data
  that he is uniquely qualified to research humanity because he is objective.
  Tam calls his quarters spartan.  He realizes he belongs on the Enterprise
  (TIN).  In Barclay's holodeck program he is one of the Musketeers (HOL).
  His shuttlecraft explodes while he is transferring hytritium back to the
  Enterprise.  He is composed of 24.6 kilos of tripolymer composites, 11.8
  kilos of molybdenum-cobalt alloys, 1.3 kilos of Bioplast sheeting, and other
  minor elements.  Among his most prized possessions are his playing cards
  and poker chips, a leather-bound book given him by Picard, and his hologram
  of Tasha Yar.  He holds a 'fundamental respect for all living beings' (TOY).
  He has been programmed to reproduce the individual musical styles of over
  three hundred concert violinists, including Heifetz, Menuhin, Grak-tay and
  Tataglia (SAR).  He is on the away team that tries to rescue Picard from
  the Borg vessel, but they are unsuccessful (BBW).  Among his favorite past-
  times are violinistry, playing cards and painting.
Devos, Alexana [Kerrie Keane] : Director of Police on Rutia, fighting the An-
  sata separatists.  She is gentler than her predecessors, who were all mur-
  dered.  She tacitly supported the Ansata's right to independence until she
  became police chief and saw sixty children destroyed in a shuttlebus bombing.
  She is a gentle woman by nature, who would rather be back in her own country
  living life instead of killing.  (HGR)
Doe, John [Mark LaMura] : A crash survivor, originally stricken with amnesia.
  He is actually a Zalkonian, the first one to successfully transform himself
  into the next stage in their evolution, noncorporeal beings.  He is a kind,
  sympathetic man, drawn to Beverly Crusher.  His cells are mutating, and he
  possesses incredible restorative powers; his major organ systems regenerate
  in only 36 hours.  He then suffers several attacks of pain, "energy pulses"
  that ultimately lead the Enterprise into danger.  His transfiguration is
  a success, and he leaves the Enterprise, returning home.  (TRA)
Duffy [Charley Lang] : One of Geordi's top engineers, who aids him in trying to
  determine why the strange atomic damage is being done to the ship.  One of
  the side effects of the invidium leak is his glass melting, caused by the
  substance being on his hands.  (HOL)
Dumont, Ensign Suzanne : Wesley arranges a date with her, which Geordi, in a
  heated frenzy (from Sarek's mental collapse), tells him will fail.  (SAR)
Duras [Patrick Massett] : The son of Worf's father's greatest rival, who now
  sits on the Klingon High Council.  He believes Worf has come to claim a
  birthright he has foresaken, yet Worf retaliates.  He later attacks Kurn,
  knowing who he really is, and almost kills him.  His father Ja'rod is the
  real traitor in the Khitomer Massacre, but knowledge of this would destroy
  the Empire, and so Worf's father is framed.  Duras is eventually figured out
  by Worf, who gets the chance to belt him.  (SIN)
Elbrun, Tam [Harry Groener] : The Federation's foremost specialist in first
  contact with new life forms, a Betazoid telepath of extraordinary talent.
  Troi first met him when they were at the university on Betazed....she a stu-
  dent, and he, a patient.  Riker feels hostile toward him because friends of
  his died in the Ghorusda Disaster, which Tam Elbrun was involved in; he
  failed to warn Darson enough and a terrible loss of life ensued, but insists
  that if Darson had listened to him he wouldn't have died.  Very high on the
  ESP scale according to medical records and his psych profile; he's a sort of
  prodigy, having developed his telepathic gifts at an early age, which almost
  drove him mad.  Hospitalized repeatedly for stress.  He was last the only 
  Federation delegate on Chandra Five.  (TIN)
Elway : -see- Elway Theorem (in Subject Guide)
Esoqq [Reiner Schone] : A Chalnoth warrior, captured by the aliens who kidnap
  Picard, Tholl and Haro.  His name means "fighter" in Chalnoth, and he char-
  ges that all Mizarian names mean "surrenderer".  He cannot eat the food disk
  that his captors have provided, and can only go three days, maybe four, with-
  out food.  (ALL)
Estragon, Professor Samuel : A legendary archaeologist who spent half his life
  searching for the Tox-Uthat; Vash served as his personal assistant, or so
  she claims for the last five years of his life.  He pinpointed the Tox-Uthat
  as being on Risa, but died before he had the chance to find it.  (CAP)
Fajo, Father : Kivas Fajo's father, who was a thief, quite wealthy.  (TOY)
Fajo, Kivas [Saul Rubinek] : A Zibalian trader of the Stacius Guild and master
  of the spacecraft Jovis.  He is a noted collector of rare and valuable ob-
  jects, with no concern but himself or his collection.  Educated on Iraatan
  Five, his father was a wealthy thief.  He lies to Data, saying he spent his
  wasted youth on the streets of Zibalia.  He decides to add the android to his
  collection and sabotages the water supply of Beta Agni Two in order to get
  the Enterprise to rendezvous with him.  He kills Varria, and is eventually
  arrested for murder, theft and kidnapping, and robbed of everything he has
  ever held dear.  (TOY)
Farek, Dr. [Ethan Phillips] : Doctor on the Ferengi vessel Krayton, he is dis-
  trustful of Lwaxana Troi and scorns Tog for falling into her spell.  (MEN)
Fento [John McLiam] : Mintakan wise man who questions Liko's insistance that
  he was captured by "the Picard".  He is later tied up by Riker, who escapes
  with Palmer.  (WHO)
Finn, Kyril [Richard Cox] : Leader of the Ansata terrorists fighting the Rutian
  police.  Actually an artist, he orders the kidnapping of Beverly Crusher to
  aid him in healing those afflicted by the Dimensional Shifters.  He had a
  son of thirteen who died in detention.  To take revenge on what he perceives
  as the Enterprise's aid to the Rutians, he orders the destruction of the 
  ship.  He is killed by Alexana Devos.  (HGR)
Foley, Lieutenant : He found Tog's pericules in the pond on Betazed, leading
  Picard to conclude that the three missing people were kidnapped.  (MEN)
Frankenstein : A doctor who once told Guinan (or so she claims) that his study
  was just a science project.  She compares Wesley's project to Frankenstein's
  work....including the fact that both of them always got an A.  (EVO)
Fredericks : An officer on the Enterprise-C.  (YES)
Garin, Dr. [Richard Cansino] : Leader of Bre'el Four's research team into sol-
  ving the mystery of the descending moon.  (DEQ)
Garrett, Captain Rachel [Tricia O'Neil] : Captain of the USS Enterprise, NCC-
  1701-C, a spunky woman with a commanding presence.  She commanded the ship
  when it fell through the temporal rift, and was rescued by the Enterprise-D.
  Found on the bridge, she was taken to sickbay, recovered and returned to lead
  her ship into battle....but was killed by a Klingon attack.  (YES)
Gleason, Captain : Commander of the USS Zhukov; he gave Barclay a high rating,
  but Riker wonders if he wasn't buttering Picard's bread a little.  (HOL)
Gosheven [Grainger Hines, uncredited] : Elected leader of Tau Cygna V, he is
  Data's strongest adversary when the latter tries to evacuate the population.
  Gosheven doesn't believe Data's prediction of certain death when the Sheliak
  arrive, but by a display of force, Gosheven is eventually convinced.  His 
  great-grandfather, buried on the mountain, died surveying the route for an
  aqueduct to bring water to the desert town.  (ENS)
Goss, DaiMon [Scott Thomson] : Ferengi leader who intrudes upon the Barzan ne-
  gotiations, poisons UFP representative Mendoza and then makes a deal with
  Devinoni Ral in order to trick Bhavani into giving him the deal.  He insults
  Worf by calling him a "servant" to get him some chairs, and offers a sum of
  gold bars in addition to matching any offer.  (PRI)
Grak-tay : Data has been programmed to reproduce his musical style.  (SAR)
Grax, Reittan [Rudolph Willrich] : Betazoid conference director in the Trade
  Agreements Conference.  He contacts Picard and informs him that Lwaxana,
  Deanna and Riker have been kidnapped.  Lwaxana's first husband and he were
  old friends, and he's known Deanna since she was a child.  (MEN)
Guinan [Whoopi Goldberg] : Hostess of the Ten-Forward Lounge, USS Enterprise.
  She has never been very good at being confined to quarters, a fact any of her
  husbands would testify to.  She has a lot of children, but has only had
  trouble relating to one of them....he wouldn't listen (EVO).  The first thing
  she looks at in a man is his head; she is attracted to bald men, because a
  bald man once took care of her (BTR).  She enjoys it when Q loses his powers
  and "tests" his humanity by driving a fork into his hand.  She also recog-
  nizes the Calamarain (DEQ).  She is the only one who recognizes the time
  distortion; her species has a perception, Data believes, that goes beyond
  linear time.  She and Picard have been together a long time; she and Tasha
  were never meant to know each other, which is obvious (YES).  She counsels
  Lal when the android is put under her tutelage (OFF).  She says that Barclay
  reminds her of Terkim, her mother's brother, who was the only one in her
  family with a sense of humor; she liked Terkim (HOL).  She becomes Picard's
  sounding board with his fears that the Enterprise - and humanity - might not
  survive the Borg threat (BBW).  (Seen in EVO,BTR,DEQ,YES,OFF,HOL,BBW)
Haden, Admiral [John Hancock] : A stocky command officer at the Starfleet 
  station on Lya Three.  He conveys to Picard the Romulan Empire's official
  protest regarding the asylum granted to Admiral Jarok, and gives Picard
  the time he needs to correctly deduce the situation.  (DEF)
Haftel, Admiral Anthony [Nicolas Coster] : Admiral serving at the Starfleet
  research facilities on Galor Four.  Haftel comes aboard the Enterprise to
  study Lal, and finally to take her away to Galor Four, but first Data and
  then Picard intervenes.  (OFF)
Hahn, Admiral : Picard contacts him at Starfleet Academy in regards to Wesley's
  failure to arrive.  (MEN)
Hali [James McIntyre] : A Mintakan hunter who finds Palmer.  Nuria later sends
  him after Riker.  (WHO)
Haki : Mintakan child who gives Picard a woven cloth as a gift.  (WHO)
Hanson, Admiral J.P. [George Murdock] : Starfleet Tactical officer, sent to
  the Enterprise with Shelby to ascertain the Borg threat.  He returns to
  Earth to plan its defense.  Riker says there's always a seat open for him at
  their poker games.  (BBW)
Haritath [Mark L. Taylor] : A supporter of Data and Ard'rian when the former 
  tries to evacuate the Tau Cygna V colony.  (ENS)
Haro, Mitena [Joycelyn O'Brien] : A young female Bolian Starfleet cadet kid-
  napped along with Tholl, Esoqq and Picard....or at least that is the way it
  seems.  Actually, she is a facsimile, an alien spy.  The real Mitena Haro
  has evidentally studied Picard's missions at the Academy, and her best area
  of study is impulse propulsion systems; she is very good with field coils.
  (ALL)
Heifetz, Jascha : Jewish concert violinist, born 2/2/1901 in Vilna, Russia.
  His style is blended with Trenka Bron-ken's by Data when he performs.  (ENS)
  Data informs Perrin he has been programmed to reproduce his style of violin
  playing.  (SAR)
Henshaw, Christy [Julie Warner] : A civilian woman on the Enterprise that
  Geordi tries to romance, to no avail.  (BTR)  Later, Geordi is able to ask
  her out because of his newfound courage, thanks to John Doe.  (TRA)
Homn, Mr. [Carel Struycken] : Lwaxana Troi's manservant.  She sends him to pick
  some uttaberries; when he returns, she, Deanna and Riker are gone.  (MEN)
Hoy, Ensign : Picard takes over the transporter controls to beam Nuria up from
  him.  (WHO)
Ja'rod : Duras' father, who was the real culprit behind the Khitomer Massacre.
  (SIN)
Jarok, Admiral Alidar [James Sloyan] : A Romulan defector to the Federation,
  who poses as Sublieutenant Setal in order to warn the Federation of a major
  Romulan battleforce organizing at Nelvana Three.  At first, as Setal, he
  insists he is a logistics clerk, which doesn't sit well with Worf - whom he
  says he likes, or at least, understands.  He is responsible for the Norkan
  Massacre, and defects to stop a war for the simple reason of parentage; he
  didn't want his baby girl to have to suffer.  He eventually ingests a
  felodesine chip, committing suicide.  (DEF)
Joval [Deirdre Imershein] : Employed by the Pleasure Haven on Risa, she is the
  fifth woman to bother Picard, and informs him of the true meaning of display-
  ing the Horga'hn.  (CAP)
Joyce, James : Author of "Ulysses".  (CAP)
Kahlest [Thelma Lee] : Worf's nurse a long time ago at the Khitomer Outpost,
  who was the only other survivor of the massacre there.  She had severe inju-
  ries and was brought to Starbase 24 for treatment before returning home to
  live in the Old Quarter of the Klingon First City.  She has been silent for
  a long time, but comes out of hiding to help Worf's family for the last time.
  She doesn't like K'mpec, thinks he's too fat.  (SIN)
Kentor [Richard Allen] : Handsome black man who is almost as popular as
  Gosheven on Tau Cygna V.  He is one of the supporters of Data.  (Originally
  Noe in first draft scripts).  (ENS)
Kim, Dr. Joshua : On the Enterprise-D, ordered on the loudspeaker to report to
  Cetacean Ops.  (YES)
K'mpec [Charles Cooper] : Leader of the Klingon High Council, who sits on the
  Klingon throne.  Worf makes his challenge against him.  K'mpec served with
  Mogh, and doesn't wish to remember him by the mek'ba that Worf undergoes.
  Kahlest once caught his eye, but she thinks he is too fat.  Eventually,
  K'mpec reveals he has hid the truth that Duras' father Ja'rod is the real
  traitor, to which Worf accedes discommendation to save the Empire.  (SIN)
Kol : The second of Goss' aides, after Arridor.  He is marooned with Arridor
  by the wormhole.  (PRI)
Krag, Inspector [Craig Richard Nelson] : Operative of the Tanugan Security
  Force, who beams over to the Enterprise to take Riker into custody for Dr.
  Apgar's murder.  Picard convinces him to stay and recreate the situations
  leading up to the explosion in the holodeck.  He is eventually convinced and
  returns home.  (MPR)
Kuda, Ving : Author of "Ethics, Sophistry and the Alternate Universe."  (CAP)
Kullnark : Data plans to study his portrayal of Henry V in order to understand
  the role better.  (DEF)
Kurn, Commander [Tony Todd] : Worf's younger brother, orphaned in the Khitomer
  Massacre and then taken to live with his father's friend Lorgh.  A brisk,
  callous Klingon man, who demands to be addressed as "Commander" or "Sir;
  he studies the service records of the Enterprise's bridge crew before joi-
  ning the ship.  He pulls a surprise inspection in the middle of a maintenance
  cycle, then makes Engineering pull double shifts to get ready for the next
  one.  He tells Riker to stop giving advice or he'll kill him, but also tells
  Geordi that he never kills anyone at the supper table.  He isn't used to
  eating cooked food - turkey - or caviar.  He believes that the Enterprise is
  too comfortable, relaxed and too at ease, not the ship of a warrior.  Kurn
  was barely a year old when Worf and their parents went to Khitomer.  He was
  raised as Lorgh's son and found out the truth at his Age of Ascension.  He
  becomes Worf's cha'DIch but is wounded by a kut'luch.  His metabolic rate
  of recovery is phenomenal, which saves his life after the injury.  Kurn
  returns to the homeworld to stand with Worf, but Worf chooses discommenda-
  tion, and in the hardest decision of his life, he must forsake his brother
  to one day continue to fight to restore his family's honor.  (SIN)
LaForge, Lieutenant Commander Geordi [LeVar Burton] : Chief of Engineering,
  USS Enterprise.  He is the one who discovers the nanite infestation (EVO), 
  and who is ordered to solve the problem of transporting through the hyper-
  onic radiation, although unsuccessful (ENS).  He joins the Rana IV away
  team (SUR) and goes down to Mintaka to aid the anthropological station by
  repairing their duck blind (WHO).  He locates the Koinonian bombs left behind
  (BON).  He can 'field strip a fusion reactor, realign a power transfer tunnel
  but can't strike up a successful relationship with a woman'.  He later
  realizes he can if he doesn't try as hard.  He strikes out originally with
  Christy Henshaw, but falls in love with the hologrammatic representation of
  engineer Leah Brahms (BTR).  He falls into a pit on Galorndon Core and misses
  the beam-out window, is captured by Bochra and forced to become a prisoner.
  The two eventually cooperate to reach Wesley's neutrino beacon; Bochra helps
  him repair his VISOR by acting as his eyes (ENE).  He and Data travel to the
  Gamma Quadrant, exploring the Barzan Wormhole (PRI).  He has to disconnect
  a bomb placed on the matter/antimatter core by the Ansata (HGR).  He is aided
  by Q trying to help Bre'el Four, and at one point is told to 'simply' change
  the gravitational constant of the universe (DEQ).  He discovers that the
  Tanuga Research Station reconstruction in the holodeck has also reproduced
  Dr. Apgar's Krieger wave generator (MPR).  Kurn pulls an inspection on his
  department, and has them up double shifts getting for the next one (SIN).
  His authorization is Theta 2997 (TIN).  Although he can barely tolerate
  Barclay, he is ordered to become his "best friend" to help him get over his
  seclusive tendencies.  In Barclay's holodeck projection, he is one of the 
  Musketeers; Barclay creates such characters because of what he perceives is
  Geordi's constant riding of him.  His defense of Barclay is that he's used
  the Holodeck too, and even fallen in love there, with Dr. Brahms.  (HOL)
  He refuses to give up on looking for Data's pilot error, and realizes by
  inference there was no lack of protocol...Data wasn't aboard the shuttle 
  (TOY).  He and Wesley make the Legaran tank in the conference room, where
  Wesley tells him he can only find his women on the holodeck (SAR).  Leaving
  for the Academy was one of the hardest things he ever had to do, but it was
  one of the best times of his life (MEN).  He tries it again with Christy
  Henshaw, given newfound courage by John Doe, and succeeds this time, because
  of his added confidence (TRA).  He is ordered to create a weapon by Riker
  to destroy the Borg battleship, and does so....with the deflector dish (BBW).
  A strong, handsome black man with a gentle heart, the kind of guy who has
  problems with women but would marry his car if he could.
Lal [Hallie Todd] : Data's "child", an android built after Data attends a cy-
  bernetics conference.  Lal is able to choose its own sex and appearance, 
  choosing to be a human girl (after accessing its data bank on sexuality, le-
  vel two, and choosing to be Troi) instead of a male, a Klingon or an Andori-
  an.  Lal's astonishment with many things, from the family unit to chairs
  and paintings, is wonderous, and Data is content with being her teacher in
  the subjects of logic, aesthetics, metaphysics and epistemology.  Data sends
  her to school on the Enterprise, but the other children are intimidated by
  her.  She was programmed with a listing of 1,412 known beverages, but even
  more impressive, she has developed the art of using contractions.  Lal is
  capable of running over 60 trillion calculations in a second.  Data sets her
  up under Guinan's tutelage in Ten-Forward, but soon she begins developing
  feelings compounded with the thought that she may have to be separated from
  Data....which ultimately result in a complete breakdown of her neural path-
  ways, at 1300 hours, after Data and Haftel fight vigorously to keep her
  alive.  Her name means "beloved" in Hindi.  /  Also played (uncredited) as
  a genderless being by Leonard John Crofoot.  (OFF)
Leger : Artist that Picard's work imitates, says Data.  (MPR)
Leyor [Kevin Peter Hall] : The Caldonian representative to the Barzan negotia-
  tions.  He withdraws from the proceedings when Ral convinces him that the
  Caldonians, a competitor of the Federation, do not have the administrative
  capabilities to successfully deal with the wormhole.  (PRI)
Liko [Ray Wise] : Mintakan citizen who first finds the anthropological station
  and is injured falling from it.  He is brought to the Enterprise, where
  Beverly tries erasing his mind.  The procedure fails, and he returns home to
  tell his people of "the Picard", their newest god.  He is eventually con-
  vinced by Picard and Nuria that they are mortal, just like the Mintakans,
  after Liko shoots Picard with an arrow.  He has a daughter, Oji, but his
  wife died in last year's floods - he asks Picard to bring her back.  (WHO)
Locutus : The cybernetically-altered Picard, made into one of their own by the
  Borg, so that he can be their spokesperson.  From Latin "elocutus", to speak.
  Picard/Locutus is on board the Borg ship when Riker gives the order to fire
  the main deflector weapon.  (BBW)
Lorgh : Friend of Worf's father, who took Kurn into his family when Worf's
  family was killed at Khitomer.  He told Kurn the truth when he reached the
  Age of Ascension.  (SIN)
Mackenzie, Ard'rian [Eileen Seeley] : A cyberneticist who lives on Tau Cygna V,
  she is one of the few who believes Data's prediction of death when the She-
  liak arrive to settle the planet.  In effect, she falls for the android.
  It is with Ard'rian's help that he is able to evacuate the colonists from the
  planet.  Gosheven calls her Ardy.  (ENS)
Mallon : Brull leaves him in charge on Hromi, giving him ten days of leeway
  before he is to take action.  (VFA)
Maris, Roger : -see- Trading Card, Roger Maris (in Subject Guide)
Marouk, Sovereign [Nancy Parsons] : Leader of Acamar Three, it is she who tries
  to reconcile her world with the Gatherers, with Picard's help.  Unbeknownst
  to her, her chef, Yuta, is on a blood feud.  (VFA)
Martinez : Enterprise medical officer, who beams up with Warren.  (WHO)
Mendrossen, Ki [William Denis] : Ambassador Sarek's Chief of Staff, a burly
  human man who keeps Sarek shielded from others so that they will not learn
  of his affliction.  He eventually even threatens Picard's career before
  he has to face up to the fact that Sarek is actually sick.  (SAR)
Mendoza, Seth [Castulo Guerra] : The Federation representative to the Barzan
  negotiations.  He has met Troi and Ral before.  Mendoza is poisoned by the
  DaiMon Goss' blood pyrocytes and Riker has to substitute for him.  (PRI)
Menuhin : Data has been programmed to reproduce his musical style.  (SAR)
Minan : A virotherapist whose work with radiation sensitivity determines that
  humans can indeed survive hyperonic radiation.  (ENS)
Mogh : Worf and Kurn's father, denounced by the Klingon High Command as a
  traitor, he actually went to Khitomer suspecting a Romulan spy, which turned
  out to be Duras' father Ja'rod.  Head of a very proud and honorable family in
  the Klingon Empire that is now all but destroyed.  According to Duras, Mogh
  sent the defense access code to the Romulan patrol ships and allowed them
  to destroy the outpost.  (SIN)
Mozart : The Ambassador is extremely fond of his music.  Data later performs
  a Mozart concert on the ship for him, which moves him....emotionally.  (SAR)
Musicians : A Vulcan violinist and a female violist join O'Brien on the cello
  and Data on a violin at a musical concert in Ten-Forward.  (ENS)
Myers : One of Geordi's diagnostic engineers; Wesley is assigned to him as part
  of his training schedule.  (HOL)
Napoleon : The Passive Lure Strategem is similar to a strategy of his, says
  Data, but he doesn't identify it.  (BTR)
Nayrok, Prime Minister [James Cromwell] : Leader of the planet Angosia.  He
  refuses to speak to the veterans of the Tarsian War until Picard forces him
  to do so by refusing to help.  (HUN)
Nibor [Peter Slutsker] : Ferengi whom Riker beats at chess at the closing
  ceremonies of the conference.  Later, aboard the Krayton, Riker has the
  chance to play him again, and uses it to escape.  (MEN)
Nuria [Kathryn Leigh Scott] : Leader of the Mintakan community that Troi and
  Riker visit, she is skeptical of "the Picard" until she is beamed up to the
  Enterprise.  Picard is able to convince her that he is mortal, and the two
  return to Mintaka.  An enlightened, sensible woman, who wishes no ill will on
  anyone.  (WHO)
Nurse [Mary McCusker] : She assists Beverly Crusher in sickbay.  (EVO)
O'Brien, Chief [Colm Meaney] : Transporter Chief, USS Enterprise.  He is a
  cellist, and performs in a quartet with Picard and Beverly as part of the
  audience.  He and Geordi try to solve the problem of the hyperonic radiation
  to no avail (ENS).  He tells Picard that he did construct ships in bottles
  as a child, which Riker disbelieves (BTR).  He finds thousands of ghosts
  in the transporter patterns on Galorndon Core, which Riker suggests beaming
  up a few; one might be Geordi (ENE).   He saves Riker's life by grabbing his
  transporter pattern after the Tanuga station explodes (MPR).  He gets into a
  fight in Ten-Forward, a by-product of Sarek's mental condition (SAR).  He
  dislocates his shoulder while kayaking in the holodeck, but is cured by
  John Doe (TRA).  (ENS,BON,BTR,ENE,PRI,HUN,MPR,TIN,HOL,TOY,SAR,TRA,BBW)
Off-Zel, Mark : He carved a vase on Sirrie Four that Fajo now owns.  (TOY)
Oji [Pamela Segall] : Mintakan child, daughter of Liko.  She is the one who
  witnesses Liko's fall from the Federation station and corroborates his story
  about 'the Picard'.  She has read the Mintakan sundial many times, but never
  as the appointed record keeper, a job which Liko says her mother would be
  very proud of.  (WHO)
Olivier, Sir Lawrence : Data plans to study his performance of Henry V in order
  to better understand the role.  (DEF)
Ortiz, Ensign : She will play the violin instead of Data at the second ship's
  concert, a fact that Data notes to Picard and Beverly.  (ENS)
Palmer, Dr. : Third member of the three-man Mintakan station, he escapes the
  blast through the duck blind and hides in a nearby cave.  The Mintakans find
  him, but Riker is able to escape with him, leaving Troi behind.  (WHO)
Parker : An officer on the Enterprise-C.  (YES)
Patakh [Steve Rankin] : Romulan survivor of a crash on Galorndon Core, he is
  taken to the Enterprise.  Beverly says he needs a transfusion of compatible
  ribosomes in order to survive, and the only good donor is Worf, who refuses.
  He also suffers from exposure to the magnetic fields on the planet.  Because
  of Patakh and Worf's mutual stubbornness, the Romulan dies.  (ENE)
Penthor-Mul : A leader of the Gatherers who died 53 years ago following his
  capture and trial.  He was a member of the Lornack clan and was killed by
  Yuta with the microvirus.  (VFA)
Perrin [Joanna Miles] : Wife of Ambassador Sarek of Vulcan, human like his
  first wife.  A woman of deep emotion, who loves her husband dearly....and
  because of it, tries to hide from him that he has Bendii Syndrome.  She se-
  lects Data's playing of Tataglia at the Mozart recital.  Eventually, she has
  to bow to Picard's wishes to inform Sarek he is very sick.  (SAR)
Picard, Captain Jean-Luc [Patrick Stewart] : Captain of the USS Enterprise.
  He aids Starfleet in allowing Stubbs' research experiment aboard his vessel.
  When he was 17, he was getting into much more trouble than Wesley.  (EVO)
  He attends a musical recital with Beverly.  He is forced to deal directly
  with the Sheliak; when he and Troi find a loophole in the Treaty of Armens,
  he is able to hold off their destruction of the colony on Tau Cygna V (ENS).
  He deals with the Uxbridges directly, chancing his suspicion that Rishon is
  really dead and Kevin is an alien, and succeeds; he offers them a replicator
  and starship protection (SUR).  The Mintakans create a god in his image when
  Liko sees him on the Enterprise, and he is forced to bring Nuria up to con-
  vince her, then come down with her and allow Liko to challenge his mortality
  (WHO).  He has always thought that children being on a starship was a ques-
  tionable practice.  His duty ends in telling children that their parents
  has died, but he still finds it difficult (BON).  He constructed ships in
  bottles as a child; he remarks that he probably had a Promellian battlecrui-
  ser in one.  He expected the bridge of the Cleponji to be clumsy, but it
  wasn't; he's lucky to even go there, knowing Riker.  He pilots the Enterprise
  out of the Menthar booby trap himself (BTR).  He deals directly with 
  Tomalak over Galorndon Core in a game of brinksmanship, while his people
  look for Geordi (ENE).  He hosts the Barzan Wormhole negotiations aboard the
  ship, but regrets allowing the Ferengi to participate (PRI).  He is the one
  who suggests that the Acamarians and the Gatherers make peace, and goes to
  Acamar Three to enlist Marouk's aid (VFA).  He doesn't trust Jarok, but goes
  along with his suspicions, violating the Neutral Zone.  Picard directs Data
  in a holodeck representation of Henry V, asking Data to listen to what
  Shakespeare is telling us about the man, the king (DEF).  He comes to Ango-
  sia to hear their proposal for Federation membership, then realizes the way
  they have treated their veterans and leaves the whole planet alone to solve
  its own problems (HUN).  He is kidnapped by the Ansata after delivering
  medical aid.  According to Beverly, he would never kidnap anyone himself;
  he would treat them with respect instead.  He has serious problems with
  Kyril Finn's methods (HGR).  He finds Q bothersome, and doesn't trust him
  when he insists he is now a mortal (DEQ).  He enjoys painting, and takes
  an art class.  Data reacts to his work; he says that while suggesting the
  free treatment of form of Fauvism, he also juxtaposes the styles of Picasso
  and Leger.  In addition, the use of color on his painting suggests a hapha-
  zard melange of clashing styles, and overtones of proto-Vulcan influences
  are unsettling....until Picard stops Data from speaking further.  Picard
  gets involved with Krag's dispute and helps Riker defend himself by recrea-
  ting the Tanugan station in the holodeck (MPR).  He becomes a war-weary
  battle commander in the alternate timeline, but trusts Guinan's intuition
  that history has been changed.  He also grants Tasha a transfer to the
  Enterprise-C (YES).  He has serious doubts about Data's child, Lal, espe-
  cially in matters of parenting (although he's never *been* a parent) and
  how it classifies as a child; nevertheless, he defends Data and even risks
  his own career to save Lal (OFF).  Caviar is a personal favorite of his; he
  brings some aboard from the Caspian Sea on Earth.  He becomes Worf's cha'DIch
  when Kurn is injured.  Picard also acts as a representative of the Federa-
  tion when dealing with the Klingon High Council (SIN).  He is kidnapped
  and replaced with a doppleganger by aliens studying leadership and authority.
  He attempts to communicate with his captors when he is imprisoned by tapping
  out the first six prime numbers on a keypad, thus letting them know the
  captives possess intelligence.  He visited Chalna 12 years ago while comman-
  ding the Stargazer (ALL).  While on Gemaris, he ate sparingly, slept even
  less.  Beverly insists he suffers from a classic case of stress and exhaus-
  tion.  He loathes going on vacations but has a wonderful time once there.
  The entire crew (save two ensigns on deck thirty nine, muses Riker) is in on
  the plan to get him to leave.  Once on Risa, he becomes involved with Vash,
  Sovak, the Vorgons and their mutual designs on the Tox Uthat, but all he
  wants to do is read his books (CAP).  He doesn't trust Tam Elbrun, but never-
  theless must rely on him when dealing with Tin Man (TIN).  In Barclay's
  holodeck projection, he is one of the Musketeers.  He slips in his speech
  and ends up calling him Broccoli (HOL).  He has a hard time dealing with
  Data's loss, choosing to quote poetry (TOY).  He met Sarek at the Vulcan's
  son's wedding, quite a moment for a young, tongue-tied lieutenant.  His
  career has been followed by Sarek, called satisfactory by the Vulcan.  He
  must mind-meld with Sarek to aid him in the negotiations with the Legarans
  (SAR).  He has to bargain for Lwaxana's release by quoting poetry, proving
  he is insane enough to destroy any of her "previous lovers", including Tog
  (MEN).  He is witness to John Doe's transformation (TRA).  He is sent to
  deal with the Borg, and is kidnapped by them.  He refuses to cooperate, but
  they eventually transmogrify him and make him Locutus, their speaker (BBW).
  A powerful man, and a strong Captain, whose life is in question at the end
  of the season...
Picard, False [Patrick Stewart] : A duplicate of Captain Picard created by
  unnamed aliens to aid their effort to study the concepts of authority and
  leadership.  The false Picard acts like he mistrusts the crew, runs several
  efficiency drills, sings in Ten-Forward with his men, reports for a complete
  physical on his own whim - something Picard never does - and has dinner
  with Beverly.  He finally endangers the crew at the Lonka Pulsar before Riker
  leads a mutiny.  The kidnappers then bring the real Picard back.  (ALL)
Picasso : Artist that Picard's work imitates, says Data.  (MPR)
Policeman [Fred G. Smith] : He clears the Rutians out of the plaza just at-
  tacked by Ansata terrorists.  (HGR)
Pulaski, Dr. Katherine : Served as Chief Medical Officer last season.  Beverly
  is familiar with her mind-erasing technique.  (WHO)
"Q" [John deLancie] : The "omnipotent" scourge of the spaceways and Picard's
  most resilient nemesis.  This time around, Q is stripped of his powers by the
  Q Continuum and he chooses to live life as a human - where he realizes that
  he makes a terrible one at that.  He believes he's really a Klingon at heart,
  though this is little comfort to Worf.  Eventually, his powers are given back
  when he performs a selfless act to save the Enterprise.  He tells Guinan that
  his IQ is "only" 2005.  (DEQ)
"Q2" [Corbin Bernsen, uncredited] : Another Q entity, the one who got Q kicked
  out of the Continuum.  He acts as Q's judge in the shuttlecraft.  (DEQ)
Rabo : A Mintakan hunter.  He and Hali find Palmer.  (WHO)
Ral, Devinoni [Matt McCoy] : A "hired gun", a negotiator who lends his talents
  to other races.  In the Barzan Wormhole negotiation, he represents the Chry-
  salians.  Ral is one quarter Betazoid and possesses empathic powers, and he
  also falls in love with Deanna Troi.  Age 41, born Brussels, European Alli-
  ance, reloacted at 19 to Hurkos Three.  He has a "traveling companion" he
  sent home before arriving on the Enterprise.  His mother was 1/4 Betazoid; 
  he is the only empath of five children.  (PRI)
Riker, Commander William T. [Jonathan Frakes] : First Officer of the Enter-
  prise.  He relies on Data to transport the Tau Cygna V people to a place
  where they can be picked up and orders Geordi and O'Brien to work on the
  transporter while Picard is visiting the Sheliak (ENS).  He leads the Rana
  IV away team and cannot understand why the Uxbridges don't want to leave
  the planet (SUR).  He and Troi are surgically altered to pass as Mintakans
  and Riker is able to rescue Palmer, leaving Troi behind (WHO).  He didn't
  know Marla Aster that well, but they shared a few times together.  He notes
  to Data that if everyone felt so keenly about every death, human history
  would be a lot less bloody (BON).  He argues with Picard about leading the
  away team to the Promellian battlecruiser (BTR) and leads the away team to
  Galorndon Core himself with Geordi and Worf, where he loses the former to
  a pit (ENE).  He conducts master classes in poker.  When Mendoza is poisoned
  by DaiMon Goss, Riker is given the task of negotiating, and eventually he
  is pitted directly against Devinoni Ral.  Ral underestimates him and his
  relationship with Troi, but Ral eventually wins by using his Betazoid abi-
  lities.  Nevertheless, Bhavani is impressed with his abilities (PRI).  He
  attempted to help Yuta to stop her mission of destiny, and ended up des-
  troying her when he realized she wouldn't give up, something he had a hard
  time accepting (VFA).  He and Troi interrogate Jarok (DEF) and he tries to
  capture Roga Danar when he flees from the brig (HUN).  He has a hard time
  accepting the terrorists' position when learning of atrocities and dealing
  with Alexana Devos, and eventually he and Devos lead a mission into the
  Ansata base (HGR).  Q notes that he wasn't so stolid before he grew his
  beard (DEQ).  He is accused of the murder of Dr. Apgar and the loss of the 
  Tanuga Research Station, but actually, the damage was done by Apgar himself.
  Nevertheless, he and Manua Apgar did exchange something whilst on board the
  station, but Riker thinks she led him on and she the opposite (MPR).  His
  position of First Officer becomes part of tactical in the alternate timeline
  and he challenges Picard's decisions when he thinks his captain is taking
  irrational proposals and considering them, sending the Enterprise-C into
  oblivion (YES).  He takes personal leave when Data creates Lal, and is
  shocked when Lal kisses him in Ten-Forward (OFF).  He has a tough time dea-
  ling with Kurn; Kurn almost kills him for his insolence (SIN).  He challen-
  ges the false Picard (ALL) and makes the real one go on shore leave by
  joining in Troi's deception that Lwaxana is coming for a visit (CAP).  Two
  friends of his from his class at the Academy died on Ghorusda, part of the
  reason he holds so much hostility toward Tam Elbrun (TIN).  His hologram
  double gets hit in Ten-Forward; Barclay calls him a pretty mannequin dressed
  up in a fancy uniform, full of hot air.  Later, he becomes Number One, the
  Fourth Musketeer.  He *is* very tall, which Troi says could be threatening
  to some people.  Barclay does *not* amuse him (HOL).  He, Worf and Beverly
  discover the problem on Beta Agni Two as being artificially created (TOY).
  He was a junior officer when he met Deanna, a very serious psychology
  student, "the best thing about being assigned to Betazed" (MEN).  His quar-
  ters are on deck eight.  He believes he's lost something when he realizes
  he's not the same man he used to be; Troi notes that he's more seasoned, a
  little older, more experienced.  He starts to slip into Picard's frame of
  mind when he is forced into the captaincy of the Enterprise.  He has rejec-
  ted two other offers to command a ship, and refuses the third, the Melbourne,
  especially with the Borg threat (BBW).
Rojay : The traveling companion of Devinoni Ral, a woman who looks bored and
  barely acknowledges her surroundings.  (PRI)
Russell : An Engineer on the Enterprise who aids Geordi.  (TIN)
Sakkath [Rocco Sisto] : Personal assistant to Ambassador Sarek, a stolid Vulcan
  man who has actually been acting as a shield, using in his own terms his
  limited capabilities to enhance Sarek's mental discipline.  His tension and
  questions to Data about the stability of the mission eventually convince him
  to reveal Sarek's condition to Captain Picard.  (SAR)
Sarek, Ambassador [Mark Lenard] : Distinguished Vulcan scholar and one of the
  galaxy's most renowned ambassadors, who negotiated the Treaty of Alpha Cyg-
  nus Nine, the Coridan admission to the Federation and the Klingon Alliance.
  Married two earth women, Amanda and Perrin; Picard met him briefly at his
  son's wedding.  He later mentioned Spock and Amanda in the past tense.  He
  is afflicted with Bendii Syndrome, a disease comparable to terran Alzheimer's
  disease, which causes loss of emotional control and ability to meditate,
  and causes a tear at a Mozart recital and an argument with Captain Picard. 
  He is able to overcome this with a mind-meld with Picard, and successfully
  negotiates a treaty with the Legarans, a final, crowning achievement of his
  long career.  (SAR; from original series)
Sar, Galek [Albert Hall] : Captain of the Cleponji, the Promellian battle-
  cruiser located by the Enterprise.  He died at his post, which Worf considers
  honorable.  (Incorrectly "Galek Dar" in the show's credits).  (BTR)
Science Crewman [John H. Francis] : He argues with O'Brien about who's table
  he's sitting at in Ten Forward -- due to Sarek's emotional breakdown -- and
  eventually causes a bar-brawl.  (SAR)
Scientist [Betty Muramoto] : Assistant to Dr. Garin.  (DEQ)
Security Officers : Two security officers try to stop the Koinonian spectre
  in the Transporter Room to no avail.  (BON)  Two of them try to take Danar
  captive on the Enterprise, but are put off by his extraordinary fighting
  ability.  (HUN)
Selar, Dr. : On the Enterprise-D, ordered via the loudspeaker to report to
  null-G ward, stat.  (YES)
Setal, Sublieutenant : -see- Jarok, Admiral
Shapiro : Data plans to study his portrayal of the Henry V role in order to
  understand the role better.  (DEF)
Shaw, Katik [Marc Buckland] : Waiter at the Rutian plaza attacked by the 
  Ansata.  In actuality, he is a terrorist, presumably the one who set the bomb
  when Beverly is kidnapped.  (HGR)
Shelby, Lieutenant Commander [Elizabeth Dennehy] : Starfleet Tactical officer,
  who took over Borg tactical analysis six months ago and now has her sights
  set on the first officership of the Enterprise.  Beautiful but calculating,
  a good officer but zealous and overeager.  She and Riker immediately bump
  heads, but Riker realizes he must depend on her when the Enterprise faces
  the Borg in a standoff, and Picard is captured.  She leads an away team to
  the Borg ship to rescue Picard, to no avail, and tries to get Riker to con-
  tact Starfleet before he fires the Enterprise's weapon... (BBW)
Sheliak [Mart McChesney] : Leader of the Sheliak vessel; also the one contacted
  on Shelius by the Enterprise.  (ENS)
Soong, Dr. Noonian : Data's creator.  Data is able to continue Soong's work
  after attending a cybernetics conference, and creates Lal.  (OFF)
Sousa, John Phillip : Composer of "Stars and Stripes Forever".  (EVO)
Sovak [Max Grodenchik] : A Ferengi civilian who first bothers Picard arguing
  for the "disc", which will lead him to the Tox-Uthat.  He believes the
  disc -- and the woman, Vash -- are his; he offers Picard his weight in gold
  for the disc.  He aided Professor Estragon in his explorations at certain
  times, especially in situations that weren't quite ethical.  When he cannot
  find the Uthat in the Risian cave, he tries to dig himself, refusing to give
  up....a hopeless cause.  (CAP)
Spock : Half-Vulcan son of Sarek, who regrets never being able to tell him that
  he loved him.  Referred to in the past tense; it is quite possible that
  Spock has passed on.  Played in the original series by Leonard Nimoy.  (SAR)
Stubbs, Dr. Paul [Ken Jenkins] : Astrophysicist studying the Kavis Alpha explo-
  sion, a harsh man deadened by science.  He says his mother is a formidable
  woman he wouldn't want flying around in space with him....a woman of letters,
  a great critic.  Wesley read his unauthorized biography.  He is a great fan
  of baseball.  Troi says his self portrait is so practiced, so polished. (EVO)
Sunad [Charles Dennis] : Commander of the Zalkonian ship which threatens the
  Enterprise.  He tries to stop John Doe's transfiguration, but is unable to,
  and returns home to warn his fellow dictators.  (TRA)
Tataglia : Data has been programmed to reproduce his style, one of over 300
  violinists, for the Mozart concert.  Perrin selects Tataglia's style for the
  concert when Data asks her.  (SAR)
Tayna [Juli Donald] : Dr. Apgar's assistant, with a large beehive hairdo and
  quiet demeanor.  She gives testimony on Riker's actions aboard the space
  station.  (MPR)
Technicians : Two workers on the Jovis who try to stop Data and Varria from
  escaping.  Kivas threatens one with death to stop Data after he kills Varria.
  (TOY)
Temarek [Elkanah J. Burns] : Brull has him taste the drink that Marouk offers
  to him.  When Volnoth dies, he claims his possessions and strips the dead
  corpse, disgusting Marouk and the Enterprise away team.  (VFA)
Temple, Nurse [Patti Tippo] : Enterprise nurse, who aids Beverly in her at-
  tempt to save John's life.  (TRA)
Ten-Forward Crew [Diane Moser, Hayne Bayle, Maria Leone, James Becker] : People
  in the Ten-Forward lounge when Lal comes to pay a visit to Guinan.  (OFF)
Terkim : Guinan's mother's brother, the family misfit.  Everyone told Guinan
  to stay away from him, which of course she ignored; he was the only member of
  the family with a sense of humor.  (HOL)
Tholl, Kova [Stephen Markle] : A Mizarian, pacifistic....and cowardly.  He is
  part of the captive group that includes Picard, Esoqq and the fake Mitena
  Haro.  He refuses to cooperate with his fellow captors; when he finally does,
  he realizes that he was part of the experiment itself, to see how long he
  would last before he did cooperate.  (ALL)
Thomas, Ensign : On the Enterprise-D, ordered to report to Combat Information
  Center, or C.I.C.  (YES)
Toff, Palor [Nehemiah Persoff] : Rival trader to Kivas Fajo, of an undisclosed
  race.  He possesses three nostrils, one of which is an aid to a decorative
  gold accessory that wraps his face.  (TOY)
Tog, DaiMon [Frank Corsentino] : Ferengi captain of the Krayton, he kidnaps
  Lwaxana Troi after falling head first for her.  He finds her exotic, and
  agrees that she would be a valuable commodity for him in his trade deals.
  Riker and Troi are taken with her, leading Tog into what could be a major
  interstellar incident.  He says that some females say his large ears are
  his best feature, and love to give him Oo-mox.  (MEN)
Tomalak [Andreas Katsulas] : Romulan commander of the Neutral Zone security
  force, he violates the Zone treaty in order to rescue the crash survivors on
  Galorndon Core.  When Picard refuses to allow him to cross, Tomalak and he
  play a deadly game of brinksmanship.  (ENE)  He also meets Picard at the
  Neutral Zone, in charge of the task force led to charge Admiral Jarok with
  treason.  Picard eventually makes him back down after employing a squadron
  of Klingon cruisers.  (DEF)
Transporter Technician [Teddy Davis] : She beams Kurn to the Enterprise.  (SIN)
Troi, Counselor Deanna [Marina Sirtis] : Lieutenant Commander, USS Enterprise,
  the ship's Chief Counselor, resident psychologist and Captain's adjunct.
  She begins to sense the nanites as a conscious presence (EVO) and aids Picard
  in dealing with the alien Sheliak, including going over the Treaty of Armens
  with him to find a loophole (ENS).  She is terrorised by Kevin Uxbridge's
  mental powers by a music replaying over in her mind; Beverly inhibits nearly
  all the activity in her neocortex, but it fails to stop the music (SUR).  She
  and Riker are altered to pass as Mintakans and enter their culture, but when
  Riker saves Palmer, she is left behind (WHO).  Staying with a victim and
  helping them get through their grief and guilt after death is something she
  finds very rewarding (BON).  She falls head first for Devinoni Ral, but has
  her own motivations questioned by him.  She asks Beverly about her feelings,
  and decides to go along with them.  Eventually, she realizes Ral puts her
  in a conflict of interest.  She receives an inquiry from the Manitoba Journal
  of Interplanetary Psychology, as well as three communiques from her mother,
  Lwaxana (PRI).  She loves chocolate, especially sundaes and especially when
  she is unhappy (PRI,DEQ).  She interrogates Jarok but cannot read his mind
  (DEF).  She doesn't believe Roga Danar is dangerous, a key factor in disco-
  vering his true intentions and history (HUN).  She is witness to the attack
  on the ship and Picard's kidnapping, and tries to help (HGR).  She reads
  Manua Apgar and Riker and realizes both are telling the truth, from their
  own points of view (MPR).  She is not present in the alternate timeline 
  (YES).  She counsels Data on his decision to create Lal, and Lal herself on
  her choices of gender and appearance, matters of relationships and her own
  feelings (OFF).  She doesn't realize that when Kurn says he almost killed
  Riker in the turbolift, he wasn't kidding; she laughs emphatically (SIN).
  She aids Riker in mutinying against the false Picard, but cannot detect any
  emotional changes in the doppleganger; she only realizes something is wrong
  when he asks her about the crew's reactions to him (ALL).  She warns Picard
  that her mother may visit the Enterprise, which gets him off and lets him
  go on shore leave (CAP).  She met Tam Elbrun at the University on Betazed;
  she was a student, he was a patient.  Elbrun calls her Dee.  She cannot un-
  derstand why he left Chandra Five (TIN).  In Barclay's holodeck projection
  she is the Goddess of Empathy, which the real Troi thinks is embarassing
  (HOL).  She helps Geordi deal with the stress of losing Data (TOY) and Picard
  with the stresses of Sarek's emotional breakdown (SAR).  She's known Reittan
  Grax since she was a child.  Her mother thinks she could have made something
  of herself were she not in Starfleet.  She and Riker are now good friends,
  which Lwaxana says is a big mistake (MEN).  She fears that Picard may be
  lost to the borg, who invade the Enterprise and the Federation (BBW).  A
  gentle, emotional woman, and Picard's right hand.
Troi, Lwaxana [Majel Barrett] : Betazoid emissary, "daughter of the Fifth
  House, holder of the sacred Chalice of Rixx, heir to the Holy Rings of
  Betazed".  Deanna's theatrical mother, who visits the Enterprise during the
  Trade Agreements Conference on Betazed.  Her first husband knew Reittan Grax
  very well; he was not much of a conversationalist, but a wonderful lover.
  She is kidnapped by DaiMon Tog because of her mental powers, and is forced to
  accede to his demands, but she is able to overcome him.  (MEN)  She sent
  three communiques to her daughter.  (PRI)  Deanna notes that she may be
  visiting the Enterprise on Starbase 12, which convinces Picard to take a
  vacation.  (CAP)
Uxbridge, Kevin [John Anderson] : Appearing as an elder human male, he is ac-
  tually a Douwd, an immortal being of disguises.  He took on the form of a
  human male and fell in love with an Earth woman, Rishon, and took her to live
  on Rana IV for her final years...unfortunately, she died in the Rana disas-
  ter.  In retaliation for killing her, Kevin destroyed all Husnocks, the inva-
  ders, everywhere.  He is a pacifist by nature; his past includes a stay in
  New Martim Vaz on earth.  He is a specialist in symbiotic plant life, eighty-
  five years old (in human disguise).  The Uxbridges have been married for 53
  years, and are both botanists.  When Rishon first met him, he was a starving
  student in a threadbare suit and mismatched shoes.  (SUR)
Uxbridge, Rishon [Anne Haney] : Wife of Kevin, eighty-two, a composer of Tao-
  classical music, and a botanist; she and Kevin have been on Rana IV for 5
  years, and are from New Martim Vaz on Earth.  She died in the Rana attack,
  but Kevin - actually a Douwd - brought her image to life.  They have been
  married for 53 years.  She is a gentle woman, but she went to fight the
  Husnock - her final mistake.  When Kevin first met her, she was traveling
  with her parents, and asked him to marry her two hours after they met.  (SUR)
Van Gogh, Vincent : -see- Starry Night (in Subject Guide)
Varria [Jane Daly] : Zibalian aide to Kivas Fajo.  She knows he has no moral
  difficulties whatsoever, but is 'owned' by him.  Data is able to win her
  over when he risks his life for her, but she is killed by Fajo with a Varon-
  T disruptor when she tries to escape.  She has been with Fajo for fourteen
  years; she was barely an adult when he found her, idealistic, naive, full of
  dreams.  (TOY)
Vash [Jennifer Hetrick] : A curious woman who first bumps into Picard by pas-
  sionately kissing him trying to escape the Ferengi, Sovak.  She served as
  personal assistant to Professor Samuel Estragon for the last five years of
  his life, and when he died, took up the pursuit of the Tox-Uthat.  She 
  takes Sovak's money to come to Risa and doublecrosses the Ferengi.  In actu-
  ality, she wants to make a sizeable profit with the Uthat....but doesn't
  count on Picard, or the fact that she falls for him.  (CAP)
Volnoth [Marc Lawrence] : One of the last members of the Lornack clan, he is
  killed by a microvirus transmitted by Yuta.  He recognizes Yuta right before
  his death.  (VFA)
Violinist : Serenades Geordi and Christy on the holodeck.  (BTR)
Wagnor [Andrew Bickell] : Pilot of the Angosian transport sent to bring Danar
  back to Lunar Five.  (HUN)
Waiter : -see- Shaw, Katik
Warren, Dr. Mary [Lois Hall] : Scientist injured in the Mintaka station explo-
  sion.  Her wounds are terminal; she later dies in Enterprise's sickbay. (WHO)
Washington, George : Kyril Finn compares himself to Washington, and the Ansata
  to the Americans fighting for independence in the Revolutionary War.  (HGR)
Williams, Ensign : Officer in art class with Picard.  Data says his striking
  style is heavily influenced by geometric constructivism.  (MPR)
Williams, Michael [Patrick Stewart] : A character from the Henry V simulation
  that Data undertakes.  (Stewart plays this as a cameo)  (DEF)
Women : Two women in bikinis appear with their arms around Riker on Q's whim.
  When he refuses, Q moves them - literally - to Worf.  (DEQ)
Worf, Lieutenant [Michael Dorn] : Chief of Security, USS Enterprise, a staunch
  Klingon with a strict attention to his duty and his shipmates.  According
  to Picard, the renegade Andorians in the Triangulum System never had to con-
  tend with his thoroughness (SUR).  He lost his parents when he was six.  He
  feels guilty over Marla's death because he led the away team on which she
  died, and joins with Jeremy in the R'uustai, or "bonding" (BON).  He didn't
  play with toys as a child, especially ships in bottles (BTR).  He is the
  only compatible ribosome match with Patakh, and because of family honor, he
  refuses to aid the Romulan.  His hatred stems from the fact that a Romulan
  attack killed his parents.  According to Picard, he wouldn't ever complain
  about Picard's judgment even if he had cause to do so (ENE).  Jarok likes
  him; he's got an attitude (DEF).  He is hit and nearly killed by an Ansata
  attack (HGR).  He obviously doesn't like bathing, but Q thinks he'll hate
  it even more (DEQ).  Guinan says it wouldn't hurt him to look for a little
  companionship; he says that he would require a Klingon woman.  He believes
  prune juice "a warrior's drink".  He is not present when the timeline alters,
  which is perfectly understandable (YES).  Troi notes that if Lal selects a
  Klingon guise he will be a friend for Worf (OFF).  His brother is Kurn; 
  he is the son of Mogh, and was orphaned as one of the two survivors of the
  Khitomer Massacre; he was told by Klingon High Command that he had no living
  relatives.  He answers for the accusations toward Mogh by going to the
  Klingon homeworld and challenging the verdict.  He and his nurse, Kahlest,
  were the only survivors of the Khitomer Massacre.  His sash is ripped off
  him by Duras, but he nevertheless has another one back on the ship.  He
  accepts discommendation in order to save the Empire and one day continue
  the struggle, but in doing so, Kurn is lost to him (SIN).  He aids Riker in
  mutinying against the false Picard (ALL).  Riker and Picard both select him
  to replace Data after he is supposedly killed....the second time he has had
  to do it (TOY).  He is mortally injured, yet is saved by John (TRA).  He
  tries to help Picard by charging the energy screen put up by the Borg, but
  fails, and takes it personally (BBW).  A strong, dedicated professional.
Wright, Lieutenant : An oriental officer in art class with Picard.  Data says
  she has effectively fused the incongruities of the surrealists with the ir-
  rationality of Dadaism.  (MPR)
Yar, Lieutenant Natasha "Tasha" [Denise Crosby] : The Enterprise's former secu-
  rity chief, who died at Vagra Two during the ship's first year of duty.  A
  strong, robust woman with a shrouded past, well liked and remembered by her
  fellow crewmates.  In the alternate timeline, she never died; straight out
  of the Academy, on the Enterprise for four years - and feeling lucky to have
  gotten the assignment - she remained security chief in the Federation's war
  with the Klingon Empire.  Only on Guinan's intuition does she transfer to 
  the Enterprise-C, after the wizened woman informs her of her meaningless
  death in the other timeline.  Though she is presumably killed in battle when
  the Enterprise-C returns to Narendra Three, 22 years ago, it gives her death
  meaning, and dignity.  (YES)  Data doesn't detect the same feelings of
  absence he associates with her death when Marla Aster dies.  (BON)  The holo-
  gram of Tasha that Data holds as one of his most prized possessions is found
  by Geordi and Wesley when they pack his belongings.  Worf had problems re-
  placing her, as he does when he must also replace Data.  (TOY)
Yari : A Mintakan; Nuria sends him and Hali after Riker.  (WHO)
Yuta [Lisa Wilcox] : The Chef and taster to Sovereign Marouk of Acamar III, she
  is the last survivor of the Tralesta Clan.  Yuta was chosen to seek revenge
  against the Lornack clan; her cells were altered, her aging slowed, in order
  to carry it out.  Riker discovers her secret by extrapolating from a photo-
  graph of the Penthor-Mul trial; he tries to stop her from killing Chorgon,
  the last Lornack, but has to kill her in doing so.  She is a sad siren,
  her destiny chosen for her, but regrets what she has to do.  (VFA)
Zayner [J. Michael Flynn] : Aide to Prime Minister Nayrok.  (HUN)

==== SUBJECT INDEX ============================================================
Acamarian Brandy : A delicacy Chorgon has not tasted in a long time.  (VFA)
Acamarian Database : Transmitted to the Enterprise.  Riker is able to discover
  the "missing link" in Volnath's murder through examination of this.  (VFA)
Acamarians : Residents of Acamar Three.  They are endowed with an unusual
  iron-copper composite blood type, unique to them.  The Gatherers, a tribe
  of nomadic raiders, split off from their culture a century before.  (VFA)
Access Code : Needed to access Ferengi computers on the Krayton.  Tog's begins
  with Code Keh-ee Yoor-ee Dah-teh-ee....but Farek cuts him off, realizing
  Lwaxana's nefarous game.  (MEN)
Aceton Assimilators : Devices that feed on raw power, then convert that power
  to radiation and throw it back to the original supply.  They were used by the
  Menthars as booby traps; the Cleponji was ensnared in it a millenium ago and
  the Enterprise is caught in it as well.  (BTR)
Advanced Genetics : Wesley's nanite studies is his final project for his Ad-
  vanced Genetics course.  (EVO)
Age of Ascension : -see- Klingon Age of Ascension
Aldabren Exchange : A move Riker makes to finish off his chess game with Nibor
  in Ten-Forward.  (MEN)
Ale : The false Picard orders a round of ales for everyone in Ten-Forward, and
  begins singing, a clear sign of his problematic nature.  (ALL)
Algolian Ceremonial Rhythms : Chimes played at the closing ceremonies of the
  Trade Agreements Conference on the Enterprise.  Riker duplicates them via
  subspace static to signal the Enterprise.  (MEN)
Alliance, Klingon/Federation : Picard notes that the alliance is not based on
  lies, but K'mpec refuses to give in, refusing to destroy the Empire for one
  family's honor.  Picard must test his resolve in dealing with the situation
  of the trial on the Klingon homeworld.  (SIN)
Alternate Timeline : Created by the temporal rift and the subsequent escape of
  the Enterprise-C through it from the Narendra Three encounter.  It was a dar-
  ker, militaristic atmosphere, caused by 22 years of war with the Klingons,
  who evidentally believed that Narendra was leveled by the Federation instead
  of the true culprits, the Romulans.  In the alternate timeline, Tasha Yar is
  still alive, Picard recites Military Logs, Wesley is a full Ensign, Troi and
  Worf are absent, Guinan's Ten-Forward is a mess room, and the Enterprise-D
  is a battleship.  Here, Starfleet is losing to the Klingons; analysts say
  that defeat is imminent, within six months - already the Federation has lost
  half of Starfleet to them, even though when the Enterprise-C battled at Na-
  rendra Three the Federation was negotiating for peace.  Forty billion people
  have already died in the war by the time the Enterprise-C comes through the
  rift.  (YES)
Anastazine : A anti-personnel gas; Picard has Data flood the Cargo Bays with
  anastazine at 70 parts per million to put Danar to sleep.  (HUN)
Andorians : A Starfleet Admiral once said that a group of renegade Andorians
  in the Triangulum system had completely disappeared from a system.  In actu-
  ality, they dismantled their ship and hid it.  Picard compares that to the
  disappearance of the Husnock vessel.  (SUR)  Lal narrows its choices on gen-
  der and appearance to four, one of which is an Andorian female, which would
  be the only one on board the Enterprise.  (OFF)  They wish to bid for the
  shipment of Tellurian spices Kivas Fajo has offered; they've had four days,
  and interrupt Fajo when he is questioning Data.  (TOY)
Angosian Alteration : The process of psychological manipulation and biochemical
  conditioning, using cryptobiolin, triclenidil, macrospentol and a few things
  Troi doesn't even recognize.  The process alters cell structur and turns an
  otherwise normal man into a perfect soldier and killing machine.  (HUN)
Ansata : Terrorist separatists fighting for autonomy and self-determination
  for their homeland on the western continent of the planet Rutia Four.  It is
  led by Kyril Finn.  They have been fighting for seventy years against the
  Rutian eastern continent.  The Rutians believe they consist of only some two
  hundred members, but they have a list of over five thousand Ansata suppor-
  ters.  Once, an Ansata bomb destroyed sixty children in a shuttlebus, which
  makes Police Chief Devos hate them more, even though they claim the intended
  targed was a police transport.  Their base is some 300 kilometers from the
  capital city, on the southern tip of the continent.  (HGR)
Anthropological Station : Located on Mintaka Three, populated by three Federa-
  tion Anthropological Field Team scientists.  Their reactor produces 4.2
  gigawatts, enabling them to power their "duck blind", a hologrammatic image
  that keeps them hidden.  (WHO)
Anti-Grav Unit : A system being plagued by failures, due to the invidium leak
  from the tissue sample containers.  (HOL)
Apnex Sea : A place on Romulus that Jarok comments on; he will never be able to
  see the spires of his home rising above the Apnex Sea again.  (DEF)
Arboretum : There is one on the Enterprise, which Wes takes Suzanne Dumont to
  on a date, instead of the Mozart Recital.  (SAR)  Geordi later visits here
  on a date with Christy (TRA).
Arcturian Fizz : A drink that Lwaxana says has certain pleasure-enhancing
  qualities; she is going to use it to get Tog's access code, but fails. (MEN)
Artonian Lasers : Found at the Gatherer encampment on Gamma Hromi II.  (VFA)
Auto-Destruct Sequencer : Jarok sets this on his ship before he leaves, so
  that it would not be picked apart for its secrets.  (DEF)
Barzan Wormhole : An interdimensional passage to points in other parts of the
  galaxy, the only stable wormhole known to exist.  It appears approximately
  every 233 minutes due to radiation buildup in the accretion disk.  It is a
  shortcut to the Gamma Quadrant, "available for the right price".  It origi-
  nally delivered a Barzan probe beyond the Denkiri Arm in Gamma which would
  take 100 years at Warp 9 to reach.  Geordi detects meson and lepton increases
  when he and Data journey through it and the Ferengi shuttle is marooned when
  the other side changes location.  It is eventually realized to be a dry well,
  worthless, "a proverbial lemon".  (PRI)
Baseball : Once, centuries ago, it was the beloved national pasttime of the
  Americans....now lost to impatience, abandoned.  Stubbs is a great fan of
  old baseball, and has memories statistics to play out seasons in his own
  mind.  He compares his project to baseball; because of the Enterprise's mal-
  functions, his is a game postponed 196 years on account of rain.  Later,
  Stubbs is thinking about baseball - with Lockman on first, Dark on second,
  Thompson at the plate and Branca on the mound - when he is attacked by the
  nanites personally.  (EVO)
Basotile : The very first Basotile, a piece of art, was created centuries ago;
  it is now owned by Fajo, and it is priceless.  (TOY)
Battle Bridge : Located on Deck Eight.  Riker and Shelby go there to prepare
  for a possible saucer separation.  (BBW)
Belzoidian Flea : Q could have chosen to become this instead of a human.  (DEQ)
Bendii Syndrome : A rare disease that sometimes affects Vulcans over the age of
  two-hundred, which is caught by Sarek.  The disease causes a complete emo-
  tional breakdown of the man, and he begins projecting his emotions to other
  people, nearly destroying the conference with the Legarans that he has come
  to the Enterprise to commence.  A culture from his metathalmus is conclusive
  but the results will take several days....too long.  There has not been a
  case of Bendii Syndrome in Sarek's lifetime, until now, and its effects are
  irreversible.  (SAR)
Berthold Rays : A form of radiation that breaks down organic tissue (from ori-
  ginal series episode "This Side of Paradise); a light bombardment of broad-
  band Berthold rays measuring 75 rems - like a soft medical scan - is used as
  a probe by the Calamarain.  (DEQ)
Betazoids : Inhabitans of Betazed, a Federation member planet.  Betazoids are
  unable to read Ferengi minds.  (MEN)
Betazoid Telepathy : In most Betazoids telepathic gifts develop at adolescence,
  but for unknown reasons occasionally Betazoids are born telepathic; the noise
  is overwhelming, incomprehensible - and painful - to a child.  Tam Elbrun is
  one such individual.  (TIN)
Bioplast Sheeting : Something Data is composed of.  (TOY)
Blood Sample : A sample taken from a makeshift dagger is a rare iron/copper
  composite, unique to Acamarians.  It leads Picard to discern that the scien-
  tific colony was raided by Gatherers.  (VFA)
Board of Inquiry : The False Picard questions Riker, asking if he believes if
  he can convince a board of Inquiry that he is right to remove him from 
  command.  Riker doesn't believe so, but does it anyway.  (ALL)
Bolians : Inhabitants of Bolius Nine, basically humanoid but possessing a ridge
  down the middle of their head, as well as green-tinted skin.  They maintain
  an uneasy truce with the Moropa.  Mitena Haro is one, as well as Captain
  Rixx (from the first season, "Conspiracy").  (ALL)
Bombs, Koinonian : Six in all found on the planet, including the one that
  killed Marla Aster.  They are subspace proximity detonators, undetectable by
  tricorders.  Five are deactivated; the sixth one, the one that exploded, was
  not found by the Koinonian energy aliens.  The five had been pulled out of
  the ground and diffused.  (BON)
Bonding, The : -see- R'uustai
Book : One of Data's possessions, given to him by the Captain.  It was an old
  leather-bound book.  (TOY)
Books, Picard's : He takes with him "Ulysses" by James Joyce and "Ethics,
  Sophistry and the Alternate Universe" by Ving Kuda.  (CAP)
Borg : Cybernetically enhanced humanoids from another part of the galaxy, and
  the most deadly adversary faced by the Federation.  Originally encountering
  the Enterprise in a distant system, placed there by Q ("Q Who," last season)
  they decimate the Jouret Four outpost and then turn their sights toward the
  Federation.  The Borg kidnap Picard to be their speaker, and head for Earth.
  Ruthless, calculating, lacking any respect for life.  The Federation has been
  working on new weapons to combat them, but they are still 18 to 24 months
  away.  In their attack, they kill eleven, with eight more unaccounted for.
  (BBW)
Bottles, Ships In : Picard built these as a child -- he comments that he pro-
  bably had a Promellian battlecruiser in one.  Worf, Riker and Data never did
  this, but Chief O'Brien says he did.  (BTR)
Brinksmanship : A dangerous game, notes Picard, a game that he and Tomalak must
  play over Galorndon Core.  (ENE)
Bubblegum : The Roger Maris trading card that Fajo owns has had its bubblegum
  scent preserved.  (TOY)
Calamarain : A race of ionized gas that Q tormented - he says they "simply have
  no sense of humor".  They in turn take their revenge on Q when he is forced
  to become human, and when Q gets his powers back....he spares them on Q2's
  insistence.  (DEQ)
Caldonians : Competitors (though presumably not very forcibly) of the UFP.  A
  society committed to pure research.  When Leyor, their representative, with-
  draws, Riker tries to make a deal for their Trillium 323 and offer it to the
  Barzans, but the deal has already been made with the Chrysalians.  (PRI)
Captain's Mess : Picard hosts a dinner with his senior officers and Kurn in
  the dining room, serving replicated turkey and some caviar he has saved from
  Earth.  (SIN)
Cargo Bays : Danar confronts a security team in the main cargo bays, Deck 38 
  (HUN).  Geordi orders Barclay to report to Cargo Bay 5, where the tissue
  samples are located (HOL).  A radiation burst outside Cargo Bay 12 on Deck
  39 is the first hint of Krieger waves (MPR).  There is an escape pod in the
  aft cargo bay of the Jovis (TOY).
Caviar : A delicacy from Earth's Caspian Sea that Picard holds as a personal
  favorite of his.  The replicators have never done it justice, so Picard
  managed to store a few cases aboard for special occasions.  (SIN)
Cetacean Ops : On the Enterprise, Dr. Joshua Kim is ordered here via the loud-
  speaker.  (YES)
Cha'DIch : A defender of Klingon accused.  When a Klingon stands accused of
  something - like Worf does in challenging the judgment against his father -
  he is not allowed combat; the cha'DIch handles such matters.  Worf selects
  Kurn as his cha'DIch, then when Kurn is wounded, Picard is selected.  (SIN)
Chair, Data's : A place of 'honor' that Fajo has prepared for the captive Data,
  which becomes a symbol of Data's strength of will.  By threatening Varria,
  and therefore, life itself, Data is forced to sit in the chair.  (TOY)
Chalice of Rixx : Lwaxana is its holder; in actuality, it is an old clay pot
  with mold growing inside it.  (MEN)
Chalnoth : The inhabitants of Chalna, Esoqq is one of them.  His name means
  "fighter" in the Chalnoth language.  They despise law and government; they
  are strong, obeying no one.  Tholl charges that they live in anarchy, mur-
  dering each other.  (ALL)
Champagne : Ral orders this "for two", he and Deanna.  (PRI)
Chandrans : Inhabitants of Chandra Five.  Peaceful, untroubled people, with
  glacial minds; they have a lovely three-day ritual for saying "Hello". (TIN)
Cheron, Battle Of : The Federation victory over the Romulan Empire, presumably
  the Romulan War of two centuries before.  The humiliating defeat of the
  Romulans has not been forgotten by Romulan leaders.  (DEF)
Chess : When Picard calls for the computer to identify the malfunctions, it
  responds with chess moves - "pawn to king three, knight to rook four, queen
  to bishop three" and so forth (EVO).  Picard compares Romulan strategy and
  tactics to chess: "it is always a chess game with them, isn't it?" (DEF).
  Riker defeats Nibor with the Queen's Gambit and the Aldabren Exchange on
  the Enterprise in thirty moves; he later notes that he could have beaten
  him even in twenty.  Later, when he is captive, Riker points out from his
  cell that Nibor's opponent is two moves away from mating him.  Riker has the
  chance to play him again, which he uses to escape.  (MEN)
Chocolate : A favorite of Troi's when she is upset - she asks for one from the
  computer, not one of its "perfectly synthesized, ingeniously enhanced imita-
  tions".  She also comments to Riker that she hopes there is some chocolate
  around in Ten-Forward.  (PRI)  When Data tells Q of Troi's predilection for
  chocolate when she is in an unhappy mood, he orders ten sundaes - he's 
  "really upset".  (DEQ)
Chrysalians : A neutral race, not as powerful as the Federation but enjoying
  peace for 10 generations.  Ral represents them at the Barzan negotiations, as
  he has represented them before in other deals.  (PRI)
Chula, Valley Of : A location on Romulus.  (DEF)
Class One Probes : Picard sends one to Nelvana Three to monitor it, but the
  probe fails to find anything.  (DEF)  Picard orders one be left to monitor
  the final closure of the temporal rift, in the normal timeline.  (YES)
Class Two Probe : The hytritium is loaded aboard one in order to deliver it
  to the tricyanate water contamination, launched from the Enterprise.  (TOY)
Class Three Probe : The neutrino beacon sent down to Galorndon Core is put
  aboard one of these.  (ENE)
Cloaking Device : Used by both the Romulans and the Klingons.  Their use is
  given away by a visible distortion.  (DEF)
Cloth, Mintakan : Ornament given Picard as a gift by Nuria and the young Haki.
  It is later seen draped over his chair when he is in the midst of the mind-
  meld with Sarek.  (WHO,SAR)
Cochrane Distortion : -see- Signals, Subspace
Coco-No-no : An exotic drink that Geordi offers to Christy.  (BTR)
Colony Operations : The location on Rana that first sends out a distress call,
  then goes emissions quiet.  Picard asks Data to call them first.  (SUR)
Combat Date : -see- Military Log
Combat Information Center : Location on the Enterprise, where Ensign Thomas
  is ordered to via the intercom.  (YES)
"Commodore" : Geordi's nickname for Bochra, the Romulan crash survivor.  (ENE)
Communication : Troi notes that communication is remarkable between alien lan-
  guages, as evidenced in her sezmareth example.  (ENS)
Computer Core : Geordi calls up cross sections of the computer core processor
  451, elements 0200 through 0300.  At element 299 there is a visible lesion,
  leading him to discover the nanite infestation.  (EVO)
Conference Room : Location on the Enterprise; it is filled with a tank with an
  alien substance for the Legarans.  Sarek orders that the walls be bare, that
  the tables and other furniture be removed.  (SAR)
Containment Field : Part of the Enterprise's engines, containing the antimat-
  ter.  Hits on the Enterprise-D from the Klingons cause a breakdown of the
  containment field generator, which threatens to destroy the Enterprise.  Pre-
  sumbly if the alternate timeline continued, it would have.  (YES)
Control Booth : Located above the shuttlebay, John Doe tries to control the
  bay from here and launch in the El-Baz shuttle.  (TRA)
Coolant : A coolant leak is detected in engineering, contributing to the break-
  down of the Enterprise's containment field generator.  (YES)
Correllium Fever : An outbreak of this disease has happened on Nahmi Four, and
  the tissue samples donated by the Mikulaks may be the only aid to curing it.
  (HOL)
Country Medicine : Beverly uses a little old-fashioned country medicine to help
  Patakh; keep the fever down, try to let the body heal itself.  (ENE)
Cryonetrium : Geordi has Picard flood the injector pathway conduits with ga-
  seous cryonetrium, to lower the temperature to -200 degrees Celsius to make
  the invidium contamination inert.  (HOL)
Cryptobiolin : -see- Angosian Alteration.
Cybernetics Conference : Data attended one, which led to his creation of Lal.
  There was a new submicron transfer technology introduced at the conference,
  which Data discovered could be used to lay down complex neural net pathways,
  thereby continuing Dr. Soong's work.  (OFF)
Dachlyds : Neighbors of the planet Gemaris Five, Picard mediated a trade dis-
  pute between the two cultures.  They are very stubborn people.  (CAP)
Damage Control Team Alpha : Geordi orders them to report to Engineering level
  three in the alternate timeline.  (YES)
Daystrom Institute : Vash says she is going to prevent the Tox-Uthat to this;
  in actuality, she is going to sell it, but doesn't get the option.  (CAP)
Daystrom Institute Theoretical Propulsion Group : Part of the Daystrom Insti-
  tute of Technology; this area is where Brahms graduated.  (BTR)
D'daridex-Class : -see- Romulan Warbirds (in Ship Index)
Deflector : Geordi and Wesley and the Engineering team alter the main deflector
  dish in an effort to channel a massive burst of energy at the Borg...the
  use of which will necessitate the lower three decks of the saucer and the
  forward half of the secondary hull.  As Picard/Locutus speaks, Riker prepares
  to use it...  (BBW)
Demon : Lwaxana Troi purposely calls Tog a Demon instead of a DaiMon, his pro-
  per title.  (MEN)
Denkirs : Units of measurement, used by Fajo to measure finoplak.  (TOY)
Dicosilium : The Enterprise brings this material to Dr. Apgar on the Tanuga
  Research Station.  He makes a note of telling Riker that the delivery wasn't
  scheduled for another three months.  (MPR)
Dilithium Chamber : Says Brahms, it is possible to reorient the dilithium
  crystals by adjusting their lattice structure direction.  She further adds
  that this is a feature that will be added to the next class of ship.  Geordi
  is able to reorient them to add power to the Enterprise's shields.  This was
  created at Outpost Seran-T-1.  (BTR)
Dimensional Shifter : A revolutionary new device created by the Ansata to
  "invert" themselves and instantaneously transport anywhere around the planet
  Rutia.  The side effects are warped DNA and rapidly decaying health.  The
  Rutian police has no clue as to how it works, even though they have captured
  several of them.  It cannot be detected by Rutian sensors or those aboard
  the Enterprise.  (HGR)
Director : Title on a Sheliak vessel, analogous to Captain.  (ENS)
Disc : A device that Sovak wants and believes Picard has.  Actually, Vash
  slips it into his robe.  When Picard discovers it, he uses it to bargain with
  Vash to take him along on her expedition....the disc contains the notes of
  Professor Samuel Estragon on his journey to find the Tox-Uthat.  In actuality
  there are two discs; Vash uses the second one, a duplicate, to lead Sovak
  astray.  (CAP)
Discommendation : The final act Worf faces to save the Klingon Empire.  He
  stands before the High Council and accepts their judgment and banishment
  from the Empire in order to one day return to prove his father's innocence.
  Worf accepts it before the Council, and his brother.  (SIN)
Dispersal Pattern Sierra : An Enterprise-D targeting pattern for photon tor-
  pedoes.  (YES)
Disruptors : Romulan weapons, which Tomalak eventually does not use to fire
  on the Enterprise.  (ENE)  Used on the Enterprise in the Tin Man incident
  (TIN).
Distribution Nodes : Parts of the Borg vessel that help power distribution so
  that it doesn't lose power to any point; Beverly, Worf, Shelby and Data beam
  over to knock some out.  (BBW)
Douwd : An immortal being of disguises and false surroundings, one of whom
  has lived in this galaxy for thousands of years and finally metamorphosized
  into the form of Kevin Uxbridge.  (SUR)
Duck Blind : -see- Anthropological Station
Duranium : The Enterprise's interior walls are made out of this; the Krieger
  radiation is capable of making a hole in it.  (MPR)  The test object that
  O'Brien uses in the transporter room is made of duranium, yet it is decimated
  when the transporter fails.  (HOL)
Earl Grey : Tea, Picard's favorite; he offers it to Hanson.  (BBW)
Early Bird : Data does not understand Shelby's joke about the early bird get-
  ting the worm; he notes that there are no known avifaunal or crawling vermi-
  cular lifeforms on Jouret Four.  (BBW)
"Egg" : Stubbs' pet name for his scientific unit, a pod that will study the
  Kavis Alpha explosion at close range.  (EVO)
Elway Theorem : Has to do with dimensional shifting; according to Data, it was
  proved to be entirely inaccurate, and all research was abandoned by the mid-
  23rd century.  Elway used an isolated field coil like the Ansata's dimensio-
  nal shifters used.  It is this theorem that helps Wesley, Data and Geordi
  detect Ansata movements.  (HGR)
Engineering : Hit by the Borg's weapons; the computer notes a decompression
  danger in deck 36, section four, and seals main engineering.  (BBW)
Enterprise Corridors : Danar takes flight in the corridors and Jefferies tubes
  of the Enterprise.  He opens access panel K-12, J-9, Deck 30; flees to Shut-
  tlebay Two; flees again to tube J-4 on Deck 14; opens a panel in tube N-11,
  Deck 38; flees to the cargo bays and then escapes.  An explosion in tube
  section T-95 makes all sensors go inoperative.  (HUN)
Enterprise Shields : At 20 million kilometers from the Lonka Pulsar, the En-
  terprise's shields will be effective for only eighteen minutes (ALL).  Geordi
  increases the shield output to cut off the Koinonians (BON).
Enterprise Systems : The inertia dampeners on the Enterprise fail because of
  the nanite infestation.  There has not been a system-wide technological
  failure on a starship in 79 years.  (EVO)  The Koinonian energy creatures
  tap the Enterprise's matter/antimatter field in order to power the image of
  Jeremy's Earth home and the spectre of Marla.  Geordi increases the shields,
  which momentarily cut them off.  (BON)  The Main Power Return and Secondary
  Power Boost are affected by the Menthar booby traps.  The dilithium crystal
  chamber is reconfigured by Geordi and Leah Brahms (-see- Dilithium Chamber).
  Circuits L-452 to L-575 will accept the reactants from this reconfiguration.
  (BTR)  Barclay says he has been planning to run diagostics on the ship's
  graviton invertor circuits to find out what happened to the anti-grav unit.
  Meanwhile, Geordi has his people realign the magnetic capacitors in both the
  matter and antimatter injectors, as well as do the flow regulator maintenance
  at the same time.  When Barclay says that he'll check for a surge in the
  transfer coils, Wesley notes that a coil surge wouldn't result in field dis-
  sipation; he aught to take a look at the flux capacitor.  There are over
  4000 power systems on the Enterprise that need to be checked.  Finally, the
  antimatter flow regulators fail and the Enterprise speeds out of control.
  Duffy suggests attempting a magnetic quench of the fusion pre-burners, 
  but Geordi already tried it.  Wesley suggests that the fuel inlet servos are
  caught in cycle, but Geordi explains that the swirl dampers would be frozen
  too, and they aren't.  The injectors are simply jammed, due to the invidium
  leak.  Geordi and Barclay are able to reverse it and save the ship.  (HOL)
  Adding preprocessors to the neutrino counters on the ship boosted efficiency
  by eleven percent, an adjustment made by Wesley.  (MEN)
European Alliance : A country on 24th century Earth.  Devinoni Ral was born
  here, in Brussels.  (PRI)
Extradition : In Federation regulations, if an officer is within a planet's
  jurisdiction, the Captain will decide if extradition is warranted.  This
  helps Picard keep Riker aboard the ship to find out the truth.  (MPR)
Felodesine Chip : A small, orange-colored wafer containing a deadly poison
  that Jarok ingests when he realizes his defection was for nothing, killing
  him.  (DEF)
Ferengi : They have never been able to attend the Trade Agreements Conferences
  until it is held on Betazed, and presumably will never again.  Ferengi fe-
  males "do not deserve the honor of clothing".  Ears are their most erogenous
  zone, especially when "giving Oo-mox".  (MEN)  They added pearls to Veltan
  Sex Idols to increase their value.  (TOY)
Ferengi Book of Etiquette : Riker jokes that Tog must have missed the chapter
  in this about the value Starfleet has for its officers.  (MEN)
Ferengi Physiology : Data explains the Betazoids' inability to read Ferengi
  minds because their brains are composed of four different somethings that
  he's unable to specify; Picard cuts him off, as usual.  (MEN)
Finoplak : Fajo uses this solvent to dissolve Data's uniform, though it will
  not damage his skin.  He orders 100 denkirs of it from his replicator.  (TOY)
Flirting : "Visual reconnaissance" as Lal calls to it; Guinan points out that
  it leads to kissing, holding hands and other things that she'd rather have
  Data explain.  (OFF)
Flux Capacitor : An Enterprise technical system; called "flow capacitor" in the
  script.  (An injoke borrowed from "Buckaroo Banzai".)  (HOL)
Food Disk : Shaped like a hockey puck, the alien captors that kidnap Picard,
  Tholl, Esoqq and Haro.  Esoqq cannot eat it; it is therefore a test to see
  if they can relate to the situation.  (ALL)
Food Replicators : Jarok orders water at twelve onkians from one, but it is
  calibrated to the Celsius metric system (DEF).  Deanna and Devinoni Ral
  order champagne from one (PRI).  The Enterprise's complement can provide
  just about anything to anyone.  Riker offers to show Yuta how to use them to
  make Acamarian dishes; Marouk orders a glass of water, five degrees.  (VFA)
Food Slot : Food replicator, one of which malfunctions in sickbay, because of
  the nanite infestation.  (EVO)
Footprint : The Borg's magnetic resonance traces, or "footprint," are detected
  in the remnants of the Jouret Four colony.  (BBW)
Forcefields : Located at corridor junctions on the Enterprise; Picard orders
  that two, A and B on Deck 8, be activated to contain Jeremy Aster and the
  Marla Aster spectre to their quarters.  (BON)  Both Fajo and Varria wear
  force field generators on their belts, proximity-actuated fields that impede
  positron flow.  Very useful for warding off intruders...and Data.  (TOY)
Fungilli : An Italian dish that Brahms makes exceedingly well.  (BTR)
Gal Ga'thong, Firefalls Of : A place on Romulus.  (DEF)
Gamma Field : A low level gamma field reduces the nanites' processing speed.
  A larger burst of gamma rays destroys a large portion of the species.  (EVO)
Gamma Sequence : An Enterprise evasive maneuver.  (YES)
Gatherers : A tribe of nomadic raiders who left their homeworld Acamar Three a
  century ago after blood feuds ravaged the planet.  The Gatherers have raided
  many planets in the vicinity of Acamar; they disrupt trade routes.  The last
  attempt to offer amnesty to them by the Acamarians was 18 years ago.  Chor-
  gon, the leader of the Gatherers, demands autonomy for his people as well
  as three seats on the ruling council if his people are to return.  (VFA)
Gemarians : Picard mediated a trade dispute between them and their neighbors,
  the Dachlyds.  They are incredibly stubborn people.  (CAP)
Ghorusda Disaster : An incident that took place on the planet Ghorusda.  Forty
  seven people were killed, including the captain of the Adelphi and two 
  friends of Riker's from his class at the Academy.  It was a first contact
  situation, and Tam Elbrun feels very guilty about it.  (TIN)
Gold : DaiMon Goss offers a large sum of gold bars to Premier Bhavani in addi-
  tion to matching any offer for the Wormhole.  (PRI)
Gomtuu : -see- Tin Man
Greenlaw-Huffman Scheme : -see- Signals, Subspace
Grizellas : Named by Picard to be the arbitors in the Treaty of Armens "third
  party arbitration" clause.  Since they are currently in a hybernation cycle
  for six months, the Sheliaks concede to Picard.  (ENS)
Gulag : Picard compares the Angosian prison of Lunar Five to the gulags of post
  World War Two.  (HUN)
Gypsy Violins : Geordi comments to Leah that he won't be using these when he
  sees her next; he tried unsuccessfully with Christy.  (BTR)
H-Class Planets : Under the Treaty of Armens, humans may be removed from them
  at the discretion of the Sheliak Corporate in the disputed areas.  (ENS)
Henry V : Data undertakes the role of Henry V in the holodeck, being directed
  by Picard.  Data (as Henry) regers to serving under Thomas Erpingham.  (DEF)
Holding Bay : An undisclosed location where it first appears Picard, Esoqq,
  Kova Tholl and Mitena Haro are brought by alien captors.  They are put
  through a series of tests, including food poisonous to Esoqq, a door that
  will not open without mutual cooperation, and the fact that Haro is really
  a fake, in order to test their resolve....while they test the concepts of
  authority and leadership on the Enterprise.  (ALL)
Holodeck : Geordi creates a beach in the holodeck to romance Christy Henshaw,
  to no avail.  Later, he recreates the design rooms of the Utopia Planitia
  shipyards there as well as creates a facsimile of Enterprise designer Dr.
  Leah Brahms to aid him (holodeck room 3).  Only a ship's captain can over-
  ride holodeck operation (BTR).  Data replays the role of Henry V in the
  holodeck (DEF).  Barclay recreates Ten-Forward, Troi's office and a pastoral
  glade in the holodeck to escape reality (HOL).  Data recreates Romulus for
  Admiral Jarok (DEF).  Picard uses the holodeck to recreate the events lea-
  ding up to the explosion of the Tanuga Research Station, in order to clear
  Riker's name (MPR).  Lal selects her identity in the holodeck with Data and
  Troi (OFF).
Holodeck Program 9 : Barclay has the computer wipe all simulations but this
  one....his only remaining fantasy world.  (HOL)
Holodeck Program 15 : The glade setting, where Troi is the goddess of empathy,
  Beverly is a young maiden, Wesley the Blue Boy, and Picard, Data, Geordi
  and Riker all Musketeers.  (HOL)
Holodeck, Re-Creation : The Tanugan Research Station is recreated by Data on
  the holodeck, by taking testimony from the Away team and from witnesses pro-
  vided by Inspector Krag.  It requires design specifications, full orthogra-
  phic representations of the Krieger equipment and visual representations of
  and voice analyses of the persons involved.  Programming takes Data, Geordi
  and Wesley eighteen hours.  Unfortunately, in recreating the specs, they
  also recreate Apgar's equipment, which is a key element in saving Riker's
  career.  According to Data, the recreation has a nominal 8.7 percent margin
  of error.  (MPR)
"Holodiction" : Addiction to the holodeck, which Geordi says that Barclay can
  write the book on.  Geordi also notes that Barclay's use of the holodeck is
  kind of therapeutic, a sentiment that Troi echoes.  (HOL)
Honesty : "Excessive honesty can be disastrous," says Picard.  Data puts that
  to the test on Tau Cygna V when he uses reverse psychology to convince the
  colonists to leave.  (ENS)
Horga'hn : A Risian statuette; a large rotund idol made of stone.  Riker asks
  Picard to bring him back one.  The Horga'hn is the Risian symbol of sexua-
  lity; to own one is to call forth its powers, to display one is to announce
  that one is seeking Jamaharohn.  (CAP)
Hornbuck : A Mintakan animal; Rabo and Hali were hunting on the third ridge for
  one and found Palmer.  (WHO)
Hoverball : A sport with a hovering ball that seems to annoy Picard.  Joval
  tells him she has yet to master the sport.  (CAP)
Humanity : Says Guinan, it will survive the Borg, as long as there is a handful
  of humans left to keep the spirit alive....they will prevail, even if it
  takes a millenium.  (BBW)
Humpty Dumpty : Another pet name for Stubbs' "egg".  (EVO)
Husnock : A savage race of beings that destroy the colony on the planet Rana
  IV; they were destroyed by the will of Kevin Uxbridge after they killed his
  wife, all fifty billion of them.  (SUR)
Hyperonic Radiation : A form of radiation deadly to humans, though the Tau Cyg-
  nans have survived it.  It interferes with phasers, sensors and transporters.
  Hyperonic radiation is blamed for the loss of 1/3 of the colonists on Tau
  Cygna before they could adapt.  The survival is due to a theory similar to
  that of Minan, who worked with radiation sensitivity.  (ENS)
Hytritium : A rare element that is the only way to combat the tricyanate water
  contamination on Beta Agni Two.  The Enterprise attempts to procure 108 kilos
  of it, but when Data's shuttle explodes, they are only able to get 81.  In
  actuality, the tricyanate was planted, and the 81 kilos is plenty.  Hytritium
  is too unstable for transporters, hence the shuttle transit.  (TOY)
Inoprovaline : Beverly orders 60 cc's of this to prevent a massive infection
  in John's body.  (TRA)
Intercom, Enterprise-D : On the loudspeaker of the Enterprise-D in the alter-
  nate timeline, the following are among the multitude of announcements: "Now
  here this - fleet formation briefing in main warroom in 1500 hours.  Dr.
  Joshua Kim, report to Cetacean Ops.  Ensign Thomas, report to Combat Infor-
  mation Center.  Ensign Thomas to CIC."... plus "Dr. Selar, report to null-G
  ward, stat."... and "Lt. Barrett, report to communications section."  (YES)
Invidium : A substance used in packing by the Mikulaks, it can cause material
  breakdowns.  When it leaks from a tissue sample container, it wreaks havoc
  on Enterprise technical systems, until they are able to stop it.  It has
  been used in medical containment fields for a long time.  It can be stopped
  by a temperature of minus 200 degrees Celsius.  (HOL)
Irish Unification of 2024 : Data compares the Ansata movement to this.  (HGR)
Isolinear Optical Chips : The Enterprise's storage devices; Data finds several
  mechanisms that are analogous to the chips on the Cleponji.  (BTR)
Jakmanite : One of five substances that can alter glass; it has a half life of
  fifteen seconds, so it can't be responsible for the breakdowns.  (HOL)
Jamaharohn : Displaying the Horga'hn is announcing one is seeking Jamaharohn,
  which is presumably sex.  (CAP)
Karst Topography : Sinkholes, underground rivers and caverns around the duck
  blind on Mintaka which are confusing the Enterprise's sensors in their at-
  tempt to locate Palmer.  (WHO)
Kavis Teke Elusive Maneuver : The Menthars were the first to use this.  (BTR)
Kayaking : O'Brien injures his shoulder in a kayaking accident on the holodeck,
  but his shoulder is healed by John's influence.  (TRA)
Kenzie Rebellion : Data compares the Ansata movement to this.  (HGR)
Kerr Loop : The formation of a Kerr loop from superstring material, requiring
  high-energy interactions in the vicinity, would be enough to create the 
  temporal rift, says Data.  (YES)
Khitomer Massacre : The Romulan attack on the Khitomer outpost in the Klingon
  sector that all but destroyed Worf's family, aided by a traitor sending the
  defense access codes to a Romulan war fleet.  Thousands died in the attack.
  Worf went there when Kurn was barely a year old with their parents, who both
  died in the battle.  There were only two survivors, Worf and his nurse, Kah-
  lest.  Worf's father actually went there in pursuit of a traitor, Duras' 
  father, who sent the access codes.  The Klingon High Council, in fear that
  revealing the truth could shatter the Empire because of Duras' position on
  the Council, frames Worf's father, leaving him to make the challenge.  Data
  discovers the basis of the charges against Mogh: the Klingons recently cap-
  tured a Romulan ship with logs that provided new information on the Khitomer
  attack, indicating a transmission moments before the shields dropped using
  Mogh's personal security code.  When Data discovers that the logs of the
  Romulan vessel do not synchronise with the logs of the USS Intrepid, which
  was the first ship on the scene, he realizes that the histories have been
  tampered with.  The Khitomer commander noted in his log that Mogh had been
  acting suspiciously, away from his post for long periods of time, and that he
  had supposedly been sending coded neutrino pulses to a sector within Romulan
  territory.  (SIN)
Kiss : When Ard'rian kisses Data, he believes it an expression of support ra-
  ther than affection or friendship.  He returns the favor later, though due
  to the logic of seeing "she needed one."  (ENS)
Klingons : They believe that in death they should celebrate the release of the
  spirit instead of mourning the loss of the body.  They all hope to die in
  battle, something not taught in the Enterprise's school.  (BON)  How they
  raise their children and their concepts of parenting are beyond what Picard
  wishes to think about.  (OFF)  Q says in his heart he is a Klingon; this only
  causes Worf to become irritated (DEQ).  Promotion due to death of a crewmate
  is commonplace on Klingon ships.  (TOY)
Klingon Age of Ascension : A Klingon rite of manhood.  Kurn was told of the
  truth about his family when he reached this age.  (SIN)
Klingon, Alternate Timeline : The Klingon Empire in the alternate timeline is
  at war with the Federation, has already destroyed half of Starfleet and is
  on the brink of conquering its enemies.  (YES)
Klingon Food : Much more spicy than Federation food; turkey and caviar are,
  as Kurn puts it, too bland for the stomach of a Klingon, though Worf seems
  to disagree.  (SIN)
Klingon High Command (or Council) : They told Worf that he had no living re-
  latives after the Khitomer Massacre, not realizing that Kurn was still alive
  and living with Lorgh's family.  They denounce Worf's father as a traitor.
  Ruled now by K'mpec, with Duras serving there as well.  They receive Worf
  at high sun in one of their Great Halls.
Klingon Honor : More important than a Klingon's life.  (SIN)
Klingon Imperial Empire, First City : Capital of the Empire, located on the
  Klingon Homeworld.  (SIN)
Klingon Justice : The family of a Klingon warrior is responsible for his ac-
  tions, as he is responsible for theirs.  A death punishment means disgrace
  for a family name for seven generations.  The decree can be challenged;
  failure to win means execution.  Worf challenges the decision, but his vic-
  tory is short lives, and interdicted by the Klingon High Council.  (SIN)
Klingon Language, Terms (from SIN; pron. in parentheses):
  'el - Enter!                          Qapla' (KA-pla) - Success!  
  cha'DIch (cha-DEECH) - defender       kut'luch (cut-LOOCH) - weapon
  mev yap! - That is enough!            jIlajneS (ji-LAZH-nesh) - I accept
  len'mat (len-MAHT) - recess           ghojmoK (GOJ-mok) - nurse
  tam! - Be quiet!                      Ha'DIbah (KHA-di-BAKH) - animal
  biHnuch (bekh-NOOCH) - coward         mek'ba (MIK-bah) - trial
  tlhIH ghIj jIHyoj (te-LIKH gizh jikh-YOZH) - I fear your judgment
  ghIj qet jaghmeyjaj (geej ket JAG-mee-jaj) - May your enemies run with fear.
Klingon Language : Jarok refers to Worf as both "Klingon pahtk" and "tohzah",
  both expletives; Riker comments that his knowlege of Klingon curses is
  impressive, then shows him a Romulan one.  (DEF)
Klingon War : According to Worf, many on both the Federation and the Klingon
  Empire's sides died in a war between the two powers, which eventually resul-
  ted in peace.  (ENE)  Later, we are shown what would happen if the Klingons
  and the Federation had gone to war.  (YES)
Knot-Tying : Riker shows Fento the art of tying a better knot....in the act of
  tying the old man up.  (WHO)
Koinonians : Two alien races, one corporeal that fought the Koinonian War and
  destroyed themselves, and one non-corporeal that have survived through the
  millenia.  They diffused all the bombs in the third tunnel but one, which
  killed Marla Aster, then recreated Aster in order to care for her son Jeremy
  because of the guilt they felt.  (BON)
Krieger Waves : A potentially valuable new power source being worked on by Dr.
  Nel Apgar at the Tanuga Research Station, which explodes.  They are created
  on the station in conjunction with a Lambda Field generator.  (MPR)
Kut'luch : A ceremonial weapon of a Klingon assassin.  (SIN)
Lady Luck : It left Geordi "long ago"....he's referring to his losing streak
  in poker.  (ALL)
Lambda Field Generator : Part of the Krieger equipment worked on by Dr. Apgar.
  It requires a minimum of five thousand kilometres for the field to collimate,
  hence it is on the planet.  Because Data recreates the equipment in the holo-
  deck, it becomes active again, and starts beaming Krieger waves back to the
  Enterprise, destroying vital circuitry.  (MPR)
Lang-Cycle Fusion Engines : Powered the Promellian vessel Cleponji; they were
  still intact when the Enterprise found it.  (BTR)
Lapling : A small, sand-burrowing creature, extinct.  Fajo owns the last sur-
  viving member of her species.  A 'defenseless little creature'.  (TOY)
Laughter : Human physiological response to humor; Lal muses that since the
  children laughed with her, she has somehow mastered humor.  Data realizes
  that the children were not laughing with her, but at her.  (OFF)
Lawmim Galactopedia : Rare object owned by Kivas Fajo.  (TOY)
Leadership : Data does not understand the concept of leadership or why a leader
  would choose to visit his people on the night of battle - a situation that
  is paralleled by Admiral Jarok's visit to the Enterprise.  (DEF)
Legarans : A race with whom Sarek will negotiate the final treaty of his long
  career.  They live on Legara Four and must exist in a slimy substance at
  a temperature of 150 degrees Celsius; although not seen, it can be extra- 
  polated that they are *very* alien.  Sarek has worked for ninety-three years
  in preparation for the meeting.  (SAR)
Lepton : Buildup in the accretion disk of mesons and leptons causes Geordi to
  realize the wormhole is unstable.  (PRI)
Leutscher Virus : Its reproduction is similar to that of the nanites.  (EVO)
Level One Diagnostic Series : A computer diagnostic Picard orders run after the
  inertia dampeners fail and the food slot in sickbay goes berserk.  (EVO)
  Picard orders one to be done of Transporter Room Three in the 22 hours remai-
  ning before the ship arrives at Nahmi Four.  (HOL)
Level Two Query : Riker puts out a coded level two query to all Federation out-
  post within the area to look for the Jovis.  (TOY)
Life Sciences : Data is assigned here to head it up on the mission to Beta
  Stromgren.  (TIN)
Little One : Lwaxana Troi's pet name for Deanna, which the latter detests and
  insists she stop saying.  (MEN)
Logic : According to Picard, logic sometimes fails....as in the case of Sarek's
  unwillingness to accept the fact that he is very ill.  (SAR)
Lornack Clan : Rival clan to the Tralestas, its last two survivors are Volneth
  and Chorgon.  Another member was Penthor-Mul.  They massacred the Tralestas
  80 years ago, but there were survivors.  (VFA)
Lucrovexitrin : One of five substances that can alter glass; it is extremely
  toxic, and can't be responsible for the breakdowns.  (HOL)
Lumar Cafe : Katik Shaw was a waiter here; Beverly, Worf and Data were here
  when the Rutian plaza bomb went off.  (HGR)
Lyzomes : Mintakan lyzome levels are much lower than normal humanoids.  (WHO)
Macrospentol : -see- Angosian Alteration.
Magnetometric-guided Charges : "Depth charges" used by the Borg to make the
  Enterprise depart the Paulson Nebula.  (BBW)
Maliamanda Tapestry : Rarity owned by Kivas Fajo.  (TOY)
Manitoba Journal of Interplanetary Psychology : Makes a research inquiry of De-
  anna Troi at the time of the Barzan negotiations.  (PRI)
Marcoffian Snow-lizard : Q could have chosen this instead of human as his
  exile.  (DEQ)
Mariachi Band : Q summons a mariachi band to announce his acceptance back into
  the Q Continuum.  It does not please Picard.  (DEQ)
Martyrs : According to Finn, a dead martyr is worth ten posturing leaders.  He
  eventually becomes one.  (HGR)
Math : One of Wesley's math homework problems is a locally Euclidean metriza-
  tion of a K-Fold contravariant Riemannian tensor field.  Brull's son isn't
  very good at it, though.  (VFA)
Matter Replicator : Picard offers the Uxbridges one that will provide them with
  food, clothing and clean water.  Kevin says they don't need it; Rishon ar-
  gues that they do.  (SUR)
Medical Terminology : Beverly orders a full electrolyte report, and boosting
  of the level of tricordrazine, in her treatment of Rachel Garrett.  (YES)
  Beverly orders cardiostimulation, sixty cc's of inoprovaline, use of the
  protodynoplaser, a full bioscan and the creation of a virus that can infil-
  trate John's cell structure and boost his ATP production.  His arm is kept
  in cryogenic stasis until surgical procedures start.  Later, she comments
  that his bioscan is negative - evidentally good - and that limb refusion
  has been successful, tissue oxygenation is within norms, and his neurofi-
  browaves are functioning almost normally again.  (TRA)
Mek'ba : The Klingon trial that Worf endures to rid his father's name of accu-
  sation.  (SIN)
Menthars : A dead race who fought a war with the Promellians and who constructed
  booby traps in the debris of Orelious Nine using Aceton assimilators.  They
  were exceptionally innovative, first to use the Kavis Teke elusive maneuver,
  and the passive lure strategem similar to a Napoleonic strategy.  (BTR)
Meson : Buildup in the accretion disk of mesons and leptons causes Geordi to
  realize the wormhole is unstable.  (PRI)
Metathalmus : Beverly says that she can grow a culture of Sarek's metathalmus
  to test for Bendii syndrome, but it will take several days.  (SAR)
Metathesis : One of the most common of pronunciation errors, which Picard slips
  into when he calls Barclay "Broccoli".  (HOL)
Mexico : Data compares the Mexican state's independence from Spain on Earth to
  the Ansata movement.  (HGR)
Microvirus : A genetically engineered virus that stops Volnath's autonomic 
  nerve impulses and kills him.  It is transmitted by Yuta, and also killed
  Penthor-Mul.  (VFA)
Mikulaks : A race that donated the tissue samples being transported to Nahmi
  Four to solve the Correllium Fever outbreak.  They use invidium in their
  medical containment units.  (HOL)
Military Log : The altered version of the Captain's Log, used by Picard in the
  alternate timeline.  (YES)
Mind Erasing Technique : Perfected by Doctor Katherine Pulaski (seen last sea-
  son), Beverly is familiar with the procedure.  It nevertheless fails on Liko,
  because Mintakan lyzome levels are much lower.  (WHO)
Mind-Meld : An ancient and time-honored Vulcan practice of linking minds via
  telepathic touch.  Picard and Sarek engage in a mind-meld to stabilize the
  Vulcan during his meeting with the Legarans, an event that pulls Picard to
  the brink.  (SAR)
Mintakans : Proto-Vulcan humanoids at the Bronze Age level, quite peaceful and
  highly rational.  Their lyzome levels are much lower than normal humanoids,
  preventing the mind-erasing technique from being effective.  When Liko is
  saved by Beverly and returned to Mintaka, he begins to spread word that the
  beliefs of their ancestors - beliefs in superstition and false gods - are
  really true, a step back in their evolution.  Picard eventually brings Nuria
  to the ship, and journeys to Mintaka himself, to halt the belief.  In Min-
  takan culture, the women precede their mates, a signal to other women that
  if they want his services, she is the one to negotiate with.  (WHO)
Mizarians : Inhabitants of Mizar Two.  They have survived by not resisting
  (and have been conquered six times in the last 300 years).  (ALL)
Molybdenum-Cobalt Alloys : Something Data is composed of.  (TOY)
Moropa : A race that maintains an uneasy truce with the Bolians.  (ALL)
Mosquito : Beverly suggests looking at the Borg ship from a mosquito's point
  of view; if they sting it in a tender spot, they might stop a minute to
  scratch, so that the Enterprise can fire.  (BBW)
Motor Assist Bands : Used to provide electrical stimulation to arms and legs,
  used by John Doe when learning to walk again.  (TRA)
Muktok Plants : Riker and Troi planted one in a clearing on Betazed when they
  were originally going out; when they return, they find it is still there.
  They emit music, and live for hundreds of years.  (MEN)
Music Box : Something that Rishon Uxbridge owns, which when activated runs a
  nice little waltz...a waltz that Kevin Uxbridge projects into Troi's mind to
  keep her from finding out his secret.  The waltz nearly drives her mad, but
  Kevin stops it after his secret is discovered by Picard.  (SUR)
Musketeers, The Three: Picard, Geordi and Data, as well as a fourth one, 
  Riker, are created by Barclay in his holodeck program 15.  (HOL)
Nanites : Tiny robots with gigabytes of mechanical computer memory, usually
  used in sickbay genetics systems to enter living cells and conduct repairs.
  Wesley took two to see how they would interact and function in tandem, to
  make a better nanite, but they escaped.  They were originally created at a
  plant in Dakar, Senegal, on Earth.  Stubbs refuses to believe that they might
  have achieved intelligence, but they nevertheless do.  (EVO)
Nanotechnology : -see- Nanites
Navigational Chart : Provided by the escape pod's storage capsule; Geordi and
  Data use it to navigate a flight path past several G-type stars and neutron
  stars or pulsars to the planet Zalkon.  (TRA)
Neutral Zone : The Federation/Romulan buffer zone.  A Romulan vessel comes
  through and crashes on Galorndon Core, possibly part of a new Romulan offen-
  sive.  Later, Tomalak violates the Zone in order to rescue his two missing
  men.  (ENE)  Sensors later detect a ship heading for it; it turns out to
  be Jarok's escape ship.  (DEF)
Neutrino Beacon : Wesley's answer to the problem of solving Geordi's disappea-
  rance.  He sets up a portable neutrino source that acts like a beacon, which
  Geordi would modify to show the Enterprise he's found it.  The neutrino 
  beacon is put aboard a class three probe.  (ENE)
Neutronium : Its decay in the Kavis Alpha explosion will be studied by Dr.
  Stubbs.  (EVO)
New Martim Vaz : An aquatic city in Earth's Atlantic Ocean.  Kevin and Rishon
  Uxbridge are originally from there.  (SUR)
Nitrogen Oxide : The nanites cause this to be released onto the bridge, but
  Picard is able to stop it.  The incident is in retaliation for Stubbs' des-
  truction of a nanite colony.  (EVO)
Noranium Alloy : Found at the Gatherer encampment on Gamma Hromi II.  It va-
  porizes at 2314 degrees using phaser setting 7; Data begins to explain some-
  thing about noranium carbide but he is interrupted by Riker.  (VFA)
Norep : Drug that Beverly orders be used on Warren, two cc's.  It fails to save
  her.  (WHO)
Norkan Massacre : Known as the Norkan Campaign in the Romulan Empire, it was
  led against the Federation by Admiral Jarok.  (DEF)
Nucleo-Synthesis : The affliction on the Enterprise due to the invidium leaks
  from the tissue sample containers.  (HOL)
Null-G Ward : Dr. Selar is ordered here via the Enterprise intercom.  (YES)
Old Faithful : Stubbs compares the Kavis Alpha explosion to this monument on
  Earth.  (EVO)
Onkians : A Romulan measurement of temperature.  (DEF)
Oo-mox : Part of Ferengi sensuality; giving Oo-mox is analogous to rubbing the
  ears, a Ferengi's most erogenous zone.  (MEN)
Orion Wing-Slugs : Lwaxana says she'd rather eat these than deal with a toad-
  faced troll like Tog.  (MEN)
Oskoid : A Betazoid food that Lwaxana has Riker and Troi taste; the sap keeps
  it deliciously warm.  (MEN)
Overseer : A Mintakan superstition, in which interest is renewed by Liko's
  story of "the Picard".  He was said to be all powerful, and could provide
  gentle winters, plentiful hunting and fertile crops. (WHO)
Painting : It is a subject Picard enjoys in an art class, as well as two other
  students, Lt. Wright and Ensign Williams.  (MPR)  There is a Piet Mondrian
  painting on Data's wall, a simplistic, rectangular shaped painting.  (OFF)
  Kivas Fajo owns a rare Salvador Dali painting.  (TOY)  Data has been working
  on a painting (which looks surprisingly like the vortex from "Time Squared")
  for several months.  (TIN,TOY)
Parenting : A concept that Data and Picard both fail to fully comprehend.  Pi-
  card doubts the use of the word "child" on Lal, a five foot android with
  heuristic learning systems and the strength of ten men, but Data persists,
  and Troi notes that Picard has never been a parent.  Data notes that there
  is much confusion on the subject; one traditional doctrine says "spare the
  rod and spoil the child" but others tend to be more liberal.  (OFF)
Parthus : A green vegetable with fleshy roots indigenous to Acamar Three.  Used
  in Yuta's "spiced parthus" dish, her specialty which Riker calls "parthus a
  la Yuta".  (VFA)
Passive Lure Strategem : The Menthars were the first to use this.  (BTR)
Patches : Jeremy Aster's cat, a Calico, now gone.  (BON)
Pearl Harbor : An incident in Earth's history that Picard compares to the situ-
  ation on Galorndon Core.  (ENE)
Pericules : Ferengi flowers that Tog notes are a gift for one - Lwaxana - whose
  beauty surpasses them.  Their species is Zan Periculi, indigenous to Lappa
  IV, a Ferengi world.  Lwaxana tosses them into a pond.  (MEN)
Phasers : They cannot function in hyperonic radiation, though Data uses his own
  servocircuts to recollimate the output; in effect, he uses his own neurocir-
  cuit to build a "smarter" phaser (ENS).  Kevin Uxbridge uses a low-yield
  phaser, nonfunctional, to hold the away team at bay.  It was an act of
  unmitigated gall, which Worf says he admires (SUR).  Roga Danar uses phasers
  as bombs as well as a power source for the transporter.  (HUN)  According
  to available data, a phaser was fired from Riker's position just moments
  before he was beamed away from the Tanuga Research Station, causing a power
  drain.  Actually, it was merely focused on Riker's beamout, by Dr. Apgar,
  and was instrumental in the destruction of the station.  (MPR)  Based upon
  Geordi's shield nutation, Data and Shelby devise a plan to fluctuate phaser
  resonance frequencies to offset the Borg defenses.  (BBW)
Photograph : A photo of the Penthor-Mul trial shows up in the Acamarian Data-
  base transmitted to the Enterprise.  Riker uses the computer to extrapolate
  a shadowy figure which proves to be Yuta, the "missing link" in the Volnath
  murder.  (VFA)
Phyrox Plague : A deadly plague that ravaged Cor Caroli Five.  (ALL)
Pi : Code name for the Romulan scout vessel on Galorndon Core.  (ENE)
"Picard, The" : The newest Mintakan superbeing, created by Liko when he visited
  the Enterprise.  The real Picard eventually must return to Mintaka to con-
  vince them he is mortal.  (WHO)
Pileggi Sequence : -see- Signals, Subspace
Pleasure Haven : The Risian resort that Picard visits on his vacation, where
  he gets involved with Vash and the pursuit of the Tox-Uthat.  (CAP)
Poker : Riker conducts Master classes in it.  (PRI)  Riker, Geordi, Data, Troi
  and Worf play it en route to the Lonka Pulsar in Data's quarters.  The game
  is interrupted by the False Picard.  (ALL)  Two of Data's most prized pos-
  sessions were his poker chips and a pack of playing cards, which Geordi and
  Wesley give to Commander Riker when Data is seemingly killed.  (TOY)  Riker
  says there's always a seat for Hanson in their poker games.  Shelby beats
  Riker's bluff in a game between Wesley, Data, Troi, Geordi and themselves.
  (BBW)
Power Drain : The Enterprise's matter/antimatter pods are drained by the Koi-
  nonians in order to create the fake Marla Aster.  (BON)  A miniscule power
  drain detected on the Tanuga Research Station before it explodes is enough
  to convince Inspector Krag that Riker fired a phaser at the reactor.  (MPR)
Prime Directive : Violated accidentally on Mintaka, Picard realizes he must
  do the same to reset the balance.  (WHO)
Probe, Barzan : Ended up in the Denkiri Arm in the Gamma Quadrant, 100 years at
  Warp Nine distant.  (PRI)
Promellians : A race of beings, now presumably vanished from space, who fought
  a devastating war with their rivals, the Menthars.  A Promellian battlecrui-
  ser, the Cleponji, was caught in a Menthar booby trap in the wreckage of
  the devastated planet Orelious Nine.  (BTR)
Protodynoplaser : Medical device used to stabilize John's immune system.  (TRA)
Proto-Vulcan : Picard's painting contains, in Data's opinion, unsettling over-
  tones of proto-Vulcan influences.  (MPR)
Prune Juice : A "warrior's drink," says Worf of this Earth delicacy.  (YES)
Pyrocytes, Blood : A distillation of these causes an extreme allergic reaction
  in other people; Arridor uses Goss' pyrocytes on his hand to incapacitate
  Mendoza during the Barzan negotiations.  (PRI)
Q Continuum : The race of beings that Q belongs to.  He was kicked out on the
  urging of Q2 in order to learn something about mortality.  (DEQ)
Quantum Phase Inhibitor : -see- Tox-Uthat
Queen's Gambit : One of Riker's moves in a chess game with Nibor.  (MEN)
Quotations, Picard's : When he is bargaining for Lwaxana's release, he must
  quote poetry.  Among them are "My love is a fever..." from Shakespeare's
  Sonnet 147; "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day...." from Sonnet 18;
  "In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes..." from Sonnet 141; "Tis better
  to have loved and lost..." from Tennyson; and "When I have plucked the
  rose..." from Browning.  (MEN)  "Now if these men do not die well, it will
  be a black matter for the King that led them to it," in Shakespeare's Henry
  V.  (DEF)  "He was a man, take him for all in all.  I shall not look upon
  his like again", referring to Data, from Hamlet, Act One, Scene Two.  (TOY)
Radiation : After the shields are forcibly dropped in the Orelious Nine area,
  there are 30 minutes until fatal exposure to radiation is registered.  The
  time drops to 26 minutes when Picard fires the phasers.  The radiation is
  caused by the Aceton assimilators.  (BTR)  Caused by the Krieger generator
  accidentally duplicated in the holodeck and the corresponding Lambda Field
  generator on the planet.  The radiation events occur five hours, twenty
  minutes and three seconds apart; the science station exploded at almost
  exactly four times that interval, with a .0014 second variance that Geordi
  finally explains as Apgar's murder attempt.  The radiation causes a break-
  down outside Cargo Bay 12 and in sickbay.  (MPR)
Rejac Crystal : Rare object owned by Kivas Fajo.  (TOY)
Replicators : The food and material creation system on the Enterprise.  Data
  notes that a problem with the replicator would have resulted in the tampering
  of Duffy's glass AND the substance inside.  (HOL)  The molecules of ribosomes
  are too complex to reproduce in the Enterprise's replicator.  (ENE)
Ribosomes : Patakh needs a transfusion of compatible ribosomes, and the only
  donor possible is Worf.  Patakh dies.  (ENE)
Rigellian Phaser Rifles : The Gatherers ambush the away team on Gamma Hromi II
  with these.  (VFA)
Right of Vengeance : A Romulan claim; the Romulan Commander at Beta Stromgren
  demands this after Tin Man destroys their other ship.  (TIN)
Roman Empire : Picard wonders if the Emperor Honorious watching the Visigoths
  coming over the seventh hill could truly realize that the Roman Empire was
  about to fall....another page of history, like their standoff with the Borg
  threat.  (BBW)
Romulans : Picard notes that his people would be a lot safer on Earth rather
  than at the Neutral Zone at the risk of a Romulan attack; it is this that
  he uses to excuse his rationale that children should never be aboard.  (BON)
  According to Data, in their long history, they have rarely attacked first;
  they prefer to test their enemy's resolve.  (DEF)  Q insults Worf by calling
  him a Romulan, after deciding it would have been better to be one.  (DEQ)
  At Narendra Three, twenty-two years ago, they attacked the Narendra Three
  outpost.  When the Enterprise-C escaped through time, all record of the
  battle was lost and the Klingons assumed the Federation attacked them.  When
  the ship returned, and was presumably destroyed, the Romulan influence was
  discovered, and the Klingons allied with the Federation against them.  (YES)
  Haftel notes that one lucky shot like a Romulan would completely obliterate
  the only two Soong-type androids in existence, Data and Lal.  (OFF)  They
  attacked the Khitomer Outpost with the help of Duras' father, but Worf's
  father, Mogh, was blamed for it.  (SIN)  Tholl wonders if his captors could
  be Romulan, something that Picard briefly entertains.  (ALL)  They claim
  the sector of space where Beta Stromgren is located; Worf notes that they
  claim all within their field of vision.  They send two ships to investigate
  Tin Man; one is destroyed by it, the other one thrown into space.  (TIN)
Romulan Ale : Jarok says he doesn't suppose the Enterprise's food replicators
  can prepare a Romulan Ale.  Data says no, because their knowledge of his
  planet is quite limited.
Romulan Empire : Bochra counters Geordi's sarcasm with the pledge that, in a
  few millenia, humans will be extinct and the Romulan Empire will span the
  galaxy.  (ENE)
Romulan Language : According to Riker, "only a veruul would use such language
  in public," meaning Jarok's use of Klingon curses.  Veruul is obviously an
  expletive.  (DEF)
Romulan Physiology : There are subtle differences between them and Vulcans,
  too many of them to make Vulcan treatment effective.  (ENE)
Ruling Council, Acamarian : Chorgon wants the Gatherers to have three seats on
  this governmental body.  (VFA)
R'uustai : "The Bonding," a Klingon ritual that strengthens family lines and
  creates brothers between those who are not related.  It is a ceremony that
  involves the extinguishing of a candle representing one who has died, then
  lighting others to signify a new relationship being created.  Worf and Jeremy
  Aster use this to help themselves get over the death of Marla Aster.  (BON)
Saltzgadum : A substance that can alter glass and may be responsible for the
  Enterprise's breakdowns, but it hasn't been used for centuries.  (HOL)
Security Station : On deck nine, Worf talks to the Klingons from here.  (DEF)
Selgninaem : One of five substances that can alter glass; it is extremely
  toxic, and can't be responsible for the breakdowns.  (HOL)
Senate, Angosian : A "repository of wisdom and law" on Angosia, it was here
  that the decision was made to isolate the Angosian veterans from the Tarsian
  War.  (HUN)
Sheliak Corporate : A race of beings from the Shelius star system that has re-
  fused contact with the Federation for 111 years.  They are crystalline in
  appearance, and although they have learned several Federation languages, hu-
  mans haven't learned theirs.  They consider humans an "infestation," not a
  race.  It was by the Treaty of Armens that they finally left the Federation
  alone; now they want to colonize Tau Cygna V, which is already inhabited by
  humans from the lost colony ship, Artemis.  (ENS)
Shield Nutation : A process Geordi devises to aid the Enterprise.  Shield nu-
  tation is derived from changing frequencies in order to combat the Borg's
  weaponry.  It is partially successful.  (BBW)
Shore Leave : Picard is forced to endure this because of Riker's constant in-
  sistance (CAP); later, he gets to take his revenge when he orders Riker to
  accompany Troi on hers.  (MEN)
Shuttlebays : The main bay is located on Deck Four (DEQ).  Stubbs' egg resides
  in Two (EVO).  Data overrides Danar's tampering and shuts Two down; it is
  25 decks up from engineering (HUN).  Data contacts Two to prepare the Enter-
  prise for his docking (TOY).  John comes to Two in an effort to escape the
  Enterprise (TRA).
Sickbay : Radiation emissions are detected here, prompting the evacuation of
  sickbay.  It is related to the Krieger generator.  (MPR)
Signals, Subspace : Sent by Riker, made to sound like Algolian Ceremonial Rhy-
  thms.  The repetitive nature of the subcarrier pattern would imply a modi-
  fied Greenlaw-Huffman encoding scheme, says Data; Geordi reverses the 
  algorhythm with a Pileggi sequence.  Geordi finds Cochrane distortion in the
  static of the subspace signals, but Wesley notes the pattern, thereby deter-
  mining Riker's location.  (MEN)
Sleep : A human concern that Q finds extremely frightening.  (DEQ)
Song, False Picard's : Whilst in Ten-Forward, the false Picard breaks into a
  cheery song called "Heart of Oak" (sometimes called "Hearts of Oak"), writ-
  ten by William Boyce (music) and David Garrick (words).  It was written for
  a pantomime production called "Harlequin's Invasion" produced in 1759.  It
  begins, "Come Cheer Up, Me Lads..."  (ALL)
Spectre, Koinonian : An image of blue light that aids the Marla image in resto-
  ring the transporters and stopping the Enterprise from cutting off power to
  her quarters.  (BON)
S'smarith : A test Troi uses.  Holding a coffee cup and stating the word, she
  asks Picard whether she meant the cup, the glass it's made of, the liquid,
  clear, brown, hot.  Picard is unsure, demonstrating the precision needed in
  communication between alien races.  (ENS)
Stacius Trade Guild : Kivas Fajo is a member.  (TOY)
Stakes : Geordi is able to use his phaser to recrystallize material he finds
  to make stakes to pull himself out of the pit he fell into.  (ENE)
Starfleet Academy : Cadet Mitena Haro studied Picard's missions at the Academy,
  evidentally required reading.  When Picard was here, he and his fellows would
  follow each toast with a song.  (ALL)  Wesley's entrance exam scores come
  back and he is finally accepted.  Data notes that 91% of its graduates are
  not assigned to Galaxy class vessels, which means that Wesley may not be
  back.  (MEN)
Starfleet Exchange Program : A Federation/Klingon exchange of officers for
  mutually beneficial training.  In return for Riker's visit to the Pagh, the
  Enterprise takes aboard Commander Kurn.  (SIN; used last year in "A Matter
  of Honor)
Starfleet Priority One Signal : Admiral Haftel sends this to Picard to stop
  the Enterprise and wait for his arrival to meet Lal first hand.  (OFF)
Starfleet Tactical : Admiral Hanson and Lt. Commander Shelby are from here,
  brought to the Enterprise to ascertain the Borg threat.  (BBW)
Starithium Ore : Located in the rocks of Risa, which Vash says is interfering
  with her sensor readings trying to find the Tox-Uthat.  (CAP)
Starry Night : Famous painting created by Vincent van Gogh in 1889, now owned
  by Kivas Fajo.  (TOY)
"Stars and Stripes Forever" : A song composed by John Phillips Sousa, a popular
  American composer of band music in the early 20th century, which is broadcast
  aboard the ship by the malfunctioning computer.  (EVO)
Storage Capsule : An informational capsule found in the wreckage of John Doe's
  escape pod.  It is a biochemical storage medium with memory RNA, containing
  quantities of nucleic acids.  It reveals to Geordi and Data a navigational
  chart leading back to Zalkon.  (TRA)
Subcutaneous Communicators : Implanted on Riker and Troi so that transmissions
  from the Enterprise will be inaudible to the Mintakans.  (WHO)
Subhadar : A rank during the Tarsian War, which Danar became.  (HUN)
Substances, Undetectable : 15,525 exist that cannot be detected by standard
  scans.  532 of them can exist in an oxygen atmosphere, and only five -
  jakmanite, selgninaem, lucrovexitrin, saltzgadum and invidium - can alter
  molecular structure when in contact with a glass.  (HOL)
Synthehol : The alcoholic substitute used on the Enterprise.  Worf gets tired
  of listening to Geordi and Data talk about the storage capsule and asks for
  less talk, more synthehol.  (TRA)
Tao-Classical Music : Rishon Uxbridge is a composer of this.  (SUR)
Tarsian War : The Angosians recovered very rapidly from this.  The Tarsian War
  was the incident that made the Angosians alter their warriors.  (HUN)
Tellurian Spices : The Andorians wish to bid for this, right in the middle of
  Fajo's interrogation of Data; they've had four days to decide.  (TOY)
Temporal Rift : A time displacement with no discernable event horizon
Ten-Forward : The Enterprise's central social point, a bar, a restaurant, and
  a lounge.  Beverly comes here to visit Guinan (EVO).  Data and his fellow
  musicians hold a concert here (ENS).  Picard hosts a party here to watch
  the newest opening of the Barzan Wormhole here (PRI), Yuta prepares parthus
  for Riker and Troi here (VFA), and Q comes here to drown his sorrows (DEQ).
  It is a mess hall in the alternate timeline (YES).  Lal comes here to work
  to learn about human socializing (OFF).  Beverly suggest she and the false
  Picard have dinner here, but he suggests something more intimate....his 
  quarters (ALL).  Barclay recreates this in the holodeck where he can stand
  up to Riker and romance Troi (HOL).  A bar-brawl erupts here after a fight
  between O'Brien and a science crewman (SAR).  Picard hosts the party after
  the Trade Agreements Conference on Betazed here (MEN), Geordi and Christy
  go on a date here (TRA) and Picard comes here to talk to Guinan about the
  mission and Borg threat upon them (BBW).  Guinan is the hostess here.
Thalium Compound : Located in the rock strata of Mintaka, a high concentration
  is interrupting normal sensor probes.  (WHO)
Thrusters : The Enterprise uses two thrusters to break free from the Menthar
  booby trap, without aid from the impulse engines or warp drive.  (BTR)
Tin Man : Also known as Gomtuu, it is an organic creature, born in space, li-
  ving in the wastes between stars.  The Enterprise discovers it and finds out
  it is an organic spacecraft whose crew is dead, killed by an explosion and
  a subsequent massive dosage of lethal radiation, and is in contact with Tam
  Elbrun, the Federation mission specialist sent to warn it about the impen-
  ding destruction of Beta Stromgren, the planet it is orbiting.  Linguacode
  and universal translation have been attempted, to no avail; it is too dif-
  ferent.  Tin Man tries to destroy itself because of the losses it has felt,
  but is saved when Tam Elbrun joins with it.  Gomtuu is possibly the last of
  its kind, and has been alone for millenia.  (TIN)
Tissue Samples : Being shipped by the Enterprise to Nahmi Four, one of them
  contains a cracked seal, through which invidium escapes.  (HOL)
T-K-L's : Standard rations; the Enterprise's food replicators are on minimum
  power for the benefit of the defensive systems, so these are provided.  Tasha
  orders two, one for her and one for Castillo.  (YES)
Tonkian Homing Beacons : Found at the Gatherer encampment.  (VFA)
Tox-Uthat : A Quantum Phase Inhibitor, capable of halting all nuclear reaction
  in a star, created by a scientist named Kal Dano in the mid-Twenty-Seventh
  Century....and in reality, a fist-sized crystal cube.  Criminals attempted
  to steal it from Dano, who fled into the twenty-second century to hide it,
  and did so...on Risa.  The criminals are Vorgons, who pose as security agents
  in order to get Picard to turn the device over to them.  It was located by
  Professor Samuel Estragon on Risa, who died before he found it...though, 
  using a disc filled with his notes, Vash and Sovak are both on the trail of
  the device.  Actually, Vash found it when she arrived, and hid it.  Picard
  detonates it to keep it out of Vorgon hands.  (CAP)
Trade Agreements Conference : Held biennially, this time around on Betazed.
  The Ferengi come here to participate for the first time, and presumably the
  last -- they kidnap Lwaxana Troi.  The Enterprise holds the closing reception
  of the conference.  (MEN)
Trading Card, Roger Maris : The only known Roger Maris baseball card from
  Earth, circa 1962, in existence, owned by Fajo.  He has preserved the scent
  of bubblegum from it.  (TOY)
Trafalgar : Picard muses that his situation is not unlike Nelson's tour of the
  HMS Victory before Trafalgar, but then, Nelson never came home from Trafalgar
  even though the battle was won.  (BBW)
Tralesta Clan : Rival clan to the Lornacks of Acamar III.  Five survived the
  Lornack massacre of the clan; Yuta is the last survivor and tries to defeat
  Chorgon, last member of the Lornacks.  (VFA)
Transporters : Geordi states that after 15 years and research by a team of 100,
  they will probably be able to transport through hyperonic radiation.  (ENS)
Transporter Rooms : Two beams Admiral Jarok (Setal) to the Enterprise (DEF).
  Three is where Data escorts Krag to to beam down before the holodeck hearing
  (MPR), where the invidium leak wreaks havoc on its systems (HOL), where the
  away team beams down to Zeta Gelis (TRA) and what locks onto Q when he
  escapes in an Enterprise shuttle (DEQ).  Four is where Roga Danar arrives
  when he is captured (HUN).
Transporter Code Fourteen : Picard signals this to Riker when detonating the
  Tox-Uthat, which has the Enterprise beam it into space.  (CAP)
Traps : Wesley sets up traps all over the ship to catch the nanites.  (EVO)
Treaty of Algeron : Entering the Neutral Zone is a direct violation of this;
  presumably, it is the treaty that ended the Romulan war 200 years ago.  (DEF)
Treaty of Armens : The treaty that established a peace, or at least a status
  quo, between the Federation and the Sheliak Corporate.  Section 133, para-
  graph 7 states that Tau Cygna V is a Sheliak planet and the humans now pre-
  sent are a treaty violation.  Paragraph 653, subparagraph 9 dictates the 
  entitlement to conversation Picard needs to talk to them.  Section 501, pa-
  ragraph 716, subparagraph five states, "unwanted humans on H-class planets 
  may be removed at the discretion of the Sheliak Corporate."  Paragraph 1290,
  subsection D3 is what Picard finally uses in his Tau Cygna V dispute: it
  allows for third-party arbitration and Picard names the Grizellas, currently
  in their hybernation cycle which will last for six months.  The treaty itself
  took 372 legal experts to negotiate and its extreme wordiness -- over five
  hundred thousand words -- was to accomodate the Sheliaks, who frowned on the
  lack of exactness in human language.  (ENS)
Triclendil : -see- Angosian Alteration.
Tricorder : Beverly hooks Geordi's and John Doe's nervous systems together,
  strengthening the latter's.  It stabilizes him long enough to get him to the
  Enterprise's sickbay.  (TRA)
Tricordrazine : Beverly asks for an increase in the level of this drug when
  treating Liko.  (WHO)  Beverly orders a boost of the level of tricordrazine
  to heal Rachel Garrett.  (YES)
Tricyanate : The substance that has contaminated the water supply of Beta Agni
  Two.  In actuality, it was planted by Fajo, enough to have the 81 kilos of
  hytritium able to negate it.  Its highest concentration is 8 kilometers west
  of the Agni colony, in thirty square kilometers.  The hytritium delivery
  should have taken several hours; when naturally occurring, it does not neu-
  tralize so easy.  It is slow to assimilate, difficult to replicate, and hard
  to transport.  (TOY)
Trillium 323 : Mineral found on Caldonia; Riker tries to make a trade agree-
  ment for it with them to offer to the Barzans in the Wormhole negotiations,
  but Ral has already bought the rights.  (PRI)
Tripolymer Composites : Data's main element of composition.  (TOY)
Turkey : Kurn was told to expect the human custom of cooking food before eating
  it, especially when confronted with a roasted turkey replicated by the food
  processors.  Kurn doesn't find it, or the caviar he smears on it, palatable
  in the least.  (SIN)
Ultritium : Traces of ultritium residue, an explosive, are found on the wrec-
  kage of the Romulan vessel.  (ENE)
Universal Gravitational Constant : Q suggests to Geordi and Data that they
  alter this, so that they may solve the problem of Bre'el Four's moon.  The
  suggestion is beyond the realm of human capacity, notes Data.  (DEQ)
Uttaberries : Lwaxana sends Homn to pick some; when he returns, she, Deanna and
  Riker are gone - kidnapped by the Ferengi.  (MEN)
Varon-T Disruptor : Banned within the Federation, only five exist, four owned
  by Kivas Fajo.  He sleeps with one under his pillow.  The Varon-T tears a
  body from the inside out, quite slowly, a tortuous, painful death.  He gets
  the chance to test it, on Varria.  (TOY)
Vega Nine Probe : The probe sent to the Beta Stromgren system.  The Enterprise
  follows its telemetry after it discovers Tin Man.  (TIN)
Veltan Sex Idol : Toff says he's added one to his collection with the pearls
  intact; Fajo responds by saying he has four of them, and the pearls were
  added by the Ferengi to increase the value.  (TOY)
Verustin Infection : Jeremy Aster's father died five years ago of this.  (BON)
Violence : This disgusts Picard, who has never subscribed to the theory that
  political power flows from a gun.  (HGR)
Virotherapy : Minan's work with radiation sensitivity determined that humans
  can survive hyperonic radiation with intensive virotherapy.  (ENS)
VISOR : Geordi's sight instrument, which is seriously hampered by the atmos-
  pheric effects of Galorndon Core.  Bochra is surprised by the VISOR, wonde-
  ring why his parents chose to let him live, a waste of time and resources on
  defective children.  Bochra and Geordi alter it to be a neutrino geiger
  counter to get to Wesley's neutrino beacon and to safety.  (ENE)
Vorgons : A race of beings from the Twenty-Seventh Century, two of whom -
  Ajur and Boratus - come back to visit Picard on Risa, searching for the Tox-
  Uthat.  In actuality, they are the criminals that scientist Kal Dano tried
  to hide the Uthat from in the first place.  (CAP)
Vunderkind : German term for "wonder child", something that Stubbs has had to
  live with for a long time.  He says it is reserved for those who achieve
  early in life....and hands the term to Wesley.  (EVO)
Warm Milk : What Barclay always orders in sickbay; Guinan says it helps one
  sleep.  (HOL)
Window, Storm : Picard must depend on a window in the storms on Galorndon Core
  in order to beam Geordi back to the ship.  They nearly miss the window when
  they are forced to raise shields, but on good faith, they lower them and the
  Romulans don't attack.  (ENE)
Wogneer Creatures : -see- Ordek Nebula (in Location Guide)
Women : Worf observes that human women are too fragile, and that to seek com-
  panionship, he would require a Klingon woman.  (YES)
Wormhole : Picard wonders if the temporal rift is a wormhole; Data observes
 that it is actually a time displacement.  (YES)  Also -see- Barzan Wormhole.
Zalkonians : Inhabitants of Zalkon.  They are ruled by fascists who oppose
  the inevitable transformation of their people into noncorporeal beings....
  until John Doe comes along.  (TRA)
Zalkonian Weapon : An unseen device that affects all humanoids on the Enter-
  prise by choking them....although how it is done is unknown.  John Doe is
  able to stop it with his "energy pulse".  (TRA)
Zan Periculi : -see- Pericules
Zibalians : Inhabitants of the planet Zibalia.  Kivas Fajo is from here.  They
  are very much like humans but have certain amounts of fleshy skin on their
  face.  (TOY)

==== WRITER'S GUIDE ===========================================================
Bailey, Dennis Putman : Writer, "Tin Man" (with Bischoff)
Beagle, Peter S. : Television Story & Teleplay, "Sarek"
Behr, Ira Stephen (Producer) : Teleplay, "Yesterday's Enterprise" (with Man-
  ning, Beimler and Moore); Writer, "Captain's Holiday"
Beimler, Hans (Co-Producer) : Writer, "Who Watches the Watchers" (with Man-
  ning), "Allegiance" (with Manning); Teleplay, "Yesterday's Enterprise" (with
  Behr, Manning and Moore)
Bernheim, Robin : Writer, "The Hunted"
Bischoff, David : Writer, "Tin Man" (with Bailey)
Bronson, Fred : Writer, "Menage a Troi" (with Sackett)
Caves, Sally : Writer, "Hollow Pursuits"
Cushman, Marc : Unpublished Story, "Sarek" (with Jacobs)
Danus, Richard (Executive Story Editor) : Teleplay, "Booby Trap" (with Roman &
  (Piller); Writer, "Deja Q"
Deighan, Drew : Original Teleplay, "Sins of the Father"
Echevarria, Rene : Writer, "The Offspring," "Transfigurations"
Ganino, Trent Christopher : Story, "Yesterday's Enterprise" (with Stillwell)
Goodhartz, Shari : Writer, "The Most Toys"
Jacobs, Jake : Unpublished Story, "Sarek" (with Cushman)
Kemper, David : Writer, "The Enemy" (with Piller)
Manning, Richard (Co-Producer) : Writer, "Who Watches the Watchers" (with Beim-
  ler), "Allegiance" (with Beimler); Teleplay, "Yesterday's Enterprise" (with
  Behr, Beimler and Moore)
Moran, W. Reed : Teleplay, "Sins of the Father" (with Moore)
Moore, Ronald D. : Story Editor; Writer, "The Bonding," "The Defector"; Tele-
  play, "Yesterday's Enterprise" (with Behr, Beimler and Manning), "Sins of
  the Father" (with Moran)
Piller, Michael (Co-Executive Producer) : Writer, "Evolution" (story with 
  Wagner), "The Enemy" (with Kemper), "The Best of Both Worlds"; Teleplay, 
  "Booby Trap" (with Roman & Danus)
Rolfe, Sam : Writer, "The Vengeance Factor"
Roman, Ron : Writer, "Booby Trap" (story with Piller & Danus, teleplay with
  Wagner)
Sackett, Susan (Production Associate) : Writer, "Menage a Troi" (with Bronson)
Shearer, Hannah Louise : Writer, "The Price"
Snodgrass, Melinda M. (Executive Script Consultant) : Writer, "The Ensigns of
  Command," "The High Ground"
Stillwell, Eric A : Story, "Yesterday's Enterprise" (with Ganino)
Wagner, Michael : Story, "Evolution" (with Piller), "Booby Trap" (with Roman);
  writer, "The Survivors"
Zuckerman, Ed : Writer, "A Matter of Perspective"

==== DIRECTOR'S GUIDE =========================================================
Beaumont, Gabrielle : "Booby Trap," "The High Ground"
Benko, Tom : "Transfigurations"
Bole, Cliff : "The Ensigns of Command," "The Hunted," "A Matter of Perspec-
  tive," "Hollow Pursuits," "The Best of Both Worlds"
Bond, Timothy : "The Vengeance Factor," "The Most Toys"
Carson, David : "The Enemy," "Yesterday's Enterprise"
Chalmers, Chip : "Captain's Holiday"
Frakes, Jonathan : "The Offspring"
Kolbe, Winrich : "Evolution," "The Bonding," "Allegiance"
Landau, Les : "The Survivors," "Deja Q," "Sins of the Father," "Sarek"
Legato, Robert : "Menage a Troi"
Scheerer, Robert : "The Price," "The Defector," "Tin Man"
Wiemer, Robert : "Who Watches the Watchers"

==== MUSIC INDEX ==============================================================
Chattaway, Jay : "Tin Man"
Jones, Ron : "Evolution," "Who Watches the Watchers," "Booby Trap," "The 
  Price," "The Defector," "The High Ground," "A Matter of Perspective," "The
  Offspring," "Allegiance," "Menage a Troi," "The Best of Both Worlds"
McCarthy, Dennis : "The Ensigns of Command," "The Survivors," "The Bonding,"
  "The Enemy," "The Hunted," "Deja Q," "Yesterday's Enterprise," "Sins of the
  Father," "Captain's Holiday," "Hollow Pursuits," "The Most Toys," "Sarek,"
  "Transfigurations"

==== PRODUCTION STAFF INDEX ===================================================
(No episode credit means for the entire season.  When episodes appear in the
 title, not after a name, it means that the type of credit has changed from
 episode to episode [i.e. Asst. to Producers to Post-Production Associate])

--Opening Credits--
Created by Gene Roddenberry
Line Producer: David Livingston
Co-Producers: Hans Beimler & Richard Manning
Producer (VFA-BBW) : Ira Stephen Behr
Co-Executive Producer (BON-BBW): Michael Piller
Executive Producer: Rick Berman

--Closing Credits--
Executive Producer: Gene Roddenberry
Co-Producer : Peter Lauritson
Executive Script Consultant (EVO-MEN): Melinda M. Snodgrass
Executive Story Editor (BTR-DEQ) : Richard Danus
Story Editor (SIN-BBW) : Ronald D. Moore
Casting : Junie Lowry
Incidental Music : Jay Chattaway (TIN), Ron Jones (EVO,WHO,BTR,PRI,DEF,HGR,
  MPR,OFF,ALL,MEN,BBW), Dennis McCarthy (ENS,SUR,BON,ENE,VFA,HUN,DEQ,YES,SIN,
  CAP,HOL,TOY,SAR,TRA)
Main Theme : Jerry Goldsmith, Alexander Courage
Director of Photography : Marvin Rush
Production Designer : Richard D. James
Editor: Daryl S. Baskin (SAR), Tom Benko (SUR,BTR,VFA,HGR,YES,ALL,HOL), Howard
  S. Deane A.C.E. (MEN), J.P. Farrell (EVO,BON,PRI,HUN,MPR,SIN,TIN,BBW), Bob
  Lederman (ENS,WHO,ENE,DEF,DEQ,OFF,CAP,TOY,TRA)
Unit Production Manager : Merri D. Howard
First Assistant Director : Chip Chalmers (EVO,WHO,BTR,PRI,DEF,HGR,MPR,OFF,
  TOY,MEN,BBW), Adele G. Simmons (MPR), Bruce Alan Solow (ALL,TIN), Brad
  Yacobian (ENS,SUR,BON,ENE,VFA,HUN,DEQ,YES,SIN,CAP,HOL,SAR,TRA)
Second Assistant Director : Adele G. Simmons (EVO-DEQ,YES-BBW), Jeff Cline
  (MPR)
Costume Designer : Robert Blackman
Original Starfleet Uniforms : William Ware Theiss
Visual Effects Supervisor : Dan Curry (ENS,SUR,BON,ENE,VFA,HUN,DEQ,YES,SIN,
  CAP,HOL,SAR,TRA), Rob Legato (EVO,WHO,BTR,PRI,DEF,HGR,MPR,OFF,ALL,TIN,TOY,
  MEN,BBW)
Post Production Supervisor : Wendy Neuss
Original Set Design : Herman Zimmerman
Makeup Designer : Michael Westmore
Set Decorator : Tom Pedigo (EVO-ENE), Jim Mees (PRI-BBW)
Senior Illustrator (EVO-ALL) : Rick Sternbach
Senior Illustrator / Technical Consultant (CAP-BBW) : Rick Sternbach
Scenic Art Supervisor (EVO-ALL) : Michael Okuda
Scenic Art Supervisor / Technical Consultant (CAP-BBW) : Michael Okuda
Set Designer : Gary Speckman
Script Supervisor : Cosmo Genovese
Special Optical Effects : Dick Brownfield
Property Master : Joe Longo (ENS,SUR,BON,ENE,VFA,HUN,DEQ,YES,SIN,CAP,HOL,SAR,
  TRA), Alan Sims (EVO,WHO,BTR,PRI,DEF,HGR,MPR,OFF,ALL,TIN,TOY,MEN,BBW)
Construction Coordinator : Al Smutko
Hair Designer : Vivian McAteer
Hair Stylist : Barbara Lampson (EVO-DEF,HGR,MPR,OFF-BBW), Tim Jones (HUN,DEQ),
  Rita Bordonaro (YES)
Makeup Artists : Gerald Quist (all but BBW), June Abston Haymore (all eps.),
  Hank Edds (BBW)
Production Associate : Susan Sackett
Visual Effects Coordinator : Gary Hutzel (EVO,WHO,BTR,PRI,DEF,HGR,MPR,OFF,ALL,
  TIN,TOY,MEN,BBW), Ron Moore (ENS,SUR,BON,ENE,VFA,HUN,DEQ,YES,SIN,CAP,HOL,
  SAR,TRA)
Visual Effects Associate (DEQ-BBW) : David Takemura
Production Coordinator : Diane Overdiek
Assistants to the Producers (EVO,ENS) : Terri Martinez, Carol Eisner
Post Production Associate(s) : Terri Martinez (SUR-BBW), Heidi Julian (DEQ-
  BBW), Wendy Rosenfeld (DEQ-BBW)
Pre-Production Associate (DEQ-BBW) : Eric A. Stillwell
Sound Mixer : Alan Bernard, C.A.S.
Chief Lighting Technician : Buddy Bowles
First Company Grip : Bob Sordal
Costumers : Camille Argus (ENS,WHO,BTR,VFA,HGR,YES,ALL,HOL,MEN), Amanda
  Chamberlin (ENS,SUR,BON,ENE,VFA,HUN,DEQ,YES,SIN,CAP,HOL,SAR), Norma Johnson
  (BBW), Kris Jorgensen (SUR,ENE,DEF,DEQ,OFF,CAP,TOY,TRA), David Page (MPR,
  OFF,ALL,TIN,TOY,MEN), Kimberley Thompson (EVO,BON,PRI,HUN,MPR,SIN,TIN,SAR,
  BBW), David Velasquez (EVO,WHO,BTR,PRI,DEF,HGR,TRA)
Music Editor : Gerry Sackman
Supervising Sound Editor : Bill Wistrom
Sound Editors : James Wolvington, Mace Matiosian, Wilson Dyer
Post Production Sound : Modern Sound
Casting Executive : Helen Mossler
Stunt Coordinator (EVO-BON,ENE,VFA,HUN-YES,SIN,CAP,HOL-BBW) : Dennis Madalone
Assistant Scenic Artist : Cari Thomas
Art Studio Paintings (MPR) : Elaine Sokoloff
Research Consultant : Richard Arnold
Computer Monitors (EVO-ENS,BTR,PRI-SIN,TIN,TOY,TRA-BBW) : Sony Corporation of
  America 
Lenses and Panaflex Cameras : Panavision
Special Visual Effects : Industrial Light and Magic
Additional Motion Control Facilities : Image G
Video Optical Effects : The Post Group
Special Video Compositing : Composite Image Systems
Editing Facilities : Unitel Video


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Rat Head                                 Ratsnatcher          510-524-3649
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   415-567-7043
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
       arcane knowledge, political extremism, diversive sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
