

  STAR TREK: THE NEXT GENERATION
  Second Season Encyclopedia
  First Edition

  Edited by Jim S. Lyon with assistance from Lee Whiteside, Joe Siegler,
  Christina Mavroudis, Berkeley Hunt, Alan Hale, David Johnson, David
  Keller, Pola Staples and Carolyn Kinkead.

  Copyright (C) 1989 by Enterprise America: The Int'l ST:TNG Fan Organization
  Post Office Box 774, Claremont, CA  91711-0774

----STARDATE CHRONOLOGY--------------------------------------------------------
(Note: Concerning two numbers in parentheses, first is episode number as AIRED,
    second is episode number as FILMED.)

42073.1 :   The Child                       (27,27)
42193.6 :   Where Silence Has Lease         (28,28)
42286.3 :   Elementary, Dear Data           (29,29)
42402.7 :   The Outrageous Okona            (30,30)
42437.5 :   The Schizoid Man                (32,31)
42477.2 :   Loud as a Whisper               (31,32)
42498.8 :   Unnatural Selection             (33,33)
42506.5 :   A Matter of Honor               (34,34)
42523.7 :   The Measure of a Man            (35,35)
42568.8 :   The Dauphin                     (36,36)
42609.1 :   Contagion                       (37,37)
42625.4 :   The Royale                      (38,38)
42679.2 :   Time Squared                    (39,39)
42686.4 :   The Icarus Factor               (40,40)
42695.3 :   Pen Pals                        (41,41)
42761.3 :   Q Who?                          (42,42)
42779.1 :   Samaritan Snare                 (43,43)
42823.2 :   Up the Long Ladder              (44,44)
42859.2 :   Manhunt                         (45,45)
42923.4 :   Peak Performance                (47,47)
42976.1 :   Shades of Grey                  (48,48)
None    :   The Emissary                    (46,46)


----LOCATION GUIDE-------------------------------------------------------------
Actos Four : An oligarchy, where the young engaged in a ritual similar to the
  Betazoid grace ritual. (Manhunt)
Alpha Centauri : Geordi boasts that Dr. Pulaski will spread the news that she
  has faked her own disappearance from the Enterprise to here.  (Elementary)
Antede Three : Home of the Antedians, a race of fish-people; few humans have
  ever seen them in the flesh.  The Antedians' preferred way of space travel
  is a self-induced catatonia; they are fearful of spaceflight.  Enterprise
  picks up two Antedians (who are in actuality assassins) for transport to Pa-
  cifica to decide whether Antede will join the Federation.  (Manhunt)
Arneb : Star that can be seen from 'aucdet Nine.  (The Child)
Atlek : -see- Coalition of Madina.
'aucdet Nine: Federation Medical Collection Station, under the supervision of
  medical trustee Lt. Cmdr. Hester Dealt.  Various strains of plasma plague
  are stored here and used in the Rachelis affair.  (The Child)
Benzar : A Federation member planet; home of the Benzites, a race of beings
  whose single most important drive is to impress everyone.  (Matter of Honor)
Beta Kupsik : Enterprise's next destination after its stop at Starbase Montgo-
  mery.  (The Icarus Factor)
Bonestell Recreation Facility : Located at Starbase Earhart, it attracted ga-
  lactic riffraff in its early days, including Norsicans.  (Samaritan Snare)
Boratis System : Located near 423x112x57, here the Enterprise picks up Special
  Emissary K'Ehleyr.  There are 13 colonies in the area, four in the system and
  nine in the surrounding sector; all are new, the first established on Boratis
  III thirty four years ago.  (The Emissary)
Braslota System : Location of the Starfleet Battle Simulation between the En-
  terprise and the USS Hathaway.  In the Oneamisu sector.  (Peak Performance)
Bringloid : Colony in the Ficus Sector inhabited by Irish people, who were 
  anachronistic in 2123 and even moreso now.  There are 223 colonists taken off
  Bringloid when solar flares nearly destroy it.  They are put in Cargo Hold
  Seven.  Bringloid is the Gallic word for 'dream'.  (Up the Long Ladder)
Coalition of Madina : The twin planets of Atlek and Streleb in the Omega Sa- 
  gitta Twelve system, settled several centuries ago by pioneers and who have
  enjoyed a largely peaceful relationship.  Their stability is threatened by
  what they perceive as philandering by Okona, who is actually the mediant
  between Yanar and Benzan, children from each planet.  (The Outrageous Okona)
Cornelian System : Picard orders the ship be set for here when it is trapped
  in the void.  (Where Silence Has Lease)
Crab Nebula : -see- Anecdotes, Data's (in Subject Guide)
Daled Four : Planet of shapeshifting allasomorphs to be united by their queen,
  Salia.  Its revolutionary and rotational periods are the same, so civil war
  has erupted between the sides of night and day.  Salia, the future leader,
  and her guardian Anya have been on Klavdia III for 16 years.  (The Dauphin)
Darwin Genetic Research Station : Located on Gagarin Four, it is headed by
  Dr. Sara Kingsley.  An outbreak of Thelusian Flu mixed with antibodies from
  genetically enhanced children creates an aging virus.  (Unnatural Selection)
Deneus Three : Location of an archaeological dig wherein are discovered relics
  belonging to the Iconians.  The local language is presumabling Denasian, 
  which is from the family of languages rooted in Iconian.  (Contagion)
Drema Four : In the Selcundi Drema system, possessing the largest deposit of
  dilithium ore ever discovered.  The crystals have formed lattices that have
  caused geological instabilities such as focusing heat into mechanical energy.
  Sarjenka is from here; she contacted Data via low level RF waves.  (Pen Pals)
Endicor System : The Enterprise's destination when it is picked up by the time
  vortex and nearly destroyed.  It is three days away when the vortex locates
  the ship.  (Time Squared)
Ennan Six : Pulaski brings a container of ale from here to Riker's dinner par-
  ty.  (Time Squared)
Epsilon Indi : The home location of the planet Andor.  It can be seen from 
  'aucdet Nine.  (The Child)
Epsilon Nine Sector : Enterprise is en route here for an astronomical survey of
  a new pulsar cluster by science officers.  (Samaritan Snare)
Farspace Starbase Earhart : Only frontier outpost in the days before the Klin-
  gons joined the Federation.  Bonestell Rec Facility is located here; Picard
  was wounded here.  (Samaritan Snare)
Ficus Sector : A location where there is no record of an Earth colony ever 
  existing.  Actually, there are two.  System suffers from severe flares; pla-
  net five is class M, with no artificial power or modern technology.  (Up the
  Long Ladder)
Gagarin Four : Home of the Darwin Genetic Research Station.  (Selection)
Gamma Seven Sector: USS Lantree was patrolling here.  (Unnatural Selection)
Graves' World : Home of Dr. Ira Graves and his assistant, Kareen Brianon.  The
  Enterprise is summoned here to help the dying Graves.  (The Schizoid Man)
Iconia : Homeworld of the Iconians, a lost civilization.  Its coordinates are
  227 mark 359, in the Neutral Zone.  (Contagion)
Klavdia Three : Planet similar in atmospheric conditions to Daled Four; it is
  here that Anya and Salia have stayed for the past 16 years, brought here by
  a Federation ship.  (The Dauphin)
Lima Sierra System : Picard notes the irregularities in the third planet's
  orbit when he is interrupted by arrival at Ramatis.  (Loud as a Whisper)
Lorenze Cluster : Location of Minos, the Arsenal of Freedom.  It can be seen
  from 'aucdet Nine.  (The Child)
Malkis Nine : The Lairons inhabiting this world developed the written word be-
  fore sign language or spoken word, an irregular development. (Loud..Whisper)
Marajeritus Six : -see- Ulans (in Subject Guide)
Mariposa : Class M planet located half a light year from the Bringloidi sys-
  tem in the Ficus Sector.  The Mariposans are descended from the same group of
  people that settled Bringloid, but instead are a race of clones who are dying
  out slowly.  Mariposa is Spanish for 'butterfly'.  The Mariposans eventually
  realize that they need the Bringloidi to survive.  (Up the Long Ladder)
Morgana Quadrant : The Enterprise heads for here after leaving Tango Sierra,
  and is enroute to here when it is swallowed.  (The Child, Where Silence...)
Nazreldine : Enterprise's last stop before Starbase Montgomery; a crewman 
  picked up a flu virus there.  (The Icarus Factor)
Neutral Zone : The damage to outposts along the Neutral Zone (mentioned last
  season) is identical to the situation observed in System J25.  (Q Who)
Novachron : Wesley tells Guinan that everyone thinks she's from here.  (Child)
Obie System : The plasma plague strain in Module L-73 was developed here 70
  years previous by Dr. Susan Noress. (The Child)
Omega Sagitta 12 System : Location of the Coalition of Madina.  (Okona)
Omicron System : -see- Anecdotes, Data's (in Subject Guide)
Oneamisu Sector : Location of the Braslota system.  (Peak Performance)
Pacifica : Conference planet; Enterprise is assigned to transport two Antedians
  there for possible treaty with Federation.  Lwaxana says that she and Will
  Riker are to be married on the shores of its Western Sea.  (Manhunt)
Pheban System : Where the Pagh undergoes undesignated maneuvers.  (Honor)
Rachelis System : A system under the siege of a deadly plague.  The Enterprise
  transfers plague samples to station Tango Sierra where an antidote can be
  found.  (The Child)
Ramatis Three : Planet in the system of the same name that is the home of the
  famed mediator, Riva.  (Loud as a Whisper)
Rayna VI : Sonya is from here; she did phase work with antimatter. (Q Who)
Romboi Dronegar Sector 006 : The Enterprise receives a distress signal from a 
  Pakled vessel from here.  (Samaritan Snare)
Rousseau Five : A shattered planet whose pieces are held together by neutrino
  clouds that seem to sing.  Wesley and Salia visit it via the holodeck.  (The
  Dauphin)
Sector 23 : The region of space closest to the Neutral Zone.  The representa-
  tive for this sector's JAG Office is Philipa Louvois.  (Measure of a Man)
Sector 108 : A place inside the Void, where a Romulan ship appears. (Silence)
Selcundi Drema Sector : Five star systems experiencing severe geological dis-
  turbances.  In the past 150 years, the fifth planet of one system has been  
  smashed into an asteroid belt.  The reason for the disturbances is the pre-
  sence of an enormous amount of dilithium.  The Enterprise is the first manned
  ship to enter the sector, though unmanned probes visiting before failed to
  find the life forms on the fourth planet of one system, the Dremans.  There
  WAS a thriving ecosystem on the first planet, now destroyed.  (Pen Pals)
Soleis Five : A planet with two warring factions of a race called the Solari,
  who call for Riva, the Great Mediator, to help them.  (Loud as a Whisper)
Starbase 6 : The Enterprise takes Kareen Brianon here.  (The Schizoid Man)
Starbase 73 : Enterprise's last stop before its trip to Endicor and through 
  the time vortex; Riker picked up some Owan eggs from here.  Also, the ship
  departs from here for the Ficus Sector.  (Time Squared, Up the Long Ladder)
Starbase 83 : Picard sets the Enterprise's course to here following the en-
  counter with the Borg.  (Q Who)
Starbase 153 : K'Ehleyr hails from here; she travels on a Class 8 Probe because
  of the lack of ships at 153.  (The Emissary)
Starbase 173 : A new outpost on the Neutral Zone border.  Its Base Commander
  is Admiral Nakamura; the representative of the Judge Advocate General's of-
  fice here for Sector 23 is Captain Philipa Louvois.  The Enterprise is de-
  layed here when Picard vies Bruce Maddox over Data's rights.  Later, Sonya
  Gomez transfers to the Enterprise from here.  (Measure of a Man, Q Who)
Starbase 179 : Where the Enterprise takes aboard Ensign Mendon, part of the
  Officer Exchange Program.  (A Matter of Honor)
Starbase 185 : Two years, seven months, three days and 18 hours away from Sys-
  tem J25, where the Enterprise encounters the Borg, at maximum warp.  (Q Who)
Starbase 336 : Received a SOS from the T'Ong two days previous to K'Ehleyr's
  arrival on the Enterprise.  (The Emissary)
Starbase Scylla 515 : Starbase where a branch of the Academy is located as well
  as advanced medical facilities; Wesley goes here to take more exams while Pi-
  card to have an operation.  (Samaritan Snare)
Starbase Montgomery : The Enterprise docks here for engineering consultations
  prompted by minor malfunctions.  Kyle Riker beams aboard from here. (Icarus)
Star Station India : The Enterprise is en route here when it receives a call
  from USS Lantree.  (Unnatural Selection)
Streleb : -see- Coalition of Madina
Surata Four : Planet where Riker is infected with microbes.  The Enterprise is
  the first ship to have a survey team explore the planet.  (Shades of Gray)
System J25 : Planetary system 7000 light years away from the Enterprise's ori-
  ginal position before being commandeered by Q.  It is two years, 7 months,
  3 days, 18 hours away from Starbase 185 at maximum warp.  The sixth planet
  holds ruins of cities scooped away from the surface identical to what hap-
  pened on the Neutral Zone.  (Q Who)
Tango Sierra : A Federation medical facility in the Rachelis system modeled on
  the Regula-type station.  It is here that the Enterprise travels with the
  plasma plague samples from 'aucdet Nine.  (The Child)
Thalos Seven : Home of Thalian chocolate mousse.  (The Dauphin)
Thandaus Five : The entire population of this planet was born without limbs,
  similar to Riva's lack of hearing.  (Loud as a Whisper)
Theta Eight : Located in the Theta 116 system; it was here that the Earth ves-
  sel Charybdis was taken and the Hotel Royale created.  Its atmosphere is 
  composed of nitrogen, methane, liquid neon, ammonia tornadoes; temperature
  is -291 C, winds up to 312 meters/second.  Never mapped.  (The Royale)
Theta 116 System : Location of Theta Eight.  (The Royale)
Tokyo Base : Location where Kyle Riker worked on Ferengi tactics for Starfleet.
  (The Icarus Factor)
Tra'nusah : Klingon planet where the Pagh's tactics officer's father died in 
  battle.  (A Matter of Honor)
Vega Omicron Sector : Area of space that the Ares is patrolling; intelligent
  life has been indicated there, nothing conclusive.  (The Icarus Factor)


----STARSHIP INDEX-------------------------------------------------------------
Ares, USS : Ship in the Vega Omicron sector where intelligent life forms are 
  indicated.  Its captain is retiring, and Riker is given command.  Its first
  officer is Flaherty.  (The Icarus Factor)
Atlek Ship : A class 7 ship, with a crew of 26, captained by Debin.  (Okona)
Borg Ship : Box-like collection of "spare parts" with no discernable bridge,
  command center, engineering or life support.  Borgs are stored in this ship,
  which is really a single collective mind.  (Q Who)
Charybdis : NASA Exploratory ship, the third attempt to leave the Solar Sys-
  tem; it was launched July 23, 2037 from an America with 52 states (which it
  had between 2033 and 2079).  Its telemetry failed and it was lost and never
  heard from again.  (The Royale)
Constantinople, USS : Starfleet liner, crew of 2012 colonists, disabled.  Its
  crew suffers from severe hypoxia.  It is saved with only 46 injuries by
  the Enterprise.  (The Schizoid Man)
El-Baz : Enterprise shuttlepod #5.  Picard-2 is found unconscious inside it;
  the ship is drained of power and damanged from an antimatter explosion.  The
  power polarity is not compatible with normality.  The stardate on the El-
  Baz when found is 42679.5; normal is 42679.2.  Named for noted NASA geologist
  Farouk El-Baz.  (Time Squared)
Enterprise, USS : NCC-1701-D, the Galaxy Class Starship commanded by Captain
  Jean-Luc Picard.  They're all legends.  Everyone wants a position aboard her.
Erstwhile, SS : The ship of Captain Thaddiun Okona, a class 9 vessel and inter-
  planetary cargo freighter.  It develops problems in space which calls for 
  the Enterprise's attention.  Geordi updates its systems.  (Outrageous Okona)
Harkona : Romulan vessel under orders of Subcommander Taras.  It attacks the
  Enterprise but is suspended by the Iconian computer virus.  (Contagion)
Hathaway, USS : NCC-2593, a Constellation-class starship that for 80 years has
  orbited Braslota Three as a derelict.  Riker is given command of the Hathaway
  with 40 officers - including Worf, Wesley, Geordi and Ensign Nagel - and 48
  hours to ready it for a simulated battle -- but this almost turns deadly when
  a Ferengi vessel, the Krik'ta, attacks.  (Peak Performance)
Klingon Cruiser : Said to have detected debris in the upper atmosphere of The-
  ta Eight; not seen.  (The Royale)
Krik'ta : Ferengi vessel under DaiMon Bractor, it attacks the Enterprise after
  witnessing the latter's wargame simulation with the Hathaway.
Lantree, USS : Class six supply ship, commanded by Captain L. Iso Tolaka.  Its
  first officer is affected by Thelusian Flu and combined with Darwinian anti-
  bodies its crew of 26 grows older and dies.  Its control access code is
  Omicron Omicron Alpha Yellow Day Star 2-7 Enable.  (Unnatural Selection)
Mariposa, SS : Earth ship, DY-500 class, Captain Walter Granger commanding.  It
  was launched 27 Nov. 2183, destined for Ficus sector.  Its Manifest was 225
  Yoshimitsu computers, 5 monitor beacon satellites, 50 spinning wheels, 700
  cellular comlinks, cattle, chickens, pigs.... (Up the Long Ladder)
Mondor : Pakled vessel captained by Grebnedlog, limited armaments.  The Pakleds
  claim that their guidance and main power systems are out.  Their shields are
  actually of Romulan design.  (Samaritan Snare)
Pagh : Imperial Klingon ship, Bird-of-Prey class, commanded by Captain Kargan.
  Riker is transferred here under the Officer Exchange Program and becomes its
  first officer.  (A Matter of Honor)
Potemkin, USS : Riker served on this as a Lieutenant, during which time he once
  hid the ship over a planet's magnetic poles to confuse his opponent's sen-
  sors.  (Peak Performance)
Pr'ang : Klingon vessel tailing the Enterprise by two days on its journey to
  meet the T'Ong.  (The Emissary)
Repulse, USS : Excelsior-class starship, NCC-2524.  It rendezvouses with the
  Enterprise to transfer crew, including Dr. Katherine Pulaski, in Shuttle
  10.  Later, the Enterprise contacts it when searching for Pulaski's trans-
  porter records.  It is commanded by Captain Taggart.  (The Child, Unnatural
  Selection)
Romulan Ship : A facsimile that attacks the Enterprise when it is trapped in
  Nagilum's void.  (Where Silence Has Lease)  Also, a false image created by
  Worf to attack the Enterprise during the war games.  (Peak Performance)
Sakharov : Enterprise shuttle Two; used by Pulaski in her Darwinian research,
  then by Wes and Picard for transport to Starbase 515.  Named for noted scien-
  tist and dissident Andrei Sakharov.  (Unnatural Selection, Samaritan Snare)
Shuttle Six : Shuttle missing from bay two when Q commandeers her, and takes
  Picard aboard.  (Q Who)
Shuttle 10 : Repulse shuttle; transfers Kate Pulaski.  (The Child)
Streleb Ship : A class 7 ship captained by Kushell.  (The Outrageous Okona)
Tholian Vessel : At the Academy, Riker once calculated a blind spot on a Tho-
  lian vessel and hid in it in a battle simulation.  (Peak Performance)
T'Ong : Klingon D-7 class vessel captained by K'Temoc, in cryogenic suspension
  for 75 years.  The T'Ong awakens near the Boratis system and Enterprise is
  assigned to handle its indoctrination to the 24th century.  (The Emissary)
Transport Ship : Transports Lwaxana Troi to the Enterprise; its cockpit resem-
  bles that of a shuttlecraft.  (Manhunt)
Victory, USS : Constellation-class starship, it was to meet with the Enterprise
  at coordinates 3629 x 584.  Enterprise arrived three days early.  Named af-
  ter an Earth sailing ship of which Geordi constructs a model.  (Elementary)
Yamato, USS : Galaxy-class ship, NCC-1305-E, commanded by Captain Donald Var-
  ley; it is the Enterprise's sister ship.  A facsimile appears in the void
  controlled by Nagilum (in sector 091 mark 26).  The ship itself actually 
  discovers the lost world Iconia and is destroyed when an Iconian probe 
  transmits a computer "virus" into the Yamato's software.  An engineering 
  team of 18 previously was killed when the force field in the shuttle bay 
  collapsed.  (Where Silence Has Lease, Contagion)


----CHARACTER GUIDE------------------------------------------------------------
Alans [Whitney Rydbeck] : Member of the Selcundi Drema team under Wesley; mar-
  ried to Hildebrant.  Specialist in vulcanology and geomechanics.  (Pen Pals)
Alva [unseen] : Found face down in river; her boyfriend was indicted for mur-
  der, says Slade Bender.  (Manhunt)
Antedian Delegate [Mick Fleetwood] : Representative of Antede Three, he is ac-
  tually an assassin; his robe is lined with ultretium.  (Manhunt)
Anya [Paddi Edwards] : Guardian of Salia, future leader of Daled Four.  She 
  is from Daled's third moon and returns here after her Enterprise trip.  She
  and Salia are allasomorphs. / Also played as a teenage girl by Madchen Amick
  and in her beast state by Cindy Sorenson.  (The Dauphin)
Aron [Peter Neptune] : Officer on Enterprise.  (The Dauphin)
Assistant Manager, The [Sam Anderson] : Desk clerk at the Hotel Royale, he was
  involved in the Bell Boy - Mickey D storyline.  (The Royale)
Bell Boy, The [Leo Garcia] : Young man working at the Hotel Royale, he loved
  a woman named Rita and died trying to defend her honor.  (The Royale)
Bender, Slade [Robert Costanzo] : A local thug who tries to kill Dixon Hill due
  to a mishap involving a girl named Alva.  (Manhunt)
Benzan [Kieran Mulroney] : Son of Kushell of Streleb.  He is actually in love
  with Yanar, daughter of Debin of Atlek, and had Okona take the Jewel of The-
  sia to give her as a wedding gift.  (The Outrageous Okona)
Biomolecular Specialist [Tzi Ma] : Operates on Picard.  (Samaritan Snare)
Bractor, DaiMon [Armin Shimerman] : The leader of the Ferengi attack vessel
  Krik'ta.  He attacks the Enterprise when he finds it in turn "attacking" the
  Hathaway.  (Peak Performance)
Brianon, Kareen [Barbara Alyn Woods] : The ward of Dr. Ira Graves, her father
  passed away many years ago.  She served Graves in the capacity of his sole
  assistant, while he loved her from afar.  (The Schizoid Man)
Burke, Ensign [Glenn Morshower] : Tactical officer on Enterprise, he replaces
  Worf when the latter is on the Hathaway.  He also supervises Wesley's return
  for his plasma physics project.  (Peak Performance)
Burns & Allen [unseen] : Specifically, George Burns and Gracie Allen, at the  
  Roxie Theatre, 1932, referred to by Data.  (The Outrageous Okona)
Clancy, Ensign [Anne Elizabeth Ramsey] : Originally an assistant engineer on 
  the Enterprise, she later becomes an ops officer.  (Elementary Dear Data, The
  Emissary)
Comic [Joe Piscopo] : A holodeck recreation of a 20th century comic (in file
  RW96321).  He helps Data to understand human humor.  (The Outrageous Okona)
Crewman [Dore Keller] : Assistant to Geordi La Forge.  (The Child)
Crusher, Beverly [Gates McFadden] : Former Chief Medical Officer, USS Enter-
  prise.  Widowed by Jack Crusher; son Wesley serves aboard Enterprise.  Left
  ship to become head of Starfleet Medical (not seen this season).
Crusher, Wesley [Wil Wheaton] : Acting Ensign, USS Enterprise.  His mother is
  Dr. Beverly Crusher, serving at Starfleet Medical; he stays aboard the ship
  with his studies and is looked after by Commander Riker.  He befriends En-
  sign Mendon when the latter is transferred aboard the ship, and falls for
  Salia, the ruler of Daled Four.  He solves Worf's problem when he recreates
  the Age of Ascension ceremonial chamber in the holodeck.  Wesley is given
  command of a geological team on Riker's suggestion to solve the violent tec-
  tonic problem on Drema, and he also solves the problem of the Hathaway's 
  lack of antimatter with his own science project.
Cuzo, Jimmy [unseen] : Involved in Parrot's Claw case.  (Manhunt)
Data, Lieutenant Commander [Brent Spiner] : Second Officer on the Enterprise
  and OPS officer.  He's won the Starfleet Command Declaration for Valor and
  Gallantry, the Medal of Honor with Clusters, the Legion of Honor and the Star
  Cross.  His capacity is 800 quadrillion bits; his speed is 60 trillian ope-
  rations per second.  He has an off switch on his lower back.  Data fancies
  Sherlock Holmes, and engages in an adventure in the holodeck in the guise,
  with Geordi as Dr. Watson.  He uses his self-correcting mechanism to shut
  down to repair himself from the Iconian virus.  When an analytical team from
  Starbase Montgomery comes aboard to investigate malfunctions, Data's prog-
  nosis of a simple reprogramming becomes theirs as well.  Picard calls him
  Carlos from South America in the Dixon Hill holodeck file.  He was created
  by Dr. Noonian Sung but his 'grandfather' is Dr. Ira Graves, who takes his
  android form to live past his death.  Commander Bruce Maddox tries to use
  Data for study until Picard intervenes.  He also creates a link with Sarjen-
  ka of Selcundi Drema and violates the Prime Directive because of it.  When
  he fails to best Sirna Kolrami at Strategema, he considers himself a failure
  but then learns that losing does not necessarily mean failure.
David [George Baxter] : The Darwin child that Pulaski beams aboard the shut-
  tlecraft.  (Unnatural Selection)
Davies, Ensign [Nicholas Cascone] : Specialist in geochemistry, he is Wesley's
  primary assistant in the team discerning the Selcundi Drema situation.  He
  involuntarily teaches Wesley a thing or two in the art of command. (Pen Pals)
Dealt, Hester [Seymour Cassel] : Lieutenant Commander, medical trustee of the
  Federation Medical Collection Station on 'aucdet Nine.  Dealt travels with
  Enterprise to Tango Sierra. (The Child)
Debin [Douglas Rowe] : Wealthy leader on the planet Atlek whose daughter, Ya-
  nar, is supposedly impregnated by Okona.  In actuality, it is Benzan's child
  and Okona is being wrongfully pursued.  (The Outrageous Okona)
de Fermat, Pierre [unseen] : French mathematician, 1601-1665, famous for his
  "Last Theorem".  He stated that x^n + y^n = z^n was impossible to solve 
  where n>2, and wrote in the margin "remarkable proof" before his death.  The
  puzzle was never solved in 800 years.
Dieghan, Liam [unseen] : Philosopher who proscribed 'back to nature' and foun-
  ded the Neotranscendentalists in early 22nd century, while Earth was recove-
  ring from World War III.  (Up the Long Ladder)
Doctor [Folkert Schmidt] : (Contagion)
Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan : Writer of the Sherlock Holmes stories, which were
  fabricated in the holodeck.  (Elementary, Dear Data)
Flaherty, Commander [unseen]: First Officer of the Ares, with an unusual lin-
  guistics skill; he speaks 40 languages as of the last time Picard saw him,
  among the more exotic Romulan, Klingon, Ghiamon and Stroierian.  He can in-
  stantaneously extrapolate verbal communication, a skill very useful in the
  Vega Omicron sector.  (The Icarus Factor)
Gibson, Ensign [Jennifer Barlow] : Ops officer on Enterprise.  (The Dauphin)
Gladstone, Miss [Dawn Armenian] : The Enterprise's nursery attendant.  She as-
  sists in the supervision of Ian.  (The Child)
Gomez, Ensign Sonya [Lycia Naff]: Young motormouth ensign handpicked by Geordi
  for Enterprise duty from Rayna VI where she did phase work with antimatter.
  Sonya is impulsive and driven, and a recent Academy graduate, transfered from
  Starbase 173.  She spills hot chocolate on Picard.  She assists Geordi and
  then takes his place when he is kidnapped.  (Q Who, Samaritan Snare)
Graham [unknown]: An officer whom Kyle Riker knows on Enterprise.  (Icarus)
Granger [Jon de Vries] : The archetype for the Granger clones; he is Wilson
  Granger, Prime Minister of Mariposa, and Victor Granger, Minister of Health.
  (Up the Long Ladder)
Graves, Dr. Ira [W. Morgan Sheppard] : A brilliant cyberneticist living on his
  own planet, Graves' World, he was Dr. Noonian Sung's instructor -- in effect
  he was Data's "grandfather".  (The Schizoid Man)
Grebnedlog [Christopher Collins] : Captain of the Pakled vessel Mondor, it is
  he who orders Geordi taken hostage.  (Samaritan Snare)
Gromek, Admiral [Georgann Johnson] : Starfleet Admiral who orders the Enter-
  prise to divert to Boratis to meet K'Ehleyr.  (The Emissary)
Guinan [Whoopi Goldberg]: A member of an advanced race of humanoids forced to
  flee into the Federation, she has since come to serve on board the Enterprise
  as the hostess of Ten-Forward.  She met Picard before her assignment, but
  denies it.  A Listener, she is trained in human social skills.  Guinan is
  also known to Q; Guinan is not her real name.  Q calls her an imp, saying
  "trouble follows her", and warns Picard to remove her from the ship.  She
  seems to sense danger, especially Q.  Her people encountered the Borg 100
  years previous; the Borg destroyed them.  She seems to understand humor and
  teenage boys very well; she helps Data understand humor and helps Wesley de-
  cide to remain on the ship. (The Child, The Outrageous Okona, The Measure of
  a Man, The Dauphin, Q Who)
Haskell [Charles Douglass] : A bridge Conn crewman who is killed on the whim 
  of Nagilum, who is studying life and death.  (Where Silence Has Lease)
Hennessy [unbilleted] : Patient of Dr. Pulaski's suffering from Andonesian en-
  cephalitis.  (The Dauphin)
Herbert, Ensign [Lance Spellerberg]: Transporter officer.  (Icarus Factor)
Hildebrant [Ann H. Gillespie] : On the Selcundi Drema team under Wesley; mar-
  ried to Alans.  Specialist in vulcanology and geomechanics.  (Pen Pals)
Hill, Dixon [Patrick Stewart] : The 1941 San Francisco private detective cha-
  racter that is Picard's favorite on the holodeck.  The second time he is in
  there, we discover he likes scotch, neat; he also never invited Madeline to
  drink with him.  (Manhunt)
Holmes, Sherlock : Famed detective from Doyle mysteries, his persona was taken
  up by Data in the holodeck.  (Elementary, Dear Data)
Homn, Mr. [Carel Struycken] : Valet to Lwaxana Troi, he carries her luggage,
  drinks alcohol with fervor and accompanies her everywhere.  She almost fired
  him after she detected 'lustful thoughts' from him.  (Manhunt)
Ian [R.J. Williams] : In actuality, an alien life entity that travels as a 
  glowing white pulse of energy; it impregnates itself into Counselor Troi to
  experience human life.  Born within 36 hours, Ian grows to an eight year old
  within hours, where he dies after discovering he is the emitter of Eichner
  radiation. / Played younger by Zachary Benjamin.  (The Child)
James, William : Philosopher who will not be on Wesley's study list.  (Snare)
Karatok : Author of "The Dream of the Fire", given to Data. (Measure of a Man)
Kargan, Captain [Christopher Collins] : Commander of the Klingon vessel Pagh,
  it is he who orders the Enterprise's destruction when he believes it res-
  ponsible for the Pagh's decay.  (A Matter of Honor)
K'Ehleyr [Suzie Plakson] : Special Emissary appointed by the Federation to han-
  dle the T'Ong situation, her mother was human and her father Klingon.  She
  and Worf had a brief romantic fling six years previous before they parted
  due to youth and their careers, their romance "unfinished business".  She 
  almost takes the Oath when she sees Worf again.  She inherited her wicked
  sense of humor from mom, her bad temper from dad.  (The Emissary)
Kingsley, Dr. Sara [Patricia Smith] : Chief Researcher at the Darwin Genetic
  Research Station.  She grows to old age because of the children's faulty
  immunity system.  (Unnatural Selection)
Klag, Lieutenant [Brian Thompson] : Second Officer of the Klingon vessel Pagh,
  he distrusts Riker at first but is eventually won over.  His father was 
  captured by Romulans and now sits on the Klingon home planet, waiting for
  his death. (A Matter of Honor)
Kolrami, Sirna [Roy Brocksmith] : Zakdornian strategist for Starfleet and a
  third level grand master of Strategema.  He boards the Enterprise to super-
  vise the battle simulation, thinking Riker to be "wanting".  Riker proves
  him very wrong.  (Peak Performance)
K'Temoc [Lance Le Gault] : Captain of the T'Ong, he has been asleep for 75 yrs.
  in cryogenic suspension.  He attacks the Enterprise, but Worf convinces him
  by masquerading as the Captain that the Klingons are allies.  (The Emissary)
Kushell [Albert Stratton] : Leader of the Legation of Unity of the planet 
  Streleb, he is searching for Okona because he believes the rogue stole his
  planet's prized Jewel of Thesia.  (The Outrageous Okona)
La Forge, Lieutenant Geordi [LeVar Burton] : Chief Engineer of the Enterprise,
  he specializes in dilithium regulators and antimatter power.  He fancies the
  Sherlock Holmes mythos like Data and creates Victorian London to be Watson 
  in.  He works with Hester Dealt to carry plasma plague samples to Tango Sier-
  ra.  One of his assistants is Ensign Sonya Gomez.  Data is his best friend.
  He is nearly killed by the Enterprise itself when it is infected with the
  Iconian program, and is captured by the Pakleds due to his vast engineering
  knowledge.  He is chosen by Riker to head up the team to refit the Hathaway
  for combat, and is with Riker when the latter is infected on Surata.
Lestrade, Inspector [Alan Shearman] : Victorian London's lawman, he knew Sher-
  lock Holmes well.  (Elementary, Dear Data)
Lewis, Jerry [unseen] : 20th Century comedian referred to by Comic.  (Okona)
Lieutenant [John Garrett] : A Solari warrior who disbelieves Riva and kills
  his Chorus.  (Loud as a Whisper)
Lore [unseen] : Data's "twin brother" seen in "Datalore".  (Measure of a Man)
Louvois, Captain Philipa [Amanda McBroom] : Senior officer of the Starbase 173
  Judge Advocate General's office.  She was the prosecutor in the Stargazer
  Courtmartial 10 years ago and now presides in the hearing over Data's sen-
  tience.  She was forced out of Starfleet 10 years ago. (The Measure of a Man)
Maddox, Commander Bruce [Brian Brophy] : Assistant Chair of Robotics, Daystrom
  Technical Institute.  He intends on disassembling Data and reconstructing
  thousands of them for Starfleet use, but eventually has to battle Data and
  Picard to do so.  Maddox was the only person on Data's original review board
  that opposed his entry to Starfleet.  (The Measure of a Man)
Madeline [Rhonda Aldrich] : Dixon Hill's secretary in the 1941 San Francisco
  holodeck representation (she appeared last season without a name).  Madeline
  accompanies Dixon (Picard) to Rex's Bar, 'the first time he's ever asked her
  to join him.'  Her mother's cousin is from San Antonio.  (Manhunt; also seen
  last season in The Big Goodbye)
Manheim, Dr. Paul [unseen] : Described by Picard as a man who created an expe-
  riment with time and couldn't control it.  Played by Rod Loomis last season
  in "We'll Always Have Paris."  (Time Squared)
Matthews, Todd [unseen] : Author of "The Hotel Royale".  (The Royale)
Mendon, Ensign [John Putch]: A Benzite assigned to the Enteprise through Star-
  fleet's Officer Exchange Program.  He first detects the bacteria destroying
  both Enterprise and the Pagh.  (A Matter of Honor)
Mickey D [Gregory Beecroft] : A gangster whose woman, Rita, is having an af-
  fair with the Bell Boy at the Royale.  He kills the Bell Boy.  (The Royale)
Moore, Admiral James [unseen] : Informed Picard of the distress call from the
  Ficus Sector.  (Up the Long Ladder)
Mordock : First Benzite in Starfleet Academy; played last season by John 
  Putch.  Wesley mistakes Mendon for him.  (A Matter of Honor)
Moriarty, Professor James [Daniel Davis] : Originally the adversary of Sher-
  lock Holmes in Arthur Conan Doyle's novels, this holodeck representation 
  achieved simulated consciousness when dared to match Data's intelligence.  
  Moriarty almost took the Enterprise but when he gained knowledge of the ship
  the evil forces that drove Moriarty vanished and Picard promised that once
  a way were found he'd come back and release him.  (Elementary, Dear Data)
Nagel, Ensign [Leslie Neale] : Female tactical officer that accompanies Riker
  to the Hathaway.  She, Riker and Worf create the "false image" defensive ma-
  neuver that allows them the first strike.  (Peak Performance)
Nagilum [Earl Boen] : An advanced alien lifeform who uses a mysterious void as
  a laboratory to study the crew of the Enterprise and their reactions.  His
  ultimate purpose is to understand life and death.  He eventually lets the
  Enterprise go.  (Where Silence Has Lease)
Nakamura, Admiral [Clyde Kusatsu] : Base Commander of Starbase 173, he autho-
  rizes Bruce Maddox' intended experimentation on Data.  (Measure of a Man)
Noress, Dr. Susan [unseen] : Developer of the plasma plague 70 years ago in
  Module L-73.  (The Child)
Okona, Captain Thaddiun [William O. Campbell] : Roguish captain of the freigh-
  ter SS Erstwhile, which operates in the Coalition of Madina.  Okona has ac-
  ted for several months as a go-between for Yanar and Benzan, children of the
  two planets of Madina's system, who are in love.  (The Outrageous Okona)
O'Brien, Chief [Colm Meaney] : Irish transporter chief of the Enterprise, he
  is always on alert.  Originally listed as a conn officer, he was evidentally
  transferred to Transporter.  O'Brien was witness to Worf's Ascension ritual
  in the holodeck and played poker with Data before he was sentenced to Maddox.
  O'Brien also assisted in tricky transport situations such as the encounter
  with the Borg.  The name O'Brien was first given in "Unnatural Selection".
  He comforts Will Riker when his father Kyle comes aboard.  He once saw a 
  Klingon pain stick used against a two-tongued Repteen Malopod.  (All episodes
  this season save "Elementary Dear Data," "Outrageous Okona," "The Schizoid
  Man," "Samaritan Snare" and "Peak Performance")
O'Dell, Brenna [Rosalyn Landor] : Daughter of Danilo O'Dell, and an Irish girl,
  it is she who wields the real power of the Bringloidi colony.  She takes an
  interest in Riker.  Worf notes that she is like a Klingon woman.  (Ladder)
O'Dell, Danilo [Barrie Ingham] : The representative leader of the Bringloidi
  colony in the Ficus Sector.  Has a daughter, Brenna, who really runs every-
  thing.  An Irishman by nature, he is Shan'a'kee of the colony.  (Long Ladder)
O'Ferren, Marty [unseen] : Dixon Hill 'greased' him with his own testimony and
  Rex's.  (Manhunt)
O'Neill, Tip [unseen] : 20th Century politician, overweight, which the Comic
  jokes about.  (The Outrageous Okona)
Oriega, Stan [unseen] : 23rd century comedian who specializes in jokes about
  quantum mathematics.  (The Outrageous Okona)
Picard, Captain Jean-Luc [Patrick Stewart] : Captain of the starship USS Enter-
  prise, he is the foremost pioneer of his era.  Picard is responsible for such
  notability as defending android rights in court, discovering lost civiliza-
  tions such as the Iconians, the Bringloidi and the Mariposans, as well as
  the first real contact with the Borg.  Archaeology was his hobby since his
  Academy days.  Picard has an artificial heart, a 'parthogenetic implant', 
  due to a conflict in which he was wounded by Norsicans when he was young. He
  doesn't like kids, though in Wesley's opinion he would make a good father.
  Picard never had time for marriage.  He was top of his Academy class.  His
  ultimate goal is to take his ship to the farthest reaches of space.  When he
  is off duty, he spends his time as his favorite character, Dixon Hill, in the
  ship's holodeck.  A double of his from six hours in the future was once cre-
  ated by a time vortex.  Chose to defend Data's rights in Starfleet court to
  save the android's "life".  When Riker refers to himself as Captain following
  his fight for life against the Surata microbes, Picard calls Data the "ad-
  miral".  Picard is an animal person, though not with small ones; he is really
  a horse lover and a skilled equestrian.
Picard-2 [Patrick Stewart] : Double of Captain Picard from six hours in the
  future.  He was the only survivor of the future Enterprise's destruction, 
  forced into a catatonic state.  He comes out of it closer to the actual time
  of contact with the time vortex.  (Time Squared)
Pie Man [Richard Merson] : Complained that a young waif stole his goods; actu-
  ally it was a setup for a murder.  (Elementary, Dear Data)
Prixis [unknown] : On Wesley's Selcundi Drema team, he is black and speciali-
  zes in mineralogy and metallurgy.  (Pen Pals)
Prostitute [Diz White] : Saw Moriarty call the arch.  (Elementary, Dear Data)
Pulaski, Dr. Katherine [Diana Muldaur] : Acting Chief Medical Officer, USS En-
  terprise.  Transferred to the ship from her last assignment, USS Repulse,
  because of her fondness for exploration and service under Picard.  She is the
  author of "Linear Models of Viral Propatation" and is an expert in her field.
  She has been married three times, and still retains good friendship with all
  three men.  She is also a former lover of Kyle Riker and nearly married him.
  Her greatest medical skill, says Troi, is her empathy; she suffers when 
  others suffer, as seen when Riker is infected on Surata Four.  She believes
  that "death is an experience best shared" when Worf demonstrates the Klingon
  Tea Ceremony for her; she uses an antidote to avoid being killed.  She is
  affected by the Darwinian disease and grows old, but her life was saved by
  Chief O'Brien in the transporter.
"Q" [John deLancie]: Arrogant member of the Q continuum, and Picard's foremost
  adversary.  His third visit to the Enterprise was on a quest to join them,
  and to show them of what lay ahead -- the Borg, for starters.  Q also recog-
  nized Guinan.  He was asked to leave the Continuum following his last visit.
  His reasons were wrong but his actions Picard deems correct.  (Q Who)
Ramsey, Dr. [unseen] : Presumably chief archaologist of the Deneus Three expe-
  dition, he gave Donald Varley an Iconian relic.  (Contagion)
Reginod [Leslie Morris] : 'Engineer' on the Pakled vessel Mondor.  (Sam. Snare)
Rex [Rod Arrants] : Proprietor of Rex's Bar in the 1941 San Francisco holodeck
  set.  He and Dixon Hill were responsible for putting Marty O'Ferren behind
  bars.  (Manhunt)
Richey, Colonel Stephen [unseen] : Commander of the NASA exploratory ship Cha-
  rybdis, he died 283 years previously after being trapped in the Hotel Royale
  for 38 years by aliens who created it out of guilt.  (The Royale)
Riker, Kyle [Mitchell Ryan]: Father of Will Riker, a civilian adviser to Star-
  fleet and strategic attache.  He and Pulaski are former lovers; she calls
  him "crusty, hard as nails" but underneath is still a good man.  He worked
  at the Tokyo base and also at another starbase advising about Starfleet's
  conflict with the Tholians which was attacked; he was the only survivor.  He
  taught Will all he knows about Anbo-jyutsu.  It has been 15 years since he
  last saw his son.  He hates to cook.  (The Icarus Factor)
Riker, Commander William T. [Jonathan Frakes] : First Officer of the USS En-
  terprise.  Born in Valdez, Alaska; his father is Kyle Riker, his mother died
  when he was young and he never knew her.  Riker blames her death on Kyle.
  At eight he learned the art of anbo-jyutsu; at nine, he caught a fish but
  his father took the rod away so he wouldn't lose it.  He cooks because his
  father hated to.  He was on his own since age 15, and did not speak to his
  father for 15 years.  His access code is "Theta Alpha 2737 Blue, Enable".
  Once shared a relationship with Troi.  Picard sometimes thinks he acts like
  a mother hen.  He requested his post on the Klingon ship Pagh in Starfleet's
  Exchange program, and turns down a promotion to Captain of the Ares due to
  "motivated self-interest".  He can speak a little Klingonese.  On the holo-
  deck-created San Francisco program, Riker calls him "Nails from Chicago."
  Nearly died from a parasitic infection until his own emotions destroyed it.
  He believes the Rikers to be "ornery"; his great-grandfather was bitten by a
  rattlesnake and "after 3 days of intense pain, the snake died."  At the Aca-
  demy he calculated a blind spot on a Tholian vessel and hid in it in a battle
  simulation; as a Lieutenant on the Potemkin he shut down the power and hid
  over the magnetic poles to confuse his opponent's sensors.  Data says he only
  relies on traditional tactics 21% of the time.
Rita [unseen] : A woman caught between her two loves -- Mickey D and the Bell
  Boy of the Hotel Royale.  (The Royale)
Riva [Howie Seago] : The "Great Mediator" from Ramatis Three.  The gene for
  hearing is not in his planet's ruling line; hence he is deaf.  His negotia-
  tions successfully created several peace treaties between the Federation and
  Klingon Empire -- before him, there was no word for "peacemaker" in Klingon
  dictionaries.  The Solari request that he and he alone be the mediator be-
  tween the two factions of their race.  (Loud as a Whisper)
Robinson, Lt. JG [unbilleted] : Attractive Transporter officer who receives
  Okona's attention when he first boards Enterprise. (The Outrageous Okona)
Ruffian [Biff Manard] : Tried to kill Picard and Data when stealing their 
  money, because the mortality regulators were overridden.  (Elementary)
Salia [Jamie Hubbard] : Future leader of Daled Four, she has lived on Klavdia 
  Three for her entire 16 year life.  Salia and her guardian Anya are allaso-
  morphs, shapeshifters who exist naturally as pure light.  (The Dauphin)
Sarjenka [Nikki Cox] : A young Dreman that Data contacts via the simple trans-
  mitter her father frowns upon.  Data rescues her from death by bringing her
  aboard the Enterprise and then, when her planet is saved, her memory of him
  is eradicated.  Data leaves an Alaynan Singerstone for her.  Her family in-
  cludes her parents and brothers.  (Pen Pals)
Selar, Lieutenant [Suzie Plakson] : Vulcan medical officer on the Enterprise.
  She beamed down to Graves' World to assist the landing party in ascertaining
  the health of Ira Graves.  (The Schizoid Man)
Scholar [Thomas Oglesby] : A member of Riva's chorus who represents intellect,
  wisdom, philosophy and logic.  He is "also the dreamer, representative of
  beauty beyond truth."  The Scholar is killed by a malcontented member of a
  warring Solari faction.  (Loud as a Whisper)
Sung, Dr. Noonian [unseen] : The leading authority on Cybernetics and the cre-
  ator of Data and Lore.  Long dead, his legacy lives on -- Dr. Ira Graves was
  his teacher, while Commander Bruce Maddox has extensively studied Dr. Sung's
  theories and techniques.  (The Schizoid Man, The Measure of a Man)
Surgeon [Daniel Benzali] : Operates on Picard.  (Samaritan Snare)
Tactical Crewman [Dietrich Bader] : (The Emissary)
Tactician [David L. Lander] : Assistant to Bractor.  (Peak Performance)
Tactics Officer [Peter Parros] : A Klingon assigned to the vessel Pagh.  His
  mother is alive; his father died in battle at Tra'nusah.  (Matter of Honor)
Taggart, Captain [J. Patrick McNamara] : Commander of USS Repulse, Kate Pu-
  laski's former ship.  (Unnatural Selection)
Taras, Subcommander [Carolyn Seymour] : Captain of the Romulan vessel Harkona.
  It is her ship that detains the malfunctioning Enterprise in the Neutral
  Zone.  (Contagion)
Texas [Noble Willingham] : A corny man from Lubbock, Texas, who came to the
  Hotel Royale in a "91 Caddy with only 80,000 miles on it".  He shows Data 
  how to play Blackjack and later bets against him in Craps.  (The Royale)
Thug [Robert O'Reilly] : Tries to threaten Dixon Hill.  (Manhunt)
Tolaka, Captain L. Iso [unseen] : Commander of USS Lantree, he is Riker's age
  but grows to old age in a matter of days and dies.  (Unnatural Selection)
Transporter Officer [Scott Trost] : (Unnatural Selection)
Transport Pilot [Wren T. Brown] : Transports Lwaxana to Enterprise.  (Manhunt)
Traveler, The [unseen] : Described by Picard as a man who traveled through 
  time by mind power.  Played by Eric Menyuk last season in "Where No One Has
  Gone Before".  (Time Squared)
Troi, Counselor Deanna [Marina Sirtis] : Lieutenant Commander and Chief Counse-
  lor, USS Enterprise.  She is the heart of the bridge, Picard's ace in the
  hole.  Her mother is a bit of a bother, but Deanna is a very vibrant woman.
  She shared a past with Riker -- where she warned him about the 'Phase' -- and
  now they are friends.  She has an office somewhere on the ship, seen once.
  Troi is forced to give birth to an alien life form and names it Ian, after
  her father; she is also subject to the advances of the deaf mediator, Riva.
  She aids Pulaski, consoles Wesley and counsels K'Ehleyr, even though the lat-
  ter wants no part of it.  She keeps vigil in Riker's room when he is infec-
  ted on Surata Four.
Troi, Ian Andrew [unseen]: Father of Deanna Troi, once married to Lwaxana Troi.
  Troi names her child, Ian, after her father.  Ian apparently worshipped his
  wife.  (The Child, Manhunt)
Troi, Lwaxana [Majel Barrett] : "Daughter of the Fifth House, Holder of the
  Sacred Chalice of Rixx, Heir to the Holy Rings of Betazed".  Lwaxana's se-
  cond journey aboard the Enterprise is to Pacifica for the Antedian conference
  though she is undergoing 'the Phase'.  The planet Betazed gives her Ambassa-
  dorial status while on this mission.  Deanna's mother.  (Manhunt)  She reac-
  ted badly to the Betazoid kitten Deanna had as a child.  (Pen Pals)
Vallis, Elizabeth [unknown] : Chief of Staff on Mariposa, she is Wilson Gran-
  ger's chief aide.  (Up the Long Ladder)
Varley, Captain Donald [Thalmus Rasulala] : Commanding officer of USS Yamato,
  Galaxy-Class starship.  He is killed when the Yamato self-destructs follow-
  ing a computer glitch introduced by the Iconian probe.  Varley is responsi-
  ble for discovering Iconia following hearing rumors of a couple of archaeo-
  logical digs. (Contagion)
Vanessa [Jill Jacobsen] : A pretty young socialite who loses most of her money
  and is helped out by Texas and, later, Data.  (The Royale)
Vekma [Laura Drake] : Female Klingon officer assigned to the Pagh, she taunts
  Riker and wonders how good he would be sexually.  (A Matter of Honor)
Warrior/Adonis [Leo Damian] : Part of Riva's chorus, he represents passion and
  lust.  He is also the romantic aspect of Riva's nature; it is he who commu-
  nicates personally with Troi.  He is killed by a Solari gunman.  (Whisper)
Warriors [Richard Lavin, Chip Heller] : Solari leaders.  (Loud as a Whisper)
Weapons Officer [Dana Sparks] : (Contagion)
Woman [Marnie Mosiman] : Part of Riva's chorus, she represents harmony, wisdom
  and balance.  It is she that "binds all else together" in Riva's dealings 
  with others.  She is killed by a Solari malcontent.  (Loud as a Whisper)
Worf, Lieutenant J.G. [Michael Dorn] : Security Chief, USS Enterprise.  He is
  "the perfect Klingon, the ultimate minimalist."  For him, the Oath of mating
  is more than a point of honor.  He is a romantic, says Pulaski; but Q still
  calls him the 'microbrain'.  He battles holodeck creations with Riker and
  K'Ehleyr, whom he is mated with.  He doesn't understand betting in poker, 
  or the concept of gambling all that well.  He DOES understand force, and the
  way Klingons think.  Worf adapts to command well on his first assignment in
  the center seat.  He suffers when the 10th anniversary of his Age of Ascen-
  sion comes along.  Worf never knew his real father.  When Riker is given 
  command of the Ares, he wishes to transfer with him.
Yanar [Rosalind Ingledew] : Pregnant daughter of Debin of Atlek, who believes
  that Okona is the father.  In actuality, she will be wedded to Benzan of
  Streleb.  (The Outrageous Okona)
Yar, Lieutenant Natasha [Denise Crosby] : Though long dead on Vagra Two, her
  memories live on in Data, who keeps a hologram of her as a reminder of their
  "intimacy".  (The Measure of a Man)
Zembata, Captain [unseen]: Captain of USS Victory, Geordi served under him as
  an Ensign.  (Elementary, Dear Data)


----SUBJECTS CATALOG-----------------------------------------------------------
221-B Baker Street : The address of Sherlock Holmes.  (Elementary, Dear Data)
Acts of Cumberland : The Starfleet precedent passed in the late 21st century
  that makes Data the property of Starfleet.  (The Measure of a Man)
Alaynan Singerstone : A stone that "sings" a different song for each person,
  though it sings nothing for Data.  Sarjenka finds it in Pulaski's office; 
  Data leaves it with her when her memory is erased.  (Pen Pals)
Anbo-jyutsu : The "ultimate evolution of martial arts", there is an anbo-jyutsu
  ring in the Enterprise's gymnasium on Deck 12.  It is played in a circular 
  ring wearing strange, futuristic armor and long sticks.  Will Riker challen-
  ges Kyle to a match, where the two sort out their problems.  Both have been
  playing for a long time, Will since he was 8.  Kyle cheated his son into be-
  lieving a specific move was illegal because he knew he wouldn't be able to 
  take his son.  (The Icarus Factor)
Andonesian Encephalitis : A disease that Dr. Pulaski says is not contageous,
  but for which Anya assumes her true form and tries to kill the sufferer,
  Hennessy.  (The Dauphin)
Andorians : Federation member race, possessing cobalt blue skin and white hair;
  mentioned several times, not seen.
Andorian Sivalthu : -see- Horses.
Android : According to Webster's 24th Century Dictionary edition, an automaton
  made to resemble a human.  (The Measure of a Man)
Arch : The computer-interface system within the holodeck.  Each "arch", when
  called by name, appears in the room in the holodeck that the person is in
  and allows for direct control of the environment.  Moriarty, a holodeck cre-
  ation, learned how to call for the Arch.  (Elementary, Dear Data)
Aft Station : Bridge location that Riker asks to be transported to on the USS  
  Yamato.  (Where Silence Has Lease)
Allasomorph : According to the Galactic Zoological Catalogue, a shapeshifter.
  The Daledi are allasomorphs.  (The Dauphin)
Anecdotes, Data's : Once he used the square root of pi times nine cubed to
  calculate the distance between the Omicron system and the Crab Nebula.  Also,
  he shared similar stories about brown dwarfs and colliding planets. (Manhunt)
Antimatter : Wesley's project in plasma physics provides Geordi with the neces-
  sary antimatter to make the two-second warp jump that saves the Hathaway
  possible.  (Peak Performance)
Benzites : -see- Benzar (in Location Guide)
Betazoid Kitten : Deanna owned one as a child; her mother and the cat reacted
  badly to one another.  (Pen Pals)
Betazoids : Empathic Federation members of which Troi and her mother Lwaxana
  are members.  Betazoids believe men to be a commodity; women undergo 'the
  Phase'.  Their way of giving thanks for the food they eat is to constantly
  ring a chime during the meal.  (Manhunt)  The gestation rate for a Betazoid
  is ten months.  (The Child)
Blackjack : Also known as 21.  Data plays it at the Hotel Royale with Texas
  and Vanessa.  (The Royale)
Bio-Beds : Medical beds for use in aiding the sick & injured.  (Contagion)
Biofilter : Transporter device that filters out microbes and other infectants
  when it is used.  Pulaski overrides the biofilter when Riker is infected be-
  cause it can't stop the parasites taking his body over.  (Shades of Gray)
Borg, The : A race of cyborgs, originally born as organics but implanted with
  machinery immediately after birth.  They are a collective mind, "the ulti-
  mate user" says Q.  They swarmed through Guinan's system and destroyed her
  planet, forcing them to flee.  Their ships regenerate.  The Borg's first
  real encounter with the Enterprise was due to Q's intervention; however, it
  seems as though a Borg ship managed to penetrate the Federation earlier, and
  destroyed several Neutral Zone outposts.  (Q Who; hinted at in last year's 
  The Neutral Zone)  The Borg threat makes the Starfleet Battle Simulation at
  Braslota necessary in Picard's view.  (Peak Performance)
Chech'tluth : Klingon drink with a 'good bite'.  (Up the Long Ladder)
Chorus : A group of three people -- a woman, a scholar and a warrior -- who
  act as one of the galaxy's most unique forms of communication.  They serve
  as a voice for Riva, who himself is a mediator. The Chorus translates Riva's
  emotion, far better than simple interpretation.  (Loud as a Whisper)
Class 1 Probe : Picard orders this probe sent into the vortex, but it is only
  destroyed. (Time Squared)  One is modified to become a resonator. (Pen Pals)
Class 8 Probe : A coffin-shaped object resembling a photon torpedo casing.  One
  probe had its sensors and transmitters removed and replaced with life support
  for transport of K'Ehleyr to the Enterprise.  A Class 8 Probe is capable of
  travelling at Warp Nine.  (The Emissary)
Cloaking Device : A Romulan invention in use for nearly a century.  Romulan 
  ships cannot fire while cloaked.  (Contagion)
Crimson Force Field : A ruse used by Riker; it is actually the exhaust of the
  hydrogen collectors.  (Samaritan Snare)
Complete Klingon Culture Index : Wesley consults it to learn about the Klingon
  Age of Ascension.  (The Icarus Factor)
Computer, Enterprise : Voice of Majel Barrett.
Computer Virus : A viral program that was transmitted through the log of the
  USS Yamato attacks both the Enterprise's software and that of the Romulan 
  vessel Harkona.  It is destroyed by a full shutdown and erase of affected 
  memory.  The program originated on Iconia, though not necessarily intended
  with malice.  At first, Geordi believes it a design flaw.  (Contagion)
Containment Unit : A device that Geordi LaForge replicates aboard the Enter-
  prise to transport the plasma plague.  (The Child)
Charnock's Comedy Cabaret : The comedy club that Data creates in the holodeck.
  After programming it with an audience that laughs at everything he says, he
  realizes that humor is something he may never comprehend. (Outrageous Okona)
Craps : A game that Data learns at the Hotel Royale.  By discovering that the
  dice are improperly balanced, Data is able to defeat the odds and win enough
  money to buy the hotel and spread around to its patrons.  (The Royale)
Darnay's Disease : A fatal illness that Graves suffers from. (Schizoid Man)
Denasian : Language belonging to the Iconian family.  It comes from the planet
  Deneus Three.  (Contagion)
Dewan : Language belonging to the Iconian family.  (Contagion)
Dilithium : Rare metallic crystal that initiates the warp drive effect.  It is
  dilithium that causes the problem in the Selcundi Drema sector.  It also pro-
  duces the rare isotope Ilium 629.  (Pen Pals)  There are only a few crystals
  of dilithium in the Hathaway's clamps, demanding Geordi's necessity for more
  antimatter.  (Peak Performance)
Distress Beacon : An SOS received from the Ficus Sector; took Starbase research
  hours to determined the source.  Received the previous month.  Used by Euro-
  pean Hegemony from 2123-2190.  (Up the Long Ladder)
"Dream of the Fire, The" : Written by Karatok.  According to Worf, the book 
  did not achieve fame until in the hands of the Klingons.  Worf gave it as a
  going-away gift to Data.  (The Measure of a Man)
Dreams, Riker's : Instigated by Pulaski to cause endorphins to save his life.
  They are restricted to clips from past shows: ones that reminisce on friend-
  ship (Encounter at Farpoint, The Dauphin, The Icarus Factor), to passion 
  (Justice, Angel One, 11001001, Up the Long Ladder), to loss (Skin of Evil,
  The Child), to violence and primal emotions (A Matter of Honor, Conspiracy,
  Symbiosis, The Last Outpost, Heart of Glory, Loud as a Whisper, The Naked
  Now, Unnatural Selection).  The dreams aid in saving his life.  (Clips shown
  in Shades of Gray)
Dreman Home : Resemble homes carved from rock, but the technology is high: the
  doors, for example, dissolve by touch.  (Pen Pals)
Eichner Radiation : A pecular form of radiation emitted by subspace phase in-
  verters or synoacrillates.  The "child" Ian is also a source; the radiation
  causes the strain in Module L-73 to grow.  (The Child)
Elevators : A primitive form of turbolift activated by the touch of a button,
  which Worf doesn't seem to understand.  (The Royale)
Emergency Transponder : A small capsule-shaped device Worf gives to Riker to
  aid him on his Pagh journey.  Riker uses it to lure Kargan to the Enter-
  prise.  (A Matter of Honor)
Endorphins : Medical term for a vital part of the endocrine system of the hu-
  man body; they are affected by emotions and they eventually wipe out the
  microbes infecting Riker.  (Shades of Grey)
Energy Vortex : A powerful vortex with a presence at its center, one acting not
  on consciousness but rather on instinct.  It creates a time loop that the
  Enterprise narrowly escapes, but sends a double of Picard back in time to
  meet the Enterprise six hours before.  (Time Squared)
Enterprise Systems : The Deuterium control conduit and Dilithium crystal cham-
  ber are both parts of the Engineering systems; the transporter uses a matter
  energy conversion control.  Superconducting Magnet (SCM) model three is 
  something for use on the warp engines.  The Enterprise also has magnetic 
  seals on the matter/antimatter bottle; during emergencies the seals drop and
  the m/am purge begins, though it is a malfunction wherein the seals did not
  drop that destroyed USS Yamato.  (The Dauphin, Contagion)  An analytical 
  team from Starbase Montgomery comes aboard to investigate malfunctions, but
  their prognosis is a simple reprogramming, Data's original proposal.  (The
  Icarus Factor)  The automated fire system is a forcefield that contains fire
  until oxygen is used up; computers sense localized increase in heat and com-
  bustion.  (Up the Long Ladder)  Each ship has its own code; Worf taps into
  the Enterprise's to fake the appearance of a Romulan ship.  Data changes the
  code, which is the sign that the Ferengi vessel attacking the Enterprise is
  real.  (Peak Performance)  The transporter mechanism detects microbes and
  infections and prevents anyone beaming up to the ship.  (Shades of Gray)
European Hegemony : A Terran government who used the SOS signal the Enterprise
  received.  One of the first steps in true world government.  (Long Ladder)
Fate : According to Picard, it "rejects fools, children and ships named Enter-
  prise...."  (Contagion)
Ferengi : One of the Federation's chief adversaries.  A Ferengi vessel, the
  Krik'ta, attacks the Enterprise and the Hathaway while both have their wea-
  pons disconnected in the Braslota system.  (Peak Performance)
Five-Card Draw : Data can't understand the purpose of the bluff in this game,
  but against the odds he is beaten with a poker face.  (The Measure of a Man)
Flu Virus : A crewman picked it up at Nazreldine; Pulaski's therapy is tripto-
  phane lycene distillate and a "generous dose of P.C.S.", also known as Pulas-
  ki's Chicken Soup.  (The Icarus Factor)
Gakh : Serpent worms, a Klingon delicacy best when served live. (Honor)	
Galactic Exploration : Wesley comments that only 19% of the galaxy is charted
  as of yet.  (The Dauphin)
Galactic Zoological Catalogue : It categorizes a shapeshifting being as an al-
  lasomorph, of which the Daledi are typical stock.  (The Dauphin)
Gambling : A concept that Data doesn't seem to understand, though he imitates
  it quite well.  He plays poker on the Enterprise and fails to comprehend the
  concept of the "poker face" and plays blackjack and shoots craps at the 
  Hotel Royale and seems to get the hang of it.  (The Royale)
Gateway : An Iconian invention, a method of instantaneous travel that garnered
  them the names "demons of air and darkness."  (Contagion)
Ghiamon : An exotic language spoken by Flaherty.  (The Icarus Factor)
Glob Fly : A Klingon fly, half the size of an Earth mosquito with no sting and
  an apparently unpleasant buzzing.  (The Outrageous Okona)
Grenthamen Water-hopper : Geordi asks if Riker has ever "popped the clutch" of
  this type of vessel.  He compares it to stalling Hathaway. (Peak Performance)
Guile : Worf says that it is all one has when one is outgunned, outmanned and
  outequipped.  It is "good old Klingon guile" in Riker's opinion that saves
  both the Enterprise and the Hathaway from the Ferengi.  (Peak Performance)
Gulliver's Travels : Riker compares the Atlek/Streleb situation to this popu-
  lar fable.  (The Outrageous Okona)
Honor : The Klingon system is shaped around Honor.  Klag's father will die 
  without honor because he was captured, while the Pagh's tactics officer's
  father died with honor because he died in battle.  Riker removes Kargan's
  honor when he is captured during the Pagh's battle.  (Matter of Honor)  The
  Oath of marriage is more than a point of honor for Worf.  (The Emissary)
Horses : In addition to earth horses are Andorian sivalthu and Klingon sarks.
  The Arabs believed Allah gathered the south wind and made the horse, a legend
  that Deanna believes has come true in the holodeck.  Picard likes horses for
  the romance; he notes that fine warhorses would sleep in a Bedouin's tent,
  carry him into battle, feed his children with her milk -- a bond created by
  mutual need for companionship, not a pet.  Picard rides a horse in the holo-
  deck with an English tack.  There is an old horsetrainer's adage: "too much
  weight on a young back will break it under pressure," very much analogous to
  Wesley's first command.  (Pen Pals)
Hot Chocolate : Sonya Gomez spills it on Picard.  (Q Who)
"The Hotel Royale" : A novel written by Todd Matthews in the early 21st centu-
  ry, it was about patrons of a Las Vegas hotel caught in a web of crime and
  intrigue, with a bell boy fighting a gambler for the affection of a woman 
  named Rita and a man helping a woman kill her husband.  It began, "It was a
  dark and stormy night...."  The Hotel Royale was manifested on a methane 
  plain on Theta Eight in an atmosphere bubble and trapped Riker, Worf and
  Data inside.  It was actually created by a group of aliens who wanted to 
  give Col. Stephen Richey something familiar to live his life in.  The "game"
  is solved when Riker discovers the answer: he buys the hotel.  (The Royale)
House of Hanover : An earth royal line, all of whose members had hemophilia.
  Riva's line, who are all deaf-mutes, is similar.  (Loud as a Whisper)
Humor : A human trait that Data cannot understand.  Both the Comic and Guinan
  attempt to help Data comprehend; the Comic tells him that Tip O'Neill in a
  dress, words that end in "k", a briefcase that looks like a fish, etc., are
  funny yet Data does not understand.  Eventually, Data realizes that humor is
  not, as Guinan puts it, the end-all, be-all of human existence.  (Okona)
Humor : Worf says that some use it as a shield; they talk much, but say little.
  (The Emissary)
Hydrogen Collectors : The big red areas on the front of each of the Enterprise
  warp engines, they can also project hydrogen.  Riker uses this to bluff his
  way through the Pakled incident.  (Samaritan Snare)
Icobar : Language belonging to the Iconian family.  (Contagion)
Iconians : The long-dead people of Iconia, now 200,000 years extinct.  The 
  Iconians were known as "demons of air and darkness" and traveled by way of a
  gateway which allowed instantaneous transport.  They left their mark on at
  least three planets and were known as conquerors, though Picard believes the
  assumption to be incorrect.  Captain Varley appropriates an Iconian relic on
  Deneus Three and deduces the location of the planet from it.  (Contagion)
Ilium 629 : Isotope produced from dilithium.  (Pen Pals)
Imzadi : A Betazoid term meaning "my beloved".  (Shades of Gray)
Jarada : Riker comments that the Pakleds are not like them.  (Samaritan Snare)
Jewel of Thesia : Prized jewel of the planet Streleb, in the Coalition of Me-
  dina, it is thought to have been stolen by Captain Okona.  In actuality, it
  was taken by Benzan, son of Streleb leader Kushell, to present to Atlek girl
  Yanar as a wedding gift.  (The Outrageous Okona)
Judge Advocate General's (JAG) Office : The branch of Starfleet responsible 
  for making and enforcing law. The JAG Officers in Sector 23 are Captain Phi-
  lipa Louvois and one terrified ensign.  (The Measure of a Man)
Klingons : Now allies of the Federation.  Q says they are nothing compared to
  other galactic dangers.  They never bluff, says Worf, though this is proved
  wrong when Worf bluffs K'Temoc into believing he is in command.  They also
  never faint.
Klingon Age of Ascension : A ritual of great significance, representing the
  rite of a Klingon's spiritual attainment.  It is a day spent with one's fel-
  low Klingons.  Two rows of Klingons stand and deliver pain sticks to the one
  undergoing the ceremony, while that Klingon utters his most profound feelings
  while under duress; it is a test of courage.  Worf's 10th anniversary is 
  handled in the holodeck by Wesley, Data, Geordi, Pulaski and O'Brien, and he
  succeeds admirably.  (The Icarus Factor)
Klingon Calisthenics Program : A battle simulation in the holodeck; level one
  is enough for K'Ehleyr, but level two is far more dangerous, and Riker and
  Worf tackled a level far above this.  (Where Silence Has Lease, The Emissary)
Klingon Courting Rituals : Women roar at their men and throw things, while men
  read love poetry, according to Worf.  (The Dauphin)
Klingon Delicacies : Such foods as Pippius Claw, Heart of Targ, Breget Lung,
  Rokeg Blood Pie and, of course, Gakh.  (A Matter of Honor)
Klingon Language: Exotic; spoken by Flaherty.  (The Icarus Factor)
Klingon Legend : There is a legend that speaks of a black space creature that
  swallows worlds.  Obviously Worf's belief in this is reinforced by the ap-
  pearance of Nagilum's void.  (Where Silence Has Lease)
Klingon Love Poetry : It 'does not translate well', says Worf.  It is during 
  the tea that it reaches its 'fullest flower'.  (Up the Long Ladder)
Klingon Pain Sticks : Used in the Age of Ascension ceremony, long rods that 
  emit pain.  O'Brien once saw one used against a two-tongued Repteen Malopod,
  which died of excessive cephallic pressures; his head exploded.  (Icarus)
Klingon Sark : -see- Horses.
Klingon Tea Ceremony : The Klingon tea is deadly to humans and not good for the
  Klingons; it is a test of bravery, of looking death in the eye, and Pulaski
  knows all about it.  In the tea, love poetry achieves 'fullest flower', and
  Pulaski shares it with Worf.  (Up the Long Ladder)
Knitter : A medical device aiding bone reconstruction.  (Contagion)
Kuma Maneuver : Used by the Enterprise, a recognizable ploy. (Peak Performance)
Lairons : -see- Malkis Nine (in Location Guide)
"Linear Models of Viral Propagation" : The definitive work on the subject, 
  written by Dr. Katherine Pulaski.  (Unnatural Selection)
Medical Terminology : Enterprise and other medical facilities employ sterile
  fields, neutral calibers, tissue medicators.  Doctors comment on myocardial
  enzyme balance, thoractic polychromatics and metabulation occlusions when 
  operating on Captain Picard at Starbase 515.  (Samaritan Snare)  Tripophane
  lycene distillate is a therapy for Nazreldine flu virus.  (The Icarus Factor)
Memory Erasure : Memory is stored chemically; Pulaski discerns the age of each
  chemical link to selectively erase Sarjenka's memory.  (Pen Pals)
Microbes : Parasitic life forms that attach themselves to Riker's nerves when
  he is infected on Surata Four.  They first affect his great psiatic nerve
  and then move toward the cerebral cortex, weakening his autonomic nerve sys-
  tem.  They thrive on passion, but are slowed by feelings of despair and are
  destroyed by primal emotions.  (Shades of Gray)
Microbiotic Bacteria : A new life form that feeds on the minerals in a ship's
  hull, it nearly destroys the Pagh and the Enterprise.  The bacteria itself
  is destroyed by a tunneling neutrino beam.  (A Matter of Honor)
Module L-73 : The module in the containment unit carrying the plasma plague
  that is affected by Eichner radiation.  It contains a mutated strain deve-
  loped by Dr. Susan Noress during an outbreak of plasma plague 70 years be-
  fore in the Obie System.  It was number nine in a series of 58 tests.  The
  strain begins to grow after the radiation affects it.  (The Child)
Moebius Loop : A time loop that Worf describes, a twist in the fabric of space
  and time.  (Time Squared)
Molecular Cybernetics : A specialty of Dr. Ira Graves and Dr. Noonian Sung, it
  is a new engineering concept.  (The Schizoid Man)
Neutral Zone : The buffer region of space between the Federation and the Romu-
  lan Empire.  The lost planet Iconia lies here.  (Contagion)
Norsicans : A trio of these thugs jumped Picard when he was an Academy cadet,
  and nearly killed him, piercing his heart.  (Samaritan Snare)
Oath, the : The Klingon ritual of mating and marriage; Worf succumbs to it but
  K'Ehleyr refuses it.  (The Emissary)
Officer Exchange Program : A Starfleet program that brings Ensign Mendon to
  the Enterprise and Riker to the Pagh. (A Matter of Honor)
Opti-cable : Fibre-optic cabling; Worf pulls it off the ceiling for Nagel for
  use in the Hathaway's control panels.  (Peak Performance)
Owan Eggs : Pulaski and Geordi don't think they taste very good when Riker 
  cooks them for the two; Worf thinks them delicious.  (Time Squared)
Pakleds : A race of relatively benign humanoids with poor language skills. One
  Pakled captain seizes Geordi LaForge who is assisting them in the repairs of
  their ship.  The Enterprise discovers that the Pakleds are not as docile as
  they have let on.  They have a replicator and want to tap the Enterprise's
  computers.  They steal from the Romulans, Klingons, Jarada. (Samaritan Snare)
Parrot's Claw Case : A case Dixon Hill and Rex were involved in.  (Manhunt)
Parsteel : A rod that Data bends in court is made of this, which has a tensile
  strength of 40 kilobars.  (The Measure of a Man)
'The Phase' : The Betazoid menopause, in which a female's sex drive quadruples.
  While on the Enterprise, Lwaxana is undergoing this.  (Manhunt)
Phaser Range : A holodeck creation where Enterprise officers can go for target
  practice.  Riker and Picard end up there.  (A Matter of Honor)
Pinocchio : The fairy tale that Riker likes to use to refer to Data. (Measure)
Plasma Plague : Various strains developed over the years that are stored at 
  medical facilities on 'aucdet nine to aid in development of antidotes. Such
  a remedy was needed to cure a plague on Rachelis.  (The Child)
Poker : Played twice in a game room on the Enterprise; in both situations Seven
  Card Stud is played.  Data misterns folding as 'bending', while Worf doesn't
  comprehend the system of betting used.  (The Measure of a Man, The Emissary)
Positronic Brain : The Asimovian theory of artificial intelligence.  Data won-
  ders if Maddox has corrected the problem of electron resistance across neu-
  ral filaments, evidentally a problem in recreating this.  (Measure of a Man)
Poteen : Brewed Earth liquor that Bringloidi men like.  (Up the Long Ladder)
Prime Directive : Federation adage put to the test when Data violates the rule
  of non-interference by contacting Sarjenka of Drema Four.  It is ultimately
  negated when Picard discerns that Sarjenka's call is actually a plea for as-
  sistance.  (Pen Pals)
Probe, Enterprise : Two are sent into the Void; none return.  The second was a 
  Class One with full sensor array.  (Where Silence Has Lease)
Probe, Iconian : Blue orb launched from Iconia that unwittingly transmits the
  computer virus.  It is controlled from a computer center on the planet.  The
  code for launch is blue-amber-amber-red; the code for overriding the launch
  bay doors is blue-blue-blue.  (Contagion)
Project, Wesley's : Wesley's grade in plasma physics is dependant on a project
  that he uses the ruse of beaming over to stop to really return it to the Ha-
  thaway.  It gives Geordi the needed amount of antimatter. (Peak Performance)
Psychotronic Stability Examination : A Starfleet test that Troi puts Data 
  through when Picard first suspects that something is wrong following his
  trip to Graves' World.  (The Schizoid Man)
Rapakh Unguhr : Klingon childhood ailment, similar to measles, the solution to
  which is a ritual involving fasting.  (Up the Long Ladder)
Replicative Fading : Symptom of cloning where subtle errors creep into the 
  chromosomes and eventually produce a non-viable clone.  (Up the Long Ladder)
Replicator : A device to create virtually anything via transporters; the Pak-
  leds have one, so Geordi learns.  (Samaritan Snare)
Replicator : Medical instrument; Pulaski tells Geordi she'll be able to use 
  this to reconstruct his optic nerve.  Geordi declines.  (Loud as a Whisper)
Repteen Malopod, Two-Tongued : O'Brien once saw a pain stick used against this;
  its head exploded due to excessive cephallic pressures.  (The Icarus Factor)
Resonator : A device to emit harmonics to shatter the lattices of dilithium 
  under the surface of Drema Four.  It is a modified Class 1 probe put into a
  torpedo casing to burrow into the planet.  (Pen Pals)
Restraints : Electronic beams used to restrain sickbay patients. (Time Squared)
Room Service : Calls Worf on the Hotel Royale telephone.  (The Royale)
Romulan Empire : Sworn enemies of the Federation.  Q says they are nothing 
  compared to other galactic dangers.  Riker comments that Pakleds aren't like
  them as well, though he on other occasions puts them in the same breath as
  the Ferengi and the Jarada.
Romulan Language : Exotic; spoken by Flaherty.  (The Icarus Factor)
Rosetta Stone : A historical earth relic; Varley compared the Iconian relic he
  found on Deneus Three with it due to his successful location of that lost
  planet.  (Contagion)
Secondary Tractor Beam : Smaller version of the ship's main beam, located in-
  side each shuttle bay.  (Time Squared)
Sentience : Maddox argues that there are three guidelines to sentience -- in-
  telligence, self-awareness and consciousness.  Picard manages to prove that
  Data possesses both of the first two.  (The Measure of a Man)
Seven-Card Hi-Lo : Kate Pulaski is obviously good at this.  (Measure of a Man)
Sherlock Holmes Stories : Among the representations in the holodeck were the
  Emerald Tie Pin (presented by Queen Victoria after he solved the theft of 
  the Bruce Pardington plans), Whitaker's Almanac (provided the key to the
  secret code in the Valley of Fear), the snuff box of Wilhelm Gotsliegh Sig-
  ismund von Olmstein, the Holmes Violin (purchased at a pawn shop at Totnam
  Court Road for 55 schillings), Mr. Javez Wilson (an employee of the Red-
  Headed League, duke of a gang of criminals, who was nearly killed by a poi-
  soned snake hanging from a bell) and Reichenbach Falls, where Holmes could
  only defeat Moriarty at the cost of his own life.  (Elementary, Dear Data)
Shuttle Bay Two : One of the ship's primary shuttle staging areas.  It is here
  that the Repulse shuttle leaves Dr. Pulaski; also, the El-Baz ends up here
  when picked up by tractor beams.  (The Child, Time Squared)
Sign Language : Ancient method of communication.  Data learns five forms, one
  being "designation M-9", to deal with Riva.  (Loud as a Whisper)
Slingshot Effect : A method of time travel practiced by former Enterprises, 
  Picard considers this to be the answer to the problem of the El-Baz and the
  double Picard-2.  (Time Squared)
Solari : The inhabitants of Soleis Five, caught up in a war that has lasted 15
  centuries.  Both factions call for Riva, the great mediator, who eventually
  vows to help them when his Chorus is killed by teaching both sign language;
  in learning to talk to him, they'll communicate with each other.  (Whisper)
Spinning Wheels : An earth invention that fascinates Data. (Up the Long Ladder)
Splint : An antiquated earth device that Pulaski recommends when the knitters
  fail in sickbay.  (Contagion)
Starfleet Academy : A branch of the Academy is located on Starbase Scylla 515.
  Is very competitive, trainees need supplemental systems training and situa-
  tional disciplines, among others.  (Samaritan Snare)
Starfleet Medical : Department of medicine in the interstellar armed forces.
  Dr. Beverly Crusher is now head.  (The Child)
Stargazer Courtmartial : The legal hearing following the destruction of the
  USS Stargazer, Picard's former command, presided over by Philipa Louvois.
  It was due to this that she was forced out of Starfleet. (Measure of a Man)
Strategema : A game played on a holographic board in three juxtaposed squares
  and using ten controls per person attached to each fingertip.  Kolrami is a
  third level grand master at this game and Riker challenges him - and loses
  quickly.  To deflate his ego, Pulaski makes Data challenge him but Data loses
  the first game.  Eventually, Data realizes his shortcoming and challenges
  Kolrami to a rematch, learning the point of the entire Battle Simulation in
  the process: he "busts him up" by playing to stay even, not win like Kol-
  rami...arguing for the theory of the "balance of power".  (Peak Performance)
Stroierian : An exotic language spoken by Flaherty.  (The Icarus Factor)
Styrolite : A material made to encase people in suspended animation for fear of
  contamination.  Pulaski transports David to the shuttlecraft in such a ca-
  sing.  (Unnatural Selection)
Synthehol : The Ferengi substitute for alcohol; Danilo O'Dell does not like it
  and prefers real drinks like whiskey.  (Up the Long Ladder)
Targ : A Klingon pet.  (The Schizoid Man)
Tea : Earth drink; it is when a flower is produced instead of tea in the ship
  fabricators that Picard suspects something is amiss.  Picard orders it "tea,
  Earl Grey, hot".  (Contagion, Pen Pals)
Ten-Forward : A new facility on board the Enterprise, located in Forward Sec-
  tion One on Deck 10.  It is a bar / lounge for officers and crew and is
  run by Guinan.  Drinks made of synthenol are served here as well as food;
  such things offered here are Maruvian Tea, Dovlarian Soufle and Promethian
  Nectar, plus Thalian chocolate mousse.  It is low lit and has huge windows
  to space.
Thalian Chocolate Mousse : A product of Thalos Seven, the cacao beans are aged
  for 400 years.  (The Dauphin)
Thelusian Flu : An otherwise mild flu that, when mixed with the antibodies of
  the Darwin children, produces an aging syndrome that attacks the Darwin
  researchers and Dr. Pulaski.  (Unnatural Selection)
Tholians : An elusive race first contacted by the Enterprise under Captain 
  Kirk; Kyle was at a starbase advising Starfleet in their conflict with the
  Tholians when it was attacked and he was the only survivor.  (Icarus Factor)
  Riker once challenged a Tholian vessel by hiding in its blind spot in a bat-
  tle simulation.  (Peak Performance)
Thorn : Like a Janus thorn, a part of a predatory vine that infects Riker on
  Surata Four.  The vine's structure is reminiscent of a biological form called
  risomothis.  (Shades of Gray)
Tin Man : From "The Wizard of Oz"; Graves compares Data to him, in the refe-
  rence of the man who wanted to be human "if he only had a heart". (Schizoid)
Toaster : Philipa Louvois compares this antiquated machine to Data, whom she
  also considers a piece of technology.  (The Measure of a Man)
Tolupian Maneuver : Used by Riker on the Hathaway to counter the Kuma maneu-
  ver.  (Peak Performance)
Touch & Go Downwarping : The process of exiting warpspace momentarily to trans-
  port persons or cargo and then reentering warp seconds later.  (Schizoid Man)
Traecher Deposits : Indicative of dilithium with strong ultraviolet absorp-
  tions.  Wesley orders an icospectrogram for more information.  (Pen Pals)
Tricilite : The points on Okona's drive systems are revamped by Geordi with 
  this material.  (The Outrageous Okona)
Tricordrazine : Drug that is used by Pulaski to slow the progress of the mi-
  crobes that infect Riker.  Her order is for 5 milligrams.  (Shades of Gray)
Tritanium : Material that the USS Enterprise is constructed of.  (Where Si-
  lence Has Lease, A Matter of Honor)
Tunneling Neutrino Beam : Destroys the microbiotic bacteria. (Matter of Honor)
Two Pence : Picard picks them up for luck.  (Elementary, Dear Data)
Ulans : People of Marajeritus Six, they use two large stones struck together
  and guests must continue to eat until the stones break.  (Manhunt)
Ultretium : An explosive that lines the Antedians' robes for the destruction of
  the Pacifica conference.  (Manhunt)
Van Doran's Technique : Cardiac replacement technique, perfected to only a 2.4
  percent mortality rate.  (Samaritan Snare)
Variable Phase Inverter : A device for altering energy polarity, it is used by
  Geordi to activate the El-Baz.  A 2% negative power emanation, the reverse 
  of norm, allows the shuttle to power up.  (Time Squared)
Venturi Chamber : On the Mondor, power needs to be rerouted through it to chan-
  nel it to the main engines.  (Samaritan Snare)
Vermicula : Antedian food, vaguely resembling fish.  (Manhunt)
Victory Model : As mentioned in the USS Victory entry, Geordi created a model
  of the old sailing ship.  Picard commented that it was "Ship Shape and
  Bristol-Fashioned".  (Elementary, Dear Data)
Violence : Troi notes that there are some traits still inherent to gender, such
  as the violence between Will Riker and Kyle.  (The Icarus Factor)
Void : A region of space used by the alien Nagilum as a laboratory to study 
  the crew of the Enterprise.  It is fully enclosed dimensionally; the Enter-
  prise travels through it and always ends up back where it started.  Two
  probes launched into it never returned.  (Where Silence Has Lease)
Wormhole Phenomenon : A strange fact of outer space travel; the Void doesn't
  resemble this.  (Where Silence Has Lease)
Zakdorns : A race that has for nine millenia been regarded as having the grea-
  test strategic minds in the galaxy.  They have good reputations and are self-
  assured; Sirna Kolrami is one.  They need little rest.  (Peak Performance)
Zeledium : Okona's drive is constructed with this metal; Geordi replaces the
  points with tricilite.  (The Outrageous Okona)
24th Level of Awareness : Ruse used by Riker to inform Geordi he had 24 seconds
  before the 'crimson force field' will operate.  (Samaritan Snare)


----WRITERS GUIDE--------------------------------------------------------------
("Story" and "Teleplay" are self-indicative, while "Writer" is descriptive of
  the writer performing both jobs.)

Amos, Gregory : Story, "A Matter of Honor" (with Amos and Armus)
Armus, Burton (Producer) : Writer, "A Matter of Honor" (story with Amos and
  Haight); Teleplay, "The Outrageous Okona"
Assael, David : Writer, "The Icarus Factor" (teleplay with McCullough)
Beimler, Hans (Story Editor) : Story, "The Schizoid Man" (with Manning); Tele-
  vision Story and Teleplay, "The Emissary" (with Manning); Teleplay, "Shades
  of Gray" (with Manning and Hurley)
Bensmiller, Kurt Michael : Story, "Time Squared"
Calder, Thomas H. : Original Unpublished Story, "The Emissary"
Devereaux, Terry : Writer, "Manhunt"
Dickson, Lance : Story, "The Outrageous Okona" (with Landsburg and Menchen)
Gerber, Steve : Writer, "Contagion" (with Woods)
Gray, Mike (Producer) : Writer, "Unnatural Selection" (with Mason)
Haight, Wanda M. : Story, "A Matter of Honor" (with Amos and Armus)
Hurley, Maurice (Co-Executive Producer) : Writer, "The Child" (with Povill and
  Summers), "Q Who," "Shades of Grey" (teleplay with Beimler and Manning); Te-
  leplay, "Time Squared"
Kemper, David : Writer, "Peak Performance"
Landsburg, David : Story, "The Outrageous Okona" (with Dickson and Menchen)
Lane, Brian Alan : Writer, "Elementary, Dear Data"
Manning, Richard (Story Editor) : Story, "The Schizoid Man" (with Beimler); 
  Television Story and Teleplay, "The Emissary" (with Beimler); Teleplay, 
  "Shades of Gray" (with Beimler and Hurley)
Mason, John (Producer) : Writer, "Unnatural Selection" (with Gray)
McCullough, Robert L. (Producer) : Writer, "Samaritan Snare"; Teleplay, "The
  Icarus Factor" (with Assael)
Menchen, Les : Story, "The Outrageous Okona" (with Dickson and Landsburg)
Mills, Keith : Writer, "The Royale"
Mlodinow, Leonard (Story Editor) : Writer, "The Dauphin" (with Rubenstein)
Povill, Jason : Writer, "The Child" (with Hurley and Summers)
Rubenstein, Scott (Story Editor) : Writer, "The Dauphin" (with Mlodinow)
Shearer, Hannah Louise : Story, "Pen Pals"
Snodgrass, Melinda M. (Executive Script Consultant) : Writer, "The Measure of
  a Man," "Up the Long Ladder"; Teleplay, "Pen Pals"
Sowards, Jack B. : Writer, "Where Silence Has Lease"
Summers, Jaron : Writer, "The Child" (with Hurley and Povill)
Torme, Tracy (Creative Consultant) : Teleplay, "The Schizoid Man"
Woods, Beth (Consultant) : Writer, "Contagion" (with Gerber)
Zambrano, Jacqueline : Writer, "Loud as a Whisper"


----DIRECTORS GUIDE------------------------------------------------------------
Becker, Robert : "The Outrageous Okona"
Bole, Cliff : "The Royale," "The Emissary"
Bowman, Rob : "The Child," "Elementary, Dear Data," "A Matter of Honor," "The
  Dauphin," "Q Who," "Manhunt," "Shades of Gray"
Iscove, Robert : "The Icarus Factor"
Kolbe, Winrich : "Where Silence Has Lease," "Pen Pals," "Up the Long Ladder"
Landau, Les : "The Schizoid Man," "Samaritan Snare"
Lynch, Paul : "Unnatural Selection"
Scanlan, Joseph L. : "Contagion," "Time Squared"
Scheerer, Robert : "The Measure of a Man," "Peak Performance"
Shaw, Larry : "Loud as a Whisper"


----MUSIC INDEX----------------------------------------------------------------
Courage, Alexander : Original Theme Music
Goldsmith, Jerry : Original Theme Music
Jones, Ron : Incidental Music, "Where Silence Has Lease," "The Outrageous 
  Okona," "Loud as a Whisper," "A Matter of Honor," "The Dauphin," "The 
  Royale," "The Icarus Factor," "Q Who," "Up the Long Ladder," "The Emissary,"
  "Shades of Gray"
McCarthy, Dennis : Incidental Music, "The Child," "Elementary, Dear Data,"
  "The Schizoid Man," "Unnatural Selection," "The Measure of a Man," "Conta-
  gion," "Time Squared," "Pen Pals," "Samaritan Snare," "Manhunt," "Peak Per-
  formance"


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Rat Head                                 Ratsnatcher          510-524-3649
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   415-567-7043
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
       arcane knowledge, political extremism, diversive sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
