               STAR TREK:  THE NEXT GENERATION

                         DRINKING GAME


                              RULES

          Have one sip of beer per successfully met condition


Anybody:
          
     'Open hailing frequencies'
     'Medical emergency'
     'Belay that order'
     'Energise'
     'Hell','Damn' and other swearing.  See Rikers special swearing
          rules.

Picard:

     'Make it so'
     'Engage'
     'Come' - two if said in personal quarters
     'Captain's log' - two if supplemental
     'Proceed'
     'Number One'

Worf:
     
     'Impressive'
     'Admirable'
     'Grrrrr' ( A simple sneer qualifies)

Data:

     'Fascinating'
     'Accessing'

DRINK WHENEVER:

Riker swears - two drinks; three if it's 'hell'; whole beer if he
               asks 'what the hell is going on'
Riker walks forward as if he's trying to knock an imaginary door
               down with his forehead.
A female character has flawless makeup after she's been through the
               ringer.
Picard straightens his uniform

Data's innards are revealed

Data uses his strength

Data is cut off mid sentence - two drinks if it's a list of
               synonyms.
Geordie's visor is taken or knocked off

Beverly can't figure out  some bizarre medical problem

Deanna senses something really shocking

Deanna gives us Betazoid insight into something really obvious

O'Brien has a line (this gets brutal after the third season - weak
               drinkers may pass)
A crew member drinks -  two if it's Picard; three if it's Picard
               drinking tea; four if the tea is identified as Earl
               Grey.
A bridge officer is shown in casual clothes (one drink per scene,
               per officer) = two drinks if it's Beverly in a
               sweater; two drinks if it's Picard in his chest
               revealing bedwear.
A bridge officer appears in dress uniform (one drink per scene, per
               officer)
Every time somebody is addressed by his or her first name - two if
               there's some kind of sexual tension going on.
Every time they use transporter room three.

A shuttle craft seems like an unsafe place to be.

Somebody reads a book.

Somebody preaches the Prime Directive - two if it's NOT Picard

Somebody preaches about Humanity's Unique Potential

Picard has an accident or is attacked - two drink; three if it
               draws blood
Picard is possessed - four drinks

An 'old earth saying' is brought up - two if Data has to have it
               explained to him.
Patrick Stewart tries to speak French

Wesley talks back to his Mom.

Somebody implies that Ten Forward is a Happening Place

They fade for an advertisement playing the 'ominous horns'

Klingon is spoken - two drinks per scene in which Klingons are
               alone and have no obvious reason to speak English
               but do anyway.
Each scene in which a nifty new Romulan ship is shown

There's a token alien in the background with no lines - two if it's
               a Vulcan.
Yellow Alert - one drink
Red Alert - two drinks
Intruder Alert - three drinks

Another Captain or Star Fleet Command officer is on screen.

There's a countdown

Every time a bridge command is handed over

The Enterprise crew avoids a confrontation instead of blasting
               away.
Each scene in which the Enterprise actually fights (shots must be
               fired) - two drinks.
Whole beer whenever the saucer section separates.

They contact somebody on the communicator/intercom without going to
               a panel or touching anything.
A communicator isn't working or is blocked - two if it's out of
               range.
New Trek contradicts a fact from Old Trek (Unfortunately, players
               may be too drunk to adjudicate this rule)
You're thirsty

     
     -This game was designed and written by no attributable source.


{ed Clearly a drinking game beyond the capacity of most humans.}


ij'
