From: rich.bellacera@amail.amdahl.com
Newsgroups: rec.arts.startrek.misc
Subject: KZINTI (Inclusionary Data for the Star Trek Universe)
Message-ID: <m0n2vjO-0000jUC@juts.ccc.amdahl.com>
Date: 19 Dec 92 07:38:25 GMT
Lines: 210

> Subject: Re: Kzinti (Re: Hypothetical TNG Galactic Map)
> From: dgreen@thor (David Greenebaum)
> Quoth Clay Spinuzzi, quoting Michael Andersson:
> >>Were the Kzinti in a ST:TNG ep?  Which one!  I wanna see it!
> >The TAS episode "The Slaver Weapon," and no, you *don't* want to see it.
> Yes I do--I want to laugh at it.  I hear Spock takes the place of a
> Puppeteer in the story--I doubt he can pull it off.

In fact the Kzinti appear or are mentioned in 3 different episodes of ST:TAS.
They were/are "Slaver Weapon", "Time Trap" and "The Infinite Vulcan."  I'm
not sure who wrote the later two, but the first was written by Larry Niven,
the author of the Ring World Trilogy.  In light of this fact that Larry,
himself, brought his creatures from HIS "known Universe" into the Star Trek
Universe means that he clearly gave Gene, Paramount and others the right to
include them as a normal part of the Star Trek legacy.  Sure, Gene has said
that because of the many inconsistencies between the animated episodes and the
live action episodes he would just as soon ignore them (paraphrased of
course). But how many fans still consider "Yesteryear" (Spock's childhood
story) a legitimate part of Spock history, or many others stories also.
Personally, I think there are many live action episodes that I'd just as soon
ignore ("Spock's Brain" comes to mind).  I think it all boils down to personal
preference.  There are many inconsistancies between episodes of TOS, between
episodes of TNG and even conflicts of info between TOS & TNG (the Horta as a
"non-organic" lifeform vs. the TNG Vallarian micro-beings on the terraforming
early episode, supposedly there were no known inorganics). Inconsistancies are
a part of the ST mythos that we should rather look to explain than to just
write-off.  I like the approach that Marvel Comics take to their stories.
When there are major or minor mess-ups (even wrong colorations, etc.) they
encourage fans to write possible explanations for the mess-ups.  i'm not
talking about miscoloring clothing or whatever, but rather when a character
acts inconsistant with his/her past representations.  Readers love to be
overly critical and complain about these mess-ups so Marvel gives the one with
the best explaination an Official 'No-Prize'.  It's not much. Usually an empty
envelope informing the reader that they are the winner of an official
'No-Prize', but it *is* a satisfactory recognition for a job well done.  The
things fans come up with are often quite ingenious and may be 'launching
points' for future storylines.

With the preceding in mind and some personal research on the Kzin (especially
from the three episodes mentioned and the Larry Niven Trilogy) I was able to
gather enough data to forulate a plausable biography of the Kzin species.  The
following is part of a manuscript I wrote several years ago which includes
every known or alluded species in the Star Trek Universe current as of the
first season of TNG.  My resources included many other publications written
for and about Star Trek including (Bjo Trimble's Concordance, The Star Trek
Maps, The ST Spaceflight Chonology, ST Medical Reference Manual, Technical
manuals too numerous to list, and assorted magazine articles found in Starlog
and other and other major fan publications.  I did not read any of the recent
MAN-KZIN war books that have been published (I think) by another author, so I
am not familiar with the outcome of that new pocketbook series.  One of the
coolest things about ST is the concept that it is a universe of imagination
which seems to be so popular because of it's positive outlook on the future
(hope) and the fact that the shows are serial by nature.  I submit this entry
on the KZINTI species in hopes that some (probably those less critical by
nature) will find it...at least interesting, if not useful.  I originally
spirited into this manuscript project when I was heavily into playing FASA's
Star Trek: The Roleplaying Game.  Unfortunately that game is now defunct, but
I maintain this manuscript (in full) with my copy of the boxed game and it's
various books and champaigns.  Gee, I wish there were other's in my area who
still played it.  If anyone has any details that might be helpful for this
document you can email me direct.  Thank you.  Enjoy.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
KZINTI - ("Slaver Weapon", "Time Trap", "Infinite Vulcan") Also called Kzin.
For nearly a millenia KZIN II, their homeworld, was once the seat of a
widespread empire based on a slave economy and the maintenance of terror (much
like the ancient SLAVER DOMINATION or the more recent KLINGON EMPIRE) until a
series of Man-Kzin wars expelled them.  Kzin society is loosely based on a
hereditary patriarchy whose leader is called "The Highest of the Kzin" in
their native language. Those of patriarchal lineage bear the surname of
"-Rrit" and are the only members of their race allowed to have a first name as
well. All others may only be identified by their profession or a title (e.g.
Chuft Captain, Flyer, Speaker-to-Animals", etc.).

Physically, Kzinti are fat orange catlike bipeds standing approxiametly eight
feet tall in a hunched upright posture.  The so-called fat is actually dense
muscle tissue, smooth and powerful and oddly arranged over their endoskeleton
where their ribs have both verticle and horizontal bracing. This arrangement
naturally provides ample protection, even when two or three ribs are broken,
for their two hearts.  This, along with their sharp, retractable claws
(usually kepts polished and sheathed) enables them to usually have the
advantage in any hand-to-hand combat (ostensibly their favorite pastime).
Nearly any situation is usally guided by the Kzinti "Code of Honor" which is
to seek revenge first before calling for help.  To do otherwise is to bring
disgrace upon the individual and his lineage.  As a feline race it is quite
possible that the Kzin share a common heritage with the Caitians and the
mysterious telepathic Vedala (see "The Jihad", CAITIANS and VEDALA).  Most
Kzin can be distinguished from others by their individual markings such as a
white patch on the nose, a black mask around the eyes, a yellow stripe, a red
spot, etc.  They also have round, rather than eliptical, shaped pupils.  Their
auricles can fold up like an umbrella to protect their inner ear.  Their
rictus, though resembling a smile, is definitely an expression of anger.
Their voice is harsh and loud.  It is said that, "One Kzin alone sounds like a
catfight, but two or more in a heated arguement sounds like a major feline
war" (complete with atonics).  Therefore sonic deadeners are usually installed
in public facilities where Kzinti frequent.

Overpopulation has never been a problem for the Kzin (even before the wars),
since they look at the typical overcrowding which occurs on many human colony
worlds with disgust.  They have found that they have an insticntive means for
population control -- they fight eachother.  The more crowded their community
grows, the more opportunity exists for one Kzin to take offense at another.
Kzinti are carnivores (meat-eaters) and not very particular about what flesh
they eat.  They believe this to be a dominant and heroic trait.  As such, they
naturally abhor herbivores (plant-eaters) like Vulcans, considering them to be
among the lowest forms of life and not worthy of recognition (see VULCANS).
It is considered appropriate to call such by the Kzin derogatory word,"Eaters-
of-Roots and Leaves."  Humans, on the other hand, are an omnivorous race,
consumers of both flesh and vegitables, therefore worthy of notice, though
still contemptable (since the wars).

All Kzinti females are of a smaller stature than the males and considered to
be non-sentient, or dumb animals, by their male counterparts, a trait shared,
to some extent, by the Ferengi and Orions, and in reverse by the Cygnians (see
FERENGI, ORIONS and CYGNIANS).  It is not known whether this is a genetic
trait or a social one.  With Cygnian males it is a hereditary factor that has
determined their lower intelligence paving way for their matriarchal social
system, however, it is an established fact that when green Orion women are
removed from their traditionally male dominated, exploitative, and oppressive
environment that they can develop at least an average I.Q. By extension,
Kzinti males prejudiciously believe all females, of any species, to be "dumb
animals" and therefore also beneath their notice (a little peice of knowledge
that has saved many females of all species, at times).  For a male Kzin to
recognize a female as an intelligent creature would be, to them, a great
insult and shame.

Another Kzinti trait is their aptitude for telepathy, a characteristic they
share with many other galactic species (see humans, DELTANS, LACTRANS,
MALURIANS, MEDUSANS, BETAZEDS, VULCANS and others).  Not all Kzinti may ever
develop this discipline.  Those who do usually develop in old age when their
bodies grow tired and weak, and they are forever unhappy and neurotic.  A Kzin
telepath is called a "Reader-of-Minds."  They do not particularly like to read
the minds of others, but their own power is so great they often find it very
difficult no to do so.  Even an extremely adept telepath may find his mind
intruded upon by another Kzin telepath.  Due to social conditioning they are
particularly nauseated by reading the minds of herbivores and females.  The
Kzinti government quite commonly and callously exploits its known telepaths in
any fashion deemed necessary. Kzinti telepaths are often found as crewmen
aboard police vessels (often supporting pirate raids as well).

By nature Kzinti are fiercely warlike, courageous and stubborn.  Over the past
two and a half centuries there have been at least four major MAN-KZIN wars, as
well as numerous smaller skirmishes.  Had the Kzinti won the first of these,
mankind would now be raised as slaves and herded as livestock fit for the
slaughterhouse. Realising this early-on the humans fought back with such
vigorous tenacity that they took the Kzinti quite by surprise.  Yet,
relentlessly, the Kzin tried over and over to defeat them to no avail.  Even
though Kzinti technology, at that time, was much more advanced than mankind's,
and their ships had superior manuverability --they just had not counted on the
human will to survive and be free. The Sirian Star System (see "Mudd's
Passion", "Arena", and SIRIANS) is the sight of the battle known as the
"Kzinti's Last Stand" which marked the signing of the "Treaty of Sirius", a
Federation writ which confines the Kzin Patriarchy to a spherical volume some
50 lightyears in diameter.  Kzinti maker bouys are located in strategic points
along its perimeter and broadcast a warning message in the "Hero's Tongue"
(Kzinti language).  One such marker is located near the outermost planet of
the Sirian System.  The treaty grants the Kzin only probationary status and
allows for very few police vessels (the equivalent of a Federation courier
transport ship). Sirius has been the sight of frequent police raids by Kzin
who still maintain a misplaced resentment for the system which ever reminds
them of their greatest failure.  Until the Treaty of Sirius, and before they
met mankind, the galaxy was their dinnertable.  The treaty has effectively
stipped them of thier empire and reduced them to only a dozen worlds.  They
are not allowed weapons, and must patrol their territory with crude, but
efficient, peace-keeping ships.  However, they have managed to get around this
by resorting to piracy, with the tacit approval of the Kzinti government.  By
the 23rd century the Kzin population is down to barely one-eighth of what it
was before their first encounter with mankind and determined engagement in
war. Each successive incident cost them more and more of their lives, and the
confiscation of nearly all of their worlds.  Though the Federation still
considers the Kzinti to be quite dangerous to its member races at large, it is
felt that the Man-Kzin wars have put sufficient restriction on Kzinti
expansion and terrorism.  Still, StarFleet is vigilant to keep a tight rein on
their extremely limited privleges, and an eye on their doings.  It was this
savage behavior of the Kzin that first prompted noted scientist Dr. Keniclius
Stavos to plan and prepare the means to conquer, and thereby save the galaxy.
He believed that only by ruling the galaxy with his despotic peace-enforcing
fleet of Phylosians would he be able to restrain such malevolent beings as the
Kzinti (see Keniclius,Stavos, and PHYLOSIANS).

Two unique devices employed by the Kzinti police.  One is the "web", a highly
technical energy net that is laid out on the ground and produces a forcefield
to restrain prisoners.  It is fully equipped with a self-contained life
support system.  The other is a "nullifier", capable of deactivating nearly
any stasis field.

The actual location of Kzin II and the Kzinti worlds is nestled between the
border of Federation space and Gorn territory, within a region known as the
KZINTI PATRIARCHY.  While contact with the Gorn is unknown, it is purported by
StarFleet Intelligence that there has been several secret meetings between
high ranking Kzin and their Skorr counterparts.  The Skorr are an equally
ferocious warrior race of ornithoid bipeds with a common loathing for the
Federation (see "The Jihad", "Arena", "Mudd's Passion", AURELIANS and SKORR).
According to sources there is a possible alliance, but UFP sources officially
deny this rumour, reminding the public of the great delight with which the
Kzin once feasted on Skorr in captivity prior to their release at the hands of
the Federation forces during the Man-Kzin wars.  It is believed, by some, that
such an allaince may eventually lead to another "Jihad" (holy war) after which
the Kzin will regain control of the Galaxy.  However, this fear is balanced
by the assurance that the Kzin would eventually have to contend with every
other Federation enemy (ostensibly the KLINGONS, ROMULANS, CARDASSIANS, GORN,
THOLIANS and others).

Though the wars virtually decimated their male population, Kzinti females went
virtually untouched since they, by tradition, do not engage in combat, and
thrive mainly on the Kzin homeworld.  All male Kzin alive in the 23rd Century
are direct descendants of those who managed to avoid death in the M-K wars.
These survived mainly by deveoping a wit or forebearance to avoid fighting
with humans, and the intellegence or self-restraint necessary to deal with the
Federation.
