MCMLXXXV-10megs-300/1200-612/729-1985
		     ***************************************
		     *					   *
		     *	  The Star Trek episode guide	   *
		     *					   *
		     *		    By: 		   *
		     *					   *
		     *		Apple Avenger		   *
		     *					   *
		     *	 (C)1985 Midwest Pirate's Guild    *
		     *					   *
		     ***************************************

  "Space-the final frontier...These are the voyages of the Starship Enterprise.
Its five-year mission:	to explore strange new worlds, to seek out new life and
new civilizations, to boldly go where no man has gone before."

  Sounds familiar doesn't it?  The preamble above is from histories most famous
and influential television series ever, Star Trek.  Star Trek has evolved into
one of the biggest cults today.  Even after two decades, its syndicated shows
are watch over and over again by many different generations of people.	In this
feature file I will list the shows in order by their season, and also give a
little explanation about what happen in each show.  I will not try to say to
much so that other young trekkie fans who have not seen most of these shows
will not be upset that I disclosed what happen in them.

  Star Trek was first air on September 8th, 1966.  The show lasted a total of
three seasons on NBC before it was canceled 1969.  During those three seasons a
total of 79 episode were filmed.  During the 1973-75 saturday morning cartoon
seasons, Star Trek came back in a cartoon form with the original voices of the
cast doing their own character.  Then in 1980, do to popular demand from the
trekkie groups across the nation, Star Trek:  The motion picture was filmed and
released.  This film was a big success and promoted them to film another film
entitled, Star Trek II:  The Wrath of Khan.  In this film Kirks old enemy from
the episode "Space Seed" Khan (Richardo Montalban) has escaped from the planet
that Kirk imprisoned him on 15 years ago.  In Trek II we find out the Kirk has
a son named David, and Spock gives his life in order to save the Enterprise
from Khan who has triggered the Genesis Device (which is a device that makes
life from lifelessness, created my Dr.	Carol Marcus and he son David).  In
Star Trek III:	The Search for Spock, we find out that Spocks body was still
alive but his soul (brain) is possessed by Dr McCoy and the crew of the
Enterprise must steal their ship back and go and rescue Spock from the Genesis
planet.  In this movie we see the final voyage of the Starship Enterprise and
we see the death of Kirks son David.  Since the last movie, resent rumor has it
that they have started to film a forth Star Trek Movie, and who knows what this
will be (authors note:	The last Star Trek movie was directed by Leonard Nimoy,
Mr.Spock as he is better known to trekkies).

  The creator of Star Trek is Gene Roddenberry.  Mr.  Roddenberry will admit
that he borrowed from many other sci-fi shows from earlm%d dates in order to
get some ideas for Star Trek.  No one really knows why Star Trek was so
popular.  For its time it dealt with many things that people were just
beginning to understand, like space travel, lasers, etc.  Many actors played in
the Star Trek series, the most known are:  William Shatner as Capt.  James T.
Kirk, Leonard Nimoy as Mr.Spock, DeForest Kelly as Dr.Leonard "Bones" McCoy,
James Doohan as Engineer Montgomery "Scotty" Scott, Nichelle Nichola as Uhura,
George Takei as Mr.Sulu, and Walter Koeing as Ensign Pavel Chekov.

  Star Trek was a leader in Science Fiction television shows.  Many have
borrowed and copied from it, but none have gotten the cult following like Star
Trek has.  I hope this list will be helpful in your watching and taping of the
Star Trek episodes (authors note:  Paramount Studios has now released all of
the Star Trek episodes on tape for the budget price of $14.95.	The Movies can
be purchased for $29.95.  Check your local video store for more details).

Star Trek: The 1st Season
-------------------------

01: "The Man Trap" On a desert planet, Kirk and McCoy are involved in a series
    of bizarre killings.

02: "Charlie X" A teenage boy, reared by aliens, is brought aboard the
    Enterprise and soon reveals his true intentions.

03: "Where no man has gone before" Actually the second pilot. Guest Stars Gary
    Lockwood and Sally Kellerman transform into all-powerful beings when the
    Enterprise crosses a cosmic barrier.

04: "The Naked Time" Emotions run high when an alien virus passed by casual
    contact strips the Enterprise crew of all inhibitions.

05: "The Enemy Within" The Kirk id is explored as the Captain is transformed
    into two people; one meek and caring, the other violent and impulsive

06: "Mudd's Women" Roger C. Carmel stars as Harry Mudd, the flim-flam man of
    space whose three beautiful companions have the power to command men.

07: "What are little girls made of?" A mad scientist intends to replace Kirk
    with a android double.

08: "Miri" Kirk must deal with the love of a survivor of a planet-wide
    catastrophe who is 300 years old.

09: "Dagger of the mind" Another renegade scientist is using a mind-altering
    device for nefarious purposes.

10: "The Carbomite Maneuver" A seemingly malevolent alien is intent on
    destroying the Enterprise for violating his race's space.

11-12: "The Menagerie" Two-part episode has Spock abducting former Enterprise
       captain Christopher Pike and hijacking the Starship to a forbidden
       planet.

13: "The conscience of the king" Kirk is told that the star of a troupe of
    actors is actually the escape Earth Criminal, Kodos the Executioner.

14: "Balance of terror" Kirk must fight of wits with the commander of a
    Romulan ship.

15: "Shore Leave" The crew of the Enterprise is given shore leave on a Eden
    like planet where all of their thoughts and dreams become real.

16: "The Galileo Seven" When the Enterprise's shuttle craft crash lands on a
    hostile planet, Spock finds out that logic alone won't solve the
    situation.

17: "The Squire of Gothos" A maniacal alien uses the Enterprise crew as
    playthings.

18: "Arena" Kirk must do battles with a powerful lizard like alien if he is
    save the Enterprise from destruction.

19: "Tomorrow is Yesterday" The Enterprise is sent back to the '60s and must
    erase all evidence of its appearance before it can return to the future.

20: "Court Martial" Kirk goes on trial after a computer accuses him of murder.

21: "Return of the Archons" Kirk again battles a computer that's intent on
    slowly murdering a planet's inhabitants.

22: "Space Seed" The earth superman Khan, from the 1990's is introduced, and
    attempts to conquer again by first taking over the Enterprise.

23: "A taste of Armageddon" Kirk and Spock become involved in a computer war
    on a planet where the inhabitants are forced to comply.

24: "This side of paradise" Spock experiences true love for the first time
    when alien spores make him and an entire planet's population euphoric

25: "The Devil in the dark" Kirk and Spock must track down a rock-like
    monster menacing a mining colony.

26: "Errand of mercy" When Organia is invaded by Klingons, the Enterprise
    comes to the rescue-or does it?

27: "The alternative factor" A mad time-traveler attempts to convince Kirk
    that the end of the universe is near.

28: "The city on the edge of forever" Kirk and Spock must go back in time to
    stop a deranged McCoy before he can change history.

Star Trek: The 2nd Season
-------------------------

29: "Operation Annihilate" Kirk must save the inhabitants of Deneva before
    parasites drive them all mad.

30: "Amok Time" Spock must return to Vulcan to marry before he dies.

31: "Who mourns for Adonais" The Greek god Apollo attempts to capture the
    Enterprise crew.

32: "The changeling nomad" An ancient robot probe intends to reach Earth and
    destroy all inferior species, namely humans.

33: "Mirror, mirror" During a ion storm, Kirk and his landing party exchange
    places with their counterparts in another universe.

34: "The Apple" Kirk and crew must rid a dependent planet of its "God"
    machine.

35: "The Doomsday machine" And all-powerful planet killer will gobble up the
    universe unless the Enterprise destroys it. Introduces the character
    Decker, whose son is featured in Star Trek-the Motion Picture.

36: "Catspaw" Weird creatures capable of assuming different forms capture Kirk
    Spock and McCoy.

37: "I, Mudd" Harry Mudd returns, this time as a leader of a 2,000 male and
    female androids who carry out his every wish.

38: "Metamorphosis" A cloud-like alien creature refuses to let her "lover", a
    space pioneer, leave a desolate planet.

39: "Journey to Babel" Kirk must deal with murder aboard ship as he transports
    planetary delegates, including Spocks parents, across th cosmos.

40: "Friday's Child" Kirk and crew are forced to care for a tribal leader's
    pregnant wife when they break a planetary taboo.

41: "The Deadly years" After visiting a planet, Kirk, Spock, McCoy, and Scotty
    begin to age rapidly, losing their ability to command the Enterprise.

42: "Obsession" Determine to destroy a deadly, gaseous creature, Kirk puts his
    career on the line.

43: "Wolf in the fold" When the lights go out, it's murder, and Scotty is
    suspected of being a futuristic Jack the Ripper.

44: "The trouble with Tribbles" On a mission to deliver vital materials, Kirk
    must deal with Klingons and cute purring creatures the multiply at an
    alarming rate.

45: "The Gamesters of Triskelion" To amuse themselves, the remaining
    inhabitants of a mysterious planet bet on games of death, and force
    Kirk to play.

46: "A piece of the action" Effectively, Star Trek meets the Untouchables,
    as Kirk and Spock must reform a planets that's run like a movie version
    of the '30s Chicago.

47: "The immunity Syndrome" The Enterprise must destroy a giant amoeba-like
    creature that threatens to engulf the galaxy.

48: "A private little war" To maintain the balance of power, Kirk must arm
    a warring tribal faction.

49: "Return of tomorrow" The three survivors of an advance civilization must
    use the bodies of Kirk, Spock and a female scientist to build robot
    replicas, but one doesn't want to give its body back.

50: "Patterns of Force" Kirk attempts to find out why a planet has evolved
    like Nazi Germany.

51: "By any other name" The Enterprise is hijacked by aliens intent on
    destroying all human life.

52: "The omega glory" When warring Yangs and Comms do at it, Kirk becomes
    involved.

53: "The ultimate computer" A malevolent computer disregards its creators'
    orders and begins thinking thoughts of destruction.

54: "Bread and Circuses" The Enterprise visits a planet that mixes modern
    technology with the lifestyle of ancient Rome.

55: "Assignment Earth" Robert Lasing stars as a human raised by aliens who
    hopes are to avoid World War III. Actually, it's the pilot for an unsold
    series with little more than cameos by the Trek crew.

Star Trek: The 3rd Season
-------------------------

56: "Spocks Brain" A group from a dying planet steals Spock's Brain.

57: "The Enterprise incident" Kirk crosses the Neutral Zone to steal the
    cloaking device from the Romulans.

58: "The paradise syndrome" An amnesiac Captain Kirk marries a beautiful
    alien, unaware of he planet's impending doom.

59: "And the small children shall lead" Lawyer Melvin Belli plays a black
    angel what has turned children into all powerful killers.

60: "Is there no truth in beauty?" When Spocks accidentally gazes at a
    Medusan ambassador, he is destined for madness unless the diplomat's
    jealous companion will help.

61: "Spectre of the gun" After violating Melkotian space, Kirk, Spock
    and McCoy are send to the OK Corral to face their doom.

62: "Day of the dove" Klingons battle humans at the bidding of an alien
    creature that thrives on hate.

63: "For the world is hollow and I have touched the sky" A dying McCoy is
    enslaved by the queen of a hollow world.

64: "The Tholian web" The Tholian attempt to snare the Enterprise is their
    deadly web as Kirk lies helpless in hyperspace.

65: "Plato's Stepchildren" Telepathic citizens of a Platonius enslave the
    Enterprises crew.

66: "Wink of an eye" An advance rave with an even more advance metabolism
    attempts to steal the Enterprise.

67: "The Empath" Kirk, Spock, and McCoy teach the notion of compassion to a
    mute girl who has the gift of sensing emotion and transferring pain.

68: "Elaan of Troyius" a Trek version of The Taming of the Shrew, with Kirk
    attempting to tame a tempestuous gueen.

69: "Whom god destroy" A madman attempting to conquer the universe has the
    power to change shape.

70: "Let that be your last battlefield" Warring aliens continue their 50,000
    year struggle aboard the Enterprise.

71: "Mark of Gideon" Rulers of an overpopulated planet attempt to fool
    Captain Kirk into introducing death to the populace.

72: "That which survives" Kirk and McCoy face certain death when the
    Enterprise is hurtled a thousand light years away.

73: "The lights of zetar" Scotty's love interest faces death when mysterious
    lights invade her mind.

74: "Requiem for Methuselah" An alien claims he has lived on Earth as some of
    the most influential men of history.

75: "The what to eden" a futuristic hippie and his and attempt to find a
    planetary paradise by hijacking the Enterprise.

76: "The cloud minders" Class systems are challenged when Kirk and Spock
    become embroiled in a slave rebellion.

77: "The savage curtain" Kirk and Spock, aided by Abe Lincolin and the
    Valcon father figure Surak, must battle the most evil villains of all
    time to appease an alien.

78: "All out yesterdays" Kirk, Spock and Dr. McCoy seem to be transported
    to a different eras in Earth's past when the visit a dying planet.

79: "The turnabout intruder" In an effort to take over the Enterprise, and
    evil female scientist transfers her mind into the body of Captain Kirk.


Well, thats it! Every Star Trek episode. I hope this file is helpful in your
watching one of TV's greatest Science Fiction show ever, Star Trek.


Written by: Apple Avenger 3/06/85

"Star Trek" Is a Trademark of Paramount Pictures Corporation Registered in the
U.S. Patent and Trademark office.
---------------------------------------
