:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
:   Earth's Dreamlands    :  Info on: RPG's,  :(313)558-5024 : area code    :
:RPGNet World HQ & Archive: Drugs, Industrial :(313)558-5517 : changes to   :
:  1000's of text files   :  music, Fiction,  :InterNet      : (810) after  :
:   No Elite / No porn    :   HomeBrew Beer.  :rpgnet@aol.com: Dec 1,1993   :
:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:

Here it is... Star Trek meets AD&D. I hope you like this and will send
me comments, suggestions, and ideas. A nice companion to this guide is The
Complete Guide to AD&D Technology. 

Thanks,
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
\                                                                           /
/  Reid D. Bluebaugh               BITNET   - C2MXBLUE.FRE.TOWSON.EDU       \
\                                  INTERNET - C2MXBLUE.FRE.FSU.UMD.EDU      /
/  Creator and Compiler of...                                               \
\                                                                           /
/  THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO AD&D SEX            =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-==-=-=-=--=-=-=\
\  THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO AD&D ALCOHOL *      / Do you play Car Wars, Toon,  /
/  THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO AD&D HYGIENE        \ Boot Hill, or Ghostbusters?  \
\  THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO AD&D TECHNOLOGY     / I would be interested in     /
/  THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO AD&D STAR TREK      \ discussing them with you.    \
\  THE ANTI-GIBBERING SYSTEM                 /-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=/
/  ALTERNATIVE W.W.F. WRESTLING PROF.        \ I no longer keep archives of \
\  THE BLUE BALL BOWLING SYSTEM              / my material. To get my stuff /
/  THE ULTIMATE BAG O' BEANS *               \ FTP Greyhawk.Stanford.Edu.   \
\  THE LUCK ABILITY SCORE                    / It is in the directories     /
/  GRENADE WEAPON SPECIALIZATION             \ D_D \ incoming \ REID. If    \
\  GUIDE TO DICE GAMES                       / you like them let me know!   /
/                                            \-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=\
\ * not available, being revised             / Flames are always welcome !! /
 =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                          A GUIDE TO STAR TREK
 
                     IN ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS
 
                                   BY
 
                    REID BLUEBAUGH     MARC CARLSON
 
 
                      Space: The Final Frontier...
 
                                                   -- Gene Rodenberry
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                   @ COPYRIGHT 1993 by REID BLUEBAUGH
 
  The following game is the property of its author, who hearby states
 that he reatins the copyright. You may distribute it at will, provided
   that nothing in the guide, this notice, or any of the credits are
     altered in any way; and that you do not make a profit from it.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                           TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
Preface
 
Alien Species In Star Trek
 
The People
 
A Few Weapons Of Star Trek
 
Adventure Story
 
"Fifty Ways To Kill An Ensign"
 
Special Thanks
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                                PREFACE
 
 
     The information presented here is so that the DM may create NPCs
based on the Star Trek environment. The information isn't extensive
enough for the creation of Star Trek characters. For people who wish to
play with Star Trek characters, they should purchase the Star Trek
Roleplaying Game. Since few people play both the Star Trek Roleplaying
Game and Advanced Dungeons and Dragons, a conversion system isn't
presented because it would be extremely complex.
     The information presented here is for a DM to run AD&D adventures
in the Star Trek environment without playing the complicated Star Trek
Roleplaying Game.
 
                                             Reid Bluebaugh
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                       ALIEN SPECIES IN STAR TREK
 
 
 
TABLE: Racial Ability Requirements
 
Ability          Human    Klingon   Vulcan    Romulan
Strength          3/18      6/21      6/21      3/18
Dexterity         3/18      3/18      3/18      3/18
Constitution      3/18      3/18      4/19      4/19
Intelligence      3/18      3/18      6/21      4/19
Wisdom            3/18      3/18      3/18      3/18
Charisma          3/18      2/17      2/17      3/18
 
Ability           Kzin    Andorian  Tellarite   Gorn
Strength          3/24      6/21      2/17      3/24
Dexterity        14/24      4/19      3/18      2/17
Constitution      3/18      3/18      4/19      4/19
Intelligence      3/18      4/19      3/18      3/18
Wisdom            3/18      4/19      3/18      3/18
Charisma          3/18      2/17      1/16      1/16
 
Ability         Betazoid  Bajoran  Cardassian  Ferengi
Strength          3/18      3/18      3/18      2/16
Dexterity         3/18      3/18      3/18      2/16
Constitution      3/18      3/18      4/19      3/18
Intelligence      3/18      4/19      3/18      3/18
Wisdom            3/18      4/19      3/18      3/18
Charisma          3/18      3/18      2/17      1/16
 
 
TABLE: Racial Ability Adjustments
 
Race           Adjustments
Tera Human     -----
Human          Varies by world of origin based on gravity (When working
               in a "normal" G-Field):
               Lt. Gravity:  -3 Strength; +3 Dexterity, -30% Weight
               Hv. Gravity:  +3 Strength; -3 Constitution, +30% Weight
Klingon        +3 Strength; -1 Charisma
Vulcan         +3 Strength; +3 Intelligence; +1 Constitution;
               -1 Charisma
Romulan        +1 Intelligence; +1 Constitution
Kzin           Strength (3d8); Dexterity (2d6 + 12)
Andorian       +3 Strength; +1 Dexterity; +1 Intelligence; +1 Wisdom;
               -1 Charisma
Tellarite      -1 Strength; +1 Constitution; -2 Charisma
Gorn           Strength (3d8); -1 Dexterity; +1 Constitution;
               -2 Charisma
Betazoids      No Adjustments
Bajorans       +1 Intelligence; +1 Wisdom
Cardassians    +1 Constitution; -1 Charisma
Ferengi        Strength (2d8); Dexterity (2d8); -2 Charisma
 
 
TABLE: Average Height And Weight (Male/Female)
 
               Height In Inches        Weight In Pounds
Race           Base    Modifier     Base          Modifier
Human         69/55     2d10      154/132           6d10
Klingon       88/74     2d12      176/111           5d20
Vulcan        80/74     2d10      154/111           5d10
Romulan       70/60     2d10      154/111           4d10
Kzin          96/84     2d12      400/300           5d20
Andorian     100/78     2d10      154/88            1d20
Tellarite     78/96     2d10      176/330           6d20
Gorn          87/61     2d12      440/220           5d20
Betazoid      69/55     2d10      154/132           6d10
Bajoran       69/55     2d10      154/132           6d10
Cardassian    88/74     2d6       154/120           3d10
Ferengi       59/65     2d4       130/160           3d10
 
 
TABLE: Age
 
                Maximum Age Range
Race            (Base + Variable)
Human             90  + 2d20
Klingon           50  + 3d10
Vulcan           150  + 5d20
Romulan          125  + 3d20
Kzin              50  + 3d20
Andorian          90  + 2d20
Tellarite         50  + 2d20
Gorn              30  + 1d20
Betazoid         100  + 5d10
Bajoran         [100  + 5d10]
Cardassian       [50  + 3d10]
Ferengi          [50  + 2d20]
 
 
Algolian, pl. Algolians
     These tall humanoids have a gold leathery skin w/ small circular
openings about the head.  They have wide set nostrils, and atop their
head runs a single ridge, back to front.  Algolians are famous for
their "Ceremonial Rhythms."
 
Andorian, pl. Andorians
     Andorians are humanoids with blue skin, white hair, and knobby
antennae on top of their heads.  They have no visible ears.  No veins
in circulatory system.
     Andorians are by nature a violent race, but need reasons to
quarrel.  They generally appear as controlled as Vulcans.
     Families are important to Andorians, with marriages being made up
of groups of four.  They are not big believers in charity.
 
Antican, pl. Anticans
     These "humanoid" beings bear a vague similarity to both
Terrestrial canines and felines.  They have longish muzzles, leathery
skin and large balding craniums, although they have shaggy burnsides
and moustaches.  They are carnivorous, demanding fresh meat.  They
share the Beta Renna system with their ancient enemies, the Selay.
 
Arcturian, pl.Arcturians
     These humanoids have a saggy gray skin, with numerous sags and
folds on the face.
 
Bajor or Bajoran, pl. Bajora or Bajorans
     The inhabitants of the planet Bajor belong to an ancient society
with firm a dedication to spiritual pursuits. Striking architecture
with rounded domes and spherical shapes marks the landscape of the
world. The ancient Bajora were great architects and engineers "before
humans were even standing erect."
     The people are deeply mystical, and believe in spiritual
phenomena.  They are devoted to a non-secular philosophy that differs
greatly from Humanity's rational, scientific way of life.
     The Bajoran religious leader, known as the Kai, resides in the
ancient monastery that is the center of spiritual life surrounded by
monks who meditate and chant in chords.  He or she challenges
conventional human logic.  The Kai seem to have an awareness on a
higher plane of consciousness, knowing things they cannot possibly
know.  The 'powers'of the Kai are not always easy for more secular
minds to accept at face value, but neither can they always be
explained. The Kai often speaks in vague, mystical and indirect
language, forcing the listener to seek the meaning.
     The Celestial Temple of the Prophets, the source of the "Tears
of the Prophets", the mysterious orbs that have arrived each millenia
to teach the populace, are among the fundamental sacraments of the
Bajoran religion.  The Pagh, roughly translated as "energy meridian,"
can be explored through deep tissue massage of their ears, an
exploration that seems to reveal a person's true
nature.  The Pagh is more than soul, or fate, but contains aspects of
each.  Another word for soul, as well as meaning Ghost, or Spirit is
Borhya.  Borhyas often remain after the body's death to give the person
time to say goodbye to his or her past life.
     The ritual "Death Chant" sung by the monks is at least 2 hours
long.
     Since the Cardassian Invasion of Bajor, and the subsequent rape of
the planet's resources  Much of the culture has changed, as this people
try to adapt to the needs of survival.  Even with the Cardassian
withdrawal, the political situation remains precarious and the only
stabilizing influence is the Kai. Bajoran terrorists still populate
refugee camps on neighboring planets.
 
Barzan, pl. Barzani
     These humanoids have raised eyebrows and upswept "V" shaped
forehead ridges.  They must wear a breather unit.  The Barzan culture
is impoverished.
 
Benzite, pl. Benzites.
     These beings are humanoid in shape. They are hairless, with a
plue-gray skin.  Facially, they bear more of a similarity to cat-fish
than to humans, with feeler-like protrusions over-laying the mouth, and
a mere nose slit.  They have three fingers and two opposable thumbs.
And they wear a special breathing unit that sit in front of their
mouth.
     Benzites come from the planet Benzar.  They have broad, possibly
social, units called "Geostructures," and Benzites from the same
geostructure tend to appear identical to non-Benzites.
 
Betazoid, pl.Betazoids
     While Betazoids are essentially humans, they are listed
individually because of their culture.  The only physical differences
between Betazoids and Earth Humans are a 10 month gestation period, and
the entire population has eyes with solid dark pupils.  Their pulse is
aboute 76 BPM, BP is 110/72, respiration of 20, and a body temperature
of 37.2 C.  Betazoid women are not considered fully matured until they
reach their "Phase," somewhere in their 40s or 50s when they reach
Midlife.  At this point, their sexual drive quadruples, and they are
considered to be fully sexual.
     Their homeworld of Betazed is Earthlike, and has large oceans.
Betazoids are telepathic as a race, although they are often merely
empathic when dealing with other races.  They are often uncomfortable
around those species whose minds they can not read, like the Ferengi or
the Breen.  This telepathy is usually acquired at adolescence, and has
created a society based on total honesty.  There is a ritual "genetic
bonding," a form of arranged marriage, performed with Betazoid
children.   The actual "Joining ceremony" of adults is performed with
all participants and guests in the nude, to symbolize the act of love
being celebrated.
 
Bolian, pl. Bolians
     The inhabitants of Bolius IX come in three basic colors: light
green with a yellowish tinge; a blue tinged darker green; and a deeper,
nearly flourescent blue.  Men are bald, while the women have shorter
hair, often reflecting the predominant color of their skin.  Bolians
have a small double ridge that vertically bisects their bodies, and
long ears.
 
Borg, pl. Borg
     The Borg may be more than one humanoid species who have been
transformed into a vast group mind, interconnected collective of
cyborgs.  The various Borg, and Borg vessels are interconnected through
a subspace communications network.  They are responsible for the
destruction and "assimilation" of many civilizations.  They have an
extremely high technology level.
 
 
Breen, pl. Breen
     Nothing is really known about this race beyond the fact that they
are impenetrable to Betazoid telepathic powers.
 
Brekkans/Onarons
     The inhabitants of these two planets are apparently identical in
species.  They are humanoid, but for a small ridgy surface at the
bridge of the nose.  They are capable of generating intense electrical
charges from their bodies.
 
Bulanoan, pl. Bulanoans
     These humanoids have a grayish reptilian skin and a scaly face,
although they have hair sweeping around the rear of their heads.
 
Bynar, pl. Bynars
     This diminuative humanoid race has a fairly large cranium:body
ration.  They are asexual.  They have asymetrical ears, a lilght purple
tone to their skin, and a ruff of purple hair along the base of the
otherwise hairless skull.
     Bynars come from the planet Bynus, a planet in the Beta Magellan
system.  They often travel in pairs, and work in pairs.  They are
cybernetically interconected with their world's master computer by
means of "mechanical" data buffers and biochips.
 
Caitian, pl. Caitians
     These bipedal felinoids are human size.  Females have thick manes,
but otherwise have a fine short hair pelt, long tails, and large golden
eyes.  Males have no manes.  Their fur is either orange or brown,
although they may come in other colors.
 
Caldonian, pl. Caldonians
     A very tall humanoid race, with a large bony forehead.  They
appear to have only three digits on their hands.  The planet Caldonia
is committed to scholarship and research as its primary trade product.
 
Cardassian, pl. Cardassians
     Cardassians are tall humanoids, long necked, covered with cord-
like ridges, especially along the jaws, ears, and parallel ridges
sweeping up and away from the deep eye sockets and over the top of the
head.  They have a grayish skin color.
     Cardassians were once a spiritual people, but due to increasing
poverty brought on, apparently by depletion of their natural resources,
they have become a visciously aggressive people, who have been
described as having a "wolf-pack mentality." That there is a cultural
struggle for dominance even in social settings is obvious even in the
subtleties of their architecture, placing the dominant person above his
subordinants.
 
Cheronian, pl. Cheronians
     The inhabitants of the planet Cheron are humanoid, with skin tones
of black and white evenly dividing the body in half.  They have the
ability to generate electrical charges from their bodies.  One was able
to telepathically gain control of a ship's navigational computers, but
this may have been an individual attribute, and not a species wide
ability.
 
Chrysalian, pl. Chrysalians
     Un undescribed reace refered to as having "been at peace for more
than 10 generations." They apparently do not get involved in
interstellar matters.
 
Deltan, pl. Deltans
     Deltans are an ancient, highly evolved race who appear completely
human, and are listed individually because of their culture.  The only
physical difference between Deltans and Earth Humans are a 10 month
gestation period.  Deltans are either bald, or have thick luxurient
white hair, which is never cut.  They have an effective exocrine
systems that radiates pheromones that have an extreme effect on Humans.
They are psi-empathic from birth.  There is a strong psychic bond
between a Deltan child and its mother.
     Deltans never bothered to explore Outer space, being far too
interested in Inner space, and finding adventure and fulfillment within
themselves.  However, they are among the best navigators known.
     A major part of the Deltan culture is the sexual act.  Deltans
combine not merely their bodies but their minds and souls during sex,
finding it far more fulfilling than the mere physical act.  Because
Humans are often emotionally incapacitated by this aspect of sex, and
find the thought of returning to the unfulfilling human act
intolerable, it is Starfleet policy that Deltans serving with "sexually
immature" species must take an oath of celibacy.
     Deltan females often wear a "love band" about their heads to
identify their sexual status.  A male simply touching this band can
invoke a sexual responce.
 
Edo, pl. Edo
     These beings are tripeds, with 3 arms.  They have orange skin,
and yellow eyes.
 
 
              EXTRAGALACTIC, OR EXTRADIMENSIONAL CREATURES
 
 
     These include the Traveler's people, the Kelvans, and Syliva
and Kolb, the servants of the Old Ones.
 
Ferengi, pl. Ferengi
     Ferengi are short, twisted humanoids, with huge hairless heads,
big ears and sharp teeth.  A forehead tatoo indicates the particular
Ferengi is in the military.  Ferengi have yellow blood.
     The Ferengi don't care about courage, although they are careful to
cultivate the appearence of courage.  Cheating and stealing are tests
of cunning and skill.  Ferengi feel that a victim of a scam is at fault
because they were not smart enough to protect themselves, nor were they
wiley enough to get revenge.
     Ferengi have a form of "honor," typified by the Ferengi Code,
which dictates theri behavior when caught doing something wrong.
     Ferengi men do not live with Ferengi women, and male children are
brought up by their fathers.
     They are impenetrable to Betazoid telepathic powers, possibly due
to their four "Brain nodes."
 
"First Federation"
     The inhabitants of the "First Federation" are very small humanoids
that look like small, bald children
 
Gorn, pl. Gorn
     These seven foot tall bipeds are intellegent reptiles.  They are
very strong.  They have three fingers (2 fingers and an opposable
digit), and multi-faceted eyes, much like an insect's.
 
Grizela, pl. Grizelas
     An intellegent, hybernating species.
 
Human, pl. Humans
     There are effectively three forms of humanity in the galaxy.
There are humans born on Earth (Terra), there are humans who were born
on any of the over a thousand colony worlds; and there are those humans
that have no apparent Earth human ancestry.  Among this third
population include the Morg and Eymorg of Sigma Draconis VII, the
Catulans, the Gideonites, the Iotions, the Zeons and Ekosian, and so
forth.  One might have difficulty classifying the inhabitants of
"parallel" Earths, such as the Onlies of Miri's World, the Yangs and
Khoms of Omega IV, or the Romans of Planet 892-VI, but for our
purposes, they should be considered a portion of the third population.
     On some of the many worlds of humanity, particularly those that
have been inhabited for a long time, the population has often evolved
slightly in order to better adapt to local conditions.  This evolution
is best seen in the differences based on gravity.
     Regardless of this, on all planets inhabited by beings with a
basically Human physiology, those beings are considered as Human.  This
is despite unimportant variations in height, weight, skin coloration,
sensory enhancement, or other superficial differences.  In general,
humans range in skin tone from a light tan, with red tints, through a
variety of brown and red shades, to a nearly black shade with purple
highlights.
     It should be remembered that although two Humans may have
basically the same physical characteristics, their motivations and
cultural backgrounds may well be very different.
     Socially, humanity is continually developing, evolving out of the
dark night of the late 20th and 21st centuries, and the aggressive
period of colonization of the 22nd.  Even so, they still often appear
as adolescents against more mature civilizations such as the Vulcans,
the Deltans and the Betazoids.
 
Jarada (pronounced Harada), pl. Jarada
     The Jarada are a reclusive insect race with a hive-mind culture.
They are protocol obsessive and easily offended.
 
Klingon, pl. Klingons
     Physically, the members of the Klingon species appear to be
similar to Terran Humans.  They tend to be larger in size than humans,
with a greater muscle mass ratio, and they tend to reach their full
height at an earlier age than do humans.
     There are a number of distinguishing features, however.  The most
notable is that Klingons have a large bony ridged patterned forehead,
with a central ridge that begins at the tip if the nose and follows the
centerline of the body over the top of the head, and down to the base
of the spine.  They also have short, hair-like spines on their legs and
a single, large claw on each foot.
     Internally, there are a number of differences between Klingons and
Humans, including a large number of secondary backups for biological
systems.  They have a large, 8 chambered heart, two livers, 23 ribs,
double lines neural pia matter, a backup synaptic system, and even a
small, auxiliary brain at the base of their spinal column, protected by
the pelvic girdle.
     Klingon blood is a bright magenta and quickly dries to a red/brown
color.
     Klingons have at least two skin tones, and it is reported that the
darker skinned Klingons come from the northern regions, while the
lighter skinned come from the more southern.  Even so, Klinonds tend to
be dark of complexion and hair color, as compared to humans, and male
Klingons usually wear beards and mustaches.
     Klingons have an excellent sense of smell, and good vision.
     Klingons are, by nature, hunters, and the flame of the predator
burns in their blood.  Their preferred food is flesh, preferably raw
and either freshly killed or else still living. This ancestral passion
for violence, deeply rooted in their genetic structure, has shaped
their culture, marking it as a true warrior's society.
     Aggression and conflict are natural, preferred states for most
Klingons.  Klingons have a long tradition of settling personal disputes
and disagreements through physical confrontations.
     While their emotions are turbulent and at times savage, at times,
Klingons will show a tenderness, and thoughtfulness that is surprising
to the unprepared.  In general, Klingon society stresses physical
strength and fighting skills above mere intellectual achievement, and
it seems that most Klingon scientific effort goes into developing tools
of warfare.  However, the works of Klingon novelists, as well as their
art, opera and poetry show this not to be the case.  The "tea
ceremony," named for the human ritual it vaguely resembles, is an
artistic masterpiece of ritual.
     Klingons come from the planet Kronos, a green world orbiting the
star Klingon.  It has one major landmass, the rest of the planet
remaining covered by ocean.  This large area of open sea, and the
planet's seriously tilted axis, combine to give the planet a very
turbulent atmosphere, and a broad range of temperatures, extending to
the extremes.
     The government of the "Klingon Imperial Empire" is not always
clear.  While there has been mention in the past of an Emperor, there
is no sign of such a person.  The Empire is governed by the Klingon
High Council, consisting of about ten Councilors, and the Supreme
Commander.  Whether the Supreme Commander also holds the title of
Chancellor is not known.
     At least for the males, the Klingon cultural hierarchy is similar
to that of some terrestrial primates, in their contests for dominance
with in the "tribe," with, in theory, the most dominant Klingon ruling
the empire.  This may not be exactly true, and it appears that in the
upper levels of the government there are other roads to power than mere
physical prowess.  But every dominant male must be prepared for
challenges to his authority from the more submissive males.  Personal
charisma has little importance to Klingons society than strength.
     Central to an understanding of Klingon culture is the Klingon view
of honor.  Honor is very important to a Klingon, and a Klingon's
personal honor is closely intertwined with that of his family.  It is
the family and the relationship of the family to the larger "tribe"
that sets the pattern of behavior toward the "tribe" as a whole.  These
are described in the myths and legends of Kahless the Unforgettable and
his brother Morath.
     A Klingon male's personal relationship to the "tribe" of Klingon
society can be seen by noting several of the rites of passage a Klingon
must go through.
     The first of these is the "Age of Inclusion."  This is the age at
which a child is recognized by the "tribe" as a living entity.  It
occurs about the age of 6. Prior to this time, the child is reared as
though it were a true Klingon child, but with the recognition that in
the violence of the world, that child may die with no great sense of
loss to the family.
     The second major rite of passage is the Age of Ascension, when the
Klingon child becomes a Klingon Adult, and a full member of the
"tribe."  This rite is celebrated when the child is about 16 years old.
Every 10 years after that, a portion of the ceremony is repeated, with
tests of skill and courage to show the Klingon's friends and family the
depth of his personal strength, and thereby his value to the tribe.
This importance of belonging to the tribe may be seen in the Ritual of
Discommendation, where a Klingon is formally ostracized, turned out
from the "tribe."  A Klingon who has gone through this ritual is
considered dead by all Klingons, and where possible it is made to seem
as though that person had never existed.
     Another important ritual is the Bonding, the Rustaii, which makes
an outsider a part of a Klingon's family.
     The role of women in Klingon society is not clearly understood
yet, but it appears that women are not accepted into political power.
In sexual matters, however, it is the woman who is the more aggressive.
     Little is known about Klingon child bearing and rearing, but   it
appears that the Klingon gestation period is about 111 days, and that
during the first few years the growth of the child is very rapid.  This
implies a delay in the full development of the Klingon brain, a
development that takes place after birth rather than in the womb, but
of course this is conjectural.
     There is a classic belief that Klingons move up through the ranks
by assassination, can not be true, since there are old Klingons in high
ranking positions, and besides that would mean a tremendous level of
attrition among the ranks.  However, should a Klingon leader cease to
be able to command effectively, killing him before he dishonors himself
or weakens his unit, is an honorable action.  Also, any subservient
males who remained under a weak male are, by implication, expressing
their own weaknesses.
     Murders and challenges to power, however, should not be anonymous
things.  A Klingon ordered to kill a prisoner will make certain that
the victim first sees the face of his or her killer.  A knife to the
heart is an honorable death, as is dying by any weapon.  Stabbing or
shooting the victim in the back, by the way, may be considered a
courtesy, so that the victim needn't dishonor himself either by further
by fighting his inevitable death, and spared the indignity of being
wrestled to the ground.  A knife to the heart is an honorable death, as
is dying by any weapon.
     On the other hand, killing by poison is not honorable because the
assassin can do so and not never let his victim know who his murderer
was.  The same is true of sniping at a target from a distance.  And it
may be this philosophy that has kept the Klingon race from destroying
itself with nuclear weapons.
     Illness is not considered honorable, and so the level of Klingon
medicine is quite primitive, by comparison to that of Humans.  A
Klingon who is seriously ill, or debilitated by physical injury is
expected to kill himself, in order to keep from dishonoring his family,
as well as forcing them to endure a lingering illness.
     Klingons, as a rule, do not lie, and take a VERY dim view of those
who do.  Klingons do not cheat, steal or bluff, either.  Klingons do
not drink or socialize with their enemies, outside of specified neutral
areas, where this rigidness may be relaxed to an extent. Klingons do
not take hostages, as that is a cowardly act, although they are capable
of committing savage reprisals against subject populations.  Klingons
never surrender, and have absolutely no regard for anyone that would so
dishonor himself.  With their concept of honor above life, death in the
line of duty is the best death for a warrior. Klingons do not fear
death, but rather they celebrate the release of the spirit at death,
noting the instant with a ceremonial wailing to warn the dead that a
Klingon will soon be among them.
     Little is known of the Klingon spiritual life.  They have a belief
in Jat'lyn, or the possession of the living by the dead, and while they
have no devil in thier religion, they do have Fek'lyr, who guards the
souls of the dishonored.
 
Koinonian, pl. Koinonians
     Little is known about this humanoid race that destroyed itself
in a multi-generational war centuries ago.
 
Kriosian, pl. Kriosians
     Not to be confused with the Klingon colony of Krios, the world of
Krios, like that of its colony world of Valt Minor is inhabited by a
humanoid race, distinguishable from human only by a line of "leopard"
or "giraffe" spots along the hairline and down the neck.  This race
produces "empathic metamorphs," of both genders (although the female is
more rare than the male).  Whese metamorphs reach sexual maturity, they
begin to emit high levels of pheromones, and begin to empathically
adapt themselves to the members of the appropriate gender around them,
becoming the "Perfect Mate" for the one they finally bond with.
 
Kzin, pl. Kzinti
     (Note:  Animated Series only)
     The Kzinti are a species of large felinoids, or cat creatures.
They range about 8' tall, standing bipedally, and weigh in excess of
300 lbs.  They are covered in orange and black fur, have claws that
extend from their finger tips, ears that resemble Chinese parasol
segments, and long naked rat-like tails.  They are culturally
carnivorus, although, biologically omnivorous.  They have an extensive
rib structure that acts as a form of internal armor.
     They are a warrior species, bred and genetically engineered in
antiquity by their ancestors to be the equal of their legendary heros.
They are extremely aggressive and competitive, each Kzin struggling to
achieve fame and glory.  The Kzinti have fought Humanity in four wars,
and were eventually beaten each time.  They had been at a medieval
cultural level, and about a rennaissance technological level when they
were discovered by the five armed Jatoki.  The Jatoki tried to hire the
Kzin as a mercenary species, and in turn became the Kzinti first slave
race.
     While the male Kzinti were being reborn as Heros, the females were
being genetically reassembled into barely-sentient subservience.
     The Rijt are the Patriarch's clan, or the ruling family of Kzin.
In general Kzinti have no names, and are merely designated by their
job, until they earned a name, or partial name, through some grand and
heroic activity.
     Some Kzin have telepathic powers, although these are rare.  They
are addicts of a hormone extracted from the Sthondat, an animal from
the Kzin Homeworld.  Telepaths are often nearly insane, by either Kzin
or Human standards.  They are also careless about their appearance, and
are in many ways the antithesis of the Kzin Hero.
 
Medusan, pl. Medusans
     Nothing is known about the physical description of these beings,
except that if they are corporeal, they are very small.  The mere sight
of a Medusan will drive nearly anyone, of any race, insane.  Medusans
are excellent navigators.
 
Melkot, pl. Melkotians, or Melkots
     This highly civilized race is very xenophobic. They appear to be
nothing more than a head and a neck ending in tentacles, floating above
the ground.  They also have large round, bright yellow glowing eyes.
However, considering their tremendous mental powers, including
telepathy and illusion, this may not be their true appearance.
 
Mintakan, pl. Mintakans
     These are vulcanoids, although with a more pronounced forehead
bulge.  Their culture is at a level equivalent to early bronze age.
 
Mizarian, pl. Mizarians, also Myzarians
     These humanoids are white skinned, with wrinkled, striated faces,
and usually wear elaborate hoods resembling the Sydney Opera House.
The people of the planet Mizar II are by nature intellectual pacifists.
The planet has been conquered 6 times in the past 300 years.
 
Orion, pl. Orions
     Note:  It is assumed that there is a connection between these and
the inhabitants of "O'Ryans Planet" mentioned in the background
literature of ST:TMP.
     Orion slave girls are humanoid, green and exotic.  Allegedly
animals bred for pleasure.
     Shaman priests are humanoid, but biological details are hidden
behind featureless golden masks and leather ceremonial garb resembling
that of a Native American plains tribe as viewed in a television
western.
 
Pakled, pl. Pakled
     These are rotund, lethargic humanoids with bushy upswept eyebrows,
bulging forehead, heavily bagged eyes, and a dewlip.  They are not the
most intellegent race in the galaxy, but they are fairly sneaky.
 
Pentarus (?)
     These are humanoids indistinguishable from human, but for a single
bushy eyebrow across the forehead, although this may just be a fashion
statement.
 
Romulan, pl. Romulans
     Romulans are the descendents of an ancient Vulcan colony, and
hence are physically similar to Vulcans, although some Romulans have
bulkier foreheads.  "Romulan" is the name of the race given by the
Earth Space Forces that met them in combat, basing their views on the
unseen foe on the details they could piece together from combat tactics
and debris details that were reminiscent of Ancient Rome.
     The Romulan home world is the third world of a binary star system,
call Romulus and Remii by Human astronomers.  The home world is, in
turn part of a dual planet system, and is also called Romulus.  Romulus
is geologically very active.  It has two continents, Dektenb and
Masfarik, and at least one sea, the Apnex.
The continent of Dektenb has the Firefalls of Gath Gal'thong and the
capitol city of Dartha.  Masfarik, on the other hand, is notably more
rocky and barren, with its cities set on the few oases on the
continent.
     Romulan cities are built vertically and very tall, from beautiful
and magestic monumental architecture at the top, and stretching down to
dark and grim catacombs set into the bed-rock of the planet.  Most
Romulans live in apartment complexes, with only those with the most
power living in individual, almost palatial houses.
     The Government consists of a single, powerful "Praetor," less
powerful, but possible as influential "Proconsuls," and a Senate.
     Romulans are intelligent, dedicated, and extremely efficient.
Romulans, unlike Vulcans, are very much creatures of pride, aggressive
emotions and passions, and possessing the capacity for great violence
when provoked.
     Romulans are superb warriors, fighting in a cool, calculating
manner, and conquest is considered the "Romulan Path to Glory." They
generally don't take prisoners, although they have been known to
capture prisoners for information, killing them  when their usefullness
comes to an end.  Romulans neither ask nor give quarter.  They will
destroy their own ships and people rather than allow them to be
captured, preferring an honorable suicide to failure.
     The Romulan lifestyle is Spartan and militaristic, with the
personal wants and needs of the individual often surrendered to the
good of the whole. Romulan leaders demand instant obedience from the
populace, and like many Human totalitarian regimes are seeming obsessed
with security.
     Romulan culture favors obedience over original thought and action,
and thus Romulan creative intellectual achievement is not as highly
developed as thier Vulcan cousins'.  Romulans seem to be missing the
Vulcan psychic powers, as well as such common Vulcan maneuvers as the
Neck Pinch. Romulans are sexually egalitarian.  Romulans view human
culture, and by extention, as exploitive and short-sighted.
     Romulans have an absolute belief in their own superiority.  They
are often highly manipulative in their affairs, adjusting circumstances
carefully, plotting as if playing a game of chess.  They will generally
wait for their adversaries to make aggressive moves first, testing the
resolve of their opponents.
     The Romulan salute to their superiors is the right fist struck
over the chest then held out, palm down.
 
Saurian
     Nothing is known of this species.
 
Selay, pl. Selay
     The Selay are bipedal reptiles and are about human height and
weight.  They have a cobra-like "hood,"and they are a dark green color.
They have an excellent sense of smell.  They have four digits, of which
the "dew claw" has evolved into an opposable thumb.  Their dark blue-
green planet orbits Beta Renna, a star they share with their ancient
enemies, the Anticans.
 
 
                             SHAPESHIFTERS
 
 
     These include the Antosians, the Chameloids and the Lassomorphs of
Daled IV.
 
Skeliak, pl. Sheliak
     The Sheliak Corporate is a reclusive culture that are fixated one
precision in language and view humanoids as lesser life-forms.  They
are technological humanoids that resemble a wrap of black, mucous
secreting folds and tenticles.
 
Solari, pl. Solarians
     These are stoop-shouldered, craggy-faced humanoids from the planet
Solais.  They have been engaged in a war between the blond and
brunettes of their population for the past 1500 years.
 
 
                               SUPERRACES
 
 
Talarian, pl. Talarians
     Talarians are outwardly humanoid, although they have a ridge on
the top of their heads, running front to back, and the men are balding.
Talarians express greetings by touching foreheads. They have a rigidly
patriarchal society.  The highest concepts in the culture are honor,
family and duty to their superiors. While they are ruthless in combat,
they will adopt an enemies' children.
 
Tanaguan, pl. Tanaguans
     These are humanoids with upswept eyebrows and 2-3  "V" shaped
ridges on the forehead.
 
Tellarite, pl. Tellarites
     Tellarites are heavy set humanoids, and their piglike faces gives
them a vaguely porcine appearence.  They are intensely aggressive,
boisterous, and argumentative for no reason other than the pleasure of
a good argument.  They are not always considered entirely trustworthy.
 
Talosian, pl. Talosians
     These are an ancient highly technological race of humanoids with
large hairless craniums.  They have tremendous psychic powers including
telepathy and illusion.
 
Tholian, pl. Tholians
     These beings appear to be red-gold, and almost crystaline entities
with large triangular white-glowing eyes.  They appear to exist in a
very hot climate.
 
Trill, pl. Trill
     The Trill are a joined species comprised of two separate but
interdependent entities; the host and the symbiont. The host provides a
humanoid body. The symbiont is an invertebrate, androgynous lifeform
that lives within the host. It looks like a short, fat snake, a foot
long lump of cranial and exoskeletal tissue.  The humanoid hosts have
an "M" shaped ridge on thier nose and forehead.
     Many centuries ago, the symbionts lived underground while the
humanoids were on the surface.  Due to an environmental disaster, they
were forced to 'join' to survive. As time went on, this mutual support
evolved into a biological interdependency.  Now, at a certain point in
the humanoid's life, in post-adolescence, some of the humanoids,
although not all of them, are joined with a symbiont and two
individuals become as one.  They speak with one voice, which means you
can't ask to speak with the symbiont or the host, only the combined
lifeform.  Although, it appears in some cases that the Trill becomes
the active party, supervising the functions of the body.  The host
becomes a merely passive observer.
     The symbiont's life span is far longer than the host's and as a
result one symbiont will be combined with several hosts during its
life.   When a host dies, doctors surgically remove the symbiont, which
then is reimplanted, burrowing itself into the new host.
     The result of this joining is often an serene character who brings
a calm, centered voice to any discussion.  It is possible that some of
the  personalities, memories, experiences, an so forth of some the
symbiont's previous "lives" can come back to haunt them, or otherwise
cause them problems.
     It is possible for the Trill entity to exist within another
species of humanoid than the normal host species.
 
Troyan, pl. Troyans
     Humanoids with blue skin and white hair.
 
Ullian, pl. Ullians
     This telepathic race appears humanoid, but for bulges in the
temple regions.
 
Vian, pl. Vians
     These are a highly technological race of humanoids with large
hairless craniums.
 
Vulcan or Vulcanian, pl. Vulcans or Vulcanians
               Vulcans are an ancient race, proud, dedicated, loyal,
honorable, and have a highly ritualized society devoted to logic and
the suppression of emotions.
     Vulcans are different in physiology and psychology from
Terrestrial Humans. They are Human-like in many respects, but in other
ways they are totally different.
     The pointed ears are obviously efficient at gathering sounds from
the thin Vulcan atmosphere.  Vulcans are stronger than Humans, with a
greater physical endurance.  The Vulcan heart is located about where
the Human liver sits in the abdominal cavity, thus implying a greater
lung capacity.  They have a higher metabolism than the Human norm.
     Vulcan blood chemistry is allegedly based on copper rather than
iron, although there are other arguements that their blood merely has
copper elements to it.  Regardless, their blood has little or no
sodium, and is a rich green color.  This tends to give them a somewhat
greenish-yellow complexion.  Some sources have given the Vulcan heart
rate as 242 BPM with a blood pressure of 80/40, implying larger blood
vessels.  However these same sources suggest that the green Vulcan
blood is merely due to the presence of the chlorocurin protein in the
blood, and not the copper elements.
     Vulcans tend to be tall and slender, with dark hair, although
there are some blondes.
     Vulcan eyes are protected from the glare of the harsh Vulcan sun
by a thin transparent membrane, much like a second eyelid.  This eyelid
also allows them to sleep with their eyes open.
     Finally Vulcans must return to their ancestral lands and mate
every seven years as they under go the Ponn Farr.  It may be assumed
that this need is part of their culture, rather than truly a biological
requirement, as it seems unreasonable that the inhabitants of Vulcan
colonies, including Romulus would have to return to Vulcan to mate,
although, they may have to return the the world they were born on.
     The name given to their home planet by human astronomers is
Vulcan, It is a harsh world, dry and hot, with higher gravity and a
thinner atmosphere than Earth. These conditions have shaped the
Vulcans' physical development.
     Vulcan's civilization and cultures are older than those of Earth.
In their prehistory, Vulcans were tribal and warlike, at least as
irrational, intensely emotional and savage as early Humans.  They were
aggressive, militaristic, and violent.  At its height, this
aggressiveness had allowed them to establish colonies on the planets of
distant stars.  Finally though, their savagery had brought them to the
last of the great wars that had all but destroyed their world.  They
were turned away from the final annihilation by the philosophies of
Surak, the father of Vulcan Logical Thought.  Surak introduced the
philosophy of logic, and the suppression of the intense Vulcan
emotions.
     Today's Vulcans do not express emotions, letting logical thought
and rational decision-making rule their lives.  Many Humans hold the
misconception that Vulcans have no emotions. This is not true, but it
is so widely believed that some Vulcans believe it themselves.
Actually, Vulcans hold in their emotional reactions.  They depend on
mental discipline to keep their emotions from affecting their thinking
and actions.
     This process is so much a part of Vulcan society, that it is
automatic for Vulcan adults, even under great stress. In fact, the
expression of emotion is considered to be in extremely bad taste in
Vulcan society, where only a barbarian or mental defective would hink
of such a thing.  Although even sophisticated and well-traveled Vulcans
find Human emotional expression baffling and somewhat distasteful,
Vulcans who are exposed to human cultures are usually able to live and
work around the emotional species in situations where less
sophisticated individuals might find intolerable. Nevertheless, even
the most inexperienced Vulcan ought not show his dismay, preferring to
avoid Human contact whenever possible.  This distancing often gives
them an aloof air, and so often Vulcans are intolerably rude by Human
standards.
     The pacifist philosophy that led to the development of Logic has
affected Vulcan culture in other ways as well.  For example, Vulcans
are cultural vegetarians, finding the idea of killing animals for food
unacceptable.  Generally, Vulcans will avoid killing except under the
most extreme provocation, nor will they use "deadly force" against
another living being.  For this reason, Vulcans rarely carry arms,
although a variety of martial art forms have been developed, and are
still taught, such as Tal Shaya, or "Merciful Execution," which can
kill, or the Neck Pinch, which is used to stun.  Some Vulcans have
carried this pacifism to an extreme, believing that there is never any
reason to kill any living being.
     The Vulcan pursuit of the logical ideal has led them to great
accomplishments in both the sciences and the arts. Intellectual
pursuits come naturally to Vulcans.
     They tend to be very private individuals, and dislike to be
touched, not even to shake hands.  Vulcans are very aware of their
self-image, and the simple proprieties can assume an importance that
may seem bewildering to outsiders.  Vulcans have a great appreciation
for beauty, even in the most simple things.  Even their rituals have a
simplicity and elegance to them.
     Another result of the intellectual/mystical/philosophical thrust
of Vulcan culture is the development of their mental powers to a level
matched by few other races.  Centuries of psychic exercises and mental
discipline have made the Vulcans capable of some remarkable mental
feats.  Many of these psychic feats are a regular part of the culture,
with most Vulcans able to perform them to some degree.  Among these is
the Vulcan form contact telepathy, called the "Mind Touch."
     The discipline of the Kolinar is the mastery of self and emotion,
as well as these psychic feats, leading to a negation of the concept of
"self."
     Central to "Vulcan Mysticism" are the concepts of NOME, or All,
and IDIC, translated as "Infinite Diversity in Infinite Combinations."
Zakdorn, pl. Zakdorn
     The Zakdorn, who may come from Qualar II, are a peaceful race
whose culture reflects a calm assurance and confidence.  They are
masters of organization and efficiency, methodical and fastidious.
They have also been, for the last 9 millenium, acknowledged the masters
of natural military strategy in the known galaxy.
     Physically, they are unimpressive.  They are rotund and slightly
twitchy, with pronounced baggy cheeks, jowls and facial folds.
 
Zalkonians
     These humanoids have ripple-lapped foreheads and cheeks.  They
are evolutionaly near discorporeation.
 
 
                             GOD-LIKE RACES
 
 
     These include such non-corporeal species as the Organians, the
Dowd, the Q, the Metrons, Trelaine's people, Thasians, "the Companion,"
the "Friendly Angel," and so forth.
     Treat the various super races in the table as gods without a need
for worshippers (with one exception) and the representatives listed
below as Avatars of those gods.
 
               "Q"       Trelaine  Apollo    Organian/Dowd  Metron
God Status     Greater   Lower     Lower     Greater        Lower
Type           Trickster War       Pastoral  Peace          Simplicity
Strength       12        15        18/27     10             12
Intelligene    25        17        18        25             25
Dexterity      13        15        19        10             12
Wisdom         15        11        18        25             18
Constitution   14        16        18        10             13
Charisma       12        14        19        10             14
Size           6'        6'        9'        6'             6'
Magic Res.     100%      25%       25%       100%           25%
Armor Class    10        2         0         10             10
Hit Dice       15        5         17        1              5
Hit Points     130       50        136       6              45
 
 
"Q"
     The Q Continuum is a collection of super entities about which
practically nothing is known. What information has been revealed is, at
best, highly suspect, as the only member of "The Continuum" humans have
so far dealt with has been a Trickster character.
 
 
                                UNKNOWNS
 
?????
    Short, furry humanoids. ("Journey to Babel")
 
?????
    Dark, pygmie-like humans. ("Journey to Babel")
 
?????
    Chubby humanoid with a three nostril nose, as well as pairs of dual
half-inch circular openings on each side of the chin and forehead.
They have one single-hole ear, and hair on the back half of the
cranium.  They may be Lyans. ("The Most Toys")
 
?????
    Reptillian, though females have well developed mammaries.
Hairless, they have a yellowish skin, and the rear of the cranium
extends back into a point. ("Unification", Emmisary")
 
?????
    Four armed humanoids for whom salt is a narcotic.  May be
called Filimase, and artistic species, with a home planet of
Talemestra. ("Unification")
 
?????
    Small humanoid with a greenish insect-like face ("Future
Imperfect")
 
?????
    Humanoids with respirator masks, large heads and robes.  May
be called Zaranites. (ST:TMP, ST:TVH)
 
?????
    Humanoids with grim, skull-like faces and an explosion of
bushy hair that comes in black and white. May be called Kazarites.
(ST:TMP)
 
?????
    Human-like with a tall cranium, and an insect/skull-like face with
sharp folds on cheeks and large pointed ears.  They have extremely long
hads that appear to be almost flippers.  They wear ornate, long-flowing
clothes.  may be called Betalgeusians (ST:TMP)
 
?????
    This humanoid has long yellowish/white hair, claws and a
"beast" like face with a dark brown, barklike skin.  They wear a
sort of plate armor as part of their ceremonial garb.  If they are
called, as may be, Rigellians, they may be related to the large 7'
tall race of warriors from Rigel. (ST:TMP)
 
?????
    Tall insect/stony faced humanoid with scaly forehead.  May be
called Megarite. (ST:TMP)
 
?????
    This race is roughly human shaped, and human arms peak out
from thier robes, but they posess very large hairless, skull-like
faces and craniums.  Thier skin is a pale yellow-green color.  The
may be called Aamazarites. (ST:TMP)
 
?????
    Humanoids with respirator masks, large heads and robes.  May
be called Xelatians. (ST:TVH)
 
?????
    Tall Humanoids with bulging foreheads and lon rearward sloping
craniums.  They have large, rearward sloping pointed ears.  May be
called Arkenites. (ST:TVH)
 
?????
    Reptiloids with splotchy, scaley skin.  May be called Ariolo.
(ST:TVH)
 
?????
    Humanoids with dark skin with white hair and white markings on
their faces. May be called Efrosians. (ST:TVH)
 
?????
    White, vaguely walrus shaped beings with hair along the sides
of their "painted doll" faces.  May be called Arcadians (ST:TVH)
 
?????
    Reptile-like beings with thin necks, small heads, and a long snout.
May be called Bzzit Khaht. (ST:TVH)
 
?????
    Large reptile like humanoids with dinosaurian heads.  They
have to tall ridges over the eyes running to the back of the head.
May be called Kasheeta. (ST:TVH)
 
?????
    Gigantic humanoids, silver skinned, whose heads have horny growths
running from their temples to their chins. (ST:TUC)
 
?????
    Large horned-toad humanoid, scaly, with horny growths around head,
and its genetalia in the region of its knees. (ST:TUC)
 
?????
    7' tall simina with an orange pelt. (ST:TUC)
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                               THE PEOPLE
 
 
     Presented below are two sets of stats for the people of Star Trek:
The Next Generation because of the various interpretations. Choose the
one that seems the most appropriate.
 
 
         Strength Constitution Dexterity Intelligence Wisdom Charisma
Picard      14         15         15         17        18      17
Riker       15         17         16         16        14      17
Data        23         --         25         25        --      14
Worf        18/00      18         14         14        10      10
Geordi      13         14         15         17        13      13
Troy        10         11         13         13        17      17
Beverly     10         12         13         16        13      16
Wesley      12         14         15         18        19      12
 
 
         Strength Constitution Dexterity Intelligence Wisdom Charisma
Picard      12         15         14         16        17      16
Riker       13         14         12         14        12      14
Data        25         --         25         25        --      10
Worf        18/00      16         14         12        10      12
Geordi      12         14         15         14        10      11
Troy        09         13         14         14        13      15
Beverly     10         12         13         15        13      15
Wesley      12         14         14         18        12      13
 
 
     Presented below are two sets of stats for the people of Star Trek
because of the various interpretations. Choose the one that seems the
most appropriate.
 
 
         Strength Constitution Dexterity Intelligence Wisdom Charisma
Kirk        12         14         14         15        12      17
Spock       17         15         13         18        20      11
McCoy       10         10         14         15        13      15
Scott       11         10         12         16        14      11
Uhura       10         11         16         16        15      15
Checkov     12         11         12         15        12      15
Sulu        12         11         16         15        15      14
Chapel      11         10         13         12        11      13
 
 
         Strength Constitution Dexterity Intelligence Wisdom Charisma
Kirk        14         14         16         16        12      18
Spock       19         16         15         20        20      15
McCoy       11         11         16         15        13      16
Scott       12         12         13         16        14      12
Uhura       11         12         16         15        15      16
Checkov     13         12         14         14        12      13
Sulu        13         13         16         16        15      15
Chapel       9         10         14         14        11      14
 
 
     Presented below is a set of stats for the people of Star Trek:
Deep Space Nine.
 
 
         Strength Constitution Dexterity Intelligence Wisdom Charisma
Sisko       13         14         12         15        15      15
Kira        14         15         13         14        10      14
Dax         10         15         13         19        19      14
Odo          *          *          *         15        15       9
M. O'Brien  15         14         16         15        14      12
K. O'Brien   9         14         13         15        12      15
Quark       12         17         17         13        12      10
Bashir      12         12         14         16        11      14
 
         * Odo's physical characteristics change with the form he's in.
 
 
                         A Look at Spock's PSI
 
PSP:  111
 
2 Disciplines: Telepathy                     Clairsentience
3 Sciencs:     Mindlink                      Sens to Psi Impressions
               Probe
10 Devotions:  Contact                       ESP
               False sensory input           Mind Bar
               Post Hypnotic Suggestion      Send Thoughts
               Radial Navigation
 3 Defenses:   Intellect Fortress            Mental Barrier
               Mind Blank
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                       A FEW WEAPONS OF STAR TREK
 
 
----------
Phaser
----------
 
     There are two types of phasers: Phaser I and Phaser II. Phaser I
does not have a handle and can fit easily in the palm of the hand. The
hydrogen energy cell in a Phaser I holds 50 charges. Phaser II is
larger and has a handle. The two hydrogen energy cells in a Phaser II
holds a total of 100 charges.
 
     Type             Range        Charges
     Phaser I        5/10/15          50          Range is given in
     Phaser II      10/20/30         100          tens of yards.
 
 
     A phaser is different than other weapons in that it has a setting
controls that allows various forms of damage.
 
 
SPREAD:
 
Normal - The wielder makes a normal "to hit" roll.
 
Wide - The wielder doesn't make a normal "to hit" roll. Instead, the
target makes a saving throw vs. paralyzation to avoid being hit. This
saving throw is made at a bonus of +2 if the weapon is used at medium
range, or +5 if the target is at long range.
 
 
SETTING:
 
     The number following the setting is the number of charges that
will be drained from the battery per hit. Wide-spread attacks will
drain twice the number of charges per person affected. The setting are
as followed:
 
Stun (1) - Target must make a successful saving throw vs. wands or be
rendered rigidly immobile for 5d4 rounds. A save indicates that the
stun didn't affect the character this time. The ray from this setting
is blue.
 
1 (2) - Target suffer 1d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage. The ray color from settings 1 through 10 are various shades of
red (1 being light red, and 10 being dark red).
 
2 (3) - Target suffer 2d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
3 (4) - Target suffer 3d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
4 (5) - Target suffer 4d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
5 (6) - Target suffer 5d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
6 (7) - Target suffer 6d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
7 (8) - Target suffer 7d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
8 (9) - Target suffer 8d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
9 (10) - Target suffer 9d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
10 (12) - Target must save vs. death magic or die.
 
Maximum (14) - This setting causes matter to vanish. It affects even
matter (or energy) of a magical nature. Disintegration is
instantaneous, and its effects are permanent. Anything within the 10' X
10' X 10' cube is obliterated. A thin, green ray (no wide-spread
attack) causes physical material affected to glow and vanish leaving no
trace.
 
Overload (all) - This setting causes the phaser to build up energy that
surpasses safety parameters until it explodes destroying the phaser.
Phaser I has a blast radius of 25 yards and does 5d10 points of damage
to living things in the blast radius. Phaser II has a blast radius of
50 yards and does 5d20 points of damage to living things in the blast
radius.
 
 
----------
Phaser TNG
----------
 
     Type             Range        Charges        Settings
     Type Ic         5/10/15          50            1-3
     Type I          5/10/15          50            1-8
     Type II        10/20/30         150            1-16
     Type III       20/40/80         225            1-16
 
 
Range is given in  tens of yards. Type Ic is a civilian model. Type III
is a rifle.
 
A phaser is different than other weapons in that it has a setting
controls that allows various forms of damage. Also, the weapon has an
automatic timer.
 
 
SPREAD:
 
Normal - The wielder makes a normal "to hit" roll.
 
Wide - The wielder doesn't make a normal "to hit" roll. Instead, the
target makes a saving throw vs. paralyzation to avoid being hit. This
saving throw is made at a bonus of +2 if the weapon is used at medium
range, or +5 if the target is at long range.
 
 
SETTING:
 
     The number following the setting is the number of charges that
will be drained from the battery per hit. Wide-spread attacks will
drain twice the number of charges per person affected. Each setting has
a unique sound. The setting are as followed:
 
Light Stun (1) - Target must make a successful saving throw vs. wands
or be rendered rigidly immobile for 1d6+4 rounds. A save indicates that
the stun didn't affect the character this time. The ray from this
setting is blue.
 
Medium Stun (2) - Target must make a successful saving throw vs. wands.
Success indicates that the target is rendered rigidly immobile for
3d6+2 rounds. Failure indicates that the target is rendered rigidly
immobile for 1d6+2 rounds. The ray from this setting is blue.
 
Heavy Stun (3) - Target must make a successful saving throw vs. wands.
Success indicates that the target is rendered rigidly immobile for
3d10+10 rounds. Failure indicates that the target is rendered rigidly
immobile for 3d6+2 rounds. The ray from this setting is blue.
 
1 (4) - Target suffer 1d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage. The ray color from settings 1 through 10 are various shades of
red (1 being light red, and 10 being dark red).
 
2 (5) - Target suffer 2d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
3 (6) - Target suffer 3d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
4 (7) - Target suffer 4d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
5 (8) - Target suffer 5d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
6 (9) - Target suffer 6d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
7 (10) - Target suffer 7d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
8 (11) - Target suffer 8d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
9 (12) - Target suffer 9d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
10 (13) - Target suffer 9d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
11 (14) - Target must save vs. death magic or die.
 
12 (15) - Target instantly dies.
 
Maximum (16) - This setting causes matter to vanish. It affects even
matter (or energy) of a magical nature. Disintegration is
instantaneous, and its effects are permanent. Anything within the 10' X
10' X 10' cube is obliterated. A thin, green ray (no wide-spread
attack) causes physical material affected to glow and vanish leaving no
trace.
 
Overload (all) - This setting causes the phaser to build up energy that
surpasses safety parameters until it explodes destroying the phaser.
Type Ic has a blast radius of 25 yards and does 5d10 points of damage
to living things in the blast radius. Type I has a blast radius of 50
yards and does 5d20 points of damage to living things in the blast
radius. Type II has a blast radius of 100 yards and does 10d20 points
of damage to living things in the blast radius. Type III has a blast
radius of 150 yards and does 20d20 points of damage to living things in
the blast radius.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                            ADVENTURE STORY
 
 
     Below is a story of an adventure on the Enterprise from a DM who
ran it. He says it went awesome! The players (or most of them) had a
great time role-playing not knowing a thing about Star Trek. They also
had a great time finding out some of the specifics of the Enterprise
and the crew. It is really fantastic and imaginative and should inspire
other DMs to create some adventurers in the Star Trek setting.
 
 
     Mist, the Old Red Dragon, used her last breath on Moander, the
Darkbringer. The party, however, noticed that the air was filled with
the smell of marsh gas and had determined that the fire from the
dragon's breath would ignite the area, making it very uncomfortable for
the adventurers. Courtney, the Wizard Most Wild, pulled out a scroll,
uttered a few words, and teleported away, attempting to take the party
with him. Unfortunately, he was not quite quick enough to avoid the
magical shock-wave from the deity's explosion -- the spell went awry.
He did succeed, however, in taking the party with him -- to the first
plane of Hades -- except the party's thief, Fingers Bubblefoot, who
wasn't quite able to reach the desperate mage in time. Fingers was
blown clear away to the Astral Plane, where he wandered for some time.
Courtney, seeing the lack in the party, pulled out his most valuable
possession--a ring of three wishes. "I wish the party was back
together", he intoned, not caring about the side effects of such a
powerful item. There was a FLASH, and then a curious tingling
sensation. When their vision cleared, they found themselves in a 20x40
room, standing on a platform. In front of them were two men, one of
which tapped a curious object on his left chest, and said to the air,"
Captain, you had better come down here..." Seeing the weapons the party
possessed, one man drew a small, oddly shaped box and pointed it at the
party. "Drop you weapons", he commanded. Bashar Teg, the barbarian of
the group, refused and attempted to attack the man holding the box. He
only succeeded, however, in getting blasted into unconsciousness. The
other members of the group were more amenable, and surrendered
peacefully.
     The brig consisted of 4 rooms, 3 of which branched out from the
fourth. Fingers, Bashar (Bash), and Alex (former cleric, now paladin)
were put into one of the cells, and locked in by a forcefield. The
others (Courtney, and the Mage/cleric Karalina) were taken to sickbay
to tend to their wounds (Karalina was badly injured in the fight with
Moander, and was even possessed by the Darkbringer for a time).
     Unknown to the party, someone had followed the party through space
and time. The evil mage, Glyssaxx, had learned of the party's fate and
had teleported onto the Enterprise. Using his spells, he learned of the
mighty "Phaser" and even where several were kept. After killing the
guard, and opening the Armory, he proceeded to steal several phasers.
An alert security guard, however, noticed the breach in the doors and
investigated, getting hit by several magical missiles before being able
to summon aid.
     Glyssaxx, seeing himself outnumbered, ran down the hall to find a
place secure enough to cast his teleport spell. Several security
forcefields were already in place, however, but were no match for a few
disintegrate spells. The guards, too, were only a nuisance --fireballs
worked nicely in disposing of them.  He didn't count on the
Enterprise's transporter, for when the first guard saw his comrades
fall, he told the computer to beam the mage out into open space. Thus
ended the life of Glyssaxx.
     Meanwhile, the party was getting used to the comforts of the
Enterprise. Several experiments with the food dispensers in the cells
yielded amusing results -- horse steaks, halfling sized cakes, and the
art of instantaneous cooking.... The amusement stopped, however, when
Captain Picard entered and accused the party of conspiring with
Glyssaxx. The party denied it. After a lengthy consideration, Picard
decided to let the party out (they had already made several escape
attempts, but of no avail).
     Suddenly, an alert sounded. Accompanying by a guard, the party ran
to investigate. Turning a corner, they saw a pale skinned humanoid
dressed in what looked like leather. He was shooting a blue beam into a
panel. The lights up and down the hallway were blinking off and on, and
general mayhem was being created. The guard fired his phaser, but to no
affect. The party decided to attack, and was able to defeat the
creature (Borg), sustaining only minor damage in the process. The Borg,
however, were not so easily defeated, as more and more started
appearing all over the Enterprise. Also, the ship was being bombarded,
frequently throwing everyone to the deck.
     The battle ensued for control of the Enterprise, and during a
scuffle in Main Engineering, an iron quarterstaff (through which the
mage Courtney casts shocking grasp) was embedded into the dilithium
warp chamber. Fearing an explosion, the party ducked for cover, only to
discover that instead of exploding, the staff was acting as a conduit
for raw warp energy.
     Meanwhile, other members of the party were teaming up with
Enterprise crew members for a rescue mission to retrieve Picard from
the Borg ship, who had been captured during a battle.
     Through some computer damage, the self destruct mechanism for the
ship had been activated, giving the party and crew about 10 minutes to
come up with a solution to this massive dilemma. through teamwork, they
determined that the warp energy embedded into the quarterstaff could be
used to amplify spell energy. This was a dangerous risk to the
spellcasters, as it could have disastrous rebounding effects.
Courtney, fishing out a scroll, deemed it plausible to cast a prismatic
sphere, and hope the energy would be sufficiently amplified to surround
the ship, thus protecting it and also providing a means of destroying
the Borg ship.  He proceeded to cast...
     Aboard the Borg ship, the rescue party has succeeded in
recapturing Picard and transporting back to the Enterprise. Uttering
the final words of the spell, Courtney directed it into the quarter
staff. Blinding light filled every window of the ship as the sphere
took form. Because of the unique nature of the warp drive, it also
moved with the ship. On impulse drive, the Enterprise rammed the Borg
ship.
     A blinding flash of light, and the Borg were gone... taking the
Enterprise with them via tractor beam. The astral plane looked rather
strange to the crew of the Enterprise, but with a plane shift spell,
Karalina managed to free the Enterprise from the Borg while leaving
them to wander the Astral plane forever....
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                     "FIFTY WAYS TO KILL AN ENSIGN"
 
 
The problem is something 'bout your clothes, she said to me
The red shirt and the stripeless sleeves yell, "I'm Security!"
And when you get down planet-side with Kirk, you'll get to see
There must be fifty ways to kill an ensign
 
He takes a landing party down to find what's going on
A couple of the bridge crew, and some extras come along
And then before you know it - the `expendables' are gone
There must be fifty ways to kill an ensign
Fifty ways to kill an ensign
 
   Just step on a rock, Jock
   Get thorns from some plants, Lance
   A Horta can spray, Ray
   Just listen to me
   Clouds drink up your blood, Bud
   Computers can kill, Bill
   You could lose all your salt, Walt
   Kirk gets away free...
 
She said it grieves me so to see you with such nerves
Not ev'ryone who goes with Kirk will suffer from this curse
But then of course, you must recall - they sometimes suffer worse
There must be fifty ways to kill an ensign
 
Just tell him, "I'm not stupid and I'm not expendable
I'm not going!" Tell him that he's a Denebian slime devil
And he's overbearing, swaggering, and dictatorial
He'll find a new way to kill an ensign
Fifty-one ways to kill an ensign
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                             SPECIAL THANKS
 
Joel Polowin A.K.A. Bunsen Honeydew for his song "Fifty Ways To Kill An
Ensign".
 
Marc Carlson (IMC@VAX2.UTULSA.EDU) the co-creator who wrote all the
creatures and a lot of the weaponry.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 

