     Archon Ultra is a long awaited title to a lot of computer gaming old
     timers. The new version features some better innovations of Archon II
     while sticking to the general game play of Archon I. While featuring
     modem play and other options like map auto-zooming and true flight,
     this is sure to better than the originals. The game is fairly simple
     to grasp as far as the rules are concerned but many little nuances
     exist making this a game that is continuously challenging and
     replayable. Add a second player preferably with 2 Gravis game pads and
     this game takes on a whole new dimension.
     
                                                       Lorus
     
     GENERAL RULES
     
        The game consists of the sides of Light and Dark which are
     competing for in the final battle of domination. The game board is
     near identical to a chess board but the dimensions are 9x9 instead of
     8x8 and the pieces are set up and move differently than in chess as
     well as being completely unique characters as well. Certain squares on
     the game board continuously change color from light to dark and then
     back from dark to light. This cycle is a very important fundamental
     part of the game. If you control the side of light, your pieces are
     stronger on white squares whereas the dark side playing pieces are
     stronger on the black squares. The increase in strength manifests
     itself as more hit points (represented by a bar during battle) and
     stronger offensive/defensive power. Also on the board are 5 stars
     which represent "Power Points". These points will heal pieces a little
     bit each turn that the piece remains on the power point. Most spells
     will not work when cast at a power point or a piece on a power point.
     Players take turns moving their pieces in a strategic manner. When two
     pieces of opposing sides end up on the same square, a battle ensues.
     Unlike Chess, the battle is not predetermined, this is true arcade
     combat resolution. Anyone can actually win the battle. Just because
     your piece "takes" another piece on the board does not mean you
     actually take the piece. You must win the battle first. Remember that
     all damage is permanent to a piece unless it is healed. The first side
     to either totally destroy all opposing pieces OR control all five
     power points by placing pieces on them, wins the game.
     
     MOVEMENT
     
        Moving a piece in Archon Ultra is very simple. Position the cursor
     over the piece you wish to move and then push button 1 on the joystick
     (or it's keyboard equivalent) and then position the cursor where you
     wish to move to and then push button 1 again to move the piece. If a
     piece from the opposing side occupies the destination of movement,
     then combat will ensue.
     
        Ground - Ground movement means that a piece cannot move through
     another and must have a clear path to advance.
     
        Fly - Flying means a piece can fly over another piece and may
     advance anywhere within it's movement radius.
     
        Teleport - This is the same as fly but it's restricted to the
     Wizard and the Sorcerer.
     
     SPELLS
     
        To cast a spell, position the cursor over the Wizard or the
     Sorcerer. Then push button 1 and then push button 1 again. This will
     bring up the spell menu that can be cycled through by pushing up and
     down on the joystick or using the appropriate up and down keys on the
     keyboard. Some spells can only be used one time per game so use them
     wisely. Casting a spell takes the place of moving a piece. In other
     words, by casting a spell, you are making the choice not to move a
     piece that turn. A full explanation of each spell is presented below:
     
        Teleport - This allows you to teleport any piece on the board to
     any other place on the board besides power points. Most spells don not
     work on power points and this is one of those spells. You can only use
     this spell once per game.
     
        Heal - Since damage is remembered and tracked between battles,
     healing a piece is sometimes a wise move. Just activate the spell and
     then choose which piece you wish to heal and push button 1.
     
        Shift Time - This spell will allow the reversal of the color cycle
     of the board squares. This is a good spell to cast when you are
     needing to prevent the board squares from changing to your opponents
     color. For example, you cast imprison on a piece, the square that
     piece is on is about to change to the color of it's side (Black or
     White) which would release the piece from it's prison. By casting
     Shift Time, you would reverse the cycle of color shifting so that the
     piece would be imprisoned up to twice as long as normal.
     
        Exchange - This spell is similar to teleport excepts that you
     exchange squares with another piece. Again this is a spell that does
     not work on Power Points. You can only use this spell once per game.
     
        Revive - This allows a side to resurrect a "dead" piece. This spell
     only works one time per game so use it wisely.
     
        Imprison - This spell will imprison the target piece in a force
     field until the color cycle of the board matches the color of the
     pieces side at which point the piece is released. You can only use
     this spell once per game.
     
        Summon Elemental - This is also a one time use spell. When cast, a
     elemental is randomly selected from the four Elemental types of Fire,
     Earth, Air, or Water. After you summon the Elemental, you then can
     choose any enemy occupied square on the board except one that contains
     a Power Point. The Elemental will die at the end of the following
     combat weather or not it is killed in the battle which is why all
     Elementals have self destruct as their secondary power which allows a
     last ditch attempt to inflict damage when close to death. You can only
     use this spell once per game.
     
        Cease Conjuring - This allows the player to cancel spell casting a
     revert to move mode.
     
     COMBAT

        Combat is resolved in a real-time arcade manner. There is only one
     objective here, "kill or be killed". Also note that there are various
     obstacles on the battle screen. Some of these can be affected by 
     various powers like trees being burned by fire. Also on the battlefield 
     are various pitfalls such as lava and swamps. These areas will inflict 
     damage most who enter. These areas can also be used strategically 
     by forcing opponents into them. Individual powers for each playing piece
     are described in detail under the individual descriptions of each piece.
     Also if the two combatants get to far away from each other and basically
     moving of the edges of the screen, the map fill flip to a distant "sky"
     view to allow both opponents to be seen at the same time on the screen.

     FORCES OF LIGHT
     
        WIZARD - This is the "King" for the forces of Light and takes the
     kings chess position. This General of Light also can cast spells
     besides the general functions of moving and fighting. Losing this
     piece will greatly hamper your chances of winning. Unlike in chess, if
     this piece is killed then you don't lose the game, you just suffer
     it's loss. See the SPELLS section to learn how to cast spells and what
     their effects are. You only have 1 Wizard so guard him well.
     
     Movement - The Wizard can teleport on the board up to 3 spaces in any
     direction on the game board..
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - Activates a fireball when used in conjunction with a
     direction on the joystick or keyboard. Hold down button 1 when you
     attack with the fireball and it will grow in size but unfortunately
     decrease in attack strength.
     Button 2 - Activates the teleport feature. You can instantly move
     about 4-5 inches in the direction pushed on the joystick or keyboard.
     Good for getting close to attack or avoiding an enemies assault.
     
     ARCHER - This piece is placed in front of the position a rook would be
     in chess along the pawn row.
     Archers attack with arrows which fly extremely fast towards their
     target. There are 2 Archers.
     
     Movement - The Archer moves on the ground up to 3 spaces
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - Fires a silver arrow. The arrow flies straight in the
     direction the joystick is pressed.
     Button 2 - Fires a gold arrow which is more accurate and deadly in the
     direction indicated by the joystick.
     
     KNIGHT - The Knight is the true "pawn" in this game. The Knight fights
     at close range in melee style and is usually used to weaken stronger
     opponents and draw enemy pieces into attacks by stronger pieces. The
     Knights are positioned in the standard chess pawn row. There are a
     total of 7 Knights.
     
     Movement - The Knight moves on the ground up to 3 spaces.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This will make the Knight strike with his sword in the
     direction the joystick is pressed.
     Button 2 - This raises the Knight's shield for defense in the
     direction the joystick is pressed.
     
     VALKYRIE - The Valkyrie is a spear throwing female warrior of
     considerable strength. It is positioned in the "rook" position on the
     game board. There are 2 Valkyries.
     
     Movement - The Valkyrie moves on the ground up to 3 spaces.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This will cause the valkyrie to throw a spear in the
     direction the joystick is pressed. By holding down the button while
     the spear is in flight, you can increase the range the spear is
     thrown. The downside of this unlimited range is that you must remain
     stationary for the length of time you hold button 1 down. This will
     allow the player time to position and counter attack.
     Button 2 - By pressing button 2 and then a direction on the joystick,
     you can cast a field of lightning. The lightning will appear 1-2
     inches from the Valkyrie in the direction indicated on the joystick.
     Attempt to get near your opponent when using this attack.
     
     GOLEM - The golem is a brawny character. It is positioned the chess
     position the Knight would normally be located. There are 2 Golems.
     
     Movement - The Golem moves along the ground up to 3 squares.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This will make the Golem throw a boulder in the direction
     indicated by the joystick. If you hold button 1 down, the boulder will
     continue to fly until you let off of the button. When you release
     button 1, the boulder will fragment increasing your chance to hit an
     opponent but will not do as much damage as an unfragmented boulder on
     a direct hit.
     Button 2 - This will make the Golem solidify or de-animate. This is
     used to defend against an attack by an enemy piece. The longer the
     button is healed the longer you will be "solid".
     
     UNICORN - The unicorn is a fast piece in combat. It is positioned in
     the standard chess "Bishop's" square. There are 2 Unicorns.
     
     Movement - The Unicorn moves on the ground up to 4 squares.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This will make the Unicorn fire magic bolts from the single
     horn on it's head. This is a rapid fire attack. If you hold button 1
     down, you will get a longer "stream" of magic bolts.
     Button 2 - This will cause the Unicorn to '"leap" in the direction
     indicated by the joystick. This is a close range attack and should be
     used with caution.
     
     GENIE - The Genie is literally the left hand man of the Wizard being
     positioned on the left hand side of the Wizard. Please note there is
     only 1 Genie in the game.
     
     Movement - The Genie can fly up to 4 squares.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This will fire a power orb in the direction indicated by
     the joystick.
     Button 2 - This is a defensive power which causes the Genie to
     "shrink". This makes the Genie hared to hit. You can stay shrunk as
     long as you hold down the button. You may move while shrunk by moving
     the joystick.
     
     PHEONIX - This is literally the Wizard's right hand man being
     positioned on the Wizard's right. Please note that there is only 1
     Pheonix in the game. The Pheonix and the Shapeshifter are the farthest
     reaching pieces on the game board. Not only does the Pheonix fly on
     the game board, but it also literally flies in combat!
     
     Movement - The Pheonix can fly up to 5 spaces!
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This will cause the Pheonix to "dive" in the direction
     indicated on the joystick and then explode in a burst of flames. An
     opponent must be in the fire to be damaged.
     Button 2 - This will eject a "homing feather" from the Pheonix. This
     feather will chase down an opponent and inflict minimal damage.
     
     FORCES OF DARKNESS
     
     SORCERESS - This is the "King" of the Dark Forces. The Sorceress has
     all the powers and abilities of the Wizard on the game board but has
     unique combat abilities. Again, if you lose this piece all is not
     lost, you can still win the game. Note there is only 1 Sorceress in
     the game.
     
     Movement - The Sorceress teleports up to 3 squares.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This will cause the Sorceress to fire a "stream" of
     lightning in the direction indicated on the joystick. The longer
     button 1 is held, the longer the stream of lightning.
     Button 2 - This causes the Sorceress to teleport 8-12 inches in the
     direction indicated by the joystick. Note that this is substantially
     farther than the Wizard.
     
     MANTICORE - Located on the pawn row in front of the rooks position or
     in front of the Banshee. Note there are 2 Manticores.
     
     Movement - The Manticore moves along the ground 3 squares.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - By pressing button 1 and indicating a direction on the
     joystick, the Manticore will fire it's tail spikes.
     Button 2 - By indicating a direction on the joystick and pressing
     button 2, the Manticore will release a buffeting "roar". This roar
     will displace the opponent as well as causing damage. This attack is
     used at close range.
     
     GOBLIN - The Goblins are the true pawns of the Dark Forces. They are
     positioned in the pawn row of the Dark side. There are 7 Goblins.
     
     Movement - The Goblins move along the ground up to 3 squares.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This will swing a club in the direction the joystick is
     pressed. You must be positioned extremely close to the enemy to score
     a hit.
     Button 2 - This will cause the Goblin to "duck" under an opponents
     attack.
     
     BANSHEE - The Banshee is positioned in the standard chess rook
     position. There are 2 Banshees.
     
     Movement - The Banshee can fly up to 3 squares.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - The Banshees main attack is the life draining aura attack.
     This attack must be initiated at extremely close range. The opponent
     must be caught in the concentric rings emanating from the Banshee.
     Button 2 - This will cause a "skull" to roll in the direction
     indicated by the joystick. The skull will roll towards an opponent and
     "attach" itself to the enemy. The enemy is now hindered and slowed.
     More skulls increase this effect.
     
     TROLL - Trolls are the brawny scrappers of the Dark Side. They are
     positioned similar to the "Knights" position in chess. There are 2
     Trolls.
     
     Movement - The Trolls move up to 3 squares along the ground.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This commands the Troll to throw a boulder in the direction
     indicated by the joystick. The boulder attack by the troll does not
     have the fragmenting feature that the Golem's boulder attack does but
     it does considerably more damage on a direct hit.
     Button 2 - This is an evasive tactic which makes the Troll jump. Use
     this to defend against an attack.
     
     BASILISK - The Basilisk is a serpentine piece. It is positioned
     similar to a Bishop in Chess. There are 2 Basilisks.
     
     Movement - The Basilisk moves along the ground up to 3 squares.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This causes the Basilisk to use it's spitting attack. The
     Basilisk will spit in the direction indicated by the joystick.
     Button 2 - This will cause the Basilisk to breathe a petrifying cloud
     that causes damage to the opponent but does not "freeze" the enemy.
     The farther away the cloud gets, the larger it grows and the weaker
     it's potency.
     
     SHAPESHIFTER - The Shapeshifter is the right hand man of the Sorceress
     being positioned on the right hand side of the Sorceress. The
     Shapeshifter is a Doppleganger meaning it immediately assumes the form
     of the opponent in combat.
     A good strategy to take this piece out is to fight it with the piece
     you are best at using and that fight well against each other.
     
     Movement - The Shapeshifter can fly up to 5 squares!
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This is identical to the opponents attack.
     Button 2 - This is identical to the opponents attack.
     
     DRAGON - This is literally the Sorceress' left hand man being
     positioned on the left hand side of the Sorceress. There is only 1
     Dragon. The Dragon not only flies on the game board but it literally
     flies in combat!
     
     Movement - The Dragon flies up to 4 squares!
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This will fire a stream of fire in the direction indicated
     by the joystick. The longer button 1 is held, the longer the stream of
     fire will be.
     Button 2 - This will cause the Dragon to emit a poison cloud in the
     direction the joystick is pressed. This is very similar to the
     petrifying breath from the Basilisk but causes more damage and has
     slightly better range.
     
     ELEMENTALS - ALL Elementals move instantly to a square of a chosen
     opponent and will fight that opponent. It will then die when combat is
     resolved weather it wins or loses that combat. Note only 1 Elemental
     can be summoned per game and that Elemental is randomly selected from
     the four elemental plains of FIRE, WATER, AIR, and EARTH.
     
     FIRE - Summoned from the elemental plane of fire.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This will inflame the Elemental and allow it to quickly
     chase an opponent and inflict damage when the enemy is in very close
     range (basically on top of the enemy). The longer the button is held
     the longer the attack mode lasts.
     Button 2 - This causes the Fire Elemental to self destruct in one
     final fury. Any enemy in the damage radius will be affected.
     
     WATER - Summoned from the elemental plane of water.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This will the Water Elemental to chase down an opponent
     inflicting water damage. The longer the button is held, the longer the
     attack mode lasts.
     Button 2 - This is a final self destructive attack on an opponent. You
     must be very near the enemy to inflict damage.
     
     AIR - Summoned from the elemental plane of air.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This allows the Air Elemental to chase down an enemy and
     inflict buffeting damage. The longer the button is held, the longer
     the attack mode lasts.
     Button 2 - This is a final self destruct which causes massive damage
     to the enemy if very near.
     
     EARTH - Summoned from the elemental plane of earth.
     
     Combat
     
     Button 1 - This allows the Earth Elemental to roll into a ball and
     chase down the enemy. The longer the button is held, the longer the
     attack mode lasts.
     Button 2 - This is a last ditch attack that destroys the Earth
     Elemental after it's initiation. This attack inflicts massive damage
     to an enemy if the enemy is very close.
     
     --------------------------------------------------------------------
     KEY      COMMAND
     --------------------------------------------------------------------
     
     PLAYER 1
     
     E      - UP
     F      - RIGHT
     D      - DOWN
     S      - LEFT
     SPACE  - Keyboard equivalent to Button 1
     B      - Keyboard equivalent to Button 2
     
     PLAYER 2
     
     ARROWS - UP, RIGHT, DOWN, LEFT. (Either on the cursor arrows or the
              number pad.)
     0      - Equivalent to Button 1 (Must use "0" on number keypad).)
     ./DEL  - Equivalent to Button 2 (Must use ./DEL on number keypad)
     
     MISC
     
     ESC    - Bring up the quit game option (use F9 to exit game).
     ALT    - Brings up the menu bar selections (can also use Button 2)
     SPACE  - Make a menu selection (can also use button 1)
     
     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

     --------------|- This would be a GREAT game to buy! -|----------------


           GREETS: TRC, MARAUDER, BUBBLE MAN, DREAM WEAVER,
                   THE CHAIRMAN, BLACK LIGHT, DARK LIGHT, CHESS KiNG,
                   CADMASTER, SPOOGE, WHITE VIPER, DoNG SiLVER,
                   JACKAL, and everyone else I forgot.


     GROUP GREETS: RaZoR's FiNeST, TDT, THG, PTG, TRSI


                                                DOCS BY,
                                               -=LORUS=-

