                Command Adventures: Starship Version 1.0
                      Technical Reference Guide

Minimum Hardware Requirements
* '386SX-33 IBM PC or 100% compatible
* 2 Megabytes of RAM, with 575K free low RAM
* Hard drive with 26 Megabytes free space
* VGA graphics
* Microsoft or 100% compatible mouse

Installing Starship on your Hard Drive
--------------------------------------
Before you attempt to install Starship, you should ensure that your system
meets the minimum requirements listed above.

To install Starship onto your harddrive, place the Starship Disk 1 in any
floppy drive and log onto that drive. You will then type: install [floppy
drive] [destination drive and directory]. For example, if you placed the disk
in drive A: you would type:
a: [ENTER]
install a: c:\starship [ENTER]

Then, follow the on-screen directions for completing the hard disk installation.
The installation will "flash" the appropriate number of the required disk. When
prompted for the next disk, insert the correct disk and press any key to
continue. The installtion requires 26 Megabytes of free hard disk space to
install properly.
NOTE: This installation will last approximately 20 to 30 minutes, depending upon
your computer system.

Sound Configuration
-------------------
After the hard disk installtion is completed, the sound configuration screen
will appear, enabling you to select the sound support which is best suited to
your system. Select items 1 and 2 from the configuration menu to select the
sound support option of your choice. Choose item 3 from the menu when you are
done. The next time your play Starship, the program will default to your sound
configuration selection.
NOTE: If you wish to modify your sound configuration after the initial install,
simply run CONFIG.EXE from the Starship directory:

config [ENTER]

If your select a sound support option other than 1) None, 2)PC Speaker or
3)Adlib, you will need to enter additional information regarding the IRQ, Base
address, and the DMA channel settings for your sound card. On many sound cards,
the default IRQ setting is 7, the default Base address is 220, and the default
DMA channel is 1. Enter the settings of your choice, and then choose item 3 from
the configuration menu when you are done.

If you are not sure which IRQ, Base address and DMA channel settings are right
for your sound card, please check the instructions that came with your sound
card for the correct settings.
NOTE: Many sound cards, including Sound Blaster Pro, use IRQ 5 as the default
Interrupt setting.

Starting the Game
-----------------
To start Starship once it is installed to your hard drive, select the drive
partition which contains the Starship subdirectory (Example C:); then type the
following:

cd\starship [ENTER]
starship [ENTER]

Once the program is loaded, you may press any key to exit the opening animation
sequence and begin playing the game.

Not Enough Low DOS Memory?
--------------------------
If you do not have 580,000 bytes (575K) of low DOS memory available when you
launch Starship, the program will display the following message:

At least 580,000 bytes of free RAM are required to run STARSHIP.

You will then be returned to the DOS prompt. If this message appears, you should
use the MAKEDISK.BAT utility included with Starship to create a "boot disk"
which will boot up your system but will bypass "CPU-hogging" TSR's that are part
of your hard-drive's autoexecution sequence.

The MAKEDISK.BAT utility is located in the root directory of the Starship
subdirectory on your hard drive. To create a boot disk, simply put a blank
formatted or unformatted floppy in disk A:. Make sure you are in the Starship
subdirectory on you hard drive, and type: makedisk followed by your memory
manager's name, or type normal if you are not using QEMM386 or 386MAX.

EXAMPLES:
makedisk normal - Makes a boot disk for use with HIMEM.SYS
makedisk qemm - Makes a boot disk with use with QEMM386.SYS
makedisk 386max - Makes a boot disk with use with 386MAX.SYS

MAKEDISK.BAT will format the floppy disk in drive A: and will copy the necessary
system information for making the disk self-bootable. When this step is com-
pleted, the message, Format another? Y/N will appear. Be sure to answer N for
No. At this point, MAKEDISK will copy the appropriate AUTOEXEC.BAT and
CONFIG.SYS files, depending upon the memory management option you have selected.

NOTE: You must edit one of the starup files on your boot disk to include a line
which loads your mouse driver, as Starship requires a mouse. Please refer to the
READ.ME file, insert Disk 1 into your floppy drive. Log onto that drive and
type:

type read.me [ENTER]

To use your new boot disk, reboot your computer with the boot disk in drive A:,
and load Starship from your hard drive.

EMM386.EXE Users
----------------
Starship does not use or require EMM386.EXE during the execution of the program.
EMM386.EXE users should use a boot disk with MAKEDISK.BAT (makedisk normal), or
should remove EMM386.EXE from their CONFIG.SYS file.
NOTE: If you must run EMM386.EXE in order to load DoubleSpace, Stacker or other
device drivers into the high memory area, use the NOEMS switch and set the
sound card selection 1 (None), in the Starship sound Config program.
ADDITIONAL NOTE: Starship will operate with a sound card and the NOEMS switch
set, but performance may be erratic, and this is not recommended.

DoubleSpace and Stacker Users
-----------------------------
Please refer to the READ.ME file on Starship Disk 1 for detailed instructions
about running Starship with DoubleSpace or Stacker.

Mediavision Pro Audio Spectrum Users
------------------------------------
If your sound card is an older version (approx. 2 years), the music portion of
Starship may not function properly. To correct this problem, you will need to
obtain an older music driver called PASFM.ADV. Please call Merit Software's
Technical Support Line for more information.

Addendum to the Starship User's Guide
-------------------------------------
Should you wish to exit Starship without returning to the main menu, you may
return to the bridge of your starship and press X. This will immediately end
the game and return you to the DOS prompt.

Troubleshooting
---------------
1. Problem: The mouse cursor "freezes" periodically during gameplay.
Solution: Please ensure that your Microsoft mouse driver is version 8.0 or
later.

2. Problem: The music and/or sound does not play or plays incorrectly.
Solution 1: Check the settings in the CONFIG.EXE program. make sure your
settings match your audio card.
Solution 2: Check to see if EMM386.EXE is installed in your CONFIG.SYS. If
present, follow the instructions for using MAKEDISK.BAT (makedisk normal) to
create a "clean" boot disk.
