 





















                          CAVEMAN UGH-LYMPICS
                                   BY
                                 AZREAL








































        LOADING THE GAME

HARD DISK USERS:  To install Caveman Ugh-Lympics on your hard disk
follow these steps.

1.  Boot your system with DOS 2.11 or greater.
2.  If you have 5.25 inch disks, insert disk # 2 into any 5.25 inch
drive.
3.  Type the letter of the drive you put the disk in followed by a
colon, then press ENTER.
4.  At the prompt, type INSTALL and press ENTER.
5.  Once the install program loads, press ENTER to begin installation,
or press the down arrow and ENTER to return to DOS.
6.  Type the letter of the floppy drive you will be copying from and
press ENTER.  Insert disk #1 into that drive.

                                 PAGE 1

7.  Type the letter of the hard disk you will be copying to and press
ENTER.
8.  Type the name of the subdirectory you want the program installed to
and press ENTER.  If you type nothing and press ENTER, the game files
will be written to a directory named \CAVEMAN.
9.  Swap disks as prompted until the program is installed.

To load the game, first boot your system with DOS 2.11 or greater.
Then type the name of your hard disk and press ENTER.  Type CD and the
name of the subdirectory you specified during installation and press
ENTER.  Now follow the steps below for floppy disk users starting with
Step 4.

FLOPPY DISK USERS:  Before you do anything else, you should make a copy
of your disk #1 with the DOS DISKCOPY command.  First boot your system
with DOS 2.11 or greater.

1.  Boot your machine with DOS.
2.  Insert your copy of the disk labeled DISK #1 into drive A or B.
    This disk must not be write protected.
3.  Type A: or B:, whichever drive you put the disk in and press ENTER.

                                 PAGE 2

4.  Type CAVEMAN and press ENTER.
5.  Once the game loads, you'll see the opening ceremonies.  If you
    want to bypass this, press SPACEBAR.
6.  When you see a cave painting of an Ugh-lympian, look for that
    painting in this manual to find his or her name.  Type the name and
    press ENTER.
7.  Another cave painting of an UGH-lympian will appear.  Again, find
    that painting in this manual.  This time, type his or her best
    event and press ENTER.
8.  Enable or disable Joystick 1.  Press 8 on the keypad to highlight
    ENABLE; press 2 to highlight DISABLE.  Press ENTER to make your
    selection.  Do the same for Joystick 2.  NOTE:  Do not enable
    joysticks that aren't connected to your computer.  If you enable a
    joystick that isn't connected, you'll have to reboot your computer.






9.  Highlight your computer type (graphics detail) by pressing either 8
    or 2 on the keypad and then press ENTER.  The default selection is
    the one the program believes you have.


To change any of your choices, press one of the function keys below.  A
message will appear to confirm you selection.  The commands are:

               F1   Detail 1 (PS/2-70, Tandy TL, 80386)
               F2   Detail 2 (PS/2-30/50, AT, Tandy TX)
               F3   Detail 3 (PS/2-20, XT)
               F4   Detail 4 (PC, TANDY SX)

OOPS!  When mistakes are chiseled in stone, they can't be erased.  IF
your detail is (PS/2-25,XT), then press F3.

If you're using you keyboard instead of joysticks, the following
diagrams show the eight keys that correspond to the eight joystick
directions for each joystick:

                                 PAGE 3


UP/LEFT     UP     UP/RIGHT         UP/LEFT       UP     UP/RIGHT
       \    |     /                        \      |     /
        7   8    9                          Q     W    E

LEFT  - 4   5    6 - RIGHT          LEFT -  A     S    D - RIGHT

        1   2    3                          Z     X    C
       /    |     \                        /      |     \
DOWN/LEFT  DOWN    DOWN/RIGHT       DOWN/LEFT    DOWN    DOWN/RIGHT

  Keyboard Joystick #1                  Keyboard Joystick #2


For joystick 1, ENTER corresponds to the joystick button.  For joystick
2, SPACEBAR corresponds to the joystick button.

If only one joystick is enabled, and another player is playing using
the keyboard, the the above diagrams are reversed (e.g. Keyboard
joystick #1 is the right diagram, and keyboard joystick #2 is the left
diagram).

When you're told to move the joystick in a certain direction, press the
key that corresponds to that direction.  When you're told to press the
joystick button, press the key that corresponds to that joystick's
button.


                           CHOOSING ATHLETES

After you load the game, you'll see NUMBER OF PLAYERS and the value 1.
Push the joystick button up to increase the number of players, pull
it back to decrease the number.  You can have up to six players.  Press
the joystick button to move on.







NOTE:  You'll make most of your selections in the game using joystick
1.

To choose your athlete, odd numbered players- 1,3,5 - will use joystick
1 and even numbered players - 2,4,6 - use joystick 2.  To pick an
athlete, click the button to get the club, move the club over the
athlete's picture, and click the button to smash his or her head.
You'll see the Neanderthal's biography and his or her strengths in
various events.

                                 PAGE 4

UGH-lympian ADVANTAGES

Except for Gronk and Vincent, each athlete has two events that he or
she is strong in.  Gronk is good at all events and Vincent isn't good
at any.  (If you're hotter than the average ape-man, try being the
talentless Vincent for a challenge.  On the other hand, if your skills
haven't evolved yet, give yourself a break and be Gronk.)

The list below show's each athlete's talents.  On the lower left corner
of the screen are your options to choose this athlete or to see
another.  Highlight the option you want and press the joystick button.
In any event, an asterisk appears next to the athlete's name if he or
she is outstanding in that event.

               VINCENT        Wimp; no advantage in anything.
               GRONK          Stud; advantage in everything.
               CRUDLA         Saber race, Dino Vault.
               GLUNK          Saber race, Clubbing.
               THAG           Mate Toss, Fire Making.
               UGHA           Dino Race, Fire Making.

CHOOSING A SPONSOR NAME

After you choose an athlete, you need to type in a sponsor name that'll
be used to record high scores.  Some of the Ugh-lympics' bigger
corporate sponsors include:  Bashwell Clubs, Nicestink Perfumes,
Bzunk's Mammoth Meat, Derk's Stone Jewelry, Smashflat Clubs, and Gerg's
Fine Rocks.  Press RETURN or ENTER after you type in a name.

                                 PAGE 5

PLAYING AGAINST THE COMPUTER

If you don't have a friend to compete against, you get a computer-
controlled oponent.  This oponent is for pacing only; your score will
always be considered the winning score, even if the computer athlete
wins.  This lets you compete for a spot on Caves of Fame.  When you
beat the computer in any event, the event ends; you don't have to wait
for the computer to finish.

                       CHOOSING THE GAME OPTIONS

After you select the contestants, you'll see your game options.
Highlight the option you want and press the joystick button.





PRACTICE - Any Ugh-lympian with a gold medal around his or her hairy
neck knows that "practice makes perfect" (this, by the way, may have
been the first recorded sports quote in history).  You can practice any
of the six events; just highlight the one you want and click the
joystick button.  You can practice the event as many times as you want.
When you see the prompt RESTART EVENT?  move the joystick up or down to
select YES or NO, and then press the joystick button.

START THE CAVEMAN UGH-LYMPICS - It's the moment your Ugh-lympian has
trained for all his or her prehistoric life.  The athletes will enter
the games and compete in all six events.  Press the joystick button if
you want to bypass the opening ceremonies.

CAVES OF FAME - Take a torch-lit stroll through these caves and you'll
see the record holders in all of the events except Clubbing.  With
diligence and training, your Ugh-lympian's mug can grace these walls
some day.  Press the joystick button to move from cave wall to cave
wall.

RESTART - Takes you back to the NUMBER OF PLAYERS screen.

                                 PAGE 6

                              KEY COMMANDS

ESC - Quits the event you're playing.  You can choose to restart or
quit the event for all players.  During the Ugh-lympics, all the
athletes will go on to the next event.  In practice mode, you'll return
to the Game Options menu.

F9 - Pauses the game anywhere.  Hit again to resume the game.

Ctrl-ESC - When you're at the Game Options screen, you can press this
to return to DOS.

Ctrl-S - Toggle the sound on or off.

                               THE EVENTS

Blorg "Midas Touch" Blorg, trainer to gold medal winners the world
over, offers this pre-game inspiration to all you Ugh-lympians: "You
not win, you not evolve."

Let the games begin.

MATE TOSS

Many a Neanderthal has gotten misty-eyed recalling the first time he
grabbed his "one and only" by the hair and tossed her against the wall.
Women have no problems excelling in this sport; said one enthusiastic
lady proponent, "Me like him go splat!"

After your athlete reaches the circle, press and hold the joystick
button and then move the joystick in a circular, counterclockwise
direction.

                                 PAGE 7





When you're at top swiveling speed (shortly after the "speed lines"
appear), release the joystick button to toss your mate.  During
practice, you can abort a toss after you've thrown your mate by
pressing the button once the throwee is in the air.  Once your mate has
landed, you'll get the distance of your toss.


Blorg:  "Start slow then faster faster.  If speed up too fast, stumble
back and forth.  Spin too long make tired and turn many colors.  Not
good for throw.  Throw up, too."

SABER RACE

The old saying "The race goes not always to the swiftest, but to those
who can avoid being eaten" was probably coined by a participant in this
event.  Your Neanderthal had better be quick on his feet, since losing
the Saber Race can bring new meaning to the phrase "agony of defeat."
Nice Kitty.

To make your athlete run, move joystick rapidly from left to right.
Click the joystick button to make your athlete leap cactus and puddles.
The top and bottom screens are connected together.

Blorg:  "Run too slow not good idea.  And not let opponent catch up.
He grab you by loincloth, toss you to kitty.  Kitty eat you, you out of
race.  Simple."

                                 PAGE 8

FIRE MAKING

The first and most important step in man's evolution towards a
civilized existence was marked by his mastery of the techniques for
building fire.  The second was when he burned himself.  Come relive
this evolutionary milestone, and see how it was in "the good ol' days,"
before cooked meat and forest fires.

Blorg:  "I tell all Ugh-lympian, fastest fire maker not just get medal.
Get more barbecue invitation.  They work more hard to win."

As any caveman worth the hair on his feet knows, the way to get a fire
started is to rub two sticks together.  To accomplish this feat,
rapidly move the joystick right and left.  As soon as you get the hang
of this, the green bar below your athlete will start to increase.

                                 PAGE 9

Eventually, the color of the bar will turn red and sparks will start to
form.  When a few sparks land on your pile of tinder, puff on  your
pile by quickly and repeatedly pulling your joystick back.  When you
see smoke, blow on the tinder by pushing the joystick up (to take a
deep breath), and then pulling the joystick back (to blow).  If your
timing is right, and your smoldering sparks will burst into flames.









                              Fire Making

                                Inhale
                                  |
                                  |
                      Rub Stick---+---Rub Stick
                                  |
                                  |
                                Exhale

                     Press button to bop opponent.


Blorg:  "Important to breathe.  Cannot blow if not breathe.  And not
blow too fast or make stars over head and hear funny tweeting.  Three
stars over head mean trouble near.  One dizzy caveman.  Blow, breathe,
blow, breathe.  Simple unless you Neanderthal."

If your opponent is getting too far ahead, you can impair his progress
by whacking his skull with your stick.  To do this, press and hold the
joystick button.  If your opponent is clever enough to do this to you,
you can duck his swing by pulling the joystick back when he's about to
hit you.

CLUBBING

The goal of this event is to either force the other player off the
clubbing platform or beat him senseless:  There are two parts to this
event:  the Intimidation Phase and the Clubbing Phase.

During the Intimidation Phase, move the joystick as fast as you can in
random directions.

                                PAGE 10

This makes your caveman flail around wildly.  If you can intimidate
your opponent, you'll have and edge when the clubbing starts.

Blorg:  "Yell.  Jump.  Look mean.  Scare opponent.  Make BASH BASH BASH
better for you."

In the Clubbing Phase, bash your opponent until you drain him of all
his strength or knock him off the platform.  Strength is displayed on
the bar graphs above each athlete.  To walk towards your opponent, push
your joystick towards him.  To retreat, push your joystick away from
him.  To duck, pull the joystick back.

Blorg's personal clubbing techniques:

KNEE BASH - To do a knee bash, pull and hold the joystick back and
click the joystick button.  Quickly bash your opponent three times in a
row to make him hop backwards in pain - and hopefully off the clubbing
platform.

Blorg say edge of cliff bad place.  Not go near.  You not light as
feather.  You fall to dark place, not blame me.






OVERHEAD SMASH - Push and hold the joystick up, then click the joystick
button.   Good when other guy try to knee bash you.  Knock him silly.

THE FACE BOP - Blorg's favorite, click the button while you're standing
right next to your opponent.  Blorg say do lots and do fast fast fast.
Flat face, good face!

Since your Ugh-lympian barely has the intelligence of the average
rodent, it's easy to fake him out.  By pressing the joystick button and
holding it, you'll point.  This causes your adversary to look in that
direction, giving you a chance to wallop him.

                                PAGE 11

Blorg:  "You get bash hard, stars dance on head.  You not can bash
back.  Me suggest you not get hit."

DINO RACE

Long considered one of the most gruelling and difficult of all the Ugh-
lympian events, the Dino Race is sure to separate the men from the
chimps.  Will your heroic cave-dweller make it to prehistoric fame and
glory by successfully navigating the treacherous course and crossing
the finish line first?  Or will he simply eat dirt and suffer a
lifetime of humilation and disgrace?  You decide.

"Ready...Set...UGH!"  And you're off to the races on your trusty
reptilian stead.  Move the joystick to the right to give him the spurs,
and keep spurring or your dino will stop.  To kick your dino into
"turbo" speed, push the joystick up to give your dino a little tap on
the head (your dino must be moving for this to work).  If the turbo tap
works, your dino will take off like a race horse and clear obstacles
without your guidance.  Once he slows down, you'll have to resume the
spurring.

Blorg:  "Dino have brain of dried pea.  Not club too many time or dino
get confused.  Up to five hit okay.  Chance of dino get confused each
time hit:  hit 1 -0%, hit 2 - 20%, hit 3 - 40%; hit 4 - 60%; hit 5 -
80%; hit 6 - dino fall down.  Dino not get too fast on belly."

                                PAGE 12

Next comes the tricky part:  jumping.  This requires a good deal of
coordination, something which neither dinosaur nor caveman possess
in any great abundance.  Press the joystick button to send your mount
leaping over obstacles in its path.

Blorg:  "Must have running start to jump.  Dino not want to jump - back
up, try again.  Do right or eat rocks."

You can find out who's in the lead by looking under the athlete's name;
you'll see the last flag he or she has passed.  A skull marks the
finish line.









DINO VAULT

Perhaps one of the most expensive events when it comes to paying the
price for failure, dino vaulters have proven themselves either as
athletes of steel nerves or zero brains.  Dino vaulters don't care if
they're sailing over a dinosaur named "Bilious Breath," "Incisor Face"
or "Bottomless Pit" - just as long as they sail.

Before you vault, you need to set the height of your dinosaur.  To make
dino taller, push the joystick up.  To make it shorter, pull the
joystick back.  You can set anywhere between twenty and thirty.  Once
that's done, click the button and you'll move to the starting position.

                                PAGE 13

To successfully leap over the dinosaur, you must time your cave
dweller's approach precisely.  First you have to make a good approach
by running in time to the sound of footsteps.  To begin running, push
the joystick button.  Then move the joystick slowly from left to right
and gradually increase speed as the tempo of the footsteps quicken.
When you near the edge of the ravine, press and hold the button to
plant the pole.  Just before the pole is fully extended, release the
button and your athlete will - with a little luck and skill - sail over
the gaping maw of the dinosaur.

Blorg:  "Run fast.  Plant pole right place.  Let go right time.  Not
all right, you dino delight."

                                PAGE 14

Neanderthal vault judges were the original rappers.  Aside from always
banging their heads on the rocks behind the dinos, they tend to speak
their own languange.  Occasionally a vault judge might say, "Bad Vault"
after seeing a particularly nice performance.  Don't be alarmed; to
them "bad" means good, as in "That was a baaad vault, man."  Your vault
scores will still be recorded.

                             EVENT SCORING

Before the days of calculators, cavemen kept score by stacking dinosaur
chips for each victory.  The athlete with the highest stack and worst
smell won.  With the new Neanderthal numbering system, the Ugh-lympic
committee could at last abandon the dung method.  The number of points
an Ugh-lympian receives depends on what place he or she finishes.  The
athlete with the most points at the end of all six events is the jock
supreme.

        Place Finished                   Points
             1st                           40
             2nd                           20
             3rd                           10
             4th                            5
             5th                            2
             6th                            1

NOTE:  If your player fails to complete the event, he or she won't get
any points.

                                PAGE 15



Well, those are the docs, every word.  Enjoy the game.  If your version
is not cracked be sure to get the copy protect file describing the
pictures of the cavemen.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THIS WILL GET YOU IN IF YOU STILL HAVE A PROTECTED COPY
These are descriptions of the people and events that they are good
at.  You will need to enter these for the copy protection.

LOOKING LEFT
man with small hairdo with finger in mouth         Glork-Dino Race
man with prominent forehead and finger on forhead  Sarth-Fire Making
man with club and round head                       Poog-Clubbing
LOOKING RIGHT
man with one eyebrow and big nose                  Brock-Saber Race
man with bell shaped head                          Zug-Dino Vault
LOOKING STRAIGHT AHEAD
man with mohawk and one eyebrow                    Borg-Mate Toss
man with small face and big head                   Shlep-Clubbing
GIRLS
decent looking face and sexy pose looking right    Tunga-Fire Making
straight frizzy hair looking straight ahead        Bartha-Fire Making

       AZREAL              &              FRODO THE BOLD

P.S.  Long Live the FiRM!


