           The Champions of Krynn Adventurer's Journal

                              By
                            Archon

The Champions of Krynn is protected by manual the manual which consists
of the Journal Entries and Taern Tales from the Adventurer's Journal. 
Since the journal is needed for game play (it gives hints nd
conversations as the game goes on),  I did not remove the protection
and just typed the whole damn thing in.

So,  here it is! ....

JOURNAL ENTRIES

Journal Entry 1
     "Sir Era! Sir Era! We are ultimately responsible for these people!
I don't think that we have te space to accommodate all of these
refugees, considering that Vertrothe will soon be back from his uest. 
May I suggest that we send them on their way? Th e simplest solution
would be to shut the caste against them and just pretend they don't
exist..."

     The odious minister to the Knight continues to fawn in the most
obsequious manner. His charm an personality have convinced you that
ridding the world of this... 'person'... would be beneficial toKrynn. 
Fortunately, cooler heads prevail and the minis ter is quickly taken
from the room.

Journal Entry 2
     "Listen, I know that you think that Sir Karl is a most honorable
Knight; however, I have found ut that he is under the influence of an
evil Dragon named Maya. Maya is able to transform herself ino the shape
of a beautiful woman. We must forget about  finding Caramon at this
time. If we can get t the outpost in time we may be able to save it."

Journal Entry 3
     We were captured by draconians disguised as the merchant band that
come through here every mont. When we were sleeping, they killed the
guards at the gate and captured us before we had a chance t even fight.

     "They took our leaders into the barracks and interrogated them.
They've all got to be dead now.
     "Be careful! I saw one of the Draconians kill the commandant. As
the Commandant died the draconan's shape changed and then he looked and
sounded exactly like the Commandant.

     The 'Commandant' and the other leaders spend a lot of time in the
Commandant's Office."

Journal Entry 4
     The townspeople come out and thank you after the last of the 
Dragon Armies are driven from the outpost. They have a large
celebration with you as the guest of hoor. The new Commandant speaks,

     "Thank you for saving us. Your heroic actions will live forever."

     The people cheer you as you accept the key to the outpost.

Journal Entry 5
     The gully dwarves scatter at your approach. Disgusting traces of
their recent meal permeate eveything in sight. Your camp equipment has
been opened and all foodstuffs eaten.  You quickly look to he place
where you had left the piece of the dragon orb . It is gone!

Journal Entry 6
     As you walk up to the dying body of the commandant, Grilliard
says, "Why did you do this to us?We are now too weak to hold the
outpost against Takhisis' forces.:

     You see a flight of Red Dragons closing in on the town ...

Journal Entry 7
     "Listen, Sir Karl is the most honorable of men. I would follow him
anywhere. But there is someting very dark and strange going on around
him. He seems obsessed with a young girl named Maya. The fct that he's
about 40 years older than she is isn't rea lly the problem; if they'd
just settle down ad declare themselves! All that would happen is that a
few gossips will snicker and that'll be the en of it. But they won't do
that. Maya is extremely valuable to us. She has sources of information
tha are astou nding, especially for one so young. But whenever the two
of them are in the same room the ension is so obvious that...

     "Ah, never mind. You say that he seems to be all right. I will go
on that hope, and let trouble find me in their own good time. Let's
go."

Journal Entry 8
     As you work to free the slaves, their shackles seem to come off
too easily. Before you can reac, they whip out weapons and prepare to
attack. One laughs, "The one you saw die before you was not Sr Karl, it
was a Sivak. There are no slaves here, it wa s only a story to lure you
to your doom." The begin to close in.

Journal Entry 9
     She explains to Caramon, "I've been sent by Sir Karl to get you
back to the Outpost. There are umors that large forces of draconians,
hobgoblins, minotaurs, and others are gathering. We need you o direct
scouting and raiding operations. I see now tha t things are worse than
we thought. Throtl wa supposed to have been abandoned."
     
     Caramon says, "It's even worse than that. I have seen Brass Dragon
Eggs!"

     She gasps, "No! They must not do this again!" Then she pauses,
"Wait, how can they do it? I thoght the process was lost during the War
of the Lance. Did you see any evidence that they were succesful?"

     "No," says Caramon, "I was knocked unconscious before I had a
chance to look further." He turnsto you. "I need you to investigate
this matter. Find they key, and go to the old temple in the Northast
part of the city. Find out what you can."

Journal Entry 10
     "...attempt a conversation without the intervention of Tak...

     ...book of spells that contains the necessary incantations and
rituals for the conversation. Itis said that this book will allow even
relatively weak ma...

     ...nze, silver, and gold were considered the most difficult
trans..."

Journal Entry 11
     You follow Angar into one of the buildings. He yells, "I have a
gift for you!" and you are greeed by a Dragon Highlord and a group of
his minions. As you start to draw your weapons, you realize tat you
have lost a great deal of strength. He must have
 drugged the food as well.

     You should never have trusted him...

Journal Entry 12
     "Welcome to the southern outpost. I am Grilliard, the commandant
here. I hear you have importan news for me."

     You tell him about all of the adventures that you have been on and
all of the information that ou have gathered. After you finish you ask
him about the missing messenger.

     He looks a little nervous for a moment and the says, "He has been
ill. I am afraid no one can se him right now. Thank you for delivering
the information and good luck on your journey back. I'm afaid I have to
get back to work."

     With that, he waves you out of his office.

Journal Entry 13
     SEE MAP FOR ENTRY 13

Journal Entry 14
     "Okey, dokey. Listen up people. Here's how you play. Now I've got
three cards here. Two of themare Gargoyles and the third is the
Princess. I'm gonna place the cards face down on the  table, withthe
Princess in the middle. Now, aaall you have to do i s guess where the
Princess is after I move th cards around. Easiest thing in the world,
right? Its only three cards and I'm sure you won't have ay problem
keeping track of the Princess. Simplest thing in the world. Now, who'll
place a small wage of saaay,
 3 steel pieces?"

Journal Entry 15
     "Listen," the woman says, "we ... that is, Sir Karl and I  ...have
determined that it is imperaive that the entire area be evacuated. The
number of sightings has increased to an alarming degree. e want you to
head into Gargath and force the populatio n  to evacuate immediately.
Thank goodness thre are no more Draconians. I don't know how we would
be able to get out if we had them to contend wih as well."

Journal Entry 16
     The plan has to be carried out in stages. Stage One, which is
already complete, was to threatenvarious small areas to the north and
get the good armies to begin a consolidation of their forces. W were
fortunate to find a rather hapless party that we  were able to use to
pass the false informatio to their leaders.  It was pure chance that
they were sent after Caramon when he was captured in Thrtl. We couldn't
have planned better for our purposes. We left clues behind to lead the
group to Gargth, Jelek  and Neraka. This gave us time to complete our
plans for the ambush at Sanction.

Journal Entry 17
     ...the book of conversion that I found is useless.  It doesn't
give us the actual ceremony to prform.  It is merely a description of
the ceremony.  I will have to come...

Journal Entry 18 Tale of Sir Dargaard:

     In the past, a faithful Knight of the Rose named Sir Dargaard
gained an item which gave him gret fighting prowess.  He was a scourge
of the evil armies until his entire company was poisoned at a east. 
The company was buried along with Sir Dargaard's
 great device in lands later overrun by evil. The evil      ones sought
to wrest the artifact from the tomb, but were slain by the spirits of
SirDargaard and his company.  Our scouts now say that draconians have
attempted to penetrate the tomb aain, perha ps with sufficient strength
to succeed.  It is time for a truly noble knight to go and askthat the
artifact be passed on to guard the forces of good today.

     On a side note, you will be happy to know that Caramon has
contacted our elite units in Solamni.  The Council of Knights
themselves will lead them into the coming battles.  I will be certain
to mntion your impressive record to them when they arrive.

Journal Entry 19
     The Dragonlance was a stroke of genius.  With one small theft we
distracted them from the main hreat and forced their attention on the
recovery of the weapon.  This became Stage Two, since it fitso neatly
with our plans.  It allowed us to delay the o riginal kidnapping of Sir
Karl just long enouh to gather many more bodies for Sir Lebaum to work
with.

SEE MAP FOR ENTRY 18!

Journal Entry 20
     The 'Plan' is to be carried out in three stages.  Stage one is
nearly done.  We have managed tokill Caramon and Tanis and have
captured or put to flight most of the other 'Heroes' from the
Dragonance Wars.  The good armies are reduced to sending out 
    hapless adventurers who have little or noexperience.  We have
managed to feed information to one of those bands with notable success.
The inormation is true, but it always comes too late to be of any
interest.

Journal Entry 21
     "Hey, come here.  Look at this.  This is a piece of the dragon orb
that Tasselhoff broke! Just his little piece of the orb will allow you
to control the largest dragon!  I'll sell it to you for oly 2,000 steel
pieces... and it's a bargain at twice th e price!  NO, don't touch it
with your bare fngers.  THe last person who did that woke up with a
withered hand!  Gruesome.  So, what offer have I"

Journal Entry 22
     "Welcome, I am Jadefang.  I have been assigned to capture thisss
hole and convinssse you 'Humanss' that you ssstill own it .  We did
this ssso we could gather information and keep the sssouthern oad open.
Sssince you have given usss a lot of usssefu l information, I thank
you."
     
     He bows gracefully and continues to speak.

     "However, you also have dissscovered our sssecert and therefore
you mussst die."

     YOu now notice that he is not alone in the barracks.  He rises
into the air...

Journal Entry 23
     SEE MAP FOR ENTRY 23!

Journal Entry 24 Old ogre's story:
     "I was once the councillor to the ogre princes, but I have become
too weak and crippled to keepmy place.  Now I hear of plots against our
lord Gravnak, by one of  his lieutenants.  Draconians hav slipped into
the manor house and will strike when the  current meeting ends.  I
watched them enter ad saw the secret sign they gave the guards.

     I have no love of these assassins or their traitorous ally.  Use
the sign to enter the manor, sek out the assassins and find evidence
implication Morog.  He is the traitor.  His rooms lie in the outheast
of the manor."

Journal Entry 25
     "When you get to Gargath, beware of anyone who appears to be
bending over backward to help you. be especially aware of anyone who
mentions Sir Karl.  We don't think that they know that we are no ware
of their deception. 

     "Be especially careful about any clothing they may want you to
wear.  There is an evil mage in he town who delights in putting curses
on harmless-looking objects.  Good luck."

Journal Entry 26
     "Gargath was overrun about a week ago.  There were only a few of
us here at that time trying reuild after the War of the Lance. 
Draconians and evil forces snuck in at night and captured the Keep 
Since then they have been bringing in prisoners and p utting them to
work. They make us wear these ood to keep track of us."

Journal Entry 27
     "We have had to exhume all of the bodies in the graveyard and burn
them.  We found out that somone was entering the burial glen, digging
up the bodies, and then re-animating them into zombies andghouls.  It's
been hard, especially for those that rece ntly buried their loved ones,
but it was necesary."

Journal Entry 28
     "I've been kept out of the burial grounds now for a week, I can't
even get in there to get my tols.  There are strange things going on in
there...open graves, broken tombstones, strange noises...ven the
animals are gone!  That Sir Lebaum is ruining t he town.  He even made
his office in the buril glen!  It's in the building just to the south
and west of here but the door is through the graveyad.

     "That's another strange thing...nobody's ever seen our new leader,
at least, nobody that I knowof.  He gives his orders and the 'guards'
carry them out.

     "Things just ain't right."

Journal Entry 29
     Stage Four runs almost instep with Stage Three.  As soon as Sir
Lebaum has launched his attack,the mass conversion of dragon eggs into
draconians will be performed.  The good armies will be caugh in our
mailed fist!  They have no idea that they are a bout to be attacked by
two huge armies!  The irst of the good armies will be filled with their
leaders and the elite of those accursed Knights.  hen our armies rise
so quickly, we shall cut the very heart of their ability to resist us. 
With theleaders de ad the rest of the rabble will wander like sheep.

Journal Entry 30
     Stage two is currently coming to fruition.  Sir Lebaum, our Sivak
who has taken over the leaderhip of the Knights of the Rose, has sown
enough discord in the ranks of the knights to render them ieffective
against us.  In a few days he will issue the  order that will send most
of the knights overthe mountains and out of this area altogether.

Journal Entry 31
     "Watch out for the minister.  They say that he has taken over the
castle of Sir Era and now run the old knight, as well as the kingdom. 
The people are being...hush!  He's here."


Journal Entry 32
     Gravnak's alliance plans:
     "We are both hunting for Myrtani while he seeks our deaths.  I
have no love for sanctimonious kights and their ilk, but I do love my
life.  To keep that, I would suggest a temporary alliance.  Mytani has
a base in Kernen which he visits quite often. 
 If you can slip into town, I have allies whowill help you penetrate
the base and kill Myrtani."

     He then shows you the secret sign to give his allies.

Journal Entry 33
     "The Dragonlance has been moved to Jelek.  After the Keep was
overrun I managed to smuggle it ot of town and hide it in the burial
glen.  It is hidden in an unused tomb in the north-west corner o the
grave yard.  You will recognize the entrance becau se there is a silver
rose bush growing just bfore it."

Journal Entry 34
     Gravnak and the draconians turn on you.  "Fools!" he hisses, "Did
you really think a member of y proud race would every ally with the
likes of you?"  

     You are attacked from all sides.

Journal Entry 35
     "I was with a party of knights and others under Caramon that came
in here to explore.  We havent really found anything.  Caramon's
already left to report.  I guess you must have missed him.

     "Oh, one thing we did find out was that there is a treasure left
over from the previous occupans of Throtl.  We got word of it from a
hobgoblin who was sneaking in to claim it.  Before he died, h told us
that it was located in the south-central area  of the city.  Tell you
what, if you help me fnd this treasure, I'll split it with you.  All
right?"

Journal Entry 36
     "Thank Paladine you're here.  They've taken everything! My poor
family, my friends and retainer.  Gone."  He breads down.  After a
while he looks up in anguish and says,

     "There's an Aurak who seems to be in charge.  He's had his minions
scouring the Keep.  He's looing for my dragonlance!  He'll never find
it.  It's hidden.  Hidden very well.  Nobody can find it. But I'll tell
you.  Yes.  Yes, I'll tell you.  You're f rom Caramon?  Of course, of
course.  Look on he sixth story.  As you come up the stairs you will
see a door directly ahead of you.  The wall to te left of that door has
a secret door in it.  The Dragonlance is in there."

     He looks around in fear.  "Where are they?  Where? They were here.
I saw them.  My little ones  Where are they?  I must go, I must.  I
will slip out down the stairs.  Goodbye, goodbye.  Get the ance!"

Journal Entry 37
     Stage Three is about to begin.  The good armies are marching on
sanction, and our friendly 'advnturers' are still trying to figure out
how to get the Dragonlance.  Sir Lebaum has been working in he arena of
Duerghast.  He will begin to raise his army
 of undead as soon as the good armies are in osition.  We anticipate
that this will take another day or two.  I have Blue Dragons stationed
at Durghast to guard the eggs and Red Dragons are waiting to give me
word when he has finished his prepartions.  Wh en I hear from him the
final stage will begin.

Journal Entry 38
     "They're back...back there...who, look out!  No, no, no.  I
stabbed one but it took my sword.   couldn't get it out of its body! 
Caramon!"

     His eyes clear for a moment and he becomes more lucid.  "Listen to
me," he says, "they've captued Caramon.  Most of our party has been
wiped out."

      He suddenly jerks about.  "What's that!  Get them!  They've got
Caramon.  Find him.  I'll findhim.  North, north and west and south. 
Traps!  Back up...go back now.  Quiet, quiet, quiet...look ot!  Above
you!  oh no, oh no, oh no..."

     He gets a sly, slightly mad conspiratorial look on his face.  "I
saw a money chest in a room tothe east.  I'm gonna get it and I'm set."
He looks around and leans towards you, "You wanna help?  uh, what d'ya
say?"

     The terrorized look comes back.  He screams and gasps in terror.

Journal Entry 39
     The great ship lists to port and seems to pause in silent
anticipation.  The sailors jump off lke rats.  In the distance, a hump
of moving water marks the place where  the gigantic whale swims awy. 
Your boat starts rocking as the waves from his blow
 to the ship finally reach you.

      The ship finally slips quietly under the waves.  The orb
fragment--and the Vampire--slide downto their final resting place.

Journal Entry 40
     The road back to Solace is filled with the refugees of Krynn. 
Wretched individuals and familie carry what possessions      they can
on their backs or on small pushcarts and wheelbarrows.  They al scan
the sky with fear; waiting for the horrific sigh t of dragons flying
out of the sun to breath eath onto the miserable line of humanity.

     The Second Flight of the Dragons has devastated Krynn.  Sanction
is a smoldering lake of lava. Gargath a pile of melted stone, and
Neraka has been blasted into oblivion.  Only JElek and Kernan suvive in
this part of the continent; and they have becom e enclaves of evil. 
Jelek has become Sir Lebum's base of operations, where he continues his
experiments with the undead.  Kernan has been taken ver by Myrtani and
his horde of newly created draconians.

Journal Entry 41
     The prisoner looks at you with agony as another shudder wracks his
body.  Suddenly, his flesh sems to split and a foul odor permeates the
room!  You start to gag and cough in the middle of the stnking cloud. 
The door behind you closes and you hear t he bolt being driven home. 
You are trapped!

Journal Entry 42
     The prisoner is extremely weak.  He barely croaks out some broken
phrases:

     "...the Castellan is alive.  He's being held here on this
floor..." "...an Aurak...silver eggs..black dragons...book.."

     He grabs your arms and dies.

Journal Entry 43
     "They have built up a large, wooden structure in front of the main
gates of the Keep.  I don't now what it looks like inside.  I can tell
you that the main gates are in the upper-northwest cornerof the city. 
In the middle of the city you will find a
 secret door into the wooden structure.  It i currently being guarded
by draconians because it's location has been discovered recently."  He
lick his lips in consternation and suddenly speaks in hushed intensity,
"Listen, there's a dragonlance i the Keep.
  I know, all of them were supposed to be sent South but the Castellan
was injured during he War and his lance was brought with him when he
returned.  You must find it!"

Journal Entry 44
     "Ah, come on Grag!  You know that we're supposed to guard the
grave of this guy.  The captain'sgonna be mad if he sees us in here. 
Uh, by the way, can you buy me a drink?  I'm a bit short this wek."

Journal Entry 45
     SEE MAP FOR ENTRY 45!

Journal Entry 46
     The tree suddenly explodes!  The locket is thrown away from the
enchanted circle.  From the swiling ashes of the explosion an ominous
shape slowly rises.  Vaguely manlike, it's features are
indisinguishable in the thick smoke.  Giant Rats and Mobats  charge out
of the impenetrable dust!"

Journal Entry 47
     "We've had a lot of unsavory characters passing through town
lately.  The good armies have leftus in the lurch and we are forced to
take the law into our own hands in order to protect the  citizens of
this town.  Here's the official proclamation."

     "All persons entering Jelek that are unknown to the guards shall
be assigned an escort for the uration of their stay in the city.  They
will be restricted to the public parts of the town.  The buial grounds
are strictly forbidden to all strangers.'

     "It's signed by our leader, Sir Lebaum.

     "So, here's a nice young man who'll show you around the town.

     "Skyla!  Come over here!"

     He introduces you to a  man who looks you over and breaks into a
goofy grin.  His entire aspectseems dignified enough, until he smiles
or begins to talk, then his ancestry is extremely questionabe and you
wonder if maybe he hadn't suffered a fall on  his head  as a child.

Journal Entry 48
     "Finally, you're here.  I got work that Sir Karl was going to send
someone to check this place ut.  I've been waiting for you for days. 
Come with me."

Journal Entry 49
     Sir Karl's dying monologue:

     "They tortured me to get information, but I gave them nothing. 
Killed my guards when they camefor em again.  Afraid I  didn't quite
make it all the way out.  Things getting dark...Hard to concentrate. 
There are slaves own there.  They must be freed from this evil place...
Remember me to Maya..."  His breathing stops. Journal Entry 50
     Draconians!

     I have good news.  I have managed to attain the volume that we
have been searching for all of tese years.  The power to create more of
our kind is now in my hands.  Send me all of your eggs alongwith any
mages and clerics that you may have with you. 
 I'll be at the Citadel of Gargath very soon. Have the eggs packed and
taken to me within the week.

     By order of Myrtani.

Journal Entry 51
     "The worst monsters our scouts have reported anywhere in the area
are hobgoblins. Draconians an evil dragons have long since abandoned
this area to our forces. Still, be a little wary on your wayto Throtl.

     Also, be sure to report back here immediately, if anything unusual
or dangerous occurs. This oupost depends on information brought back by
patrols such as yours. Good luck and may Paladine watch ver you."

Journal Entry 52
     The weapons and armor of Solamnic Knights and their allies are
strewn about the corridor. All o them are bent or broken and quite
useless. There is a hole in the ceiling above. It is evident thatthe
party was ambushed. There are no bodies.

Journal Entry 53
     Men discussing a rebellion:

     "I can't believe that we are letting an Aurak dictate what we have
to do. Its not right. We creted them to serve us, not the other way
around. At the meeting I'm going to speak in favor of restruturing this
alliance. Only their slimy blood will flow. "

Journal Entry 54
     A large number of human warriors are gathered here. One leaps upon
a table and calls out, "Who mong you wishes to overthrow Myrtani?" As
hands raise throughout the room, archers slip out from behnd curtains
and fire. The man on the table laughs, "Myr tani will be grateful for
your identifying yorselves."

Journal Entry 55
     "They say that there is a Vampire that has been enchanted in that
old tree. A very powerful mag trapped him there before the world was
changed. The only thing that will release him is a piece of he soul of
the mage who trapped him. The mage is long d ead, however. The only
know artifact that hadany relationship with him is the Locket of Light.
But that disappeared into the west long ago.

Journal Entry 56
     Sir Karl's last message to Maya:

    "I realize now that I shouldn't allow our differences to interfere
with our feelings. I suppose t my age it takes a while to adjust to new
things. Remembering your beauty and bravery has helped mewithstand the
tortures they have subjected me to. I now
 go out to gain my freedom. If I fail, then kow I held you in my
thoughts to the end."

Journal Entry 57
     Red Dragon's Story:
     
     "Once when I was young and my scales were sleek and smooth, I was
appointed protector of the Crwn Jewels. Beautiful they were, glistening
in the torchlight. Many a tasty thief came by to admire tem, but I
always kept them safe. Then  the city fell an d the jewels were lost. 
Since then I have soght them everywhere.  I am sure they will turn up,
so that I can watch their glittering beauty again  The crown was the
prettiest piece, golden  and encrusted with gems.  Ah, such a wondrous
time."

Journal Entry 58
     "Hello, and welcome to Jelek!  We have recovered so well from the
recent war that we are able t provide you with a guide that  will bow
to your every need.  He will direct you to our Inn, where yu can rest
in luxurious peace, and point out the exciti ng new businesses that
have helped to make Jeek the most dynamic town in all of Krynn."
     
     He waves over a tall, handsome young man.  "This is Skyla." he
says, "He will be your escort fo the duration of your stay in Jelek."

Journal Entry 59
     "Listen, I've been following you for some time now.  That Skyla
character is the leader of a fation of guards that has taken over the
city.  He looks stupid, but don't let that fool you.  He know exactly
what he looks like, and he knows how to use it
 to his advantage.

     "He takes his orders from Sir Lebaum.  Lebaum took over about a
week ago.  It was slow and insiious how he did it.  No word got out at
all and, initially, there was lots of business for      our hops. 
Everyone was happy.  Except that now he's cut of f all contact with the
outside.  Anyone that omes in here either joins the guards or is
killed, as you almost were.

     "There's another disturbing thing.  I've done some digging around
and nobody has even seen thisSir Lebaum character.  Most people have
never even heard of him.  There was a Knight of Solamnia of hat name
that was corrupted by Takhisis many, many year s ago but legend has it
that he died--horribl, they say.

     "I'd like to get into the graveyard and examine his office.  Are
you willing to go with me?"

Journal Entry 60
     Message on body of Prison Lord:

     It has come to my attention that the bodies we receive here in
Sanction from your prisons are i highly deteriorated condition.  We
realize that information must be gained by torture and that it i a
useful way to relax, but I would prefer it if a majo rity of the bones
remained uncrushed.  I willnot repeat this request.

     Sir Lebaum

Journal Entry 61
     I want you to find the adventurers and put them out of our misery.
They have served their purpse, now I'm afraid they may find some way to
get word to the good armies.  Eliminate that threat.

Journal Entry 62
     Message from assassins. The paper reads:

     We have contacted a traitor at the renegade ogres' base. We can
slip in unobserved and slay therenegade leaders. If we are not
successful, beware. Our spy tells us that the renegadesmight try to lly
with forces of good. Their knowledge of Kernen make s them dangerous.

     A rough map is drawn on the back. 

     Sir Karl then speaks, "The Solamnic Cavalry is already on the
march. It will not be too long unil these first units have arrived in
the area. We must have information on the enemy strengths and waknesses
soon. The Solamnic force will be small and an  ambush could cause them
problems."

SEE MAP FOR ENTRY 62!

Journal Entry 63 
     See map

Journal Entry 64
     WANTED:  Soldiers to wage the battle against the Solamnic usurpers
of KRYNN.  5 steel pieces whn you sign up and a guaranteed 2 steel
pieces a week until the end of the engagement.  See the recruting
officer at the Southern Sanction Inn for details.

Journal Entry 65
     Draconians!
     
     I'm afraid that the book that we spent so much effort in obtaining
has turned out to be even moe important than we thought!  Not only are
we going to be able to create more Draconians without usig eggs, but it
has taught us how to use the dragon orb  to make our existiong
Draconians even more poerful!  The Plan proceeds!

     Death to Solamnia!

Journal Entry 66
     The ogres lead you along a twisting corridor.  They assure you
that the passage is completely uknown.  Gravnak whispers for you to be
ready.  He puplls a lever, but instead of the wall opening, te floor
drops out from beneath you.  Myrtani appears ne xt to Gravnak and both
begin to laugh. JOURNAL ENTRIES 67-

Journal Entry 67
     "I was with the patrol that followed Caramon in here.  We ran into
trouble almost immediately. We were not really expecting much
opposition but...We were ambushed by a large force  of hobgoblins and
draconians.  I was knocked out by a blow to the head early in the
battle.  I awokein a dark corner, alone.  It took me a while to get my
bearings but I finally went out in search of y companions.  I overheard
from passing patrols that ev erybody except Caramon was killed.

     You must help me find Caramon.  He must not be allowed to fall
into the hands of the leaders ofthis band.

Journal Entry 68
     As the Vampire grasps the piece of orb a deep trembling shakes his
being!  Blood begins to run rom his eyes and ears as a high keening
sound forces your party to hold their heads in anguish.  TheVampire is
desperately trying to rid himself of the gla ss object.  It will not
leave his hand!  Old imsanks' spell of permanent binding is working!

Journal Entry 69
     WEARY TRAVELERS!  Come to the best accommodations on KRYNN!  The
SOUTHERN SANCTION INN is open or your business.  We are located in the
southeast corner of the city.

     THE DRAGONS CURSE is open for business in the middle of Sanction. 
We have the best selection o drinks since Istar sank beneath the sea. 
Non-humans welcome!

     IF YOU GOT THE MONEY.  WE'VE GOT WHAT YOU WANT!  While our
inventory had been decimated by the ecent war, we are again open and
offering the finest in magical items available.  As always, if we dn't
have it, we will find it, or make it.  All we need  is time and money. 
GUSMARKEN'S MAGIC SHOP.  ocated in the eastern-central area of the
city.  We are the first door to the right, heading north fom the inn.

     THE SHARPEST, MOST DURABLE WEAPONS MONEY CAN BUY!  Come to our
smithy, located just north of th Southern Sanction Inn, and peruse our
fine selection of blades, armor, arrows, darts and anything ese you
could possibly need to equip your party. REASONA BLE RATES!

     SO, YOU THINK YOU'VE EARNED THE RIGHT TO ADVANCE TO THE NEXT
LEVEL!  Horgathindorn's Training Hll has worked with the best!  Come
see us in the Northeast Corner and see if you've got what it take!

Journal Entry 70
     "Listen, I've been following you for some time.  You need to get
to Jelek as quickly as possibl.  There are rumors that Sir Karl is
about to attack the town in order to get at the last Dragonlanc that
remains in our hands.  Once you arrive, a resista nce worker will join
your group as an escort. Jelek has become prosperous lately and they
are requiring all visitors to be escorted through the twn.  The stated
reason is to show new visitors around the town, the real reason is to
keep an eye onall newcom ers and prevent anyone from getting into the
graveyard.  Our man's name is Skyla, as soon s you arrive he will be
able to join your group and help you find the Dragonlance that the
castellanhid."

Journal Entry 71
     Myrtani is gathering his forces in secret areas around Sanction. 
We won't be ready for a few weks yet.  My minions have started
gathering materials for my use.  Several graveyards have been lootd
already.  Many of them have left the open grave sites
 unfilled.  I suppose it can't be helped.  Stpidity has always been our
most dangerous enemy.

      Myrtani has found a Dragonlance!  I urged him to give it to his
strongest warrior but i'm afrad that the draconian doesn't trust anyone
who could hold that much power.  Foolish.  He's going to hde it away
somewhere in Sanction.   

Journal Entry 72
     See map!

Journal Entry 73
     "After the battle I was taken to see a powerful cleric.  He
laughed at my defeat.  They led me o some doors that glowed in the
darkness, opened them with a key that he pulled from his robes, and ook
me to a dark temple.  I saw a bronze dragon egg on  the altar!  He told
em that they were going t start the corruptions again!  Then he had his
minions beat me.

     "I woke up here.  If it hadn't of been for the treachery of a dark
elf, and a sneak attack frombehind, they never would have captured me."
He pauses.  "I'm sorry for my men." he says, "They had o idea what we
were getting into.  Krynn's blood, I did n't know either.  We were
unprepared for the xtent of the evil forces.

     "The ambush was a complete surprise."

Journal Entry 74
     Tanis's tale:

     "I had heard of slaves being taken in the area, so I disguised my
self and arranged to be captued.  I have just managed to free the
slaves here, but more are held to the south.   I will organize the
slaves here while you free the others.  Then we will arrange a
diversion to allo the slaves a chance to escape."

Journal Entry 75
     "I am the only one left from the ambush.  I was knocked out early
in the combat.  By the time Icame to, the enemy was gone.  Caramon is
dead.  I figure that they must have ganged up on him first. His was the
only body left behind.  You don't want to  know what condition they
left him in.  Evidenly they wanted to leave a warning to anyone who
comes after him.  It was awful.  I laid him out as bst I could and have
been working my way out of Throtl.  We must get back and warn the
Outpost!

     "I don't understand how they could have known that we were coming.
The ambush was obviously wel planned.  They knew exactly who was with
us and exactly how to counter any attack we could muster.

Journal Entry  76
     ...friend has many objects of value for sale...

     ...great frog collection!!!...

     ...sword that seems to be magical, at least undead creatures  are
afraid of it...

     ...many potions for sale...

     ...information about the incidents of undead and draconian
incursions in the area...

     ...a beautiful daughter...

Journal Entry 77
     Base Commander's papers.  You find:  
     
     A list of orders authorizing an attack on the knight's outpost.

     A supply list, consisting mostly of implements of torture signed
by someone known as the PrisonLord.

     The final page is an order to turn all slain prisoners over to a
Sir Lebaum.

Journal Entry 78
     "Now, what do you know about that!  They say that a real
dragonlance has been found in the hill to the east.  It also carries an
enchantment that will force any dragon to your will if you but woud the
beast."

Journal Entry 79
     Gravnak's story about the Guardian:

     "The oldest rulers of Kernen ordered the city's mages to create a
deadly guardian for their casle.  How they did it no one knows, but the
magicians gave this thing to the king.  Over the years itbecame unruly
and was locked in the vaults below this b uilding.  We know of no way
to harm it or chae it back to the vaults where it was kept.  All we
know is that an ancient tome in the library contans a recipe for a
salve that will protect the wearer from the guardian's deadly bolts. 
You must contruct this
 salve in the alchemist's study before you can succeed in passing the
guardian."

Journal Entry 80
     A few days after that, Stage three will begin. We have taken   
the pieces of the dragon orb tht the kender shattered and have placed
them in strategic spots all around sanction. Raistlin's reseaches has
determined that, under the right conditions, e ven a piece of the
dragon orb can act as a poerful lure for dragons. Furthermore, each
piece can be tuned to a particular type of dragon. He has een lost to
us since the War, but his dark elf assistant has managed to create a
spell out of Raistln's notes.
 With our captured Dragonlances. We will destroy all the good dragons
that remain in Krynn and our final victory will then be assured.

Journal Entry 81
     SEE MAP FOR ENTRY 81

Journal Entry 82
     "So! At last, you've come to rescue me. You know these things are
quite clever. Not clever enouh for me of course I've just been
improving them somewhat. Oh dear. I do hope you didn't come throug from
the North...oh, sorry.

     "I suppose you'll be wanting to get me out of here now. Oh, there
are more people back there. Srangbourn is around here somewhere. He's
looking for Caramon. Oh, you want to find him, well that's an
interesting story, you see when we first got together two weks ago...

     Uh, I can help, you know. Caramon was taken somewhere south of
here. I've been trying to reset raps in case more draconians and
hobgoblins get here.

     "Why don't we team up, Ok?"

Journal Entry 83
     "... the minotaurs have refused to come to our aid. They are
touchy beasts and I'm afraid that ur emissary was less than diplomatic.
We will attempt to contact them again but don't count on havin
their..."

     The fragment ends.

Journal Entry 84
     "... we have contacted the minotaurs. They will help us. I must go
to Gargath. It is rumored tht there is a dragonlance stored there. We
must secure the keep and find the treasure room that is hiden there.
The map of the keep shows the places where w e believe the secret door
may be located. Giv the maps to your officers and ..."

     The fragment ends.

Journal Entry 85
     "The cavernous maw of the great beast is used as an entrance to
the temple. The dragon's head i being artificially preserved through
magic. We need the dragon's fangs in order to complete our spel. If
they can be brought to us we can prevent draconia ns from ever ..."

Journal Entry 86
     SEE MAP ENTRY 86

Journal Entry 87
     "I am Angar, one of the real guards of the outpost. We were
overrun about a week ago by  draconan army. I was coming in from      a
patrol when I saw them taking over. They were everywhere ..."

     He slumps down on the bed. You notice that he desperately needs
food and rest, but he waves offyour help and continues his story,

     "I hid and they missed me, but they captured most of the other
guards. They are being held in te outpost jail. Also, they're guarding
the north side of town heavily. I think they might might havehostages
there too."

Journal Entry 88
     "Just before the Temple of Duerghast was closed, dead bodies     
were seen being carried into he arena in the Temple's northwest corner.
There were hundreds of them. It has been discovered that he Death
Knight, Sir Lebaum, has taken over the Temple  and has gathered
together the exhumed dead fo miles around.

     "There is no way that you can get into the temple through the
front gates. You must get the Shaowpeople's support. They have tunnels
that cross from the Temple of Hueryzd to the Temple of Duerghat." She
pulls out an amulet. "This amulet will let you  through a secret door.
The Shadowpeople will find you once you 


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
