
                                  +--------------------+
                                  |     CRIME WAVE     |
                                  | by Access Software |
                                  +--------------------+

Cracked By:  FuckU Enterprises

                   :  The BeastMaster
Diligence by       :  The Arch-Devil


Supplied By:  STRIKER Ace


The Crack is included in this zip should be called CWCRACK.EXE, replace
CW.EXE with this and you should have no problems with any silly doc checks.


************************  REAL DOX  ***********************

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
640K Ram, Hard Disk, VGA, MCGA, EGA or TANDY 16 color, Color Monitor

PROGRAM DISKETTES
 5 1/4" version uses 8 disks (360K each)
 3 1/2" version uses 4 disks (720K each)

GETTING STARTED
 Crime Wave must be installed on a hard disk to operate. The full game will
require approximately 2.9 meg of disk space. A special installation option 
is available which will exclude the graphic story segments of the game.
This "Short" version will require 1.4 meg of disk space. You must use
method 1 below to install the "Short" version of Crime Wave. Both methods 1
and 2 will install the full version.

INSTALLING CRIME WAVE ON YOUR HARD DISK
- METHOD 1
     STEP 1: Insert DISK 1 into drive A and B.
     STEP 2: Type: A:HINSTALL or B:HINSTALL
     STEP 3: Follow the instructions on screen
- METHOD 2
     STEP 1: Create a subdirectory on your hard disk and call it whatever
             name you wish (e.g. CRIME)
     STEP 2: Copy the contents of all disks into the subdirectory.

PLAYING CRIME WAVE
     STEP 1: Go to the drive where Crime Wave was installed.
     STEP 2: Type: CD\CRIME <ENTER>
     STEP 3: Type: CW <ENTER>

VIDEO MODES
 If you are starting Crime Wave for the first time, the program will ask
you to select a video mode. The following modes are supported:

     VGA/MCGA 320x200 256 Colors
     EGA 640x200 16 Colors
     EGA 320x200 16 Colors
     TANDY 320x200 16 Color

     NOTE: To change video modes at any time, choose GAME OPTIONS from the
           title screen, then select CHANGE VIDEO MODE from the menu.

INFORMATION

 If you're running Crime Wave for the first time, be sure to select the
INFORMATION option from the Title Screen, this will aquaint you with the
features and changes that may not be contained in this manual.

ACTION SCENE CONTROLS
 During the action scenes, the following controls are active:

     FUNCTION            KEY            Re-ASSIGNABLE?
1    Fire Large Weapon   SPACE          YES
2    Fire Small Weapon   "E"&"R"        YES
3    Crouch              TAB            YES
4    Jump                "+"& ENTER     YES
5    Walk Right          ->             YES
6    Walk Left           <-             YES
7    Walk Up             ^              YES
8    Walk Down           \/ and "5"     YES
9    PAUSE/UNPAUSE       "P"            NO
10   Quit Game           ESC            NO

     NOTE: Controls 1 through 8 can be reassigned to other keys (and to
multiple keys) if you wish. Simply select the GAME OPTIONS from the Title
Screen and the select CONFIGURE KEYBOARD. (Be sure not to use "P" or ESC
when re-assignning keys.)

STORY SCENE CONTROLS
 During the story segments, the following controls are active

FUNCTION                      KEY
-Finish Text Bubble           SPACE
 (I'm done already, go on)
-Skip to next action scene    "S"
 (ByPass story from here to next action scene)
-Repeat Animation             "R"
-PAUSE/UNPAUSE                "P"
-QUIT GAME                    ESC

GAME OPTIONS
 The following options are available by selecting GAME OPTIONS from the Title Screen.

     ADJUST SOUND
          Lets you turn the sound off during selected portions of the game.
RealSound uses a large amount of CPU time and can cause sluggish game play
on slower machines

     CHANGE VIDEO MODE
          Sets the game's video mode to one of 4 possible modes
     CONFIGURE KEYBOARD
          Lets you re-assign the keyboard controls for the Action Scenes

SCENERIO
 A powerful crime syndicate has taken over large areas of our major cities,
turning them into vast criminal wastelands.  Arson, extortion, drug
distribution, murder and now...terrorist abduction! You have just learned
that they have taken the president's daughter and are holding her and our
country hostage.

YOUR PURPOSE : To wipe out this criminal organization and rescue the
president's daughter. Even with the most sophisticated assault technology
available, it won't be easy. You are the only one that can save the country
from this sinister infestation...

GAMEPLAY
 You start the game with five lives. The game is over once all of your
lives have been lost or you have rescued the president's daughter. Extra
lives are awarded on achieving a pre-defined number of points. Lives can
also be found throughout the playfields as you progress through the game.
With each life comes a shield. This shield is drained as you are hit by the
enemy. When the shield is depleted the life is lost.

 You are equipped with the most advanced assault technology. You weapon is
a combination machine gun and rocket launcher. You can also obtain other
weapons in certain playfields as you advance through the game. These
weapons can be used for a limited amount of time. You have a large variety
of movements that allow both offensive and defensive tactics. See the
section on ACTION SCENE CONTROLS for more details.


OBJECTS
 You can pick up objects throughout the game. Objects are dropped by the
enemy and can be found under crates, barrels, etc. or can be activated by
shooting secret switches.

     Five-Shot Machine gun. This weapon discharges five shells at once.
     Ball blaster gun. This weapon fires a single burst that explodes and
                       sends out small projectiles covering a 360 degree
                       radius.
     Drugs and Money.  You received points immediately for picking these up
                       and they will also be added to the totals on the
                       Command Center. At the end of play you receive an
                       additional bonus for confiscating these items. The
                       goal is to keep the M.O.B. from using these for
                       their Master Plan.

     Machine Gun Ammo. picking up Ammo increases your supply. The amount
                       you currently have is indicated on the Command
                       Center.
     Rocket Launcher Ammo. Pick these up whenever possible. Entering the
                       higher levels with a low supply of rockets is
                       certain death
     Energy. Picking up energy icons will restore your shield level back to
                       full power. These can be used strategically for
                       maximizing points. Be careful not to wait too long
                       as objects stay on the screen only a limited time.
     Lives. Extra lives can found in various places throughout the
                       playfields.

Memorize where these are as you will need many of them to complete the
game.

BONUS ROOMS
 Bonus rooms start appearing in the ghetto. they can be found in all
playfields between the Ghetto and the Drug Factory and are indicated by a
flashing green arrow above the door. Bonus Rooms were devised by a mentally
unstable scientist working for King Pin. They contain lethal laser beam
sequencers and kinetic death pads. They are essentially puzzles to solve.
Many needed supplies can be found here and you will be amply awarded with
points for the risk. Be cautious though, it will take some practice before
these rooms are mastered


SCORING
Eddie the Lump                500
Crack the Mack                1000
The Evil Ninja                2000
Tiny                          2000
Mounted Wall Cannons          2000
Money and Drugs               2000
Crates,Barrels, Boxes         500-2000
Bonus Rooms Sequences         3000
K909                          5000
King Pin                      25000

*Bonus points are awarded for each level completed
* Extra lives are awarded for accumulative points

HINTS and TIPS
 Crouching is the most effective way to maneuver and survive.

If you are having trouble staying alive, shoot barrels, crates, etc. with
your rocket launcher or multiple times with your machine gun to uncover the
objects underneath.  There are extra lives, energy, ammo, and more under
these item.

The Evil Ninja's weapons have homing capabilities and are extremely deadly.
You can guide them into surrounding objects or avoid them until they go
away.

Look for weapons with extended capabilities in the higher levels. These
will increase your offensive capabilities.

Be cautious of enemies shooting from train windows and from the top of
subway cars.  These can be destroyed by moving as close to the wall as
possible, then jumping and shooting. These same tactics can destroy Wall
Mounted Cannons found in the factories and Bonus Rooms
