--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         DOC'S TO DRAGONSTRIKE
                      THE DRAGON COMBAT SIMULATION

                      BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE REDMAN
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
     It was dawn on the high cliffs of Sancrist Isle, but there
would be no sun today.  On oily blanket of clouds covered the sky
as far as the eye could see.  Storm winds blasted the three figures
with great gusts of cold and rain.
     "Dragon weather," Gunthar Uth Wistan shouted over the roar of
the gale as he helped his young squire mount Sirdar, the bronze
dragon.
     The weather chilled the new Knight through his armor and
underclothing.  The tabard of the Solamnic Order of the Crown was
pinned to his body by the wet wind.  It was a great honer to bear
the Knightly crest, but none of it helped against the bone chilling
cold.
     The Knight checked the wargear carefully.  He set the crystal
ball Fizban had given him into the place made for it on the saddle. 
The Arrow of Enemy Detection and the Healing Ointment were stashed
in a bag for quick retrieval.  As he finished his preparations he
looked up and watched his lord a moment.
     Arnun could sense the great leader grew weary of sending young
Knights to their death in a hopeless cause.  The campaigns went
poorly.  The Knights fought a losing battle -- being pushed further
and further back by the deadly forces of the dragonarmies. 
draconians and dragons invaded all the lands of man.
     "Tonight we will toast victories," the youth was smiling as he
finally buckled the last strap of the dragonsaddle in place.  Arnun
gripped the magical dragonlance tighter in his hand.  "I will live
by the Oath and the Measure.  You've taught me much these three
weeks, my Lord.  I'll find the enemy dragon scouts that have been
directing the draconian armies."  The young man added quietly, "Do
no fear for me, Lord Wistan".
     "Three weeks," Gunthar muttered to himself as the great dragon
rose out of sight.  "Three weeks.  I trained as a Knight twenty
years before I saw my first battle.  Paladine, what have you go us
into?  Now, I'm sending children out to do men's work."
     The sky lit up with sheets of lightning and a wall of rain
poured from the heavens.  Gunthar wondered what this might portend
for the young man and dragon he had sent off.  He ran towards the
tents and small buildings of the Solamnic outpost, wishing he could
take the place of the young man he had sent out to face probable
death that day.

                              - - -

     The rain sliced into Arnun's face, but only for a few dragon
wing beats.  Sirdar wasn't affected at all by the icy wall, but the
dragon knew his rider was.  The dragon flew powerfully upward to
find the clear air above the clouds.  In a moment Sirdar and Arnun
were greeted with the warm sun and the world took on a new look
with the light of day.
     Arnun looked at the field of clouds below him and though back
to his father's fields, to the days before the big red came from
the sky and breathed death onto his village.  Arnun though of the
dark days before meeting the old wizard, Fizban, and recalled, with
clarity, the day Fizban had volunteered to sponsor him as a squire
in the order of the Crown, before the council of Knights at
Whitestone.  Now he was atop a dragon.  The dragonarmies would
learn to fear this farmer's son.
     Arnun put his revery aside and scanned the horizon.  He went
over his orders once again: "The Dark Queen's dragon scouts are
doing us great harm.  Our armies are met by large forces of
draconians at every turn.  If we are to win this war we must be
able to move without being instantly seen."  Gunthar had told him. 
"You must find those scouts."
     Arnun noticed a patch of too white clouds in the distance.  It
looked odd to the squire.  "Sirdar, fly past that white patch will
you?"
     The dragon moved west towards the whiteness that stood out in
relief against the grey around it.  Spiraling around in lazy
circles, Sirdar approached the target.  Before the bronze could get
within a hundred yards, the clouds moved!
     The dragon was first to spot the two white dragons.  Their
whiteness gleamed in the morning sun.  Arnun had never seen white
dragons before.  These were bigger and obviously stronger than the
bronze.  This was going to be a tough fight.

                              - - -

     Each of the dragons was easily over 90 feet long, compared to
Sirdar's 72 feet length.  But neither of the creatures had riders. 
Hopefully that would be a plus in this battle.
     Sirdar had the high ground.  Dragon war training said they
should dive down on the enemy and use the power of the magical
dragonlance to attack.  Like a dart, Sirdar plummeted out of the
sky.  Arnun lined up the lance on the biggest of the whites.
     Time seemed to stop as the dragons moved together.  Arnun
watched for a heartbeat, as if he were a spectator rather than a
combatant.  Looking down the line of the dragonlance, he could see
a long scar across the belly of the closer of the two dragons.  The
smaller foe -- still larger than Sirdar -- had a hole in its right
wing.  50 yards and a lifetime away the two whites pulled up and
began beating their wings to hover in place.  The young Knight
couldn't believe what he was seeing.  Did they really mean to take
his lance in their chest?
     They were going to let the bronze come to them.  Arnun could
see their chests swell, and knew that the dragons were about to
breathe.  He would die if the frigid blasts struck him.
     "For the Oath and Measure!"  Arnun screamed without pause. 
Death would be worth slaying at least one of the dragons.  Even if
Arnun died killing the larger beast there was still a good chance
Sirdar would survive to kill the lesser foe.
     Before the lance could bite, the bronze pulled up, almost
ripping Arnun out of the saddle.  The dragon hovered for a second
like a gargantuan hummingbird.  This exposed the bronze's chest,
but protected his rider from the evil wyrms' frosty attacks. 
Sirdar screamed in pain as he took the blasts to the body.  But
Arnun lived and maybe they could still win this fight.
     "Sirdar, attack the ripped wing!"  Arnun shouted, directing
his mount towards the lesser white.  It was against a dragon's
nature to attack a smaller foe over the larger, but this time it
was necessary if they were going to win.
     Sirdar's breath attack was lightning.  The bronze's attack
flashed, ripping through the wings of the hapless white foe.  The
larger white might well survive a single attack.
     Arnun watched the bolt sear the flesh of their enemy.  The
wings became useless and the dragon fell like a stone.  Sirdar dove
after the fallen dragon to escape his larger companion for a
moment, while the squire followed it down to the ground with his
eyes.  When he looked up again the other white started to fly away. 
It was running in fear!
     "He runs! We have to stop the other dragon!"  Sirdar's wings
beat to his rider's demands.  But Arnun could hear the labored
strain of the dragon's beating.  The bronze was sorely hurt, but if
they had to die to win against the forces of the dark dragon queen,
they would die gladly.

                              - - -

     "To the depths of the abyss we will follow you!" shouted
Arnun.  They had now pursued the lone white deep into enemy
territory.  Enemy dragons could climb out from the field of clouds
below at any moment, but their white foe would not escape.
     Sensing the lance near, the white spun around to fight.  Arnun
was sure it hoped for aid, but none would come.  Their was still
hope for victory.
     The dragons hurtled together so fast that the young squire
couldn't bring his lance to bear.  The old white was far too
crafty.
     In a few wing beats the reptiles were breast to breast.  The
white was stronger, and it wasn't wounded like the bronze.  All
Arnun could see was the head of the fierce white as the bit and
clawed Sirdar.  The lance was useless, the white was too close. 
But something else could be done.
     Arnun turned loose the lance, letting it swing in its
mountings, and drew his sword.  As the white dragon's fangs bit
into the neck of his mount, the young squire launched an attack at
the head of the white.
     Arnun's aim was true.  His blade bit deeply into the eye of
the white and through to the brain.  The giant beats shivered and
died.  Sirdar ripped himself free from the death grip of his foe. 
As he pulled free he felt the familiar tug of the saddle harness
shift.  His Knight was falling!  The saddle straps across Sirdar's
chest had been severed during the battle.  Arnun looked into the
face of death a second time that day -- the shock numbed his mind.
     Sirdar spun in the air, too far from his falling comrade to
help.  The dragon uttered in an ancient tongue.
     A glow that only the dragon could see enveloped Arnun's
unconscious form and caused it to float.  The Knight was held aloft
just long enough for Sirdar to grab the boy and race back to the
army of Solamnia.
     On a hillside several miles away an old wizard finished his
simple spell.  Muttering to himself, he walked down the long road
to a certain inn.  "Krynn can't afford to lose any more of its
heroes just now.  I wonder if they'll serve spiced potatoes
tonight...what was the name of that inn again?"


INTRODUCTION
------------
     DragonStrike is a dragon combat simulator where you guide one
of the powerful good dragons of Krynn.
     The evil dragonarmies have conquered nearly all of Ansalon. 
Until now, no force could stand against the evil dragons -- that is
until the good dragons returned.  The good dragons and their riders
are the only hope for the people of Ansalon.  They alone can face
the power of the dragonarmies.
     The strength of the good dragons is no guarantee of victory. 
Cunning strategies and brilliant tactics are required.  Whether you
make it to the final battle at Neraka, whether the forces of good
triumph, will depend of your skill.


CONTROLS
--------

MOUSE -- The mouse can be used to control your dragon's flight. 
Moving the mouse forward will cause your dragon to dive; pulling
back will cause it to climb.  Moving the mouse left or right will
bank your dragon.  If you have a 2-button mouse, the left button
will fire the primary breath weapon, the right will fire the
secondary.  All other functions are controlled with the keyboard.

JOYSTICK -- The joystick can be used to control your dragon's
flight.  Moving the joystick forward or back will cause your dragon
to dive or climb.  Left and right movement will cause your dragon
to bank.  The fire button will fire the primary breath weapon.  If
your joystick has a second button, it will fire the secondary
breath weapon.


KEYBOARD COMMANDS
-----------------
      8 - Dive                     Y - Move Lance Up
      2 - Climb                    N - Move Lance Down
NUM   6 - Bank Right               G - Move Lance Left
PAD   4 - Bank Left                J - Move Lance Right
      5 - Level                    T - Move Lance Up and Left
      7 - Dive and Bank Left       U - Move Lance Up and Right
      9 - Dive and Bank Right      B - Move Lance Down and Left
      1 - Climb and Bank Left      M - Move Lance Down and Right
      3 - Climb and Bank Right
      F1 - Look Forward            Insert - Breath Weapon 1
      F2 - Look Right              Delete - Breath Weapon 2
      F3 - Look Behind             A - Faster
      F4 - Look Left               S - Slower
      1/! - Use healing Ointment on Knight
      2/@ - Use healing Ointment on Dragon
      ?   - Check Ointment
      ESC - Preferences Menu

      CTRL-J - Recalibrate Joystick
      CTRL-S - Toggle Sound On/Off
      CTRL-M - Toggle Music On/Off


PREFERENCES MENU
----------------
This menu allows you to customize your keyboard layout, set display
detail levels and more.  To make a selection, move the cursor to
the desired option and press RETURN/ENTER.

     Allows you to alter your keyboard layout.  When you select his
option you will be prompted to select keys for each of the keyboard
functions.  After you select which function to alter, you will be
asked to select the new key.

     Toggles between a graphic and numerical display of dragon and
Knight hitpoints.

     Will determine the detail of the world display.  The higher
the detail level, the longer it will take the computer to redraw
the screen.  The effect is that on slower machines the view may not
be smooth.  Experiment with this option and find the optimum detail
level for your specific machine.

     This option toggles between "wireframe" polygons, shaded solid
polygons or shaded solid outlined polygons.  The wireframe polygon
option will redraw faster than the other two.

     Determines whether other flying creatures (friend and foe)
will be displayed as bitmap 'drawings,' or polygon shapes.  Except
for the dragons, most other objects in the game are polygon shapes. 
Experiment to find what works best for you system.

     Allows you to retrieve saved games.  To select a game, move
the cursor vertically with the cursor keys to the mission you want
to fly, and then position the cursor over the desired save and
press ENTER/RETURN.

     Toggles between a bitmap dragonlance image and a aiming target
sight.  There is no difference in game play between the two
options.

     Allows you to select between keyboard, joystick, and mouse for
flying the dragon.  As you select this icon, the image with change.


TO THE AIR
----------
     The good dragons are the most powerful allies in the war
against the evil dragonarmies.  The men who guide them into battle
are renowned for their great bravery and skill, for even atop one
of these magnificent creatures -- a Knight is vulnerable.
     At the start of each flight a rider must carefully strap
himself into the skillfully crafted dragon saddle.  The saddle
allows the rider to move and shift for combat while still, almost
always, staying mounted.  The saddle has built into it a mounting
for the aerial warrior's primary weapon, the dragonlance.  The
dragonlance is fitted with a large shield to offer added protection
to the rider.


DRAGONLANCES
-----------
     The dragonlances are, after the dragons themselves, one of the
most powerful weapons available to the forces of good.  These
lances are forged according to a process that had been thought
forgotten in ages past, and are made from magical Dragon Metal.  A
single stroke from the dragonlance will slay most enemies.  Only a
few powerful opponents will require a second attack after being
struck once.


MAGIC ITEMS
-----------
     You start your adventures with the three magical items given
to you by the wizard, Fizban: the Crystal Ball, the Arrow of Enemy
Detection, and Keoghtom's Healing Ointment.  The first two items
are used automatically while they are in your possession.  To use
the ointment press 1 (to heal yourself) or 2 (to heal your dragon). 
These items (except the crystal ball) or indicated across the
bottom of the flight screen.  As you find other magical treasures,
they will be added to the screen.  Whenever you find a new magic
item, it will automatically be added to your belongings, and used
when needed.  Armor, for instance, will always be worn in combat to
help protect you from enemy attacks.


BREATH ATTACKS
--------------
     All dragons can attack with their breath weapons.  Each good
dragon has two different breath weapons, while evil dragons have
only one.  The dragon's breath attacks are described in the
Bestiary section of the manual.  After firing a breath weapon, the
Breath Bar will drop completely.  Your dragon cannot fire again
until the bar is fully recharged.  Breath attacks are the only
effective way for you to attack ships and ground troops.


CLOSE COMBAT
------------
     Hand-to-hand or teeth-to-claw combat occurs whenever your
dragon passes closely by an enemy.  Combat is automatic and a
battle sound will signal the attack.  The higher opponent will use
bite and claw attacks as he passes.  You will attack with a sword
if an opponent attacks from above your mount.  The sword attack is
automatic whenever an enemy is in range.
     Damage from below may only have the dragon above it.  Damage
from above may harm either the dragon or rider, or both.


FALLING
-------
     Whenever your dragon engages in close combat, there is a
possibility that you will be dislodged and fall.  You will also
fall if you dragon is killed.
     Your dragon will attempt to catch you before you fall to the
ground, if it is able.  If you are not caught you will be killed.
     If you have a Featherfall Ring, you will descend in a slow
floating fall like a leaf.  Enemies will still try to attack while
you fall.


HEALTH (HITPOINTS)
------------------
     The health of you and your dragon is displayed on the screen
in the Hitpoints Windows.  Hitpoints may either be displayed as a
bar, like speed or power, or as a numerical value.
     When either of these is empty, or reaches 0, the mission is
over.  If your dragon is killed you will also die.  The game ends
if you are slain, and the forces of evil revel in another victory
over good.
     Keoghtom's Healing Ointment can be used to heal wounds.  The
ointment will heal from 9-12 hitpoints.  You start the game with 3
doses of the ointment and it can be used on either you or your
dragon.  More ointment can be found during the game.  You can check
your supply with the ? key.


FLYING
------
     When flying a full speed, your dragon sweeps across the
landscape, but its ability to turn is impaired.  By slowing to a
lower speed, your dragon becomes more maneuverable.  Dragon prefer,
as a rule, not to fly a full speed during close combat.  The
current speed of your dragon is displayed in the Speed Bar at all
times.
     When your dragon dives it will gain speed rapidly.  Your
dragon will slow dramatically and tire quickly as it climbs.  Use
the A key to speed up, and the S key to slow down.
     Your dragon's height above the ground and pitch are displayed
in the Height/Pitch Indicator on the right side of the screen. 
Pitch is your dragon's angle of climb or descent.  If your dragon
is diving or climbing the pitch image will point down or up
accordingly.  When you pull into a sharp turn you may notice that
your dragon slips a little in altitude.
     In some missions you may be required to fly near the ground to
avoid being detected by the enemy, or to be in range to strafe
enemy troops with your dragon's breath attack.  In mountainous
regions it is wise to stay high enough to avoid collisions.  You
can also fly to high altitude and then drift to rest your dragon,
while still pursuing enemy forces.
     Banking, or turning, is indicated by the position of your
dragon's head on the screen.  The horizon is also a good bank
indicator.  The keypad (1-9) controls your dragon.  The 5 key is
used to level your dragon.
     The Power Bar is your dragon's current level of fatigue.  When
the bar is full, as in the beginning of the flight, your dragon
will be able to climb, accelerate and maneuver normally.  Any
action which exerts your dragon will cause the bar to shrink.  When
the bar disappears your dragon will be forced to glide until it has
recovered.  You should rest your mount by gliding occasionally to
insure that your dragon can accelerate if necessary.
     The crystal ball Fizban game you will show all objects around
your dragon.  This includes all airborne enemies, dragon breath-
weapon blasts, castles, and ships.  The crystal ball image is
centered on you and the top portion is oriented to your point of
view.  As you shift your point of view from forward to left, right,
or backward, the display in the ball will also shift.  The color of
the dots will indicate whether things are above or below you.
     The Arrow of Enemy Detection will allow you to guide your
dragon unerringly toward enemies.  The arrow is especially helpful
for indicating the relative height of an enemy.  The Arrow of Enemy
Detection appears on the playscreen just above the head of your
dragon.  It will disappear from the screen when an enemy is visible
on the screen.
     To take off from the ground increase your dragon's speed, and
then climb.  Your dragon will automatically land if you reach the
ground and less than half of maximum airspeed.  You may land any
time during a mission -- but remember that climbing back up to
combat altitudes quickly is very tiring for your dragon.  Turn your
dragon on the ground with the normal banking controls


THE KNIGHTS OF SOLAMNIA
-----------------------

The Knights of the Crown - The Order of the Crown exemplifies the
ideals of Loyalty and Obedience.  All those who wish to become
Solamnic Knights must first enter into the Knighthood as squires of
the Knights of the Crown, regardless of which Order they will
eventually serve.  All Knights begin here with training in the
virtue of loyalty.  Candidates of the Solamnic Knighthood must be
presented to a Knightly Council and be sponsored by a respected
Knight.  After the candidates are presented, and swear an oath to
the honor of the Knighthood, they begin their training

The Knights of the Sword - The Order of the Sword combines the
purest ideals of heroism and courage.  Upon completing his squire
duties in the Order of the Crown, each Knight candidate may either
advance in that Order, or enter the Order of the Sword.  The
ambitious Knight who wishes some day to enter the Order of the Rose
must first rise through the Order of the Sword.  Every candidate
who wishes to join the Order of the Sword must complete a quest. 
According to the Measure, this test must be a witnessed deed of
heroism and valor that upholds the virtues of Knightly honor.  At
the start of the Sword Quest, the applicant is asked to sacrifice
a magical item.  When the quest is done, the Knight is presented
before a Knightly Council where the tale of his deeds is told. 
After the tale is given, the candidate is welcomed as a Knight of
the Order.

The Knights of the Rose - The Order of the Rose exemplifies honor
guided by wisdom and justice.  The Knights of the Rose of the
epitome of all that is good and honorable in Knighthood.  To join
their ranks is a rare privilege.  Originally, the Knights of this
Order were taken only from the royal houses of the land.  With the
Cataclysm obscuring the genealogical records of the past, most
acceptable candidates are not denied access to the Order without
extraordinary evidence.  The Knight Applicant is brought before a
Knightly Council of the Rose.  There he must relate the history of
his family and list the deeds that exemplify the ideals of
Knighthood and Honor.  Once this tale to told, the Council holds a
closed session to discuss the Knight's application.  When an
applicant is judged worth he must sacrifice 3 magical items to the
Order before being sent on a quest.  Many aspiring Rose applicants
have lost their lives in attempting to finish these dangerous
missions.  After the Knight returns from the quest and tells the
tale of his bravery, the Council welcomes the new Knight of the
Rose.


KNIGHTS OF              KNIGHTS OF             KNIGHTS OF
THE CROWN               THE SWORD              THE ROSE

Squire of Crown
Defender of Crown  ---> Novice of Swords  ---> Novice of Roses
Knight of Crown         Knight of Swords       Knight of Tears
Scepter Knight          Blade Knight           Knight of Mind
Shield Knight           Knight Clerist         Knight of Heart
Lord of Shields         Abbot of Swords        Knight of Roses
Lord of the Crown       Elder of Swords        Keeper of Roses
Master Warrior          Master of Swords       Master of Roses
Lord Warrior            Lord of Swords         Archknight
                        Master Clerist         Lord of Roses
                        Lord Clerist           Master of Justice
                                               Lord of Justice
                                               High Justice


MISSIONS
--------
     At the start of each mission you will be told what is
happening in the War of the Lance, and then be given the
information you will need for your mission.  After the briefing you
may view the strategic map to see the operation area.
     After your briefing you will be given an opportunity to
preview the mission area.  This option will allow you to fly the
mission region without having to face any enemies.  In this mode
you will find that your dragon is able to fly faster than in a
combat mission.
     To complete the mission you must following the instructions
given to you during the briefing.  The mission will end
automatically when you have met the objectives.
     After you have completed a mission any magical item you may
have found is added to your equipment.  There is an award ceremony
if you have gained a rand or joined a new Order.
     After you have received any awards of items from a mission,
you may save the game in progress.  Simply answer "YES" to the save
prompt and follow the instructions.  Select the save slot and press
ENTER/RETURN.  There are 7 slots for each mission to be saved.

     You always start the game as a Squire in the Order of the
Crown.  You may, however, complete the game three different ways:

1.  By staying in the Order of the Crown the entire game.
2.  By choosing to advance to the Order of the Sword when given the
opportunity and completing the game in that Order.

3.  By choosing to advance to the Order of the Sword and then
advancing to the Order of the Rose when given the opportunity and
completing the game in that order.

     At the end of two of the missions you will be given an
opportunity to join the next Order.  Changing Orders will give you
a more powerful mount and allow you to fly a greater number of
missions.  Entering a more prestigious Order will make your path
more difficult.
     If you elect to change Order you will be asked to give up
magic items to the Knighthood.  After this you will be assigned a
quest to prove your worthiness.  After you successfully complete
your quest there is an awards ceremony where you are invested into
the new Knight Order and given a new mount.

NOTE:  You may not be able to fly all missions every game.  Which
missions are available is based on whether you decide to change
Orders.  Quest missions replace mission you would have otherwise
flown had you stayed in an Order.


MISSION DESCRIPTIONS
--------------------

Snow Blind - Unbeknownst to the Dark Queen, Takhisis, the good
dragons have returned to Krynn from the Isle of Dragons.  Gathering
the good forces of men and elves on Sancrist Isle, they now move
southeast to eradicate the evil which plagues the continent.  While
the good army advances, you are among the scouts left behind to
hunt for evil dragon scouts.  Should the good alliance be
discovered too early by Takhisis, the War would come to a quick
end; surprise is crucial to the good army's early victories.  You
must eliminate the scouts before they report the alliance to the
Dark Queen.  The early success of the good forces depends upon you!

Occupational Hazard - Successfully dispatching the white dragon
scouts, you leave Sancrist to rejoin your army.  As you approach
the Isle of Cristyne, your dragon spots some stragglers of the good
army's fleet.  Beyond them, on the cliffs of Cristyne, roosts a
group of wyverns.  Your mount cautions you, reminding you of the
wyvern's deadly stinger.  But filled with confidence from your
previous victory, you urge the bronze to charge the cliffs.

Black Plague - Grief and anger overwhelm you as you approach the
Knights' outpost on Southern Ergoth.  Battered and broken, the
small human settlement in which you sought to take refuge has been
destroyed to the last man, woman, and child.  Pools of acid and
melted remains mark the carnage as the wrathful destruction of a
black dragon.  The good forces have pursued the beast to the swamp
in the north, but it refuses to show its visage to a clearly
overwhelming foe.  You face a grim task of vengeance -- to find the
beast and challenge it to a duel.

Sword Quest - Your deeds mark you among the Order of the Crown, and
you are enjoined to undertake a perilous quest.  The ancient
writings of the first Knight, Vinas Solamnus, have been captured by
the Evil Dragon Highlord that holds Icewall Castle.  Prove yourself
worthy by recovering the revered artifices and the Order of the
Sword will be proud to count you among their ranks.  Upon
acceptance into the Order of the Sword you will be assigned to a
new mount, a noble silver dragon.  The way to the Sword will
challenge a Knight with unforseen dangers, but a Knight will be
honored with this chance only once in his lifetime.  Choose wisely.

Sudden Death - Declining to enter the Order of the Sword was the
most difficult decision you have ever faced.  But Knights have
little time for regret.  Gunthar briefs the assembled Knights of
the situation.  The enemy holds the forest tot he south and has
posted its red dragons on top of the mountains to the east.  If the
good forces attempt to move south to free the elven home of
Qualinesti, the reds will dive from the mountains, gaining a
crucial tactical advantage.  A plan has been devised to send a
small force to fly low through the mountains to the far side of
Qualinesti, and attack the enemy outpost.  The enemy will think the
forces of good have circled the island and are attacking from the
south..  The good dragon army will then attack from the north and
gain the advantage.  Confident of your skills, you proudly
volunteer for the mission.

Red Sky at Morning - Red sky at morning, sailor take warning -- an
old adage, one especially true this morning as the forms of the
enemy fleet rise ominously from the horizon.  Urging your mount
into a dive, you close on the enemy ships, their sails boasting the
black dragon crest.   You notice small winged forms rising to meet
your charge.

Rose Quest - Of those Knights skilled and valorous enough to
qualify for the Order of the Sword, few may enter the Order of the
Rose.  The once proud coastal city of Tarsis, whose harbors were
drained during the Cataclysm, now burns in the glow of dragonfire. 
Prove yourself worthy of entering the Order of the Rose by
retrieving the Standard of Huma, an ancient relic, from the
clutches of the Evil Dragon Highlord that occupies Tarsis.  It is
a long, hard journey, fraught with peril, but the reward of
entering the Order of the Rose, along with the promise of a mighty
gold dragon for a mount, is an honor difficult to refuse.

Pincushion - As the good dragon army travels north toward Caergoth,
you are sent on patrol over the magical forest of Wayreth.  The
coastline below is dotted with enemy outpost, manned by archers. 
Take care not to fly too close.  You must rely upon your breath
weapons to destroy the outposts.

The Fray - The skies over Caergoth rage in fierce combat as you
approach the besieged city.  You charge into the fray, joining your
comrades in their efforts to destroy the blue invaders.  Use the
breath weapons cautiously, young Knight, for friend and foe alike
fill the skies.

Rout - Unprepared for the onslaught of the good dragons, the evil
blues decide to cut their losses and run for the north.  Seeing
their hated foes retreat from the battle gives hope to the cheering
residents of Caergoth.  You bring you mount about and pursue the
blues as they flee into the mountains.

Blood of the Mountain - The blue dragons from Caergoth continue
their flight north to the city of Garnet.  You close on your
ancient foe.  Victory is surely at hand.

Homecoming - Flying in the vanguard ahead of the good dragon army,
you hope to be the first to see the Knighthood's ancient homeland,
the Plains of Solamnia.  Rising over the crest, you are overwhelmed
by the beauty of the rolling plains and winding rivers, and the
small shapes approaching from the easy scarcely catch your notice.

Cavalry - You have again joined the good dragon army in the field. 
With the element of surprise lost, the forces of good and evil meet
in their first head-to-head conflict.  If all has gone according to
plan, the other wing of the good dragon army will arrive from
Palanthas to aid in the battle of Solanthus.  You check your saddle
and prepare from a grueling battle.

Maelstrom - Success! The tide of battle has turned and the forces
of good have routed the enemy dragons.  You join in the celebration
of victory, but the festivities are short-lived as a cry is raised
by your lookout.  On the horizon you see a massive chunk of rock
with a fortress atop, floating through the air toward your
position.  The cheers of joy stick in your throat.  Who can hope to
defeat evil magic strong enough to rip a fortress from the very
earth!

Vingaard Run - The defeat of the flying citadel has given new hope
to the forces of good.  While the bulk of the army is to press on
through Throtyl Gap, a smaller force, headed by you, is sent to the
north along the Vingaard River to free Dargaard Keep and Kalaman
from the clutches of the evil army.  As your command separates from
the army, you see a flight of blues racing to the north.  You spur
your mount on, hoping to prevent them from warning Dargaard Keep or
Kalaman of your approach.

Dargaard Deception - Grim news comes from the good army's
intelligence: a collection of good dragon eggs has been kept by the
evil forces at Dargaard Keep.  You struggle to keep your mount from
charging after the single small green dragon that seems to bait you
north.  Stressing caution to your mount, you follow the lure
northward.

The Siege of Kalaman - With Dargaard free, and the stolen dragon
eggs recovered, your heart is filled with conviction as you
approach Kalaman.  You must lead your troops to storm the city and
free it from the clutches of the draconian forces.
Black Death - Upon the liberation of Kalaman, a Black Dragon
Highlord, Krogarg, has retreated to the swamps and fens many miles
northeast of Kalaman.  There is a rumor that his mount, Hematite,
has in its possession a suit of original Plate of Solamnus.  The
though that the suit may once have been worn by the great Huma, and
now lies in the slimy clutches of a black dragon, drives you to
action.  Yet, you can't bring yourself to commit your forces to
hunt down and destroy the evil Highlord.  Sending your forces south
to rejoin the rest of the good army, you decide to personally see
to this defiler.

Sulfur Straights - It is a lonely accession into the rank of Lord
of Roses.  Alone and far from the Knightly Council, you have
defeated the Black Highlord and his mount, only to discover that
the Plate of Solamnus you covet is held by another.  Hematite would
not reveal the nature of the guardian, but seemed to derive
pleasure from the thought of you pursuing this course.  Undaunted,
you head south to find the thing's lair and retrieve the Plate of
Solamnus.

Wild Estwilde - Chaos returns!  Having retrieved the legendary
Plate of Solamnus you catch up to your forces as the rejoin the
other good dragons in an assault against a second flying citadel. 
Preparing for the most difficult battle ever, you rush into the
melee.

The Battle of Godshome - During the raging battle the citadel
retreats south, to the Dark Queen's base in Neraka.  A small detail
of gold dragons with their expert riders is send to the holy valley
of Godshome to rid it of evil red dragons.  These monsters are the
largest and oldest of their type, the most dangerous evil dragons
that live.

Neraka Falls - Even as events within the Temple determine the
outcome of the War of the Lance, a battle rages in the skies above. 
Two flying citadels, with scores of red dragons, combat a force of
golds above the Temple.  To survive this final battle will require
all the skill the best of riders possess; to win, all the courage
the braves of Knights aspire to.  This victory signals the defeat
of the evil armies.  The only hero of this battle will be rewarded
only with the highest honor the Knighthood can offer: the title of
High Justice.



THE BESTIARY
------------

THE GOOD DRAGONS
----------------
     These are the dragons that you may have an opportunity to ride
into battle.  The creatures' Turn, Climb, and Speed are rated in
relation to a Bronze Dragon

BRONZE DRAGON (SIRDAR)
Armor Class: -6
Hitpoints: 144
Attacks: 2 claws, bite
Damage: 1-8, 4-24
Size: 76 feet of body length and 64 feet of tail length
Turn: Good
Climb: Good
Speed: Good
Breath Weapons: Lightning, Repulsion Gas

     Sirdar is just over 300 years old, a mature adult, and a
prince among bronze dragons.  Normally, he wouldn't have been
allowed to participate in the war, but every dragon is needed for
the struggle.  His bronze scales are unusually shiny and the dragon
likes to have them oiled so that the sun creates a blinding glare
for the enemy dragons that would close for battle.  This dragon is
a trifle vain and wears a special blue dragon skin saddle made from
his first foe in the war.  Sirdar has personally brought down five
large blue dragons in the first months of the good dragon struggles
in the war.  Generally, bronzes are ridden by Knights of the Crown. 
They are fond of war and fighting, and are extremely interested in
the affairs of mankind.  On occasion in the past they have taken
the form of domestic animals to observe men.  Normally, bronze
dragons like to be near large bodies of water and eat large water
beasts.


BRONZE DRAGON (Adamant)
Armor Class: -10
Hitpoints: 160
Attacks: 2 claws, bite
Damage: 1-8, 4-24
Size: 134 feet of body length and 110 feet of tail length
Turn: Good
Climb: Good
Speed: Good
Breath Weapons: Lightning, Repulsion Gas

     Adamant is 2,111 years old, a great wyrm of wondrous power and
the ruler of all the bronze dragons at every council.  He doesn't
like to have a human rider, but can see the need and has watched
too many of his brother dragons fall because they didn't have a
Knight protecting their backs.  He is different from other bronzes
in that his powers of breath and strength are unusually powerful,
even for a dragon of his great age.  He can't turn as fast as
smaller bronzes, but his straight flying speed is amazing.
     Adamant is usually only ridden by the highest members of the
Knightly order, but has wanted to take on a few dangerous combats
and suggested that he take some of the newer Knights whose bravery
was especially noteworthy.  Adamant's bronze scales are almost
black with age and there is a hardness to his speech and movements
that speaks of power.  This noble creature is starting to make a
reputation for death dealing among the enemy.  Often, evil dragons
will not retreat rather than engage Adamant.


SILVER DRAGON (Argent)
Armor Class: -7
Hitpoints: 152
Attacks: 2 claws, bite
Damage: 1-8, 5-30
Size: 87 feet of body length and 38 feet of tail length
Turn: Very Good
Climb: Very Good
Speed: Very Good
Breath Weapons: Cone of Cold, Paralyzation

     Argent is small for his 723 years of age.  Many of his own
kind though that he shouldn't be part of this struggle, being seen
as frail, (if you can call a 87 foot long creature frail).  Argent
proved everyone wrong, as battle after battle he launched himself
into the struggle and never received a single scratch or scorch.
     Argent is out to prove himself among both dragons and Knights. 
As a result, he will tend to fly towards the most dangerous parts
of battle.  Several Knights have posthumously won great honors on
the back of Argent.  In human form Argent will be found at all the
Knightly war planning Councils, providing good advice on how to
meet the threat of evil dragons.
     Certainly the dragons most beloved by mankind are the silver. 
These dragons mingle with the races of Krynn most often and are
mentioned in many tales and legends -- most notable the legend of
Huma.  They enjoy being around humans and elves and giving them
aid.  They will take any human or elf as rider buy are usually
ridden by Knights in the Order of the Sword.  The Silver dragon is
an exquisitely graceful flyer.  Second only to the gold in
maneuverability, it rates "Very Good" on both turning and climbing.


SILVER DRAGON (Ulaina)
Armor Class: -11
Hitpoints: 184
Attacks: 2 claws, bite
Damage: 1-8, 5-30
Size: 1480 feet of body length and 67 feet of tail length
Turn: Very Good
Climb: Very Good
Speed: Very Good
Breath Weapons: Cone of Cold, Paralyzation

     If ever there was a creature made for war, it is Ulaina.  She
has a commanding presence in human or dragon form.  In human form
she stands seven foot tall, with rippling muscles and pale skin. 
She has been known to begin battles in this human form in order to
fight draconian foes down on the ground.  In one battle, when a
huge contingent of reinforcements came onto the battlefield, Ulaina
transformed herself into her true form and proceeded to route those
500 draconians all by herself.
     Silver dragons are immune to cold, making them good fighters
against white dragons.
     Ulaina has the ability to climb into the sky faster than any
known silver dragon.  This ability has often caused her problems,
as she far outstrips her dragon wing in order to meet the enemy
sooner.  While she is a powerful creature, large numbers of enemy
dragons have often caused her dangerous problems.


GOLD DRAGON (Dolce)
Armor Class: -9
Hitpoints: 168
Attacks: 2 claws, 1 bite
Damage: 1-10, 6-36
Size: 108 feet of body length and 87 feet of tail length.
Turn: Excellent
Climb: Excellent
Speed: Excellent
Breath Weapons: Cone of fire, Chlorine Gas

     Dolce is a mature gold dragon who would like nothing better
than to sleep in his lair for centuries at a time.  The war ended
his rest and now his is going to make everyone pay for ruining his
beauty sleep.  Dolce is a strong fighter and fierce in talon-to-
talon struggle.
     Dolce is a little slow to react in battle, which has
frustrated many of the Knights who ride him.  On the other hand,
there a few gold dragons who have seen as much battle time.  Dolce
seems to have a knack for finding the enemy dragons flying in the
area.
     The most majestic of the good dragons, gold dragons are over
fifty feet long.  They have the ability to polymorph into human or
animal form but rarely do so, believing it demeaning to take on
such inelegant forms.  Gold dragons rarely take a Knight in the
Order of the Sword or Crown as the rider.  They prefer the more
prestigious Kings of the Rose if they must be ridden.  The gold
dragon is without peer in the skies.  Due to their highly magical
nature, they are excellent in both turning and climbing ability.


GOLD DRAGON (Thew)
Armor Class: -12
Hitpoints: 192
Attacks: 2 claws, bite
Damage: 1-10, 6-36
Size: 190 feet of body length and 159 feet of tail length
Turn: Excellent
Climb: Excellent
Speed: Excellent
Breath Weapons: Cone of Fire, Chlorine Gas

     Thew is the most powerful dragon among the forces of good. 
There are reports of some slightly larger dragons in the forces of
chaos, but no one has seen one of them yet.  Thew is a legend among
dragons for his strength and fighting ability.  He has flown around
the world of Krynn without stopping.  Several times he has take
large numbers of warriors on his back in night raids on enemy
strongpoints.
     Thew doesn't like this war, hates the waste in lives and wants
nothing more than to bring to a conclusion this struggle.  Towards
this end he requests, and gets, the toughest assignments.  Thew
will only allow himself to be ridden by the best of the Knights of
the Order of the Rose.  It is the greatest of honors to ride Thew
into battle.



THE EVIL DRAGONS
----------------

WHITE DRAGON
Armor Class: 4 to -7
Hitpoints: 5 to 154
Attacks: 2 claws, bite
Damage: 1-6, 2-16
Size: 5 to 104 feet body length
Turn: Below Average
Climb: Below Average
Speed: Below Average
Breath Weapon: Cone of Frost

Unusual in dragonkind, these reptiles prefer cold regions.  They
are used mainly as scouts by the evil dragon army, but have been
known to serve as guardians from time to time.  Small in size, and
not as intelligent as their cousins, white dragons rarely use
subtle tactics in a fight and prefer charging ahead.


BLACK DRAGON
Armor Class: 4 to -7
Hitpoints: 6 to 160
Attacks: 2 Claws, bite
Damage: 1-6,3-18
Size: 6 to 105 feet body length
Turn: Average
Climb: Below Average
Speed: Below Average
Breath Weapon: Acid

     Black dragons are extremely independent and will generally
only obey commands if it suits their purpose.  While some have been
seen in combat, these dragons are highly valued by the Highlords
for guarding treasures and spying.  The Black Dragon, Onyx, guarded
the great disk of Mishakal when they were found by the good
adventurers.  Blacks are very seldom involved in direct combat.
     When left to their own devices, black dragons prefer to live
in swamps or marshes.  Some, however, have been found in
subterranean lairs.


GREEN DRAGON
Armor Class: 3 to -8
Hitpoints: 7 to 168
Attacks: 2 claws, bite
Damage: 1-8, 2-20
Size: 7 to 116 feet body length
Turn: Good
Climb: Average
Speed: Average
Breath Weapon: Chlorine Gas

     Notorious even among evil dragons, the green dragons are cruel
beyond belief.  Their cunning makes them as formidable an opponent
as blue or red dragons, if there opponent is careless.  They are
fairly large and very sneaky.  Expect the unexpected when dueling
with these sly reptiles.
     Green dragons have been used many times by the Highlords for
their cruel cunning.  The green, Cyan Bloodbane, was responsible
for breathing nightmares into the ear of the Silvanesti king,
Lorac.  These evil dreams caused the perversion and fall of that
ancient elven nation.


BLUE DRAGON
Armor Class: 3 to -8
Hitpoints: 8 to 176
Attacks: 2 claws, bite
Damage: 1-8, 3-24
Size: 9 to 142 feet body length
Turn: Good
Climb: Good
Speed: Good
Breath Weapon: Lightning Bolt

     Blue Dragons are as large as the good bronze dragons.  They
are more gregarious than many of their cousins and can act and
fight well as a team.  They are very intelligent and skilled
fighters.  Blues have been used by the evil armies to batter
fortifications with their deadly lightning attacks.
     The blue dragon, Skie, is renowned, and feared, for his
loyalty to the Highlord, Kitiara.
     Although sometimes found in caves like others of their race,
blues prefer warm, arid lands.


RED DRAGON
Armor Class: 0 to -11
Hitpoints: 7 to 168
Attacks: 2 claws, bite
Damage: 1-10, 3-30
Size: 12 to 183 feet body length
Turn: Very Good
Climb: Good
Speed: Good
Breath Weapon: Cone of Fire

     Red dragons are exceptionally intelligent and cunning foes. 
These monstrous beats are the favored airborne assault force of the
Dragon Highlords.  They are the most ferocious and deadly of all
evil dragonkind -- a match for even the gold dragons.  They are
loyal to the Dark Queen herself first and the Dragon Highlords
second.  They are skilled in both attack and defense.
     Although the red dragons were never inclined to follow orders,
they somehow learned to work well together in combat.  Red dragon
groups have spearheaded assaults on many cities.  Oftentimes they
will destroy nearly an entire population before ground troops can
even arrive.  These perverse beats take great pleasure in watching
the smoldering remains of their handiwork.
     These powerful dragons can muscle their way into a turn and
therefore have a very good turning ability.  Their sheer power
allows them to climb at a good rate, identical to their smaller
blue cousins.


DEATH DRAGON
Armor Class: -11
Hitpoints: Unknown
Attacks: 2 claws, bite
Damage: 1-10, 3-30
Size: 200 feet body length
Turn: Excellent
Climb: Excellent
Speed: Very Good
Breath Weapon: Death Gas

     When some highly magical and intelligent dragons die they
become death dragons.  These creatures are so powerful that,
although their spirit rises to a greater plane of existence, their
dead and rotting bodies remain strong and powerful.  The death
dragons search for treasure, which they feed on.  When a death
dragon comes upon any sort of treasure it begins to absorb the
magic and valuables into its bone structure.  Ancient death dragons
have been described as magnificent glistening creatures because of
the assimilated treasure.  These creatures will attack any dragons
in proximity, with a blind and cunning rate.  They seem to
instinctively sense the presence of members of the erstwhile kin.
     When the death dragon has the choice of more than one target,
it will always attack the strongest opponent first.
     Death dragons roam the earth for 14 days every century. 
During this time they are searching for several large hordes of
treasure.  They will often stop to talk to evil creatures to gain
information on where such treasures might be.  When they are not
roaming, they can always be found resting on huge veins of silver
or gold.  These veins will be slowly absorbed during the century
the dragon is resting.  If the dragon is disturbed it will destroy
whomever awakened it and then go on a 30 day period of roaming.
     Because of their magical nature, death dragons are excellent
in their turning and climbing prowess - comparable to the gold
dragon.  They are also very fast, and can only be outrun by the
magnificent golds.



OTHER EVIL CREATURES
--------------------

MANTICORE
Armor Class: 4
Hitpoints: 9 to 51
Attacks: claw, claw, bite
Damage: 1-3, 1-3, 1-8
Special Attack: Tail Spikes
Turn: Average
Climb: Average
Speed: Good

     The manticore is a true monster, with a torso and legs like a
lion, batlike wings, a man's head, and tail tipped with iron spikes
and an appetite for human flesh.
     Beside using claws and teeth in combat, the manticore also
fires volleys of tail spikes at an enemy.
     Manticores are very territorial.  An individual manticore's
territory may cover 20 or more square miles.  Manticores have been
known to ally themselves with evil humans, provided such allies can
provide them with a steady, ample food supply.  But, manticores are
basically wide-ranging carnivores who are nightmarish opponents in
combat.


SIVAK DRACONIAN
Armor Class: 1
Hitpoints: 6-48
Attacks: 2 claws, bite
Damage: 1-6, 2-12
Climb: Below Average
Turn: Poor
Speed: Below Average

     The draconians are the backbone of the evil armies.  These
creatures perform many functions in the dragonarmies.  Draconians
are sent before main assaults to spy and subvert resistance.  After
the evil dragons have battered down the defenses, the draconian
troops follow to occupy the newly won lands.  Of the several known
species, only the Sivaks are able to truly fly.  They are much less
powerful than dragons, but they have greater numbers.
     The creation of the draconian race is the cause of the good
dragons entering the War of the Lance.  The draconians are created
by the magical corruption of the good dragon eggs.  They gain their
powers from this magical origin.
     Before Takhisis began her bid to return to the lands of Krynn,
she guided to the evil dragons to the Dragon Isle where the good
dragons slept.  From under the noses of the slumbering dragons,
Takhisis's forces took the good dragons' eggs.  The good dragons
were told that their precious eggs would be held safe -- so long as
they did not contest the dragonarmies in the war.  The good dragons
kept their promise until they learned the vile origins of the
draconian troops.


WYVERN
Armor Class: 3
Hitpoints: 14 to 63
Attacks: bite, stinger
Damage: 2-16, 1-6 and poison
Turn: Very Good
Climb: Average
Speed: Average

     The wyvern are a lesser wyrm -- distant relatives of the
greater dragons.  They are not exceptionally intelligent, but are
infamous for their vicious combative nature.  Wyverns will attack
anything, with no regard for size or strength.
     When airborne, the wyvern will attack with a poison stinger
shipping around at the end of nearly 20 feet of tail.  The 2-foot
long barb will pierce armor and dragon hide alike.  Wyvern poison
can hurt even a dragon and often kill a human.
     The Highlords have been able to use wyverns in their war
through the intervention of the evil dragons.  While they are very
difficult for humans to train, they will follow the orders of their
larger kin.  Something wyverns are set in lairs near known trading
routes, where they will swoop down and carry off unarmored members
of caravans.
     These lesser wyrms are extremely agile flyers and boast a very
good turning ability.


FLYING CITADEL
     Flying Citadels are fortresses that have been ripped from the
very ground and held aloft by tremendous magics.  The secret of how
these gargantuan artifacts are created is known only by a few
powerful evil mages.
     The dragonarmies have used the flying citadels with
devastating effect in their campaigns.  These floating cities house
and protect hoards of troops, and transport them effortlessly to
battle.

Downloaded From P-80 Systems 304-744-2253 * Since Halloween 1980 *

