

                        Fiendish Freddy's Big Top O'Fun
                                      by
                                   Mindscape

                        Docs typed by an Unnamed Entity
                              For : the heck of it

    These docs are being typed EXACTLY as they appeared in the manual 
    (except for margins, I hope this doesn't matter), including a reference 
    card of information they forgot to include when the manual was printed, 
    This should help those that have an uncracked copy of the game and 
    don't have the docs. 

    TANTALIZING
    Table of Contents

    What you need ....................................1
    Loading Instructions .............................2
    Key Commands .....................................4
    The Game .........................................5
    The Menu .........................................5
        Practice Mode ................................5
        Game Mode ....................................6
    The Events .......................................7
        High Diving ..................................7
        Juggling .....................................8
        Trapeze ......................................10
        Knife Throw ..................................11
        Tightrope ....................................12
        Cannonball ...................................12
    Winning or Losing the Game .......................14


    - Page 1 -
    
    What You Need
    
    Atari ST
    - Atari 520ST, 1040ST, or Mega Computer; 512K minimum
    - Color Monitor or TV 
    - Disk Drive (two are recommended)
    - Joystick
    
    Amiga
    - Amiga 500, 1000, or 2000 computer; 512K minimum
    - Color Monitor or TV
    - Disk Drive (two are recommended)
    - Joystick
    
    IBM/Tandy
    - IBM, Tandy, of 100% compatible computer
    - Color Monitor or TV
    - Disk Drive (two are recommended)
    - Joystick (optional)
    - Color or Enhanced graphics adaptor (supports EGA, MCGA, VGA, and 
      Tandy 16 color modes)


    - Page 2 - 

    LUMINOUS
    Loading Instructions

    Atari ST

    1. Make sure the joystick is plugged into Port 1
    2. Insert Disk 1, label side up, into the disk drive.
    3. Turn on your monitor, disk drive, and computer.
    4. The game will load into your computer's memory and the opening 
       sequence will begin.
   
    Note: If you have two disk drives, place Disk 1 in Drive 1 and leave it 
    there.  Use Drive 2 for Disks 2,3,4, and 5 as they are needed.

    Installing the Game on a Hard Drive:
    Fiendish Freddy's Big Top O'Fun can be installed on a Hard Drive by 
    following the instructions found in your Atari Owner's Manual for 
    copying files to a hard drive.
    
    Amiga

    1. Make sure the joystick is plugged into Port 2
    2. Turn on your monitor and computer.  If necessary, insert Kickstart 
       version 1.2 or higher into the disk drive.
    3. When asked for the Workbench disk, insert Disk 1, label side up, 
       into the disk drive.  The game will load into your computer's memory 
       and the opening sequence will begin.

    Note: If you have two disk drives, place Disk 1 in Drive 1 and leave it 
    there.  Use Drive 2 for Disk 2 and Disk 3 as they are needed.

    Installing the Game on a Hard Drive:
    Fiendish Freddy's Big Top O'Fun can be installed on a Hard Drive by 
    following the instructions found in your Amiga Owner's Manual for 
    copying files to a hard drive.


    - Page 3 -

    IBM/Tandy

    Loading the game with DOS
    1. Insert a DOS disk (version 2.1 or higher) into Drive A.
    2. If you are using a joystick, make sure it is plugged into the game 
       port of your computer.
    3. Turn on your monitor or TV and computer.
    4. Respond to the date and time prompts.
    5. When the A> prompt appears on the screen, replace your DOS disk with 
       Disk 1.
    6. Type FREDDY and press Enter.  Soon, the opening sequence will begin.

    Installing the Game on a Hard Drive:
    After you complete the procedure outlined below, Fiendish Freddy's Big 
    Top O'Fun will run entirely from your hard disk; you will not need to 
    use the floppy disks.
    1. Boot the system, if necessary, and log on to your hard drive (for 
    example, C:).  If you wish to install Fiendish Freddy's Big Top O'Fun 
    onto a subdirectory, access that directory.
    2. Insert Fiendish Freddy Disk 1 into Drive A.  At the DOS prompt for 
    the directory on which you want to install Fiendish Freddy, type COPY 
    A:*.* and press ENTER.  Repeat this procedure for Disks 2,3,4, and 5 of 
    the 5.25" version or Disks 2 and 3 for the 3.5" version.  When you have 
    finished, all of the game files will be copied to your hard drive.
    3. To play Fiendish Freddy's Big Top O'Fun, log on to your hard drive 
    directory that contains the game's files.  At the DOS prompt, type 
    FREDDY and press ENTER.
    4. To remove Fiendish Freddy's Big Top O'Fun from your hard drive, 
    simply delete all of the game files.


    - Page 4 - 

    CUNNING
    Key Commands

    Atari ST
    
    P           Allows you to pause any event.
    S           Toggles the music on or off.  The sound effects will always 
                remain. 
    Space Bar   Allows you to bypass the opening credits and opening 
                sequence.

    Amiga
    
    P           Allows you to pause any event.
    S           Toggles the music on or off.  The sound effects will always 
                remain. 
    Space Bar   Allows you to bypass the opening credits and opening 
                sequence.
    
    IBM/Tandy

    Pause       Allows you to pause any event.
    F1          Turns off all sound effects and music.
    F2          Toggles the music on/off.
    Space Bar   Allows you to bypass the opening credits and opening 
                sequence.
    Arrow Keys  Moves the characters in the direction you want them to go.
    Insert      Acts as the fire button when using keyboard commands.
  

    - Page 5 - 

    The 
    GLORIOUS 
    Game

    Blasted Big Bank! Your small, struggling circus is about to be seized 
    by a sinister scumbag, to whom you owe the sum of 10,000 smackeroos.  
    Your Big Top will be blacktop if you don't bag the bucks needed to 
    banish the barbarous banker from your beloved business.  To make 
    matters more miserable, he's sent Fiendish Freddy to foil your fragile 
    finances and prevent your people from performing at their peak.  Your 
    objective is to obliterate this financial obligation by perfectly 
    performing the precarious perils of the Big Top.  Thus you will thrill 
    the throng of spectators while also earning the megabucks needed to 
    expand your arena.


    The 
    MAGNIFICENT 
    Menu

    After the opening sequence, the carnival hawker and the Main Menu will 
    come on the screen.  This menu allows you to choose Game or Practice 
    Mode.  Practice Mode lets you practice any particular event as many 
    times as you like.  Game Mode takes you through all six events (in 
    order) and will give a score to each player.

    Practice Mode
    To select Practice Mode, use the joystick to move the pointer to the 
    bottom of the menu where it says PRACTICE and press the Fire button.  
    The menu changes to a list of the six events.  Now move the pointer 
    until it is over the event you want to practice and press the fire 
    button.  If necessary, you'll be instructed to insert a different disk.


    - Page 6 -

    Once the event has loaded, the following message appears on the screen:

                               PRESS "Q" TO QUIT
                                       OR,
                             PRESS FIRE TO CONTINUE

    Whenever the fire button is pressed you'll go to the beginning of the 
    event.  Each event has either three or four levels.  You'll begin your 
    practice at the first level and advance to the subsequent levels only 
    when you successfully complete each level.  Whenever you "fail" at an 
    event, or make it through all of the event's levels, the "Quit or 
    Continue" message reappears.  When you are finished practicing, press Q 
    and you will be returned to the hawker and the Main Menu.

    Game Mode
    To select Game Mode, use the joystick to move the pointer to the number 
    of players that will be playing the game.  There may be anywhere from 
    one to five players..  Keep in mind that the $10,000 must be earned by 
    a single player, not accumulated from what several players earn.  Thus, 
    in a multi-player game, you're trying to raise money, but you're also 
    trying to earn more than the other players.  Once the pointer is over 
    the desired number of players, press the fire button.

    Next, each player will select an animal character to represent the 
    player in the game.  Each of the five characters is presented one at a 
    time.  To scroll through the different characters, move the pointer to 
    the words "Next Beast" and press the fire button.  When the beast that 
    you want appears, move the pointer to the words "Take this beast" and 
    press the fire button again.  When each player has selected his/her 
    character, the ringmaster appears and the game begins.

    As each event begins, the character whose turn it is appears on the 
    screen along with the level he/she is performing and the message "Now 
    Appearing."  The player then presses the fire button to begin the 
    event.

    After all the players have completed an event, the distinguished panel 
    of judges will come on the screen and "score" each player by awarding 
    him/her a certain amount of money.  After the amount for each event has 
    been given, the player will see what his/her total is at that point.  
    Once each player has been scored, the Ticket Tally appears and shows 
    the totals for all the players.


    - Page 7 -

    The
    EXPLOSIVE 
    Events


    Phenomenal Feats of Diving Daring

    (High Diving)
    To begin our Big Top O'Fun we bring you an act involving horrendous 
    heights and terrifying targets (especially Level 3).  Only the 
    sturdiest of souls (and heads) will survive this stupendous spectacle.

    In this event you take on the persona of Horace the High Diver.  First 
    Horace climbs up the ladder and moves out to the end of the diving 
    platform.  On the right side of the screen is a scale model of the 
    diving platform.  An arrow points to the level where Horace is 
    standing.   In the upper left corner of the screen is the name of the 
    pose that Horace should perform first.  In the lower left corner is a 
    picture of the diver's target. 

    Press the fire button to begin Horace's dive.  Once Horace is airborne, 
    begin to quickly move the joystick from side to side, but keep Horace 
    over the target.  This gets Horace spinning around so he can gain 
    enough momentum to go into a pose.  Once he is going fast enough, a 
    bell rings and the name of a pose flashes, indicating it's time to go 
    into a pose.

    To perform a pose, move the joystick to the appropriate position and 
    then press the fire button.  The joystick positions for each diving 
    pose are as follows:

                                      Swan    
                            Recline    |    Pike
                                    \  |  /
                          Yoga _______\|/_______ King Tut
                                      /|\         
                                    /  |  \
                             Ballet    |    Nose Pinch
                                       |
                                   Dive Bomb
    

    - Page 8 - 

    As each pose is done, another name of a pose appears in the upper left 
    corner.  At this point you should again move your joystick from side to 
    side so that you prepare for the next pose.  The more poses that are 
    correctly done, the more money you will make on your dive -- that is, 
    as long as you hit your target!  As your man reaches the target area, 
    he will AUTOMATICALLY go into his entry pose.

    If you notice Horace veering from the center of the target, move the 
    joystick in the direction he needs to go to steer him back on course.  
    Once he is again on track, go back to moving your joystick from side to 
    side and prepare for another pose.

    With each new level, Horace starts from higher up on the platform and 
    has more time to perform the dives.  However, it's also easier to go 
    off course when your man is that high in the air. 

    FREDDY'S ROLE
    Once the bell rings indicating it's time to go into a pose, you must 
    immediately perform it.  Failure to do so brings out Freddy with his 
    portable, industrial-size fan to blow you off course.  With each level 
    Freddy appears sooner if you don't perform your poses as soon as the 
    bell rings.


    Genuine Juggling Genius

    (Juggling)
    It's time to welcome Jeffy-Joe the Juggler to the center ring.  As a boy 
    he was bemoaned as "Butterfingers," but now, he's well known the world 
    over as the "Wee Wizard of Wonderful Juggling" (and he's wealthy, too).

    The juggling event begins with Jeffy-Joe's obedient assistant catching 
    and then tossing up items into the air.  Jeffy-Joe then moves his 
    unicycle to maneuver himself into a position to catch and then juggle 
    each of the items.  Your objective is to keep Jeffy-Joe juggling as 
    many items as possible until the time limit runs out.  Drop five items 
    and Jeffy-Joe's juggling career will be just a memory.
    

    - Page 9 - 

    To maneuver Jeffy-Joe, push the joystick in the direction you want him 
    to move.  When you want to catch an item, move Jeffy-Joe so that he is 
    positioned to catch the item in either his left or right hand.  When 
    you press the fire button, he will toss whatever is in his left hand 
    and put whatever was in his right hand into his left hand.  He will 
    always throw things from HIS left hand (that's your right side), so you 
    may want to get into the habit of catching with his right hand then 
    switching it to his left.  Once you toss an item release the fire 
    button and prepare for the next one.

    If you pull back on the joystick, Jeffy-Joe brings both hands in to 
    catch something against his body.  It doesn't matter how the item lands 
    in your hands; you can't get hurt or penalized as long as you catch it 
    (i.e. you can catch a knife by the blade or a flaming stick by the 
    fiery end).

    In Levels 3 and 4 a baby becomes one of the juggling objects.  Your 
    objective is to safely return the little tot to its carriage.  Doing so 
    removes one of the dropped items from your tally. The carriage will 
    roll by as you juggle the baby.  To put the baby in the carriage, 
    position Jeffy-Joe so that after he tosses up the baby, the baby falls 
    not into his hands, but straight down into the carriage.  Both Jeffy-
    Joe and the carriage must be exactly positioned for this to happen.  
    Beware of the tantrum that occurs if your baby misses the carriage.

                        WITHOUT THE FIRE BUTTON PRESSED
                                       
        Moves ------------------------------------------------------- Moves
        Left                           |                              Right
                                Brings in Hands


                          WITH THE FIRE BUTTON PRESSED

                                  Tosses bombs
                                       |
       Right Hand                      |                        Left Hand
       goes up ------------------------------------------------ goes up
                  (and objects switch from right hand to left)
    

    - Page 10 -

    FREDDY'S ROLE
    Every now and then Freddy will distract your assistant and toss the 
    items out for him.  Unfortunately, you could live without Freddy's help 
    -- REALLY.  He's only tossing bombs and missiles.  If one of these 
    items falls, it's "Kablooey" for you (and we're not kidding either)!

    To handle Freddy's bombs, catch the bomb in either hand and then press 
    the fire button while pushing up on the joystick.  This maneuver will 
    toss the bomb back into Freddy's court.  If he throws a missile into 
    your act, simply keep juggling it as you would any other item until 
    time runs out for that level.


    Breathtaking Bravado from
    Hazardous Heights

    (Trapeze)
    May I direct your attention high above the center ring of our Big Top 
    O'Fun.  It's time for yet another death-defying act of courage, 
    bravery, and scanty outfits that could come off at any time.  It's our 
    own Finola of the Flying Fuller Family, and she's ready to swing her way 
    across our tent and into your lustful minds.

    As the event opens, Finola appears in the upper right corner of the 
    screen.  In the lower right corner you'll notice a picture of Finola's 
    head.  This represents the second chance that you'll have should 
    anything happen to Finola on your first attempt.  In the upper left 
    corner you'll see the next bar swing in and out of view.

    Press the fire button to start Finola of the platform.  Then move the 
    joystick in the direction that she should swing to get her momentum 
    going.  As Finola swings forward you should push the joystick left.  As 
    she swings backward, push the joystick right.  To jump to the next bar, 
    wait until the bar is moving toward Finola as she swings forward.  
    Then, right when she is at the top of her swing, press the fire button.  
    She'll perform a beautiful flip and, if timed correctly, grasp the next 
    bar.  The process then begins again.

    In addition to just swinging from bar to bar, Finola encounters 
    several obstacles like paper targets and flaming hoops.  Some of these 
    are even bobbing up and down.  Again, you must time your swing so that 
    the hoop or target is low enough for Finola to go through.
    

    - Page 11 -

    FREDDY'S ROLE
    Where does he get those wonderful toys?  In this event, Freddy is armed 
    with a large pair of scissors and a jet pack.  He's able to fly freely 
    about the big top waiting for his opportunity.  If you leave Finola on 
    one bar too long while she waits for the perfect time to jump, Freddy 
    comes along and "cuts" her act short.


    Deadly and Dangerous Daggers
    of Death

    (Knife Throw)
    Ah, your lovely assistant, Knancy Knife, is in a precarious position 
    now!  You'll notice she's been blindfolded and tied to a rotating 
    wheel, which also has balloons placed in strategic areas about her.  
    Your objective here is to break all the balloons on the wheel before 
    time runs out for that level.

    In addition to the beautiful and scantily clad Knancy, there is a row 
    of knifes that represents how many tries you have to break the balloons 
    in each level.  A clock showing your time limit appears in the upper 
    right corner.  At the center of the wheel is your aiming knife.

    Use your joystick to move this knife around the wheel until it is over 
    an area where the balloon will come by.  Press the fire button when you 
    want to throw the knife and it will fly from you to the wheel.  Timing 
    is everything in this game, so you'll need to get a feel for how long 
    it takes the knife to hit the wheel.

    Take care not to hit Knancy.  She's a real whiner and will surely let 
    you know if your aim is off.  In addition, you'll be penalized two 
    throws whenever your dagger dents her.

    FREDDY'S ROLE
    Freddy still has a stash of bombs left over from the Juggling Event, so 
    he's decided to put them to good use here.  Periodically, he will 
    appear from the side, throw a bomb and then scram before it explodes.  
    Unfortunately for you and Knancy, you have nowhere to run.  The bomb 
    fills the screen with smoke and generally shakes things up a bit.  It 
    will most likely throw off your timing and your aim, so try to regain 
    your senses as soon as you can.  Besides, he's always got another one 
    where that came from.
    

    - Page 12 - 


    Tense Travel Techniques on Tightrope

    (Tightrope)
    It's time to raise your gaze once again as our fearless tightrope 
    walker, Tony Tiptoe, demonstrates his amazing ability to span 
    spectacular distances while perched at perilous heights.  In other 
    words, he's going to walk that really high wire!

    The event begins with Tony poised in the upper right corner of the 
    screen.  The platform he must walk to is positioned in the lower left 
    corner.  In the upper left corner is the "tilt-o-meter" view of your 
    man.  This will clearly show which way Tony Tiptoe is leaning on the 
    rope.

    Begin the event by pushing your joystick straight ahead.  As Tony goes 
    forward he will probably lose his balance and begin to lean right or 
    left.  Depending on the direction he leans, move your joystick right or 
    left to balance him again and continue moving him forward on the rope,  
    (For instance, if he leans left, move the joystick to the right to 
    straighten him and then move him forward again.)  If Mr. Tiptoe leans 
    too far and is in danger of falling off, he will yell "Whoa", and his 
    balancing pole will turn red.  If he remains in this dangerous position 
    for more than a second, he will lose his balance altogether and Freddy 
    will be on the scene in no time.

    FREDDY'S ROLE
    For this event Freddy has reached deep into his bag of tricks and 
    pulled out some of his best.  To begin with, if your man takes too long 
    to cross the wire, Freddy wheels out his cannon and stops your man 
    "dead" in his tracks.  In other levels he can be seen flying around 
    trying to push you off or hurling circular saw blades at poor Tony.

    When Freddy throws blades at Tony Tiptoe, you can deflect them with his 
    pole by hitting the fire button as the blade approaches him.  Failing 
    to do so will leave Tony with a "splitting" pain.


    Combustible Cannons of Colossal
    Courage

    (Cannonball)
    And now for our fantastic and fiery finale!  It's the fearless (and 
    somewhat frenzied) Fernando, the Human Cannonball.  I direct your 
    attention to the far end of our Big Top where Fernando is pausing prior 
    to his last-minute preparations (and possible making a pass at his pert 
    apprentice).
    

    - Page 13 - 

    This event begins with your handsome human cannonball, Fernando, taking 
    his pre-flight bows.  In the lower right corner are two additional 
    helmets, representing the two other chances you'll be given in this 
    event.  (That's three chances in all.)  In the lower left corner is a 
    small outline of the cannon. 

    As his assistant, the lovely Lisa, loads the cannon with gunpowder, the 
    small outline fills with red to indicate how much gunpowder has been 
    placed in the cannon.  Once she finishes putting in the gunpowder, our 
    hero dives in.  Once he's in the cannon, a scale version of the tent 
    appears across the top of the screen.  In the middle of this will be 
    the target that the little guy must hit.

    Depending on how much gunpowder the lustful Lisa has placed in the 
    cannon, you must decide how close or far the target should be in order 
    for Fernando to hit it.  As soon as this screen appears, use your 
    joystick to move the target closer (left) or farther (right) from the 
    cannon.  This must be done quickly before...well, read what it says 
    under "Freddy's Role".  Once your target is where you want it to be, 
    press the fire button.

    At this point, your alluring assistant lights the fuse.  Once she 
    finishes, the opening of the cannon begins to rotate to the right side.  
    You must now decide on the angle at which you want Fernando to be fired 
    out of the cannon in order to reach his target.  When the cannon is at 
    the angle you want, press the fire button again.  This will launch the 
    fearless Fernando.

    To see how Fernando progresses, follow his path along the scale drawing 
    that appears at the top of the screen.  If your placement of the target 
    and angle at which he is shot are correct, he'll land on the target.  
    If your choices were off, Fernando's landing will be more than a bit 
    uncomfortable.

    FREDDY'S ROLE
    Once again, Freddy makes use of his jetpack so that he can fly about 
    the tent.  This time, however, he's armed with one big cork and just 
    guess where he wants to stick it?  Yes, if you waste too much time in 
    this event trying to decide where to position your target, Freddy will 
    make sure that your act creates a big bang.
    

    - Page 14 - 


    A 
    WONDERFUL
    Win Or A
    LOATHESOME
    Loss

    If any one player has accumulated $10,000 or more, then your big top is 
    saved from certain demise and it's curtains for Freddy.  However, if no 
    one person raised the needed $10,000, Freddy will take up permanent 
    residence in the area and your circus will be nothing but a memory.
    

        CAPTIVATINGLY CREATED BY:
                Chris Gray

          DEVIOUSLY DESIGNED BY:
                Chris Gray
               Rob Anderson
              Dennis Turner
               Ed Zolnieryk
              Raymond Cheang
    
        PERILOUSLY PROGRAMMED BY:
               Ed Zolnieryk
              Raymond Cheang
    
    AWESOME ANIMATION AND ARTWORK BY:
               Rob Anderson
    
    GORGEOUS GRAPHICS AND ADDITIONAL
               ARTWORK BY:
               Rob Anderson
    

    page break for those curious souls.


      SENSATIONAL SOUND EFFECTS BY:
                Nick Gray
    
     AMAZING ATARI ST CONVERSION BY:
               EZ Software
    
    INSPIRATIONAL IBM CONVERSION BY:
          Eastridge Technologies
    
           MASTERFUL MUSIC BY:
               Igor Shimsky
    
           MARVELOUS MANUAL BY:
              Monica Graffeo
    
          TREMENDOUSLY TYPED BY:
            an Unnamed Entity

    

    Additional Note Card:


    IBM/Tandy Users:
    
    Due to an offending oversight, some of the cunning key commands, as 
    well as other important information, were left out of the uproarious 
    User's Manual for Fiendish Freddy's Big Top O'Fun.
    
    If you are using a keyboard with a numeric keypad, the key commands for 
    the diving event are as follows:
    
                     Recline     Swan Dive       Pike
                     7           8               9

                     Yoga                        King Tut
                     4                           6

                     Ballet      Dive Bomb       Nose Pinch
                     1           2               3
    
    (back)

    If you are using a keyboard without a numeric keypad, the directional 
    key commands are as follows (except for PS/2 users -- please see note 
    below):

                     Recline          Swan Dive       Pike
                     Up and Left      Up Arrow        Up and Right

                     Yoga                             King Tut
                     Left Arrow                       Right Arrow

                     Ballet           Dive Bomb       Nose Pinch
                     Down and Left    Down Arrow      Down and Right

    Keep in mind that the Fire Button (Insert Key) must also be pressed in 
    order to perform any of the dives.

    NOTE: PS/2 users who are using a keyboard must press the SHIFT and 
    NUMLOCK keys to activate the letter keys that serve as the numeric 
    keypad.  Once this has been done, these keys will correspond to the 
    directions given above.

    Tandy 1000TL Users
    On your model, there are 2 buttons marked "Insert".  If for any reason, 
    you have trouble using the lower INSERT key during the High Diving 
    Event, use the INSERT key that is located at the top of your keyboard 
    instead.

    AdLib Sound Users
    To utilize the AdLib sound capabilities on this disk, first run the 
    "sound" driver, following the instructions that came with your AdLib 
    Sound Board.  At the A> prompt, type FREDDY -ADLIB and press ENTER.


    FINIS.

    Thank you very much for choosing to utilize "an Unnamed Entity's" docs.  
    Look for many more of these document files to appear in the future.  
    One more thing...this manual was written EXACTLY as they worded it, so 
    don't blame me for the style used in its writing, or inconsistencies in 
    the story line (such as in the Juggling Event they mention that Jeffy-
    Joe is very wealthy.  They why doesn't HE pay off the damn loan?!?).  I 
    know most of you have a cracked version, and probably know how to 
    install the game to your hard drive (big challenge, eh?), but if I'm 
    going to break copyright laws, I might as well go all the way (and 
    still give credit to those who programmed the game). 



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
