                               MEGATRAVELLER 2

                        DOCS BY THE HUMBLE GUYS/RYGAR


                              Technical Supplement

Selecting Options From Lists
============================
   When selecting options from the character generation tables and from the
game play icon options, choices can be selected by highlighting the option
using the keyboard, mouse or joystick and then pressing the appropriate
button or the <ENTER> key.  As well, choices can be selected by pressing the
first letter of the desired choice.  If more than one selection starts with
the same letter, press that letter repeatedly until the one you want is
highlighted, then select it by pressing the proper button or the <ENTER>
key as described above.


                             Character Generation

Selecting Menu Items
====================
   Mouse: Move the mouse pointer to the desired choice, then press the left
mouse button.

   Joystick: Use the joystick to move the highlight bar to the desired choice,
then press button 1.

   Keyboard: Use the arrow keys to position the highlight bar on the desired
choice, then press the enter key.  The home and End keys will move the bar to
the first and last choice, respectively.

  Random Selections: Pressing F4 will make a random selection from most tables
while you are creating a character.

   Pressing the ESCape key will either back up to the previous menu, or ask
you if you want to terminate creation of the character.

Naming Characters
=================
   Pressing the F2 key will randomly generate a name for the character.  The
MegaTraveller word generation procedure is used to generate the names.  The
Vargr word generation table is used for Vargr characters, and the Vilani
table is used for Humans.  In addition, the Vilani table was used to help
us generate the city names.

   You can have up to 34 characters in your character pool.


                             On the Ground

Selecting Icons
===============
   Either click on the icon with the left mouse button, or press ESC key,
right mouse button, or joystick button 2 to stop all action and select an
icon (using the arrow and enter keys, joystick or mouse).

Selecting a character
=====================
   Click on the character's information box with the mouse or press F1, F2,
F3, F4 or F5 key to bring up that character's sheet. (F1 is the leftmost
character, f% is the rightmost).

Zooming In And Out
==================
   You can use the + and - keys to Zoom In and Zoom Out, respectively. (With
MCGA graphics, you can only zoom into the closest level if you have expanded
memory.)


                                Ground Combat

   After selecting TARGET from the combat icon, you can use the TAB key to
select the people you want to attack (or you can click on them with the mouse)
Use the same keys to have the character you are controlling target and attack
someone.  If you're using a mouse, just click on the enemy NPC that you want
to fire at.


                             The Character Sheet

Keyboard/Joystick
=================
   You can use the U key to USE an item, E to EXAMINE it, X to EXCHANGE, D
to DROP, O to select the OBJECT LIST, and S to select the SKILLS LIST.  The
left and right arrows (or left and right movements of the joystick) move the
highlight between the various options, as does the TAB key.  If you are on
the object or skills list, the Up and Down arrows will move the highlight
(on the Object list) and scroll the lists.  In the Object list, use the ENTER
key (or joystick button 1) to select an object.  The ESC key will return you
to the game.  you can use the F1 - F5 keys to select another character.

Mouse
=====
   You can use the keyboard commands given above, or just click with the left
button on the option you want.  Use the arrows arounf the Object and Skills
list to scroll those.  The right mouse button will return you to the game.
You can select another character by clicking on that character's information
box.  You can select objects by clicking on them in the object window.


                        Space Exploration and Combat

   The space navigation and combat sequences are controlled completely from
the icon options.  The options can be selected by using the Up/Down arrow
keys on the keyboard, by highlighting the option with the mouse, and pressing
the left mouse button to select it, or by scrolling through the options with
a joystick and pressing button 1 on the joystick to select it.

   To escape from an options list, press the ESCape key, button 2 on the
joystick, or the right mouse button.

   As with ground exploration sequences, the individual character sheets can
be accessed by clicking on the character's information area with the mouse
or by pressing the F1 - F5 keys for respective characters.

   NOTE: Please refer to the manual for Game Play Icons and the options
available under each icon selection.


                                Saving Games

   A game can be saved on the ground or in space by selecting the save option
from the game controls icon.  If you are playing from a floppy disks, you will
be asked to insert your save game disk into a drive and type a name for the
save game file.  If you are playing from a hard drive, you can simply type
the name of the save game.


                              Restoring Games

   A saved game can be restored by selecting the restore game option from the
game controls icon.


    Paragon Tech Support Line - 412/838.1173 - Mon-Fri 8am-5pm Eastern


                        BACKGROUND/INTRODUCTION

                       The Legend of the Ancients

            About 500,000 years ago, the Droyne, an exotic
         alien race of omnivore/gatherers, emerged as the  most
         dominant and intelligent species on the planet
         Eskayloyt (meaning "Lost World").  The Droyne evolved
         into an intelligent, gentle and peaceful race.  The social
         structure placed individuals in professions best suited to
         their talents and needs; cooperation and trust were the
         cornerstones of Droyne  society.  Each  Droyne  filled  an
         integral position in the social hierarchy, and the race, as
         a whole, prospered.

            For ages, historians and storytellers  have  written
         about a legendary Droyne who - due to a mutation -
         was born with an astounding level of intelligence.
         While still in his youth, the brilliant Droyne mastered all
         the scientific and philosophic wonders of his  race.  He
         began searching for his purpose  in  life;  he  undertook
         scientific experiments, designed  arduous  projects  and
         searched for a meaningful occupation that would
         provide a sense of fulfillment.  Although  the  brilliant
         Droyne didn't pinpoint one  specific  area  on  which  he
         wanted to focus exclusively, he realized that  the  con-
         tinuous search itself was his actual  reward.  He  would
         devote his life to the pursuit of  knowledge;  he  would
         experiment, philosophize, study  and  explore  the  limits
         of consciousness.

             When  he  decided  that  he   needed   manpower   to
         advance his  experiments  he  took  over  his  world  and
         put his race to work  on  avant-garde  projects.  Legend
         states that when the inevitable tug of mortality began to
         wear  him  down,  he  discovered  a  method  of   attaining
         eternal life.  When the mysteries of the starlit  heavens
         perplexed him, he  constructed  a  powerful  starship  -
         equipped with  an  advanced  jump  drive  -  and  set  out
         to explore the mysteries of the universe.

             When his  vast  knowledge  transcended  the  abilities
         of the Droyne race, he decided  to  father  offspring  who
         could assist him with his mind-boggling  projects.  He
         fathered twenty children, and each  of  those  children
         fathered twenty children of their own.  He took the
         name Grandfather, and became  the  leader  of  the  race
         that would become known as the Ancients.

            For hundreds of years, Grandfather worked on a
         variety of projects, assigning portions of each to his
         children and grandchildren.  The Ancients dispersed
         throughout the universe in search of innovations and
         secrets, and astounding new technology was often
         created.  Grandfather and his offspring kindled supeno-
         vae, explored and mapped new worlds, experimented
         with the genes of animals to create new species of
         beings, constructed magnificent sites and developed
         intriguing, and sometimes incomprehensible, tools,
         objects and artifacts.

             Each of Grandfather's children and grandchildren
         was named a project leader and assigned specific tasks
         by Grandfather; forces of Droynes were used for the
         necessary physical labor.  Ancient sites, constructed as
         bases to support specific projects, were scattered
         throughout the universe.

             Grandfather discovered the Earth and, for a time,
         toyed with the notion of replacing Droyne laborers
         with humans.  His human project was not entirely
         successful; however, human laborers were unitized in a
         few Ancient locations.  Grandfather also experimented
         with canines, genetically altering them with increased
         intelligence levels, opposable thumbs and upright
         postures.  Later, he constructed highly advanced robots
         that proved to be extremely helpful, despite the fact
         that they were not as intelligent or resourceful as his
         offspring.

             Grandfather finally reached a point where he grew
         tired, so he decided to enjoy a well-deserved rest.  He
         spent an extended period travelling through Droyne
         territories, contemplating his accomplishments, plan-
         ning for the future and relaxing.

            After his recess, a rejuvenated Grandfather decided
         to tackle his most ambitious project ever: the explora-
         tion of unknown frontiers of existence.  He summoned
         His offspring and commanded them to help him with
         his plans, but many of them were too preoccupied with
         personal projects to obey Grandfather's orders.  During
         Grandfather's time away, many of his offspring devel-
         oped a strong sense of independence.

            Grandfather began his work independently, and
         soon discovered that many of his children's experi-
         ments interfered with his immediate plans.  He ques-
         tioned his decision to father offspring and, after deter-
         mining that his decision was a mistake, grew,, deter-
         mined to rectify the error; he devised an elaborate
         campaign to eliminate his children and grandchildren.

            Naturally, when Grandfather's offspring discovered
         his plot, they resisted forcefully.  The Ancients aban-
         doned their intellectual quests and focused their bril-
         liance on weapons of mass destruction.  The war
         between Grandfather and his offspring escalated into
         the most cataclysmic struggle in history.  In the wake of
         the ruinous, High-tech war of the Ancients, entire
         worlds were obliterated, and vast races - innocent
         bystanders to the conflict - were, wiped out with
         advanced weapons that were so powerful that they still
         can't be fully comprehended.

            After two thousand years of mass destruction,
         Grandfather defeated his opposing factions and de-
         stroyed all of his descendants (he kept extremely
         careful count).  The galaxy was somewhat worse for
         wear, with many new asteroid belts and numerous
         ravaged worlds.

              Legend states that Grandfather disappeared shortly
         after the war drew to its bloody conclusion. The
         mystery  of  his  disappearance  has  never been solved.
         Some say that Grandfather was killed by a secret
         survivor of his lineage; others  believe that he commit-
         ted suicide after  his  destructive actions became starkly
         apparent to him.  There are even those who say that
         Grandfather never actually existed; that he was only a
         mythical figure of fable.

              After 300,000 years, the legend of the Ancients
         persists.  Even today, the ruins  of  the  Ancients  continue
         to baffle experts.  Mysterious  and  dazzling  artifacts  are
         still unearthed at various Ancient  sites  that  are  spread
         throughout  regions  of   the   Spinward   Marches.   Though
         the origin of the Ancients remains a mystery, it is  a  fact
         that the brilliant race that once ruled the galaxy destroyed
         itself in an apocalyptic war.  The  proof  is  found
         in the ruins of the Ancient sites, such as the  one  on  the
         planet Rhylanor.

              It is here that your  adventure  begins.  The  Ancients
         have remained silent for 300,000 years... until now.
         Now, it's up to you to discover the secrets of the
         Ancients.

                       The MegaTraveller Universe

              The MegaTraveller universe is dominated by the
         Imperium,  a  vast  star-spanning  empire  which  has  ruled
         the galaxy for  more  than  a  thousand  years.  This  Third
         Imperium  is  a  human  empire,  encompassing   more   than
         ten  thousand  star  systems.  There  are  star   empires on
         the fringes of the Imperial borders, but  they  are  smaller
         and  less  powerful  than  the  Imperium.  Some  are   human
         empires; others are communities of aliens like the
         canine Vargr, the warrior Aslan, or the multi-tentacled
         Hivers.

             But the imperium is the largest known interstellar
         empire.  It dominates all of explored space. its neigh-
         bors are jealous - but respectful -  of  its  power.

                     A Brief History of the Empires

             There  have  been  three  Imperiums   governing
         inter-stellar territory.

             The First Imperium

             The Ziru Sirka (the Grand Empire of Stars) started
         more than 9,000 years ago.  It grew to absorb thousands
         of star systems, and continued to grow until its govern-
         ment could no longer handle the burden.  In an effort to
         make the government more easily manageable, The
         First Imperium froze technology, making technological
         innovation difficult, and even criminal.  In the last
         thousand years of its rule, the Ziru Sirka was in  a
         natural decline, eager to maintain the status quo rather
         than seeking  growth.  It  was  thus  encountered   by
         explorers from Terra (Earth) in 2096 AD.

             In a series of wars between 2096 and 2299, the
         Terran Space Navy fought the Ziru Sirka to a stand-still.
         In the final battle, the Imperials collapsed and were
         taken over by Terra, leading to The Second Imperium.

             The Second Imperium

             At first, the conquering Terrans wanted to loot the
         conquered territories for their own personal wealth, but
         this immediately proved to be impractical; the thou-
         sands of Terran governors, installed on the conquered
         planets to establish order, began to lose control as they
         tried to maintain the existing structure amid great
         confusion and strife.  In a losing battle, the Rule of Man
         (as Terra named its empire) tried, unsuccessfully, to
         reverse the inevitable decline within its territory.

             The Rule of Man failed, leading to the Long Night, a
         dark age in which no central authority existed.  Worlds
         reverted to pre-starflight technology.  Entire populations
         of planets perished without the support of high tech-
         nology from neighboring worlds.  The Long Night lasted
         more than a thousand years, leading to The Third
         Imperium.

             The Third Imperium

             Ultimately, a small core of industrial worlds began
         to evolve, re-discovering  starflight  technology  and
         opening communication tines with neighboring worlds.
         A powerful industrialist named Cleon (later the fest
         Emperor of the Third Imperium) directed the techno-
         logical renaissance, creating a Scout Service to discover
         new, unexplored worlds that could be added to his
         growing community of planets.

             The time was ripe for a  new  galaxy  order.  Star
         systems clamored  for  inclusion  in  Cleon's  growing
         empire.  Trade increased dramatically and The Third
         Imperium grew with amazing speed.  Within 500 years,
         the Imperium had reached its current borders.

             Progress did not come without conflict.  During the
         Third Imperium's first 1100 years, it suffered through a
         terrible civil war, continuing frontier wars with  the
         neighboring Zhodani and Aslan, and an extended war
         with the Solomani.  Despite the difficulties, The Third
         Imperium remains in power today.

                        The Imperial Government

             The Imperium is a collection of worlds, each self-
         governing and nominally independent.  The Imperium
         does not rule its thousands of worlds; it rules the space
         between them, and so controls them and the dealings
         between them. in essence, the Imperium controls trade
         and commerce while providing protection against
         pirates and invaders.

             Two very different forces are the keys to the
         imperium's control: the speed of communication, and
         honor.

             Communication is limited to the speed of the fastest
         ships.  Since the fastest ships in the empire can travel 6
         parsecs per week (or about 300 parsecs per year), a
         world 300 parsecs from Capital (the Imperium's Capital
         world) is a year away, even on the fastest ship.  Not
         coincidentally, 300 parsecs is about the radius of the
         Imperial border.  Beyond that, the Imperium's
         ability to exercise control breaks down.

             Honor is the second element of the Imperium's
         control.  When instant communication is not available,
         the Emperor must rely on the loyalty and trustworthy-
         ness of his subjects.  Consequently, centuries of tradition
         have made honor a basic trait of the Imperial nobility.
         Each noble, knight, baron, marquis, count, or duke
         knows and believes that it is his own responsibility to
         serve the Imperium honestly.  That doesn't mean that
         neighbors don't have petty squabbles, or selfish profit
         motives.  But each leader is loyal to the Imperium,
         above all else.  And that dedication to honor is what
         holds the Imperium together.

           Most citizens of the Imperium aspire to the nobility.
         Though heroism or exemplary service, it is possible for
         an ordinary citizen to be knighted, or ultimately reach
         an even higher position in the chain of nobility.

                              The Future

             The Imperium is a vast territory, rich in resources,
         but difficult to rule completely.  The imperium thrives
         because of the great benefits that it provides its citizens
         and member worlds.  However, the benefits are not
         free; hard work, imagination and loyalty are required to
         be an Imperial citizen.

                          The Spinward Marches

             In the early centuries of its existence, the Imperium
         used a "link and brunch" system for exploring the stars,
         contacting worlds and societies, and establishing
         important bases along the ever-expanding frontier.
         Links connected the older bases with the newer ones,
         and became highways for trade and transport.  Branches.
         emanated from the various bases to touch the scattered
         worlds that promised resources and markets.  It was
         only natural that the merchant and transport corpora-
         tions should adopt these same links and branches in
         their activities.  From the main links, these corporations
         (as well as the independent merchants and the settlers
         looking for challenge or for a hand in their own des-
         tiny) set out to the worlds farther off the mainstream-n.
         Fertile worlds were settled, enterprising merchants
         shipped goods to them and established markets.
         Everyone prospered in the ever-expanding Imperium.
         
              As the Scout Service explored regions beyond
         current Imperial borders, it encountered obstacles.  In
         some cases, the Scouts met already established interstellar-
         lar societies (the Vargr and the Aslan), or expanses of
         low density space (the Greater and Lesser Rifts).

              One basic link (and a highly successful one)
         extended from Vland (seat of the First Imperium and
         still an important trade center) spinward.  Beyond Vland
         was Corridor Sector, stretching between a spur of the
         Great Rift and the Vargr Extents.  Beyond Corridor was
         Deneb, where the megacorporations established a
         sprawling industrial complex.  While the branches
         opened up Corridor and Deneb, the Scout Service
         forged links to the Spinward Marches.

             Scout Service exploration from Deneb carried
         survey cruisers through a relatively unpopulated region,
         finally contacting an isolated confederation - the
         Sword Worlds - and their neighbors beyond - The
         Darrians.  Naturally enough, with established societies at
         the end of the links, they became major trade routes.
         The territory on the very edge of the Imperium became
         known as the Spinward Marches.  Originally, the base
         for commerce was Deneb, but as more and more
         settlement took place, the focus moved spinward,
         ultimately establishing itself at Mora.

             Thus Mora, settled in the year 60, was the first
         major Imperial establishment in the Spinward Marches.
         Financed by Ling-Standard Products, Mora soon be-
         came a thriving trade center, where new ships were
         built, old ships were overhauled and manufacturers
         produced a variety of goods.  Mora was the gateway to
         the Spinward Marches.

             Mora proved an ideal and fortunate choice.  The
         system links hundreds of worlds with simple jump-1
         connections.  This Spinward Main allowed free traders
         to ply the space lanes in search of new markets, new
         worlds, and new customers.  Often they carried settlers
         to the more promising worlds, and then supplied them
         with vital off-world goods in return for metals, minerals,
         ores, precious woods, and rare foods and spices, as
         well as artifacts of various cultures.

             Even as the Imperial links were prospering, the
         branches grew on their own.  Two major branches grew
         in the spinward marches, each following the Spinward
         Main.  One branch worked its way rimward through the
         Sword Worlds, while the other crept coreward into
         unexplored space.

             The rimward  branch  extended through a portion of
         the Sword Worlds at their sufferance, and settlement
         was greatly inhibited until alternative routes into the
         area were opened from the Deneb sector.

             Early on, the coreward branch reached Regina, and
         that system was settled by the year 75 (only fifteen
         years after the first Imperial settlements in the Marches).
         Regina's dominion grew over several worlds, and it
         soon  became a common  destination for traders.  By the
         year 250, Regina had been incorporated into the
         Imperium along with six neighboring worlds.  By the
         year 300, the number of Imperial worlds in the cluster
         had grown to 17.  Naturally, the branch heading to
         Regina became well-travelled; settlement soon fol-
         lowed.

             Elsewhere, parts of the Spinward Marches, off the
         Spinward Main, remained backwaters.  Their relative
         lack of accessibility restricted the number of ships that
         could call on them, which in turn kept them from
         developing at the same pace  as  the  other  worlds  of  the
         Marches.  Even today, these worlds, settled by people
         intent on separation or privacy, are second-class plan-
         ets.

             Today, the Spinward Marches contains 440 worlds.
         The total population of the sector is approximately 388
         billion.

                    Introduction to the Main Scenario

              In MegaTraveller 2: Quest for the Ancients, you
          create five characters, male or female, with a variety of
          attributes and skills.  After your characters are generated,
          you are asked to choose a leader of your group.  The
          introductory sequence of the game is centered around
          your lead character.

             The introductory sequence is actually viewed from
          a video tape monitor.  You were recording highlights of
          your vacation on the planet Rhylanor, filming the nuns
          of the famous Ancient site that has been a local tourist
          attraction for centuries.  As you recorded the tour,
          Mervin, the tour guide, explained that the purpose of
          the Ancient site has always perplexed experts; no one
          is sure what the Ancients had in n-mind when they
          constructed the mountainous structure.  As the tour
          continued, the Ancient site mysteriously sprang to life,
          the ground shook furiously, machines began activating
          and a bizarre slime began pouring from a complex
          series of pipes that snaked out across the entire inner
          structure.  Pandemonium broke loose, and your tour
          group fled to safer ground.  Your camera caught the
          shadowy figures of two mysterious figures fleeing
          hurriedly from the structure.  You didn't recognize them
          from your tour group.  Could they have something to
          do with this strange and inexplicable occurrence?

             After the video concludes, a news flash, detailing
          the crisis, appears on the screen.  Reports indicate that
          the slime.  The pouring from the Ancient site is highly toxic
          and is killing everything in its path.  The Duke of
          Rhylanor and the Imperial Government have offered a
          half-billion credit reward for anyone who can stop the
          flow of the poisonous slime and save the planet
          Rhylanor from ultimate destruction.

              You call your friends to your hotel suite to show
          them your film.  The female of the introduction shows
          your characters gathered around the monitor.  You issue
          the challenge to your party: to save the planet Rhylanor
          and share the most substantial reward ever offered by
          the Imperium.

              Your adventure begins outside the hotel in the
          Rhylanor Startown.  So begins an amazing journey that
          will carry you through the universe to the secrets of the
          Ancients.  It's up to you and your friends to stop the
          Ancient site and save the planet Rhylanor before it is
          submerged in deadly slime.


                            Character Generation


                              1. Introduction

              MegaTraveller 2.. Quest for  the  Ancients  features  the
         most  sophisticated   and   advanced   character   generation
         system ever developed for a computer role-playing
         adventure.  You  can  decide  a  character's  strengths  and
         weaknesses by choosing a set of basic attributes that
         you wish to  develop.  As  well,  you're  personally  respon-
         sible for enlisting your characters in a variety of  services
         and careers that help develop  their  skills  and  personall-
         ties.

              The  MegaTraveller  2  character  generator  is  simple
         to use, but extremely detailed so that you have the
         power  to  mold  your  characters  into  likenesses  of  your
         choosing.  This  is  extremely  important  in  a  role-playing
         environment  because   your   characters   will   undoubtedly
         grow to mean more to you than just a picture with a name.
         This character  generation  system  lets  you  tailor
         characters who are truly your alter-egos.

              In your spare time, you may want to generate
         characters and add  them  to  your  character  pool.  if  one
         of  your  characters  perishes  during  your  adventure,  you
         can replace him with a  fresh  recruit  from  your  character
         pool (at recruiting centers).  The  stronger  your  character
         pool, the better the chances of finding the type of
         recruit who will best serve your party.  It isn't mandatory
         to generate extra characters; the character pool
         already has several pre-generated characters to choose
         from.

             The character generator also lets you select levels of
         complexity and detail.  You can generate characters
         with advanced careers or basic careers; you can have
         total control over the development process or let the
         computer handle some steps for you.  You can even
         bypass the entire character generation system itself and
         let the computer generate characters for you.  And, for
         those few who want nothing to do with character
         generation, you can immediately get into the game with
         a pregenerated party of characters.  How involved you
         want to get in the character generation process is
         entirely up to you.

             Lastly, the MegaTraveller 2 character generator
         allows you to develop characters for the actual pen-
         and-pencil role-playing game.  Though some skills may
         not be necessary to the computer game, they've been
         left in for those individuals who want to create charac-
         ters for MegaTraveller role-playing.

                          2. Selecting from

             Throughout the character generation process, you
         are asked to select options from lists shown on the
         screen.  Notice that the first option in a list is high-
         lighted, and that by scrolling through lists, the highlight
         moves from option to option.  You can scroll through
         the lists with the Up and Down Arrow keys on the
         keyboard, or you can use a joystick or a mouse (your
         Technical Supplement provides detailed instructions).
         Press the <Enter> key, left mouse button or joystick fire
         button to make a selection from a list.  To abort select-
         ing, press the <Escape> key, the right mouse button or
         button 2 on the joystick.

            Additionally, you can choose a list option by
         pressing the first letter of its name on the keyboard.  If
         there is more than one choice starting with the same
         letter, repeatedly strike that letter on the keyboard until
         the choice you want is highlighted, then press the
         <Enter> key to make the selection.  The <Home> and
         <End> keys take you to the beginning and end of the
         list respectively.

            In the description of the lists, all possible selections
         are described.  The only selections that will appear on
         the screen, however, are the relevant ones.  For ex-
         ample, the Add To Party selection will not appear if
         there is no one in the character pool or if the party
         already contains five characters.

                           3. Opening Menu

            The Opening Menu in the character generation
         program allows you to:

         1. Start New Game
             Lets you create characters, define a party and begin
             a new game from the beginning.

         2. Continue Old Game
             Lets you restore a previously saved game.

         3. Get Started Quick
             Immediately thrusts you into the game with a party
             of pregenerated characters.

         4. Return to DOS
             Lets you exit the program and return to DOS.

                            4. New Game Menu

              After you've selected option 1, Start New Game,
         from the opening menu, the New Game menu offers
         the following choices:

         1. Use My Party Disk
             Lets you develop characters for your  party  disk  after
             you've created one (see option 2, next).

         2. Create Party Disk
             Lets you create a party disk - for characters to be
             saved to - when you initially  play  the  game  for  the
             first time.  Note: it's not necessary to create a party
             disk if you plan to use default char-acters (see  option
             3, next).

         3. Use Default Characters
             Provides a pool  of  pregenerated  characters  that  you
             can create a party with.  Note: you cannot save
             characters that you create in the default pool.

         4. Use Current Pool
             This option is simply a stop-gap measure in case
             you've created characters and forgot to save them.

                         5. Main Party Disk Menu

              After you've selected Option I - Use My Party
           Disk - from the Start New Game Menu, the Main Party
           Disk Menu appears.  The options are:

          1. Create New Character
             Lets you begin the character generation process.

          2. Save Character Pool
             Allows you to save the current character pool with
             any additions that you may have just then added.

          3. Options
             Permits you to set levels of complexity and detail.
             After this option is selected you can scroll through
             the options and make changes.  When Options is
             selected, a list appears saying:

                o Basic Characters
                o Less control
                o Manual Character Generation
                o Casual.

                To change these settings, scroll through the list
                until the option you wish to change is highlighted
                and press the <Enter> key (or mouse or joystick
                button).  The option will automatically change to
                the opposite effect.

             The various options are:

             A) Basic Characters or Advanced Characters
                Lets you develop basic characters or characters
                with advanced careers.  Note: there is no reason
                to develop characters with advanced careers for
                the computer game.  Advanced careers are strictly
                for those who wish to develop characters for use
                in the pen-and-pencil role-playing game.

             B) Less Control or More Control
                Less Control lets the computer make random
                selections of skills for your characters when
                certain skill  tables  appear.  More  Control permits
                you to select each specific skill that your  charac-
                ter  possesses.  The  computer  makes   no   random
                selections.  Players who wish to adhere to the
                actual MegaTraveller rules should set  this  option
                for Less Control.

            C) Manual Character Generation or Computer
                Generates Character
                Lets you generate characters manually, or lets the
                computer develop the characters randomly.

            D) Casual or Hasty
                Casual features all of the fading and blinking
                effects, and hasty. bypasses fades and  blinks  for
                faster character generation.

         4. Delete Character From Pool
            Lets you to scroll  through  your  character  pool  and
            remove a specific character.

         5. View Character
            Permits  you  to  view  a  previously  created  character.
            Select a character from the pool list to view his
            inf-ormation sheet, picture, attributes, UPP, skills,
            credits and homeworld.

         6. Print Character
            Lets you print out a character's skills and  attributes
            for use in the pen-and-pencil, version of
            Mega Traveller or for your reference during game
            play.

            Add to Party
            Allows you to select characters from the character
            pool for your party of five.  You must initially begin
            the adventure with five characters.  After you've
            selected a character for the party, he is removed
            from the pool list and placed in the party.  When
            you've selected a party, you are asked if you wish to
            save the party before beginning the game.

         8. Play Game
            Allows you to begin the game after you've created  a
            party of characters.

         9. Remove from Party
            Lets you remove an individual from a party of
            characters.

                      6. Creating New Characters

             When you select option 1  -  Create  New  Character
         - from the Main Party Disk Menu,  you  are  asked  what
         type of character you want to develop: Human or
         Vargr.  There are differences between the two species,
         but some Vargr skills may prove very useful to your
         party.



                                   Vargrs

            The Vargrs are  an  intelligent  race  resulting
          from  genetic manipulation  of  Terran  canines.
          Vargrs  are  bipedal  carnivores  with  hands  like
          those  of   humans.   Many other characteristics vary
          between  Vargrs  of   different   ethnic    groups.
          Tail,  fur  color  and  muzzle  length,  for   in-
          stance, all  vary  widely  among   individuals.   Eye
          color  and  posture   also  differ significantly.

            Vargrs  have  the  same  senses  as  humans,   but   their
          sensory faculties are typically more acute.  The  senses  of
          smell, hearing and sight are sharper.

                        Differences between Vargr
                    and Human Character Generation

             Although  physical  differences  -   increased   dexterity
           and  reduced  strength   and   endurance   -   are   immedi-
           ately   apparent,   the   greatest   change   to   character
           generation  for  Vargrs  entails  their  emphasis  on   Cha-
           risma.  Charisma  is  the  Vargrs'  sixth  basic  attribute,
           whereas  'Social  Standing  is  Humans'   sixth   attribute.
           Charisma reflects  how  well  respected  a  Vargr  is,  com-
           pared to other VARGRS.

             Also, because of the vacillating nature of  this  race,  a
           Vargr character is free to re-enlist in a new service  after
           he  has  mustered  out  of  the  service  he  most  recently
           served in.  Human characters do not enjoy this benefit.

               After you select either Human or Vargr, you are
           asked if you want the character to be male or female.
           After this selection is made, a set of basic attributes
           appear on a bar graph.  The bar graph shows the
           median level and the particular average for that set of
           attributes.  Attributes range from 1 to 15 for both Hu-
           mans and VARGRS, with two exceptions for VARGRS: a
           Vargr's charisma has no limit, and a Vargr's dexterity
           level can reach 16.  The initial values generally range
           from 2-12, with some exceptions for VARGRS.  The basic
           attributes are:

            Strength
              Strength (STR) refers to the character's muscular
            power.  The higher a character's strength, the more
            effective physical tasks can be accomplished-
            Strength also deten-nines the amount of weight a
            character can carry without being encumbered and
            slowed.  Most of the tasks requiring physical
            strength are combat related.

            Dexterity
              Dexterity (DEX) involves a character's physical
            coordination or ability to perform detailed tasks.  A
            character with a high dexterity rating is more likely
            to complete actions in a timely manner than a
            character with a low dexterity rating.

            Endurance
              Endurance (END) refers to a character's physical
            stamina and ability to continue performing demand-
            ing activities over an extended period.  A character's
            endurance is critical in combat.  The higher the
            endurance level, the more damage a character can
            withstand. Endurance also affects a  character's  rate
            of oxygen  consumption  when  he  is  travelling  on
            the  surface  of  a  non-atmospheric  world  (vacuum
            world) or any  environment  requiring  the  use  of
            oxygen apparatus.

          Intelligence
            Intelligence (INT) is a  char-acter's  knowledge  and
          ability to apply logic or arrive at  competent  conclu-
          sions.  Intelligence also helps determ-ine how a
          character responds when caged upon to solve
          problems.  Intelligence  helps  determine  the  number
          of skills a character can obtain  during  character
          generation.

          Education
            Education (EDU)  represents  the  amount of formal
          and informal training a character has received.
          Along with intelligence,  a  character's  education
          plays an integral part in  determining  the  number  of
          skills a character can learn and use at  any  one  time.
          The higher an individual's  education  rating,  the
          more skills he can acquire  and  apply  in  various
          situations.

          Social Standing (for Humans)
            Social Standing (SCC) signifies a character's  status
          in society.  This social hierarchy is often  based  on
          career  rank,  wealth,  achievement  and  the  standing
          of the character's family. individuals with  a  high
          social standing are  accustomed  to  a  much  higher
          standard of living, and in most cases aren't skilled at
          negotiating  and  bargaining.  Also,  social   standing
          affects the way an individual is treated by  others.

         Charisma (for VARGRS)
            The VARGRS are naturally gregarious; they desire
          prominence  among  their  peers.   The   Charisma   skill
          (CHA)  helps  VARGRS  reach  their  main  goal:  prestige
          and acceptance within their communities.  Charisma
          skills affect  a  character's  eloquence.  High  charisma
          also allows a character to be  a  better  bargainer,
          trader, interviewer  and  linguist.  Because  the  Vargr
          work so diligently at being accepted, they are
          usually very likeable individuals who command
          respect and friendship.  Initial charisma ranges from
          1 to 6.

              To the left of the attributes bar graph is a list  of
          careers that the character  would  be  best  suited  for,
          based  on  the  particular  attributes  shown.  The  most
          highly recommended career is highlighted in the list.

              If you want to develop a character based on the
          attributes shown,  move  the  highlight  to  Yes.  After  Yes
          is selected, you will notice the character information
          area in the top right hand comer of the screen.  If you
          select No, a new set of attributes appears.


                        Universal Personality Profile

               At the top is the character's Universal Personality
           Profile (UPP).  The  UPP  represents  the  character's  basic
           attributes in this order:  STR,  DEX,  END,  INT,  EDU,  SOC
           for  Humans  /  CHA  for  Vargr.  The  UPP   uses   hexadeci-
           mal numbers from 1 to 15  (16  for  Vargr  DEX),  with  1  as
           the lowest rating.  Numbers from 10 to 15 are repre-
           sented by letters (A represents 10, F represents 15).

               Next is a list of the  player's  basic  attribute  numbers
           in common Arabic numerals.

               Also, the current Term that  the  character  is  serving
           is displayed with the  character's  Age,  Sex,  species  type
           (Human  or  Vargr)  and  Credits  (money).  The   character's
           Hits Value is also  listed.  The  Hits  Value  -  the  amount
           of damage a character can endure before becoming
           unconscious or  being  killed  -  is  based  on  the  sum  of
           the  character's  STR,  END  and  DEX  scores.   The   number
           before the slash is the number of hits required to
           render  the  character  unconscious;  the  number  after  the
           slash is the number of additional hits required to kin
           the character.

               Next  is  the  character's   Service,   Rank,   Homeworld
           and any Items that the character acquired during the
           mustering out process of character generation.

               After you select a set of attributes, you  are  asked  to
           select  a  homeworld.  The  homeworld  effects  the   careers
           a character can enlist in, as well as the initial  skills  the
           character starts out with.  You can select:

               * Named World
               * Detailed World
               * Random World
               * Same as Last Time.

          A) Named World
             Lets you select a world from one of the four
             subsectors in the game (Rhylanor, Regina, Lanth
             or Aramis).  After you select a subsector, a list of
             worlds in that area is displayed with the Universal
             World Profile (UWT) for each planet.

             The UWP refers to the physical characteristics of a
             world.  Like the UPP, ah numbers are hexadeci-
             mal.  In a hexadecimal system, the numbers 10
             through 15 are represented by the letters A
             through F, respectively. The numbers in the UWP
             refer to, in order, Starport, Size, Atmosphere,
             Hydrosphere, Population, Government, Law Level
             and Tech Level, Please refer to the charts in the
             Handy Reference for Game Play section to find
             a detailed explanation of what each number in
             the UWP represents.

             Scroll through the list of worlds to select the
             homeworld of your choice.

          B) Detailed World
             Allows you to create your homeworld by typing
             in a UWP.  You are also asked to name the
             homeworld you have created.

          C) Random World
             Selects a random homeworld from one of the
             four subsectors for your character.

          D) Same as Last Time
             Lets you pick the same homeworld as you
             selected for your last character.



                   7. Selecting a Service or Career

            After  a  homeworld  for  your  character  is   selected,
       you are asked to  select  a  service  or  career  for  him/her
       from a list on the screen.  The  service  lists  are  based  on
       the  character's  attributes   and   his/her   homeworld.   You
       may  have  noticed   that   the   recommended   careers   that
       appeared earlier are not on this list.  If this happens  it  is
       because the homeworld of your character does not
       offer that service  or  career  type.  For  example,  a  sailor
       can't come from  a  world  with  little  or  no  water.  After
       you select a service or career, you will learn if your
       character is accepted or rejected. if your character is
       rejected, you will be submitted to a military draft.

            The  various  services  -  for  Humans   and   VARGRS   -
       are:

       Human Careers

         * Army
              An Army officer is a member of the planetary
              armed  fighting  forces.  Soldiers  deal   with   world
              surface actions, baffles, and campaigns.  They may
              also serve  as  mercenaries  for  hire.  An-ny  charac-
              tears must come from  a  world  with  a  tech  code  of
              Pre-Stellar+.

           Barbarian
              A rugged individual from a primitive world.
              Barbarians  are  accustomed   to   hardship   and   are
              well  versed  in  wilderness  and  survival  situations.
              Barbarians  must  come  from  a  world  with   a   tech
              code of Pre-ind

           Belter
              An  individual  who   prospects   and   mines   asteroid
              belts in search of mineral deposits, artifacts, or
              salvageable materials.  Being a belter is a difficult
              and dangerous career,  calling  for  individuals  who
              are highly self-reliant,  competent  and  determined.
              Belters must come  from  a  world  with  a  tech-code
              of Early Stellar+.

           Bureaucrat
              An individual in a government organization,  or  in
              a  management  or  executive  capacity.   Bureaucrats
              are often well versed in the administrative and
              economic  aspects  of  commerce.   Bureaucrats   must
              come from a world with a population of Mod
              Pop+ and a law code of Low Law+.  Bureaucrats
              may not voluntarily muster out or retire.

           Diplomat
              A member of  the  foreign  service  of  a  government.
              Diplomats may gain valuable interpersonal
              abilities and academic knowledge during their
              careers.  Diplomats  must  come  from  a  world  with
              a tech code of Indust+ and a law code of Low
              Law+.

           Doctor
              A trained individual with a medical practice.
              Doctors know  and  understand  the  art  and  science
              of medical  diagnosis  and  treatment.  Doctors  must
              come from a world with a tech code of Indust+.

           Flyer
              A member of the Close Orbit and Airspace
              Control Command (the Air Force) of a world.
              Flyers patrol  the  world  from  the  atmosphere  and
              from orbit, monitor traffic to and  from the  world,
              and protect the world from hostile spacecraft.
   
              Flyers must come from a world with a tech code
              of Indust+, a population of Mod Pop+, and an
              atmosphere of Thin+

          Hunter
              An individual who tracks and hunts animals for
              sport or profit.  Hunters  often  become  knowledge-
              able about the less urban aspects of alien worlds.
              Hunters can come from any world with an
              atmosphere of Thin+.

           Law Enforcer
              A member of the law enforcement branch of a
              world's government.  Law  enforcers  typically  have
              good investigative skills, and they tend to be
              familiar with the unsavory aspects of society.  Law
              enforcers must come from a world with a tech
              code of indust.+.

          * Marines
              Members of the armed fighting forces carried
              aboard starships.  Marines deal with piracy and
              boarding actions in space, defend the starports
              and bases belonging to the Navy, and supple-
              ment other ground forces.  Marines must come
              from a world with a tech code of Pre-Stellar+.

          * Merchant
              An individual  engaged  in  commercial  enterprises.
              Merchants may crew the ships of  the  large  trading
              corporations, or they may work for the indepen-
              dent free traders that carry chance cargos and
              passengers between worlds.  Merchants can
              engage in every activity from plodding and
              conventional commerce to  quasi-legal  actions  and
              outright violations of the law (such as  smuggling).
              Merchants must come from a world with a tech
              code of Early Stellar+.

          * Navy
              This term refers to members of the interstellar
              space Navy, which has taken on the duty of
              patrolling space between the stars.  The Navy has
              the responsibility of protecting society from
              lawless elements in the interstellar trade channels.
              The Navy also serves to protect society from
              foreign powers.  Navy characters must come from
              a world that has a tech code of Pre-Stellar+.

           Noble
              A noble is a member of society's upper class.
              Nobles typically perform few consistent functions
              throughout their lives.  Nobles most often have
              large amounts of ready money available to spend,
              or they may possess useful influence in high
              places.  Nobles have no homeworld skill limita-
              tions, but must have a SOC level of 10+.

           Pirate
              An individual crew member of an interplanetary
              or interstellar vessel who makes a living attacking,
              hijacking or plundering commerce.  Pirates tend to
              be rugged individuals who depend heavily on
              their cunning and skill, and a degree of luck, to
              net their livelihood.  Pirates must come from a
              world with a tech code of Early Stellar+.

           Rogue
              A member of the criminal element.  Rogues, as a
              matter of course, are familiar with the rougher
              and more illegal methods of accomplishing tasks.
              Rogues tend to be good at circumventing the law,
              which, unfortunately, also makes them somewhat
              likely to be wanted criminals on one or more
              worlds, Rogues must come from a world with a
              tech code of Indust.+.

           Sailor
               A member of the Nautical Force Command (the
               wet navy) of a world.  Sailors patrol a worlds
               hydrosphere, monitor traffic upon it, and protect
               those travelling the seaways from being preyed
               upon by lawless elements.  Sailors must come
               from a world with a hydrographics of Wet+.

           Scientist
               An individual who has been trained in the tech-
               nological or research sciences.  Scientists conduct
               scientific investigations into materials, situations
               and phenomena.  Scientists must come from a
               world with a tech code of Pre-Stellar+.

         * Scout
               A member of the exploratory service.  Scouts
               spend a large portion of their time exploring new
               areas, mapping and surveying known or newly
               discovered areas, and maintaining the communi-
               cations ships that carry important information and
               messages between the many worlds of the
               galaxy.  Scouts must come from a world with a
               tech code of Early Stellar+.

             * The asterisk denotes careers for which advanced
         careers can be developed for use in the pen-and-pencil
         role-playing version of Megatraveller.  Advanced careers
         have no use in the computer game.

         Vargr Careers

                Administrator
                   A business individual who is well versed in the
                   organizational and economic aspects of com-
                   merce.  An administrator must come from a world
                   with a population of Mod Pop+ and a law code
                   Of LOW law+.

                Aristocrat
                   An influential individual with a relatively high
                   charisma.  An aristocrat often has large amounts of
                   ready cash, or may have useful influence with
                   those in power.  An aristocrat character has no
                   homeworld skill limitations, but must have a
                   Charisma level of 10+.

                Barbarian
                   Same as Human barbarian.

                Belter
                   Same as Human belter.

                Corsair
                   A member of an independent armed fighting
                   band including both space transport and ground
                   troops.  A corsair band operates as bands of
                   pirates and mercenaries.  They sometimes find
                   temporary employment with governments, but
                   they seldom possess a permanent home.  A corsair
                   must come from a world with an Early Stellar+
                   tech code.

                Doctor
                   Same as Human doctor.

            Emissary
               An individual bargainer or arbitrator employed by
               a Vargr government or other concern.  The
               fragmentary nature of Vargr society insures a
               need for intermediaries who can help resolve
               disputes.  Such individuals must come from a
               world with an industrial+ tech code and a Low+
               law level.

            Explorer
               An individual who spends a large part of his time
               exploring other star systems and worlds, often as
               a part of an organized team.  An explorer must
               come from a world with a tech code of Early
               Stellar+.

            Hunter
               Same as Human hunter.

            Law Enforcer
               Same as Human law enforcer.

            Leader
               A charismatic individual in a management or
               executive capacity within a Vargr government,
               organization or group.  A leader has useful influ-
               ence, interpersonal abilities and stature among
               other Vargr.  A leader must come from a world
               with a tech code of Indust+.

            Loner
               A self-reliant Vargr who works alone.  A loner
               may be an independent adventurer or may
               perform some other function.  A loner must come
               from an Early Stellar+ world.

          Merchant
              Same as Human merchant.

          Mitia
              A member of a local armed fighting force.  A
              member of the militia deals with minor actions
              planetary surfaces, large baffles and extended
              campaigns.  Some ex-militia soldiers go on t
              mercenary work.  A militia character must come
              from a world with a Pre-Stellar+ tech code.

          Navy
              Same as Human navy.

          Raider
              A member of a local armed fighting force carried
              aboard starships.  A raider fights corsair pirates by
              performing boarding actions in space, defends
              starports and local navy bases, and supplements
              soldier ground forces.  A raider character must
              come from a world with a Pre-Stellar+ tech code.

          Rogue
              Same as Human rogue.

          Scientist
              Same as Human scientist.

            Please refer to the LTWP explanations in the
        Handy Reference for Game Play section to deter-
        mine if your character's homeworld fits the criteria for a
        certain career.



                              8. Assigning Skills

               The MegaTraveller 2 character generator allows a
           character to gain many skills.  Skills  are  the  most  impor-
           tant part of a character because they determine the
           probability of performing a task or action.  Some skills
           are task-specific, but many skills can be applied to a
           variety of situations.  Each skill begins at  zero,  represent-
           ing an untrained basic working knowledge.  As skills
           increase,  the  corresponding  number  also   increases.   The
           greater the skill level, the more successful a character
           will be when attempting a related  task.  The  skill level  is
           always displayed after the name of the specific skill.

               Example: Navigation 2 indicates that the character
           has a skill level of 2 in Navigation.


                           Skills: Basic and Cascade

               There are two categories of skills  in  Megatraveller.
           basic skills and cascade skills.  Basic skills pertain  to  the
           general ability of a character to perform a certain task.
           Cascade skills are a general category and offer the
           character an opportunity  to  gain  a  specialized  skill  The
           following are examples of both types of skills.

               Basic Skill: Bribery

               Cascade Skill: Exploratory (you can pick from:)
                                       Pilot
                                       Sensor Ops
                                       Survey
                                       Survival
                                       Vacc Suit
                                       Vehicle.

              After your character is enlisted in a service, skill
          development begins.  After a term is successfully com-
          pleted (a term lasts four years), a character can select a
          specific number of skills.  The number of skills that you
          can select after a term is related to the quality of the
          service performed during that term; commissions,
          promotions and special duty assignments are all re-
          warded with extra skills.  If the character receives
          acclamations that will be rewarded with extra skills,
          you are notified on the screen.

              The maximum number of skills that a character can
          possess at one time is determined by the sum of the
          character's INT and EDU attributes: INT + EDU
          maximum # of skills.

              You will have several opportunities during the
          remainder of the character generation process to
          increase many basic attribute scores.  However, once
          the character generation process is completed, a
          character's abilities are, for the most part, set.  Some
          skills can be increased by repeated use of the skill, by
          training at a starport facility (which is expensive and
          time consuming), or through contact with an NPC (non-
          player character).

              You are likely to enjoy MegaTraveller 2 more if you
          create characters with differing characteristics and
          career backgrounds.  This allows you a greater likeli-
          hood of overcoming the many varied obstacles the
          game presents.

              Although there are 135 total skills in the character
          generator, not all of them are necessary for this com-
          puter game.  The non-essential skills have been left in
          the character generator for three reasons.  First, the skill
          system in the character generator is the basis for the
          pen-and-pencil role-playing version of MegaTraveller.
          Some skills are not necessary to solve the computer
          adventure, but they were left in for completeness.
          Second, the non-essential skills were also kept for those
          who wish to develop characters for Traveller role-
          playing adventures.  This compatibility would not exist
          if skills were eliminated for the sake of the computer
          game.  Third, some skills that are not necessary in the
          MegaTraveller 2 computer game may come in handy
          for future Mega Traveller computer adventures.  This is
          useful if you are planning to use the same characters in
          future MegaTraveller computer games.

              Following is a list of the skits that are used in this
          computer game, A detailed description of each of these
          skills and where they best apply can be found in the
          Handy Reference for Game Play section.



              Skills that can he used to Complete MegaTraveller 2

           Academic (Cascade)                 Exploratory (Cascade)
              Admin                              Pilot
              History                            Sensor Ops
              linguistics                        Survey
              Persuasion                         Vacc Suit
              Science                            Vehicle
              +1 Education                    Forensic
           Admin                              Forgery
           Advanced combat rifle              Fusion gun
           Artisan                            Gambling
           Assault rifle                      Gauss rifle
           ATV                                Grav vehicle
           Auto rifle                         Grenadelauncher
           Battle dress                       Gun combat (Cascade)
           Blade combat (Cascade)                Energy Weapons
              Large Blade                        Handgun
              Small Blade                        laser weapons
           Body pistol                           Rifleman
           Brawling                              Sub-machine gun
           Bribery                            Gunnery (Cascade)
           Broadsword                            Turret Weapons
           Broker                             Hand combat (Cascade)
           Carbine                               Blade Combat
           Carousing                             Brawling
           Combat rifleman                       +1 Endurance
           Communications                        + 1 Strength
           Computer                           Handgun
           Dagger                             Heavy Weapons
           Demolitions                        History
           Disguise                           Inborn (Cascade)
           Economic (Cascade)                    Artisan
              Admin                              Carousing
              Broker                             Instruction
              Legal                              jack-Of-All-Trades
              Trader                             Leader
           Electronics                        Interpersonal (Cascade)
           Energy Weapons                        Admin
           Engineering                           Interview
           Environ (Cascade)                     Liason
              Stealth                         Interrogation
                                              Interview
                                              Intrusion
            jack-of-all-trades                    Space combat(Cascade)
            Large blade                           Gunnery
            Laser pistol                          Sensor Ops
            Laser rifle                           Tactics
            Laser weapons                         Space tech (Cascade)
            Leader                                 Communications
            Legal                                  Computer
            Liaison                                Engineering
            light assault gun                      Vacc Suit
            linguistics                         Special combat(Cascade)
            Mechanical                             Battle Dress
            Medical                                Combat Rifleman
            Mental (Cascade)                       Demolition
                +1 Intelligence                    Heavy Weapons
                +1 Education                       Stealth
            Naval architect                        Zero-G Environ
            Navigation                          Stealth
            Persuasion                          Streetwise
            Physical (Cascade)                  Sub-machine gun
                +1 Dexterity                    Survey
                +1 Endurance                    Sword
                + 1 Strength                    Tactics
            Pilot                               Technical (Cascade)
            Pistol                                 Communications (Commo)
            Plasma      gun                        Computer
            Recruiting                             Electronics
            Revolver                               Sensor Ops
            Rifle                               Trader
            Rifleman                            Turret Weapons
            Science (Cascade)                   Vacc suit
                Medical                         Vehicle (Cascade)
            Senor       ops                        Grav Vehicle
            Ship's     boat                        Ship's Boat
            Small     blade                     Vice (Cascade)
            Snub     pistol                        Bribery
            Space (Cascade)                        Disguise
                Engineering                        Forgery
                Navigation                         Gambling
                Pilot                              Intrusion
                Sensor Ops                         Streetwise
                Ship's Boat                     Zero-G environ
                Vacc   Suit

          Skills NOT needed to complete MegaTraveller 2


          Aircraft                     Cutlass
          Animal handling              Early firearms
          Archaic weapons              Equestrian
          Autocannon                   Field artillery
          Axe                          Fleet tactics
          Battle axe                   Foil
          Bayonet                      Forward observer
          Biology                      Genetics
          Blowgun                      Grav belt
          Bola                         Gravities
          Boomerang                    Guard/hunting beasts
          Bow                          Halberd
          Chemistrystry                     Hand axe
          Combat engineering           Helicopter
          Crossbow                     Herding
          Cudgel                       High-energy weapons
          Hovercraft                   Prop-driven aircraft
          Hunting                      Prospecting
          Instruction                  Recon
          jet-propelled aircraft       Robotops
          Large watercraft              Robotics
          Lighter-than-air craft       Screens
          Machine gun                  Ship tactics
          Mass drivers                 Sling
          Meson guns                   Small watercraft
          Mortars and howitzers        Spear
          Neural pistol                Spinal weapons
          Neural &le                   Steward
          Neural weapons               Survival
          Physics                      Tracked vehicle
          Pike                         VRF gauss gun
          Polearm                      Wheeled Vehicle


                 Characters are given a set of default skills based on
            the career in which they are enlisted.  For example,
            most military services have default skills for certain
            weapons, since weapons training is initially taught to all
            soldiers.

                            9. Advanced Skill Tables

                 When a human character's edution (EDU) at-
             tribute is 8 or greater, the character can choose skills
             from an Advanced Education Table (AET).  The AET
             offers specialized skills that aren't available to less
             educated individuals.

                 Similarly, Vargr characters with a charisma (CHA)
             attribute of 8 or greater can benefit by selecting skins
             from a High Charisma Table (HCT-0.  The HCT offers
             unique charisma skills that will improve a Vargr's
             interpersonal communications.

                             10. Mustering Out

              There comes a time when  a  character's  career  ends,
          whether by force or by personal choice.  At that  point,  a
          character can take his valuable skills and training and
          set out to brave the Traveller universe.

              After a term of service is successfully completed, a
          character can either re-enlist or muster  out.  Sometimes,
          a character may be forced to muster out due to poor
          performance or an injury; at other times a character
          may be forced to stay in a service for an additional
          term.

              Only Vargr characters can re-enlist in a  new  service
          after they've mustered out of a previous one.

                When a character  musters  out,  he  receives  benefits
           for his services.  The benefits come from one of two
           categories: the cash table or the benefits table.  A
           character gets  one  choice  from  these  tables  for  every
           term of service, and an additional choice is  given  for
           every  two  promotions  or  acclamations.  For  example,   if
           a character served five terms in the army, and was
           promoted to  the  rank  of  General  (rank  6),  e  would
           receive five benefits for the  number  of  terms  served,
           and an  additional  three  benefits  for  moving  through the
           ranks, for a total of eight benefits.

                A character cannot draw from the cash table more
           than three times.  Benefits vary, depending on the
           career that your character has been in.  Here is a list of
           every benefit that is offered in the mustering out
           process, but remember that not  all  these  benefits  are
           offered for every career.

                Weapons
                  The  character  can  select   weapons.   The   weapons
                that the character can use most effectively are
                highlighted,

                Passages (Low, Middle and High)
                  Passages are tickets for interplanetary travel if  you
                dont own a ship.  High Passage is a first  class  ticket
                to travel aboard a starship.  You have extensive
                cargo space and service from a ship's steward.
                Middle Passage is a coach class ticket, where you
                have less cargo  space  and  no  steward  service.  With
                a Low Passage ticket, you  are  frozen  for  the  journey
                and stored in the cargo bay  until  you arrive at  your
                destination.
                
                 TAS Membership
                   The Traveller's Aid Society offers free access to
                 information about worlds or systems to its mem-
                 bers.  At times, the information is crucial and can
                 benefit travellers greatly.

                 Forensic Kit
                   A kit that helps a character uncover evidence at a
                 site or a scene of a crime.

                 Medical Instruments
                   A medical kit that can be used for first-aid pur-
                 poses.

                 Hand Computer
                   A small, portable computer for calculations.

                 Miscellaneous Trinkets
                   A gold watch, letter of marque and service
                 medallion are symbols of long and devoted service.

                 Ships
                   Some services reward characters with a scout ship
                 or a trader when they muster out.  If you receive the
                 Starship benefit, you have the choice of selecting a
                 scout ship or a trader.

                               11. Retirement Pay

                 The total number of terms that a character serves in
             the military determines the amount of credits he re-
             ceives as yearly retirement pay.  A character becomes
             eligible for retirement pay after five terms of military
             service.  After leaving the military, eligible characters
             receive 2000 Imperial credits for each term of service.

                Retirement pay is issued monthly, and is automati-
             cally deposited into your character's account.

                                    12. Aging

                 For each term spent in the service, a character ages
              four years.  As a character grows older, the physical
              burdens of strenuous careers begin to take their toll.  A
              character's STR, END and DEX abilities decrease with
              age.  At a much later age, a character's INT ability also
              slowly decreases.  A character may even die of old age
              if you continue to re-enlist him in a service.  Your
              doctor will recommend that your character leave the
              service when old age can end his life.

                 13. Naming a Character and Selecting a Face

                 After your character is fully developed, you are
              asked to give him/her a name.  There is a special
              keypress that will name the character for you.  Please
              see the Technical Supplement that came packaged with
              your game for the Create Name for Character Key.  As
              well, you can select a face for him/her from the pool of
              character faces.  There is an ample number of faces -
              male and female, Human and Vargr - to select from.

                     14. Choosing from a Character Pool

                 MegaTraveller 2 gives you the option of choosing
              pregenerated characters if you don't want to go
              through the character generation procedure,  or  if  you
              want to become familiar with the rest of the game
              before generating your characters.

                  In addition, you can save characters in the character
              pool, If one of your original characters is killed, you
              can recruit new members for your party in various
              cities.  New characters that are recruited will come
              directly from your character pool, so you  may  want  to
              develop a wide range of  characters  with  diverse  skills
              and backgrounds.

                  After you have selected a party from  the  character
              pool, you are asked what character you want to control
              as the leader.  The character that you select will be  the
              leader of your adventure.  Other characters  will  report
              directly to your leader.

                           Generation Summary

 1. Select whether the character is Human or Vargr, male or female.
 2. A set of basic attributes is chosen for the character.  The attributes
    can be recalculated until a desired set is displayed.
 3. Select a homeworld for the character.
 4. Select a career or service for your character.  Default skills for that
    career are added to the character's list of basic skills.
 5. You are told whether the character received any commissions, promotions
    or acclamations for the term being served.  Based upon this information,
    the character is given an appropriate number of selections from the
    skill tables.
 6. If a character has more skills than the sum of his intelligence (INT) and
    education (EDU) attribute scores, he must edit his skill fists.  This
    occurs as skills are added.
 7. After a term is served, the character can re-enlist or muster out; the
    character may also be forced to muster out or continue for another term.
 8. When a character leaves a career he is permitted to make selections from
    the cash or benefits table.  No more than three choices can be made from
    the cash table.
 9. Once a character is fully developed, you must name him/her and select a
    face for the character. You can press a key to generate a name immediately
    - see Technical Supplement.
10. After a party of characters is comprised,you must pick the lead character.


                            On the Ground

                           1. Introduction

         Throughout your adventures in the Spinward
     Marches, you have the opportunity to visit other
     worlds.  Some  of  these  planets  contain  abundant   green
     vegetation and high populations, while others have
     harsh environments such  as  scorching  deserts,  glacial
     terrain  or  no  atmosphere.  Refer  to  the  Handy   Refer-
     ence for Game  Play  section  for  a  look  at  each  world.

         You  will  also  encounter  many  unique   individuals
     on your journey.  Some of the people you encounter are
     barbaric  and  uncivilized,  while  others  are  members   of
     sophisticated, high-tech  societies.  As  you  guide  your
     group of travellers you will  meet  new  friends  willing  to
     help you along the way; some will offer ways to
     acquire more Imperial  credits;  others  will  share  impor-
     tant information to further  the  plot.  At  times,  an  indi-
     vidual may ask you to perform a task, for which he
     promises a reward.

         However, not everyone in the Mega Traveller
     universe is friendly.  There are villainous characters  in
     the game, so be on constant guard.  Some of these
     individuals include felonious interstellar  pirates,  merce-
     naries and  hit  men.  Although  combat  is  by  no  means
     the main  emphasis  of  the  game,  there  are  times  when,
     as a last resort, you are forced to stand up and fight.

         While exploring planetary  surfaces,  all  action  takes
     place  on  three  game  screens:  the  Overhead  Interface
     Screen, the Inside  Locations  Screens  (stores,  casinos,
     etc.) and the Character Sheets.



         2. The Overhead Interface Screen

    All of the ground exploration and combat action takes place on the
    Overhead Interface Screen.

     A) Character Information
       The top portion of the screen consists of five
     blocks which represent the character's in your party.
     If your party consists of less than five characters,
     some character blocks remain empty.  The names  of
     the five characters appear in different colors over
     their pictures.  The characters are represented on the overhead
     map by icons in the same colors as their names.
     When  you  equip  your characters with protective armor and headgear,
     the pictures of the characters change; the armor or
     headgear is actually placed on the characters.
     There are two bars next to each character picture.
     The first bar (the blue bar) represents the
     character's oxygen supply.  As oxygen is consumed,
     the blue bar decreases.  The second bar (the red
     bar) corresponds to the character's life force (hits
     value). when physical damage is suffered, the bar
     decreases accordingly.  The life force bar is inter-
     sected by a white line.  When the bar is reduced
     below the white line, the character becomes
     unconscious.  If the bar disappears completely, the
     character dies.

    B) Overhead View Screen
    The overhead view screen consists of a top-down
    representation of the planet that your party is
    exploring.  You can change the perspective of the
    view depending on the level of detail at which you
    want to play the game (see Zooming In and Zoom-
    ing Out).

    During planetary exploration, your party is
    represented by individual icons for each member of
    the party.  The level of detail varies depending on if
    you are zoomed in or zoomed out.  For example,
    when you zoom out to the farthest level, your
    characters are represented by tiny pixels; if you're
    zoomed in closer, your characters are shown in
    more detail.  Each character's icon is represented in
    a color that corresponds to the color of the
    character's name, which appears above the charac-
    ter block at the top of the screen.  Your party can be
    moved in any direction with a keyboard, mouse or
    joystick.

    As you explore cities, you will notice a variety of
    non-player characters (NPCS) moving throughout
    the area.  The NPCs vary in color.  White NPC icons
    are simply citizens who have nothing really to offer
    your party in way of assistance or advice.  Green
    NPCs have something to do with the game,
    whether they pertain to the main scenario or one of
    the many sub-plots.  Red NPCs are characters that
    your party has recognized as hostile and dangerous.
    All important NPCs remain green until your party is
    within visual range of them. it's best to be careful.  If
    your party recognizes an NPC as an enemy, the
    NPC changes in color from green to red.  You must
    respect the law level and the safety of innocent
    citizens.  If you carelessly shoot everyone and
    everything around you, your party will find itself
    drowning in a sea of angry red NPCS, hungry for
    revenge.

    When an important NPC (whether red or green) is encountered
    by your party, and you select the Converse option from
    the Communication Icon (see Icons, below), an overlay window
    appears with the name of the character, a picture of him/her, and a text
    message.


        C) Planet, City, Building or Object Name
         This small window contains the name of the
         planet you are currently exploring.  When you are
         inside a city, the city name appears.  When you
         enter a building, the building name appears, and
         when you are using a special object, its name
         appears.

         D) Terrain, City, Building or Special Object Picture
         This window contains a terrain picture of the
         planet you are exploring.  When you are inside a
         city the view changes and a city picture appears.
         When you enter a building, the building picture
         appears, and when you are using a special object,
         such as a scout survey box or an ancient artifact, a
         picture is shown.

         E) Day Number
         This window displays the day number from the
         time your adventure began.

         F) Ground Icons
         The entire game is controlled with icons.  After an
         icon is selected the icon portion of the screen is
         replaced by options for the icon that you selected.
         The icons are:

           Hand Icon - The Hand icon is used when you come across objects or
                       wish to search an area for objects.  When the
                       Hand icon is selected, the following options appear:

       Drop  -  Lets  you  discard  items   you   no
           longer wish  to  use.  You  are  asked
           which character wants to drop an item.
           After you select a character you will see
           a list of items  on  an  overlay  window.
           Scroll through the list  and  select  the
           item you  wish  to  drop.  You  may  also
           drop items directly  from  a  character's
           sheet (see Character Sheet).

      Take - Lets  you  take  an  item  that  you
           have  discovered  on  the   ground.   You
           are asked which character wants to take
           the item.  Select the  character  from  an
           overlay window and the object will be
           added to his inventory.

      Use  -  You  are  asked   which   character
           wants to use an item.  After  you  select
           the character from an overlay window,
           you must scroll through his list of
           objects and select the item  that  you
           want him to use.  You  may  also  use
           items directly from a  character's  sheet
           (see Character Sheet).

     Search - After this option  is  selected,  one
           of your  characters  will  speak  up  and
           report if there are any  objects  nearby.
           This is especially useful if you are
           staying  the  game  from  the  zoom   out
           position.

     Combat Icon - The Combat icon is used for all battles that your
         party faces on the ground.  All combat is operated from the
         Combat icon.  The combat options that appear are:

         Target - Lets you target an enemy (or
             enemies) with crosshairs.  Yon  are  asked
             to move the crosshairs to the enemy  (or
             enemies) and press  the  <Enter>  Key  (or
             joystick or mouse button).

         Reserve - Lets you select characters that
             you don't want to engage in combat.
             Characters that you reserve will head
             for the nearest cover when the battle
             begins.

         Attack - After  an  enemy  has  been  targeted
             and you have reserved any characters
             you want to keep out of the action,
             select attack to begin a battle.  Combat
             will be based on the  characters  physical
             and weapons skills and the skills and
             weapons  of  their   opponent(s).   Remem-
             ber, your characters must be using the
             weapons that they want to utilize in
             combat.  When a weapon runs out of
             ammunition, it will automatically reload
             if you have ammunition in your inven-
             tory.  If you're out of ammunition, you
             could be a sitting duck.  Refer to the
             Weapons Guide in the Handy Reference
             for  Game  Play  Section  to read
             detailed descriptions  of weapons  and
             their penetration and damage factors.

       React -- When react is on, your characters
           automatically  react when they are taken
           by surprise by firing back  at the
           opponent(s)  shooting  at  them.  When
           React is Off, you have to manually
           target your opponents.

       Flee -- Flee lets your party escape from the
           attack of enemies.  Your characters
           automatically flee to a safe area, away
           from enemy fire.

   Globe Icon - The Globe icon  lets you change the game play perspective,
       identify NPCs and locations that you come across and enter
       and exit vehicles that you rent.  The Globe options are:

       Zoom In- Lets you change the perspective
           from a wider overhead view to a more
           narrow one, thus allowing you to view
           an area in greater detail.  The entire
           game could be played from a zoomed
           in perspective.

       Zoom Out - Changes the perspective from
            a Small view to a wider view, thus
            allowing you to see more of the sur-
            rounding  area  without   actually   having
            to move your party.  This  is  useful  when
            you want to examine an area for
            enemies.  It's much  more  difficult  to  be
            taken  by  surprise  when  you  can  see  a
            vast area around your characters.

                Identify  -  One  of  your  characters  provides
                     a brief description of what is in  front  of
                     your  party.  Obviously,  the   character's
                     intelligence reflects the detail of the
                     description.  Identify is also  useful  when
                     you encounter a green NPC on the
                     map.  By selecting  identify,  one  of  your
                     characters will tell you who  the  NPC  is,
                     so that you don't have to stop every
                     NPC around you.

                Enter Vehicle or  Leave  Vehicle  -  Let's  your
                     party enter a vehicle if they  have  rented
                     one or leave a vehicle if they are
                     returning one, or  getting  out  to  explore
                     an area or  region.  You  must  be  stand-
                     ing on, or next to, the  vehicle  to  enter
                     it.

            Interact Icon - Lets you talk to NPCs in the
                game and lets you change your party leader.  The Interact
                options are:

    Hail - When Hail is selected, one of your
        characters shouts to an NPC.  Depend-
        ing on whether the character is a  friend
        or a foe, the character will either stop or
        run away.  By using the Hail  option,  you
        will not be forced to try to run down
        NPCs, who are constantly moving
        about.

    Converse - When your party is standing
        next to an NPC, and converse is se-
        lected, the NPC speaks to you from an
        overlay window.  A picture of the
        character appears along with his name
        and his text message to your party.

    Give to NPC - When this option is se-
        lected, you are asked what character
        wants to give the NPC an item.  After
        your selection, an  overlay  window  with
        your character's inventory appears.
        Scroll through the list and select the
        item you want to give the NPC.

    Buy from NPC - Lets you buy something,
        an object or information, from an NPC.
        You are asked who will  pay.  Select  one
        of your characters or your party account.
        However, some NPCs will not accept
        credit, so you won't be able to
        pay them from your party account.

    Bribe - Lets you bribe an NPC for informa-
        tion.  After you select bribe, you are
        asked how much you want to offer for
        the bribe.  Select the amount.  Depend-
        ing on your character's  bribery  skill the
        attempt may or may not work.  All
        bribes must be made with cash.

         Threaten - Some characters may be
             unwilling to talk to your party. If you
             think that they are  holding  back  impor-
             tant information, you can  threaten  them
             with this option.  Of course, it helps if
             you  have  a  physically   intimidating
             character with a high strength level.

         Interrogate  -  If  you've   cornered   an   enemy
             NPC  and  you  want  to  discover   his
             motives, the interrogate option is very
             useful, one of your characters must be
             physically intimidating with high
             interrogation and persuasion  skills  if  the
             interrogation is to be successful.

         Change  Leader  -  Let's  you  change   the
             leader of your party to another character.
             
    Game Controls Icon- The Game Controls icon lets
         you handle all game play options.  The
         options are:

         Save - Lets you save a game that you've been playing.

         Restore - Lets you restore a previously saved game.
         
         Quit - Permits you to exit the game and return to DOS.

         Sound - Lets you toggle sound effects and music on and off.

         PAL System - Lets you turn on the PAL override messages on and off.

         Help - Sometimes you may find yourself a
             little confused during the course of your
             adventure.  If you select the Help option,
             one or more of your characters will
             offer some advice about what to do
             next in your adventure.  But remember, ,
             if you don't have an intelligent member
             of your party, the advice will probably
             not amount to much.


                      3.  The Character Sheet

             At any time during the game you can access detailed
             character sheets for each of your characters
             either by clicking on the character's block with the
             mouse or by pressing the F1 through F5 key  (each  key
             represents one of the characters; F1 represents the
             character in the lead position, etc.).

     The character sheet contains the following information:

           A) Character's Picture
           B) Character's Name
           C) Character's Service Symbol (if military)
           D) TAS Symbol (if the character is a  member  of
           the Traveller's Aid Society)
           E) The Weapon the Character is  Currently  Using
           F) The Character's Sex
           G) The Character's Species (Human or Vargr,)
           H) The Character's Life Force Value (Hit Points)
           1) The Character's Credits
           J) The Character's Age
           K) The Character's UPP
           L) The Character's Six Attributes
           M) The Character's Skills List
           N) The Character's Inventory

  There are also four options on the character sheet.
  They are:

      Examine
        Lets you scroll through the inventory list and
      select an object to examine.  The character will
      provide a description of the item you select.  Levels
      of detail for the objects description may vary
      depending on the character's intelligence and skills.

      Exchange
        Exchange allows you to take an object from the
      inventory of one character and add it to the inven-
      tory of another.  Select the object(s) you want to
      exchange.  Next, select Exchange and then desig-
      nate the character to whom you want to give the
      object(s).  Select the character you want to exchange
      with and the object(s) is immediately added to the
      receiving character's inventory.

         Use *
           Lets you scroll through the character's inventory
         list and select an item for him to use.  If you are
         using a weapon, it is displayed next to the
         character's picture.  Other items in use will be
         highlighted in the inventory list.  Remember, how
         well a character uses an item depends on his
         specific skills.

         Drop *
           Lets you drop an item.  Scroll through the
         character's inventory list and select the item that
         you want to drop.

         * These options can also be selected from the Hand
         icon on the main interface screen.

                            4. Vehicles

         There are times when travelling on foot is impos-
     sible, highly dangerous or just too time consuming.  In
     most cases, you can rent a vehicle.  There are two types
     of vehicles to be rented: a tracked ATV (All Terrain
     Vehicle) or a Grav Vehicle (flying hovercraft).

         When you rent a vehicle and select the Enter
     Vehicle option from the Globe icon, your five charac-
     ters will be represented by a single vehicle icon. Move
     the vehicle in the same manner that you would move
     the party.  The vehicle must be returned to the small
     square pavement outside a vehicle rental location.
     When the vehicle is returned and you select the leave
     Vehicle option from the Globe icon, your party will be
     back on foot.

        Please refer to the Handy Reference for Game
     Play section for detailed descriptions of an ATV and a
     Grav Vehicle.

                   5. Life Support Systems

        Some of the worlds that can be explored have a
     breathable atmosphere, very similar to Earth's.  A
     breathable atmosphere eliminates the need for protec-
     tive suits and breathing apparatus.

        Other worlds have a variety of atmospheres which
     will not support human life.  With the invention of
     engineered survival equipment, man can live in these
     harsh environments.

        Vacuums are the most difficult environments to
     survive in.  To enter a vacuum environment, a character
     must have some form of protective suit with proper
     breathing equipment. Failure to wear the proper
     equipment results in a very unpleasant death.  See
     Armor and Protective Suits in the Handy Reference
     for Game Play section.

        Exotic, corrosive or insidious atmospheres also
     require protective suits.  In these atmospheres, it is vital
     to keep track of your characters' oxygen supplies.  A
     lack of attention to oxygen supply will surely lead to
     death.  Don't let your party wander farther than their
     oxygen supplies can carry them.  Oxygen tanks are
     essential objects to purchase in the game.

        The rate at which a character uses his oxygen
     supply is dependent on three factors: 1) the higher a
     character's END the slower the rate of oxygen con-
     sumption, 2) oxygen use increases for all characters
     during combat because of high stress and physical
     exertion, 3) Skill in Vacc Suit (or Battle Dress) reduces
     oxygen consumption.

        Thin  or  tainted  atmospheres  require  a  helmet   or
     respirator with a filter.  If the proper  equipment  is  not
     worn, physical damage is gradually suffered, eventually
     resulting in death.

        Please refer to the Planet lists and the description of
     the  UWP  in  the   Handy   Reference   for   Game   Play
     section to determine  the  atmosphere  of  a  world  that
     you are going to visit.

                        6. Healing injuries

        A character can sustain bodily damage in a number
     of ways.  When a character is injured, it is vital that he
     receive medical attention to heal  the  physical  damage
     sustained.  There are three methods for healing a
     character.  They are:

        A) Medical Kits
          A medical kit in the hands  of  a  medically  skilled
        character  can  stop  an  injury  from  getting  worse.
        Medical kits  are  mainly  used  to  keep  a  character
        alive until you can  get  him  to  a  hospital.  When  a
        medical kit is used up, you  must  replace  it  with  a
        new one.  In  untrained  hands,  using  a  med  kit  can
        actually make things worse, so be sure that the
        person using the kit is medically skilled.

        B) Hospitals
         Hospitals are the best way to fully  heal  a  charac-
        ter, but it is also cosily  and  time  consuming.  Some
        of the uncivilized worlds  in  the  game  do  not  have
        hospitals, so it's best to be careful.

         C) Starship Sick Bay
           Each starship is  equipped  with  a  medical  station.
         If a medically skilled character is in the sick bay,  he
         can heal  injured  characters.  Although  a  character
         may not be able  to  be  completely  healed  until  he
         gets to a hospital, the sick bay can heal a  portion  of
         the damage  and  keep  the  injured  character  alive.

                            7. Buildings

         During your party's travels,  you'll  be  searching  for
    certain locations in cities.  Most of the  essential  buddings
    are strategically located so that you do not have to
    wander  aimlessly.  However,  some  buildings  may  be   in
    less populated outskirts of  cities  and  require  explora-
    tion to discover.

         Some buildings or caves don't have interior light
    sources.  In these cases, an electric torch or lantern is
    necessary.  Also,  some  doors  may  be  reinforced  so  that
    unwanted  intruders  cannot  gain  entrance.   A   demolition
    charge  can  sometimes  destroy  a  door.  You  may  also  be
    forced to excavate an area; digging  tools  are  required  to
    excavate.

         Many building  locations  are  handled  specially,  with
    a specific set of options.  These buildings are:

               Vehicle Rental
                   Where you can rent a Grav
                 Vehicle or an ATV.

              Bank Machine
                  Where you can withdraw,
                deposit, pool money and make
                an inquiry.

              Casino
                  Where you can gamble in
                games of chance including slots,
                craps and blackjack.

              Monorail Station (white)
                  Where you can get a monorail
                ticket to another city on the
                planet that you are on.

              Airport (red)
                  Where you can buy airplane
                tickets to another city on the
                planet that you are on.

              Scout Base (green)
                  Ex-members of the Scouts can
                access computer services, buy
                ship supplies and fuel, and accept
                surveying jobs.

              Naval Base (blue)
                  Ex-members of the Navy can
                access computer data and buy
                ship supplies and fuel.



   Hypermarket
       A general store where you can
     purchase a variety  of  supplies,
     weapons, armor and ammunition.

   Shipyard (blue)
        Where you can refuel and
     repair your starship, as well  as
     buy weapons and supplies for it.
     The shipyard is also  the  place
     where  you  can   purchase   your
     own starship.

   Hospital
       Where  you  can  heal   injured
     characters.

   Customs
       On some planets with restrictive
     law levels, customs checkpoints
     are set up to search visitor's for
     illegal objects and weapons.  If
     you are carrying illegal items, they
     are confiscated until you return to
     the starport.

   Recruiting Center
        Where you  can  recruit  new, characters and train your charac-
     ters in specific areas to increase their skills.

    Starport Ticket Office
        Where you can book passage to another world and buy tickets for
      your characters if you don't have your own ship.

    Police Station
        If one or more of your characters has been arrested, you can go
      to a police station and post bail. You can also check arrest war-
      rants to see if any rewards are being offered.

   Trade and Commerce Warehouse
       Where you can buy and sell cargo.  It's a good idea to pay
      attention to library information, TAS information and rumors; they
      will sometimes give trade and commerce hints.  Strategy is
      important to being a profitable trader.  Pay attention to where
      cargo can be bought inexpensively and sold for a profit.

   TAS
       The Traveller's Aid Society let's you access computer data and
      buy passage to other worlds. TAS members receive one free High
      Passage ticket every two months.
      
   Library
       Where you can research topics of interest for a small fee.

   Travel Agent
       Where you can buy a monorail or aircraft ticket to another city on
     the world that you are visiting.

   Government Office (yellow)
       There is a special government office in the Rhylanor Startown
     where you can apply for rewards.

   Hotel
       A place where important people might be staying.

   Tavern
       A gathering place where you can sometimes pick up useful
     information or stumble onto sub-plots,

   Apartment Building
       A place of residence for various characters.

   University (blue/white)
       An academic institution staffed by various experts.
           
       Follow the on-screen instructions for each of these
   locations.

       The tech levels of worlds vary.  On more primitive
   worlds, you will not have the same options as you
   would on a high tech level world.  Refer to the Planets
   and their UWPs in The Handy Reference for Game
   Play section.  The buildings, objects to purchase and
   NPCs are reflective of the time period and tech level of
   

                            In Space

                        1. introduction

           Between your visits to various worlds within the
     Traveller universe, you will spend time travelling the
     interstellar spaceways.  These vast regions of space are
     traversed by far traders shipping cargo between worlds,
     Imperial fleet vessels protecting the interests of the
     Imperium, megacorporation vessels, and dreaded
     pirates who prey on defenseless cargo ships.  In the
     Traveller universe, the spaceways are futuristic high-
     ways to other worlds.

           In  Mega Traveller 2, space travel can be accom-
     plished in two ways: either by your own personal
     starship or by commercial passage aboard an interstellar
     liner.

                  2. Travelling by interstellar Liner

           If you're not fortunate enough to have obtained
     your own starship, you can travel the spaceways on a
     commercial passenger liner.  You can purchase tickets
     at a starport ticket office or a TAS location on the
     planet.  Destinations, arrival and departure times can all
     be viewed when purchasing tickets.  Guide your party,
     with their tickets, to the starport on the day of depar-
     ture.

           At ticket locations, you will be able to purchase
     High, Middle and Low Passage.  High Passage is a first
     class ticket, complete with steward service.  Middle
     Passage is a coach class ticket.  With a Low Passage
     ticket, you are frozen for your journey and placed in
     the cargo bay.  There may be side effects from travelling
     with a Low Passage ticket, and it is not recommended.

       After you board the ship, you will view a travel
    screen and immediately arrive at your destination.  Time
    will have passed accordingly.

                  3. Travelling by Starship

       If one of your characters has his own starship or
    you buy a starship after your adventure has begun, you
    can travel the spaceways in a much more convenient
    and exciting way.  When you board your starship at a
    starport, your characters will automatically volunteer to
    take the crew stations for which they are most quali-
    fied.  The six stations aboard a starship are:

       Pilot
         Responsible for taking off, landing and flying the
       ship.

       Navigator
         Responsible for plotting courses and destinations
       and handling jumps.

       Engineer
         Responsible For monitoring and repairing damage
       to the vehicle.

       Medic
         Responsible for manning the sick bay and healing
       injured characters.
         
        Gunner I
          Responsible for manning the main weapons
        turret.

        Gunner 2
          Responsible for manning the secondary weapons
        turret.

        Of course, you are able to override your characters
   and place them in other stations, but  most  of  the  time
   your characters know where they belong.

        Considering that you have only five  characters  (or
   less) in your party and six stations to man, you may
   have to reassign characters to other stations  often.  For
   example, if none of your characters  is  sick,  you  could
   move your medic to another station if he is qualified to
   be there.

        Ships that you can purchase vary in price as well as
   in technical sophistication.  Analyze the ship that you
   are planning to  purchase so that  you  can  make  sure  it
   has everything you  need  (appropriate  jump  drive,  fuel
   scoops and purification plant, etc.).

    A) Character Information
      The character information remains the same as it
    did for ground exploration and combat.  Please refer
    to the On the Ground section above for character
    block information.

    B) View Screen
      The view screen varies during space travel and
    combat.  When your characters board the ship you
    will view them moving to the stations for which
    they have volunteered.  After you've plotted a
    course, the view changes and you see the ship
    taking off from a bridge-level window view.  In
    flight, the view changes back to overhead.  During
    combat sequences the screen changes to an over-
    head view of your ship and any enemy ship(s),
    During landing, the view changes to a bridge-level
    window view until you are safely on the ground.

      There is no Zoom in/Zoom Out option because it
    does not pertain to space travel and combat.

    C) System Name
     The name of the system that you are currently in
    appears in this small window.

    D) Travel Information
     This window will keep you informed if you are
    proceeding to a gas giant or are at a gas giant and
    ready to refuel, if you are proceeding to the jump
    point or are ready to jump, or if you are en route to
    the main planet in the system or are in orbit and
    ready to land.  There is also a fuel gauge that lets
    you know if you have enough fuel for a jump or
    not.

       E) Day Number
         This window displays the day number from the
       time your adventure began.

       F) Space Icons
        All space travel and combat is handled through
       on-screen icons.  They are:

          Ship Icon - The Ship icon lets you control your six
              stations, store objects and exit the ship.  After the
              Ship icon is selected, the following options appear:

              Stations - Enables you to reassign charac-
                  ters to different stations.  Select the
                  character you want to move and place
                  him in the station you  want him to
                  occupy.  You can also view the station
                  and receive a report on its status.

              Bridge - Lets you choose a destination.
                  From the Bridge option you can plot a
                  course to:

                  A) Gas Giant - By selecting gas giant,
                      your pilot will guide the ship to the
                      have fuel scoops and a purification
                      plant).

                   B) Jump  Point  -  Your  pilot  will   take
                          you  to  the  nearest  jump  point  so
                          that you can jump to a new system.

                            Jump Travel

        Distances  between  worlds  in  the  MegaTraveller  uni-
      verse are  inherently  great.  Two  adjacent  systems  are
      actually over three light years apart, meaning that  light
      takes over 3 years to travel between them.

        To enable  travel  from  one  star  system  to  another,
      MegaTraveller  permits  "jump  space"  travel,  wherein  a
      starship passes from point A in  ordinary  space,  through
      a section of alternate space, to  arrive  at  point  B  in
      ordinary space jump space makes it possible to complete
      what  would  normally  be  a  thousand-year   journey   in
      only one week.

                             Misjumps

       Sometimes  a  jump  goes  wrong.  Catastrophic   failures
      destroy the ship and its crew.  Other failures can  destroy
      a drive or send  a  ship  in  the  wrong  direction.  Some
      misjumps reduce a jump-6 to  a  mere  jump-1,  or  convert
      a jump-1 into jump-10, 20 or higher.

                      C) Main Planet - When you've jumped
                         to a new system, you should select
                         Main Planet  so  that  your  pilot  can
                         guide you to the world.

              The Bridge options may change,
              depending on your location.  If
              you've plotted  a  course  for  a  gas
              giant and arrived  there,  the  option
              changes  from  Gas  Giant  to  Refuel.
              When  you  select  Refuel,  the   ship
              will skim the surface of the gas
              giant and  refuel,  provided  you  have
              fuel scoops and  a  purification  plant.

          If you are at the jump Point the option
              changes to Jump.  A  list  of  systems
              to  which  you  can  jump,  based   on
              your jump drive capacity, will
              appear.  Select  the  system  to  which
              you  want  to  travel;  the  navigator
              will handle the actual jump.
          If you are in orbit of  the  Main  Planet,
              the option changes to Land.  Select  it
              and  you  will  be  asked  where   you
              want  to  land.  You  can  select  the
              starport (if the planet  has  one)  or
              you  can  pinpoint  a  location  where
              you  want  to  land  on  an   overhead
              map of the world.  After you've
              determined where you want to
              land, your ship will  descend  to  the
              planet's surface.
     Medical -  If  you  have  a  character  who  is
          medically skilled  manning  the  sick  bay,
          you  can  send  an  injured  character  to
          him  for  an  examination.  The  medic  will
          report on the  characters  condition.  If
          the character is  seriously  injured,  the
          medic  will  recommend  that  the   charac-
          ter be checked into the sick bay.  The
          skill level of the medic in sick  bay  will
          determine  how  much  of  the  character's
          injuries can be healed  without  going  to
          a hospital.

      Engineering - The character who is
            manning the engineering station will
            report on any damages  that  the  ship  has
            suffered.  The engineer  will  fix  as  much
            damage  as  he  can  with  his  engineering
            skill.  Some of the more extensive
            damage that is suffered can  not  be  fixed
            unless you are at a well-equipped
            shipyard.

       Ship's Locker - The ship's locker is the
            place  where  your  characters  can   store
            items in their inventories  before  exiting
            the  ship  and  journeying  to  the   planet
            outside.  You are able  to  place  items  in
            the ship's locker and retrieve them
            whenever you want.  You can also
            examine the  locker  at  any  time  to  see
            what items are currently inside.

       Exit Ship - Lets you leave the ship and
            venture onto the  planet.  Before  leaving,
            you  can  designate  one  or  more  charac-
            ters to stay behind.  This is useful if  you
            have  a  character  who   is   recuperating
            from injuries.  The  character  you  desig-
            nated to  be  the  leader  must  leave  the
            ship since he is the leader  of  the  other
            characters.

                   Combat Icon- The Combat icon
                    controls all of the space battles your
                    ship faces.  The space combat
                    options that appear are:

                   Target - When your pilot informs you that there is an
                        enemy vessel in the vicinity, and you
                        select the Target option, the overhead
                        view of the ship is replaced by an
                        overhead space picture where you see
                        a small representation of your ship and
                        the enemy vessel(s).  You are asked to
                        move the crosshairs to the enemy (or
                        enemies) and press the <Enter> key (or
                        the joystick or mouse button).

                    Attack - if you have a character in the
                        Gun I Station, you can attack after
                        you've targeted your opponent.  If you
                        have two skilled gunners in the turret
                        positions, your chances of success are
                        far greater.  The actual weapons with
                        which you can equip your ship are also
                        very important.  Refer to the Handy
                        Reference for Game Play section for
                        details on ship weapons.  You will see
                        the result of the space battle on the
                        outside overhead map, If you've dis-
                        abled a ship you have the option of
                        boarding and taking the ship's cargo or
                        destroying the ship completely

       React - As with ground combat, when
           React is on, your characters automati-
           cally react when they are taken by
           surprise by firing back at the enemy
           ship that is shooting at them.  When
           React is off, you will have to target your
           attackers manually.

      Flee - Flee lets your plot attempt to
           escape from the attack.  If the pilot is
           successful, your ship will flee to a safe
           area, away from enemy fire.

      Mayday - Lets you send out a distress call.
           A ship may or may not come to your
           aid.

   Converse   Icon   -   The Converse  icon  lets
        you communicate with the captains of other ships in
        your immediate vicinity and  gather important  data   on
        the  main  world  in the star system that you are travelling in.
        You can also select a new leader for your
        party from the Converse icon.  The Converse icon options are:

        Hail - When Hail is selected,  the  pilot  will
            make contact with the other ship.  An
            overlay window appears and the
            Captain of the ship will give you a
            message.  Important  information   can   be
            obtained from NPCs in space.

        World Info  -  When  World  Info  is  selected,
            the character  with  the  best  communica-
            tions skill provides data on the main
            world in  that  system.  The  world's  UWP
            is displayed along with any special
            information regarding  that  planet.  Refer
            to the Handy Reference for Game
            Play section for UWP descriptions.

        Change  Leader   -  Lets you   change   leaders
            in  your  party.

        Game Controls Icon  - The Game Controls icon controls the
          following game play options:

          Save - Lets you save a game that you've
              been playing.

          Restore - Lets you restore a previously
              saved game.

          Quit - Permits you to exit the game and
              return to DOS.

          Sound - Lets you toggle sound effects and
              music on and off.

          PAL System - Lets you turn the PAL
              override messages on and off.

          Help - Sometimes you may find yourself a
              little confused during the course of your
              adventure.  If you select the help option,
              one or more of your characters will
              offer some advice about what to do
              next in your adventure.  But remember,
              if you don't have an intelligent member
              of your party, the advice will probably
              not amount to much.
     
                             5. Ships

           While travelling through each system, your ship will
        encounter a number of other ships.  There are eight
        classes of ships in Mega Traveller 2.  All of the ships,
        including your own, will be one of the following types:

           Scout/Courier
             One of the most common starships within the
           Imperium is the tested and proven Scout/Courier.
           This sleek, simple, lightly manned and highly maneu-
           verable ship is commonly used for exploration and
           survey duties.

           System Defense Boat
             The term boat means a non-starship, whether a
           ship's boat or a defense boat.  Because non-
           starships can allocate more tonnage to power plants
           and weaponry, they can usually defeat a starship of
           equal size.  System Defense Boats usually protect
           primary worlds from stations in orbit.  They are very
           maneuverable and can strike when least expected.

           Far Trader
             The Far Trader is the basic ship involved in trade.
           A Far Trader's primary purpose is to deliver cargo
           in and between systems.  To defend against sus-
           pected pirate raids, all trading ships are built with at
           least one hardpoint for the installation of weapon
           systems.

           Cargo Liner
            With a 3000-ton hull, the Cargo Liner is a main-
            route cargo vessel employed in freight transporta-
            tion activities throughout the Imperium.  The Cargo
            Liner has a cargo capacity of 1259 tons; it requires a
            crew of 15 and can carry up to 10 passengers.

      Passenger Liner
        Using a 1000-ton hull, the Passenger Liner is a
      main-route passenger transport serving much of the
      Imperium.  Built sturdily and intended to last in
      service for decades, the Passenger Liner has 50
      staterooms and six emergency low passage berths.
      The ship normally carries 24 high passage and 12
      middle passage passengers.

      Close Escort
        Close Escorts patrol the spaceways, protecting
      ships from pirates.  Whether they are flying in
      routine patrols in the hope of catching pirates, or in
      convoys with other ships, the Close Escort is an
      ideal small craft for the protection of merchant
      traffic.

      Pinnace
        Plying the lanes between planets are the small
      craft which run errands, make small deliveries, and
      generally do much of the dirty work that the larger
      craft can't or won't do.  The Pinnace can carry eight
      passengers and has a cargo hold for 10 tons.

      Ship's Boat
        The Ship's Boat is a small vessel ordinarily carried
      aboard a larger ship to perform odd jobs and minor
      operations.  A Ship's Boat is incapable of interstellar
      flight; it masses 30 tons.

      Please refer to the Handy Reference for Game
      Play section for a detailed look at each of these ships;
      statistical data, pictures and a more detailed description
      of the functions of the ships appear in that section.

                             6. Piracy

         Pirating is a bold option for illegally obtaining cargo
      from free traders and megacorporation ships.  The
      stolen cargo can then be sold at a trade and commerce
      center for a profit.

         Piracy, however, can be a very risky and dangerous
      profession.  The more you pirate a megacorporation's
      ships, the more protective vessels it will assign to
      subsequent trading expeditions.  And remember, your
      ship may also be the target of other pirate ships.  Be on
      the lookout; it would be a devastating loss if you just
      left a planet with a load of valuable cargo, only to have
      it stolen by pirates.

         In order to pirate a ship, you must be able to dock
      with it, and that can only occur when you've rendered
      a ship defenseless during combat. If you successfully
      dock with a ship, the overhead view changes to a
      graphic display of the disabled ship's cargo hold.  You
      can take the cargo from the ship - as long as you
      have available space in the cargo hold of your ship.

                  7. Subsectors and Systems

        Mega Traveller 2 takes place in four subsectors of
    the Spinward Marches: Rhylanor, Regina, Lanth and
    Ararnis.  Each of these subsectors contains a number of
    worlds that you can visit.  The adventure spans 117
    worlds, each with its own unique aspects.  There are
    varying numbers of cities on each planet.  Some worlds
    are completely desolate, with no cities, while other
    worlds may have as many  as  nine  large  population
    centers.

       Throughout your adventure, you will receive hints
    about where to go next.  These hints may be obtained
    during library research, from contact with other charac-
    ters or from TAS rumors.  Refer to the Handy Refer-
    ence for Game Play  section  of  this  manual.  Each
    subsector is broken down, and each world and its cities
    are listed.  There are also maps of the subsectors.

       All pertinent information concerning the subsectors,
    worlds and cities is contained in the reference section.

                     The PAL System

       The PAL system refers to the method in which your
    characters volunteer for the services and tasks that they
    are best suited for, based on their attributes and skills.
    The PAL system is named for the friendship and cama-
    raderie that exists between you and your characters.
    Your characters are your pals, and many of their
    responses to you throughout the game reflect unity and
    the bond of friendship.  At the beginning of the adventure
    you select one of your party members as your
    leader.  You may decide to change leaders during the
    course of the game; this option is required if your
    leader is injured, becomes unconscious or dies.

        The other characters take orders only from you
    through your lead character.

        PAL messages appear whenever your team is faced
    with a task to perform.  The character who has the best
    chance of successfully completing that task, based on
    his skills, will volunteer to perform the task.  For ex-
    ample, if you are ready to enter a casino,  the  character
    with the best  gambling  skill  might  say  something like,
    "I didn't  win  the  intergalactic  blackjack  championship
    for nothing.  I can win us some money."

           The PAL system was implemented so that you
       wouldn't have to shuffle characters each time a task
       needed to  be  performed.  But  the  PAL  system  does  not
       rely on a character's skills alone, intelligence is another
       critical factor in PAL responses.  A character who is
       unskilled at a task, but is highly intelligent may be  able
       to successfully complete  the  task,  whereas  a  character
       with a low intelligence and a low skill level stands little
       or no chance at performing a given task.

          A character with a high intelligence and no skill
       level might say something like, "I'm no expert in
       interrogation, but I'll try to fake it.  I think I can pull it
       off." Based on the character's intelligence, he may
       succeed at interrogating a  prisoner.  On  the  other  hand
       a character with a low intelligence and no skill level
       might say,  "I don't know what questions to ask.  It's
       hopeless."  Intelligence is a very important factor in
       determining  whether  a  character  successfully   performs
       a task.

          You have the ability to override your characters
       when they volunteer for tasks (except when PAL
       messages are toggled off).  You have the power to
       assign any character to a task.  But remember, your
       characters know what their strengths and weaknesses
       are; it's usually best to listen to them.

          Under the Game Controls icon, you can turn the
       PAL messages on and off.  If you turn off the PAL
       messages, the character who is best qualified to per-
       form a task will automatically do it.

      PAL messages appear throughout the game, in both
  ground and space sequences.  Some of the tasks for
  which your characters will volunteer to take responsi-
  bility include bribing, threatening, interrogating, bar-
  gaining, recruiting, trading, gambling, fighting, piloting,
  engineering, administering medical care, conversing,
  and driving vehicles.


       -------- HANDY REFERENCE FOR GAME PLAY --------
                

          Reading the Universal Personality Profile

        The Universal Personality Profile (UPP) summarizes
    a character's attributes as a sequence of six hexadeci-
    mal numbers (O to F).  Mega Traveller uses a hexadeci-
    mal numbering system for virtually all calculations and
    determinations.  Numbers zero  through  9  are  repre-
    sented by numerals, but numbers 10 through 15 are
    represented by the letters A through F  respectively.
    Thus a character with a STR of B actually has a strength
    rating of 11. The highest number in the Mega Traveller 2
    hexadecimal system is F, which represents 15.
        The Attributes, in order, are
        Strength (STR)
        Dexterity (DEX)
        Endurance (END)
        Intelligence (INT)
        Education (EDU)
        Social Standing (SOC) for Humans / Charisma
    (CHA) for Vargrs.

        A character with a UPP of 777777 is average in
    every respect.  A character with a UPP  of  A47CD8  is
    stronger than average (A); is not very dexterous (4); has
    average endurance (-17); is very intelligent (C); is ex-
    tremely well educated (D).  If the character is a human,
    he has a slightly above average social standing; if the
    character is a Vargr he has an above average charisma
    level.

                       Skills
                       
       Here is a list of skills that are useful in
   MegaTraveller 2.  A short description of the skill follows
   each heading.

   Admin: The individual has experience with bureau-
       cratic agencies and understands the requirements
       of dealing with and managing them.  Also, Admin
       skill helps your character in the trading process.

   Advanced Combat Rifle: The individual can use the
       advanced combat rifle.

   Artisan: The individual has skill and experience
       creating objects and artifacts.  The skill may be
       used to duplicate objects and works of art, either
       legally or illegally.  When used illegally, artisan
       skill is similar to Forgery, but applies to objects or
       works of art instead of documents.  The Artisan
       skill also helps an individual find hidden objects;
       a skilled Artisan can also determine an object's
       authenticity.

   Assault Rifle: The individual can use the assault rifle,
       a basic soldier's weapon.

   ATV: The individual can operate, use and maintain
       an all-terrain vehicle.

   Auto rifle: The character can use the auto rifle, a
       basic soldier's weapon.

     Battle Dress: The individual can operate battle dress
         the most highly advanced military armor available.

     Body Pistol: The individual can use the body pistol.

     Brawling: The individual is skilled in hand-to-hand
         combat, and can fight without weapons or with
         typical improvised weapons such as clubs.

     Bribery: The individual has had experience in bribing
         officials in order to circumvent regulations or
         ignore cumbersome laws.

     Broadsword: The individual can use the broadsword,
         a long, heavy sword.

     Broker: The character is skilled in the marketing of
         goods, and he understands the business of
         buying and selling.

     Carbine: The individual knows how to use the
         carbine, a short, easy-to-carry rifle.

     Carousing: The individual is a gregarious and sociable
         individual who is well adapted to meeting
         and mingling with strangers in unfamiliar sur-
         roundings, A good carouser is at home in taverns,
         and can usually acquire valuable information
         from patrons in the establishment.

     Combat Rifleman: The individual has been trained in
         the use of modern combat rifles, and includes
         skill in standard rifle, advanced combat rifle,
         assault rifle, carbine and gauss rifle.
         
   Communications:  The  character  is  trained  in  the   use,
       repair and maintenance of communications
       devices.  Communications  skill  is  also  very   worth-
       while on starships when trying to gather world
       information and attempting to contact other
       vessels.

   Computer: The person is skilled in the operation of
       electronic and fiber optic computers (both
       ground and ship models).  The person can also
       use a computer to retrieve data that is freely
       available.

   Dagger (Weapon): The individual can use a dagger
       as a weapon.

   Demolitions:  The  person  is  experienced  in  the   proper
       handling, placement and efficient use of explosives.

   Disguise:  The  individual  is  experienced   in   modifying
       his mannerisms and appearance to avoid being
       recognized.

   Electronics: The person has  skill  in  the  use,  operation
       and repair of electronic devices.  The person is
       considered handy  in  his  field,  with  the  equivalent
       of a green thumb.

   Energy   Weapons   (Includes   Fusion   and   Plasma   Gun):
       The individual is familiar with a variety  of  military
       energy weapons.

   Engineering:  The  character  can   operate   and   maintain
       a starship and fix damage suffered during space
       travel and combat.

     Forensic: The individual is skilled at gathering and
         interpreting evidence at the scene cf a crime or
         accident.  A forensic kit is most often required.  A
         character who has forensic skill can pick up hints
         and clues more easily than others.

     Forgery: The individual has  developed  some  skill  at
         faking documents and papers  for  the  purpose  of
         deceiving officials, banks or patrons.

     Fusion Gun (Weapon): The individual can use a
         fusion gun as a weapon.

     Gambling:  The  individual  is  well-informed  concern-
         ing games of chance, and is wise  in  how  to  play
         them.

     Gauss Rifle (Weapon): The individual can use a gauss
         rifle as a weapon.

     Grav Vehicle: The individual can drive all types of
         Grav Vehicles effectively.  Grav Vehicles will
         travel faster if the pilot is skilled in flying them.

     Grenade Launcher (Weapon): The individual can fire
         a grenade launcher with proficiency.

     Handgun: The individual can fire handguns accu-
         rately.

     Heavy Weapons (Includes Grenade Launcher and
         Light Assault Gun): The character  can  effectively
         use heavy weapons.

     History: The individual has a broad knowledge of
         history and he also understands research tech-
         niques that are useful in gathering details on
         people, places and events.
         
    Interrogation: The individual knows the psychological
        art of interrogation.  The individual will  be
        able to extract more information from a subject
        than is normally possible.

    Interview:  The character is skilled in conversing with
        others on an individual basis.  The  character's
        knowledge of psychology, body language and
        oral communications allows him to draw others
        out, making the person being interviewed more
        apt to be open.

    Intrusion: The individual has experience in clandes-
        tine methods of acquiring goods that belong to
        others.  An individual  with intrusion skill can pick
        locks, open locked doors and pick pockets.

    Jack-Of-All-Trades: The individual is proven capable
        of handling a wide variety of situations  and  is
        resourceful at finding  solutions  and  remedies.

    Large Blade (Weapon): The individual is skilled in
        the use of large end weapons including, the
        broadsword.

    Laser Pistol (Weapon): The individual can fire a laser
        pistol.

    Laser Rifle (Weapon): The character can fire a laser
        rifle.

    Laser Weapons (Includes Laser Pistol and laser Rifle):
        The individual can use laser weapons.

    Leader: The individual has led others through difficult
        situations, and he also possesses a knowledge
        and self-assurance which work together to form a
        capable emergent or appointed leader.

          Legal: The individual is familiar with the wide variety
              of laws and regulations of interstellar travel,
              trading and relations.

          Liaison: The individual is trained in the art of dealing
              with others; this skill is usable in relations with
              members of military units, citizens in a commu-
              nity and with alien or foreign cultures.

          Light Assault Gun (Weapon): The individual can use
              a light assault gun.

         Linguistics: The individual has training and experi-
              ence communicating verbally in foreign lan-
              guages and deciphering foreign writings.

         Mechanical: The character can use, operate and
              repair mechanical devices.

         Medical: The individual has skill in the medical arts.

         Naval Architect: The individual is trained in the
              design of starships and small craft.  The character
              is familiar with a variety of starships.

         Navigation: The character is trained in interplanetary
              and interstellar navigation.  A starship navigator is
              responsible for plotting courses and ensuring
              information is available to the crew and pilot
              when it is required.  Also, this skill allows the
              character to interpret the data provided by the
              starship's scanners and detectors.

        Persuasion: The individual can persuade individuals
              or groups to take a particular course of action.
         
      Pilot: The character is capable  of  operating  starships
          and large interplanetary spacecraft.  This skill
          allows the individual to control lift-offs, landings,
          refueling, retreating and routine flights,

     Pistol (Weapon): The individual can  fire  a  pistol  with
          accuracy.

     Plasma Gun (Weapon), The individual can use a
          plasma gun effectively.

     Recruiting: The individual is familiar with the most
          effective methods of approaching others and
          presenting proposals for employment.

    Revolver (Weapon): The individual can use a re-
          volver effectively.

    Rifle (Weapon): The individual can use a rifle effec-
          tively.

    Rifleman: The character is drilled in the use of stan-
          dard military weapons such as the auto rifle,
          carbine and rifle.

    Sensor Ops: The character is accomplished in the
          operation and interpretation of a variety  of  sensor
          readings aboard a starship including radar and
          targeting.

   Ship's Boat: The character can operate a small space-
          craft known as a ship's boat.  These craft include
          shuttles, lifeboats and fighters.

   Small Blade (Includes Blade and Dagger): The
          individual is skilled in the use of small-edged
          weapons.

      Snub Pistol (Weapon): The  character  can  fire  a  snub
          pistol accurately.

      Stealth: The individual is trained in covert activity and
          is capable of remaining unobserved by moving
          quietly  and  taking  maximum  advantage  of avail-
          able cover.  This is a useful skill when trying to
          smuggle  weapons  and  illegal  items  through
          customs.

      Streetwise: The individual is acquainted with the
          ways of local subcultures and  thus  is  capable  of
          dealing with strangers without alienating them.

      Sub-Machine  Gun  (Weapon):  The  individual   can   use
          a sub-machine gun effectively.

      Survey: The character is skilled  in  mapping  and
          charting star systems.  The skill is also useful if
          you are conducting a survey of a planet for the
          Scouts.

      Sword (Weapon): The  individual  is  effective  in
          fighting with swords.

      Tactics:  The  character  can  develop  winning   combat
          strategies and tactics on ground and in space.

      Trader: The individual has an  awareness  of  the
          techniques and practice of commerce in  all  of  its
          expressions.  This skill allows a character  to
          determine the real value  of  many  items,  increas-
          ing his negotiating power.

      Turret Weapons: The character can operate turret-
          mounted and fixed small craft weaponry.
      
    Vacc Suit: The individual is able to operate a stan-
        dard vacuum suit.  This also includes the use of
        other suits required on planetary surfaces with
        exotic or insidious atmospheres,

    Zero-G Environ: The individual has been trained to
        work in environments without gravity.

                         Cascade Skills

    Academic: Admin, History, Linguistics, Persuasion,
        Science, +1 Education

    Blade Combat: Large Blade, Small Blade

    Environ: Stealth

    Exploratory: Pilor, Sensor Ops, Survey, Vacc Suit,
        Space Vehicle

    Gun Combat: Energy Weapons, Handgun, Laser
        Weapons, Rifleman, Sub-machine gun

    Gunnery: Turret Weapons

    Hand Combat: Blade Combat, Brawling, +1 Endur-
        ance, +1 Strength

    Inborn: Artisan, Carousing, Intrusion, jack-of-All-
        Trades

    lnterpersonal: Admin, Interview, Liaison

    Mental: +1 Intelligence, +1 Education

    Physical: +1 Dexterity, +1 Endurance, +1 Strength

    Science: Medical

     Space: Engineering, Navigation.  Pilot, Sensor Ops,
        Ship's Boat, Vacc Suit

     Space Combat: Gunnery, Sensor Ops, Tactics

     Space Tech: Communications, Computer, Engineer-
        ing, Vacc Suit

     Special Combat: Battle Dress,  Combat Rifleman,
        Demolition, Heavy Weapons, Stealth, Zero-G
        Environ

     Technical: Communications, Computer, Bribery,
        Disguise, Forgery, Gambling, Intrusion, Streetwise

     Vehicle: Grav Vehicle, Ship's Boat

     Vice: Bribery, Disguise, Forgery, Gambling, intrusion,
        Streetwise

             Reading the Universal World Profile

        The Universal World Profile (UWP) is a series of
     letters and numbers used to summarize the characteris-
     tics of a planet.  The characteristics, in order, are:

        Starport
        Size
        Atmosphere
        Hvdrographics
        Population
        Government
        Law Level
        Tech Level.

        As in the Universal Personality Profile (UPP), all
     numbers are hexadecimal.  In a hexadecimal system, the
     numbers 10 through 15 are represented by the letters A
     through F, respectively, Numbers zero through 9 are
     the same as in the decimal system.  Refer to the charts
     below to find out what each of the  numbers  in  the
     UWP represents.

                            Starport

   Code  Description
     A     Excellent quality installation.  Refined  fuel
               available.  Annual maintenance overhaul
               available.  Shipyard capable of construct-
               ing starships and non-starships present.
               Naval  base  and/or  Scout  base  may  he
               present.

     B     Good quality installation.  Refined fuel avail-
               able.  Annual maintenance overhaul
               available.  Shipyard capable of construct-
               ing  non-starships  present.  Naval  base
               and/or Scout base may be present.

     C     Routine quality installation.  Only unrefined
               fuel available.  Reasonable repair facilities
               present.  Scout base may be present.

     D     Poor quality installation.  Only unrefined fuel
               available.  No repair or shipyard facilities
               present.  Scout base may be present.

     E     Frontier installation.  Essentially a marked spot
               of bedrock with no fuel, facilities or bases
               present.

     X     No starport.  No provision  is  made  for  any
               ship landings.

                                    Size

 Code    General Description           Min. Diameter       Max.  Diameter
   0     Asteroid/Planetoid Belt       Multiple bodies     Under 200 km
   1     Small                              800    km          2,399 km
   2     Small (Luna: 3,200 km)           2,400    km          3,999 km
   3     Small (Mercury: 4,800 km)        4,000    km          5,599 km
   4     Small (Mars: 6,400 km)           5,600    km          7,199 km
   5     Medium                           7,200    km          8,799 km
   6     Medium                           8,800    km         10,399 km
   7     Medium                          10,400    km         11,999 km
   8     Large (Terra: 12,800 km)        12,000    km         13,599 km
   9     Large                           13,600    km         15,199 km
   A     Large                           15,600    km         16,799 km



                         Atmosphere

     Code   General Description
       0    vacuum
       1    vacuum (trace atmosphere)
       2    vacuum (very thin tainted atmosphere)
       3    vacuum (very thin atmosphere)
       4    thin (tainted atmosphere)
       5    thin
       6    standard
       7    standard (tainted atmosphere)
       8    dense
       9    dense (tainted atmosphere)
       A    exotic
       B    exotic (corrosive atmosphere)
       C    exotic (insidious atmosphere)
       D    exotic
       E    exotic
       F    exotic



                        Hydrographics

                                     Min %      Max %
   Code       General Description    Water      Water
     0        desert world              0          4
     1        dry   world               5         14
     2        dry   world              15         24
     3        wet   world              25         34
     4        wet   world              35         44
     5        wet   world              45         54
     6        wet   world              55         64
     7        wet   world              65         74
     8        wet   world              75         84
     9        wet   world              85         94
     A        water world              95        100


                             Population

           Code     General Description       Population
           0        low                       less than ten
           1        low                       tens
           2        low                       hundreds
           3        low                       thousands
           4        mod                       ten thousands
           5        mod                       hundred thousands
           6        mod                       millions
           7        mod                       ten  millions
           8        mod                       hundred millions
           9        high                      billions
           A        high                      ten billions


                                Government

         Code  General Description
           0   No Government Structure: In many cases, but
                    not  all,  family  bonds  predominate
           1   Company/Corporation: Government by a
                    company or corporation managerial elite;
                    citizens are company employees.
           2   Participating Democracy: Government by advice
                    and consent of the citizens.
           3   Self-Perpetuating Oligarchy: Government by a
                    restricted minority, with little or no input
                    from masses.
           4   Representative Democracy:  Government by
                    elected representatives.
           5   Feudal Technocracy: Government by specific
                    individuals for those who agreed to be
                    ruled.  Relationships are based on the perfor-
                    mance of technical activities which are
                    mutually beneficial.
           6   Captive   Government/Colony:   Goven-iment   by    a
                    leadership  answerable  to  an  outside  group;
                    a colony or conquered area.
           7   Balkanization: No central ruling authority  exists;
                    rival governments compete for control.
           8   Civil Service Bureaucracy: Government by
                    agencies  employing  individuals  selected  for
                    their expertise.
           9   Impersonal Bureaucracy: Government by
                    agencies which are insulated from the
                    governed.
           A   Charismatic Dictator: Government by a single
                    leader enjoying the confidence of the
                    citizens.
           B   Non-Charismatic  Leader:  A  previous   charismatic
                    dictator has been replaced by a leader
                    through normal channels.
           C   Charismatic Oligarchy: Government by a select
                    group, organization, or class enjoying
                    overwhelming confidence of the citizenry.
           D   Religious Dictatorship: Government by a reli-
                    gious minority which has little regard  for  the
                    needs of the citizenry.
           E   Religious Autocracy: Government by a single
                    religious leader  having  absolute  power  over
                    the citizenry.
           F   Totalitarian Oligarchy: Government by an all-
                     powerful  minority  which  maintains  absolute
                     control through widespread coercion and
                     oppression.


                               Law Level

       Code   General Description
        0     No Law (No prohibitions)
        1     Low Law (body pistols and explosives restricted)
        2     Low Law (man portable energy and laser weapons restricted)
        3     Low Law (machine guns and automatic weapons restricted)
        4     Moderate Law (light assault weapons restricted)
        5     Moderate Law (personal concealable weapons restricted)
        6     Moderate Law (all firearms except shotguns restricted)
        7     Moderate Law (shotguns restricted)
        8     High Law (blade weapons controlled, no open display)
        9     High Law (weapon possession outside home restricted)
        A     Extreme Law (weapon possession restricted)
        B     Extreme Law (rigid control of civilian movement)
        C     Extreme Law (unrestricted invasion of privacy)
        D     Extreme Law (paramilitary law enforcement)


                 Tech Level

       Code   General Description
        0     pre-industrial (primitive)
        1     pre-industrial (bronze or iron age)
        2     pre-industrial (printing press)
        3     pre-industrial (basic science)
        4     industrial (internal combustion)
        5     industrial (mass production)
        6     pre-stellar (nuclear power)
        7     pre-stellar (miniature electronics)
        8     pre-stellar (super conductors)
        9     early stellar (fusion power)
        A     early stellar (jump drive)
        B     average stellar (large starships)
        C     average stellar (sophisticated robots)
        D     average stellar (holographic data storage)
        E     high stellar (anti-grav cities)
        F     high stellar (anagathics)
        G     high stellar (global teleforming)
        H     extreme stellar

                                 Example

  The planet Efate, with a UWP of A646930-D, has an excellent starport (A).
  It is a medium size (6) planet with a thin-tainted atmosphere (4) and it
  is a wet world -- with 60% water (6).  The population of Efate is in the
  billions (9), governed by an Oliarchy (3).  There is no law (0) and the
  tech level is average stellar (D).
  
  There are 117 planets that you can visit in MegaTraveller 2.  Obviously,
  not all of these worlds are critical to the main scenario or sub-plots,
  but they are all fully explorable.  Following is a list of the planets,
  their corresponding UWP's and the cities (if any) on each world.


                        Cities in Regina Subsector

    Planet Name          UWP             Cities
    Efate                A646930-D       Efate Startown
                                         Anlisha
                                         Makish
                                         Kheker
                                         Arden
                                         Irir
                                         Gasharr

    Regina               A788899-A       Regina Startown
                                         Khale
                                         Gigish
                                         Imarsh
                                         Marburg

    Alell                B46789C-A       Alell Startown
                                         Dali
                                         Ekun Town
                                         Imuku
                                         Agadip

    Yres                 BAC6773-7       Yres Startown
                                         Magisburg
                                         Ninlish

    Menorb               C652998-7       Menorb Startown
                                         Khalir
                                         Monet
                                         Indias
                                         Karmad Town

    Uakye                B439598-D       None


    Whanga               E676126-7       Whanga Startown
                                         Townshend

    Knorbes              E888787-2       Knorbes Startown
                                         Dirka
                                         Sanura
                                         Cronin
                                         Vangogh

     Forboldn         E893614-4    Forboldn Startown

     Ruie             C776977-7    Ruie Startown
                                   Siirgi City
                                   Sula
                                   Khagin
                                   Irshi
                                   Kisi

     jenghe           C799663-9    Jenghe Startown

     Pixie            A100103-D    Pixie Star-town

     Boughene         A8B3531-D    None

     Hefry            C200423-7    None

     Feri             B384879-B    Feri Startown
                                   Falstaff
                                   Muzila
                                   Khur City
                                   Imim



    Roup             C77A9A9-6     Roup Startown
                                   Renoir
                                   Lurka
                                   Rudun
                                   Ishakema
                                   Lameburg
                                   Shikii City

    Pscias           X355423-1     No City or Starport

    Yori             C360757-D     Yori Startown
                                   Davinci

    Dentus           C979500-A     Dcntus Stailown

    Kinorb           A663659-5     Kinorb Startown
                                   Gangburg

    Beck's World     D88349D-4     None

    Enope            C411988-6     Enope Startown
                                   Hazi
                                   Pike
                                   Shaniira
                                   Rembrandt City
                                   Shudad
                                   Sabarbin
                                   Magik Town

     Wochiers         EAC28CC       Wochiers Startown
                                    Rouseau
                                    Ginush
                                    Gagamburg
                                    Kumaland

     Yorbund          C7C6503-7     None

     Shionthy         X000742-8     Shionthy Startown
                                    Erum Gah
                                    Surlnk

     Algine          X766977-4      Algine Startown
                                    Gugashe
                                    Jagger
                                    Vandyk City
                                    Nukuri

     Yurst            E7B4643-5     Yurst Startown

     Heya             B687745-5     Heya Startown
                                    Nagi
                                    Lira  Town
                                    Mukuran
                                    Missuey

     Keng             E2718CA-3     Keng Startown
                                    Kapash
                                    Sumiburg
                                    Kesher
                                    Adur
                                    Pas Town
                                    Egugur



  Moughas          CA5A588-B    Moughas Startown

  Rethe            E230AAS-8    Rethe Startown
                                Khidabra
                                Klu City
                                Ursaka
                                Gashi
                                Kanala
                                Eudukate
                                Mead
                                Usheme

  Inthe            B575776-9    Inthe Startown
                                Udur
                                iracke
                                Kuurim

                Cities in Lanth Subsector

     Planet Name        UWP             Cities
     Lanth              A879533-B       None

     Extolay            B45589A-A       Extolay    Startown
                                        Sha City
                                        Yeatsburg
                                        Didisha
                                        Khugu

     Dincm              D100535-A       None

     Ghandi             B211455-A       Ghandi     Startown
                                        Ambigaze

     Victoria           X697770-4       Victoria   Startown
                                        Sarik Gi

     Dinomn             3674632-3       Dinomn     Startown

     Ylaven             X587552-4       None

     Sonthert           X6266AB-3       Sonthert   Startown
                                        Ar

     D'Ganzio           B121410-D       None

     Wvpoc              E9C4547-C       Wypoc Startown

     Djinni             E459000-0       None

     Rech              D9957AA-6      Rech Startown
                                     Aaski
                                     Blakes Town

    Kkirka            CAA5345-8      None

    Quopist           B151679-A      Quopist Startown
                                     Kuru Iga
                                     Aru Dehu

    Treece           D232866-8       Treece  Startown
                                     Witmansburg
                                     Dishak
                                     Kihulam

    Echiste          C53A313-A       None

    Pirema           D691142-5       Pirema  Startown

    Rhise            C100576-A       None

    Ivendo           B324659-A       Ivendo  Startown
                                     Kadala Id

    Keanou           C790348-7       None
    Vreibefger       E481542-2       None

    La'Belle        C564112-3        La'Belle Startown

     Equus         B55A858-B      Equus Startown
                                  Gummifish
                                  Ulir City
                                  Kerouac
                                  Kagasisli

  Icetina           B5245A9-7     Icetina Startown

    Cogri          CA6A643-9      Cogri Startown

  Skull            C2237C7-9      Skull Startown
                                  Ukar
                                  Rashge
                                  Shaar Town


              Cities in Aramis Subsector

    Planet Name       UWP           Cities
    Aramis            A6BO556-B     None

    Paya              A655241-9     None

    Dhian             C9A769D-4     Dhian Startown
                                    Hushkim Town

    Corfu             X895674-8     Corfu Startown

    Focaline          EA88544-A     None

    Lablon            B646589-A     None

    Heguz             E66A224-C     None

    Violante          C669452-A     None

    Pavanne           E210000-0     None

    Carsten           C427402-B     None

    Zila              E25672C-7     Zila Startown
                                    Suugadus
                                    Dirniga
                                    Irkigaki

    Jesedipere        C775300-7     jesedipere Startown

      Yebab             C9A489A-7     Yebab Startown
                                      Shalam Kular
                                      Aga Ra
                                      Kekushima
                                      Gidii
                                      Kirpa

      Nasemin           B98A422-B     None

      Zykoca            X994542-6     None

      Aramanx           B657974-6     Aramanx Startown
                                      Ginsberg
                                      Kirshush
                                      Uurii Town
                                      Bachburg
                                      Udula
                                      Rilagum

      Pysadi            C4766D7-4     Pysadi Startown

      L'oeul d'Dieu     B98A510-B     None

      Rugbird           BAC5634-A     Rugbird Startown

      Towers            B444448-A     Towers Startown

      Feneteman         C222200-C     None

      Lewis             X427402-D     Lewis Startown

      junidy            B434ABD-9  Junidy Startown
                                   Miidrigi City
                                   Hikuup
                                   Aspina Imas
                                   Gamshalu
                                   Unsar City
                                   Gagisha
                                   Ragid Town

   Patinir          COC0632-9   Patinir Startown

   Natoko           B582211-8  Natoko Startown

   Reacher          C9A8542-8   None


             Cities in Rhylanor Subsector

     Planet Name       UWP            Cities
     Rhylanor          A434934-F      Rhylanor Startown
                                      Leba
                                      Liduka
                                      Hegra
                                      Panish
                                      Kikhimaa City

     Kinorb            C449433-9      Kinorb Startown

     Gileden           C483103-5      Gileden Startown

     Pannet            E9C5677-7      Pannet Startown

     Garrincski        B632520-7      Garrincski Startown

     Macene            B000453-E      Macene Startown

     Fulacin           A674210-D      None

     Natoko            C8879AB-9      Natoko Startown
                                      Lakan City

     Risek             A325579-A      Risek Startown

     Porozlo           A867A74-A      Porozlo Startown
                                      Geeka
                                      Seka
                                      Manier
                                      Bargugu
                                      Shununu
                                      Irmudad

        Loneseda            C86A215-7      Loneseda Startown

       Valhalla             E365432-5      Valhalla Startown

         Zivije            C6BI99C-B       Zivije   Startown
                                           Pusuurk City
                                           Karirbush
                                           Kashar
                                           Mikuunki
                                           Kafka Town
                                           Kiiki

       jae Tellona         A560565-8       None

       Gerome              X573000-0       None (no Starport)

       Henoz               A245543-B       N<)ne

       Celepina            B434456-8       None

       Gitosy              B000676-9       Gitosy   Startown

       Belizo              B895646-5       Belizo   Startown

       Kegena              E869569-3       Kegena Startown

       Heroni              E7AO614-3       Heroni   Startown
                                           Lunapi Ina

       457-973             X372215-4      457-973 Startown

       Somem               C301340-B       None



    Vinorian         B879610-9     Vinorian Startown
                                   Ruliranki City

    Nuitema          B846310-8     Nutema Startown

    Huderu           X575000-0     None (no starport)

    Cipatwe          B35879A-6     Cipatwe Startown
                                   Kamarne Town

   Vanejen           C686854-5     Vanejen Stai-tcwn
                                   Ganemir City
                                   Gumlin
                                   Ligalik Town

   Margesi          A576257-C      Margesi Startown

   Bevey            D4209CC-A      Bevey Startown
                                   Usharn
                                   Marii
                                   Khagii
                                   Ledashi

   Tacaxeb          C230411-B      None

   Powaza           C787566-5      Powaza Stanown


                Armor and Protective Suits

          There are many individual worlds within the
     universe.  Each of these planets, has unique societies
     and environments.  Often it will be necessary to protect
     your body with armor or protective environment suits
     designed to allow survival in severe atmospheric
     conditions. There is a large variety of armor and protec-
     tive suits available.  The availability of this equipment is
     largely determined by the tech level of the world.  On
     high tech level worlds, all types of equipment can be
     found.  However, on low tech level worlds, the only
     armor and protective suits are very basic.  Obsolete
     armor can usually be purchased for a bargain price on
     high tech level worlds.  Likewise, advanced equipment
     can be sold for a profit on worlds with a low tech level.
     However, buying and selling is largely a part of your
     own communication and negotiating skills.

        Jack Armor
          Effective against blade weapons (i.e. both:sword
        and dagger), jack is a leather covering worn over
        the torso, arms, and legs.  Although jack is ineffec-
        tive against firearms and energy weapons, it is
        useful on high law level worlds that only permit
        blade weapons.  It is light, inexpensive, and easy to
        purchase on nearly  any  world.

          Armor Value:                 1
          Weight (Kg):                 I
          Cost (Imperial Credits):     50
          Tech Level:                  I

    Mesh Armor
       A slightly upgraded version of jack armor, mesh
       can be a natural or synthetic suit that is reinforced
       with a metal mesh.  It is more costly but heavier
       and more durable than jack armor.  Mesh is most
       effective against blade weapons.  But, like jack
       armor, mesh offers little protection against firearms
       and energy weapons.

       Armor Value:                2
       Weight (Kg):                2
       Cost (Imperial Credits):    150
       Tech Level:                 7

       Flak jacket
       A flak jacket is an inexpensive form of ballistic
       cloth, fashioned into a protective covering to
       protect the torso.  A flak jacket offers limited protec-
       tion against firearms.  However, it will not protect
       you against personal energy weapons.

       Armor Value:                3
       Weight (Kg):                1
       Cost (Imperial Credits):    100
       Tech Level:                 7

       Cloth Armor
       An upgraded version of the flak jacket, cloth is a
       protective suit made from a heavier stock of ballistic
       cloth.  This armor absorbs the impact of a projectile
       and distributes the blow over the entire area of the
       suit.  It is highly favored because of its low cost,
       light weight, and protection against firearms.

       Armor Value:                5
       Weight (Kg):                2
       Cost (Imperial Credits):    250
       Tech Level:                 6

     Ablat Armor
       An inexpensive  material  designed  to  ablat  (vapor-
     ize) when struck by laser fire.  When the material
     vaporizes, the energy of the laser fire is carried
     away, offering protection to the wearer.  Ablat will
     eventually lose its effectiveness against laser  attacks
     because the armor wears away each time it is hit.

       Armor     Value:              1 (6 vs. lasers)
       Weight     (Kg):              2
       Cost (Imperial Credits):      75
       Tech Level:                   9

     Reflec Armor
       Reflec armor is extremely effective against laser
     weapons, but virtually useless against most other
     types of attacks.  This armor is constructed of a
     reflective material on a plastic base.  It is worn
     underneath your clothing.  This armor is rare,
     difficult to purchase and very expensive.

       Armor     Value:              1 (10 vs. lasers)
       Weight     (Kg):              1
       Cost (Imperial Credits):      1,500
       Tech Level:                   10

     TL 8 Vacc Suit
       This suit is not manufactured  explicitly  for  combat
     situations.  Instead, it is meant to protect you from
     extreme temperatures, pressure variations, and
     atmospheric conditions.  The vacc suit is a basic
     survival tool on worlds classified as desolate vacu-
     ums.  The TI 8 vacc suit is more unwieldy and
     uncomfortable  than  more   advanced   suits.   However,
     this suit serves the same purpose at a lower price.

       Armor     Value:                5
       Weight     (Kg):                10
       Cost   (Imperial Credits):      6,000
       Tech Level:                     8

     TL 9 Hostile Environment Vacc Suit (HEVC)
       The TL 9 HEVC is a more advanced version of
     the TL 8 vacc suit. It is less cumbersome and
     provides suitable armor protection in combat
     situations.  However,  the  main  purpose  of  the  suit  is
     to  offer  protection  against  the  harsh  and   dangerous
     environment   of   a   vacuum.

       Armor     Value:                7
       Weight     (Kg):                8
       Cost   (Imperial   Credits):    8,000
       Tech Level:                     9

     TL 12 Hostile Environment Vacc Suit
       Similar to the TL 8 and the TL  9  HE  vacc  suits,  the
     TL 12  offers  protection  in  vacuum   environments,   as
     well as armored protection against enemies, The
     main advantage of the TL 12 over other vacc stiils is
     iis flexibility and mobility.  Overall, it is the best  suit
     and armor combination next to military combat armor and battle dress.

       Armor     Value:                8
       Weight     (Kg):                2
       Cost   (Imperial   Credits):    10,000
       Tech Level:                     12

     TL 12 Combat Armor
       Combat armor is restricted to Imperial combat
     troops and is not sold on the open market.  But,
     due to a  thriving  black  market  for  military  supplies,
     the armor can be purchased on high tech level
     worlds.  The armor,  which  also  serves  as  a  vacc  suit,
     utilizes  advanced   metallurgy   and   synthetic   research.

       Armor Value:                     10
       Weight (Kg):                     10
       Cost (Imperial Credits):         30,000
       Tech Level:                      12

         TL 13 Battle Dress
           An advanced and powerful version of combat
         armor, battle dress is the ultimate form of personal
         protection.  Though battle dress is restricted to
         military use, it can be purchased on the black
         market  of  high  tech  level   worlds.   Detailed   informa-
         tion on battle dress is not available because it is
         considered highly classified in imperial military
         circles.

           Armor Value:                     10  est.
           Weight (Kg):                     26  est.
           Cost (Imperial Credits):         200,000 est.
           Tech Level:                      13

                       Combat  Weapons

         This weapons guide feacures a description of the
         weapon along with some important statistical information.
         
         Rounds/Clip
           This represents the number of rounds (bullets)
         that can be loaded into the weapon.  In some
         instances,  ammunition  is  contained  in  a  clip,  which
         is loaded into the weapon.  For energy weapons,
         this  is  the  approximate  number  of  shots   an   experi-
         enced person can Fire before the power pack needs
         to be recharged.

     Penetration Factor
       The higher the penetration factor, the more
     effective the weapon will be when fired against
     armored protection.  You  should  compare  the
     penetration factor of the weapon against the armor
     factor of an opponent to determine how effective
     your attack will be. if the penetration factor is
     greater, your assault will cause damage.  The greater
     the difference of the two factors, the more effective
     the weapon will be.

     Damage
       The base amount of  damage  caused  by  the
     weapon.  Damage is also effected by the protective
     armor an opponent is wearing and the various skills
     of the weapon's user.

     Weight
       The weight of the weapon in kilograms (kg).

     Cost
       All monetary transactions are carried out in
     Imperial credits.  The credit amount represents the
     base cost of the weapon.  This cost can increase or
     decrease based on the personal bartering skills of
     the buyer or seller, and the tech level of a particular
     planet.

     Tech Level
       The technology level needed to create the
     weapon.

         Law Level
           The law level of a world indicates the  level  at
         which the weapon is prohibited, Some worlds with
         stringent law levels will confiscate certain weapons
         outside of starports. It is not uncommon for weap-
         ons to be smuggled past starport checkpoints.
         Punishment for weapons smuggling is severe, and
         can result in death.

                     Personal Slug Throwers

         Slug thrower is a term used to describe a firearm, or
     weapon, that fires a projectile within your line of sight
     (LOS).  These weapons range from a simple revolver of
     shotgun to the Gauss Pistol,  the  most  advanced  slug
     thrower in the imperium.  All of the slug throwers are
     either single shot weapons that fire one round for each
     pull of the trigger, or fully automatic firearms that fire
     bursts of several rounds when the trigger is pulled.
     Ammunition for slug throwers is always purchased by
     the clip (magazine) or an  amount  necessary  to  fully
     load the weapon.  Ammunition is never sold by the
     individual shell.

         Magnum Revolver (9 mm)
           The 9 mm magnum revolver fires a  large  shell
         and has a high penetration  factor.  One  round  is
         fired with each pull of the trigger.  The pistol holds
         six rounds wnch are always purchased in a group
         and not separately.  The magnum revolver can be
         found on many lower tech level worlds.

        Rounds:                        6
        Penetration Factor:            3
        Damage:                        3
        Weight (Kg):                   1
        Cost (credits):                300
        Tech Level:                    5
        Law Level:                     5

      Body Pistol
        The body pistol is often smuggled into high tech
      level worlds.  The pistol is small and easy to con-
      ceal.  Designed to evade detection devices at
      starports, it is constructed of non-metallic material.
      The magazine holds six rounds and is loaded into
      the pistol's handle.

        Rounds:                        6
        Penetration Factor:            1
        Damage:                        3
        Weight (Kg):                   0.25
        Cost (credits):                500
        Tech Level:                    8
        Law Level:                     1

      Auto Pistol (9mm)
        The auto pistol is the most conunonly used
      automatic weapon.  It fires bullets at 400 to 500
      meters per second.  The weapon is fitted with a
      magazine that can hold up to 15 rounds of ammu-
      nition.  A favorite among ex-military travellers, the
      auto pistol is small, inexpensive and quite effective
      against opponents not protected by armor.

        Rounds:                        15
        Penetration Factor:            2
        Damage:                        3
        Weight (Kg):                   I
        Cost (credits):                200
        Tech Level:                    5
        Law  Level:                    5

        Gauss Pistol (4 mm)
          The Gauss pistol fires  a  needle  shaped  projectile
        that spins through an electromagnetic field.  The
        Gauss pistol is silent and deadly.  There is little
        kickback  when  firing  the   weapon.   Gauss   weapons
        are rare, and can only be purchased on high tech
        level   worlds.

          Rounds:                        15
          Penetration Factor:            4
          Damage:                        4
          Weight (Kg):                   0.8
          Cost (credits):                600
          Tech Level:                    13
          Law    Level:                  5

        Auto Rifle (7 mm)
          Because of its automatic firing capability, the 7
        mm auto rifle is restricted by most worlds in the
        Spinward Marches.  During combat, the weapon
        must  be  reloaded  frequently  because  the  ammunition
        clip  holds  only  20  rounds.

          Rounds:                        20
          Penetration Factor:            3
          Damage:                        3
          Weight (Kg):                   4.6
          Cost (credits):                400
          Tech Level:                    6
          Use    Level:                  3

   Gauss Rifle (4 mm)
     The 4 nun Gauss rifle is considered the  state-of-
     the-art direct fire slug thrower.  Using the same
     technology as the Gauss pistol, it fires a needle
     shaped projectile through an electromagnetic field
     at a velocity of up to 1500 meters per second.  The
     weapon is a good value, considering its fully
     automatic firing capabilities and high penetration
     factor.  It is a very effective rifle against armored
     opponents.  The Gauss rifle is a very rare weapon,
     and can only be purchased on high tech worlds.

       Rounds:                       40
       Penetration Factor:           7
       Damage:                       3
       Weight (Kg):                  3.9
       Cost (credits):               1500
       Tech Level:                   12
       Law Level:                    3

     Shotgun (18 mm)
       The shotgun is a powerful weapon, not built for
     accuracy, but for shock effect at short range.  The
     shotgun fires shells containing a large number of
     tiny pellets which travel at 350 meters per second.
     A 10-round clip is loaded under, and parallel to, the
     gun's barrel.  While the shotgun is very powerful, it
     has a low penetration factor. it is nearly useless
     against most forms of armor.

       Rounds:                       10
       Penetration Factor:           1
       Damage:                       4
       Weight (Kg):                  5.5
       Cost (credits):               500
       Tech Level:                   4
       Law Level:                    7

    Sub-machine Gun (9 mm)
      The sub-machine gun is a small, lightweight
    automatic weapon. A 30-round magazine is loaded
    in the underside of the weapon.  It is much easier to
    smuggle this weapon through starport checkpoints
    as opposed to some of the  larger  automatic  rifles.
    The sub-machine gun is a favorite among ex-
    military adventurers and rebels on lower tech
    worlds that can  not  afford  advanced  or  expensive
    armament.

      Rounds:                       30
      Penetration Factor:           3
      Damage:                       3
      Weight (Kg):                  3
      Cost (credits):               500
      Tech Level:                   5
      Law Level:                    3

    Assault Rifle (5 mm)
      This weapon is similar to but lighter and less
    expensive than the auto rifle.  It fires a projectile at
    velocities of up to 900 meters per second.  A 30-
    round clip is loaded into the underside of this fully
    automatic rifle.  Ammunition is  inexpensive  and  is
    purchased by the clip.  The assault weapon is not
    permitted on most worlds with a law level of three.
    It is difficult to smuggle the weapon past starport
    checkpoints.

      Rounds:                       30
      Penetration Factor:           3
      Damage:                       3
      Weight (Kg):                  4.6
      Cost (credits):               400
      Tech Level:                   7
      Law Level:                    4

   Accelerator Rifle (6 mm)
     Designed specifically for Zero-G combat, the
   accelerator rifle fires a small bullet at an initial
   muzzle velocity of 100 to 150 meters per second,
   and upon leaving the barrel is accelerated by a
   secondary propelling charge to velocities of 700 to
   800 meters per second.  A 15-round magazine is
   inserted in the bottom of the weapon in front of the
   trigger guard.

     Rounds:                      15
     Penetration Factor:          3
     Damage:                      3
     Weight (Kg):                 3
     Cost (credits):              900
     Tech Level:                  9
     Law Level:                   4

   Advanced  Combat  Rifle   (7 mm)
     More sophisticated than the assault rifle, the
   advanced combat rifle fires an explosive bullet at a
   velocity of 900 meters per second.  The weapon is
   fully automatic, and ammunition is purchased in 20-
   round clips.  It can be bought only on high tech
   worlds with a low law level.

     Rounds:                      20
     Penetration Factor:          3
     Damage:                      3
     Weight (Kg):                 3.4
     Cost (credits):              800
     Tech.Level:                  10
     Law Level:                   3

   Light Assault Gun (LAG)
     This heavy rifle requires a sling to assist in its
     firing.  It blasts a 20 mm shell at velocities of 400 to
     500 meters per second.  Although the weapon is
     cumbersome, it has a high penetration factor and is
     effective against armored opponents.

                 Rounds:                     5
                 Penetration Factor:         8
                 Damage:                     4
                 Weight (Kg):                4.5
                 Cost (credits):             6oo
                 Tech.  Level:                8
                 Law Level:                  4

                       Personal Energy Weapons

              Personal energy weapons are activated by power
          packs that are worn on the body.  These power packs
          energize a weapon and allow it to fire a set number of
          rounds.  Personal energy weapons are found only on
          high tech worlds, and are restricted by most law levels.
          Some of the more powerful energy weapons are used
          for military purposes.  Energy weapons have excellent
          penetrating power and are very effective against ar-
          mored foes.  Recharging can be done in your ship or for
          a small fee at a hypermarket.

             Laser Carbine (TL 13)
               The laser carbine, powered by a backpack, fires
             high-powered energy bolts.  As in all energy weap-
             ons, the power pack is connected to the weapon
             by a strong cable, The laser carbine fires a 9 mm
             concentrated energy beam that is aimed with an
             optic sight.

     Rounds:                        100
     Penetration Factor:            12
     Damage:                        3
     Weight (Kg):                   5.9
     Cost (credits):                4,000
     Tech Level:                    13
     Law Level:                     2

     Laser Pistol (TL 13)
       The laser pistol functions in the same way as the
     laser carbine, but it is lighter and does not penetrate
     as well as other laser  weapons.

     Rounds:                        100
     Penetration Factor:            6
     Damage:                        3
     Weight (Kg):                   3.2
     Cost (credits):                3,000
     Tech Level:                    13
     Law Level:                     2

  Laser Rifle (TL 13)
     The laser rifle is the standard high-energy
  weapon.  It is heavier and more powerful than the
  laser carbine.  The fire fires a concentrated beam of
  energy that strikes a target with an intense burst of
  light and heat.

     Rounds:                        100
     Penetration Factor:            20
     Damage:                        3
     Weight (Kg):                   10.8
     Cost (credits):                8,000
     Tech Level:                    13
     Law Level:                     2

                       High-Energy Weapons

          High-energy  weapons  fire  beams   of   superheated
     plasma.  They cause extensive damage because of their
     intense heat and kinetic energy.  All high-energy weapons
     require a power source,

          PGMP (Plasma Gun Man Portable TL 13)

            The PGMP  is  eneraized  by  a  portable  power  pack
          that connects to the weapon  via  a  flexible  power
          link.  The power pack utilizes a laser ignition  system
          to heat hydrogen fuel into a plasma state.  The
          plasma is then fired through a magnetic field.  One
          powerful plasma bolt is fired for each pull of  the
          trigger.  It is one of the  most  powerful  weapons  a
          person can use; very few forms of armored protection
          can withstand a blast from it.  It can be found
          only on high tech level worlds with exceptionally
          low law levels.  Battle Dress must  be  worn to  use
          this weapon.  Periodic  maintenance  and  refueling  is
          required.

            Rounds:                       Unlimited
            Penetration Factor:           25
            Damage:                       13
            Weight (Kg):                  16
            Cost (credits):               65,000
            Tech Level:                   13
            Law Level:                    2

          FGMP (Fusion Gun Man Portable TL 14)
            The  FGMP  is  the  most  powerful  weapon  that  a
          traveller can carry. it is more powerful than a
          plasma gun, and it  may  be  used  only  by  individuals
          wearing battle dress.  The  FGMP  is  a  devastating
          weapon that causes extensive damage.  Like the
          PGMP, the FGMP requires periodic maintenance
          and refueling.

            Rounds:                        Unlimited
            Penetration Factor:            34
            Damage:                        16
            Weight (Kg):                   19
            Cost (credits):                100,000
            Tech Level:                    14
            Law Level:                     2

                      Grenade Launchers

        This classification includes any weapon which fires
   a grenade that explodes upon impact.

        4 cm RAM Auto GL-11
          The 4 cm RAM  Auto GL-11 is a dangerous and
        highly restricted weapon.  They are only found on
        worlds that have no laws.  This is a very effective
        weapon because it can damage a group of enemies
        as opposed to a single target.  Also, this grenade
        launcher can fire grenades over obstacles such as
        walls, trees, or rocks.

          Rounds:                        3
          Penetration Factor:            36
          Damage:                        8
          Weight (Kg):                   3
          Cost (credits):                800
          Tech Level:                    11
          Law Level:                     1


                Melee Weapons (Hand to Hand)

         Even though we are in the advanced age of high-
     energy laser and plasma weapons, the very basic
     weapons, used for thousands of years, still play a part
     in today's combat.  Some worlds have restrictions
     imposed by their governments that forbid any weapons
     except for knives and swords.  Hand-to-hand weapons
     can not be thrown at an opponent.  They can be used
     only for close range fighting.  All melee weapons are
     constructed of sturdy, high-grade steel.

         Dagger

         A small, double edged weapon that can vary in
         style, workmanship and length.  Most daggers are
         approximately 200 mm in  length.

          Penetration Factor:            2
          Damage:                        2
          Weight (Kg):                   0.2
          Cost (credits):                10
          Tech Level:                    1
          Law Level:                     9

         Sword

         The sword is the most common hand held
         combat weapon.  On several low tech worlds, the
         sword is commonly used as the main armament of
         militant forces.  Through the centuries, the sword
         has been a symbolic, decorative weapon worn by
         many nobles and upper class citizens.  Swords are
         forged in a variety of styles and sizes, with single or
         double  edged  blade  conscruction.

          Penetration Factor:            4
          Damage:                        2
          Weight (Kg):                   I
          Cost (credits):                150
          Tech Level:                    1
          Law Level:                     9

                           Starships

     There are eight classes of starships in the game.  For the
     most part, your party will only be able to acquire, or
     purchase, a Scout/Courier or a Trader.  The rest of these
     ships will be encountered as you joumey through the
     spaceways.

         Scout/Courier
           One of the most common starships in the Imperium is
         the Scout/Courier.  This sleek, simple, lightly armed and
         highly maneuverable ship is used for exploration and
         survey duties.  It has fuel scoops and a purification plant.

           Tech Level:                    15
           Cost (credits):                28,938,000-(new)
           Hull Size:                     100
           Jump:                          2
           Acceleration:                  2 G
           Number of Hardpoints:          1
           Fuel Tankage:                  40 tons
           Cargo Capacity:                3 tons

        Far Trader

          The Far Trader is  the basic ship involved in trade.
        A Far Trader's primary purpose is to deliver cargo in
        and between systems.  To defend against suspected
        pirate raids, all trading ships are built with one
        or several hardpoints for the installation of weapon
        systems.

          Tech Level:                     15
          Cost      (credits):            41,070,000 (new)
          Hull Size:                      200
          Jump:                           2
          Acceleration:                   1 G
          Number of Hardpoints:           2
          Fuel Tankage:                   50 tons
          Cargo      Capacity:            61 tons

        System Defense Boat

          The System Defense Boat is a non-jump military
        vessel stationed in important systems and charged
        with their defense;  it is used for customs
        inspections, piracy suppression and nominal safety patrols.
        
        Tech Level:                   15
        Cost (credits):               311,110,000 (new)
        Hull  Size:                   400
        Jump:                         0
        Acceleration:                 6 G
        Number of Hardpoints:         4
        Fuel Tankage:                 160 tons
        Cargo Capacity:               2 tons

     Cargo Liner

        Using a 3000 ton hull, the Cargo Liner is a
     main-route cargo vessel employed in freight trans-
     portation activities throughout the Imperium.
     The Cargo Liner can carry 1259 tons of cargo; it
     requires a crew of 15 and can carry up to 10
     passengers.

        Tech Level:                   15
        Cost (credits):               809,010,000 (new)
        Hull  Size:                   3000
        Jump:                         4
        Acceleration:                 1 G
        Number of Hardpoints:         10
        Fuel Tankage:                 1240tons
        Cargo Capacity:               1259 tons


        Passenger Liner
          Using  a 1000 ton hull, the Passenger Liner is a main-route
        passenger transport serving much of the Imperium.   Built
        sturdily and intended to last in service for decades, the
        Passenger Liner has 50 staterooms and six emergency low
        passage berths.  The ship normally carries 24 high passage
        and 12 middle passage passengers.

        Tech Level:                    15
        Cost   (credits):              526,400,000 (new)
        Hull Size:                     1000
        Jump:                          4
        Acceleration:                  1 G
        Number of Hardpoints:          5
        Fuel Tankage:                  440 tons
        Cargo Capacity:                130tons

        Close Escort
         Close Escorts patrol the spaceways, protecting ships
        from pirates.  Whether they are patrols in the hope
        flying in routine of catching pirates or in convoys with
        other ships, the Close Escort is an ideal small craft
        for the protection of merchant traffic.

        Tech Level:                   14
        Cost (credits):               301,370,000 (new)
        Hull Size:                    400
        Jump:                         4
        Acceleration:                 4 G
        Number of Hardpoints:         4
        Fuel Tankage:                 81 tons
        Cargo Capacity:               6 tons

     Pinnace
        Plying the lanes between planets are the small craft
     which run errands, make small deliveries, and generally do
     much of the dirty work that the larger craft can't or won't
     do.  The Pinnace can carry eight passengers and has a cargo
     hold for 10 tons.

         Tech Level:                    15
         Cost (credits):                21,150,000 (new)
         Hull Size:                     40
         Jump:                          0
         Acceleration:                  5 G
         Number of Hardpoints:          1
         Fuel Tankage:                  9 tons
         Cargo Capacity:                10 tons

       Ship's Boat
         The Ship's Boat is a small vessel ordinarily carried
       aboard a larger ship to perform odd jobs and minor operations.
       A Ship's Boat is incapable of interstellar flight;
       it masses 30 tons and is constructed at tech level 9.

         Tech Level:                    15
         Cost (credits):                20,120,000 (new)
         Hull Size:                     30
         Jump:                          0
         Acceleration:                  6 G
         Number of Hardpoints:          1
         FuelTankage:                   9 tons
         Cargo Capacity:                6 tons



                    Starship  Weapons

       If one of your characters acquired a ship  during  the
   character generation process, or  if  you  have  purchased
   a ship in the game, you have the ability to arm  the  ship
   with high-tech weapons.  Weaponry is allocated to
   turrets.  Each turret uses one hardpoint.  When equip-
   ping turrets, the price is paid for the weapon (three
   weapons can be placed in one turret).  Turrets come
   with the weapons and are not purchased separately.

       In Mega Traveller 2, you can upgrade your turrets
   and buy sophisticated lasers that fire concentrated
   beams of energy at enemy targets, causing damage by
   intense light and heat.

       There are two types of turrets that can be pur-
   chased for your ship.  Each turret can have 1, 2 or 3
   weapons (beam laser or pulse laser,  but  not  both).  The
   turrets that can be  purchased  are:

       Beam Laser Turret           TL   Power        Cost
       -----------------------------------------------------
       BLaser (one weapon)         13     250      1,000,000
       BLaser (two weapons)        13     500      2,000,000
       BLaser (three weapons)      13     750      3,000,000

       Pulse Laser Turret          TL   Power        Cost
       ------------------------------------------------------
       PLaser (one weapon)         13     250        500,000
       PLaser (two weapons)        13     500      1,000,000
       PLaser (three weapons)      13     750      1,500,000

       Beam lasers, which fire one concentrated beam of
   energy, are more effective and more expensive.  Pulse
   lasers, which fire at targets in bursts, are still very
   powerful but less costly than  beam  lasers.
   
                          Vehicles

       You can rent two types of vehicles - the Tracked
    ATV and the Grav Vehicle.  Either can be obtained at
    vehicle rental locations.  Entering and exiting vehicles
    can be accomplished from the Globe icon on the
    interface screen.

       Tracked ATV
         An ATV is a standard vehicle designed to traverse
       most terrain that would normally prohibit movement
       on foot.  Although quite reliable in most situations,
       the ATV does have its limitations.  It is not capable
       of travelling over mountains, crevices and craters,
       and it cannot float on water.  The heavy ATV, powered
       by a standard internal combustion engine, is capable
       of high speeds.  Although some military versions exist,
       the ATV is mainly used for exploration and travel purposes.
       Although it is not as capable as a Grav Vehicle, it is
       easier to operate and less expensive to rent.

     Grav Vehicle
        The Grav Vehicle is the most capable planetary vehicle.  It is
        used only by the most formidable terrain, such as elevated
        mountaintops.  The Grav Vehicle is extremely heavy because of
        its protective armor plating.  It is capable of high speeds and
        can carry up to 10 persons.  The demand for these vehicles is
        high, and rental prices are steep.

Rygar'92



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
