

POPULOUS

DOCUMENTS TYPED BY THE JESTER

INTRODUCTION

As a Divine Being...

You have a group of followers from whom you derive your power. The more
followers you have and the greater their achievements, the more power you
wield. Unfortunately, there is another group of people who follow a different
deity. Since there's barely enough room in the world for your own
magnificence,
two won't do. You must rid the world of the opposition. To do this, you will
use your great power to move the earth and your devout followers to crush the
misguided.

TUTORIAL - A predefined game that allows you to test our your various powers.

CONQUEST - Conquest consists of nearly 500 fixed worlds, with each world
getting progressively harder. You'll start on Genesis. Once you've defeated
the
opposition, you're given the name of a more challenging world. The next world
you go to depends on the final score in your previous game. The higher the
score, the more difficult a world you're given (to match your skills). You
must
defeat your opponent in a world before you can advance to the next one.
 Choose from START GAME to start the game or NEW GAME to enter the name of a
new world. When you play in Conquest mode, you're always the Good supreme
being. Before you enter each world, you'll get a briefing on the world's
landscape, your enemy, and other helpful game information
Note:You cannot change any game play options or use paint map in conquest
mode.

CUSTOM - The custom game lets you modify over 60 game parameters, design your
own worlds and even play another human opponent on another computer via modem
or datalink cable.

                               TUTORIAL MODE  
                               -------------

 In the top left corner of the screen you have the Book of Worlds, this is a
small map of the entire world that you are fighting over. The small black and
white cross shows you where the centre of the Closeup map is. You will find
that the cross is currently in the top corner of the map. Click on the Book of
Worlds to move the closeup map directly to that point, this is the quickest
way of moving around. Look for the blue dots, these are your people. Using the
left mouse button click on one of the 8 directional arrows and scroll the
closeup map around.
 Using the Zoom to Leader icon you will find that the closeup map is centred
on
your leader, the one carrying the Ankh. The leader is vital to the control of
your people, as he is the only Walker that you can directly advise and
control.
Using the Zoom to Leader icon is very important to your ability to move
quickly
around the map amd for your monitoring of the progress of your people.
 Next you should locate the Evil leader, use the map and look around the
middle
left side, you will see some red dots, these are the Evil walkers. The Evil
leader carries the small skull with him.
 Zoom to your leader, click on the Query icon and then click on your leader
with the top left corner of the shield. This shows the strength of your leader
in the two bars in the bottom right corner of the large information shield.
See
the Query section about shields for more details. Now find the Evil leader,
place and leave the shiled on him. This allows you to see how strong he is and
also to watch what he gets up to.
 Click on the Raise and Lower Land icon, then zoom to your leader and see
what's happening. Then click on the Zoom to Shield icon, this now allows you
to
find and trace the Evil leader. Zoom to your leader again.
 Unpause the game by clicking on the Pause icon, your leader and people will
now walk about until they find some flat land to build on. As soon as they
find
it they will build a house. The type of house depends upon the area of
surrounding flat land that can support the building. The small huts can be
supported by 1 or 2 areas of land whereas a castle requires large areas to
support it.
 Click on the Raise and Lower Land icon;this gives you a hand pointer. Place
the pointer in the closeup map near to your leader, so that the small black
and
white cross is at the top of an angular piece of land, then click the right
mouse button to remove that lump of land. This is the standard mode that you
play the game in, you raise with the left button and lower with the right
button. Raise and lower land so that areas of flat land appear, on to which
your people can settle.
 You should now have mastered the basic techniques needed to play the game.
Zoom to sield and see what the Evil leader is doing, the Evil people will be
building flat land and building bigger houses. These are exactly the things
that you should do to expand your domain. Click on the Place Papal Magnet
icon,
this now gives you a small Ankh cursor with a small black and white cross,
place the cross in the bottom corner of an Evil building and click the left
button. This will place your Papal Magnet in that building. Click on the Go To
Papal Magnet mode, your people will now walk towards your leader and your
leader will walk towards the Papal Magnet.
 Scroll the closeup map so that you can watch your leader as he walks towards
the Papal Magnet, people should walk to your leader and join up with him. When
he gets about half way to the Evil lands, click on the Settle mode icon, he
should now build a house on the nearest flat land, as should all your other
people. Raise and lower land so that there a number of buildings on the
screen.
Try and make at least one of them into a round tower or castle, make sure that
the leader is in a castle. The leader is in the building with the Ankh next to
it.
 Check that the pointer by the Manna Bar is past the Knight icon, if it is,
then click on the Knight Divine Intervention icon, however if it isn't then
you
must wait intil the pointer reaches that point. Continue if it is not past the
Quake icon. When you knight your leader, you turn him and the building he is
in, into a free spirit fighting force. Your knight is not under your control
and will not follow the instructions that the rest of your people do. As you
create a knight you will find that the Papal Magnet is moved to the point at
which your leader was knighted, this is the same effect as when your leader is
killed. Click on the Go To Papal Magnet mode so that your people will go to
the
magnet and create a new leader.
 Zoom to Knight, to find out where your knight is. You should find that he has
walked off towards the Evil people and may have started attacking them. Follow
your knight and see what destruction he causes to the buildings. When a knight
destroys a house he also destroys the land that surrounds it; this is shown by
the darker patchwork land that appears after the knight has been through.
 Go into Settle Mode so that your people start expanding their lands, click on
the Book of Worlds, find some of your people and create land for them so that
they continue to thrive and build houses. This is vital part of every game.
You
must make sure that your people are supplied with flat land to build on. Every
now and then in the game you must return to your people and create some new
terrain on to which they can settle.
 Find an area in the Evil land that is covered in nice red buildings, make
sure
that you have this in the closeup map and then click on the Earthquake special
effects icon. this will shake the ground and destroy buildings in that area.
 Place your Papal Magnet in the Evil lands, preferably in one of his houses.
Then click on Go to Papal Magnet mode so that your people walk towards his
lands and start attacking his people. When your people get into his lands,
click on Fight mode; this tells your people to attack any enemy that they can
find and then build houses.
 You have now mastered the Tutorial Mode and can start Conquest mode.

                            GAME PLAY SCREEN
                            ----------------

This screen contains all the controls you'll need to impose dominion over any
world. The screen is divided up into five parts: Book of Worlds, Closeup map,
Manna Bar, Information Shield, and Command Icons.

Book of Worlds: This shows you the entire world you're in. The crosshair shows
you where you're currently viewing. The red dots are the Evil walkers and the
dark grey dots are Evil settlements. The blue dots are the Good walkers and
the
white dots are Good settlements. Light grey dots are rocks. Click on any spot
on the Book of Worlds to bring up the immediate are on the Closeup Map.

Closeup Map: This is the area of the world you can directly influence using
your Command Icons: add or remove layers of terrain, invoke a catastrophe,
guide your followers, etc. See the "Closeup Map" section for details on what
you'll see on this map.

Manna Bar: The Manna Bar shows a series of icons; these icons are your Divine
Intervention Icons. The Raise and Lower land icon on the far left requires the
least manna to do, while Armageddon on the far right requires the most. The
arrow next to the Manna Bar marks what Divine Intervention Icons that you can
use: you have the power to invoke any command to the left of the marker. The
more manna you gather the farther the marker will move right, and the more
commands you can execute.

Shield Summary: The shield gives information on the current size of the two
populations and the status of the shield bearer. See "Query" in the Command
Icons section for complete details.

Command Icons: These icons control game play. See the Command Icons section
for
complete details.

                              Closeup Map 
                              -----------

Here are the things you'll see on your Closeup Map:

Papal Magnet. the Papal Magnet is your sacred symbol. If you're Evil the Papal
Magnet is a Skull, if you're Good it's an Ankh. The Papal Magnet is the focus
point through which you can control your leader and walkers.

People. There are three types of people in Populous. To find out the status of
a character, use the "Query" Command Icon.

Walkers: Walkers are your primary population. Walkers do whatever you tell
them: follow the leader and Papal Magnet, fight the enemy, settle in an area,
etc. Use the Influence Behaviour Commands (described in the Command Icons
section)to tell them what to do. Any time two of your walkers bump into each
other, they combine to make one stonger walker. The strength of the walker
depends on the numbers of members in the group and the weapons that they use.
As the game progresses walkers will become more intelligent.

Leader: You can only have one leader in existence at a time. This is the first
person who touches the papal magnet. Think of him as a High Priest. You always
start a game with a leader.

Knight: If you have enough manna, you can turn your leader into a knight.
Knights are fighting machines. They look for the enemy walkers or settlements,
kill people amd burn down settlements. The knight will continue to
systematically destroy the enemy until he has been killed. You can have as
many
knights as you have manna to make, though they may join together to form a
single stronger knight.

Miniature Papal Magnet. A miniature Papal Magnet is always attached to your
leader so that you can identify him.

Settlements. Settlements range from primitive huts to intricate castles.
Castles are errected in areas of 5x5 or more contiguous fields. Once a walker
settles he builds the largest settlements he can, determined by the proportion
of that 5x5 land which is flat. Castles increase your population the fastest
but they also take the longest to fill. Walkers youe ever-important pioneers,
will not emerge from a settlement until it is full. As long as walkers do not
emerge, you will have nobody searching for new flat lands to settle on(and
proliferate!). There are good and bad points to having a large settlement as
there are for small settlements. As an omnipotent being, you must decide which
is the best move to make.

Terrain. Terrain varies from world to world. Games take place on worlds that
range from hot deserts to ice masses, with each terrain type affecting the
game
in different ways. i.e Walkers die faster in the desert, on Ice Worlds
population increases more slowly and there are no technology levels.

                            COMMAND ICONS                           
                            -------------

To turn a command on or off, click on the icon. When a command is on, the
square is highlighted
Game Control Icons
------------------
These commands let you get general game play information

FX -Sound effects. Turns the sound effects on or off.

Music notes -Music. Turns the music on or off

zzZZ - Pause. Turns the game pause on or off.

Game Setup
Click on this icon to bring up your game play options. Next to each of mthe
following options is a square button. Click on the button to turn it on or
off.

When the button is out, the option is off.
When the button is in, the option is on.

One Player - Play against the computer
Two Player - Play against another player via modem or Datalink. See the "Two
Player Game" section for complete details.
Play Game  - Select this and then click on OK to resume the game.
Paint Map  - Select this and then click on OK to use paint map mode. When you
use this option, the game pauses. Here are the keys you can use in paint mode

<F1>       Place Good Walker.        
<F2>       Place Evil Walker.
<F3>       Place tree or plant; press <F3> again on the same spot to cycle
           through the selection of trees and plants.
<F4>       Place rocks; press <F4> again on the same spot to cycle through the

           selection of rocks.
<F5>       Remove an object or person from the screen.
<F6>       Increase manna for Good.
<F7>       Increase manna for Evil.
<F8>       Mirror the landscape (make symmetrical).
<DEL>      Clear the landscape of all terrain.
<SH+F1>    Place Good leader.
<SH+F2>    Place Evil leader.
<SH+F6>    Lower manna for Good.
<SH+F7>    Lower manna for Evil.
<1-4>      Select the landscape types.


Good                    You control the good guys.
Evil                    You control the bad guys.
Human vs Computer       You play against the computer.
Computer vs Computer    To watch the computer battle itself, choose this. You 

                        must choose a side; this is the side whoses actions
                        you'll view in detail. Although the computer is set to
                        fight itself, you can intervene at any time. Just
issue
                        a command the same way you would in a regular game.
The
                        computer moves pretty fast, so don't be surprised if
                        you move the papal magnet and the computer immediatley
                        moves it somewhere else.

Conquest - Play the conquest game. This brings up the World to Conquer
requester. Click on Start Game to accept the world described or click on New
Game, type in another name and then press Return.
Custom - Play a custom game. Choose this if you want to create your own maps
or
experiment with the various oppositions. Set the options you want and then
click OK.
Game Options - This brings up a requester with five options. The options you
choose affect both players:
 
  Water is fatal. Fatal automatically kills everything that falls in the
water.
With this option off, you have the opportunity to save people.
  Swamps Shallow. A person falling into a shallow swamp dies and the swamp
disappears. Bottomless swamps don't disappear afetr someone falls into them.
  Cannot build. Neither side can raise or lower a thing. This overides the two
other build options.
  Build up and down. Build up and down lets you build and remove terrain. If
you turn this off, you can only add terrain.
  Build near people/towns. Determines if you can change the landscape when
there is a person on the screen or if you must have the flag from a town on
the
Closeup Map in oreder to change the landscape.

Save a Game - This brings up a save game requester, this will catalogue the
disk and list any saved games. Click in the File Name box and type in the file
name followed by return or click on the name in the catalogue list. Click on
the Save box to save the game to disk. If you are using a second drive or want
to use a directory other than the root directory then click in the directory
box and type in the details i.e. df1:name, this will then recatalogue the
relevant disk.

Load a Game - This brings up a load game requester, this will catalogue the
disk and list any saved games. Click in the File Nmae box and type in the file
name followed by return or click on the name in the catalogue list. Click on
the LOad box to load the game from disk. If you are using a second drive or
want to use a directory other than the root directory then click in the
directory box and type in the details i.e df1:, this will then recatalogue the
relevant disk.

Move to Next Map - This brings up a random map that you and your opponent can
fight over. The map is unrelated to those in your Conquest series. Selecting
this option while in conquest mode is equivalent to selecting Restart this
Map.

Restart this Map - This starts the game all over again for the current map;
any
alterations that you've made will not appear.

Surrender this Game - In Conquest mode, this lets you surrender the game; you
will have to replay in this world again before you can continue to the next
world. In all the other modes, it lets you quit the game and go to a new
world.

Game Balance
Click on this icon with the left mouse button to bring up your options. Click
on it with the right mouse button to bring up your opponents options. You can
make each of the following available or unavailable by clicking on the square
next to it:

 Can modify Land
 Can attack Towns
 Can attack Leader
 Can use Earthquakes
 Can use Swammp
 Can use Knight
 Can use Volcano
 Can use Flood
 Can use Armageddon

At the bottom of the screen are the settings for Aggression and Rate. Click
anywhere inside the bar to set the level.

Aggression - The higher the setting, the more the computer will attempt to
invade your land. Aggresion has no effect on a human player since you
obviously
can't dictate how aggressively he or she will play.

Rate - Sets the rate that new population is added to settlements. The faster
the setting, the faster a computer opponent will gain manna and proliferate.
The computer may seem almost impossible to beat when this is set to maximum.
Click on OK to accept these options and to continue with the game. Note : In
conquest mode you cannot alter any of the above.

Message
If you're playing a two player game, either by modem or Datalink, then
choosing
this icon will bring up a requester. Type in the message you would like to
send
to the other player(up to a maximum of 20 characters) and press <Return>. A
similar requester containing the message will appear on your opponent's
screen.
See the "Two Player Game" section for more details on playing against a human
opponent.

                          DIRECTION AND OBJECT ICONS
                          --------------------------

These icons let you control the movement of your Closeup Mapand find out
information on that map.
Direction Icons
Press any of the direction icons to move the Closeup Map one point in that
direction. You can use your numeric keypad in place of the direction icons,
but
the keypad is slower.
Query
Selecting this turns your cursor into a shield; use the shield to find out
information about people or settlements.
Using the top left corner of the shield, point at a person or at a flag flying
by a settlement and then press the left mouse button, this is then the shield
bearer. The Information Shield now fills with the following information on the
person or settlement:

Doing graphics with ed mode is bad so i will try to be brief (JESTER)

The top right hand corner of the screen is a shield with 4 sections plus 2
bars
either side.
                             _____________ 
                            | ||   |   || |
                            | || 1 | 2 || |
            This bar is Good| ||-------|| |This bar is Evil
                            | ||   |   || |
                            | || 3 | 4 || |
                                \  |  /              
                                 \_|_/

 Quadrant 1: This shows which side this information is for: Ankh for
Good,Skull
for Evil.
 Quadrant 2: The more primitive the settlement, the more primitive the weapon.
Fists and clubs are primitive, while crossbows and swords are more advanced.
 Quadrant 3: This is the subject that the shield is attached to.
 Quadrant 4: The information here depends on the subject. If you're viewing a
settlement, the left bar (yellow) represents the size/strength and defensive
value compared to a full castle. The green bar shows how close this building
is
to turfing out a new walker.
When you're looking at a walker, the bars represent the strength of the
walker.
There are three bars representing a walker's strength, only 2 of these are
shown at any time. When the right-hand orange bar fills up, one small notch
appears on the left-hand side orange bar and the right-hand side bar
disappears. When both the orange bars fill up the display switches to show you
a yellow bar and an orange bar, these work in a similar manner except they are
higher values. A walker with a full yellow and orange bar is very tough.
When you are looking at someone in combat the bars show the relative strengths
of the two combatants.
The larger blue and red bars next to the shield represent the populations, the
higher the level, the more the populous you are.
The small shield icon stays attached to the walker or settlement to remind you
what you're looking at. If a walker with a shield enters a building then the
shield will transfer to that building. If a walker leaves a building with a
shield, the shield will transfer to that walker. If a walker dies the shield
will vanish, unless he dies in combat in which case the shield transfers to
his
opponent.

                         INFLUENCE BEHAVIOUR
                         -------------------

 Use these to control your followers.

Go to Papal Magnet
This causes your walkers to go to your leader who in turn goes to the papal
magnet. If you don't have a leader, your walkers will head directly for the
papal magnet; the first one to touch it will become your new leader. It is
worth noting that people will not touch the papal magnet unless they are in
this mode, however close they walk to it.
Settle
This commands your walkers to look for unsettled flat land, preferably
unexplored. Once there, a walker will build the largest settlement he can.
Gather Together
This makes your walkers look for other walkers or settlements. When a walker
bumps into another walker,they turn into a single, stronger walker. If they
can't find anything to join they will settle.
Fight
Tells your walkers to look for enemiesto attack. If no enemies are in the
vicinity ,the walker will just settle.
      
 
                           ZOOM ICONS
                           ----------

 These commands let you go straight to a particular place on the map. Each
time
you zoom to a new subjest the Information Shield will show a summary of that
subject, for about three seconds. After that, the Information Shield will go
back to showing information for the shield bearer. If you don't have a shield
bearer, the Information Shield will be blank.
Zoom to Leader or Papal Magnet
Click on this icon with the left button to show your leader on the Closeup
Map.
If you have no leader, you'll go to the papal magnet instead.
Press the right mouse button to go to your papal magnet on the Closeup Map.
Zoom to Knight or Settlements
Press the left mouse button to show your knight on the Closeup Map. If you
have
more than one knight, press the left mouse button repeatedly to cycle through
all of your available knights. If you have no knights, nothing will happen.
Press the right mouse button to repeatedly cycle through each of your
settlements.
Zoom to Battle
Each press of the left mouse button will cycle through each battle. If there
is
no battles taking place, nothing will happen.
Zoom to Shield
Press the left mouse button to show the shield bearer. Nothing will happen if
you haven't assigned the shield to a person or settlement. To assign the
shield
on a walker or settlement, use the "Query" Command Icon.


                           DIVINE INTERVENTION ICONS
                           -------------------------

 These are the same items that are on your Manna Bar. The ones you can execute
depend on the amount of manna you have; you can perform any divine
intervention
that is to the left of the arrow marker.
 It is very important to note that each of these actions require the
expenditure of manna to perform and that the pointer on the manna bar will
move
to the left as you perform these actions.
 Each of the following options are available unless turned off under Game
Setup.

Raise and Lower Land
This is the default mode. Place the hand anywhere on the Closeup Map and
press the left mouse button to raise the land under the floating cross and the
right mouse button to lower the land. You must have a walker or a settlement
for this to work.

Place Papal Magnet
This lets you place your Papal Magnet anywhere on the Map. The Papal Magnet
acts as a beacon for your followers.
Click on the Place Magnet Icon and then click anywhere on the Closeup Map to
plant it. To replant the Papal Magnet, click on the Place Papal Magnet Icon
and
click on any new location; the Papal Magnet will move to the new location.
You must have a leader to relocate the Papal Magnet. You start the game with a
leader, but if he dies, the first person to touch the Papal Magnet becomes
your
leader.
If your leader dies or is knighted, the Papal Magnet moves to the spot where
this happened

Earthquake
This causes the area in the Closeup Map to be randomly shaken up, destroying
buildings and drowning people caught up in its effects. Be sure not to
earthquake your people or settlements.

Swamp
This creates a swamp in any flat area. Anyone falling into the swamp will
drown. If you selected the "swamps bottomless" option the swamp will
remainafter it swallows somebody; the only way to get rid of it is to bury it
by raising the land, or dig it out by lowering the land. If you don't select
the bottomless option, the swamp will disappear once someone has fallen into
it.

Knight
This causes your leader to be knighted. As a knight, he will look for the
enemy, kill them, burn down settlements and destroy their crop fields. The
knight will systematically destroy the enemy until he has been killed.
Remember, when you knight a leader, you no longer have a leader, which is why
the Papal Magnet jumps to the knight. Have a walker touch the Papal Magnet to
make a new leader.
You can have as many knights as you have the manna to make.

Volcano
This causes the area in the Closeup Map to be raised up to a considerable
height, destroying all buildings and creating rocks over the affected area. It
requires A great deal of time and manna to repair the effects of a volcano. In
order to get rid of the rocks, you must remove the terrain until you get down
to water; then you can rebuild.

Flood
Raises the sea level by one over the entire landscape. If water is set to
fatal, everything caught in the deluge will die. If not, you have the chance
to
work quickly to save your drowning population.

Armageddon
Both Papal Magnets are moved to the centre of the world and both populations
uproot their homes and head to the Magnets, building land if necessary to
cross
water. Once there, they fight to the last.
Once you select Armageddon,you cannot alter the flow of events in any way, so
make sure your population heavily outnumbers your enemies before invoking this
command.


                                 COMBAT
                                 ------

 Since you don't directly control your people, there's not much you can do in
the way of instigating or controlling a fight. As an instigator you can select
the "Fight" icon; your peolpe will look for enemies they can attack beofre
settling. Alternatively you can direct your troops to the Papal Magnet which
is
strategically placed in an enemy settlement.
 When your people enter combat,they'll fight until their strength bar is
completely drained; at that point they die. The "Gather Together" Icon is a
good command to use to make your people stronger.It tells people to combine to
create a single, stronger person who will stand longer in battle. When you win
a game in Conquest mode, you will see the Demonic presence who informs you
status and the name of the next world to conquer.


                               DIVINE TIPS
                               -----------

To reach the goal of ultimate ruler in this game, you'll want to do two
things:
build your population and chip away at the enemy's population. This section
has
tips that can help you reach ultimate rule.
SPREAD OUT
You can't divide and conquer if your followers are content with hanging out in
their huts all day. They need to keep building and moving. Use the commands
under Influence Behaviour Icons to control your people.
WORK THE EARTH
Terrain affects the people's ability to build and flourish. The flatter the
land is, the easier it is to build on. You'll want to smooth the area where
your people are trying to settle and ruin the land your enemy is trying to
use.
SETTLEMENTS : BIG vs SMALL
Big settlements take more time to build and populate. If you're in desperate
need of power, you won't to spend your manna in the construction industry.Big
settlements, however, have a higher defence value and higher technology level;
a big plus when the enemy is crawling into your territory. For a large
settlement, you need flat land that's clear of objects.
Small settlements are quicker to erect and populate. Having small villages
lets
you spread over a wider area faster. Unfortunately, huts are easier to conquer
than fortresses. To have small settlements, don't make the area completely
flat
or object free.

                              TWO PLAYER GAME
                              ---------------

There are two ways to play against a human opponent: using a modem to connect
to a remote player, or by using a null modem cable to connect the serial ports
of two computers.
To play in two player mode, both players will need original copies of
Populous.

Connecting in Datalink Mode
1. Get a null modem cable. You can probably find one from your local computer
store.
2. Disconnect both machines from their power supply.
3. Connect the cable between the serial ports of the two computers.
4. Reconnect the power supply to both machines.
5. Boot the game on both machines and select Custom Mode. When the main game
screen appears, click on the Game Setup Icon and then click on Two Players to
bring up the Startup Serial Requester.
6. The default baud rate is 9600. If you want to use a different baud rate for
the computers, click on the baud rate text box; a flashing cursor should
appear. Backspace over 9600, enter a new baud rate, and press <return>. The
baud rate must be the same for each computer.
7. Now go to Starting the two player game.

Connecting Modems in Voice Mode
If you and your opponent can plug phones into your modem, then you can connect
in voice mode.
1. Disconnect both machines from their power supply.
2. Connect the modem's serial cable to the computer. Then connect the modem to
the phone line; your phone should be connected to the modem.
3. Call your friend on the phone and boot the game on both machines, both
players should select Custom Mode.
4. When the main game appears, click on the Game Setup icon and then click on
Two Players. You'll see the Startup Serial Requester. Click on the button next
to "Datalink" and it will change to "Modem."
5. Next choose who is going to play good and evil, see Starting the Two Player
Game below.
6. You will see a text input box above Baud rate that says "Send Login." You
will also see a new button that says "Full serial checking."
7. Establish a data connection between the two computers by clicking in the
Send Login box.
8. One player should type ATD and press <Return>. The other player should then
type ATA in his Send Login box and press <Return>. This will cause the modem
to
send a carrier. Once the CD light on the modem lights up, the connection is
established and both players should wait a couple of seconds and put their
phones down. Now go to "Starting the Two Player Game."

STARTING THE TWO PLAYER GAME

First decide who will be Evil and who will be Good. If you want to be Evil,
click on the button next to "I am Good" and it should change to "I am Evil".
Unless you use a saved game, both players will start on the landscape which
the
Evil player is currently using. Both machines will use the evil players
options.
Using a Saved Landscape
If you want to use a saved landscape, then both players nust have the same
copy
of that landscape. If you're plaing with two identical computers connected via
datalink, just swap the disk from one computer to the other. Put the disk
containing the landscape you want to use into a drive and click on the Use
This
Landscape button. Use the Load Game requester to select the landscape and load
it.
If you want to play on equal terrain, create your own map using the paint map
mode and use Mirror Landscape to make a symmetrical terrain. You will also
have
to place any people in symmetrical positions.


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
