
Bloodnet from Microprose                                           11/06/93

                              -[ INTRO ]-
        You're Ransom Stark... a brilliant hacker with an attitude. You have
been tricked into becoming dinner for a vampire named Abraham Van Helsing. 
Now, the only thing coming between becoming a vampire and you is your neural 
link. Too bad the link will last for only a few days. The link gives you two
suggestions. Find Deirdre Tackett's WELL with the address "hope" to see if any 
of her text files can cure you and look through the notes on your hand-held 
computer. You don't have much time... can your skills in cyberspace save you?


                     -[ KEYBOARD COMMAND SUMMARY ]-
        
        1 - Calls up a menu comatining your character's stats. Also gives you 
            access to the inventory menu.
        F1 - Combat menu
        F2 - View menu: Look, examine, and use items. Also lets you search 
             the area and access your map. 
        F3 - Party menu: Dismiss or rest members of your group. 
        F4 - Deck menu: For connecting to cyberspace and examining your
             Deck Unit.
        F5 - Computer menu: Gives you commands for your hand-held computer.
        F6 - Game menu: Lets you turn sound off/on, save/load games, restart
             game, quit, and view the credits.
        ESC - Aborts menus and brings up a menu in cyberspace.              
        
                      -[ MOUSE COMMAND SUMMARY ]-
        Left Button - Go in the direction you are clicking in. Also puts stuff
                      you have picked up into your inventory. 
        Right Button - Click once to pick up stuff. A double-click will give
                       you a description of your location or item depending
                       on where you're mouse icon is.
        
        You can also bring up the F1-F6 menus by moving your mouse icon to the
        top of the screen.

                         -[ NOTES / COMMENTS ]-
        Here's something new and original (hehe... who ever heard of a vampire 
that hacks?). The only thing that got to me was the weird music. If you have 
any questions or comments, call us at The Septic Tank. 
                                            
                                            - The Dark One
