                         UTOPIA - INSTRUCTION BOOKLET

                           Original & Docs by Scout

          If you like this game, please consider buying the original


CHAPTER ONE - THE SCENARIO

`Movement in sector Y6 commander.'
`What is it?'
`Unknown. I estimate it to be a number of vehicles travelling at 200 kmh.
It's in the region of Kamzi City, and they're moving in this direction.
ETA fifteen minutes.'
`Assemble the Battle Council in room C6. Get me ground and air reconnaissance
reports now!'

Stepping into his office, Pacharelli closed his door and leaned against it,
taking a deep breath. `It could be an error in the monitoring equipment',
he thought. He knew it wasn't. He also knew it wasn't interference, it wasn't 
some of his own craft, and it wasn't a mistake. The attack the colony had 
been expecting for several weeks now seemed to be under way.

Taking another deep breath, he left his office, and hurried to the lift.
Coming out of the lift, he cleared his throat, knowing that any wavering in
his voice might be interpreted as uncertainty.
He reached Council Room 6, to be met by his assembled council, and numerous
computer operators.

`Air reconnaissance: report'
`As yet nothing has been sighted. However, spy reports suggest that...'
`Yes, I've read the reports. Ground reconnaissance: report.'
`Vehicles now indentified as Kamzi assault craft, all heavily armed.
New ETA: Ten minutes.'
`Defence, what's the status?'
`We're on full shield, full radar and all defence turrets are operational.
We are as prepared as we'll ever be.'
'Then, council, give me some defence stratagems.'

Jordans' deep Lurethan brogue filled the room. `I suggest we despatch a 
squadron of bombers to intercept them immediately. That way we can dispose of
them and avoid unduly worrying the people.'
`I disagree', interjected Delfi, her aggressive tone seeming somewhat
misplaced. `If we intercept them with bombers, then we leave the city
vulnerable to an air attack. Intercepting with tanks at ground level, whilst
preparing for an aerial battle would strike me as a more intelligent ap-
proach.'
`Engineering, how soon will the spaceships be ready for launch?'
`Five, maybe ten minutes.'
`Then it's academic. Red Alert status. Prepare all defences for immediate 
deployment, and also make sure that all evacuation craft are ready for
immediate use. Council, prepare for battle.'

`Enemy craft should be in combat range within two minutes. I am projecting 
visual onto main screen now.'

The screen cleared of the radar map and showed the view from one of the
reconnaissance cameras mounted outside the city. Five assault craft were
seen speeding across the ground, the rough terrain causing them no problems.
`Lieutenant Delfi, magnify one of the craft....... okay. Engineering, any 
information on those roof mounted missiles?'
`Nothing as yet, but we will have soon; scanners are showing massive amounts
of energy being converted of each of the craft, and I suspect that the 
missiles are being prepared for launch at any moment.....'

The five craft all launched their missiles before grinding to a halt, 
throwing up clouds of dust and gravel. Having stopped, they spun on the 
spot and headed back across the desert.
The screen changed, showing the large plan view of the city again, now with
five blips heading towards it. In an instant, five more blips appeared, this
time moving from within the city, to intercept the incoming missiles.
As they met, four of the blips disappeared, leaving the remaining six to
pass each other.

`They must have some sophisticated cloaking device on the missiles to enable 
them to get through. Divert power to all perimeter defences for maximum 
defensive efficiency.'
`Missile impact any second now.... Full screen on predicted perimeter
defence...'
The screen changed again to show the three missiles hurtling towards the 
cities defences. Base turrets were showering the missiles with fire, most 
missing as they spun and arced their erratic way onwards. One was hit, and
exploded into vast plumes of green smoke that, heavier than the atmosphere
of the planet, slowly fell to the surface to form an eerie green fog.
`What the....'
`Sensors are indicating a bacteria Commander, and if reaches any of the 
processors it's going to be in the system in minutes.'
`Close all processors and go to emergency air supplies. How long do we have?'
`Fourteen days of air, then we're in trouble.'
`Commander, the other missile.....'

Pacharelli turned to face the screen to see one of the missiles hit the
rerserve command centre, which then imploded leaving a mass of scaffolding
and wreckage.
`What the hell happend to defence? How did that missile get through. 
And where's the other?' 
`We've hit the first one, Commander. The seond got through because according
to our monitors and defence, it didn't exist.'
`Commander, you're not going to like this; there are four more groups of five
vehicles heading towards us. ETA on the first group is just five minutes.
Suggest we order the..'
`Evacuation of all civilian personnel. Agreed. Immediately.'

The third wave of missiles was now striking, and the other two were lining 
up to take advantage of the hole that the second wave had so effectively 
made in the colony defences.
`Commander, we've no change. There's no way we'll be able to neutralise 
the third wave. They've left us wide open. Unless we evacuate all staff now,
we'll be dead within the hour.'
`No. We'll stay and fight. There has to be a way to defeat them.'
Delfi was annoyed now. `Commander', she exclaimed, `With all due respect,
I don't see why we should all stay here and die just because you've got some
insane idea of going down with your ship. All civilians are evacuated, and 
if the remaining staff are evacuated now, the odds are we'll save at least
ninety percent of the colony population.'

Pacharelli tried to rationalise such an easy and effective assault on his 
city and he couldn't believe that his defences had been breached so fast. 
He hesitated a moment, then cleared his throat again.
`You're right. Signal the evacuation now. Set colony auto-destruct for 
ten minutes.'

He was, of course, the last to step into the passage leading to the 
evacuation craft. Behind him he could hear the sound of his colony being
thoroughly destroyed and razed. He stepped into the airlock, awaited the 
signal, and opened the door leading to the evacuation craft.
A second later, stepping out of the airlock, he was greeted by Livono, his
friend over many years of work for the Colony Project. Behind Livono, people
bustled by, carrying out their usual duties. It was as loud as any other 
busy office corridor.

`Well done Pachie, not a bad display', said Livono, handing Pacharelli 
a coffee. 
`No change... I was lousy. One destroyed colony, nine percent casualties.
No change. I'll never get the post.'
`You don't know that yet.'
`Come off it. I've no change. What did you manage?'
`Saved the colony with twelve percent causalties. But it's irrelevant.
Yours was an entirely different simulation. It was, if I'm not mistaken,
pretty much the exact circumstances and events leading up to the Evanreisna
Sector Four catastrophe twenty six years ago.'
`Nope, can't remember. You'll have to enlighten me.'
`Okay. The colony was lost there too, but with some differences. 
The Commander decided to stay on and fight, but couldn't figure out why
they had hit the reserve command centre instead of the active one. 
As it turned out, the reason was so that the command centre, and the council
staff, could be captured. They used them to access the Colony Program 
computers and provide other information.' Livono paused.
`And?'
`As an immediate consequence of the information they managed to extract, we
lost seventeen neighbouring planets and all the various research projects
being carred out on them. As an ongoing consequence we've lost the whole 
Sector Four, at a conservative estimate six thousand colonists, and so far
twenty nine planets and still counting. You got away with one lost colony
and four hundred casualties. Slight difference.'
`All the same, perhaps there is a way of saving the colony and going on 
to destroy the... what are they called...Kamzis, that's it.'
Livono thought for a second. `I doubt it. Classic text book mess up first
time round, that's for sure. C'mon, let's have a proper drink.'

Pacharelli took a deep brath and cleared his throat. He knocked on the door,
and heard a muffled sound from beyond it. Taking it for assent to enter, he
pushed the door open to be greeted by a long table, a chair on one side, 
and five on the other, occupied by various high ranking officers and 
division heads.

`Welcome Commander', said the tall man seated in the middle. Standing, he
offered an outstretched hand to Pacharelli.
`Allow me to introduce myself. I'm Senior Colony Project Commander Bossuet,
this is Senior Colony Social Administrator Torrapan, this is Senior Colony
Preservation Commander Spiranza....'
He nodded to each in turn.
`Senior Colony Psychiatrist Delfi you have already met of course, and finally
Senior Colony Project Director Coleman.'
Each nodded in turn as they were introduced, with only Delfi offering a 
`Hello'. Beyond the cursory nods. Bossuet was the first to spreak.
`We were all impressed with your performance yesterday. As you will probably
know by now, your simulation was based on the facts that we know about the
Evanreisna disaster.'
`Yes, I realise that now, but what I'm not certain of to any degree is why
that particular scenario. I mean, all the others were given colony crises
scenarios that were self contained.... like collapses of vital systems, 
or... or things like that. It's just that mine was so different from anything
that anyone else had to do.' Pacharelli paused for a second, and was about
to continue his questions when Delfi interrupted.
`Your colony adminstration skills are beyond question. The work you've been
doing on the Gata-Epsilon Space Station, and latterly on the associated
colonies, have left us in no doubt about that. What we didn't know about
was your battle logic. How you would react to a basic no win situation.
Your... I hesitate to use the word pig-headed....'
`I would prefer headstrong.'
`Quite. Your....headstrong nature is well documented, and commonly regarded
as one of your more predominant traits. What we needed to do was to put you 
in a sitatuion where it was obvious that you would wish to fight to the last
to defend the colony, but whether you would be able to recognise such a no 
win situation or not, and get out with as many people alive and as little 
physical loss as possible.'
Spiranza spoke next.
`In the event, you exceeded our expectations, actually saving the second 
highest number of people on that virtual reality simulation ever.'
`Who saved more?'
`Me, but that's not the point. You performed more than admirably, and as 
a consequence we are offering you the role of Colony Leader in the proposed
colonisation of the Omicron-Kappa planets orbiting the Rhebus sun.
`Now this is going to be a diffcult task, which involves the colonisation
of ten planets. Unfortunately, Rhebus is on the edge of the Open Systems,
and as such, the chances of the Vacullo Federation having outbases there 
are pretty good. This means as well as establishing the colonies, you are
likely to meet with resistance on some, or even all of the planets as you
progress. If you decide to decline this opportunity it won't be held against
you if you apply for another posting later.'
`Here', said Torrapan, `is a file containing all the information we have on
the systems which you might find useful in making your decision.'
He handed a file to Pacharelli as he stood up.
Pacharelli followed suit, and stood.
`That is all Commander Pacharelli. You must now decide. Good Luck.'
He shook each of the five outstretched hands in turn, and walked to 
the door. Closing it behind him, he leaned against the wall and allowed
his head to fall slowly back against the wall.
`Yes!'

CHAPTER TWO - INTRODUCTION

This manual is a more in depth guide to playing Utopia, covering all the
functions available, and indicating how everything can be manipulated to
suit your game.

QUALITY OF LIFE

Whilst Utopia is an open ended game, the achievement of a high Quality 
of Life rating can be regarded as your goal. The Quality of Life figure
on the main screen gives an indication of how the colony is managed, and
how affluent the colonists perceive themselves to be. Earth will
reward medals for the maintenance of a high quality of life, once 80%
has been sustained for a length of time. Similarly, a medal wil be awarded
at 90%. You can regard the achievement of 80% Quality of Life as an indicator
of sufficient skill to move onto the next scenario.
There are numerous factors that will influence the Quality of Life standing.
It will reflect more readily long term trends, so do not expect it to start
plummeting if tax has been increased a little. Similarly, do not think that
as there has been no immediate change, your people are satisfied with the 
new level of tax.

Morale can be seen as an indicator of your Quality of Life, but only
short term. Morale is a reflection of the type of things that will affect
your colonists, but it is a very transient thing:
Morale might decline one day, but might rise in a month if a brilliant
military victory is scored, whereas your Quality of Life might not change 
perceptibly throughout. A rating of current morale is available by selecting
the Psychiatric Adviser.

CHAPTER THREE - MAIN WORLD VIEW

This is where all the action takes place. This window contains your view of
the planet surface.

Below is a brief description of each of the functions that will be found on
the main screen. The more important, or those which lead to sub-sections will 
generally be covered in their own chapter.

POINTER

Practically every action in the game is carried out by moving the pointer over
an object and clicking on it. It will normally appear as a standard arrow 
pointer on screen, but will differ in one important instance:
Moving the pointer over the display will change it to a flashing yellow
square. This square indicates where any action instigated will be carried out.
If, for example, you are in `Build' Mode, and wish to place a building on the
surface, the square indicates where on the planet surface it would be placed.
Similarly, should you be in Information Mode, the building which is on the 
flashing square will be the one that information can be obtained on.

1 DIRECTION ARROWS

These direction arrows allow you to view the different areas of the planet
surface. Click on the direction arrows with the left mouse button to move
the display one square in the chosen direction. Click on the arrows with the 
right button to move by six squares. Holding the left button down over one
of the direction arrows will give continuous scrolling until it is released.

2 QUALITY OF LIFE

This is the current Quality of Life indicated as a percentage.

3 WARNING INDICATORS

These will warn of certain dangerous situations which might arise. They 
will, however, only appear on the screen when needed. The indicators are:

LIGHT BULB

Your colony has insufficient power and some buildings or functions might
not work adequately.

RUNNING MAN

A special event has happened somewhere. Click on this to move the display 
to where it is. Click again to return to your previous position.

KNIFE & FORK

Your colonists have insufficient food.

O2

Your colonists have insufficient air/life support.

4 CURRENTLY AVAILABLE FUNDS

This is the money currently available to you.

5 DATE
 
The current colony date.

6 STATUS INDICATOR BOX

This shows your current Mode. the Modes available are:

RED "i" SYMBOL

You are in INFORMATION Mode.
In Build or Demolish Mode Information Mode can be entered by clicking anywhere 
on the screen with the right mouse button. In Information Mode the map can be 
interrogated by clicking on buildings with the left button. The building name 
will then appear in the Mes sage Panel. Some buildings have an Information 
Panel where more information is provoded, or where the various parametes can 
be altered. (see later)

DEMOLISH TRUCK

You are in DEMOLISH Mode.

ANY BUILDING

You are in BUILD Mode.
This will allow buildings to be placed on the planet surface. How to build, 
and the type of building which can be constructed on the planet surface, are 
described in their own chapter later.

7 PAUSE BUTTON

This pauses the game. Click on it again to continue. Whilst in pause mode
all sprites stop and no colony simulation takes place. However, several 
information gathering tasks can be performed:
                                   
Scrolling freely about the map.
Accessing the Advisers.
Accessing the Map Screen.

8 MAP BUTTON

This will show the Map Screen. See the separate chapter later.

9 FINANCE BUTTON

This will take you to the financial section of the game. See the separate
chapter later.

10 ADVISERS BUTTON

This takes you to the adviser section of the simulation. More on this in
the Advisers chapter.

11 INDUSTRY BUTTON

Will access the section from which the industrial aspects of your colony 
can be manipulated. Again, this section has it's own chapter later.

12 SPYING BUTTON

The sub section which allows an exploration of the terrain around your
colony in order to seek out other alien races. See separate chapter on
spying later.

13 DISK BUTTON

Scenarios can be loaded, and partially completed games can be loaded and 
saved in this section. See the extensive chapter later.

14 DEMOLISH BUTTON
 ____________________________________________________________________ 
|                                                                    |
|A NOTE ON SECONDARY SCREENS. WHEN IN A SECONDARY SCREEN OR          |
|INFORMATION PANEL, THE GAME IS PAUSED, WHICH ENABLES A FREE         |
|AND LENGTHY EXAMINATION OF THE DATA ON THE SCREEN/INFORMATION PANEL.|             
|____________________________________________________________________|                        
              
CHAPTER FOUR - BUILDINGS

When the Build Button is clicked on, an Information Panel will be shown
offering the chance of selecting a particular type of building that you
wish to place on the map. Click on any of the building graphics to select
that building and the name and cost will then appear.
Clicking on the arrow button (to the right of Exit) will cycle you through
the three screens of buildings. In this Information Panel, buildings will 
change as you succeed in inventing new ones.

When you Exit, the status indicator box on the main screen shows the selected
building. One can be built by clicking on a free square on the display with
the left button. As many can be built as required, or as are affordable.

CONSTRUCTING A BUILDING

When a building is constructed, scaffolding appears on the map where you have
clicked. Colonists now work to erect the building chosen, which can take from 
one week to four months with an average of one month. It also takes a 
different number of colonists (typically twenty) to finish. The scaffolding
will change to your chosen building upon completion and will become 
immediately operational. The colonists that have worked on it will now be made
available for other work. If too much construction is undertaken at any one
time there will not be enough colonists available for employment in this area.
An important factor is deciding the site of an building is the proximity of a
Flux Pod is that it is for the delivery of power and communication to the
construction. No building should be more than twelve squares from a Flux Pod
and thus, if you try to construct a building too far from a Flux Pod, an 
error message will occur.

THE BUILDINGS

Following is a brief description of each type of building, its purpose, and
the part that it will play in the development of your colony.

ARMS LAB

When manned by technicians, this building produces weapons.

CHEMICAL PLANT

This building extracts fuel from the ground when manned by technicians.
Fuel automatically goes to the Fuel Tanks. The actual output from a Chemical 
Plant depends upon the yield of fuel underneath it. Use the Map Screen to 
locate fuel deposits and try to build on a square in close proximity to them.

COMMAND CENTRE

This is critical to the security of your colony. As many can be constructed 
as you like but only one can be active at any time. In an enemy attack, the 
Command Centre will be a primary target, and it is therefore good planning 
to have another ready to take over. If your active Command Centre is 
destroyed for any reason, another is picked automatically and made active. 
Several functions are unobtainable without an active Command Centre, but 
this is left for you to find out. In the Command Centre Information Panel, 
the arrowed button, to the right of Exit, toggles the Centre active or 
inactive.
               

FLUX POD

Surplus power is automatically stored in a Flux Pod, for later use when enough 
power cannont be produced. They also determine where buildings sites should 
be, as ALL BUILDINGS NEED TO BE WITHIN TWELVE SQUARES OF A FLUX POD. 
The amount each Pod can store and the amount it currently holds, is given in 
an Information Panel when you select the building in Information Mode.

FUEL TANK

Surplus Fuel is stored here, The Information Panel indicates the maximum 
storage and how much is currently being held. There is also an indication 
of the number of Fuel Tanks you possess.

HOSPITAL

It is not necessary to have a Hospital buy they do assist in improving morale 
and curing disease and any viruses that may attack the colonists. 
You may have as many Hospitals as you wish, the more the better. The 
Information Panel details the number of Hospitals and the medics you employ
which can be recruited from the Industry Information
Panel.
               
The arrowed button to the right of the Exit button allows the birth rate 
in the colony to be altered to the desired rate. It can be None,Low, Medium
or High. If all births are to be prevented it can be set to None. Obviously 
this is only a termporary measure. Set it to High if you want to provide 
cash bonuses for your colonists to procreate. This ability to affect the 
birth rate will enable you to have an established and stable colony with a 
good equilibrium.

HYDROPONICS

Foods is grown within special culture environments, relying upon nutrients 
brought in from Earth. Each Hydroponics dome can provide food for one hundred
people every month.

LABORATORY

When manned by Scientists (recruited from the Industry Information Panel),
scientific research will occur. (See Research later) Laboratories and research
need not be invested but you stand to gain special devices and weaponry if
you do so.

LASER TURRET

These are used to defend the colony. When built, they enter `auto-seek'mode, 
continuously rotating in search of a target to fire at. Their range is a 
30 degree cone stretching out for about six squares in the direction of the
barrel, and if an enemy is detected, they will fire upon it at regular 
intervals and enter into `fixed' mode in the assumption that several enemies 
are attacking from the same direction. A rotating turret can be forced into 
`fixed' mode by clicking on it with left button when in Information mode. 

You may alter the facing of a turret at any time by clicking on it with the
left button, which will rotate it clockwise by thirty degrees. Simply keep 
clicking until it faces the desired direction. 

LAUNCH PAD

These are necessary for the construction and holding of spaceships. Though 
a spaceship can land on any flat piece of land, it is advantageous for it to
land on a Launch Pad in order for refuelling. Launch Pads are also necessary 
for the construction of spaceships. Tanks can drive freely across a Launch
Pad so you must ensure that they do not obstruct spaceships trying to land.

LIFE SUPPORT

This building sucks in the unbreatheable atmosphere of the planet and 
transforms it into oxygen to feed the colony buildings. 
Each Life Support can provide air for four hundred colonists every month, 
and has a facility to store surplus air for later use, though this is not 
unlimited. Once full, you have a reasonable fail-safe against running short 
of air in the future, for example if there are more colonists than the Life
Support can supply, or if a Life Support is under construction.

LIVING QUARTERS
               
Special apartments where all colonists live. Each building provides space for 
fifty colonists.

MINE
               
When manned by technicians, this building extracts ore from the ground which 
is automatically stored for future use in the construction of tanks and 
spaceships. The actual output from a Mine depends upon the  yield of Ore
underneath it. Use the Map Screen to locate deposits and build on a square
with ore nearby.

MISSILE LAUNCHER

Each Missile Launcher has a single missile which can be launched by the player 
by clicking on it with the left button when in Information mode. An 
Information Panel pops up with a reminder of how many missiles are available. 
The missile will then attempt to locate a target within its range and if it 
cannot do so the Information Panel will inform you, and the missile will not 
be fired. Once it is fired, the ground it occupied returns to normal terrain 
and can be built on again.

If a target is found, a message will confirm this and another button will
appear next to the Exit button. Simply click on this to fire the missile. 
Once in flight it will home in on its target which cannot be altered. If the 
target is destroyed before the missile reaches it, the missile will explode 
harmlessly in the air.

POWER STATION

This is the main means of generating power for your colony. Every month each 
Power Station will generate 50MW of power. (The power stats on the Colony 
Administrator Information Panel are MW also.)

RADARS

These buildings are crucial for scanning the approach of enemies. Your own 
tanks and spaceships have a special transponder code meaning that their 
position can be located anywhere on the map whether they are in the range
of Radars or not. Enemies can only be detected within Radar range. To see 
the area of the map covered by your Radars, use radar mode in the Map Screen. 
Position the Radars for effective cover, preferably without gaps and without 
overlap.

SCAFFOLD

This appears on the map whilst a building is being constructed and will
automatically turn into the desired building when construction time 
is over.

SECURITY HQ
               
You may wish to build one or more Security HQ's and recruit Security staff if 
crime presents a problem in the colony, (The Senior Psychiatric Adviser will 
give you an indication of crime levels). The numbers employed in security to 
control the crime level must be gauged by you.

SHIP CONSTRUCTION YARD
 
Use this building to construct new spaceships of any type. Click on the Ship 
Yard with the left button when in information mode, and an Information Panel 
appears showing pictures of the different ships that can be built. 
Click on a picture and the Information Panel will advise of the length of time 
it will take to build that ship. If the number of colonists working in Ship 
Yard is increased (via the Industry Information Panel) then the time will 
therefore decrease. Naturally, the larger ships take longer to build. 
For details on the ships see the section entitled Ship types. If you have 
selected a ship but decide not to build one, click on Exit to abort. If you
want to build the ship, click on the Build button and the Yard will then begin 
to build that ship.

Each Yard can only build a single ship at any time so several Yards required 
if you wish to build more than one ship at a time. Clicking on the Ship Yard
whilst it is constructing a ship brings up an Information Panel informing how 
much construction time is remaining. There is no need to keep a constant check 
on development, as a noise will sound every time a ship is completed.

When the ship has been finished you must have a Launchpad adjacent to the Ship 
Yard, where the ship will appear. If there is no Launchpad, a warning message 
will be received and the Ship Yard can do no further work until one is built 
next to it. The construction of ships requires ore and weapons to be in the 
Stores and messages will warn you if there is insufficient materials to build 
the ship. As soon as materials become available then construction on the ship
will continue.

SHIP TYPES

There are five types of ships (not including the Fusion Cruiser which is 
described in Inventions) listed below, along with a rating one-five of their
armour and of their offensive strength. Naturally, the more powerful the ship, 
the longer it takes to construct, and the more ore and weapons units it 
requires during the construction.

 __________________________________
|               |        |         |
| Name          | Armour | Offence |
|_______________|________|_________|
|               |        |         |
| Explorer      |   1    |    0    |  
|               |        |         |
| Fighter       |   2    |    2    |
|               |        |         |
| Assault Craft |   3    |    3    |
|               |        |         |
| Cruiser       |   4    |    4    |
|               |        |         |
| Warship       |   5    |    5    |
|_______________|________|_________|                     
       
SOLAR PANEL

An alternative method of generating power that is cheap and quick to build, 
though each one only generates 2MW per month. They are also useless during 
a solar eclipse so you may suffer power shortages during such times.

SPORTS COMPLEX
     
Your people need rest and relaxation to keep their morale high, so it may be 
advisable to construct Sports Complexes for their enjoyment. When you click 
on a Sports Complex with the left button in Information mode, an Information 
Panel appears.

If you are informed that an event may be called, then to do so click on the 
button next to Exit. The event will open on the first day of the next month 
and will last an entire month. Calling an event boosts the morale of the 
colonists but means that little work is done and therefore industrial output 
may be lowered since everyone is in attendance. Only one event may be called 
in any one month no matter how many Sports Complexes you have, but there can 
only be an event once in every three months. The Sports Complex Information 
Panel gives a reminder of how long before another event can be called.

STORE

Various items are stored here automaticcaly and a warning will be 
given when your Stores are full, so that more can be constructed.

TANK CONSTRUCTION YARD

This building is used in the construction of new tanks. Unlike the Ship Yard, 
there is no Information Panel, simply recruit colonists into Tank Yards using 
the Industry Information Panel and construction will begin. Tank Yards 
continually construct tanks, automatically beginning another as soon as one is 
finished. Each Tank Yard can only build a single tank at any time. Typically, 
with the maximum number of ten colonists in each Tank Yard, it will produce 
one tank every two or three months. Note: If you want to slow or stop tank 
production you must sack Tank yard Technicians by reducing the Required 
Technicians figure in the Industry Information Panel.

When the tank has been built it will appear in any free square adjacent to 
the Tank Yard. Thus, up to eight tanks may be around a Tank Yard at any one 
time. If all eight squares are occupied, you will receive a warning message 
and that yard will perform no more construction until a space is cleared for 
the tank to appear into, Remember too, that constructing tanks requires ore 
and weapons to be in your Stores. Messages will warn you if you have 
insufficient materials to build the tank, but as soon as they become 
available, construction on the tank will continue. 

WORKSHOP
              
Each workshop produces Tech Goods, the amount depends upon how many 
Technicians are employed. Tech Goods serve no purpose to the colony and are 
solely for trading, so the construction of Workshops is not necessary.

WRECKAGE
               
Wreckage is formed when either a building is demolished or the enemy destroys
one. You may clear wreckage by using `demolish' option.

CHAPTER FIVE - THE MAP SCREEN

Clicking on the Map Screen button loads the Map Screen. The information 
available is as follows.

LAYOUT

1 MAP WINDOW

This shows the whole of the planet surface which has been cleared for possible
colonisation. The planet carries on beyond the edges of this boundary, but the
entire area shown is the area of expansion available to you.

2 MAGNIFIED DISPLAY WINDOW

This window, to the right of the main map, is a plan view of the area 
currently shown in isometric 3D on the main screen. It is also the area 
enclosed in the white square on the main map. Clicking the left mouse button
on any area of the main map will take the white square to this area, and also
display this section of the map in the magnified display window. When you
exit this screen, the area represented in the magnified display window is the
area of the main map that you will be taken back to.

Above the magnified display window are two rows of buttons which represent 
the following:

3 BUILDING BUTTON

Shows where all buildings are, and highlights a few you may wish to know 
about, such as Mines and Flux Pods. Scaffolding is also shown, and the grey 
area indicated when this button is clicked are terrain features.

4 ORE BUTTON

Shows deposits of ore that can be mined (see details on Mine). 
Ore is only detected within a small range of buildings, so as the colony 
expands more ore will be discovered.

5 FUEL BUTTON
               
Indentical to ore but shows fuel. (collected by Chemical Plants).
               
6 RADAR BUTTON

Shows every radar installation and its coverage. Upon examination this option 
can be used to ensure that your colony is properly covered by radar and that 
there are no gaps where enemies can slip in. Enemies are only shown on the map
if they are within radar coverage, so if it is inadequate you will be 
suspectible to a sneak attack. Enemies are shown on this screen along with 
the positions of your own tanks and spaceships. Remember, there may be several
enemy units just out of range of your radars, so be prepared.

7 MOVEMENT INDICATOR BUTTON

Similar to the radar button, this screen shows all friendly and enemy units,
but no radar coverage. However, this screen shows terrain features on the map 
so the directions an enemy attack is likely to come from can be judged. E.g.
Down a narrow gap between two mountain ranges. Use this screen in conjunction 
with the radar coverage screen for best results.

8 POWER BUTTON
           
This shows all your Power Generation Buildings, Command Centres and Matter 
Transporters.
               
9 WEAPONS BUTTON

Shows the location of all ground based weaponry, such as Missile Launchers, 
Turrets and Land Mines.

10 EXIT BUTTON
               
Return to the main screen.

11 KEY 

Under the main map is a key that explains each of the objects on the map. 
Clicking on the various buttons above the zoom window will effect what the
colours on the map represents.

12 MARKERS

A row of eight numbers below the zoom window indicates which of the eight 
markers are available for use. The markers are used for manipulating tanks 
and for carrying out effective combat. They are covered in more detail later.

PLACING MARKERS

Clicking anywhere in the zoom window will lay a marker there. The first 
available marker will be placed and a flashing number between 1 and 8 will 
show where the markers are. Similarly, a red dot will flash on the map window.
Clicking on a marker on the zoom window will remove the marker making it 
available for use elsewhere.

THE MARKER BUTTON 

The markers are often used in conjuction with the map screen, which is the 
reason for covering it in detail here. You have eight markers available to
place anywhere on the map and they are used primarily to mark the 
destinations of sprites.

PLACING A MARKER

To place a marker on the display, click on the Marker Button. A prompt message
instructs you to click on a square on the display where you wish to place the
marker. Click with the left button over any square and a marker will appear
there. The first available marker will be placed, so marker One will appear
before Two and so on. The marker will remain until it is removed.

REMOVING A MARKER

To remove a marker click on the Market Button with the left button over the 
marker you want to remove. It will disappear and be available for use 
elsewhere. You can also position markers from the map screen.

A quicker way of laying/removing markers is to position the flashing yellow
pointer over a square and press a key from 1 to 8. This will position a marker
there with the number pressed. Note that if the marker was already somwhere on
the map, it will be moved to this new position. Similarly you can remove a 
marker by positioning the box over the marker and pressing any key 1 to 8.

Pressing the `D' key will remove all markers from the map.

CHAPTER SIX - FINANCE

FINANCE BUTTON 

Clicking on this brings up the main Finance Organisation Panel. This shows
the amount of each item that is available for trading, your current funds, 
the current rate of income tax and current Research Grant values. 
From this screen it is also possible to manipulate a number of the various
parameters.

ALTERING TAX

To alter Income Tax, click over the present figure with the left button and
type in the new value, then press the Return key. Valid values are 0% to 20%
This value will not take effect until the first day of the next year, and
when it does take effect it will last for at least a whole year.

ALTERING THE RESEARCH GRANT

To alter the Research Grants, click over either figure with the left button.
You can then enter amount of money you wish to add to that grant. Note:
This is a cumulative value, so if the present value was 2000, and 3000 was
entered, the new grant total will be set to 5000, if you do not carry out
any research, the long term effect may be to the detriment of your colony.

TRADE

The table shows various data used in trading. There are two types of Trading
in Utopia, depending upon how interested you are.

Autotrade is handled by the computer, once every month. If you have no
interest in performing trade yourself the computer can do it for you.
The computer will trade a certain percentage of your total good every month,
and this percentage is set in the CMMDR RETAINS column which specifies the 
percentage of each trade item that you wish to retain for your own use.
To alter these figures just click on one of them with the left button and 
enter a value between 0% and 100%. As you alter the percentages, the 
TRADEABLE UNITS column indicates the amount of items of computer will use for
trading. If this column reads 0 then none of that particular item can be
traded by the computer.

The TOTAL UNITS column indicates the total amount of each trade item in your
stores. If the Retain figure is set at 100% it means that you want to keep all
the units for your colony and Autotrade will trade none of them. If you set 
the Retain figure to 0% it means that you do no wish to keep any units and 
Autotrade may trade any or all of the units. Note: Remember that fuel, food,
ore and weapons are needed by your colony so it is inadvisable to set the
Retain figures to 0% or probably any figure under 50%. Remember, if Autotrade
trades these units then you have none left for your colony. Gems and Tech 
Goods are not used by the colony so it is safe to trade them all. Typically,
you may set the Retain figures as follows:

Fuel 50%
Food 80%
Ore 50%
Gems 0%
Weapons 50%
Tech Good 0%

Monitor this screen throughout the game to see what sort of surplus you can
build up, which will help in your decision as to what Retain figures are to
be set.

MANUAL TRADE

The Money Button takes you to a second Information Panel concerned only with
manual trade.

You may only indulge in manual trade once per month. After that, you will not
be able to access this second Information Panel until the next month.
Note that in a month where you perform manual trade, no Autotrade will take
place.

This second Information Panel is similar to the first but shows greater 
details of market trends. AVAIL UNITS shows the total number of units you 
have of each item. PRICE shows the current market price for each unit. 
SUPPLY shows how many of each type of item is available for you to buy. 
DEMAND shows how many is requested by other planets, and thus the maximum 
number to sell. There is never a fixed supply and demand for any one item.
Supply and demand varies every month, as does the price.

TRADING

First click on the button corresponding to the item you want to buy or sell.
Then click on buy or sell. Assuming that there is a supply or demand for that
item you will be asked to type in the number you want to buy or sell. The
transaction will then take place and the table updated.

Remember not to sell all your units of food, ore, fuel and weapons, as your
colony will require some. If there is a shortage  of a certain item then it
may be easier to buy it using this Information Panel rather than construct 
the  appropriate building. Remember though that in the long term it is better to 
construct buildings to make the colony self sufficient. Prices may go up just
when you are short of money, or there may be months when there is no food 
available to buy.

Should you want your stores to make room for more important items, but find 
there is no demand for it, the `Dump' option can be used. Click on the button
representing the item you want to dump, then, instead of chosing `Buy' or
`Sell', click on the `Dump' button, and then type in the number to dump.
The items will disappear from your stores.

CHAPTER SEVEN - ADVISERS

Clicking on the adviser button loads the adviser screen. Your six advisers
are shown and waiting to report to you. Simply click with the left button
over the one you wish to hear a report from. Click in the large gap between
advisers to exit this screen and return to the game.

As you click on an adviser, two panels will appear; one giving details of the
report from the adviser, the other giving a photo with some details about the
person. Click anywhere with the left button to finish communicating with the
adviser. You may hear reports from as many as you wish before returning to
the game. The advisers available to you are as follows:

SENIOR PSYCHIATRIST:

The Senior Psychiatric Adviser reports on the types of people in your colony,
such as normal Colonists, Technicians, Medics, Scientists and Security.
She also reports the current birth rate, and the birth and death totals for 
the last month and also the status of crime and the morale of the colonists.
Keep an eye on these two reports. She also gives the Population Density
which is the percentage of occupied Living Quarters. As long as it is at or
below 100%, you have enough space for your colonists, but if this figure
rises above, some of your colonists will be homeless, and their morale will
decrease.

COLONY ADMINISTRATOR:

He reports details about air, food, fuel, power and ore, showing how much is
stored, how much was produced last month, and how much was used in the 
previous month and year. Make sure that your monthly usage figures are not
greater than the production figures. If they are, then you are not producing
enough to support your colony - your stored reserve will be gradually used
up causing a severe shortage, and your colony to suffer. The warning lights
on the main screen will tell you when this happens.

HEAD OF RESEARCH:

He reports upon your current tech level (see Research), the number of 
laboratories and scientists you have, and the amount of money left in the
Research Grants. Make sure you keep them topped up or scientific development
will be restricted.

CIVIL ENGINEER:

He reports on all the buildings you have in your colony.

FINANCIAL CONSULTANT:

He reports your monthly and yearly income and expenditure. Income is from:

COLONY SUPPORT GRANT: This is given every month for the first few years to 
help you get the new colony off to a good start.
TRADE: Profit you have made from selling surplus items.
INCOME TAX: The tax you earn from your people.

SUPREME COMMANDER:

He details how many of each type of tank and spaceship you own and on 
whether they are on the map of attacking an enemy city. He repors on how
many ground-based weapons you have available, and also gives information
on how many of your own and enemy forces have been destroyed in the game 
so far - an indication of how effective you are in combat.

You can also access the adviser Information Panel without entering Advisers
Screen, by clicking on the function keys from F1 to F6.

CHAPTER EIGHT - INDUSTRY

Click on this to get an Information Panel detailing your various industries.

TECH indicates the current number of Technicians working in any particular
industry. MAX TECH indicates the maximum number that can work in a particular
industry. This is usually ten technicians for every industry building.

REQD TECH is where you can specify the number of technicians required in 
each industryy (see below).

VAC is the number of vacancies for each industry. This figure is basically
the number of required technicians minus the current number of technicians.

MONTH PROD summarises the production of each industry during the last month.
Note that the last three industries have no product.

The more technicians employed in an industry, the more items will be produced
each month. However, the more technicians you have, the less colonists are 
available for other tasks such as the construction of buildings. If you have
too many technicians, they may produce too great a surplus and your stores
will quickly fill up. At the end of every month, all output from each industry
goes direct to your Stores, or in the case of a Chemical Plant, to your Fuel
Tanks. Tanks produced in a Tank Yard will appear next to the Tank Yard. 
Ships produced in a Ship Yard will appear on a neighbouring launchpad.

RECRUITING TECHNICIANS

To recruit technicians, click with the left button over one of the REQD TECH
figures. Type in a new value. Over a period of several months, available 
colonists wil apply for and fill the vacancies, causing the current number of
technicians to rise and the vacancies to fall. Once the current number of 
technicians reaches the required number, no further recruitment will be 
carried out. You are, however, able to set the required number higher than
the maximum allowed, and in this way plan for future growth. Recruitment will
stop when current technician levels reach the maximum, but if another industry
building is constructed, the maximum technicians will increase and recruitment
will start again.

Recruiting allocates more colonists to industries with the largest number of 
vacancies. In other words, vacanices are filled on a pro rata basis. To force
quicker recruitment into a particular industry, set the vacancies artificially
higher than is required. Note: You can reduce the amount in any industry
simply by lowering the Required Technician figure or setting it to 0. The
surplus will be immediately sacked to become normal colonists.

CHAPTER NINE - ALIEN RACES AND SPYING

ALIEN RACES

Simulating the activities of a space colony is fun, but it is more exciting
if there are other aliens intent on ultimately controlling the whole of the 
planet surface. In Utopia, there are ten such races, all stored on the 
Scenarios disk.

Clicking on the Spy Button on the main screen takes you into the Spy 
Information Panel. There are four levels of spying, and in each instance 
the following message will be presented:

INSUFFICIENT FUNDS FOR SPYING

No spying will take place unless the amount of money currently available
in the form of the Intelligence Grant is increased.

LOW LEVEL SURVEILLANCE

A minimal amount of spying will be carried out, but the Information provided
will be a mix of basic facts and speculation.

NORMAL INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY

A good level and regular supply of fairly reliable Information will be 
supplied.

SPECIAL OPERATIVES IN USE

The best agents will be used in the field to carry out dangerous infiltration
missions, and the level and quality of Information will be the best available.

In general, it can be assumed that the higher the level, the more information
your spies will obtain about the enemy's city, tech level and offensive 
forces, and the more warning you will be given about an imminent attack.

To put money into the Intelligence Grant, click on the existing grant figure
and enter the amount you want to add to the grant from the keyboard. This 
grant is also accumulative.

Spies are sent into the field automatically - simply provide the funds, and
the computer controls the rest. This fund will be used up by the spies over
time, at a rate dependant upon the level of spy activity. The higher the spy
level, the quicker the funds will be used up. Keep an eye on this figure,
because if it falls to zero, no spying will take plae until further funds
are allocated. The standard procedure is that one operative will set up base 
some distance from the enemy city, and from there will correlate the 
activities of the field agents, and send messages back to the colony based
on the information passed onto them.

The main window of the spy panel will show the latest spy report (if any).
You can cycle back through previous spy reports by clicking on the button
next to the Exit button. As you cycle through, the reports become more 
outdated.

Some spy reports will come with illustrations that the spies have managed to
obtain If there is such an illustration it will appear in the box beside the
text.

Clicking on the Exit button will return you to the main game.

CHAPTER TEN - CITY DEFENSE

The main reason for wanting to carry out spying is to know when the inevitable
attack on your city wil occur, what type of weaponry the enemy will use, and
how best to be prepared for the assault. You can be sure that the assault will
happen at some point, and here we present a guide on how to defend your city,
and how to counter attack. Of course, you could counterattack before they
attack you....

COMBAT

You have four methods of attack at your disposal, which are tanks, spaceships,
laser turrets and missile launchers. There is an optional fifth, Land Mines,
but they are only available when they have been invented. We will cover tanks
and spaceships in detail later, but first, some general ideas.

Laser Turrets and Missile Launchers are fixed in position on the map, so think
carefully where you locate them. Missiles have a limited range so need to be 
near the edge of your colony, but they also need to be protected. 
Laser Turrets are best built where they can cover a wide area without 
obstacles. For best effects, circle your colony with them to cover all
approaches. For more details on Laser Turrets and Missile Launchers, see 
Chapter Three:Buildings.

Tanks and spaceships will automatically fire upon enemies within two or three
squares of them. For the best effect, scatter tanks throughout to act as 
sentries. Keep up reserves on the edge of your colony ready to deploy to any
part of the map, to counter an enemy attack. Spaceships have the advantage of
being able to fly over any obstacles, and unlike tanks they also possess 
several weapons which enables them to cause more damage when they attack. For
greatest flexibility, keep stocks of tanks and spaceships.

DEPLOYING TANKS UNITS

Whilst your colony develops, you will presumably have been allowing for the
inevitable attack, which invariably means having a number of tanks and 
spaceships on hand to spring to the defence of the colony. Victory, however,
is not just a matter of having more and better arnaments than your enemy, 
but is also dependant upon the effective deployment of the ships. All craft
will automatically attack an enemy craft once it is within about four squares
of it so your priority is to manoeuvre tanks and ships into an area where they
can carry out combat.

The first step is to click on one of your tanks with the right mouse button.
An Information Panel appears giving details of the tank you have selected,
and also the number of tanks owned altogether. If the message `No Markers
available' appears, then there are no markers on the map and this tank cannot
be given orders. If one or more markers have been positioned on the map,
they will appear in the Information Panel.

You can order a tank in three ways:

TO SEND THE CHOSEN TANK TO A MARKER click on the marker icon in the
Information Panel. A message will confirm your action, for example, `Sending 
tank to marker x'. Simply click on Exit and the tank will begin moving to the
chosen marker (See Figure 3).

TO SEND SEVERAL TANKS TO A MARKER click on the marker icon, as above, but 
when the new screen appears, click on either of the two buttons next to the
Exit button. You will be asked to type in the number of tanks you want to 
send. Once you have done this, click on Exit and several tanks will begin
moving to the chosen marker.

The two buttons are very similar in action but distinctly different. The 
one illustrated with a small flag will send several tanks nearest to the
marker. Thus, if you enter five, the five tanks nearest to the chosen marker
will travel towards that marker. The one with a tank will send several tanks
nearest to the selected tank to the marker. Thus, if you enter five, the 
chosen tank and the four tanks nearest to it will be sent towards the chosen
marker. Experiment with these modes and you will find cases when each one is
more useful.

The last button is used to stop a tank when it is moving. Tanks wil normally
only stop when they cannot negotiate an obstacle or have reached their 
destination. You can stop them at any time by clicking this button. To make
the tank move again, you must program in a new destination.

DEPLOYING SPACESHIPS

Selecting a spaceship brings up an Information Panel. The type of ship is 
given as well as details such as fuel remaining and hit points. Below, its
current mode (orders) is given. Like the tank Information Panel, one or more
marker icons may be shown.

To send a ship to a marker, click on the marker icon and a message will 
confirm your action. The ship's Mode will change to either `Flight - land 
upon arrival' or `Flight - hover upon arrival'. Click on Exit and the ship
will now fly to the chosen marker. Upon arrival it will land or hover 
depending upon the current mode.

You can aler the mode to `Hover upon arrival' by clicking the Hover button
when the Mode is `Flight - Land upon arrival', and vice versa.

LANDING A SHIP

To land a ship when in flight or hovering, simply click on the Land button
until the mode becomes Landed. If the mode was `Flight - Hover on arrival'
you will have to click Land twice. When you now click Exit, the ship will
stop and land. If the ship can not land, because there is building, sprite
or terrain feature in the way, it will automatically go into hover mode.

TO MAKE A SHIP HOVER click on the Hover button until the mode becomes 
Hovering. If the mode was `Flight - Land on arrival', you will have to click
Hover twice. When you now click Exit, the ship will hover without moving.
If it was previously landed, it will take off and hover.

BUILDING A LAUNCHPAD

The last button is Build Launchpad which enables an Explorer ship to have
the option of building a launchpad. To do this however, it must be landed.
When you select Build Launchpad, the ship will take off and scaffolding will
appear on the ground below it. If it is not possible to build the launchpad
due to obstructions, the ship will abort and simpy land again. Otherwise, it
will remain hovering until the launchpad is built and will then automatically
land upon it.

FUEL USAGE

Once a ship has been built it will not certain any fuel unless there are fuel
tanks nearby. If a ship is built and there are no fuel tanks around the 
launchpad a fuel tank will have to be built before you can fly the ship.
But remember, fuel tanks can only be filled if there is a chemical plant in
the vicinity. Ships use up fuel performing the following actions: 
landing, taking off, flying and hovering. If possible, land a ship when not
in use in order to preserve fuel. YOU CAN REFUEL A SHIP BY LANDING IT ON A
LAUNCHPAD, BUT ONLY IF IT IS WITHIN EIGHT SQUARES OF A FUEL TANK.
The ship will automatically refuel, attempting to fill its entire tanks if 
there is sufficient fuel available. Tanks never use fuel.

ATTACKING AN ENEMY CITY

Defence is only half of the combat, and although you will never see the enemy
city except in the spy reports, you can attack it, and send your craft destroy
it.

Once your spies report the location of the enemy city, you can opt to send 
tanks and spaceships to attack it. This is your change to damage their city 
and stunt their development, or even totally destroy them once and for all.
When your forces are sent to attack the enemy city, they are removed from
the map and therefore can play no part in defending your own colony. The
actual attack upon the enemy city is handled by the computer. Reports may
be receiver about its progress from your spies, via the Spy Information
Panel, and the strength of your forces at the enemy city can be seen by 
looking at the Supreme Commander Adviser. An option to send reinforcements
is available at any time.

To send a spaceship to the enemy city, access the ship in the normal way,
then click on the Alien City Button. When you exit the sprite Information
Panel, the spaceship will fly off the map towards the enemy city and
automatically attack upon arrival.

To send one or more tanks, access the tank in the normal way, then click on
the Alien City Button. You will be promted for the number of tanks to be sent,
and those nearest the tank clicked on will be sent to the enemy city and 
automatically attack on arrival.

CHAPTER ELEVEN - USING DISKS

Clicking the Disk Button on the main screen takes you into the disk option
screen and from here, you can load and save games as well as load new 
scenarios.

At the bottom of the screen is a message panel used for instruction. Above
that is a listing window which can hold the names of the ten save areas on
your disk, or the ten scenarios on the scenario disk.

There are six control buttons:

1 EXIT

This button returns you to the game.

2 MUSIC

This button turn audio on or off in the game

3 FORMAT GAME SAVE DISK

Before unfinished games can be saved, a blank disk must be formatted. 
Insert a blank disk in the internal drive and click on Format. You will be
reminded that if you continue the Format process, all data on the disk will 
be destroyed. Either press Return to continue the Format or click the mouse
button to abort. After you press Return there will be a short delay and then
the disk will be ready for use.

4 SAVE GAME

Insert the formatted game save disk in the internal drive and click the left
mouse button.

The listing window will display the names of any games already saved on the
disk. An entry named Empty indicates that nothing has been saved there yet.
There are ten save slots. Click on the slot in the listing window you want
to save the current game into. You then have the choice of naming the saved
game or accepting the computer's generated name. By default, the computer
will name the game with the current colony date. (e.g. `05/05/2092'.) Simply
click the left mouse button to accept this name, or press Return if you want
to enter your own name. If you choose a title of your own, a cursor will 
appear in the listing window. Type in your name (up to sixteen characters)
and press Return. (You may delete characters by pressing Backspace.) The game
will now be save onto the disk in the slot you have selected.

5 LOAD GAME

To restore and continue playing a game you have previously saved, click on
Load Game. Insert your game save disk in the internal drive and click the 
left mouse button. The listing window will display the names of any saved
games on the disk. Slots marked as Empty are exactly that. Click on the slot
containing the name of the saved game you wish to load. It will then be 
loaded, and when Exit is clicked, the game can be played.

6 LOAD SCENARIO

To load a different scenario, click on Load Scenario. Insert a scenario disk
in the internal drive and click th eleft mouse button. The listing window
will display the names of the scenarios on that disk. Click on the slot
containing the name of the scenario you wish to load. When you click Exit,
you will now be playing this scenario.

7 TUTORIAL

See Quick Start Guide for futher details.

8 MUSIC DISK OPTION

While playing Utopia there is the option to play background music and sound
effects. Alternatively you can de-select either i.e. you can play music with
or without sound effects, or both off. PLEASE NOTE THAT UNLESS YOU HAVE
EXPANSION MEMORY YOU WILL NOT HAVE THE MUSIC OPTION, YOU CAN ONLY PLAY THE
SOUND EFFECTS.
To select a piece of music while playing Utopia click on the Select Music
button. The listing window (10) wil display the tunes available. Click on
the slot containing the name of the tune you wish to load. The tune you have
selected will then load and commence playing. To return to the game click
on the Exit button.

9 SOUND FX ON/OFF

This button turns the sound FX on or off in the game.

CHAPTER TWELVE - INFORMATION

RESEARCH

Your scientific level is rated on a scale of one to ten, called Tech Level.
The game begins at Tech level one, and will progress up levels as scientific
research is carried out. The three factors needed for research are:

SCIENTISTS

Recruit using the Industry Information Panel.

LABORATORIES

Construct them by using the Build button on the main screen.

MONEY

Set the two grant figures in the finance organisation panel by clicking 
Finance on the main screen. Scientific research will actually occur if you
provide no money at all, but it will be painfully slow. For best results,
recruit as many scientists as you are able to and put as much money into the
two Research Grants as you can afford. Also, as the grant totals get lower
over time, remember do deposit more money so that research is not interrupted.

You will be told when the tech level is advanced and also of any inventions
that are made and how they can be implemented. It is impossible to go down
tech levels, so once an invention is made, the benefits of it are reaped for 
the entire game. The two grants are used for different aspects of Research:

MILITARY GRANT

Most research draws from this fund, striving for the development of new 
weaponry or better defence systems to deter enemy attacks.

CIVILIAN GRANT

Non-military research draws from this grant, resulting in inventions that
serve no purpose in war but assist nonetheless. Al research into environment
sciences is also made using the Civilian Grant. It is therefore vital to
supply a Civilian Grant as well as a Military Grant, to enable your 
scientists to invent new ways of making the industrial environment friendly,
and thus improve the Quality of Life figure.

RANDOM EVENTS

Several events may occur during the game that have nothing to do with the 
enemy, and which can either help or hinder. Normally, a message will be 
received to inform you of what is going on, or the `Go to Event' warning
button will flash. Clicking on this will take you to the scene of the event 
in order for the situation to be assessed. Clicking on it again will return
you to your previous location. All the events are self explanatory, but we 
leave you to discover their effects for yourselves.

CRIME

It is in your interest to keep crime down. Crime, however, wil increase as
the population rises and as the morale and quality of life of the colonists
deteriorates. See Security HQ for the way in which a Security team can be set
up to seek and arrest criminals. Crime tends to follow these patterns:

THEFT - Crime cartels operate within your colony. The people decide that you
are not giving them a good deal so they band together in teams and hack into
your colony financial computers. Be prepared to see crucial colony funds
disappearing.

MURDERS - More serious. Expect to see regular deaths in and around your colony.
Such murders lower the people's morale rapidly.

TERRORISM - Expect to receive bomb threats from terrorists if the management
of the colony proves unsatisfactory to the people. Terrorists are without 
mercy and will simply destroy colony buildings with no apparent reason in 
order to voice their protests. More security men should be recruited if you 
suffer such attacks and it is crucial that the running of the colony is 
effectively improved.

ASSASSINATIONS - This is your final hint that it is time you retired - the 
colonists will employ an off-world assassin to murder you. You may receive
warnings or you may not.

SCENARIOS

The scenario disk comes with ten different scenarios to play. The scenarios
can be played in any order by accessing the disk options screen (see Disk 
Button), but it is advised that they are played in the position set as they
are in order of increasing difficulty. In each scenario a colony is commanded
on a different planet. Each planet is home to a different alien race which, 
like you is not indigenous, but is aiming to establish a colony on the planet.
In turn, each alien employs different tactics to attack the colony; some use
primarily air-based weaponry, others landbased, whilst others employ a mixture
of both. The game you are playing can be saved at any time, to continue later,
again by accessing the disk options screen. You can use the same screen to 
load the further expansion disks that Gremlin will issue in the next months.

COLONY SIMULATION

This section gives a insight into the simulation involved. The exact rules are
not given, but these notes should assist you in gaining more of an 
understanding of the game. it outlines background information only and can be 
completely ignored without having an adverse affect on your playing ability.

Free Colonists are available to do any type of job, and each month, free
colonists may be recruited to perform the following tasks, in order of 
priority:

COLONY SUPPORT

Colonists are taken to work in the Hydroponic domes, Power Stations and Life
Support to ensure an adequate supply of food, power and air.

CONSTRUCTION

Colonists are employed to work on any constructions that have been ordered 
to be built.

INDUSTRY

A certain number of Colonists are recruited to fill vacancies in industry,
but if too many buildings are constructed at any one time, not only will all 
the free colonists be used up, but industrial vacancies will not be filled.

The number of deaths each month depends upon the number of enemy attacks and
the level of supplies of food and air. If there is a shortage of either, the 
death rate will rise dramatically. However, it can be lowered by building
Hospitals and recruiting medics. Statistics can be obtained regarding the
number of each type of colonists and the birth and death rate from the 
Senior Psychiatric Adviser.

The morale of your colonists is very important to the simulation, and is
affected by numerous factors, many of which also effect Quality of Life. 
In particular, crime is very influential upon lowering morale. The Senior
Psychiatric Adviser gives an indication of the colonists' morale.

TROUBLE SHOOTING GUIDE
 __________________________________________________________________
|                                                                  |
| THIS SECTION CAN BE USED TO RECTIFY PROBLEMS WHICH MAY           |
| ARISE AND WILL ENABLE THE COLONY TO REGAIN A BATTER EQUILIBRIUM  |
|__________________________________________________________________|                                Q: YOU HAVE TRIED TO CONSTRUCT A BUILDING ON THE MAP BUT ARE UNABLE TO.

A: You are trying to build on top of another building.
A: You are trying to build on top of a sprite.
A: You are trying to build on wreckage or a terrain feature.
A: You do not have enough money to build it. Try later.
A: You do not have enough colonists available to build it. Try later.
A: The colonists are at a sports event or are on strike.

Q: INFORMATION CANNOT BE OBTAINED BY CLICKING ON BUILDINGS.

A: You must be in information mode. Click the right mouse button.
A: The game is paused. Unpause it.

Q: YOU CANNOT PERFORM MANUAL TRADE.

A: You have already performed manual trade this month.
A: Trading computers are inoperative. Wait for them to be fixed.
A: You have no active Command Centre.

Q: TOO MANY COLONISTS ARE DYING.

A: The colony birth rate is set too low. Change it to a higher level by 
   clicking on a hospital.
A: You have insufficient food or air. Check to see if the main screen warning
   lights are flashing. Build Hydroponics to produce more food, and Life 
   Supports to produce more air.
A: If your population is large (perhaps several hundred or more), you may need
   to build more than one Hospital. Multiple Hospitals lower the death rate, 
   but remember to recruit enough medics.
A: Your colony is overcrowed. Check with the Senior Psychiatric Adviser to 
   find out what the Population Density is. If it is 100 or more, build more 
   Living Quarters.
A: Colonists are being murdered. Check with the Senior Psychiatric Adviser
   to find out what the crime rate is. If it is too high, build Security HQ's.
A: People are duing from a virus. They will eventually recover, but more
   quickly if there are one or more Hospitals and plenty of medics.

Q: INDUSTRIAL VACANCIES DO NOT SEEM TO BE FILLING.

A: All colonists are being used in construction. Try later.
A: There are too many vacancies but not enough colonists. The vacancies will
   be filled eventually, but it may take time.

Q: NO TANKS ARE BEING BUILT.

A: Ensure you have plenty of weapons and ore units in your Stores. If you do
   not, then either use trade to purchase some or build mines and Armament 
   Laboratories, remembering to recruit technicians for them.
A: Ensure your Tank Yards have a neighbouring free space for the tank to 
   appear into.
A: Ensure you have an active Command Centre.
A: Recruit more technicians into the Tank Yards.
A: You have insufficient power. (The Power warning light on the main screen
   will be flashing.) Produce more power by building Solar Panels or Power 
   Stations.

Q: NO SPACESHIPS ARE BEING BUILT.

A: Check all the points given above for help with constructing tanks. All 
   factors apply to spaceship construction too.
A: Ensure your Ship Yards have a neighbouring launchpad for the spaceships
   to appear into.
A: Check that you have instructed the Ship Yard to build a ship. Click on
   the Ship Yard with the right mouse button and it should confirm that one is
   under construction. If not, follow the instructions in the manual for 
   constructing spaceships.

Q: YOU CANNOT GET A TANK TO MOVE.

A: See the section in the manual on using markers. First, place a marker then
   select the tank with the right mouse button, making sure your tank has a 
   possible route to the marker. If the route is exceptionally complicated the
   tank may fail to get to its destination.

Q: YOUR MINES AND/OR CHEMICAL PLANTS DO NOT SEEM TO BE PRODUCING MUCH 
   ORE/FUEL.

A: Recruit technicians to work in them. Use the Industry Information Panel.
A: Use the Map Screen to check that they are built on squares with Ore/Fule
   deposits. If you cannot see any, then make an effort to explore more of the
   planet in order to discover deposits. 
A: Your Stores/Fuel Tanks are full. Build more.

Q: SPACESHIPS ARE RUNNING OUT OF FUEL AND CRASHING.

A: Ships are automatically refuelled whenever they land upon a launchpad,
   providing you have enough fuel stored in Fuel Tanks. Make sure you land 
   spaceships on launchpads regularly, so that they refuel.
A: For ships to refuel, a Fuel Tank must be within a few squares of the        
   launchpad. Make sure that Fuel Tanks are not built too far away.
A: Your Fuel Tanks are empty. Construct Chemical Plants or purchase fuel 
   using trade. 
A: Always try to land a ship (not necessarily on a launchpad) when not in use
   to conserve fuel. Hovering in the air uses up fuel.

Q: THE CRIME RATE IS HIGH.

A: Construct more Security HQ's and recruit Security men to work in them. 
   This will lower the crime rate but it may take a couple of months.
A: Raise the Quality of Life and Morale of your colonists. Read the 
   appropriate sections in the manual to see how this can be done.

Q: NO RESEARCH SEEMS TO BE TAKING PLACE.

A: Build more Laboratories and recruit Scientists.
A: Put more money into Research Grants, using the finance organisation panel,
   but remember to keep topping up the grants as they are depleted.
A: Research takes time. The Head of Research Adviser will hint when you are
   close to obtaining invention.

Q: YOU KEEP BEING TOLD TO BUILD MORE STORES.

A: As your colony increases there will obviously be a need for more stores
   but those you have may be used inefficiently, so if you have a large 
   surplus of an unused item, it should be traded.
A: There is a surplus of a particular item but no demand for it when you try
   to sell it, the Dump button in the trade Information Panel can be used to 
   destroy the items and free up your stores. No money for these items will be
   received, of course.

QUALITY OF LIFE

The Quality of Life is affected by many factors, too numerous to mention here.
The following list, however, will provide you with an idea of some of the
factors that will alter the Quality of Life.

CRIME: Obviously, the lower the crime rate, the higher the perceived Quality
of Life will be.

MORALE: Aim to keep your people satisfied with enough air, food, power, living
space and so on. Also hold regular sporting events to keep them entertained.

BATTLES: Winning battles or defeating an enemy attack will raise the morale of
the people. Conversely, if the enemy manages to repel an attack, or even
destroys sections of the city, the morale of the people will fall, thus 
affecting the Quality of Life.

TECH LEVEL: As scientific knowledge is increased, devices will be created to
make life easier and safer for the colonists.

COLONY SIZE: In a well organised and established colony, there will be a 
feeling of greater security.

POPULATION: The larger the population the easier and more interesting life is,
as the work load can be shared and the people can interact socially on a 
larger scale.

DEATHS: A low death rate along with controlled births leads to feelings of a 
personal well being and security. 

TAXES: Keep taxes as low as possible and the people will be grateful.

COLONY LAYOUT: Try to keep an ordered colony, and clear away any wreckage.

ENVIRONMENT: As industry expands and you embark on large construction 
projects, pollution of the environment will become a problem. Invest in the 
Civilian Research Grant which will be used to develop means of removing this
waste thereby making your industry more environmentally friendly.

INVENTIONS

As the tech levels are increased, new devices will be invented. When this 
happens an Information Panel will appear to describe the device. As a result,
the graphics in the relevant section will alter, for example buildings will
change to the new type.


BOMB DETECTOR

An invention of a totally new and sensitive scanning device has been installed
throughout the colony, especially at all launchpads and flight terminal
buildings. As a result, even the smallest trace of any known explosive will
be detected, and thus any likely terrorists or enemy saboteurs will be 
apprehended.

COMPRESSED FUEL TANKS

A new way of storing fuel safely under great pressure has been discovered,
allowing the storage of greater amounts in your fuel tanks. All future Fuel
Tanks you build employ this technique.

FUSION CRUISE SPACESHIP

A marvellous new discovery in nuclear physics has allowed your scientists and
engineers to design a new Cruiser Spaceship that uses nuclear power instead
of fuel. The main advantage of this is that such ships never require 
refuelling and are easier to construct. To build one, click on the graphic for
it in the Ship Yard Information Panel. Constructing a Fusion Cruiser still
requires ore and weapons though.

FUEL DETECTOR

A new geological sonar device has been developed with the capacity to scan
the entire surface of the planet for underground fuel deposits. Use the fuel
mode on the Map Screen to see all fuel deposits on the map.

HDX MISSILE LAUNCHER

The weapon technicians and chemists have devised a new explosive called 
HDX (High Devastation eXplosive.) which has proven to be considerably more
effective against enemy armour than normal missiles. The HDX warhead has less
mass, and so the missile has a greater range, guided by artificial 
intelligence. All future Missile Launchers that are built will use this new 
HDX missile.

HOVER TANK

Engineers have developed a new tank to supersede older tanks. From now on
only these new Hover Tanks will be constructed. They have advanced armour and
weaponry and also possess the means to hover up to 5m above the ground,
allowing them to drive easily over moss, rocky terrain, ice floes, etc.

LAND MINE

These intelligent mines can be placed all around your colony, and will only
detonate when enemy land vehicles pass over them. To drop a land mine, 
select the Land Mine graphic from the Build Information Panel and proceed
as if you were constructing any normal building. Mines cannot be moved once 
laid.

LONG DISTANCE RADAR 

The range of your radar installations has been enhanced by employing new 
greater penetration microwaves. All future Radars that are built will be of
this type and are represented by a different graphic. Use the Radar Mode in
the Map Screen to see the are of effect of these new radars. Note: the Radar
building in the Build Information Panel will now change to a Long Distance
Radar graphic.

MATTER TRANSPORTER

An incredible new discovery paves the way for future matter transportation
instantaneously between two points. At present, only liquids can be
transported. This building offers the facility to refuel your spaceships in
flight. Every month, fuel is drawn directly from the Fuel Tanks in the colony
and beamed into the tanks of your spaceships. If you possess a large number
of spaceships, it is advisable to construct several of these Transporters,
which should be in the proximity of Fuel Tanks.

METEOR SCREEN

A new scanning device has been developed which can detect meteors on their
approach to the planet from deep space. Once detected, a high-performance
pulse laser is able to destroy the meteors harmlessly whilst still 100,000
km away. Consequently meteors will now pose no threat to the colony.

ORE DETECTOR

A new geological scanner has been produced which has the capability to scan
the entire surface of the planet for underground ore deposits. The location
of all ore on the planet is now shown, and Mines can be positioned more
effectively. The ore mode on the Map Screen can be used to see all the
deposits on the map.

SPACE MOSS CONVERTOR

All the planets that are cleared for colonisation are covered by a strangely
coloured space moss. It seems impervious to atmospheric conditions, storms 
and animals, and can even live and grow in a total vacuum. A way has been
discovered to extract life-giving oxygen from the moss. By placing Space
Moss Convertor buildings on it you can produce air for your colonists to 
supplement the output from the Life Support buildings. When invented, a new
graphic for the Space Moss Convertor will appear on the Build Information
Panel. Construct one just like any other building, except that it must be
built on top of Space Moss.

PLASMA GUN

Scientists have now found a way to increase the power of your Laser Turrets,
calling this new weapon a Plasma Gun. They are built and used in exactly the
same way as Laser Turrets, but are more devastating. The Laser Turret building
in the Build Information Panel has now changed to a Plasma Gun graphic.

MORGRO HYDROPONICS

Research into new bio-technology has resulted in the discovery of more 
efficient means of growing food. Though this new biotech allows food to be
grown from basic algae building blocks, it can be shaped and flavoured to
resemble any food. All future Hydroponics that are built will use this new
Morgro design. The Hydroponics building in the build screen has now changed to
a Morgro Hydroponics graphic.

SOLAR GENERATOR

Newly mastered superconductor technology can now be used to improve your
Solar Panels. Each Solar Generator will produce twice as many MegaWatts as
a normal Solar Panel. The Solar Panel graphic on the Build Information Panel
has now changed to a Solar Generator graphic. You can no longer build normal
Solar Panels.

SPY SATELLITE

A remarkable new satellite has been launched into orbit which can monitor the
surface of the planet enabling the detection of enemy movements, even before
the radar does. This is a crucial early warning device, which overrides the 
use of radar installations. All enemy units can be shown whenever they appear 
on the map, using the Map Screen.

TANK TELEPORT

A breakthrough in high energy physics has pioneered a means of beaming matter 
from one place to another. The Supreme Commander advises the construction of
several Tank Teleports (select from the Build Information Panel) as a means
of sending tanks immediately to the area where the enemy may attack. 
To teleport a tank, drive it onto any Tank Teleport square, click on the Tank
Teleport with the left button whilst in Information mode and an Information
Panel will pop up indicating which of the eight markers have been placed on
the map. Simply select the destination marker and click on Exit and the tank
will appear immediately att that marker.

VACCINATION

An occupational hazard of establishing a colony on a remote world is that 
indigenous bacteria often attack our immune systems. Some enemy races have
also been know to unleash a deadly strain of virus on the colony, taking
their toll on the lives of colonists and their morale. Medics have developed
an adaptable proto-enzym that can seek out any new strain of virus and attack
it, altering its own DNA to usa the best means of attack. As a consequence 
your colonists now have virtually complete immunity to any future viruses.

COPYRIGHT NOTICE

Deprotected by SKID ROW.

CREDITS

Original game concept by ............ Graeme Ing
                                      Robert Crack

Programming by ...................... Graeme Ing

Addition game concept by ............ Sean Kelly              
                                      James North-Hearn

Manual by ........................... Sean Kelly

Graphics ............................ Berni

Music and FX by ..................... Imagitech Design Limited

Product testing and evaluation by ... Tony Dawson
                                      Matt Furniss
                                      Rob Bowman
                                      Anthony Casson
                                      
Produced by ......................... Gremlin Graphics Software Limited




X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
